https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17645.The_Penelopiad
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: It succeeds in its ambitious concept and style, but comes off more like a postscript to The Odyssey than its own story.
When Margaret Atwood picked up the story of Penelope and Odysseus, she kept all the familiar ideas, and yet - it is an entirely modern vision, and a modern voice speaking.
She looks beyond the famous stars of the narrative: Helen, Odysseus, Agamemnon, Menelaus, Penelope, and lets a chorus line of maids have their say.
Who speaks for those young women?Atwood does, in the slightly arrogant, bitter voice of privileged Penelope - a woman in power, but with her own share of frustrations, too clever for her own good, and in the eternal shadow of her barbie doll cousin Helen.And what about Odysseus?
Margaret Atwood gives us a reworked reinterpretation of Homer's The Odyssey that lends itself rather well to our present day in its contemporary echoes of our MeToo movement today.
Numerous suitors come to court, Penelope commands the twelve maids, slaves in reality, to be used and abused, to deal with them.
Odysseus orders the twelve maids to be murdered, feeling they have betrayed him and left a stain on his sense of honour.
This feminist focus on the little known twelve maids from Homer skirts around the periphery of the idea that these powerless women were asking for what they got and deserving of their harrowing fate.
“The two of us were now proficient and shameless liars of long standing. It’s a wonder either one of us believed a word the other said. But we did. Or so we told each other.”Brilliant. The Penelopiad is a refreshing new spin on this old myth.
In the case of The Penelopiad, I like to think that the idea for its creation came about in the mind of Margaret Atwood right after she read The Odyssey for what was probably the 10th time.
Anyway, I think something like this went on in Atwood's head (just with a lot better vocabulary, of course):"God, I hate Odysseus.
I'm going to take your story and write in from Penelope's perspective, and instead of portraying Odysseus as a hero, I'm going to turn him into the jerkiest jerk who ever jerked.
This book is the result, and I can practically hear Atwood cackling madly at her computer as she types the story.
~~لا صوت لنالا اسم لنا لا اختيار لنا لا وجه لنا وجه واحد للجميع لامونا نحن ولم يك هذا عدلا~~... **********كيف ظللت طيلة هذا الوقت دون القراءة لمارجريت أتوود؟إنه ليس العمل الأشهر وغالبا ليس الأكثر حرفية أو اتقانا لهاولكنه عمل شديد التميزوإني لأتساءل كيف ستكون أعمالها الأشهر حاصدة الجوائز؟تستعير أتوود هنا بينولوبي من ملحمة الأوديسة لصاحبها لهوميروسبينولوبي رمز الإخلاص والوفاءالزوجة التي انتظرت زوجها الغائب لمدة عشرين عامبين ويلات الحروب وتحت ضغوط لا تنتهيولكننا هنا نقرأ الحكاية على لسان بينولوبي

Turns out that she mostly indulges in recapitulating the bulk of the original with a few wild theories and speculations thrown in as supposed rumors that Penelope has gleaned in the after-life.Which brings me to how the story is constructed and this happens to be the high water mark for this novel.
It hardly changed the story.The real twist, and the only reason to take up this book is to see Atwood's exploration and reinvention of the twelve maids who were killed by Odysseus in punishment for betraying him by sleeping with the suitors.
The Greatness Syndrome: when a book is so original, thought-provoking and fantastically written that there is nothing to say about it.
This was so beautifully written. As someone who's fairly familiar with the myth of Penelope and Odysseus, it was quite fascinating to see how a modern-day writer would spin the story. Atwood did this brilliantly. I love stories that write from the perspective of the main character, especially when the said character is looking back in hindsight.Very creative.
But what has Atwood changed here that makes it work either as a reinvention of an old song, or a modern cautionary tale?I like, very much, how Atwood deals with the wandering and philandering Odysseus: she hangs very close to the truth on that one I think, even more than our dear Homer.
She abdicates her power to Odysseus, and ultimately to Telemachus, and lets the maids hang -- literally and figuratively, forever suspended in time.I'm disappointed in Atwood's version of Penelope; I think she is far stronger and more resilient in Homer's version.
Well, after another ten years of various adventures and misadventures he finally makes it home to Ithaca only to find his loyal wife, Penelope, beset by opportunistic suitors drinking his wine and eating his livestock.
Yada yada yada, he and his son kill all the suitors and the treacherous maids that gave them comfort and reunites with his steadfast and loyal wife Penelope, fade to black....Except...
Then the suitors show up and, well, it goes pretty much the same way as the Homer version goes.Except for the maids, for they also tell their story in this book.
She shows how Penelope becomes in charge of Ithaca as Odysseus is away, how she deals with the burden of Telemachus, her spoiled son, how the suitors try to gain her hand in marriage and refuse to go away and, of course, the story and relationship she has with her maids.
Despite the shortness of this book, Margaret Atwood includes gods, goddesses and creatures from the beloved Greek myths, as well as addressing the importance of the story of Penelope as a character and her maids.
Tip; If you aren't familiar with (or have forgotten) this Greek myth don't read the introduction to this novel as it contains spoilers. I love the Greek myths (I must have mean streak!) but I had forgotten some of this. I would rather of been taken by surprise.A clever idea to feminise one of the most famous of these legends, but the start had some lazy writing; Where shall I begin? There are only two choices: at the beginning or not at the beginning.  There is also that unfortunate whiff you ge
Tip; If you aren't familiar with (or have forgotten) this Greek myth don't read the introduction to this novel as it contains spoilers.
I love the Greek myths (I must have mean streak!) but I had forgotten some of this.
There is also that unfortunate whiff you get from Atwood sometimes that she thinks she is cleverer than everyone else!
But this tale does improve, it did make me think &  reread to make sure I had got all the important points.In spite of my 4★ rating I would classify this as an important Atwood - very close to an essential one.
En un principio me resultaba más que interesante una versión de "La Odisea" desde el punto de vista de Penélope, y también la promesa de qué pasó realmente con esas doce criadas y porqué acaban como acaban.
Como punto positivo, lo que más me gustó del libro fue que se minimizaran las hazañas de Ulises durante "La Odisea", como por ejemplo cuando se reduce su lucha con el cíclope a una mera pelea de bar con un tuerto.
Pero claro, esperaba otra cosa; no puedo decir que lo haya disfrutado del todo, aunque algunos momentos (más al principio) tengan su gracia e ironía.
I'm a sucker for Odysseus, as many of you know (once I finish gawain's daughter, I'm planning on writing the Telemakhiad, for example), so I appreciate that this doesn't make him a villian, a wife-beater or somesuch.There are some excellent moments -- the opening line is brilliant ('Now that I'm dead I know everything'); and the wordplay throughout is superb; the 'gilded blood pudding' simile (trust me, it's good); the relationship between the maids and Telemakhos (although she doesn't expand upon it, which is fine, because I will); and my favorite, the post-sex story-telling, from Homer, when Penelope points out that they were both "proficent and shameless liars of long standing.
The Penelopiad is another installment of the Canongate Myths Series.In this installment, Margaret Atwood turns her hand to the story of Odysseus and tells the story of The Odyssey and The Iliad from the perspective of Penelope, Odysseus' wife.If you have ever wondered what it would be like to read an Atwood version of Homer's anthem to heroism, it was fun.
He's helped by women at every turn: by Helen in The Iliad, and by all the goddesses he meets along the way in the Odyssey.
Πιο πολύ με ενόχλησε ο χαρακτήρας της Πηνελόπης.....ήταν κάπως μνησίκακη....δεν ξέρω πώς να την περιγράψω καλύτερα.....και τι κόλλημα/κόμπλεξ ήταν τέλος πάντων αυτό με την Ελένη!!
γενικά πολλές φορές με εκνεύριζε.....και με εκνεύριζε ο τρόπος που έβλεπε τα πράγματα και αυτά που σκέφτονταν γι' αυτά κοιτάζοντας το παρελθόν και όχι οι πράξεις της!Γενικά με την Atwood δεν τα πηγαίνω και τόσο καλά, αλλά θέλω να πιστεύω ότι φταίω εγώ διαλέγοντας τα όχι και τόσο καλά της βιβλία και όχι αυτή........θα συνεχίσω να ψάχνω ελπίζοντας να βρω κάτι μου να μου αρέσει!
2018: 4 βιβλία με όνομα στον τίτλο
Το να γράψει κάποιος την οδύσσεια από την πλευρά της Πηνελόπης είναι σίγουρα μια πολύ καλή και έξυπνη ιδέα. Το βρήκα καλό, ανάλαφρο και σίγουρα πολύ μικρό. Δεν ξέρω αν έκανε έρευνα η συγγραφέας για να το γράψει ή αν αρκέστηκε μόνο στην Οδύσσεια, μου φάνηκε περιληπτικό και θα το ήθελα πιο μεγάλο, είναι τόσο αραιογραμμένο και τόσο λίγο που μέχρι να μπω στο κλίμα το είχα κιόλας τελειώσει. Πάντως μου άρεσε.BRACE 2018: Ένα βιβλίο συγγραφέα που ήταν 60+ όταν το έγραψε
I read this one on the recommendation of the lovely Jean at Bookishthoughts and thoroughly enjoyed it!- So this is a modern retelling of the story of Penelope and Odysseus which can be found in Homer's account in The Odyssey.
The writing style was great and I found myself chuckling away at various moments.- The portrayal of Penelope was undoubtedly my favourite aspect of the novel - she was constantly outwitting the men (although never letting them know that fact) and she always had a plan up her sleeve.
Simply fantastic!- 5 out of 5 stars and I'm actually hoping for some recommendations for novels that are similar to this one so let me know if you have any :)
Voto: 4.5 stelle "Ora che sono morta so tutto".  Così comincia questo breve romanzo in cui Margaret Atwood riscrive magistralmente il mito del ritorno di Odisseo nella sua Itaca. A parlare, però, questa volta è una voce femminile, Penelope, che finalmente libera dal timore di una punizione divina, può raccontare la sua storia e la sua verità e affrancarsi da quell'iconografia che da millenni la ritrae solo come moglie fedele e madre devota. Penelope ci racconta tutta la sua vita: dalle origini,
Ad alternare questo bellissimo monologo, l'autrice mette in scena altre voci femminili, che incarnano il Coro delle 12 ancelle che furono per la regina di Itaca le più fedeli alleate durante gli anni bui, ma che Odisseo giustiziò senza pietà al suo ritorno in patria, accusandole di tradimento, e alla cui morte Penelope stessa non si oppose, portando per sempre con sé il rimorso nel regno degli Inferi.
Pur nella sua condizione di senzaossa, senzalabbra, senzapetto, Penelope canta la sua storia e il suo canto risuona più vivo che mai.
Remember you are half water.
تُعيد مرجريت آتوود سرد حكاية من حكايات الأساطير اليونانية القديمةحكاية بينيلوبي زوجة أوديسيوس بطل ملحمة الأوديسة لهوميروس, والتي انتظرت زوجها الغائب لمدة عشرين عامتحكي بينولوبي من عالم الموتى عن حياتها قبل وبعد الزواج وعلاقتها بأهلها وزوجها وفترة انتظاره الطويلة وبين فصول الرواية تعرض آتوود حياة خادمات القصور-اللي بيعيشوا حياة بائسة ويعانوا من معاملة السادة - لتحقيق العدالة للخادمات اللاتي قتلهن أوديسيوس بعد عودتهوجهة نظر جديدة لقصة قديمة ومشهورة, ومحاولة لمعرفة الحقيقةفالجهل بالتفاصيل أو إخفاءها غالبا ما يجعل للحقيقة أكثر من وجه فكرة جميلة وأسلوب السرد سلس وفكاهي
The one where Penelope tells her story from the Underworld. I made it about sixty pages before the whining got to me.Presumably the author feels that Penelope deserves better than to be a secondary character. But since, when put on center stage, this universal-victim Penelope never asserts herself, and is chiefly worried about whether people like her and how she's not as pretty as Helen of Troy, I'd say the Odyssey did her a better turn than Atwood did.
I was disappointed in several places by Atwood's rather shallow depictions of the characters of both Odysseus and Penelope who were both courageous and brilliant in their own ways in Homer's tale.
The reason that Odysseus is so tragically flawed with regard to the 12 maidens is "The Iliad" itself -- the brutal, barbaric, inhuman and extended decade of war against the Trojans.
Homer's catalogue of the epic brutality of this war is clearly evident throughout "The Iliad" and Odysseus cannot escape its tragic effects upon himself.
In both epic tales the hero metamorphoses into a fiend and, although he survives the war, even in victory Odysseus cannot ultimately evade its inhumanely, tragic after-effects.
Sono sempre stata tormentata dal pensiero di quelle ancelle impiccate…”Dunque quello che ci è offerto è uno sguardo doppiamente differente perché da un lato ci discosta dalla versione classica che comunemente conosciamo, dall’altra dà voce alla parte femminile di questa storia che nei secoli è stata tramandata come perfetta in quanto esempio di pazienza, astuzia e cieca fedeltà.Un’opera originale per il decentramento che mette in atto e che ci mette una pulce nell'orecchio:è giusto ascoltare solo il racconto di chi riesce ad imporsi con più vigore?
This is even true in the modern where one would think the advent of feminist would allow for redemption of Clymmenstra, who after all, sought to avenge herself on the husband who had murdered her eldest daughter.
Doesn’t say a word, just disrobes, gets husband number one back, while the other women are enslaved, killed, raped, and can’t bury their dead.Clymmenstra’s fault, besides her lack of beauty, is her rage.
What we get is a story where the home life is front and center, and the wanderer, the usual; star is kept offstage for as long as possible, which is rather easy.The Penelope that Atwood presents may or may not be a faithful wife.
It made neither of them sympathetic enough to spend a whole book with.I actually think that exploring Penelope's role in the murder of her maids is a compelling and unexpected choice to make when interrogating the text from a feminist perspective-- it's certainly not the "Penelope as stereotypical faithful wife was just a tool to keep the patriarchy afloat" angle that I expected.
However, I wish Atwood had chosen to make a clearer statement about the culpability of Penelope, rather than essentially boiling it down to "slave girls sure have it bad."Despite all my not-at-all surprising issues with the themes and ideas of the text, the true dealbreaker, the thing that I could not move past, was the writing style.
An interesting exploration of the back story behind Homer's tale.Penelope is left behind when Odysseus goes off to the Trojan war.
For ten years of war and then a further ten years of gallivanting around the Med, Penelope waits patiently at home for her man.Odysseus gets to fight Cyclops, dodge sirens and sleep with goddesses, whilst Penelope brings up their son - and a ravenous set of youths circle around the rich "widow".
She gets her maids to see to the amorous suitors whilst desperately seeking news of Odysseus.Odysseus gets home, the youths are slaughtered, and a dozen maids are strung up for good measure - for sleeping with the enemy.
Μία διαφορετική και πρωτότυπη προσέγγιση του μύθου του Οδυσσέα.
Η αφήγηση γίνεται από την Πηνελόπη η οποία βρίσκεται στον Κάτω Κόσμο και απευθύνεται στον άνθρωπο του 21ου αιώνα.
Χαρακτηριστικός είναι κ ο τρόπος γραφής μιας και χρησιμοποιείται καθημερινό λεξιλόγιο και λαικισμοί.
Επίσης, η εμφάνιση στοιχείων της τραγωδίας, όπως ο χορός, δίνει στο κείμενο ζωντάνια, παραστατικότητα, ένταση και δραματικότητα.
Αρκετά συνοπτικές οι πληροφορίες σχετικά με την καταγωγή της Πηνελόπης και επιφανειακή η παρουσίαση των γεγονότων.
Το γεγονός αυτό δε με ενόχλησε γιατί γνωρίζω καλά το περιεχόμενο της οδύσσειας, όμως θα ήθελα περισσότερες λεπτομέρειες.Στο σύνολο πάντως θα πω πως ήταν μια πρωτότυπη και ευχάριστη αναγνωστική εμπειρία.
I really struggled with this one. I had high hopes as I know a little of the subject matter which I find interesting however this is only the second of Atwood's writing that I have read and I don't think her writing style suits me as a reader. It's an OK contemporary retelling and some of it was really good but I think with this it just wasn't for me. Free arc from netgalley
Doch die Odyssee wird aus Odysseus‘ Sicht geschildert, wie war das für Penelope, 20 Jahre lang auf den Ehemann zu warten und von Freiern belagert zu werden?
Wie nahm sie die kaum noch für möglich gehaltene Rückkehr des Gatten wahr?Ich sage es euch gleich, mir hat lange kein Buch solches Vergnügen bereitet wie dieses geniale Retelling.
Das konnte mich erreichen, die Sprache ist einfach wunderbar!Ich erwähnte schon den bissigen Humor, dieser durchzieht das gesamte Buch (auch die Lyrikteile) und hat mir besonders gut gefallen.
