https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179404.Revolt_Against_the_Modern_World
Evola writes of the generative principles of spiritual regality that come from a metaphysical plane where they exist in a pure state.
Evola is in tune with the cosmic waste of the world and wrote about civilization falling through infinity toward dissolute darkness.
It is a vital force that transcends worlds, or a frequency one can embody.“There are two elements within the traditions of those civilizations or of those castes characterized by a Uranian chrism.
The first element is a materialistic and a naturalistic one; it consists of the transmission of something related to blood and race, namely, a vital force that originates in the subterranean world together with the elementary, collective, and ancestral influences.
Crazy, stupid. Kind of interesting, like a crazy (and overeducated) guy on the subway putting his rants on paper, but this dude might very well have been the worst guy around in Fascist Italy.
A truly monumental work that alters the perception of history and reality.
It defines the more spiritual nature of ancient societies and explains the significance of many words whose meanings have been distorted, like tradition, initiation, knowledge, and royalty.Even if you completely reject Evola's view (in other words, if you are purely rationalist) then this book would still be a valuable insight into the mindset similar to that of the ancient peoples like the Greeks or Persians at their high points.
It's also interesting because it covers a vast range of mythology and religion, so much so that one gets somewhat of a crash course in comparative religion, and a very exciting one, at that.
Julius Evola, though an enemy of Christianity, isn’t so stupid to think that the pagan gods actually exist.
In fact, Evola is quite clear that the “God-principle” is at best removed, if non-existent.Rather, paganism–or better, the ancient tradition–is an instantiation of the realm of the Forms.
In fact, he is quite insightful.Evola as Anti-PositivistThe danger of the “unconscious:” It’s easy to criticize materialism and positivism as blocking man’s path up to God; but the occult religion opens the path below man–which is equally deadly (xii).
Doctrine of the two natures reflects the relationship that exists between state and people.
Warning: Language.Evola dislikes Christianity because it relativised the warrior caste society, or so he thinks.
A masterwork that I will no doubt have to go back to at various points during the rest of my life.
Many people have said that if you're attempting to get into Evola, to read "Revolt Against the Modern World" first.
I believe this work should be read AFTER Evola's intellectual autobiography "The Path of Cinnabar." Evola autobiography makes it much easier to understand where he is coming from with each of his works.
"Revolt Against the Modern World" is obviously his greatest, but all of Evola's works have something to offer the individual in one way or another.
This book oscillates between those two extremes all throughout.
Though "Revolt Against the Modern World" is definitely a more striking title.The best parts of this book are when he critiques technology and modern ideologies like capitalism, communism, and nationalism.
This critiques are very powerful, often right, and get at the heart of why so many people in our day and age feel like life is completely devoid of purpose.
The other best parts of this book are the spiritual longing for a higher kind of life that is more noble, heroic, and wise.
Julius Evola is an incredibly interesting personality.
read this if you want to elevate your pain to a state of divinity and dissociate, like a child, into an unrecognizable reality, filled with spectacular arcane blood rites that evoke numen.
Your hunger for meaning is something we're all dealing with in this corporatist society that needs to quantify being.
There is no special divine providence that might care for you and not 7.5 billion others.
I for one, am going to deal with my pain with full use of my mental faculties.
That pain is the weakness that allows cult leaders & marketplace vultures to manipulate you.
Read some Nietzsche if you have to.
Sort of like the David Icke of the new/alternative right. I think the nicest thing I can say is to quote the nationalsocialists assessment of him in their recommendation to have him expelled from Germany in August 1938 that "his learnedness tends toward the dilettante and pseudoscientific".
Quite challenging in parts, and you'll get a nice little survey of your ancient comparative mythology coming out of this (well, nothing coming out of those children of Lemuria, but anyway).
It would seem to me that Evola was one of those idealists who took what Stirner was saying about the self being a "creative nothing" entirely seriously.
Indeed, Evola was a dadaist and Nietzschean before he was, you know, a hyperborean, but anyway.
You get about 350 or so pages of historical exegesis and scholarship on the ancient Egyptians, Greeks, Romans, Brahmanism/Hinduism, Crhistianity....
By presenting his ideal type of "traditional society" (inspired by the empires like Egypt, Babylon and Rome), Evola reveals (by exageration) the core of traditionalist conservatism (the Westboro Baptist/ Ted Cruz types).
What I mean is that he articulates how bad politics like social organicism and iusnaturalism are connected with racism, slavery, mysoginy and authoritarianism.
For now on I will always remember Evola's utopia when I hear the usual conservative arguments.The second volume is just a bunch of terribly wrong and boring history by which he tries to prove that every civilization fits the "four eras" model.
Evola holds that in premodern times, all great civilizations conceived of their social orders as spiritual communities that were oriented towards this ultimate transcendence.
Evola suggests that nowhere has "slavery" been a more pervasive or a more pitiable status than in the modern age, where the lower strata are regulated to the role of mere automata in a great machine of production that is not grounded in any transcendent order.
Yet he closes the book with the suggestion that those "aristocrats of the spirit" who can whether the civilizational collapse of modernity will reap ever-greater spiritual rewards in the world to come.
In offering a questionable interpretation of religious belief and traditional authority throughout history, Evola thoroughly condemns “civilization” for abandoning the transcendent element of being and immersing itself in the things and materialistic ideals of “the world.” In this he echoes many others who, beginning in the 19th century, have deplored the emptiness of modern life that directly resulted from the great error of turning away from God and making man the measure of all things.While at times he sounds like a cranky 19th Catholic monarchist, what is most strange is the way in which he places great confidence in what are clearly mythic “memories” of the distant past.
My reading of Evola suffered from the same symptom as Marx and his religious followers through the ages: the end game is terrible.
What kind of person would set out in this brief life to condemn every last element of modernity as nothingness whence compared to the Bronze Age?
As Goethe remarked that, "I knew from a young age that no one can ever completely understand another person," I knew from a young age that that attempting to celebrate a time one never lived in is just a waste of time.
Nonetheless, I cared not re: Evola's "controversial" personal life before reading the book, and care equally little having read most of this his magnum opus.
Campbell's work is the mainstream, easy-to-digest, Hollywoodized Jungian version of everything Evola touts.Nietzsche's classicist The Birth of Tragedy is like a prose poem dedicated to the ideas of Evola (though, rather, Evola was influenced by Nietzsche).Evola represents the furthest limit of a certain type of mindset, and we can see many reflections of that type of mindset in contemporary society, especially with the whole fundamentalist terrorism going on.
Its my belief though, that such a principle would be so epistemologically different from its occurrence on Earth (as shown so many times in the stories of Borges), that it would never manifest itself in the form of society that Evola wants.
The "traditional method" espoused by Evola seems to consist of taking ragments of myth that fit some intuitive hypothesis, rejecting those that don't, and keeping terms sufficiently vague that any rebuttal is bound to get tangled up in an ontological morass.With that out of the way, the book consists of two parts.
In the first Evola explains certain aspects of the world of "Tradition", in the second he offers a "historical" analysis of the decline of the current civilisations from their roots in Hyperborea to the terrible state they find themselves in today.The main problem with the first part is the lack of structure or purpose.
Putting this one on indefinite hold. While the breadth of focus is nice, and it serves as a decent comparative study, I just can't get behind Evola's whole POV and felt I pretty much understood where he was going with it. Not really my cup of tea.
i found this in the 'new age' section of a half priced books. hail the unconquered sun!
Maybe i would have rated it 5/5 if it was my first read on traditionalism, but I still prefer Rene Guenon's "the reign of quantity" over this Revolt which on its turn bold and honest.Chapters of " man and woman" and "greater and lesser wars" in the first part are the most two genuine ideas to me in the whole book.
Overall id say the the book is a good critic on modern culture, and offers an incite into how the traditional world worked and what lead to its downfall, and some third positionist criticism of Capitalism and communism.
A plea for reformation; a bitter hark to times of ye’ ol’ antiquity when an infected cut and defecation before dinner guaranteed death. Evocative imagery of bloodstained zealots huddled around a moonlit bonfire.
Evola is a great thinker, but I found this book to be written in a tedious manner. I much prefer his other works, such as Pagan Imperialism and Men Among Ruins.
Absolutne veldielo, toto bz malo vijst v slovencine
Incredible book. Every American should read it and weep.
While the worldview presented here is built on a fantasy of a never existent "golden age era" of human history, it has some undeniable scientific - philologic - values which are especially clear while he is discussing the antique roman age and some important conceptions like 'fides'.
Evola had a great knowledge of this matter and he uses his knowledge to strengthen his own agenda.
In our age of identitarian civil wars this mixing of fantasy, science and political agenda turned out as one of the most destructive weapon ever created against human civilization by human civilization itself, only compared to the theses of Karl Marx.
Nous aurions des réserves à faire sur quelques points : ainsi, quand il s’agit de la source originelle unique des deux pouvoirs sacerdotal et royal, l’auteur a une tendance très marquée à mettre l’accent sur l’aspect royal au détriment de l’aspect sacerdotal ; quand il distingue deux types de tradition qu’il rapporte respectivement au Nord et au Sud, le second de ces deux termes nous apparaît comme quelque peu impropre, même s’il ne l’entend pas en un sens strictement « géographique », car il semble se référer surtout à l’Atlantide, qui, de toutes façons, correspond à l’Ouest et non au Sud. Nous craignons aussi qu’il ne voie dans le Bouddhisme primitif autre chose que ce que celui-ci fut réellement car il en fait un éloge qui, au point de vue traditionnel, ne se comprend guère ; par contre, il déprécie le Pythagorisme d’une façon assez peu justifiée ; et nous pourrions relever encore d’autres choses du même genre.
A great book for anyone wanting to learn about traditionalism, history or symbolism.
Evola è un autore che va letto, perché è stato in passato e rimane tuttora un'influenza centrale (dichiarata, e, molto più spesso, non dichiarata) su di un vasto numero di opinionisti, politicanti e influencer estremisti, di qualsiasi colore.(Ad esempio, gli autori della New Left tipo Marcuse non ne sono che la versione speculare e di sinistra.)Non stupisce che l'estremismo da egli ispirato sia anche strettamente legato (e questo già dal periodo nazifascista) a complottismi d'ogni risma, visto che i suoi scritti sono un ammasso di tutti i tratti che sappiamo essere correlati col complottismo radicale: bias cognitivi, rifiuto dell'ordine sociale esistente, autoritarismo, sensazione di impotenza, bassa autostima, bassa fiducia, cattivo carattere, alti livelli di cinismo politico.Un altro punto importante da notare è che Evola non solo mitizza il passato, ma lo intinge in un personale esoterismo, e va dunque persino oltre la rosy retrospection, finendo per parlare di una realtà alternativa di fantasia.
Αξίζει να διαβαστεί,όχι όμως από τον καθένα, για τις φοβερές ιστορικές πηγές του, αν και καμιά φορά γίνεται κουραστικό.
Το οξύμωρο είναι πως ο ίδιος ο Έβολα φαίνεται πως δεν έχει την παραμικρή προσωπική μεταφυσική,ως προς το Θείο,αρα τελικά τι νόημα εχει η κοινωνική οργάνωση που φαίνεται να υπερασπίζεται;Με τα συμπεράσματα του Έβολα,δεν συμφωνώ,εκτός αν μου διαφεύγει κάτι ,που δεν καταννοώ όπως πρέπει.
Αυτά τα τελευταία,σκόπιμα αγνοούν τις μεγαλύτερες στιγμες της ανθρωπότητας, την αρχαία Ελλάδα που βασίστηκε στο αίμα με ένα τρόπο λαικά σοβινιστικό(από Αριστοτέλη εως και τον κοσμοκράτορα Αλέξανδρο) και την χιλιόχρονη Βυζαντινή Αυτοκρατορία με την ιδιόμορφη λαοκρατική Βασιλεία.
Picked this up on recommendation from a (ahem) very esoteric source. Not sure what I was expecting but I'm enjoying it. Lucid reading. My favorite kind of book - perspective altering. Be prepared to let go of assumptions and prejudices. In a world as mad as the one we currently find ourselves in, it isn't hard to find solace in Evola's speculations. Some of this is along the lines of 'The Golden Bough'.
It was a very different book from what I expected. I guess I wanted some manual on how to deal with modern issues but instead was introduced to the waste world of tradition around the world. Some parts were not so interesting (for me), especially when dealing with mythologies I wasn't so familiar with but altogether it broadened my understanding of certain aspects of today's world. I am surely going to read more book by Evola in future.
