https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32969150-stay-with-me
Miracles are right up there with ghosts—I don’t like them to sully my beloved story.
It’s magic the way the author made me care about what happened to Yejide and Akin.
I’ve never ever thought of a cover and the story being matchy matchy, but that’s what I think of here.
I read this book on a Kindle, but I absolutely have to buy the book so that I can stare at the gorgeous cover (knowing that within lies matching beauty), and swoon to my heart’s content.The sign of a good story is that it takes you away to another world and you want to stay there.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.Yejide and her husband Akin have been in love since they met at university.
Yejide knows it's imperative that she get pregnant or she'll have to share her husband with a woman she despises, but the drastic measures and radical risks she's willing to take in order to conceive may prove too high a cost.
I wanted him to reach across the table, hold my hand and tell me we would be all right.
Set in Nigeria between the mid 1980s and 2008, Stay With Me is about the tortuous relationship between Yejide and Akin, and their heartbreaking road to parenthood.
I don't want to say too much about the story because it's best to experience its emotional punch as it unfolds but here are some of the things I loved about Stay With Me:-I loved the portrayal of Yejide.
Yejide and Akin are university educated and relatively well to do.
-Although Stay With Me is relatively short, a lot happens in this story and much of it is unexpected.
You'd think having a baby was the most important thing in the frickin world!
I'm aware of the window I was are looking into: a different culture with expectations & obligations in this page turning well written- gut wrenching story...but I laughed and laughed: many times.
I was crackin up!!.....having a wild fun time!!!!Shame on me for laughing?
I don't know - I LIKED THIS BOOK - I ENJOYED BREATHING some humor into the bleakness.
I'd like to believe it might have been the author's intention for me to laugh, too.
Such a wonderful sense of humor she has - it shows up in her writing.
We first meet Yejide at a time when she hasn't seen her husband in 14 years and is now preparing to return for his father's funeral, then the story shifts back to the past where the couple is desperately trying to have a child.
This addition of a second wife is the starting point of a grueling few years and of a spiral of hurt and viciousness and painful mistakes.What impressed me the most about this debut novel is the way Ayobami Adebayo created characters who are unpleasant and flawed and intensely aggrevating but still managed to make me feel and root for them.
Desperate to have a child, hopefully a son, a young Nigerian couple struggle to meet the expectations of family and society.
A society where a mechanic or a doctor would prefer to speak to the husband rather than the wife, where family members have a good deal of influence in this couple's relationship.
The struggle is compounded by the lengths to which Akin and Yejide go to and the desperation is reflected in some things that they do that made me not like either of them very much.There were some twists that I wasn't expecting - maybe too many.
Stay with me."This is a breathtaking and tragic book about marriage, family, and the lengths one will go to bring a child into this world.
It’s a gripping narrative that kept my attention from start to finish, and although it may sound like a cliché, Stay with Me is an impressive debut novel!Yejide and Akin are a young Nigerian couple with hopes and dreams not unlike many other newlyweds.
However, Yejide and Akin are university-educated and have more of a contemporary view of the marriage bond, one to be shared between just two people.
There was a line in the book that summed it up perfectly....."The mess of life and love that only shows up as you go along".Yejide and Akin are a married couple who must have a child.
The story is told back and forth in time, going between Yejide and Akin.
When the story starts, you meet Yejide, who has not seen her husband in some time and is returning for her father inlaws funeral.
She did an amazing job flipping between the voices of Yejide and Akin and all the other characters in this story.
Nigeria n the eighties and ninties, a young couple, Yejede and Akin meet at University, fall in love and marry.
For Akin having a son meant he was a man, for Yejede, having a child meant fulfilling the role she was expected to fulfil.
In Nigeria, it was also expected for a man to take more than one wife, especially if the wife was unable to provide a child, but Akin had promised Yejede he would never do this.
A grief that is so pervasive even small seeds of hope cannot penetrate.
The book contained many small surprises, and does end with a measure of hope and happiness.
There are things even love can’t do. Before I got married, I believed love could do anything. ... If the burden is too much and stays too long, even love bends, cracks, comes close to breaking and sometimes does break. But even when it’s in a thousand pieces around your feet, that doesn’t mean it’s no longer love. (Akin) After four years of marriage, Yejide and Akin still haven’t had a child. Akin’s family pressures him to take on a second wife who can provide him with descendants. Polygamy was
After four years of marriage, Yejide and Akin still haven’t had a child.
The chapters alternate between Akin and Yejide as they reveal the story of their relationship, from love at first sight to the challenges that followed.
Yejide's mother is described as a woman without lineage, which makes them question Yejide's humanity: "when there was no identifiable lineage for a child, that child could be descended from anything—even dogs, witches or strange tribes with bad blood." When she falls in love with Akin, she finally has a person that is hers and an opportunity to create a family for herself.
4.5Heartbreaking story of a young and educated married couple in Nigeria who want a family very badly but things are just not moving along for them.This story follows them from the mid 1980’s to 2008 with the husband and wife both narrating their parts of the journey.What a journey!!! What a cast of characters! INTENSE!
Just as nobody can cover the sun's rays with his hands, you can never cover the truth."Believe me, this book will stay with you like a stampede of wild horses in your mind days after you've read the final pages.
Yes, days......The budding marriage of Yejide and Akin is like a safe dwelling place against the world at large.
Nigeria serves up a tray of constant threatening political coups, family and cultural demands, and the lingering emotions of not being "complete."After four years of this wedded union, Yejide has not conceived a child.
This book sings with the voices, colours, joys and fears of Nigerian society and its culture. A devastating story of the fragility of married love, the undoing of family, the wretchedness of grief, and all consuming bonds of motherhood. A book that tells us the desperate attempts we seek to save ourselves and those we love from heartbreak.It's not a perfect novel but it's one I'm not hesitating to recommend.
Akin's mother Moomi, reminded him that as first son, he had the responsibility to leave a child behind upon his death.
She was willing to travel to the Mountain of Jaw-Dropping Miracles, participate in fasting and rituals while Prophet Josiah and the faithful chanted and promised a successful pregnancy.Moomi, Akin's mother decided that since Yejide could not have children, a second wife would be chosen for Akin.
I had to park by a bush....." on the way home.Yejide, having no mother, no siblings, felt that Akin would leave her and she would be all alone in the world despite Akin's assurances of love.
This is a complex and heartbreaking novel.Yejide and Akin have been married for four years but have been unable to have children.
Akin's family is pressuring him to have a son (or daughter but preferably a son, two or three sons would be ideal) and it has come to the point that he has taken a second wife in order to conceive.
I don't want to say more than what is described in the book cover, but know that there is much more than the simple description I just gave.The novel is very complex and takes place in Nigeria.
The story is told from the alternating points of view of Yejide and Akin.
Despite addressing the intimate themes of family, sex, marriage, love, and conception, this book felt light, without the depth necessary to make it truly affecting.
Yejide and Akin have their own intertwining chapters to tell the story of their marriage, but while I felt each subsequent moment spent with her deepened my idea of her character and motivation, even some rather shocking revelations during his chapters did not seem to break the surface of his personality.
Though I felt some pity for the losses they both suffered, it was momentary, and by the final denouement, I had little or no connection to what I assume was supposed to be an emotional punch.
Perhaps it is just me, although I don’t think so, but I never guessed exactly what was coming and each time I felt the book was heading in a certain direction it took me by surprise, again and again.
This sense of curiosity and sometimes anxiety kept their lives real for me in the way that you can never truly predict the path your own life will follow.I could not have felt as invested in this story, however, if it had not been for the characters themselves.
Yejidi, in particular, felt so real to me and although I have never and will never experience many of the things she did I could empathize with the struggles she faced.
-------Stay With Me told the story of the marriage between Yejide and Akin, a young couple in Ilesa, Nigeria during the 1980s.
The book was an exploration of love and how it could be influenced by in-laws, by culture, by pride and by shame, by trust, mistrust and by above all, absolute grief.
But then, and this is what I love the most in books, things started to get complicated.
As this is Ayobami Adebayo's first full length novel she has undoubtedly been compared to her fellow Nigerian author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie in the media.
I utterly loved this book.
NO SPOILERSHe removed his jacket, folded it and laid it on the bed.Then the fires of hell overflowed their banks and spilled into our bedroom. 181Hold up, wait a minute. What the FUCK was this book. It was one of the most fucked-up books. It started out fucked-up and then just progressively got more and more and more fucked-up as it went along. When you thought things couldn't POSSIBLY get any more fucked-up, then Adébáyọ just slams you with more.So dark. So twisted.So FUCKING GOOD. OMG. This bo
Adébáyọ̀ just writes the shit out of this book.
And it's not so dark that you are going to feel like shit when you come to the last page.
Not only is Adébáyọ̀ a great author in the terms of "her sentences and her paragraphs are amazing and transportive" and "she puts words together in a wonderful and emotional way" but her plotting here is actually technically stunning.
Hugely worth reading.Good for getting a glimpse of Nigerian culture.
If you like amazing writing, dark and twisted plots, and tear-your-heart-out endings - this is it!"You can never cover the truth.
Lord have mercy. I will be unpacking this one forever (just the way I like it, mwahaha). I'm also terrified because it was the first book I picked for my book club and I feel like every month's pick has to live up to the exorbitantly high bar this has set! What a gem. Will include link to video review once wrap-up goes up on Youtube.
Happy as their life is, Yejide's inability to conceive places a heavy strain on their marriage.
Under pressure from his family, especially his overbearing mother, Akin takes a second wife who is expected to finally bear him with offspring.
Her father was cold and distant: "I never got over the way he looked at me when he talked about her death, as if he was evaluating me, trying to decide if I was worth what he had lost." In Akin, she finally found somebody who "loved her from the very first moment." However, the pain and suffering they both go through takes huge toll on their relationship.
What starts as a slow-building novel about Nigerian culture and a marriage desperate for a child- ends with so many twists I can't even keep them all straight.Akin & Yejide marry and instantly get pressure from Akin's family to bear an heir.
Yejide struggles to come to terms with polygamy, and even hikes a mountain holding a goat to try to induce fertility for the sake of their family.
At times the writing was clunky and dense, while others were concise and moved along.
I think I just may need more time to think on this one...Thank you to Netgalley & Knopf Doubleday Publishing for an advanced copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
This story takes place over 23 years in Nigeria, where Yejide and Akin have been married for several years without Yejide having produced a child.
Yejide's and Akin's families blame Yejide and are all in favor of Akin taking a second wife, but Yejide and Akin love each other and want no part of polygamy.
Eventually, they are forced to capitulate and Akin reluctantly takes Funmi as his second wife.
Yejide begins to unravel under the pressure and Akin makes a desperate and selfish move to save Yejide and himself, with terrible consequences that reverberate into the future.What a story!
When you live in a country where children are valued above all things and your lineage is connected only by your children and you are barren what do you do?
In this country, his mother, demands he takes a second wife if Yejide cannot produce.
Left with no alternative Akin takes a second wife and Yejide starts a journey of unthinkable black magic as the last straw to keep her husband.
Akin's secert and what he does to assist Yejide in producting a child not only for her - but for him to love is beyond the pale.
That's the case for the protagonists in this story - Akin Ajayi and his wife Yejide - a Yoruba couple in Nigeria.Akin and Yejide are well-educated, middle-class residents of Ilesa, a city in the southwest part of the country.
Through all this, Funmi - who's been installed in her own apartment - is trying to insinuate herself into the Ajayi home, so she can assume the role of a 'true wife.' This, of course, just exacerbates Yejide's frustration and anger.For his part, Akin wants Yejide to be happy, and would do almost anything to ensure her fulfillment.
Not to be flip, but this is a lot of heartache caused by one (view spoiler)[limp dick (hide spoiler)]. I’d feel more compassion towards Akin and his plight if his lies weren’t so brazen and harmful.
” When I saw the break of dayI wished that I could fly awayInstead of kneeling in the sandCatching teardrops in my hand"My heart is drenched in wineBut you'll be on my mindForever” -- Don’t Know Why, Norah Jones, Songwriters: Jesse Harris”The things that matter are inside me, locked up below my breast as though in a grave, a place of permanence, my coffin-like treasure chest.”Before they married, Akin and Yejide thought love could accomplish anything. That they could conquer everything life woul
” When I saw the break of dayI wished that I could fly awayInstead of kneeling in the sandCatching teardrops in my hand"My heart is drenched in wineBut you'll be on my mindForever”	-- Don’t Know Why, Norah Jones, Songwriters: Jesse Harris”The things that matter are inside me, locked up below my breast as though in a grave, a place of permanence, my coffin-like treasure chest.”Before they married, Akin and Yejide thought love could accomplish anything.
If there is one thing I loved most about this book, these people, it was the author’s ability to bring to Yijide’s story a complexity of emotions, reactions, actions, that all seemed so very real, so honest.
As a woman whose identity has been shaped by the absence of a mother for much of my life, I'm drawn to unconventional stories about motherhood, and this description definitely fit the bill.
This story opens when the protagonist, Yejide, has not seen her husband Akin in more than a decade.
The story than rewinds to the 1980s and the earliest days of their marriage.
I don't think this book is really about the idea that a childless couple may never truly be happy, as I've seen suggested by a few other reviewers.
They were all gracious enough to omit spoilers in their discussion so as to spare the unfortunate lot that was those like me that had not read it and did quite a good job, because nothing prepared me for the ride that was this book.Told in the voices of Akin and Yejide, this is a story of a tumultuous marriage and the pains and joys that accompany parenthood.
Ayobami has molded such living and complex characters in Akin, the husband and Yejide, the wife to make such a gripping and moving book.
RTC. If I can write it.
