https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116687.Missing_Joseph
She’s very good at capturing the local dialect and geographic description, but, my goodness, I suspect she must have a peculiar love life because the characters of the two novels I’ve read have such bizarre, intertwined lives.
Her main character is Inspector Thomas Lynley, a certifiable Earl, who is in love with Lady Helen, who at one time had an affair with Lynley’s best friend and colleague, forensic pathologist Simon St. James, who is married to Deborah, who had an earlier affair with Lynley and lost his baby.

I've read that the later books (there are 16 to date) are stronger than the early ones, but so far, with an uptick here and there along the way (I did love Well-Schooled in Murder) these novels seem to be getting weaker, not stronger.The book opens with Deborah St. James angsting over her inability to have a child.
I will be reading the next book in the series however, and dearly hope there'll be a lot less of the St Jameses, and a lot more of Havers.
My absolute least favorite of this series, so far--almost enough to put me off the series, but I'll read the next one and see if George returns to form.
It's as though the author had a great idea for the outline of the plot and then couldn't think of how to get from the beginning to the end except through moderately graphic sex scenes involving almost every secondary character in the book.
And Deborah's attitudes toward possible adoption of a child become redundant.
In addition, the way Lynley figured out the central mystery seems a bit unrealistic and pat.
*re-read*Ein wirklich gut durchdachter Krimi, nur zwischendurch gabs ein paar kleine Längen :)
Meh, def. not my favorite Inspector Lynley book. I thought it was boring and that it dragged on to where I wanted to gouge my eyes out! Luckily, that is rare with this series!!
Months later, Inspector Lyndley's attention is drawn to the case and he finds reasons to suspect murder.George is a good writer, and for the most part this book is no exception.
However, she described so much sex--consensual and non, and both teenage and adult--that bore no relevance to the plot, that it became ridiculous.
Furthermore, the plot hinged on one huge coincidence.
The story itself was still interesting, the development of personal relationships between recurring characters was good, and the ending was poignant.
The real problem is that the tale could have been told succinctly in about half the pages, and been a much better book.
Pesantemente prolisso dove proprio non ce n'era bisogno. Esageratamente straziante e lacrimevole nei restanti punti.
Read for the second time either late last year or earlier this year.A great novel, beautifully written with real characters that Elizabeth George develops throughout the Inspector Lynley series.
Missing Joseph is book 6 in Elizabeth George’s Inspector Lynley series. The book begins with a chance meeting with a vicar, who ends up “accidentally” poisoned. The mystery here is well plotted and has quite a few twists and turns before the final reveal. The side plots are equally important as the main mystery here with emotional upheaval in Lynley’s personal life and in St. James’ marriage. The characters in this series are really well drawn and fully fleshed out and they are what really keep me coming back for more. Great book in an excellent series.
A masterpiece. After grinding my way through so many of the latest “psychological” mysteries, it’s so satisfying to be back in the thrall of a truly skilled writer. This one is #6 of her work, and I have to pace myself so I don’t burn through them and have none left. If you haven’t read Elizabeth George, please read them in order - the personal relationships between Lynley, St.James, Deborah, Helen, and the redoubtable Barbara Havers is more than half the joy.
Brendan the solicitor has got his boss' daughter pregnant so there is no alternative to marrying her in spite of the fact that he really can't stand her and her father is a bully.
Oh, and Brendan, shot gun married to the boss' daughter, remember, is in love with the vicar's housekeeper.
All these people with their desperately wanted or unwanted babies have to untangle the reason behind the poisoning of the vicar.
Nick and his family are among the few totally sane people, since even the innkeeper's daughter is convinced she is the result of a passionate affair her mother had.
Inspector Lynley, book 6This is one captivating and intricate mystery, with it, Ms George has given us a brilliantly plotted story that reaches emotional levels deeper than most can offer.
We find strong character development involving the relationships between Simon and Deborah St James, Thomas and Lady Helen Clyde, Barbara Havers and her mother.
When they find he has fallen victim of a suspected accidental poisoning, Simon calls in his old friend Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley to help them in solving the mystery...One may think the story simplistic at first but with time we are drawn into a hypnotic and unforgettable experience.
It is heartbreaking for her to have had an abortion when she was Lynley's lover and then when she has the love of her life in Simon, not to be able to give him a child due to complications due to that abortion.
The murder mystery centers around a mother and child, and the husband or "Joseph" is you will who threatens to separate the mother from "her" child.
Havers has put her mom in a home and is strugglling with moving on with her life.
Lynley in typical problem solving mode--arrogance--arranges to have Havers home painted so spur her into moving on mode.
The series continues with the agonizing difficulty Deborah St James is having trying to carry a child to term after two years of marriage.
As they listen to the local gossip in the pub, they also learn that the vicar had been counseling Juliet’s thirteen year old daughter Maggie.
Their long planned trip to Greece is interrupted by this spat and Lynley, anxious to avoid more confrontation, quickly hurries off to Lancashire when his friend Simon Allcourt St James calls him about what he believes to be a sloppy investigation into a case that may in fact be murder.
I have yet to be disappointed in a George novel. My only complaint with this one is the minimal appearance of Havers whose raw humanity always touches me more than does Lynley.
Deborah and Simon St James go on a short winter holiday to try to salvage their battered marriage.
Deborah has had six miscarriages and has been told to not even try to get pregnant for a year in order for her body to heal.
She desperately wants to have a child, HER child as she thinks of it.
Havers is trying to get her mother's house ready to sell while Lynley was supposed to go to Corfu with Helen, but they had a falling in.
He loves her and wants to marry her.
She loves him but is unsure of what she wants.
Enjoy the DI Linley series. A lot of detail given and you feel you are solving the crime at the same time. Recommend.
One heck of a mysteryYou will never guess But you have to read it all even the sordid parts. Makes you want to cry for them all
Review to come soon.
Colin Shepard refuses to talk to Lynley because it was Colin’s girlfriend, Juliet Spence, who accidentally poisoned the dead man.But that isn’t all.
Who knew Ben Wragg’s little Winslough country inn with a convenient in-house pub and restaurant could be such a good place for a couple of investigators to pick up clues?Lawyer Brendan Power can’t talk to Polly Yarkin about his loveless marriage to Rebecca Townley-Young because Polly dislikes him intensely.
The Vicar’s housekeeper Polly Yarkin can’t talk about how much she loves Town Constable Colin Shepard because he refuses her attentions since he only has eyes for Juliet, causing Polly to resort to witchcraft with an unintended dark soul.
Questa volta però qualcosa non ha funzionato.La storia si svolge nella In un villaggio del Lancashire, dove il parroco Robin Sage viene avvelenato dopo aver cenato a casa di una donna poco incline alla religione ma esperta nell’uso di erbe, radici e pozioni.
Intorno a loro, oltre ai noti Linley, Barbara, Deborah e St John, una serie di personaggi cupi come il paese che li circonda.Ammetto di aver faticato a finirlo.
Alcune parti sono troppo lunghe e non necessarie ai fini della storia e delle indagini, dopo 150 pagine la narrazione è ancora incentrata sulla caratterizzazione dei personaggi, a volte troppo contorta per poter essere apprezzata.
Ms. George sets the stage for the story at an art museum where Deborah and Vicar Sage, both bereaved, speak briefly during a chance encounter while observing Leonardo da Vinci’s cartoon of the Madonna and child.
The plot of Missing Joseph weaves along paths triangulated by character interactions that subtly reveal the potential danger of cultural conditioning to our perception, particularly of ourselves.
The idea that romantic love is a risky fool’s game is skillfully suggested by Maiden, Mother, Crone mythology as events inspire the characters to question themselves, and their beliefs.
Good, reliably satisfying mystery.
This time Lynley and Simon St. james solve the perplexing case of the death by poisoning of a Church of England priest while simultaneously dealing with their angst-ridden love lives.
Sergeant Havers makes a brief appearance but does not figure hugely in this one.As always, there is a great deal of verbiage devoted to the lives, problems and backgrounds of what are sometimes minor characters only peripherally connected to the main plot line.
The allege plot of the mystery itself was OK but the book as a whole was the worst I've red of this series.
The Kindle version I read was 566 pages in length but if one was to remove the sex it be maybe 300.The only character that I'm really enjoying thus far is Barbara Havers which I say George does a find job of developing but she maybe has 25 pages in "Missing Joseph" Debra and Simon St. James see to be stuck in a marriage crises as they seem to be discovering each others emotional wiring despite they've know each other since childhood and lived in the same household.
Murder mystery this may be, but it's also a soap opera from beginning to end.
This one takes place up north in chilly Lancashire, where once again Lynley's friends the St. James's have stumbled across a murder while on holiday at a village boarding house.
These books are very cynical about love, marriage and parenthood.We have more baby drama from the St. James's, while Lynley is still sparring with Lady Helen I-won't-be-another-of-your-conquests Clyde.
I'll have to remember to take this into account when reading the rest of these books.At least the author has eased up a little on her unflattering descriptions of middle-aged women: she's very nearly complimentary about the murder suspect's unglamorous lifestyle.
I began reading Elizabeth George's Detective Lynley series when first published--was really reeled in by the second volume (which I understand was the first book written originally)which revealed the main characters' intertwined history.
But a few years ago, I got away from the the books --believe I was turned off by the PBS series actors chosen to play Lynley and Helen.
Will Helen and Lynley ever marry?
I am not quite sure what keeps Lynley coming back for more abuse from Helen, but I guess I will keep coming back to try to figure it out.
Het fijne van een serie is dat de hoofdpersonen na een paar boeken vertrouwd worden en je ongeveer weet wat je kunt verwachten.
Het is niet een heel spannend boek.
Het is niet zo dat je op het puntje van je stoel zit of niet kunt stoppen met lezen.
Toch is het een interessant verhaal en wordt het mysterie langzaam ontrafeld.
Het verhaal wordt vanuit verschillende personages verteld.
Ook zijn er nog een aantal extra verhaallijnen, waardoor het boek niet alleen draait om het mysterie, al hebben ze zijdelings wel met het verhaal te maken.
Leuk om gelezen te hebben.
Simon St. James and his wife Deborah are the catalysts for this latest investigation.
Deborah hopes to visit an Anglican priest she met in London, but when they arrive in his village, they discover he has died under mysterious circumstances.
St. James asks Lynley to investigate and although he and Helen Clyde are supposed to be vacationing in Greece, they've had a disagreement.
I really enjoy the way the personal conflicts of the couples play out against the investigations in George's books.
The "rationale" for the crime mirror the inner conflicts the couples experience.

