https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6472246-chelsea-chelsea-bang-bang
Only got half way through before I quit because felt like I was at a high school reunion with Chelsea and she couldn't shut up about her twenty years her senior boyfriend, who by the way OWNS the company that produces her show -it's on E!
Man, I miss the old non famous "i wore a huge Halloween costume to hide my binge drinking problem and then got it stuck in a window only to be discovered by the man I was trying to avoid" Chelsea.
The "not yet famous and totally not caring about name dropping" Chelsea was awesome!
An ENTIRE chapter, about EIGHT year old Chelsea and friends masturbating at slumber parties.
And yet, the rest of the book is pretty much all bizarrely true stories, so make what you want of the first chapter.
3. How rude and derogatory she is to her friends, including the aforementioned older BF who owns E!
She tells this lengthy - LENGTHY - tale of how she tricked him into thinking they killed a dog, and staging the dog's funeral.
Apparently, she even went on one of the late night talk show's to discuss this trick in detail.
BUT UNLIKE YOUR BRAIN-DEAD L.A. TV AUDIENCE, THERE IS NO FUCKING 'APPLAUSE' LIGHT THAT GOES ON WITH A BOOK, CHELSEA LATELY, AND WE DON'T SALIVATE AND APPLAUDE ON CUE.Readers will appreciate the prank in which someone tells someone else that a dog died...but...wait for it...it was really still alive!
But look at the bright side: You get to spend your 50s telling us about all of the amazing new adventures you are currently undergoing as your body rapidly slides into old age, how you wasted opportunities to write good books and eventually fell into obscurity, and how your years of alcohol and drug abuse took their toll.
CC memo from Ms. Handlers desk: "Hey everyone I'm famous." "I'm so famous I don't even have to apply myself to actually admit my stories make my already outlandish diatribes sound believable or even funny." Thank you, for constantly reminding us how obviously much more "down-to-earth" you try to pretend to be (At the time you had)with that fancy-new-state-the-of-art-CEO-Boyfriend with accessories.
I never grew-up with one half of my family, but they still find the time to avoid me, because they don't understand the person I am.
They at least make the occasional holiday effort to try (I enjoy gumption) and talk to me.
That being said: this book has none of the wit or charm that makes me tune into her show This is a slapped together piece of shit where she simply tells stories about her vacations and her family without grace or humor.
This one strikes me as someone who had a three-book deal and couldn't really be bothered to sit down for a year to write a decent book.It actually pains me that this was published, as I think any of my friends could write stories of vacations and families with more heart, charm and humor - and they'd never get published, let alone become a NYTimes best-seller.
Seriously, I thought that I would wake up the neighbourhood at three in the morning while I was still reading this book last night because I could not put it down.It’s a series of essays/stories that, to be honest, I have no idea if they’re complete lies, slightly untold truths, or blatant elaborations but I also don’t care.
Sure, I could have easily stopped at the end of a chapter since they don’t really relate to each other, but I didn’t want to, pure and simple.I don’t know what else I can really say about this book since it’s not really fiction that follows a set plot line, but if you can you should really read it.
Read the first few pages...The second page is her at 8 years old learning to masturbate at a slumber party...alrighty then!>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>2 weeks, and a few pages later:The more I read, the more I realize I don't like her. Small doses are better. Offically demoted to bathroom reading...
Chelsea is everything a writer should be. Brutally honest, ridiculous, obscene, shameless, twisted potty-mouthed alcoholic who calls out everyone in her family for being an asshole, and doesn't give a damn what you think. This book is highly entertaining and her comedy is always pushing you over the edge. With so many haters, she's like the Madonna of essay writing. I love the part when she lays it on the line for her parents on what her life will end up like if she doesn't get this goddamn Cabbage Patch doll at 9 years old. Good times, this one.
I read "Are you there Vodka?
It's me, Chelsea" and enjoyed it.
However, “Chelsea Chelsea Bang Bang” made me cringe.
When you resort to stupid situations for laughs you need a new gig.
The first chapter about an 8-year-old Chelsea obsessively masturbating was pathetic.
The emails between the writer and her siblings weren't entertaining, just plain boring.
Her practical jokes as she grow up wear thin very quickly and I found myself wondering why I was reading this drivel.
This is just sad.Chelsea Handler is a good writer and a great comedian.
Handler needs to find something interesting to write about.
If you can't handle nasty or raunchy, then this book isn't for you -- but if you loved Sarah Silverman's The Bedwetter and all of Jenny McCarthy's memoirs, then make sure to pick this one up.Chelsea Chelsea Bang Bang is comprised of stories about random, crazy adventures and incidents from Handler's past.
She certainly knows how to tell a great story, even if she is a big fat whopping liar!My favorite part of Chelsea Chelsea Bang Bang is when she comments on her thoughts while watching Sister of the Traveling Period (er, Pants I mean) because I've said the same things about those movies.
I write this review having enjoyed her other books, that were, you know, funny and outrageous stories, so my issue isn't really her subject matter.
That said: this is a rambling bunch of foul-mouthed musings, none of which add up to single comprehensible story or even funny anecdote with a clear beginning, middle, and end.
The stories are basically like listening to your drunk friend try to tell you something REALLY FUNNY that JUST HAPPENED.
Don't get me wrong, I liked her stories about being drunk in the first two books, but this one seemed like it was written while drunk.
3.5 starsThis collection of essays was a quick read for me.
Dungeddit..." types, but overall, a pretty enjoyable read.
I mean, the book starts off with Chelsea's recollection of learning how to masturbate at 8 and quickly becoming addicted to it and then called out at Thanksgiving dinner for getting her fix with a serving spoon, and then ends on a high note of corrupting her sense of humor-lacking boyfriend into playing along with her almost-pathological lies.
Oh man, I was laughing so hard that I couldn't even speak long enough to communicate to my boyfriend what was so funny.
I didn't find it as funny as the other ones, and I agree with her self-assessment of her books here: “I never expected to be on the New York Times Best-Seller list.
I had a feeling my second one might because of the show, but for both of them to still be on the list is absurd and silly.”I am convinced she is a much better stand up comedian than a writer, but apparently people like her books!It was ok to read sitting on the porch with a glass of wine or dozing off to sleep.
That chapter is clearly missing details, either because they're too stupid to print or Chelsea was too wasted to remember the incident clearly.
Regardless, that chapter is a rotten apple to chew through, and the taste just lingers on from there.One chapter is just a set of email exchanges between her and her family members; no, not paraphrased, just printed out emails, with some messages in ALL_CAPS and everything.
The final chapter is about how she got her dog, which I had no patience for by then and simply glossed over, closed the book, and sighed, "Boring!"
I am a fan of Chelsea Handler's late night talks how on E!
However, Handler's third effort, "Chelsea Chelsea Bang Bang" falls short, especially in compared to the laugh out loud until you cried stories of her previous two books.
I was so excited to get my hands on a copy of this book and I am sad to admit that it didn't live up to the nightly plugs on Chelsea Lately or the level of writing ability as her previous two books.
Sigh, Chelsea Handler - I think you are hilarious and stay up later than I should to watch your show during the week, but this book left me wanting a lot more than I got.
Though, a fault thus far noticed: Chelsea's essay on her campaign for getting the Cabbage Patch Kid which will set her apart on the playground ends with a photograph of Young Miss Handler holding aforementioned Cabbage Patch Doll -a sort of trophy shot.
But, throughout the essay, she describes the Doll of her Dreams as being brunette.
Also, Young Miss Handler complains to her parents that she wants a CPD with one dimple.
This Chronological Dyslexia has occurred in other essays by Handler - parents beware: this book is not to be used as a historical document, no matter the ruling of the Texas Schoolboard.
I am a Chelsea Handler fan and I became a fan because of her first book, My Horizontal Life, so I expect her books to be funny. This one, however, is not. It's a mess. Most of the entries are more mean-spirited than funny and the stories are very sloppily written. I think the book is a failed imitation of David Sedaris. It's as if her literary agent handed Chelsea a copy of Me Talk Pretty One Day and said, "You have wacky friends and family. Write (or have your ghost writer write) something like this."
I actually really enjoyed the 3rd book, maybe even more than the other 2.
I liked that a lot of the stories involved Ted and the practical jokes he has to live through.
I also LOVED that there were pictures involved throughout the book...it made the story lines much more believable and gave a great visual to go with her short stories.
Because I watch her show nightly, I can see the stories play out much more clearly than I would be able to if I was just a reader w/ no knowledge of her sense of humor.
I want to like Chelsea but I just don't... Too crude.
Pretty good fluff book, I needed something to make me laugh :)
It was really funny, and read like a comedy skit. She might be making some things up but it's really funny nonetheless. What put me off was the overuse of stereotypes and offensive jokes that just put me off. Like one or two, I get it, do what you want. But multiple gay bashing jokes, making fun of trans people, the one muslim person mentioned in your book rides a camel? Jesus christ dude.
These life stories are so funny to read coming from the comedian Chelsea Handler.
I thought it was a great read to come home to after a stressful day at school.
It kept me laughing and always wanting to read the next ridiculous story about her life.
4. Because this book is written by a comedian, clearly the humor techniques flourished throughout the book.
5. Again, I would recommend this book and Chelsea Handler's other books to any girls my age or even mothers looking for a good laugh.
Chelsea is my sister from another dimension and we would totally bawl our eyes out for sufferings of Sarah Jessica Parker caused by evil Mr. Big.
We would pour Sarah Jessica Parker copious amounts of vodka and eat churros.
Also, somebody really made two movies about traveling pants - The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants - and this questions gnaws on our nerves like a thing that gnaws, because – how much of crack cocaine would be needed to concoct a thing of such stupidity?
Alas, even vodka gives no answers.
So, Chelsea, my gal.
We both love older (rich) men, gay pugs (or pugs owned by gays) and vodka.
Loved every story.
Edit: I don't think I can finish this.
It's really boring and not funny.
I heard Chelsea mention once on her show that she doesn't use ghost writers.
Maybe she should start.
They might suck less than her.
(In her defense the other book that I read by her was funny...
Also I took this off "lulz" shelfing as it provided no lulz.
So far so lame.
BORED.
There was some kind of story about a dog dying..
or not dying..
I don't know, I couldn't even follow what was going on, but it was really boring and not funny.
CHELSEA WTF.
The first chapter had me in tears, and the rest of it was pretty good too! Smart and funny lady!
I always enjoy reading Chelsea's books. She's straightforward and a bitch, two qualities I love. If you have a pint of vodka preferably belvedere, and an afternoon off indulge in some laughter.
DNF. Too many slurs.
I've wanted to read this for a long time, and when I finally got around to it, I didn't find it funny at all :( I guess I'm over her.
Chelsea Chelsea Bang Bangby Chelsea Handler 2010Grand Central/ HachetteSo my love/hate relationship with Chels continues.
She can make me laugh out loud at the most inappropriate comments,.
And then she can piss me off with the next comment.
This I hate abut her.But that is exactly what makes her so funny.This book of stories show one of the best forms of her comedy to me.....pulling off a prank.
No one ....no one can pull off a prank like Chels.......and even though I probably should not......I burst out in laughter.
The pranks against her boyfriend, Ted, are just too good.
2.5
