https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/571853.Now_Voyager
I am always on the lookout for novels of classic movies I have seen in the past especially ones that I loved, and in doing this I came across Now, Voyager!
The most dramatic change is the male leading character who in the movie is played by Paul Henrid & if you know that actor you could not see him as the American J.D. in the least.
I was able to imagine her in this story with some more highlights that are always present in the novel.
This in my mind is a great love story and being a romantic at heart, it fits the bill.
Four stars might be a little high, but this classic pulp lived up so nicely to its reputation I wanted to reward it. Truly a Delightful Romp with some real social commentary underneath the trappings of a classic women's novel.
This is the '30's so I'm guessing that she's like 24 when they decide on the spinster title.Charlotte goes to a sanatorium for her nerves.
Then Charlotte goes on a cruise to practice her newfound skills.She meets Jerry (yep from the quote) who is married to a horrid woman of his own.
They have a great time together and Charlotte really blossoms into her true self.
This is apparently a big deal.I picked this book up because I loved the movie.
I also loved this book.
Also, like many books from that time, there's a lot of concern about clothes and hatbands which I find hilarious.
It's being newly marketed as "pulp" and I suppose it is, but I tend to think of pulp has having some seedy elements -- murder, blackmail -- really, a gun should show up somewhere. This book is far too civilized for stuff like that. It's "women's fiction" -- kind of a romance, but entirely centered on the inner life of the female protagonist. I was amazed at how closely the movie stuck to the book, with many of the best lines of dialogue lifted straight from the novel.
I'd recommend this book to anyone who anyone who enjoys "quaint" 1940s romances or has an interest in feminist literature. The movie with Bette Davis is much better (although quite faithful to the story), but the book is certainly an entertaining quick read.
4.5 - the film spoiled me and I was surprised how closely it followed the book.
At first she is shy and self-depreciating, but then she meets J.D. Durrance and her entire perspective changes about life and especially about love.I really enjoyed this book.
I saw about 3/4 of the movie a while ago and just loved Betty Davis as Charlotte.
It is almost a fairy tale setting that stands in stark contrast to the life Charlotte returns to in the second half of the book.The ideas of individual freedoms and expression and responsibility are interwoven without seeming preachy.
read this book several years ago, just saw it on library shelf, remembered the movie, took out a lit crit book on it at the same time.
perhaps this has to do with it being once so popular, wanted to read what romantic fantasy was like back then.
perhaps this is why I remember it fondly.
inspired another look at the movie, some searching for other books of the same series- feminist press- as a counterbalance to the misogynist crime pulps that appeared then, this gives a good idea of what women want, what men were not aware of.
" Don't let's ask for the moon! We have the stars. "
It's not that I didn't appreciate the book itself, but nothing beats Bette Davis.
I think that's the problem with having watched the movie before the book, because the movie was fairly close to the book.
He's a wimp - he starts an affair with a woman he knows is emotionally vulnerable, without being able to commit to leaving his wife.
He leaves her, and when she's getting back on her feet he comes back again.
In the book, he calls himself a cad, and I agree completely.
It was a little frustrating, especially since there was no Bette Davis to tide me over the drama.
Charlotte Vale, of the Boston Vales, is the only daughter, and much younger than her brothers.
She is the spinster aunt, and lives to serve every beck, call, and whim of her mother, the domineering matriarch of the family, who has never actually liked her daughter.
After several months in a sanitarium called The Cascades under the care of the kind Dr. Jacquith, Charlotte embarks on a cruise.
She gets engaged, encounters J.D. again, and ends up caring for his youngest daughter....My rating, maybe 2.5 stars if I'm feeling generous.
In a book, it just seems like such a cheesy, histrionic novel.
I have always loved the Bette Davis/Paul Henreid movie, which I have probably seen 20+ times, but was never sure if I wanted to read the book.
One usually loves the book and hates the movie or visa versa.
I was pleasantly surprised to find that most of the dialog in the movie was the same as in the book and with only a few differences, such as which side of the Atlantic the cruise was on, the story was basically the same.
Definitely a chick book like the movie is a 40's chick flick, but worth the time.
After my recent disappointment with  The African Queen}, I was quite relieved to find that this book is quite worthy of another of my favorite movies. The movie follows the story closely and lifts much of the significant dialog verbatim. The story is richer in detail, giving more insight into the motivations of Charlotte, Jerry, and even to a certain extent Dr. Jaquith. I'm now on the hunt for [author: Olive Higgins Prouty's other books about the Vale family.
I read this book years ago after I had discovered old Bette Davis movies and loved the movie. This is the quintessential Bette Davis vehicle: the heroine surmounts incredible obstacles (spinsterhood, domineering mother, fat body, nervous breakdown) to find her true love and then-- but I won't reveal the ending in case you want to read it. Yes, the novel is dated, and yes, it is a romance. But just between you and me, I like a well-written romance once or twice a lifetime.
I love Bette Davis movies and I accidentally stumbled upon this book on the library shelf. Prouty transports you back to a time when most women had few options in life. You find yourself cheering for Charlotte Vale as she throws off the stifling chains of her mother's control and becomes her own woman and sets her own course in life.
Such a romantic story, about a young woman who is completely dominated by her mother and is unable to fend for herself. When she is given help in the end she goes on a cruise, falls in love with a married man, but still "finds herself" and lives a much happier and more fulfilled life. Old fashioned romantic novel, but well written and one that I loved as a teenager when I first read it.
I almost put it down at one point because the 1940s-style bantering was getting on my nerves, but I soldiered on and wholly enjoyed it. Can't wait to see the movie (again) on TCM on Feb. 19!
read when I was 16...and because it was on the Catholic banned book list, The Census. my rebellious phase.
Tragic but ultimately hopeful - particularly loved her being to escape from her tyrannical mother.
Very good, but I was uncomfortable with the defense of adultery.
Nov 2016 - The book is *always* better than the movie.
The best depiction of the experience of depression and recovery that I have ever read.
Oh, Jerry...... This is the most beautiful account of the metamorphosis of a beautiful woman. Although written over 70 years ago, this is a must read that is timeless.
I walked out of that library, clutching the book like a five year old holding a ratty teddy bear.I used to always espouse the importance of reading the book before watching the film, but there is benefit to experiencing the derivative work first.
You are more open-minded when you see the derivative work and then when you return to the original, you're not as critical of it because even if it's not better than the derivative, without it, the latter would not exist, so it's entitled to a baseline respect.The movie followed the book pretty closely.
I admit, I let the movie be my guide when reading passages about characters that were omitted from the film.
Who knew that one of my favorite movies was originally a novel?
Well of course I should have known since that's where so many movie ideas come from, but Olive Higgins Prouty books aren't exactly jumping off the shelves at your local bookstore.
I suppose I should be discussing the book rather than the film, but guess what?
So while I enjoyed that to a degree, because I'm such a fan of the film, it did make reading the book slightly less interesting, as I knew just what to expect at every moment.
As Judith Mayne points out in her afterword, Charlotte Vale only finds satisfying lovers in men from classes below that of her wealthy Boston family; her engagement to a man from her own, or perhaps slightly superior class is distinctly passionless.I was disappointed to learn that the Feminist Press "Femmes Fatales" edition I read was taken from "the slightly abridged Dell pulp, as this was the version most widely (and perhaps avidly) read in the 1940s." (268).
This was especially irritating when Mayne points out that, in the hardcover edition, "Charlotte and Jerry talk with two Germans in Italy ('Nazis they called themselves' [151])." (277-8) This is the kind of detail I relish in older books.
I have a love/hate relationship with this book.
I hate it because the"ugly duckling" protagonist"blooms" because of the influence of a man, and I love it because she learns to be happy by herself, without being a couple.
Charlotte Vale is from a rich Boston family.
This is where she meets the man who changes her life.Higgins Prouty is an author I admire, though she isn't much of a feminist.
I loved "Stella Dallas," and I was impressed when I found out she was a supporter of Sylvia Plath, though sadly, Sylvia Plath repaid her kindness with harsh treatment in "The BellJar."
Later-in-life born Charlotte, in effect spayed and suffocated by her selfish domineering mother, ends up on a therapeutic cruise ship after three months in a mental asylum. She meets another nervous breakdown survivor who pulls her out of her shell. Three principal characters are afflicted by outer-induced emotional lacerations. The shrink has a nice go-with-what-works style.Mild by today's standards, but still hep enough for lines like "Take me out . . give me cocktails, and champagne, and then make violent love to me."Absorbing.
Delightfully pulpy 1920s melodrama about a ritzy Boston family's spinster aunt who has a mental breakdown, gets a makeover, becomes a cosmopolitan beauty with impostor syndrome, has a shocking illicit romance, and rejects traditional models of success in favor of surrounding herself with chosen family. I don't think it was MEANT to be queer/trans allegory? But that's what I GET OUT OF IT
I've become a big fan of the film starring Bette Davis, so was eager to read the book it was based on. What a wonderful story. Prouty's writing is gorgeous. I was also happy to see that the movie followed the book almost verbatim. I plan to read more of Prouty's works.
