https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11422.Redeeming_Love
Besides, there's over a thousand reviews of this book on GR (hard to believe--I must have been one of the few people who haven't read this book)!
I loved the broken and bitter prostitute heroine, Angel, and the saintly, patient (too good to be true) farmer hero, Michael.
The book deals with some really horrible and heartbreaking stuff (child rape, prostitution, incest)(but not in real explicit terms) and just when you think you've read the worst, something else is revealed that will break your heart all over again.
I don't think I'll forget this story for quite a while--5 stars!
5 Inspiring Stars!! I'm soooo happy!! Where's a box of tissues when you need them?? I have to listen to the end again. Oh my, I can't stop crying!! Michael...he is the power of love!! No review I could ever do, would give this book the justice it is so deserving of! You have to experience it to understand all the meaning that it holds. Thank you to KarLyn who was the first to tell me about this book, and then all my other friends who encouraged me to read it. It's an amazing journey I will NEVER
5 Inspiring Stars!! I'm soooo happy!! Where's a box of tissues when you need them?? I have to listen to the end again. Oh my, I can't stop crying!! Michael...he is the power of love!!
  No review I could ever do, would give this book the justice it is so deserving of! You have to experience it to understand all the meaning that it holds. Thank you to KarLyn who was the first to tell me about this book, and then all my other friends who encouraged me to read it. It's an amazing journey I will NEVER forget!
It isn't about drama or angst or sexy loves scenes...it is a powerful, eye-opening story focused on faith and redemption; on rising up from the dust of despair and finding yourself worthy.
His patience and love for Angel was astonishing, and his faith in himself and in God--inspiring.
I've never before felt such a strong sense of love and acceptance through a character.
Angel and Michael's connection stands as a pure example of love in its most honest and unconditional state...exactly how it's meant to be.
▪	 Plot: Centers largely on redemption, faith, and the healing power of love.
Please note: I read the Kindle version which apparently is the clean Christian version.
Darn.4 Angel StarsThis is a Christian based love story about a prostitute finding redemption and spirituality with her farmer husband.
God speaks to Michael and tells him that Angel/Sarah is to be his wife.
Michael sets out to wed the closed off Angel and offers her a home and freedom.
Michael and Angel/Sarah were wonderful characters and their love was epic but somewhere around 78 percent the story went pretty preachy for my tastes.
Nonetheless the writing was strong and it is a nice story of redemption and spiritual rebirth.
That alone explains why Christian authors need to be careful with their content, they are representing Jesus.I am aware that this is meant to be based on the book of Hosea in the Bible.
The point of Hosea is God's love towards unfaithful Israel despite their waywardness.
It is not on the details of Gomer's sin.The popularity of this book and some of the comments are representative of the "God as love" or some kind of "divine romancer" beliefs that are prevalent, as if God needs us and is desperate for us, rather than the other way around.
4.5 starsRedeeming Love is one of those must-read romances worth reading at least onceThere are two versions of  Redeeming Love.  This is a review of the original 1991 version. The 1997 version is basically the same as the original, but was edited to remove any descriptions of the love scenes and any coarse language to make it suitable for the Christian market.Based on the Book of Hosea from the Bible, where God told the prophet, Hosea to marry the prostitute, Gomer - "Go marry a prostitute and
The 1997 version is basically the same as the original, but was edited to remove any descriptions of the love scenes and any coarse language to make it suitable for the Christian market.Based on the Book of Hosea from the Bible, where God told the prophet, Hosea to marry the prostitute, Gomer - "Go marry a prostitute and have children with her.- here we have Michael Hosea, a farmer being told by God to marry Angel, a local whore in the 1850s goldfields of California.
Redeeming Love written in 1991, bridges the writing of her original romances and her later Christian fiction, illustrating well the old and new Francine Rivers in the one book.
*Read this book about 10 years ago.
(March 14th, 2013) I finished and this book is still my all time favorite book!
Deserves more than 5 stars.*This book is based off the love story from the Bible of Hosea and Gomer.
Gomer is a prostitute and Hosea is a Godly man told to marry her.
This is the  ultimate love story!I loved reading about Michael & Angel's love story.
There were so many things I wanted to highlight throughout this book.
One of my favorite lines was: "Hello, Sarah.
The song Amazing Grace reminds me of this book:
Michael is definitely my book husband.
I think I must have sighed a hundred times from heartbreak and angst for these characters and forget about keeping track of my facial expressions, but I treasured every moment irregardless of what people around me must have witnessed.First off, one thing I must note about this book, and it’s probably the one small element that held me off from reading it sooner than I did, or reading it at all for that matter.
For me to pick up a book with a religious/spiritual tone, well… let’s just say I’d never think that would happen, and I’m just being honest.
Well, I’m good with that and willing to own it because it’s books like Redeeming Love that remind me some of them are just worth it.
رواية تضع أمام القارئ حقائق بالغة الدقة عن الفرق بين المقاييس البشرية والمقاييس الألهية في التعامل مع الأحداث التي تعترض حياة البشر .
وتكشف الحكمة من العذابات والصعاب التي تعصف أحيانا بحياة الأنسان والتي يقف العقل عاجزا عن استيعابها أو فهمها.ما لا يفهمه البشر بشكل عام تكمن وراءه حكمة الهية وخير عميم .
ولا يقوى على استيعاب متناقضات الحياة وأهوالها إلا من تسلح بالإيمان العميق .تعاملات مايكل معاها, وتعاملاتها مع مايكل, هم صورة حية لعلاقتنا مع الله الذي لا نستوعب محبته وقبوله الفائق لنا مهما كان حالنا.إن كل كلمة في القصة لهي درس عميق يري فيها القارئ نفسه مكان “سارة” ويلتمس حب الله في شخص “مايكل” البطل
I think the purpose of this book was overshadowed by the very dark subject matter.
She run’s away from her devoted husband multiple times, which also got old.
The whole thing was very depressing and I only continued to read hoping it would get better.
I also didn’t like that her husband was suppose to be so understanding yet was still sleeping with her before she even loved him or before they really had a decent relationship.
For the subject matter and details given I would have give it at R rating.
I wish I hadn’t bothered reading it.
5 STARS  She thought she had been saved by his love for her, and in part she had been.
It had cleansed her, never casting blame.
But that had been only the beginning.
It was loving him in return that had brought her up out of the darkness.
Wow. So much to say about this book.
And I don’t even know where to begin.
The emotions incited were overwhelming.
My chest still hurts from the feelings I have.
I must say, I don’t cry often when I read.
And when I do, it is more often out of sorrow and pain
And I don’t even know where to begin.
She lost any hope she had of love and happiness in her life.
And she knew deep down to the bottom of her soul that those things were not meant for her.
They looked into her angel eyes and were lost.
Penniless and alone, she was quickly drawn right back into the life she had tried so hard to escape.There was no freedom.
And in a way, it proved that although food and water are needed to nourish our bodies, they may not be as important to our survival as faith and hope and trust.
We didn't have to spend two chapters on her being sold at the age of eight and raped by a monster, over and over again, over the next number of years.So, in the end, it fails as an allegory; Michael doesn't chase after her quite as the real Hosea did; Sarah isn't wanting to return to a life of sensual fulfillment as Gomer was.
Also, it tipped over the edge more than once into sensationalism, ending in being more like a soap opera than like a story focused only on the redemption of a soul and a lifestyle.I welcome thoughtful comments...I'm quite willing to explain my thoughts further, but don't want to spend too much time on the review.
I guess you could say that they both had things to do first before they could be together but I think they really wasted some very valuable time that they could’ve been better spent together.The epilogue is quite moving and God finally decides to give something back apart from just his love which is supposed to be the true reason for living, but I didn’t really see what kind of happiness it brought these people because without each other they were horribly sad and lost.If you take the novel as a retelling of the Book Hosea(what little I know about it) it’s pretty good, but if you read it as a romance you may be disappointed.
I recieved this as a part of the First Reads program.I was repulsed by this book.It's supposed to be a Christian romance novel.
Looking past the forced marriage, rape, beatings and child rape described in the book.
The plot device of using these characters to represent god and his unconditional love that he supposedly has for his children was weak.
She runs away after being forced to work for and take care of him.
Please don't waste your time reading this book, get something else that will celebrate life and the worth of an individual, or something that you will learn something from.
كلماتها مفعمة بالتسامح و المحبة غير المشروطة ، لا أحد على وجه البسيطة يملك الحق في اتهامك أو تصنيفك ، لا أحد يملك سلطة على نفسك ، قد تكبلك القيود لكنك وحدك تملك مفاتيح أقفالها ، و حين تنهي قراءتها تتفهم تماماً أن معظم آلامك كانت نابعة منك أنت لأنك لم تكن قادراً على مسامحة نفسك و لم تتمكن من استيعاب طبيعتك البشرية المجبولة على الخطايا ..
كل ما يتوجب عليك وقتها أن تفتح نوافذ قلبك للشمس و أن توطّن روحك لاستقبال المحبة ، فبالرغم من كل ما حدث ، أنت إنسان من حقك أن تحب و من حقك أن تكون محبوباً ..
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI am not religious, so my review of this inspirational romance will be coming from the perspective of a secular reader. Our theme read in the Unapologetic Romance Readers group for the month of May was "christian romance," and REDEEMING LOVE was actually my nomination. Francine Rivers is a name that gets bandied around a lot, not just in the christian fiction groups, but also in the historical romance groups in general. I was curious to see
I also thought that the way the religion was written in this book is probably suitable for the time period in which it was written (1850-ish), because most people in the 19th century were religious, and it formed the backbone of their social circles in many cases.Honestly, my two biggest pet peeves were that epilogue and the fact that Paul got an HEA.
Apparently this is a retelling of a bible story.
I think this may be only the second Christian themed novel I've ever read, which means its the first one I ever finished.
Its not a light read, and at times was even depressing.
I can't tell you how many times I wanted to crawl into the book to talk with Angel, hug Michael, slap his brother, kill a bad guy, shelter a person down on their luck...etc.
But my next book will be a light read.
لتعود في النهاية إلي سارة الرقيقة زوجة المحبوب مايكل ..فتاة نبذتها الحياة وكل ما ومن فيها بدءا من أبيها عشيق أمها مرورا بصديق أمها ومواجهتها لحياة الساقطات في كل مدينة حتي نبذت هي نفسها وأصبحت تحمل أوزارها في كل مكان ..بنت سورا عاليا حول قلبها فهي لا تستحق الحياة منذ البداية لذلك لا تؤمن بشي ولا بأحد ..كره ويأس وعدم إيمان ...
تعاني سارة من كل هذا وهي لم تصل إلي العشرين بعد فقد عاشت أعمار كاملة منذ عمر الثمان سنوات ...ولكنها وصلت أخيرا إلي شاطيء الأمان بين يدي حبيبها مايكل من أنار قلبها للحقيقة والنور ، من رسم لها طريق الخلاص ...استمتعوا ...
Oh, if she could only be Eve again, a new creature in Paradise. Before the Fall.  3.5 stars. I had a full review typed out and accidentally closed my window without saving. Take 2 will have a couple of thoughts (and a very awesome quote) missing.Michael and Sarah/Angel are destined to be together. Michael's prayers have led him to Angel, and when he sees her, he knows that she is the one he has been praying for. However, Michael is having a hard time convincing Angel of this. For Angel is a pr
No man has ever shown her love or respect, which makes Angel wary of Michael's good intentions.Even though I ended up with the less-descriptive version of this story (the intimate scenes were cut back), I didn't mind the lack of sex.
It got a little noisy in the characters heads with the question and answer sessions.The best part of this story was going on the entire journey with Michael and Sarah, from start to finish.
I love frontier and pioneer stories, and getting to see how people survived in these times.
DNF @ page 50I was supposed to read this to page 200 as punishment for lost bet but I'm gonna be dishonorable scum and just bail out of it because I just can't go on with this. This book is probably good if you are into this kind of stuff but religious romance about redeeming love for anti-romantic, cynical atheist like me was just torture.
He eventually dumps them, and cut off from funds and family let's just say that life on the docks isn't easy.
The main focus of the story begins years later as Sarah (now called Angel) is most highly sought after prostitute in the California gold rush town of Pair-of-Dice.
Despite wanting to have to smack Angel a few times I thoroughly enjoyed this book and had a hard time putting it down.
My only quibble is with the epilogue, just skip it and let the story end where it should have.
Read this years ago and realized I hadn't rated it. Such a beautiful story!
It’s such a beautiful, angst-filled, heart-wrenching love story, and I know it will stay in my memory for a very long time.
From the moment Michael sees the beautiful golden-haired angel walking by, he knows she’s the one.
Having never known the true love of any man, it takes Angel a very long time to believe Michael’s love is real, and even longer for her to feel she’s worthy of it.
But in the end, my tears of pain turned to tears of joy as Michael and Angel walked through fire and came out strong on the other side.
I asked a few GR friends if they thought that this book was appropriate for someone who isn't Christian or religious, and they all said yes, that it was more of an uplifting love story than anything else.
The theme of the story is based on the Book of Hosea from the Bible, where God told the prophet, Hosea to marry a prostitute."Go marry a prostitute and have children with her."I can see how people who have a religious background and like the idea of Jesus leading them to their soul-mate would love this book.
I thought the hero deserved a wake-up call to ditch the heroine.
He's too saintly & his heart must've been the size of an ocean to have accepted the runaway heroine again & again.
I could see why the ending was deemed touching & moving but I expected so much more.
Oh yeah I've never liked books that don't know when to stop @ HEA, it ruins the romance when I read epilogues where H/H perish @ certain age after a long, blissful matrimony w/ a boatload of children & grandkids.
Spare me the morbid ending.

I have cried many tears, been angry, hurt, and horrified at the atrocities in this story, and yet have this silly grin on my face when I think about the hope this novel gives, and the truth of God's love and devotion to all.I can not go into all the details of this book, but I can say it's about a little girl who was robbed of her innocence at a very young age.
This little girl becomes a beautiful woman who has had to harden her heart in order to deal with her life as a prostitute.
5+++ StarsAn amazing and unforgettable love story that touched my heart deeply.
Angel lost her innocence and hope as a young child.
There is no hope left in her soul.
Michael, a handsome, young farmer with a great faith in God, offers her a new life.
He wants to marry her, cherish her and show her the true meaning of love.
An intense, emotional story of faith, hope and unconditional love.
This book retells the story of Hosea and Gomer from the Bible.
It's not at all preachy and one of best loves stories I've ever read.
This is that kind of sublime love - romantic and spiritual - Francine Rivers is exploring in this story.She based the story of Angel and Michael on an Old Testament story about a man who is told by God to marry a prostitute.
I'm glad I read it on a Sunday - better than any sermon.It was the romance that was missing - and the beautiful sex scenes that *showed* what the characters had to *tell* the readers - that sex between a husband and wife is beautiful and pleasing to God. I wanted to see that sublime sex - the shattering of Angel's reality - rather than being told about it.
There are many things, good and bad, that could be said about this book, but I have only one thing to say.Forced sex is rape.
Every time.
That is pure rape.
What makes me sick is that she has to "find forgiveness" for this, that he never repents, that the book never recognizes rape for what it is.
It's time to wake up and call it what it is.
It also deeply disturbs me that so many people read this book and do not see this sickness.
