https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52362.Ronin
Meticulously conceived and executed, beautifully coloured and produced (for its time), ambitious, bold, energetic, pop-culture obsessed (manga, Moebius, 2001: A Space Odyssey, etc.), shallow, derivative, humorless, clumsy, self-righteous, pompous. Historically significant in terms of comic-book marketing (genre diversity, older target audience, artsy ambitions, more creative control, higher production values), but not the masterpiece it was made out to be when originally published back in 1983.
La historia no está mal aunque se podría contar mucho mejor, al principio va contándose en dos linea
Full disclosure - this is the third book by Frank Miller I've read after Batman: Year One (which I think is brilliant) and Batman: The Dark Knight Returns (which I think is good but a little overrated).So, Ronin.
So, overall - pretty good story held back by terrible art.Two stars.In historical contextI think you also have to look at this (and really any book) partly as a product of its time.
One of the other reviews on here summed up this book brilliantly - basically it's more important than enjoyable.However you look at it, the art is still terrible though.
Graficamente eccezionale mi perplime la storia o, meglio, come viene sviluppata.Confesso di non averla compresa in pieno.Descrizione della città, delle persone, alcuni dialoghi, Virgo ... tutte cose magnifiche a dir poco.A lettura finita però ... rimango sempre con quel punto interrogativo che forse era voluto dall'autore, può darsi.Però mi impedisce di dargli la quinta stella.
A classic, years ahead of its time. Surprisingly dense, but still a little lighter than Neuromancer. I can't say anything that has not yet been said about Frank Miller's brilliant work - other than sometimes the opposite of collaboration can yield incredible results. He wrote, drew and colored this entire work - and the results are incredible.
All wrapped up in Frank Miller's first original outing, a story for which I find incredibly hard to believe I went this long without hearing any praise.It follows a dishonored, masterless, 13th century Japanese warrior, a Ronin, who has failed his master in battle, leaving the Ronin to walk the Earth after his master is killed by the powerful demon Agat.
The Ronin and Agat possess new bodies, and begin a final fight for vengeance.I was really impressed by how this story was handled, mainly in the climax/ending.
But with Miller's new Holy Terror removing the ambiguity of 300's xenophobia, perhaps I'm unfairly turning my nose up at material my adolescent self would dig (Why I didn't click with this when I loved the first few volumes of Preacher is an open question).Then again, maybe not.
Characters keep questioning the absurdity of this turn of events, and though that's only sane, I think it's too bad that their skepticism is born out, and it emerges that the ronin was largely a fantasy of a barely developed protagonist.
Just ok... I don't understand how some reviews are just dying over the art work. It looked as if a 12 year old drew it. Seriously. There were some decent scenes but that's about it. To compare this work to Sin City or DKR is just ludicrous. I hear they are making a movie of it which should be pretty cool. Just don't read this thinking you're gonna be nail biting it every page like Sin City or staring at amazing art like in DKR. Just good. Sketchy storyline.
Editado em 1983 (!), Ronin é um marco na história da banda desenhada, "uma obra extraordinariamente inovadora e que rompeu as fronteiras, até então fechadas a sete chaves, entre os comics americanos, a BD europeia e o manga japonês.
(...) Uma aposta arriscada de um criador rebelde, que optou por sair da sua zona de conforto para criar algo inovador.".
F. Miller, para além de escrever e editar a estória, desenhou e passou ele próprio a tinta os seus desenhos, deixando a cor nas mãos de Lynn Varley (sua namorada e futura colaboradora noutros projetos).
Uma obra de arte à frente do seu tempo e uma referência na história das novelas gráficas.
Διάβασε όλο το review εδώΞεκάθαρα, πρόκειται για ένα από τα καλύτερα concept που σκέφτηκε ποτέ του ο Frank: το δέσιμο γιαπωνέζικης μυθολογίας με την cyberpunk κατάσταση του μέλλοντος χαρίζει στην ιστορία ένα μοναδικό, αλλοπρόσαλλο ύφος που δεν ξεχνιέται με τίποτα, ενώ, τέλος, η αποκάλυψη του τί ακριβώς συμβαίνει στην πραγματικότητα είναι πανέξυπνη.Ας μην ξεχνάμε και το σκίτσο, όμως, το οποίο μπορεί να είναι πιο ωμό από μετέπειτα προσπάθειες του, αλλά βρίσκει για πρώτη φορά τον Miller να ξεφεύγει εντελώς από το αμερικανικό στυλ και να μετατρέπει τα panel του σε μια δυναμική μίξη από manga και Γαλλο-Βελγικά comics.
A editora envia auto-colantes e distribui capas externas para quem for mais perfecionista e se importar muito com o erro.Ronin foi a afirmação de Miller como autor no mundo dos comics.
Apesar do resvalo do autor para um tipo de histórias fortemente xenófobas e carregadas de conservadorismo violento, algo que já se sentia em Dark Knight e Sin City, mas diluía-se na narrativa, enquanto Holy Terror, de 2011, é incrivelmente panfletário e racista, Miller continua um nome de referência no mundo dos comics, ilustrador de traço provocador e mestre na narrativa gráfica.
I’m coming to this graphic novel after working through all of Sin City.
And the characters, drawn to look much more conventionally human than in Sin City, look too much alike to carry the story.
The opening sequence in which the Ronin tracks down the demon Agat to try to kill him with a magical sword is fabulous; if the whole book were that strong I’d be singing its praises.Things get bogged down in the futuristic setting of the living machine.
When the Ronin and the demon each take over the bodies/minds of characters in that new world, I get confused over who is allied with whom and why.

Once considered one of the greats of the comic world, his work had plummeted into what can only be described as the depths of hell (his last graphic novel "Holy Terror" can only be described as a work so awful its existence has damaged the entire medium of comics).
But early in his career, when he still had artistic merit, he created "Ronin." This graphic novel is...
But that twist is the very reason why this comic served as an inspiration to a TV show is so...
The first Frank Miller book I've read.
The fact that it happens to be early Miller wasn't intentional.
The regular two-page spreads showing the growth of the Aquarius complex worked conceptually, but again the art wasn't great.
Multi-page spreads need to be worth the extra real estate and these weren't; they were scribbly and ugly, but not in an intentionally good, artistic way.
The clever use of black panels and art that spans multiple panels was well-done and I suspect was much more uncommon and cool in the early 80's.The writing was solid and definitely ensures I will eventually read most of Miller's work.
Dal punto di vista della grafica, i disegni e lo stile di alcune tavole non mi è piaciuto particolarmente, ho preferito il Miller di Sin City.
Alcune tavole però sono veramente belle, e il modo in cui raccontano la storia è davvero eccezionale, in alcuni punti la tensione cresce e le pagine si sfogliano con impeto, con la voglia di scoprire come andrà a finire.La storia è veramente il punto forte di tutto, l'autore gioca con noi e ogni cosa ti porta a credere che si stia raccontando "quella" storia, e invece è tutt'altro.
cover art does bear huge impact on me, which is why I doubted I'd enjoy this at only one glance, but...it came recommended by someone with quite similar reading tastes and come on!, it was by Miller, the man behind one of the greatest Batman titles of all time (but also, for me, one of the worst, which I should have remembered).
so I did read the whole thing, spending little time on each page - highly irregular for a guy who can eye-devour a single cell let alone a page for minutes.
wouldn't recommend to anyone.
I'm just going to go ahead and assume that all of the plot points of Ronin have already been shared in other reviews, so I can just jump right in to the good stuff.
Ronin is classic Frank Miller in two ways: 1.
Great story with some twists, and 2.
Personally, I thought the middle dragged a bit, but the end of the story makes everything worth it.
While I very much appreciate Frank Miller's style, it can just look like a mess on a couple of the smaller panels, and I honestly couldn't make out what they were suppose to be.
This is a very fun story, well-written and engaging -- but what really blew me away was the artwork. When drawing images of an imaginary future, people tend to pull from sterotypes in design, but Miller has created a new visual world, unlike any other. His interpretation of what a bio-mechanical city would look like is unique -- but also, simply the way he is using pen and ink to make the images on the pages is exhilarating.
Frank Miller; One of the legends of the comic industry. If asked what my favourite Frank Miller book is, you would probably expect me to say The Dark Knight Returns or The 300. You might think it's Sin City. Excellent as those are, you would be wrong on all counts. I think Ronin is his best ever work. It's stunning and brilliant on so many levels. It would make a wonderful film, starting in Muromachi period Japan and moving to a dystopian futuristic USA. Everyone should read it.
A classic, often eclipsed by Frank Miller's more prominent work. First one of his books I ever read, before I was old enough to know who he was. Incredible artwork and an amazing story that is begging for the big screen treatment, like Kurosawa-meets-Blade Runner!
It's official: I'm done reading Frank Miller. Disjointed story with terribly sloppy/ugly art and unbelievable (often unreadble) dialogue.
A simple revenge story reveals itself to be a complicated plot of telekinesis and artificial intelligence. Art is gruff and violent but still manages to be beautiful now and again. Find book.
"Our lives are as fragile and as brief as a cherry blossom's. And as fragrant."
Art wise not near the high levels of his seen in Sin City,The Dark Knight Returns,Daredevil,300.
Se volete leggere la mia recensione, cliccate qui!http://ascwblog.blogspot.it/2015/11/f...
Un guerrero samurái emplazado en un entorno futurista para enfrentarse a una corporación armamentística que domina Nueva York.Como siempre, Miller rompió moldes con su estética feista y tosca pero que tiene algo que te atrapa, y como ejercicio narrativo es brillante.
Como siempre su compañera Lynn Varley usa una paleta de colores explosiva que realza el grafismo.Quizás haya quedado algo obsoleta a día de hoy, pero tiene un valor histórico innegable.
I really enjoyed Frank Miller's Daredevil run, both the story and the art. I like the concept of this mini series. However I DO NOT like the art in this series, it's very confusing at points and not well defined and clear. While I am a fan of other Frank Miller work I do not recommended this series
ESTIMATED DNF RATING: {2/5 star to 2.5/5 stars}STANDARDIZED RATING: <2/5 stars>
As the events during this span unfold and intensify, page after page, the panels repeat a certain structure set against an ultra-wide splash on the opposing page of Aquarius transitioning from full blackout, to barely lit, to partly lit, to half-lit, to mostly lit, to...you get the picture.I can honestly say my jaw was gaping for the entire sequence, all the way from the moment when I realized he was going to carry the device out, step by step, to the end.Whatever serious criticisms Frank Miller may rightfully deserve as a writer, an artist, and a human - and whatever flaws this book in particular may in fact have - there is no denying such an utterly immersive, absolutely breathtaking visual experience, or such an original, influential world with so many little details and background elements to pick apart, revel in, and enjoy.An absolute must-read for anyone who loves comics.
