https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1040940.The_White_Flower
Omigosh, I have a new favorite Hill book.---The year is 1927.Quiet, lovely Rachel Rainsford has just lost her scholarly father, and is alone in the world.
Rachel embarks on the train trip with misgivings, for she feels apprehensive about the gentleman who is assigned to escort her; but she quiets her worries by telling herself she is simply shy and old-fashioned, there's nothing to be worried about--nothing at all.Then, a strange young man walks past her in the train car, and drops a note in her lap: "Don't look startled!
The most endearing novel that I've read. My FAVORITE book, no contest. Old-fashioned charm with subtle romance and lots of thrill. Too bad I don't have my own copy. It's so frustrating, I could almost cry.
Don't be deceived by the cover. This is a reprint of a 1927 Christian thriller. Train jumping! Hiding out in the woods! High-speed getaways! Human trafficking! Locking up innocent people in insane asylums! And on top of all that, poor Rachel is worried that she's lost her hat. I don't think I will ever understand the importance of hats to people back then.All in all, not great literature, but a fun and exciting diversion from everyday life.
Rachel Rainsford is alone in the world, which is probably why she made such a colossal mistake as answering that ad to be a companion to a "sweet old lady" somewhere far away.
So begins a story of HUMAN TRAFFICKING that totally caught me by surprise.
Way to be relevant almost a hundred years after going into print!!!Thankfully Ray (as she is later called) has a young man named Chan (ok it threw me too) to act as rescuer.
Exciting and with just the right balance of faith and romance to round this out into a stunning example of Grace's work.
As a child, my father's mother (Ma Clem) read the Bible daily and would occasionally read a Grace Livingston Hill and pass it on to me. I read a number of Hill's works and the description of this title seems familiar. I did like this at the time, probably in the early to mid-60s. I might try to find one to read over the holidays this year, now that both my father and Ma Clem have passed. (His favorite author was Clive Cussler, and I might just read an early Cussler novel also.)
This was not one of my favorite books by Hill. The story was cute, but I didn't like the main guy a lot. He seemed to come to faith a little to conveniently right when he wanted to get with the girl.
Enduring love story is accurate for this bookI am a huge fan of Grace L. Hill. No surprise that I like this book as well. Has a lot of the things I like in a good read: mystery, adventure, and a sense of hope that true love is out there. I appreciate the clean, old fashioned writing.
Cute wholesome storyCute wholesome story but contradictory at some points. Xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxx xxxxx x x x
Intriguing story, can't put the book down kind of read. Highly recommend!
Some of her books are really good, some ok and some that aren't so good.I happen to like her style, although I do have to be in the right frame of mind for it.
According to Goodreads, I last read it 3 years ago.I liked the rescue, and then continual escapes (and another rescue) that happens.
Chan was a great hero and his search for something better was well told.
Rachel was a gentle heroine, and it was nice that it was her manner and convictions that made Chan want to be a better person and find the peace and relationship with God that Rachel has.
I struggled with this one. Just had a hard time getting into it. It was cheesy, preachy, and pretty slow. It was clean and had some fun ideas I must admit though I had to skim through some of it. Maybe just the mood I was in but not one I will be reading again.
This was such a sweet book! Chan completely cracked me up so many times. I would definitely read this book again.
A bit slow from time to time the escape plans went on and on and the bad guys had rather too much luck at first and then it all wound up much too quickly but still enjoyable.
I love her books.
One of the best books Grace ever wrote!!
this book was written in the 1930's...i totally love the way women used to dress....the funny way they said things back then...all the slang....i just love this particular author.
