https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3476.Icy_Sparks
Ugh. I just saw the book cover, and wanted to hurl. My sister told me to read it. Thats the last recommendation she ever gave... I killed her.
i thought this book would be interesting: a little girl growing up with Tourette's in 1950s Kentucky. i was so wrong. this book does a horrible job of getting inside a child's mind and does little to show us how her doctors at the institution came to understand enough about it to finally send her home. then it gets all Jesus-freak at the end. i have no idea why this is in Oprah's book club. no sir, i didn't like it.
I didn't care for this book.
It felt like one of those that you're supposed to like to seem smart of part of a certain crowd-ie oprah's book club.
I got this from a thrift store, since normally O don't read the oprah books.
I didn't really care about her as a character.
I was also very annoyed that I read 275+- pages then it went very "God showed me the way" in the last 20-30 pages.
I hate preachy books, even more so when it comes out of left field.
The ending felt like a cop out.
i read this in high school and used it as part of my research for a paper on tourette's. "but anna," you may be thinking, "this book has a publication date of 2001, and you are 26 years old. that math doesn't compute."yeah, well, books exist before oprah gets her hands on them. TAKE THAT, OPRAH! WHO SCOOPED YOU NOW, HUH??!?!? you think you're SOOOOOO cool with your show and your book club and your free iPods? well GUESS WHO READ THIS BOOK before you?????anyway, i remember liking it.
Gestures and body language are ALWAYS described in an awkward, baffling manner ('Miss Emily centered her hands on top of the table and pushed up' - what the hell is that illustrating??
I also found the middle portion of the book, where Icy is institutionalized, to be annoyingly ham-handed.
If there's supposed to be some symbolism in the autistic boy that headbutts like a bull and the crazy kid who thinks he's a bird (NOT an actual disorder or remotely believable just stop it), it isn't readily apparent and doesn't go anywhere.
Icy Sparks is Anne of Green Gables with Tourette Syndrome. I loved the character, but wasn't super crazy about the story. The book is divided into three parts. The first part was kind of painful because it shows her at 10 years old first beginning to manifest Tourette's, and becoming an outcast in her community--it's the 1950's in rural Kentucky and nobody had a clue about Tourette's. I really liked the second part, which induced me to keep reading the book (saying what it's about would be a spoiler), but the last part was a letdown.
That's how I felt when I closed the book on Icy Sparks by Gwyn Hyman Rubio.
As one growing up with deaf parents, I felt very different from the others as a child.
They didn't accept people's differences as easily as they do today.Luckily, Icy is surrounded by enough love from her grandparents, her friend Miss Emily, her principal Mr. Wootten and the hospital aide Maizy that she isn't lost forever.
She's got a gift that helps her deal with what's happening to her--a lovely singing voice.I thought this book was fantastic and definitely recommend it as an excellent read!
I was so on board with this book, the style, the struggle of the main character, the way the reader begins to realize this book isn't simply talking about the pain of living with Tourettes but actually the difficulties each of us face attempting to fit into society, and then WHAM the ending.
Maybe YOU will love the ending, but all I can tell you is that I rolled my eyes a LOT in the last 30 pages.
Read it, then tell me if you rolled your eyes too.
I'm not saying every character that appears on page needs to have a full history and story going on, but there were characters that played a huge part in Icy's life that didn't have enough to them.
But if you're going to write in the perspective of a ten-year-old, keep it consistent.At times I felt Icy was not thinking nor acting her age, her views became suddenly too adult, her attitude to adult.
It's hard to write from the perspective of younger people, so I give Rubio major props for being able to capture any of those ages.So, basically, it was character that gave the book it's biggest flaws.
As the mother of a child that has Tourette's Syndrome, I was appalled by the stereotypical portrayal of the main character. Complex vocal and motor tics, such as those described in this book, are the rarest symptoms of this disorder and yet I've heard it called "The Cussing Disease" because it is always shown at the absolute worst end of the spectrum in print and media.Believe me, if my son starts spewing out cuss words then it isn't because of his Tourette's.
3.5 stars rounded to 4 stars. Thought provoking but somewhat repetitive on the issues addressed. I would think this would be appropriate for a tween. First book I've ever read that character has Tourette syndrome so that was interesting.
The feeling at the end is that the author needed a quick and tidy way to wrap up Icy's story, it felt like a cop out..after years of struggling with Tourette's Syndrome (undiagnosed) it takes one reluctant trip to church to discover that Jesus is the answer.
I could buy into the idea that community support and an outlet (singing) could help with the symptoms of the disorder, but I could not buy into the complete and total turnaround that seemed to happen for Icy.Before the last 30 pages, I enjoyed Icy's story.
However, the story is almost entirely focussed on Icy. I would have liked to gain a little more understanding of the supporting cast in this book.
It could have been better.
The build up of characters and plot was going well at the beginning.
It started to decline and get all muddled up when Icy was at the institution.
The characters, events, and relationships became so weak and confusing.
It could have been a good story.
She had good characters to work on, her writing style was potential, with natural humor ...
Or did she get bored with Icy that she wanted to just end it and start a new writing project?Can anybody tell me how this book got Oprah Book Club label?
This was a book club selection and I had the hardest time reading this book.
It literally took me WEEKS to read.
Ugh.I found the author annoying and the character she created.
For instance, I understand that the girl had tourettes but the way she would describe it bothered me.
Did she actually say the word croak or did she make a sound like a frog?
There are too many things I did not care for in this book or that I felt the author did a good job writing on and I feel like I just wasted too many weeks on this book.
Once you read this book, you will never forget it. Whenever I see a person reading this, I tell them how good & wonderful it is. It is so,so good.
After a fit of rage when Mr Wooten tries to rearrage the classroom after Icy catagorizes items by colors, she is sent to an institution for help.In the institution she doesn't fit in and isn't like other patients.
Icy tries to control her tics and urges by the doctor's advice.
Has a romance with a former grade school student which ends on a sour note.
She starts singing again and realizes her voice is a gift to God. With her gift she joins as many church choirs as she can and discovers her tourettes really was a blessing in disguise.
I know that this book is fiction, but as I was reading about Icy Sparks (the main character) and how she described what she felt prior to her "fits" and extreme anger, I wondered whether or not my son felt the same way before each tic episode.Icy is a smart, feisty girl and a fantastic character.
She's a young girl being raised by her grandparents in a small Appalachian mountain town in the 50's.
It's a wonderful book - you cry with Icy, get angry with her and for her and just want to reach into the book and give her a big hug.
Jonathan Friesen managed to become a school teacher and now writes amazing award-winning books, including "Jerk, Cailifornia." That book was the ALA Schnieder Family award winner for best book of the year with a character with a disability.Back to Icy Sparks, what I most appreciated about this book is the fact that instead of the usual tragedy of mean-spirited and horrible treatment of someone who is "different," Icy, at least from the adults in her life, is treated with kindness and undying attempts to help her and find a solution for her problems.
Ordinarily, I hate all literature, fiction, or story-telling about Appalachia.
Please spare me.But this book, while set in eastern Kentucky, isn't really about Appalachia.
It's about a girl who happens to grow up in an isolated community, surrounded by mountains.
But she's a special girl -- and she's got a secret.
Her secret makes her good at keeping the secrets of others, even when it's to her detriment.
How refreshing!If you want a fast read about a smart kid who is a misfit and doesn't really understand what's wrong with her, this book is a good option.
Gwyn Hyman Rubio’s beautifully written first novel revolves around Icy Sparks, an unforgettable heroine in the tradition of Scout in To Kill a Mockingbird or Will Treed in Cold Sassy Tree.
Curious about life beyond the hills, talented, and energetic, Icy learns to cut through all barriers—physical, mental, and spiritual—in order to find community and acceptance." (From Amazon)I enjoyed this novel as it did remind me of To Kill a Mockingbird and The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.
Granted, I listened to it and the narrator was okay until the end when Icy, the main character, finds God and there is all kinds of singing.
I have to finish it." So I slogged through and finished the damned thing.Icy is the main character, growing up in 1950s Kentucky, with Tourettes.
By the end, Icy is a pain in the ass (not that I wasn't as a teenager), and I had no interest in what happened to her.As you can see from my reading, I would say that this is not a good use of your time--for the beach or anywhere.
i often snag novels from the high school library when i am bored at work and since there isn't much to choose from i picked up icy sparks, mistakenly believing that a book on the oprah book club list must have some merit (after all, books i have loved for a very long time often end up on her list- east of eden, for instance).
i can't stand oprah, but seriously, there's no way that she actually read this and found it worthy to be on her list; she needs to fire some of her book-reading lackeys.
I REALLY liked the first half of this book.
The experience of a young girl with Tourrette's was fascinating and plausible.
The author's poor conveyance of dialect was distracting but forgivable, mostly due to the overaching sparkle of the main character's wit.
Ten-year-old Icy is precocious and interesting, if a little too perceptive and articulate to be believed.However, her transformation upon returning home (I'm being vague to avoid spoilers) defies her character and any patience the reader might have with the writing flaws.
After that point, my rating quickly spiraled downward.I'd recommend the first half of this book to anyone who is interested in what those with Tourette's experience.
One of the best pieces of odd story-telling I've read in a long time.
Take a little girl in the country who's trying to fit in as best as she can.
What you end up with is unusually unique story-telling style that is hard to find in NYC's "push the plot points" style fiction.
It's one of those remarkable novels that you're shocked and pleasantly surprised to find that some big NYC editor had the foresight to discover this.It's a fabulous journey into life of the non-ordinary.
I did not like this as well as I thought I should have. The characters are interesting and complete people both the bad and the good. The story is involving. Perhaps it is because I didn't really like Icy and that left me feeling ambivalent about it.
Hill kid in 50s Kentucky with Tourette's syndrome. Gotta figure this will have some lessons in it somewhere! Is that a twitch or just a southern church service?? :-)
Onvan : Icy Sparks - Nevisande : Gwyn Hyman Rubio - ISBN : 142000205 - ISBN13 : 9780142000205 - Dar 320 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1998

A slow beginning, a fast paced middle and a disappointing end.I'm not sure why this was on Oprah's book list (not that I picked it for that reason) - perhaps because it was loosely based on a girl with Tourette's Syndrome who had a morbidly obese friend, lived in Kentucky and found God...
I have nothing against all of these separately or bunched together but it made for a bland read when it brushed by topics that could have been more interestingly explored.
Wow I LOVED this book! I usually am in the zone when reading, but this was next level entrancement. Ok...but WTF was up with the ending? Was this book in the hands of a Christian publishing company or something? It was left a bad taste in my mouth. The rest of the book was amazing though and I highly recommend!
