https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815234.The_Napping_House
I love this children's short story. I love the little boy. The dog. The granny. The cat. The mouse. And I even like the flea. I love the words. And I especially love the awesome pictures.
Audrey Wood’s lyrical writing is at its best as she narrates how all the family members are sleeping in the house only to be awakened by a wakeful flea.
Another advantage to Don Wood’s illustrations is that his illustrations are humorous especially of the scenes where each family member bump into each other and their eyes popped out of their heads as they are surprised at being awakened by each other.
“The Napping House” is truly a masterpiece and because of Audrey Wood’s creative verses and Don Wood’s beautiful illustrations, this book is surely to capture the hearts of many young children.
Probably because my daughter insists on reading it every damn night.
Initially to me it just read like the "There's a Hole in the Bottom of the Sea" song, listing one thing after the other after the other.
All the synonyms give the text a lyrical quality which is fun to read out loud.
My daughter loves reading it.
Night.*yep, the wakeful flea is in every picture making it's way to the cozy bed in the napping house where everyone is sleeping.
Adorable and funny! The illustrations are superb and there is repetition, cumulative sentences, causes and effect, perfect! :)
This is an Anglo-Saxon version of sorts of the old Passover song, Chad Gadya.
In the Heeb version, God destroys the angel of death, who killed the butcher, who slaughtered the ox, who drank the water, that extinguished the fire, that burned the stick, that beat the dog, that bit the cat, that ate the goat.
In the Anglo version, everyone naps first, and then wake up to run and play, while the Jews conclude our endless seder with Chad Gadya, thus saving the nap as best for last.
Best 12 bucksI bought this. For no real actual reason. 12 bucks on kindle. Worth it. Kinda. Why does this need more words.
Minha mãe chegou com A casa sonolenta da biblioteca pro meu irmão. Uma fofura! Depois, lembrei que eu também já li esse quando criança.
One of my favorite childrens' books
There are many descriptive words and repetition sentences that sound like a poetry, which may assist children easily to remember the words, sentences, and the sequence such as the person who is in the cozy bed, the second one, and the last one.
The rhyme sentences can help children to recall and memorize the story and also helps to develop cognitive skills such as cause and effect in the story.Children will also like this book and repeat some sentences or recite them with me when I read the book.
While reading it aloud, I would emphasize the adjectives which describe the person or animal and the verbs that they will make children more concentrate on.
Age: This is a good primary age book because it has a mixture of small words like cat, dog, bed, for the younger age children however it also has bigger words that a 5 year old may not be aware of like dozing, snoozing, and wakeful.
Artistic elements: When talking about the artistic element of space in this book, in the beginning of the book both pages are used, for instances, the boy and the cat are on the left page and the granny, the dog, and the bed are on the right.
Young children’s book with lovely illustrations — just the opposite of Goodnight Moon (in that it’s waking up!). Deserves to be on any child’s shelf.
This is the Napping House, where everyone is sleeping.
First there's the cozy bed, followed by the snoring granny, the dreaming child, dozing dog, snoozing cat, slumbering mouse and finally, the wakeful flea.
And then the wakeful flea bites the mouse...
With easy to read, repetitive text and beautifully detailed, expressive illustrations, youngsters watch the ever growing pile of sleeping bodies move, change position and then slowly lighten and brighten as one by one, everyone wakes up.
As the book ends, the last page shows the napping house where no one is sleeping.
This book has a lot of repetition to it, which is perfect for 3-6 year olds.
The story is about a house that has a lot of nappers in it!
The text repeats itself each page, adding something new that is napping.
The artwork is fun to look at, because it shows the progression of the nappers.
The end of the book also repeats itself, except how everyone wakes up.
Each student could be responsible for one napper to draw and write about.
It's also a book that has a very simple main idea with many supporting details, so a teacher could do a graphic organizer and turn it into a summary.
This is a wonderful book! (I’m so glad I returned the board book the library first gave me and borrowed & instead read this hardcover edition.)This is a really fun cumulative tale that is very amusing, and the illustrations are superb, really special. I love the cozy bed, the snoring granny, the dreaming child, the dozing dog, the snoozing cat, the slumbering mouse, and even the wakeful flea, and the daytime nap and what ends the nap.This is highly enjoyable story to read aloud. Over and over.This is a nearly perfect book. The Woods team creates amazing books!
I thought this book was good I understand that its for beginning readers so theres lots of repetition in it. Im sure the younger kids would enjoy reading it because they would comprehend it.I would probably read it to my class and see what message they get out of it,if they even find one. Recommended to younger crowds(kindergarden etc..)
Next to "The Going to Bed Book", this is my favorite children's book that I read to Noah every chance I get. Even though I read it to him when I am putting him down for a nap, it talks about a house full of napping people waking up... maybe that is why he only takes 40 minutes naps!!! Oh well, still a great book with great pictures!
I thought this book was adorable and great for young readers! The pictures all coincided with the words so it was easy to follow, along with simple text on each page. I would recommend this book for any classroom because it will keep the student's attention and also keep them entertained with the illustrations.
One of the books most loved by my children when they were little. I love it too. The artwork tells the story even without the words, but of course the words make a beautiful poem, and it is a great book for predictions! The grandma's (mimaw's) face when she bounces is priceless. I am Mimaw -- that is what my 2 baby grandsons call me. Well one of them. The other doesn't talk yet.
My 3 y/o daughter loved this book so much, that not only did I have to read it over and over, but we had to "take turns" doing it. With the repetition of the words and wonderful pictures illustrated throughout, she was able to capture the story by memorization and tell me it in her own words. Too cute...and highly recommended!
I absolutely LOVE this book. It was the first children's book I knew I had to buy when I found out I was pregnant. The pictures are just as much part of the story as the words and the amount of times I read this as a child are countless. I highly recommend this book to any child, especially those children at heart :)
This is a major family favorite. My daughter's role is to always say "where everyone is sleeping". The illustration is gorgeous and the repetition is really fun and recitable for even the youngest ones.
This book is amazing and funny to read, the pictures were very interesting and the colors will capture the children's attention. It has repletion, and the words flow well and match the illustrations, great for reading at naptime or bedtime.
I love the snoring granny! And I love the slow build up to the wakeful flea, and the expressions on faces of the cat and the dog upon being landed on. Poor dog, he really gets clawed! A perfect storytime book.
This book with CD work like a magic trick to put my 3 year old nephew to sleep. I sing the song that tells the story of the book and he is usually asleep before the cat.
One of my favorite books.
This is one of those adorable board books that you love to read over and over because of its melodic rhythm. The only complaint is that it's too short!
Cute.
Cute and humorous! :-) I loved this sort of tale when I was a kid--one thing building upon another. It's so funny!
Story: 3 starsIllustrations: 3 starsCumulative story, in the style of House That Jack Built. Sometimes you need a flea to shake things up.
A snoring granny--- ha ha ha!
