https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/324326.Wife_to_Mr_Milton
Robert Graves is writing from the POV of a 17th century young woman, describing the sights and sounds and historical events she would have known, and not a word jars.
Some people object to the 'old-fashioned' English, and yet to my mind this is perfectly intelligible.
Then Graves gets into the head of a young woman, successfully.
(Or for that matter, female writers the converse?)Of course, if the book doesn't work for you, it doesn't.
But to my mind it's possibly the most realistic fictional treatment of the English Civil War era ever written.
Robert Graves has the rare talent of being able to write a character of the opposite sex convincingly (if you don't believe this is a rare talent, read a Victor Hugo or Jane Austen novel).This book is a fictional reconstruction of Marie Powell's marriage to John Milton.
If you want to read a book which isn't great but that presents a completely convincing heroine and vividly portrays England before and during the Civil War, Wife to Mr Milton is a good choice.
from the other side of the college must read list - graves is just the writer to make us feel the pain - all of graves' historical novels are pure pleasure (for me - anyway).

Here we have the story of John Milton's wife, how she was in love with a gambling cavalier, but came to be married to a cold, erudite parliamentarian with borrowed coat-of-arms.
John Milton is an interesting historical figure, being a great poet caught up in turbulent political events; yet we mostly see him at home, being cruel to his wife, who is sympathetic but ultimately insipid.
Again, there are some amusing period details: such as that Milton would use astrology to calculate his wife's periods of fecundity, and only then have sex with her according to the position of the planets.
A lively history book, or biography, would have done much better.
Robert Graves clearly did not like Milton. Very good historical fiction.
This book is actually difficult to read mainly because it uses so much of the old English language style in its narrative.
But just the same, the book's worth reading as it gives you a fair introduction to English history, especially those about Cromwell, Milton, the regicides (what a word!) and the restoration period during 16th century.
I'm also fascinated by Robert Graves' narrative use of the works involving mysticism (,e.g., how a woman's child would look like her beloved rather than her actual husband - check this out here!).
I found the book boring and difficult to read because of the language used, that of the 1600s.
John Milton was a difficult man to get a long with.
Milton was an ill-tempered, bitter, superstitious, misogynous, vengeful although intelligent man.He didn't listen to others; he thought he was always right.The novel is written in the first person with his wife Marie as narrator.
She does not love Milton but instead loves a man called Mun. If Milton were a more likeable character, the book may have been easier to read.
It is written by the same author that wrote I, Claudius, a very important book and TV serial on PBS.
Certainly not as good as the Claudius books by Graves, but still a very interesting read.
The narrative does use an archaic syntax which can feel a little jarring at times, but it also helps create the illusion that you are reading a genuine historical document.
Evidently this was a popular style for Graves as it essentially the same style used in I Claudius/Claudius the God. The characters as rather difficult to like, but do feel genuine and very human.
I think from reading reviews here, that this is a misunderstood book, but one that I am glad I have read.
My edition was another one - hardcover, 1944, Creative Age Press.This is a novel, but full of fascinating historical details - including much that doesn't get covered in basic history books, which have to smooth out all the bumps and odd protuberances. The English Civil War was not just Cavaliers and Round Heads - who knew?As for Milton himself, he seems to have been a truly nasty person, and we feel truly sorry for poor Marie Powell
This is probably the only book I've ever read by Robert Graves that I did not very much enjoy. Perhaps it was because of my ignorance about the private life of John Milton. Unfortunately for Graves, this opinion was general. The book was not a success.
A very silly cover-and-blurb, redeemed only by the inadvertent joy occasioned by trying to make Robert Graves sound like Jackie Collins. Worth your time and attention, though not quite as good as Samson Agonistes.
Fascinating, claustrophobic tale of Milton's England.
Good writing but a bit thick on historical detail. So much of the scenic accuracy bogs down the story, or so it seemed to me.
A beautiful but sad book.
Anything by Robert Graves.
set in the time of the English Civil War (my favourite historical era) a well written, historically interesting but ultimately depressing tale of the life and times of John Milton's first wife.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/14337698
