https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11413.Captivating
Just how much of this book actually comes from Staci, and how much she was forced to write by her chauvinist husband is unclear.
How about with the book's premise: we women, like Sleeping Beauty or Cinderella, are waiting for a man to rescue us from our sad-sack, self-esteemless lives.
By telling us that we are beautiful.I am not making this up.Basing our feelings of self-worth on a man's evaluation of our physical appearance?
I feel like the mystery of my female soul has just been unveiled!I'd much rather have my future husband save me with his salvific love than Jesus, with that whole death-on-the-cross-atoning-for-my-sin thing.
"WE SUCK AT UNDERSTANDING GIRLS." Growing up I thought because I understood the two concepts "Girls like bad boys." And "Nice guys finished last." I could fully understand the concept of the girl's mind.
I look around and I see more guys in my generation looking at porn and degrading women in their mind than I see men buying girl's roses and trying to win their hearts.
Most importantly start meditating on the fact that the heart of a women is a reflection of the heart of God.sincerely,a humbled Asian boy struggling to be a man of God
I have continued to read this book, against my better judgment, and I have become increasingly uncomfortable with it.
Oh and the audacity to ask God to show me how He loves me, come on!
These are the questions a daughter of the King should be asking, would you ask your best friend to prove his or her love for you?
You would love them so their beauty is evident to those you come in contact with… This book really irritates me…So as I am reading I am becoming more and more disappointed with the premise of the book.
When someone makes fun of this book, he/she are almost always referring to the part where Staci Elderidge talks about the three things that women desire--I can't even remember them all but...everyone makes this book sound fluffy.
But really, the heart of this book is talking about why we have such extreme women...we have "rollercoaster emotional women" and we have "hard as a rock emotional women." And both are unhealthy to the extreme because both have been hurt regardless of the way they are now.
The authors are blatantly ignorant of things they pretend they are experts on- such as art.
"Buy our guided journal we wrote!" Make your friends but the book too and read it together!
This quote drove me insane: "nature is not primarily functional.
Nature is primarily beautiful." It suggests that a woman's first job is to be beautiful and not functional.
Nature's beauty is within functionality, and we see beauty in nature because we recognize God's glory in it.
The authors claim that there is no blueprint for a woman right before they outline one.
This is just as bad as the male version Wild at Heart.This quote from the summary says it all really:The message of "Captivating" is this: Your heart matters more than anything else in all creation. The desires you had as a little girl and the longings you still feel are telling you of the life God created you to live. He offers to rescue your heart and release you to live as a fully alive and feminine woman. A woman who is truly captivating. I don't agree with any of it and this is definitely not what the Bible teaches!
I'm no woman, and so I have to take all of the "you" statements in the book as "women" statements.
But still, I think this book is insightful, and it helps to provide some biblical justification for many of the misunderstood characteristics, needs, and longings of many women.
Tell her what confuses you.
Tell her what makes sense.
Much of what I've read in this book hasn't been revelatory, but what is helpful is not the "what" about women's needs/desires, but the "why." Most men know that women want to be told that they're beautiful.
Although I made it all the way through, I gritted my teeth almost the entire time.Countless bad (and also secular) movie references aside, this book was filled with cliché after cliché about girls' dreams of being fairy tale princesses and the message that women are damsels in distress who need to be rescued by a man.
I felt the whole time that the Eldredges were hoping I would stumble upon some dark, long-buried, awful memory of how my parents abused me or didn't love me enough (which is not the childhood I experienced, by the way).
It negates the need to dabble on the hearts of wild, wilful, untameable women, simply decreeing that if you’re of that ilk, you’re broken, desolate and lost.Seduction, within a “Christian” sense, plagues this book; Women are to be pretty and needy and petty in the making to make them alluring, and being alluring, or captivating, is the key!
This book is targeted at lost women within the church searching for a sense of self, herein it becomes its own failure.What Stasi Eldredge sees as herself, whether as a woman or a creation of God, is not the essence that makes every other woman whom she is in her heart.
The author seemed to embrace the ideas of women as a companion, as beautiful etc.
although there were random quotes i liked etc, she bases her "truths" on movie quotes, movie examples, scripture taken out of context, and ..
a lot of personal experience...i mean, i wanted to like it.
but in the end, it really felt sad that someone would go to such lengths to publish man's wisdom under the guise of counsel.there were bits of ideas that did make sense, and i liked how she went into explaining woman as a companion as the ezer kenegdo but...
I was recommended this book by my twin sister. I wasnt exactly excited about reading it. However, once I started I couldn't put it down. Captivating isn't a self-help book, or a sermon; far from either. Instead, Captivating is a book about discovery. It sheds light into the areas of a woman's heart most people would dare not even look and gives the reader permission to heal wounds that one didn't even know were there. This book changed my life forever. All it took was the first page and I was hooked.
For every ten pages of lucidity and helpful ideas there's a hundred of horrifically shallow spirituality, Hollywood fluff worship, and truly absurd concepts of gender roles. Long review coming soon. Alas, books of this sort are assumed to be holy, and might be very damaging to the wrong reader at the wrong time.
This book restores my soul. As a woman it is too easy to become trapped & enamored by what this world deems "beautiful" & "worthy." I, too, have followed the empty train headed towards a wasteland of so called redemption--in hot pursuit of the shoes i simply MUST have--the makeup that promises to transform me--the sparkly adornments designed to make me stand out & shine! A refreshing reminder that there is more to a woman than meets the eye & our beauty has everything to do with how God sees us-not how we see ourselves.
I'm just not connecting with this book.
It comes off smug in my opinion, completely lacking the humility and honor I would expect in a book written for women who love the Lord.
I've been tempted to put it down several times, but I'm trying to continue to read it with an "open mind".Ok, 2 weeks later, I'm done trying now.
There are too many good books out there to be wasting my time on this one.
I got almost 1/2 way through, so I can't say for sure it's not worth your time, but I strongly suspect you can skip this one altogether.
This book is based on opinion and tradition, not the word of God. Which is fine, unless it's trying to pass off as some kind of Biblical book.Which sadly, it is.The only thing worse, is women everywhere are reading it and accepting it as TRUTH as opposed to reading it and testing it to what they know about their faith and what the Bible says AND DOESN'T say about women and gender. Pathetically, this is how the cycle continues.
examples of hardships faced and innocent dreams dying when girls' fundamental questions go unanswered from their fathers: 'Am I lovely?,' and 'Am I enough?' I've been going through life with my eyes wide open, but my heart quite closed off.
There were many key insights offered into how a woman should be focused on her one true Father, and operate in a feminine way in the world so as to make it (and her own heart) flourish.
READ WITH SCRUTINY AND DISCERNMENT, but know you can take good things.Interesting. Loaded with cultural outlooks.Talking with others I've decided I liked it because I could relate with it, but I don't think a girl who grew up in a different place could relate to it.
I feel as though I do better understand women (though perhaps not all of them...) and I plan on seeking to become more like the warrior that I am.
Yes, this book is intended for women, but it does not do a great job of making the genders equal.
Yes, some men are not present, but they too are battling themselves and their desires just as women are.They use a lot of scripture to support their points - this is good.
I read the first two chapters last night and it has a lot of good things to say!After finishing, I can honestly say that this is one of the best books I've ever read about being a woman and how women were created and understanding the soul of women.
I think every woman needs to read this book (18 is a good point, or 16 for those who are mature enough to handle talking about marriage subjects) and every man should as well (20 and up).
I posted chapter by chapter statuses if you are interested but essentially the main point is that femininity is not bad or a weakness but just another way of expressing God's image, he created male and female in his likeness and both are necessary in his kingdom.
You feel it, don't you?" However, everyone hurts sometime so maybe if you are struggling right now, it'll work for you?In conclusion, if you understand that God created male AND female in his likeness and that femininity and beauty are just as inherently valuable as strength and masculinity and that all can and do play a role in God's kingdom, you've got the valuable bits out of this book, spare yourself the rest of it.
For one, I think there's a delicate balance between esteeming a woman for what God made her, and exulting her beyond what's right.
But as for actually unveiling a woman's soul, I think they hit that pretty straight on.
While other things seemed far-fetched and some a little weird, they described the essence of a woman's soul pretty well I think.
It's good to understand your feminine nature and discover what God truly designed us as women to be, but we don't want to worship ourselves or anything like that.
I've lost weight and feel attractive.I will leave this review up here in spoiler tags, but I ask you keep in mind: I was a young woman, very inexperienced, following a whole different culture when I wrote this.
In this book, John and Stasi acknowledge the way that women feel and encourage them to rise above it.
Women are meant to be beautiful, to be loved and to love, and to be involved in adventure and the way this can be achieved is by a meaningful, intimate relationship with the one who started it all: God, the ultimate lover.What I Liked:When I first started this book, I couldn't get into it.
There is one chapter that starts out talking about a little girl's dream birthday (the girl was even named Carrie).
It pretty much described how I aways felt on my birthday as a little girl - at that point, I realized that this book was maybe not directed at me.
I often felt like I already have what the author and his wife her describing as every women's wish.But that doesn't mean I didn't take something from this book.
One of my friends recommended this book to me. It's a faith-based book. I was weary, but luckily it turned out to be Christian without being "here are the 12 rules to follow to be a good service provider to men." Let's just say it made me rethink my whole "cold bitch" lifestyle. I would recommend it to some of the women studio execs I've known.
The authors addressed the deep disappointments/wounds we develop in life, ways we cope with them, why they occur, and how to find true healing in the deep, deep love of God. These points especially reached into my heart as I read them on the heels of a long and disappointing job-search.
One such point that I couldn't buy in Captivating was the supposition put forth by the authors that Satan has a special hatred for women in particular, since they are a creation of beauty.
This book is absolutely amazing!
One of my guy friends didn't like it so much--maybe too soft--however you can interpret that word...but I think it's great!
It talks about a woman's journey in this world- but in a greater, purposeful perspective.
It has elements of romance, adventure, childhood, and more.
:) This is a look at how God made women unique and wonderful-in His own image (not that He's a girl).
I recommend you give this book a try.
If you were like me, you won't be able to put it down.
A room painted bubblegum pink, with floral border wallpaper, sporting an immense collection of plastic unicorns is the best way to imagine the tone of "Captivating." It is written by a husband and wife team. I hate it when men try to divulge the secrets of the woman's heart to women, but the wifes commentary was even more repugnant (maybe because she should know better). The premise of the book was worthy, but ended up completely botched by the authors.
It wasn't so captivating.
I have mixed feelings. Some of the book was excellent and impactful. Other parts didn’t quite line up with Scripture.
This really made you look at God and Jesus in a different light, and it made me ponder things I never did before (especially about Adam and Eve).
One thing I didn't like was how Stasi broad-brushed women as little girls who twirled their skirts and dreamed of being princesses, put mommy's pearls and heels on.
bringing up pop culture women like Eowyn from LOTR, and referencing true warriors like Joan of Arc. I highly recommend reading this book with someone else to bounce ideas and thoughts off of, because if I was just reading it by myself some of their ideas would really put me off.
