https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238713.The_Wilderness_World_of_John_Muir
One of my favorite quotes is from John Muir.
And though I love the quote, I had never read anything by Muir.
My favorite story from this collection was "Stickeen," the tale of Muir, a little dog, and a day on a glacier.
Another of his quotes, "In God's wildness lies the hope of the world - the great fresh, unblighted, unredeemed wilderness.
320 - compulsory recreation for the masses!Now on to "The Wild Muir." I can't wait...would like to read it while deep in the back-country of Colorado but will probably have to settle for some Texas Wilderness.
(Possibly he had never encountered man, up on these heights.)"I was afraid to run, and therefore, like the bear, held my ground...How long our strenuous interview lasted, I don't know..but in the slow fulness of time, he took his huge paws down off the log, and with magnificent deliberation turned and walked leisurely up the meadow...His bread is sure in all seasons,...tasting each in turn as if he had journeyed thousands of miles...to enjoy their varied productions"(131).
Great account of canyons, even knowing someone is ten miles away.
One of my favourite books of all time.
All he took with him were a few weird and wonderful inventions created in isolation in his basement during the early hours of the morning (before heading out into the fields each day).
Despite his family's harsh predictions, these inventions were surprisingly well received by the outside world and a truly astounding life path ensued.Reading this book one gets the sense Muir could have easily succeeded in any field of his choosing (he even ran a successful factory for a period).
I can highly recommend that you read this book.
"I have a low opinion of books; they are but piles of stones set up to show coming travelers where other minds have been, or at best signal smokes to call attention.
No amount of word-making will ever make a single soul to know these mountains.
As well seek to warm the naked and frostbitten by lectures on caloric and pictures of flame.
One day's exposure to mountains is better than cartloads of books.
A few months ago, we took a picture of our family in front of the Great Grizzly at Mariposa Grove.
Heartbreaking to finish this book after hearing today that Yosemite burns.The man can turn a phrase!
From lovely alliteration, “...groans and tears, mingled with morbid exultation; burial companies, black in cloth and countenance; and, last of all, a black box burial in an ill-omened place, haunted by imaginary glooms and ghosts of every degree,” to poetry-in-prose, “Like the bluebirds they dared every danger in defense of home, and we often wondered that birds so gentle could be so bold and that sweet-voiced singers could so fiercely fight and scold,” and sermon, “...in one moment that cheerful, confiding bird preached me the most effectual sermon on heavenly trust that I had ever heard through all the measured hours of Sabbath, and I went on not half so heart-sick, not half so weary.”I have dozens of dog-eared pages longing to be quoted, but instead I’ll just urge you to read it, especially the last chapter (The Philosophy of John Muir), repeatedly.
And now..."The mountains are calling, and I must go."
No book and no man has so enriched my already deep love of nature like Muir. He makes me crave to learn more, and appreciate more, the beauty in our world.
I love John Muir for his brilliant mind, his deep respect and awe of God's creations, and his beautiful words.
(Even I, a fan and tree-hugger, did not read the last section because I was done with all the description without much story by then.)Favorite parts:The first section reminds me so much of the Little House books.
I love John Muir!Often I thought I would like to explore the city if, like a lot of wild hills and valleys, it was clear of inhabitants.
p105How deep our sleep last night in the mountain's heart, beneath the trees and stars, hushed by solemn-sounding waterfalls and many small soothing voices in sweet accord whispering peace!
Sometimes his book read like a 3 when he was describing bird or tree species, and other times it read like a 5 when when describing his growing up, his inventions, the first time he saw Yosemite valley, or some of his other adventures. Regardless he was an extraordinary man who led an extraordinary life and seemed to connect with the wild like no other.
I didn't know much about John Muir before I read this, just that he had something to do with the Sierra Club, and so must've been an outdoorsman.
What an fascinating guy!
As a young man, he was an inventor.
Among other things, he made an alarm clock that tilted his bed and dumped him on the floor!
He walked from Wisconsin to Florida, he regularly camped with almost no supplies--certainly not the things we think of as necessary for survival today.
This is an exotic American adventure story written by a man who was truly the hero of his own life.
Muir's almost shocking commitment to the wilderness is incredible to read.
Nowadays, we would probably call someone like him crazy; but in reading his thoughts and observations from years in the woods, it's hard not to wonder if we're the crazy ones for living so much of our lives in ignorance of nature.
If nothing else, reading John Muir will tempt you with the call to get out into the wild: "Climb the mountains and get their good tidings.
Nature's peace will flow into you as sunshine flows into trees.
John Muir's writing is exquisite. His descriptions of Nature and natural phenomena are so passionate that you can't help but take more notice of the world around you and go out to enjoy what Nature has to offer.
Putting my reaction to this book into words that give it justice is difficult when it contains so many of my feelings toward our society's lost connection with nature.
As humans we are connected and affected by mother nature more than we may realize, and need her therapeutic care to deal with the vicissitudes of life.
If you can't take my word for it, take John Muir's, a true mountaineer, "Tell me what you will of the benefactions of city civilization, of the sweet scrutiny of streets - all as part of the natural upgrowth of man toward the high destiny we hear so much of.
Auroras as "soldiers?" Examples:“How long these glad, eager soldiers of light held on their way, I cannot tell…” “My bed was two boulders, and as I lay wedged and bent on their up- bulging sides, beguiling the hard cold time in gazing into the starry sky…”“had these lively auroral fairies marched across the fjord on the top of the bow instead of shuffling along the under side of it, one might have fancied they were a happy band of spirit people on a journey.”I think he loved nature and trees and wilderness so much, and it was such an unusual state to be in his time, that he tried too hard to appeal to his contemporaries.
John Muir's writing is lovely, very poetic AND he was long-winded. I consider him the Charles Dickens of nature writers. I got bored reading page after page of excruciating details about trees and birds. I finally skimmed the book and read the writings that most appealed to me based on the chapter introductions. My favorites were his story about Stickeen the dog as well as his general conservation philosophies included in the end.
I really liked the short story format of this book. I was really struck by all of the high risk adventures that JM did in his days. There were also a handful of questionable decisions he made with others lives at risk that was concerning. His observations and ability to describe nature took me outdoors every-time I cracked open this book.
A great book that tells the story of John Muir and how he grew a love for the great outdoors. Though this book you get a grasp of how Muir lived his life and an understanding of how he perceives the world and it’s mysteries.
I really enjoyed reading this book. All the Adventures that he went through was exciting to read about. I wonder if he ever had the thoughts of giving up on any of them. Or if he ever got scared that he was going to die. I really like this book.
just a delightful read
Perhaps the most interesting Biography I ever read. John Muir was fascinating.
4 1/2 stars. It was a thrill (and a little dismaying) to see our formerly pristine wilderness through his eyes and his words. I especially enjoyed reading about his childhood.
Paused reading this book for a while, but finished yesterday! I would love to have a cup of tea with Mr. Muir
Looooved this book. It makes me want to hike all the trails and walk about in storms.
These are the writings that inspired Theodore Roosevelt to start the national park system. An important collection that will have you looking at nature - and man's mishandling of it - in a new way.
Also, I want to point out that I did not pick up this book because I was looking for poetic passages or a wonderful world of imagery as some may wish.
No, what I am looking for in this book is to absorb the experiences and naked adventures of Muir through his eyes.
I look at it more as a tool of motivation for wanting to get out there; to embrace a fundamental need, an inner desire to be, as Emerson put it, "one with nature."I am hoping to get out of this book what I thought or needed, a story to inspire me on the path of further understanding, appreciation, and enlightenment.
His influence on the park casts as long a shadow as any of the great rock formations that tower above the beautiful valley.Ironically, he is quoted in this book as saying, "I have a low opinion of books; they are but piles of stones set up to show coming travelers where other minds have been, or at best smoke signals to call attention." Yet this collection of his writings from numerous books shows us the heart and the spirit of this man and his love for the wilderness.There is an exuberance that emanates from his accounts and encounters with nature - be it a bear, a squirrel, a bird or a tree.
John Muir is a maniac and I could not put the book down during a few of his stories of derring-do, especially the final one exploring the glaciers of Alaska with his little dog by his side.
I recommend this to anyone with even just a fleeting interest in John Muir (I wanted to learn more about the Sierra Nevada after reading Wild, which is how I ended up with this, and while this book covered a lot more than just the Sierra, I am glad I read it).
Though I was a little suspicious of a collection of his work (why not just read the original Muir instead of some random person's perception of what parts of it are good?), Edwin Way Teale did an excellent job of picking lovely pieces and introducing them in a way that made me want to learn more and more and more.
How can I not fall in love with a person who loves the world so much?
And this is a great collection of a variety of his work.
Lovely.
This anthology of Muir's writings is a great choice for a first look at his works.
The editor selected a fantastic group of passages, and then arranged them according to a timeline of Muir's life.
The result is that you get a great read, and also learn a lot about Muir's life and development as a person, naturalist, and writer.I bought the book to read as I was prepping for a trip to Yosemite, and also read it while I was there.
It is wonderful to know that we can still look at Yosemite Falls or El Capitan with the same sense of wonder as Muir!
muir's writing can sometimes be a little cheesy.
he sometimes sounds like he is trying to sound like emerson too much.
the impressive thing about muir is how he felt and what he did.
emerson, thoreau, london, kerouac, or any of those boys look like candy-asses in comparison.
we are all candy-asses in comparison.
he was supposedly a much more gifted orator than writer, which does seem to be likely due to his obvious passion for what he was talking about.
but unlike most wilderness writers, muir walked the walk as well.
This is a great book about a quirky, brilliant, and genuine lover of the natural world.
I love this book because it is full of wide-eyed wonder of Creation, as well as insights into the workings of that Creation.
This book helped me to realize the beauty of everything around me and to be positive and honest about what being in nature does to my soul.
Muir has no apologies for his complete lack of concern for money or the need to 'get ahead', and instead champions a simple life of joy and awe, as well as responsibility and passion for protecting wilderness and educating people by simple exposure to natures immense beauty.
