https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73810.Charlie_and_the_Chocolate_Factory_and_Charlie_and_the_Great_Glass_Elevator
Charlie y la fábrica de chocolate 4/5Charlie y el gran ascensor de cristal 2/5
I think one of my favorite parts of motherhood is revisiting favorite books and sharing them with my kids. This is definitely one of those cases. We're reading Charlie and the Chocolate Factory for a bed time story for two reasons. One, I find it incredibly sad when my children think of the movie before the book in cases like this. Two, it's the best door into the universe of whimsy and fun that is Ronald Dahl.
4* voor het (geweldige) eerste boek en 2* voor het tweede boek dat helaas nogal tegen viel.
Great book to read with your kids! We only did the first half (Chocolate Factory) not the Great Glass Elevator. We will read the rest at a later date. My kids loved it, they range in age from 11-4. They loved the ending
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory :"But there was one other thing that the grown-ups also knew, and it was this: that however small the chance might be of striking lucky, the chance is there. The chance had to be there."I love Charlie and the Chocolate Factory with all my heart, so when I first got this book back in 2014, I was as happy as Charlie when he got his Golden Ticket.Re-reading this book as an older audience, it felt different. I still got those happy feelings of a child throughout th
The chance had to be there."I love Charlie and the Chocolate Factory with all my heart, so when I first got this book back in 2014, I was as happy as Charlie when he got his Golden Ticket.Re-reading this book as an older audience, it felt different.
I still got those happy feelings of a child throughout this whole book, but there were some little details that I paid more attention to.
Mr. Willy Wonka, our super weird yet funny chocolatier, love him always!Overall, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory was such a wonderful re-read.
Amazing adventure for young and old. The 1971 film with Gene Wilder based on this book is a perfect representation of this book but I still enjoyed reading the original. The oompa loompa songs in the book are much longer and funnier in the book. There is a whole space thing at the end of the book that is a bit odd, but still fun. I can see why they would cut all that out of the film. I will hold on to this book for my daughter to read when she grows up.
Very fun and silly series. I really enjoyed it.
First Graders might be the best possible audience for this book. Especially if you have a group of them who love to make up accents for each of the characters! Loved it.
In the uproarious sequel, Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator, Willy Wonka whisks Charlie and the entire Bucket family right into space on an intergalactic elevator joyride and another wild fantasy adventure.ReviewBerturut-turut baca karyanya Roald Dahl.
Lebih murah sewanya ketimbang minjam Charlie and the Chocolate Factory dan Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator secara terpisah :)).Jujur saya lebih dulu mengenal Charlie dan Willy Wonka lewat adaptasi filmnya di tahun 2005.
Saya suka banget sama filmnya dan pengin baca bukunya sejak lama.Di antara kedua cerita yang ada di buku ini, saya rasa Charlie and the Chocolate Factory lebih menarik ketimbang Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator.
The purpose was to feel the difference of reading this book on 8 and 16.
The main character; Charlie Bucketis a boy from poor family who really wants to explore Willy Wonka's chocolate factory.
Charlie and other kids head to factory with Willy Wonka.
Later in the book, Willy Wonka helps Charlie's family to live in better life.
When I was 8, I just thought the story was interesting, because of the strangeness in the factory and Willy Wonka's peculiar personality.
Kids that had similar age as Charlie all got kicked out, because of the lack of patience.
Just read this book which includes both Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, (5 stars) and it's less popular sequel Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator (3.5 stars) out loud to the kids.Both stories are classic Dahl, though Charlie and the Chocolate Factory is undoubtedly the stronger of the two.
From offering his views on TV expressed through the character of Mike Teavee in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory to his clever and kooky political satire in Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator.I would recommend this book to any young reader who enjoys strong, fun characters and especially those who are already a Roald Dahl fan.
The first one, "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", is probably familiar by book or film to most readers.
The second one, "Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator", was unfamiliar to me and to perhaps many other readers.The first book, "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", is a great story.
I cannot speak of the version made by Johnny Depp, as I have not seen that one.The second, lesser known story, was in my opinion, not as good.
The second story is just not as good as the first one.
Imagine going to a chocolate factory all day long with a very "interesting" owner that has one or two tricks up his sleeve.
Of course I am talking about "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory".
One of the best books in the world.
This book is about a young poor boy named Charlie, duuuuuuuuuuuh, and his journey through Willy Wonkas Choclate Factory with a bunch of really spoiled kids that end up disappearing one by one.
Follow Charlie through this tasty journey full of magic, singing Oompa Loompas, and Choclate waterfalls to the surprising reward at the end.
Read to find out.
I heard this story from my friend many years ago[ movie ] .
Cause I very busy,but when I came to USA.
The kid in my host family show the movie for me.
I like very much.It's colorfull, some time we had a dream look like this story.
And I want to learn English from this story.
My host family borrow from library for me.It's like turn to a child agian.Have a wonderful world in a while time.Can got something from this story for still a life.
And happy when know some word and can do,"enough"
Two well known stories by Dahl. I've seen the movie and thought that perhaps the books might be a bit darker and more adult. That would have been cool, but they weren't. They're okay children’s stories, the writing is mediocre and the stories are fun in a chocolate cake with frosting kinda way, mouthwatering to look at, good while you're eating it but in the end not memorable.
This is one of the only times I'll say this but the movie was better than the book. This was one of Rhod Dhal's first books. I think the director of Charlie and the Chocolate factory was better than the book. I wouldn't read it.
I read "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" to my two girls (7/5 yrs old) and we all loved it. Ronald Dahl had an extraordinary imagination--seriously love him!
The message seemed to be more one geared towards parents and a "don't raise your kids to be like this" kind of way with the cautionary songs that are sung, with the exception of maybe the chewing gum story and the girl and the medicine cabinet in the Glass Elevator.
However, I do know that one of my kids loves the first story (and thinks he's going to read the other one) so who knows.
Anyone who knows me, knows I absolutely love both movie adaptations of Roald Dahl's wonderful Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
It occurred to me a few months ago that this story was a book first before it became two movies.
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory: 5/5.
I love so much that both movies captured everything in the book.
This story definitely didn't have the same whimiscal feeling as "Chocolate Factory" does.
Nevertheless, being in Charlie's and Wonka's world is what I love about "Chocolate Factory," so I held on to that and finished the story.
I read the first story mainly to discover how the book varies from the movies.
Gene Wilder as Willy Wonka put a certain sarcastic spin on some of his lines, and the storyline with Slugworth trying to steal the Everlasting Gobstopper formula and Charlie and Grandpa Joe drinking the Fizzy Lifting Serum were movie additions, but those were both based items from the book.In the end, all Charlie had to do to become the winner was to not touch things, which seems a bit anticlimactic, but perhaps is good commentary on children.The second story, the Great Glass Elevator, is mostly just very silly.
I am embarrassed to admit but this is the first Roald Dahl book that I have read.
The book was very similar.
Our discussion led us to talk about the 5 children who won golden tickets and their character traits.
We discussed which trait we might have.
Sadly, and somewhat naïvely, the students felt if they had a big event in their life, like the other children in the book, they would change.
Unfortunately, I think changing our nature is a lifelong process.
Great discussion!Popsugar Challenge #30 A book with pictures
A Magical Adventure far better then the movies.Oh, Mr. Dahl, the wonders you did for children's literature.
As part of the Holy Trinity that was my childhood reading, you, Blyton and Rowling will always have a place on my bookshelf.Everything is perfect; the story, the setting, that characters, the songs....
There is so little wrong with it.
Although, I will admit to thinking that the 2nd book was weird AF, it still tells a tale that, to this day, never gets old.This might not be my favorite Roald Dahl story, but it's still one of the BEST DAMN BOOKS EVER PERIOD.
It's been decades since I read CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY and CHARLIE AND THE GREAT GLASS ELEVATOR. I slipped right into Charlie's world on page one and stayed there until I walked up to the store to buy a chocolate bar after finishing the story. (If Bottle Caps, or everlasting gobstoppers had been in stock, I would have bought official Willy Wonka candy ;). Roald Dahl- to this day- is one my favorite children's authors. I resonate with his characters easily. Off in search of snozzberries; I hear they're great in smoothies. #Juvenilefiction #Candy #classicliterature
I never read this as a kid. Adrian was totally enthralled and voiced lots of opinions about the spoiled kids and their overconsumption. It was fun to read and I guess that I appreciated the not-so-subtle commentary about colonial oppression (oompa loompas) and capitalism. But is it normalized if you don't actually discuss that it's exaggerated commentary? Trying not to despair over everything, so we're reading Gwinna next...
I thoroughly enjoyed  'Charlie and the Chocolate Factory ' .. throughout the book there are lessons to be learned from the downfall of each child and the songs that the Oompa Loompas sing contain some very important morals.. and Oh, by the way, I would strongly recommend eating chocolate while reading it..I personally didn't like  'Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator'  all that much..
This was an interesting adventure story, with a few scary-ish parts. Mr Willy Wonka accidentally brought Charlie and his whole family into orbit, and they have to find a way back to the factory - before it's too late! Lots of super long songs included! I think this was a good book, but I don't think this is one of the best stories Roald Dahl wrote.
It's a fun silly easy read. Having said that it took me 3 months to finish the book because I felt like such a drag after some point. Well I may have felt that way probably because I'm too old for the book? But I generally enjoy reading children's books but this was a let down for me. I guess had so much higher expectations for a better story.
These books were some of my childhood favorites so when I started reading with my 10 year old each night we decided to read this bind up of the series. He enjoyed it and I loved revisiting it. I realized I had forgotten some of the details.
So this edition has both Charlie and the Chocolate Factory and The Great Glass Elevator. I found Charlie and the Chocolate Factory to be preferable to Glass Elevator, which for me had one too many Cold War references.
Story of a small boy who owns a famous chocolate factory.
