https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351624.Have_You_Seen_My_Cat_
A young boy's cat is missing and he is asking several different people across the world if they have seen his cat. This book shows how many different kinds of cats there are around the world.
I love adding voices and sounds for each cat:) I also have the kids help me ask.
This is not  my  cat." This particular version of the beloved picture is awesome because it has the slide out page feature that not only shortens the book (which is definitely more appropriate for a board book) but also makes it more fun for the reader to see what's coming next.
The larger picture book version would be more appropriate for a read aloud session with a group of children, but this slide-and-peek board book version is definitely suitable for one-on-one reading time with your child.
I'm a fan of Eric Carle's art.
I have a few of his books, so I'm slightly biased.This book is about a boy trying to find his cat, and people from different parts of the world would show him a feline that is native to the country to see if that's his cat.
Example: India would be Tiger, Africa would be Lion.
Henry really liked this as he love anything animals, and we have a book called Animal Tales with 30 different animal sounds (another book I recommend, 4 stars), and some of the cat pictures are the same, so Henry recognized the pictures.
It was good just as is for a week or so, then we started to add a lot of things to the story because my daughter kept asking "why isn't it his cat" and "what cat is it" and things like that.
we read it like this :"This is not my cat it is a ____ cat because it _____" and she loves it, she now is a cat know it all and has amazed people with the facts she knows about different wild cats.
the only reason I took a star away is because of how simple it is and how we have had to add to it to make our daughter happy.
We all ove Eric Carle! This is a must have classroom addition. In this book a little boy is looking for his lost cat. He goes around the world, through different countries, meeting all kinds of people in various cultures. He also meets many types of cats, but they are not his. The illustrations are amazing, children can learn about the types of cats around the world, culture, and communities. Great book!
You have got to be kidding me. In terms of repetition, it's good for very small children and the illustrations are beautiful. But there really isn't any substance in it at all. The fact that the target audience is young, does not mean that you can throw basic story elements out of the picture.Well... I guess it's the illustrations that really move this story along. So if you have a child that can't read yet, it's wonderful.
My son picked this one from the library because he recognized the art as being similar to The Very Hungry Caterpillar. I'd say that's pretty observant for a 4 year old. He was excited to read it, so we did. "Let's put this in the bad pile." he said.
Very simple text, but I love the illustrations.
Can't count how many times I've read it with my kids.
Title: Have You Seen My Cat?Author: Eric CarleIllustrator: Eric CarleGenre: Predictable BookTheme: Animals, predictabilityOpening Line/Sentence: Have you seen my cat?Brief Book Summary: A little boy lost his cat and is asking people all around the world if they have seen his cat.
the boy finds a lion, a panther, a tiger, a cheetah, a bobcat, a puma, a Persian cat and a jaguar before he eventually finds his very own cat, with her kittens.
Yes, it's useful for categorizing and vocabulary and all that stuff, but it's also terrific fun, whatever your age.Professional Recommendation/Review #2:http://www.clcd.com.ezaccess.librarie...Marilyn Courtot (Children's Literature) Carle must be a cat fancier since he dedicates this book to all the cats in his life.
Okay, look, I know this is a book for kids who can barely even read yet.
But it had me at "Eric Carle" + "cat."It opens with a dedication "to all the cats in my life," for Pete's sake -- of COURSE I'm going to love this book.It's a simple story of a boy looking for his missing cat.
-- but none of them have seen his cat.Eric Carle is a classic.
I remember reading his books as a child, and the artwork is still so fun to look at as an adult.5/5 stars.
Adding this to my list of books for my own future child(ren).
A little boy sets out on a round-the-world search for his missing cat. Meeting many interesting people along the way, he sees many beautiful members of the cat family. There are lions and tigers and panthers. But where is his cat? With Eric Carle’s child-friendly, repetitive text and his singular paper-cut illustrations, this is a book for parents and children to treasure.Recommended.
Eric Carle always has amazing artwork in his books and I love it. The story is basically a boy looking for his cat and everyone keeps pointing him in the direction of a cat they have seen, but it's not his cat until the very end.
Another great Eric Carle book, it explores different types of cats, and cultures too.We've loved this book for a couple years now, the pull out tabs have been glued back in so many times, I've lost count.
This book is known and it's bright and beautiful illustrations. The audience is definitely for younger children but also introduces larger vocabulary words for Pre-K. The rhyming words in this book are fun and easy to memorize and identify.
A fun book about many different types of cats.
A child goes looking for it's cat and meets many others along the way. will he find his? toddler and up
Around the world looking for your cat and yet, so many other cats to meet! Colorful and delightful.
A very simple story but a good book for children that are going from reading basic picture books to books with simple sentences. Children can also learn about the many different types of cats.
This is a cute story and shows many different cats and why it's important to have details! In typical Eric Carle style the collage cats are beautiful!
I read this myself. I like all the pictures of the cats but some of ours are missing
Simple comparison story on finding your pet.
So many cats featured! A fun, predictable book that will get readers shouting along with you until the grand finale.
Scenes from all over the world and from all sorts of kinds of cats while a child tries to find their cat.
We've read the sliding version of this book, and found it more appealing.
Lovely pictures and endearingly worried kid.
The boy finds many different types of cats along the way and ultimately, finds his cat.Professional Recommendation/Review #1 (cut & paste): Moira Small (Books for Keeps No. 56, May 1989) Eric Carle has a happy knack of building curiosity and anticipation into his books so that every stylish, patterned page is looked forward to and enjoyed.
(PUBLISHER: Little Simon (New York:), PUBLISHED: 2009 c1973.) Response to Two Professional Reviews (3-4 sentences in your own words): Both reviews note that when the young boy finally finds his cat, he finds her with her kittens.
Lyra and V gave Athena this for Christmas. I am constantly asking where the cats are so it's good for learning a phrase she will hear a lot. ;)
Title: Have You Seen My Cat?Author: Eric Carle Genre: Predictable BookTheme(s): Pets, FriendshipOpening line/sentence: Have you seen my cat?Brief Book Summary: This book is about a little boy looking for his missing cat.
During the story he meets all different types of cats from all over the world.Professional Recommendation/Review #1: The Horn Guide Online K-3 Ready-to-Read series.
Review covers these Ready-to-Read titles: The Greedy Python and Have You Seen My Cat?.
In the book, the boy sees many different species of cats and learns that his cat is not the only type of cat in the world.
