https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1842.Guns_Germs_and_Steel
This is what happens when you take an intelligent person, and casually make a few mentions of a field of study they have no knowledge of.Mr. Diamond, NOT an anthropologist, takes Marvin Harris' theory of cultural materialism and uses it to explain everything in life, history, and the current state of the world.Materialism is a way of looking at human culture which, for lack of a better way to explain it easily here, says that people's material needs and goods determine behavior and culture.
“Why you white men have so much cargo [i.e., steel tools and other products of civilization] and we New Guineans have so little?” Jared Diamond is a biologist, who had a passion for studying birds, particularly the birds of New Guinea. But as he came to know and appreciate the many native people he met in his work, the question asked by a New Guinean named Yani remained with him. Why was it that westerners had so much relative to New Guinean natives, who had been living on that land for forty t
Jared Diamond – image from The GuardianGuns figure large in why some societies were able dominate others, but the development of guns was not a universal.
Diamond closes with a plea for history to be redefined as History Science, claiming that, as with many other "historical" sciences, it holds the elements necessary to merit the "science" designation.While I might have been happier if the title had been Guns, Germs, and Seeds, it remains a seminal look at the whys and wherefores of how some societies came to flourish, often at the expense of others.
Because we got efficient farming earlier than most other people, we also got cities and advanced technology earlier, and everything else followed from that initial lead we established.One objection you could make is that it wasn't luck, but rather that Europeans were more enterprising than people in other areas about finding good species to domesticate.
Basically, what he's saying is that pre-industrial people tried everything that could be tried, and when they didn't find anything good, it's because it wasn't there.
If the Western world can just arrange two or three more leaders like him, all of Diamond's data will hopefully come out the way it's supposed to, and the last few hundred years of Western history can be written off as a statistical blip.
Whether societies developed gunpowder, written language, and other technological niceties, argues Diamond, is completely a function of whether they emerged amidst travel-and-trade condusive geography and easily-domesticable plants and animals.I'm not sure I agree that why the Spanish obliterated the Mayans instead of visa versa is the most interesting question of human history.
this is a fascinating and worthwhile read.There's no doubt that the factors Diamond identified had some role in human progress, however, and if you can put aside the author's predisposition towards his own field and somewhat sketchy philosophical foundation, the book is a compelling and vivid account of what life was like for the earliest civilizations.
The one thing that struck me - and here I warn readers that I climb on my soapbox near the Marble Arch for a moment - is the abundance of corroborating evidence for human evolution and development that has solid artefacts and proof going back 40000 years and more by the most precise dating methods available by today's scientists.
This book proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that just because one has white skin, that this is not a determinant in the development of the individual and his/her peers as human beings.
Misleading! The actual title should be Germs, More Germs and a bit about Steel And Guns, but not very much on those last two really...I mean, we want to put Guns first because it's more attention-grabbing than Germs, but let's face it, this book is mostly about Germs. Why has no publishing house knocked down my door trying to obtain my book titling services yet?!
This may be the most over-rated book in the history of book rating.
The point he is making is that we in Western Civilazation haven't built skyscrapers, made moon landings, mass produced automobiles, eradicated polio (or for that matter lived indoors with running water) while aborigines in certain remote outposts still hunt and gather in isolated tribes because we are inherently any smarter or more industrious than those individuals.
Of course he is mostly right, but why in the 21st century is this considered such a novel idea, and why does he have to be so BORING about it?
Don't believe the hype.
Diamond's point is that people living in areas with more domesticable animals (sheep, cattle, pigs, horses, etc.) gained an important advantage over people without them.For example, Native Americans had only three domesticated animals before 1492: llamas, turkeys, and dogs.
Why didn’t Cortés and his boys float up to the Mexican shoreline and find a bloodthirsty cavalry of Aztecs on mooseback, energized by the milk and meat of their plentiful herds of bison?” Diamond surmises that by the time most the large mammals in America had been digested into extinction by their hungry human friends, there was only one suitable candidate left for domestication: the llama/alpaca.
Jared sticks to the basic premise and plugs every hole in his argument so well to construct a magnificent explanation of the evolution of societies. What makes the book particularly good is the intimate hands-on experience that Jared has on the wide variety of fields required to attempt a book like this. The last four or five chapters start to get very repetitive, but except for that Diamond has taken a stunningly large scale view of history that keeps you enthralled throughout the 13,000 years we cover in this book.
And indeed, while I can't assess the validity of some of Diamond's scientific claims--though the continent axis theory falls apart the more you start to think about it, as does his failure to consider the impact of human alteration of the environment--I do know that I'd expect better historical argumentation from an undergraduate history major.
It's also worth pointing out that even if one accepts Diamond's thesis as persuasive, it doesn't actually answer the question he sets out to answer: why it is that European/Western societies set out to establish political and cultural hegemony over the rest of the world and were so successful at it.
In this case, he seeks to understand the plight of indigenous peoples and their subordination to European and Asian cultures in light of evolutionary pressures.
It seems like there's an interesting fact or point of view whenever you turn the page.The book seeks a complete explanation for the course of human history.
While we can see why, in broad strokes, European and Asian peoples might have overwhelming advantages in human history in purely biological and geographical terms, Diamond's analysis is of no help in answering historical questions that still might strike us as large, but come within the realm of European or Asian culture, instead of at the border with other peoples.
Stopped on page 88 for the time being, because, man, do people ever suck. We historically sucked. But since humans used to invade other humans' territory and do a lot of killing, at least things have changed now.Oh, wait.
That is, the different historical trajectories of Africa and Europe stem ultimately from differences in real estate.” - Jared Diamond, Guns, Germs, and SteelThis is one of those books that once you finish, you sit back and say "yeah, um, duh".
Look, certain civilizations came to dominate based on a couple random, accidental, and nonracially-based situations that combined to give the Eurasian people a slight advantage once these civilizations came into contact with each other.
Just because you get the basic premise of Natural Selection does not mean you shouldn't read Darwin's classics.
I'm not comparing Jared Diamond to Charles Darwin.
Diamond attempts to "provide a short history of everybody for the last 13,000 years," AND answer the question of why some cultures thrive while others perish or are conquered by others.
right now I can think of a country that is fast adopting isolationist policies, a country that is constantly looking to the past as "the ideal time," and whose politicians are doing all they can to turn back the clock, denying climate change, shunning education as "elitist," and deleting scientific data from public websites, all in an attempt to stick to the "old ways" that have been so profitable for so few.
The author uses very broad brush strokes to develop his main themes, both in geographical terms (he treats the whole of Eurasia plus North Africa as one single entity, which he then subsequently compares with the whole of the Americas, the rest of Africa and Australasia), as well as in temporal terms (the last two thousand years of human history are virtually ignored), and even in political terms (all societies more complex than an egalitarian tribe are defined “kleptocracies” managed by self-serving elites that extract tribute).
I definitely learned many interesting things and gained a better appreciation of geographical factors as significant determinants in the development of human societies.
Without overdoing the pun, everything by Diamond shines and shines. This is his greatest work. Occasionally in life you can feel a book shifting the way you see the world, shifting what you thought you knew about the world. There is a documentary made around this book, but read the book - trust me.
What a terrific book. 😍One sentence review: Human history is a function of geography. Detailed review to follow!
I have this awesome picture in my head in which Jared Diamond did not write this book.
He instead wrote a detailed, engaging account of the history of plant and animal domestication."But Rhiannon," you might say, "doesn't that remove his entire thesis, that geography determined just about everything about the course of human civilization?"And, I would respond yes, it does."And, isn't that kind of removing the whole book?"No, I counter.
Removing all of this would leave the only parts really worth reading: the stuff about plant and animal domestication.
In fact I ran right out and made my next store neighbor stop suckling her piglets!)But generally his writing is like his name, Diamond, hard, cold & brilliant, but not particularly gripping.Now Pollan (Botany of Desire,) not only has a more gripping style, but, to my mind at least a much more unique and interesting premise.OK so the idea of Co evolution is not new...
My first intention reading this book is not to seek knowledge in the real world, but to understand more about the setting/world making of fantasy fiction and science fiction.
In my opinion, this book has pristine description the 1966 revolution in Indonesia.2.
This book has interesting theory of the losing of China vs.
For people who had read Foundation, please try the epilogue of this book.There is at least one hint about a leading civilization destroying its own environment… but it is another story.
Mr. Diamond described this idea on his next book, Collapse.
It investigates why some native people thrived to become successful while others were slain by invaders or simply died out.More than just a book on conquests, Diamond has delved into the REAL factors - food production, tool production, trade and geographic region.
Once we look at a North-South axis we have changing conditions from warm climates to cold.Answers are sought as to why some advances made it to particular regions and not to others.
Does the ever-evolving landscape of wealth and production follow a cycle and are we dealing with a natural warming of the planet as well as a man-made one?
And yet you are left with that adage of chaos theory: everything on this planet happens for a reason and has a knock-on effect.Some of Diamond's ideas that I found and still find most astonishing include:The reason the continent of Eurasia was able to develop to a much more advanced level than the rest of the world, with its complex empires, cradles of civilizations, and large amount of farming and domesticated species was due to its latitude on a specific east-west axis.
هذه ليست مراجعة كاملة، وإنما هي رد كتبته على قراءة الأخ خالد المغربي، وقد طلب الأخ الكريم بلطفه نقل 
Maybe even partially correct, who knows, since we're facing the consequences of climate change on our civilization and they aren't good.
So who do we look to for models of how to change our food production?Anyway, the 2007 revision isn't different in any significant way to the 1997 version and you'll get a lot out of reading it.
I still think the 2005 PBS version is the easiest to absorb because there are no awful dreary tables and the pretty pictures are pretty.
Plus, let's face it, Peter Coyote sounds great.But do absorb the information somehow.
(And therefore I would highly recommend 1491 to anyone interested in learning about the latest and greatest developments in knowledge concerning the early history of the Americas.) This seed of doubt concerning the accuracy of Diamond's assumptions about the Americas prevented me from fully appreciating what he had to say about the histories of the other continents, of which I am even less familiar.
While humans could adapt to environments from desert to jungle, their plants, animals, inventions, & diseases often couldn't/didn't.Different environments also slowed humans so not only weren't inventions spread, but there wasn't the pressure to develop/adopt new methods or die.
Australia, New Zealand, & Tasmania were all distinct from the rest of the world & even each other.So, the answer to the central question is civilizations developed differently due to their environments:1) The number & variety of plants & animals that were available to domesticate.2) The ease of diffusion & migration within the continent & 3) between continents.4) Continental population size.He really should add a 5th - plain luck.
(To say nothing of the historical errors in that chapter as well.) And then there's smaller things like the series of photographs of people, all not white and mostly wearing indigenous clothing and unsmiling expressions, which is totally unnecessary - if Diamond's "objection to such racist explanations [of sociocultural differences vis-a-vis a western capitalist definition of success] are is not just that they are loathsome, but also that they are wrong," then what the fuck are these pictures doing in here (p.
Compare Eurasia and Australia, for example, and you find that when humans evolved to the point of beginning agriculture, Eurasia had dozens of varieties of natural grains that could feed humans and a dozen potential draft and food animals.
Eurasia developed settled agriculture, food surpluses, dense populations, cities and complex social organizations.
The virulent types of bacteria that developed among dense human populations in interaction with animal populations wiped out low-density indigenous societies on other continents when Europeans explored and settled new lands.
On the other hand, non-Eurasian germs brought back from Africa and the New World had little impact in Eurasia.
One could claim that this book is written for a wider audience and is meant to be more approachable and if so, Diamond makes some very bald statements which are very hard to substantiate in the absence of citations.
He makes a similar bald assertion towards the front of the book about the prevalence of race-based explanations for differences in development which again I know exist based on similar conversations but which I would never take seriously anyway, unless someone could show it to me using science.There is a lot of redundancy in the book.
He begins by surveying the natural differences among the continents, noting the variations in ecological and biological diversity as well as the orientations of the main axes of the continents, all of which had deep import for the evolution of complex human societies, namely the divergence of larger food-producing cultures from smaller bands of hunter-gatherers.As it turns out, the last ice age played a significant role in the course of our story.
In terms of their contribution to human depopulation, germs should clearly precede both guns and steel in the book's title.In sharp contrast with the heavily race-dependent, empirically vacuous speculations still in circulation, Diamond's core idea is that geographic advantage proved the decisive factor in shaping the major outlines of history.
