https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/231989.The_Wayfarer_Redemption
Well, obviously I didn't like the evilness and some of the killings.
And holy crow, Axis is so strong to not have killed an evil person.
It would have taken everything I had not to but there are reasons.
Important reasons!
I loved Faraday, Yr, Jack .
I can't believe I have owned these books for so long and just now starting to read them.
And this is the joy of reading, you can find what YOU love, get lost in a world and to hell with what anyone else thinks 😊 But, I'm also afraid of what is to come!
Happy Reading!
5 beautiful soul touching stars★★★★★  '"Sing well and fly high, and may nothing and no-one tear your feet from the path of the Star Dance again."'  Reread for the third time with my favourite ladies; Mary& Celeste and it just keeps getting better & better, seriously each time I read it I love it a tiny bit more everytime. When I die I want this series buried with my corpse. Please & Thank you.   'The circular pool contained no water; instead, to all intents and purposes, it contained
Okay so this book is actually so hard for me to rate/review, it was the first fantasy novel I ever read.
Okay so this book is classic fantasy at its best, I absolutely adore classic fantasy and this is my favourite classic.
Gorgrael our bad guy and the Starman our good guy, both of these beings are the most powerful to have ever been born not only can they use the Stardance but they can also hear the Deathdance (black magic).
She's my favourite character of the whole series, to be honest the only reason I'm reading these books again is for Azhure.
.Don't get me wrong, I like cheesy '80s fantasy movies as much as the next person.
In fact, I like both LEGEND and WILLOW.BUT.It's infinitely easier to forgive a several decades-old movie for being cornball, especially when you're watching (and laughing at) it with a bunch of friends then it is to forgive a book that's making your eyes roll back into your head.
Have Old Man return home from his year-long absence to discover Beautiful Princess swollen with child.If this sort of thing had been limited to the world-building and/or the plot, but had well-developed characters, I might have been able to handle it.But it wasn't.Without exception, the characters were woefully exaggerated in their behavior.Like when the king receives bad news that he must pass along to his council:
I realize it's early fantasy, and so I understand it's not going to compare to some of the newer fantasy books I've read.
My main issue is that I was bored for at least 80% of this book, and so I can't in all good conscience rate it higher.This story has all the usual fantasy elements.
Take this example:"I don't care if we listen to the words of a pox-ridden whore whose brain is riddled with the diseases of her trade!"Yea that's not an awkward thing to scream out in a perfectly serious situation...I'm very confused by the author's choice to write in third person omniscient perspective for the entirety of this novel.
Within the first 150 pages, this book contains:- An absurdly terrible prophetic "poem" about non-specific evil that must be defeated by a band of plucky heroes going on a quest.- An obnoxious heroine who inexplicably has 20th century values in her generically medieval world, who is also amazingly beautiful in that way that only fantasy heroines in terrible books are.- A douchey hero with an absurd name (to go along with the other absurd names in the book that sound like they were made up by a 4th grader).- A guy we're supposed to hate despite the fact that we are given no actual reason to do so other than that the aforementioned unappealing hero and heroine seem to.
As he slowly uncovers his past and the powers latent within him, he is joined by two priests, a pig herder, a white cat, and a lovely young woman named Faraday, who just so happens to be engaged to Axis’s greatest enemy; his half-brother, Borneheld.
The nature religion of the Avar, Icarii, and those Acharites who were converted reminded me vaguely of Wicca.The story was interesting, and the setting and characters were interesting.
I can absolutely see the nostalgic value of the books if they were one of your first forays into fantasy, as they were for my lovely friend Sarah.
I adored the magical and unique worlds she took me too in those books, and the fact the she was an Australian author reinforced my love for her work.
Sara was one of the first fantasy authors to write a bestseller in this country, and her books continued to be bestsellers year after year.
Many of us (writers, publishers and fans alike) still look to her as the role model for Australian fantasy, and her books still continue to have influence despite her passing a number of years ago.
I love this book, but I am always sad when I finish it, knowing that I will never read a new release by Sara again.

Re-read # (I have read this one so much through the years) (8/11/17):Still awesome.
This was one of the books lost in one of my many moves.
I do wonder where all these lost books are?
I have seen through this re-read how much my spirituality has evolved.
I read this one about 11 years ago for the first time.
It was nice to have this book be an old favorite to relax with.
There is suspense, wars and battles, romance, and magic.Azhure is awesome, and I have a big crush on her.Also this book is inspiring to me spiritually.
One of the best series I have EVER read.
They are all fantastic but this series is the best.
The character development is simply wonderful yet it reads like a fast paced thriller.
If you are a disillusionist reader like myself that can always predict the plot or the bad guy THIS SERIES is FOR YOU.
The number of plot twists kept me guesssing throughout and Sara Douglass makes you even feel for the bad guys.
If you like the good versus the bad, demons, angels, warriors, battles and a little but of sex rolled in you are good to go!
The cover of this book touts author Sara Douglass as Australia's best fantasy writer.
That may be true, but then I weep for the other Australian fantasy writers.
This book is weird, but in an embarrassing, not good way - with characters named things like "StarDrifter" and "WolfStar" (capitalization and spacing true to the book!).
Since I was given the first book in this series as a gift, you can't hold it against me that I went and read it.
I am deeply embarrassed and ashamed to admit that I continued to read the next three books of the six book series.
The Aussies know how to write books.
This is the second series I've started by an Aussie author, and within the first handful of pages it interested me.
I've seen a lot of really negative reviews of this one and I just can't jump on board with them.
It's a FANTASY story, of course it's not meant to be based in reality and of course you're going to have cliches.
It still makes for an interesting read in my opinion and I couldn't put it down towards the end.
this book is an adventure from start to finish. Axis the main character is a character in itself. in the begining it talks about the fued between him, his half brother and the rest of the kingdom. it also talks about the destroyer and how he came to be and from where in his mysterious birthing. this book is action packed and very explicit in the language and visual effects. readers under 14 shouldnt read this.
The Wayfarer Redemption by Sara Douglass is one of the better fantasy books I've read.
Often enough you cannot accurately judge a book by its cover, but in the case of The Wayfarer Redemption, I found myself constantly stopping in the middle of a sentence to take in the beautiful cover to help remind myself that nothing was taken for granted in the creation of this book.
Yet, I can't help but notice that it shares the some of the same fine qualities that makes The Lord of the Rings such a successful book.
This is another that was much beloved of many people and highly recommended. It just wasn't my "cup of tea". I didn't find it interesting and the writing didn't draw me in. I just didn't care for it.
On the other hand there were some key events that were very well delivered and then I couldn’t put my iPad.Book 1 of The Wayfarer Redemption was a good read, rest in peace Sara Douglass, but there a few too many flaws to give it a perfect rating and so deserves 4 out 5 stars.
It looks like I might be able to get a hard copy of book 2 in this series, which I look forward to reading.
I had actually read reviews before I picked up the novel, so I approached the reading of this book with a new mindset - and one I have to say I wasn't particularly enthused to have to use.
I find myself pulling back out into the real world in disgust, and skim reading the rest of the book just so I find out what actually happened for my own peace of mind, not because i am actually invested in the story.
It's about this guy, named Axis, who is the military commander for a religious organization.
Of course, the religious organization is trying to keep control over the world by pushing others out, while a big, bad meanie is trying to eat it.
The writing is pretty good, the storyline is a bit hack, but the writer keeps you guessing, especially when considering the relationships between people.
Apparently, whoever wrote that has never read Jordon.
But the writing is good, the characters have some depth, the plot is not as original as one would hope but ok.

On the other hand there are a lot of 'Mary Sue' types -almost every major named character seems to be super important for the world to survive and has some sort of special powers & of course, secret plot armour.Creatures/Races: Probably my favourite part of this book are all the different races, between the Icarii, Avar and Skraelings/Wraiths and other such creatures.
The 'bad' of course are much less-so, but hey, the Wraiths are essentially flesh-eating versions of the Warcraft games' wisps, so that's fun.Worldbuilding: Another aspect I'm enjoying, the bits of history and religion, the prophecies and 'ancient' sites of power, the Mother and the Star Gate.
Not to mention that she has all the elements of a good fantasy book including different races, a prophecy, and magic (though it’s a little different than many novels).Throughout the story there were plenty of little twists, so I didn’t find it to be entirely predictable.
It was great to actually care about some of the characters, or have feelings toward them (love, hate, etc) because that is what really gets me involved in a story besides a good plot.
She has quite an emotional journey throughout the novel trying to figure out her place in the prophecy and why she had to be chosen.Axis, Faraday, and Borneheld are the main characters in the story so far.
My general review of the Wayfarer Redemption series:A lot of prophecy-based fantasy I've read revolves around good overcoming evil, usually with relatively little in the way of serious struggle or loss.
The Wayfarer Redemption series blows that approach out of the water.These books are gritty, gruesome, graphic, intense and filled with content that will keep your blood stirred.
I've read few other books that do as good a job making sure the good side takes as many hits in the struggle as the bad guys do which makes it feel more realistic.
I have this rule.
I give a book 100 pages to get interesting.
If it doesn't, I put that shit down like a dog with rabies and pick up something else.
I gave The Wayfarer Redemption 100 pages, and it never got beyond standard fantasy drivel--there's a princess?
marrying a prince?
but she doesn't love him, she loves the Noble Male Knight Lead Character she can never be with?
GASP.
There's fantasy monsters threatening the kingdom?
SHOCK.
Noble Male Knight Lead Character is the only one who can stop them?
HOLY CRAP IT'S ALL SO FRESH.
I tend to stir clear of prophesy based stories.
And yet there are times when I put on a pot of coffee, deciding to sit down for a spell and read an epic fantasy (epic = 600+ pages + series).I wasn't disappointed with "The Wayfarer Redemption."What blows my mind away, are all the one star ratings on Amazon.
People will give Eragon five stars, but nit pick and quibble over brief passages on Sara's writing style.I must be the world's most forgiving reader.
Either that or I just great stories.
Enough where I'll allow authors the freedom to be less than perfect.
Too simplistic, awkward writing at times, unbelievable situations. I had such high hopes for this book based on the premise and the introduction. Sadly it just didn't live up to those expectations. I wanted to like it and hung in there through a lot of the stilted dialogue and the Mary Sue-like behavior of Faraday. In the end, I just couldn't do it anymore. Not one of my favorite books. Probably will abandon the series right here.

I seem to be in the minority on this one. I started reading this as a buddy read and everyone else in the group seemed to really enjoy it. For me it just didn't grab my attention and I can't say I really liked any of the characters. Faraday honestly just annoyed me and so did others but she was a big one.
Also called Battleaxe.
This book received my prestigious Hail to the King Award!Before the gushing starts, let's first have a serious moment. Words cannot express how much this book means to me. It is very special, because it was my first for a lot of things. It was my first long series, as well as my first favorite series, my first favorite author, my first Adult book, the first book I read with sexual content (even though there's not much), and more importantly, the first book I remember reading for pleasure alone
This series has stuck with me like no other book I've ever read.
(There are six books in this series, and every last one of them is at least 600 pages long!) I was dying to re-read so badly that it was all I could think about!
Reading this book again was like visiting a long lost friend!
I found myself smiling knowingly at many parts, and often gasping and exclaiming because I remembered who the unrevealed character (or secret) was.Reading this book the second time, I'm amazed at the significant differences in the characters.
While I found the book enjoyable to a degree, it did annoy me regarding its portrayal of 'good' girls vs evil ones, aka the whiny limp string noodle of a heroine and the evil, sexy, and powerful villain, and the apparent lust filled characters you filled it full of that were more than a little possessive.Plus there was that really awkward sharpening my knife villain sequences that made me facepalm more than a few times.
But. I have to admit the thing that broke any respect I had for you or this novel was the fact that the main heroine's purpose was solely to marry the man she hated to save everyone.
