https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13515.Pictor_s_Metamorphoses_and_Other_Fantasies
Livro que contem as ilustrações e o conto Transformações, vários poemas e um posfácio que conta parte da vida de Hesse, incluindo trechos de cartas, inclusive uma em que o próprio Hesse atesta a genialidade do Sr. Jung com quem ele se consultava bastante em tempos de escrever o Sidartha e esse conto dual sobre Piktor.
The symbolism was sometimes elusive for me.
This collection of short stories have been called fairy tales, but moral fantasies is a better description for them.
One story took place in a country called Normalia.
It had started off as a mental institution and as it got over crowded it simply kept growing until it was the size of a country.
I found it also a fitting description of North Korea.
A couple stories were romances.
A couple were about attempting to become a great artist.In another, a man has a discussion with his stove.
Great book but it helps to be open to the symbolism; in some stories more than others.
Hesse fans will enjoy these short stories, fables, and indeed, fantasies that non-Hesse fans will find either hard to understand or too whimsical to bother trying.
And again, Hesse fans will savor the psychological playfullness that Hesse does so well.This book is no Siddhartha, Demian or, my personal favorite, Steppenwolf.
For one thing, it is a collection of short stories, not a novel, and thus cannot, by limitation in length, delve into the deep and often dark abyss of the human psyche as Hesse does in his novels.
However, Hesse fans will definitely want to add this book to their collection.
I was surprisingly non-plussed by most of these stories.
Even the titular tale, Pictor's Metamorphoses seemed unremarkable.
"Hannes" is the tale of a man who was always thought to be mentally handicapped and is therefore ridiculed to the point that he prefers the company of animals.
Not to give anything away, the townspeople come to learn before long that his lifestyle has lent him an unusually peace and kindness, and he is thus able to help them overcome personal strife.The Wicker Chair story is also cute and quite nice.
I have really enjoyed some of Hesse’s novels, which lead me to “Pictor’s Metamorphoses and Other Fantasies”, although I am not big on short stories.
Hesse’s style shines through each of the stories here but some pieces like “Lulu” are a bit arduous and may require a second reading.Two of the nineteen stories in this collection left an indelible impression on me.
“Bird” a story of a magical bird unique to a small town, and the challenges the townsfolk face when a bounty is placed on its head.
And “Report from Normalia” a story of a utopian society that was birthed out of an Insane asylum.
Every time I read one of Hesse's works, it is a profound experience. Seriously, every single work of Hesse I have ever read has been either a spiritual awakening or a psyche shattering eye opener. I love the man, for his writings if for nothing else.
3.5/5 STARS
Uneven collection but some gems of historical Hesse.
Piktor's Metamorphoses is a fairy tale written an illustrated by Herman Hesse. It's the sweetest story ever.
"He longed only for the feeling of that vibration, that power current, that secret intimacy, in which he himself would be annihilated and perish, would die and be reborn... made life bearable, brought something like meaning to it, transfigured and redeemed it" The PainterOf the short stories the best are: "The Man of the Forests", "The Dream of the Gods", "The Painter", "Pictor's Metamorphoses", "Nocturnal Games", and "Christmas with Two Children's Stories". A couple of the stories felt incomplete though.
A soothing fairy tale, a pleasant welcome into Hermann Hesse's mind and soul.
Not as deep/philosophical as his other works
A breezy collection of light fantasy stories from a typically heavy-handed spiritual explorer, most of these tales feel undercooked (most likely intentionally) compared to Hesse's other works.
I agree with Hesse (and many others) on the cultural significance of fairy/folk tales, but it's hard to craft short versions of them that don't feel trivial.The highlights are the quietly powerful Jesus-ish allegory "Hannes," "The Painter," "Bird" and "Two Children's Stories." I also strongly identified with the 1st of his "Nocturnal Games," as it's an anxiety dream I've had many times myself.
Hermann Hesse is my favourite writer but this just disappoints me.
I love Demian and Steppenwolf because of the intertwining of fantasy and reality and somehow implicitly shows the genuine emotion in characters, the obsolete writing allow the readers to interpret them differently and also personally, since some intimate emotions seems easier to attach to it.
But Pictor’s Metamorphosis seems to me nothing special but just short stories with predictable plots.
There’s some pretty good stories but just one or two and in just overall this book doesn’t really left me a great impression.
I guess only those more famous books are his masterpieces others are just too ordinary.
Inspired and influenced by classical German folktales, Hermann Hesse creates a world of child-like fantasy.
Some of these stories borrow directly from these folk classics, which Hesse read much of as a child.
However, each one has a moral of universal appeal to share.One story that impresses is Hannes; it is a story of two brothers, born from different mothers.
These two brothers can not be any more different and are modeled after Cain and Abel.Another impressive story is King Yu. This story, as one can imagine, takes place in the Far East - China.

I think it was a beautiful story, and it made me think about life. It reminds of some of the other books I've read by Herman Hesse they also seem to be about the different "personalitys" or "souls" that a human contains and about thinking your life through at any age.Piktor's Metamorphoses are a story written like a fairytale very beautiful written, and stil relevant.Wonderful book!I apoligize for any spelling or grammatical fails. ^.^
This collection of incredible honest stories allow the reader to enter Hesse’s mind with such ease and depth that s/he will be surprised at the seminaries found between what is there and what is in the reader’s own mind, yet again emphasizing the ageless nature of Hesse’s ability to tell those stories that lurk in the world’s subconscious mind.
Its really interesting that after all his searching he finally comes to some of these answers. Its like watching the King Hobbit and the Creator of Caspian converse with one another. Its a new look for one of my favorites.
Some of Hesse's novels are really fine, so I was fairly disappointed in this collection of mostly short works of fantasy or fairy tale. "King Yu", a kind of variation on "Boy who Cried Wolf", and "Bird"--both late works--are quite good, however.
Hesse is my favorite writer. And, although most of this dreamy production is over my head, I could still feel the love and wonder Hesse possessed in his mind and fingers!
Another author that was recommended to me by Joseph Campbell. Hesse is a wonderful storyteller. If you have never read Hesse you could start here.
that was kind of a fable
Fabulous in the true sense of the word. A book I return to again and again for refreshment.
Pretty good tales. Enjoyable quick read.
For a better bang for your buck, go with the Fairy Tales of Hermann Hesse. It features many more stories. This features a few good ones with typical Hesse themes.
Peter kamenzind .. is how i remember this bookSiddhartha immersed in art and country side paradise is kamenzind
Some great. Some not so much.
thought provoking and full of satire.
