https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228221.The_Mask
Those were the good ol' days!I found this amusing (chapter 3):Every thirty seconds or so, a bleached blonde with a shrill voice repeated the same words of amazement: "I can't believe nobody got killed in all that!
I can't believe nobody got killed." Each time she spoke, regardless of where she was in the room, her voice carried over the din and made Paul wince.
"I can't believe nobody got killed." She sounded somewhat disappointed.I listened using the Brilliance audiobook and the narrator did a good job with the different voices.
This was the very first Koontz book I ever read, after a failed attempt at “Strangers”.
I was thirteen at the time, so complex novels like “Strangers” were not yet in my range.
A lot is happening in this story, but it’s like Koontz had to obey a maximum word count or something.
There’s a very short history exposition, an attempt to give them a little baggage, but it’s very light compared to other books and it’s also limited to only one of the characters.
It’s like Koontz is trying too hard to make it creepy enough, meanwhile forgetting to fill in the details.But perhaps I’m simply nitpicking, because I wouldn’t call it a bad book.
It was okay. Not what I thought it would be from the synopsis or the title. (view spoiler)[Definitely didn't suspect reincarnation as the main theme. (hide spoiler)] It was great at building suspense, however, I was upset with the main reveal, and the ending was so anti-climactic and abrupt. My final thought was "that's it?"

This wasn't what I was expecting at all; it was totally unpredictable and surprising, with a lot of creepy horror elements to the plot and characters.
Novel gets better after a tedious beginning before collapsing at the end and disappointing. Koontz has written better. 4 of 10 stars
Carol struggles with nightmares although she and Paul think it's wonderful to have Jane at home.Since Carol is a child psychiatrist, she wants to try hypnosis on the girl for short periods to see if they find some answers about who the girl really is.
This is a very short and atmospheric horror book, and Dean Koontz knows how to describe natural disasters.
What bothered me the most about them, especially with the main characters Carol and Paul, is that it's a bit too much of I love you.The Mask is an entertaining and a bit eerie horror book with a lot of atmosphere.
Clásica historia de reencarnaciones en niña adoptada. Se lee en una sentada. Tres personajes y una localización (la casa) donde sucede todo. Fácil de leer. No te va a sorprender pero si entretener.Dean siempre cumple, su gran mayoría de historias son simples y bien escritas. No suele dejar indiferente, es aún más comparable a una hamburguesa que las de King (dicho por él)
This was a great, fast read. The pacing is swift and the occult plot-line held my attention until the end.
I'm always confused by Koontz's married characters who feel they need to save stray strangers by bringing them into their homes, only to be confounded by the fact that wierd things start to happen, and seem to center around their newest arrival.Well, duh - the girl is a mess, she doesn't know who she is, much less anything about her past, but sure!
Surely not the sweet, innocent blond girl we brought home!
Nobody could have a past that bad!Well, she does, and she did, and you stepped in it, and now you have to scrape it off your feet, and hope you make it to the next day alive.
A good eerie novel dealing with reincarnation, it seemed obvious in the beginning, but like any Koontz novel the obvious lies within the irrational.When we are finally allowed to look outside the box, we are shown a bigger picture. I did enjoy the supernatural element, but The Mask did have a few flaws: First, Koontz never really explains the supernatural element that was tipping off the main characters; were the spirits good or bad? Finally, the book ended too abruptly.It was wrapped up in 10 pages. We never know the fate of the characters.A quick and easy read.
this was my first Dean Koontz's work.
i found it very well written, with a lot of suspense, action and elements of horror, and honestly, i couldn't stop reading :).
but i expected more of the story itself - the subject on which the story was based on was too simplified and a explained in a bit "cliche" way.
all that with the abrupt and somehow incomplete ending, and i was left a bit disappointed after i finished, but i enjoyed reading it so much that i decided i could tolerate it ;).
that's why i gave it 4 stars, although it probably deserves 3...
I don't believe in Ghosts.
Being a Hindu, I must believe in reincarnation - But I don't.
Even if I believed in reincarnation and transmigration, I, as a Hindu, must believe that these chances are given to souls to improve upon themselves and not to wreck havoc by channeling all their accumulated Karma towards misplaced revenge.Having stated my beliefs I must also admit that I enjoyed reading The Mask by Dean Koontz very much.
He has managed to weave the unbelievables into a beautiful novel which I had to read in one sitting.Great work.
I am getting to like the author more and more.
As I was heavily skimming through this novel, I thought to myself, "I remember Dean Koontz being better than this."Then about halfway through, I paused. What exactly do I remember about reading Dean Koontz?Hmm.....There was...And then that....Darkness. Someone was afraid of darkness. And there was a hermaphrodite that one time.Yeah, apparently I don't remember novels from childhood like I thought I did. Dean Koontz sucks. How did I forget that?
This was an interesting Dean Koontz novel. I gave it only 3 stars for two reasons. First, I was not pleased that a Siamese cat was a villain or that it had to be killed. BOOOOO! That is terrible. Second, the ending was terrible. It was so jarring and incomplete. It felt very unfinished.However, if you like Dean Koontz, I believe this is still an enjoyable, easy read. There is a lot of paranormal cool stuff and a bit a mystery to keep the reader engaged.
"Сама, заспала дълбоко, пренесена в сън, различен от онзи, който беше причинил писъците й, Джейн въздишаше, усмихваше се, смееше се тихичко.— Брадвата — шепнеше тя в съня си. — Брадвата. О, да, брадвата. Да. Да.Дланите и се свиха леко, сякаш стискаше някакъв твърд, но невидим предмет.— Брадвата — пошепна тя, и тихият звук на тази дума отекна едва в тъмната стая."
This was entertaining and contained some tense moments. I've heard that Dean Koontz has written some pretty good books. "The Mask" is worth reading but I suspect it is not one of his best.
First Koontz book I've ever read. I fell in love and haven't stopped reading him since. The Bad Place is my absolute favorite.
okay so this book was just ODD.. and I'm not talking Koontz's awesome series Odd Thomas, I mean the actual story is just weird. Jumping through 4 different people's views, isn't that bad, couple of trances, something THUNKING around two of the houses, flashbacks to the pastSounds pretty goodNope, it fell really flat and the ending was no ending whatsoever.
I'm a huge Koontz fan, but this is quite possibly the most disappointing book of his I've ever read. To be fair the first 98% is good, but the ending is like he somehow ran out if pages and had to wrap it up asap. *Nerd confession** It sucked so bad I actually took the time to rewrite a better ending.
Another great read from my favourite author, this one filled with suspense and the supernatural.Fast-paced and well-written, this story has themes such as love, revenge, guilt and sorrow, and asks plausible questions about life and death, and the bonds of relationships.It did end abruptly, which is unusual for this author, although there were no loose ends.Enjoyable and recommended.
As with a lot of Dean Koontz books, there is a bit too much telling for my tastes but The Mask redeems itself by being fairly short (only 7 audio cds) and also for the creepiness factor.
The character I connected with most is Grace, Carol's mentor and the one who figures out what is going on behind the supernatural incidents that are occuring.
Her best performance in this audio book is Grace and I envisioned this character more than the others.
It is not my favorite Koontz story, but I really loved the scary elements and as an audio book to pass the time it fit the bill.
meh.
I read this book because I loved the majority of Koontz's "Frankenstein" series. Thought I'd go back and check out an earlier work. Big mistake. This book reads like a really predictable, really cheesy 80's horror movie. At the start, there is WAY too much backstory for Carol and Paul, to the point where it becomes tedious and boring, then things finally heat up around page 120, even though you still know well and truly what will happen at the end. Oh, yeah, then at the end, the storyline collapses like a balloon that's been deflated too quickly. Meh.
I gotta say for Dean Koontz, I'm a little disappointed.
I do believe this is one of his earlier titles though.It starts off kind of slow.
You know something is happening but it's just taking so long to develop.
Then when it happens, its great for about 30 pages or so, then it just drops off again.
I mean you know what happens and the climax is over, but there isn't really any closure.
A fine read if you are a true Dean Koontz fan, otherwise stick to some of his more recent stuff.
I really enjoyed the buildup of this novel. The suspense was killer because you didn't know who this mysterious girl was and what she had to do with the Victorian girl from the beginning of the book. Meanwhile said mystery girl would become almost possessed under hypnosis, poltergeists were running rampant in the main couple's house, and a house cat was going beserk and trying to kill an old lady. However,the ending was really anticlimactic. I wanted to know more about the fire too and that didn't happen. :(
I like Dean Koontz. I didn't think I would but I do. And I liked this book, too, which I just read for the Horror book club I'm in.There are some cool but predictable plot twists and some cool twists that I didn't see coming. I enjoyed the spiritual element involving reincarnation and the idea that we encounter certain people over and over again in our different lives. I also loved the atmosphere and the storm motif, which I suppose doubled as a metaphor for what was going on in the story. An enjoyable early novel from Dean Koontz!
Talk about a slow build up.
The first part of the book was slow and became boring.
Fortunately, Kootnz finally got it going just past the half way point of the story.
While the book was enjoyable, it was just barely so.
It was written in the early 80's (copywrite 1981), but the driving reason for why what is going on is happening is on the cliche side now.
It's Dean Kootnz, if you want to be able to say you read it, then it's worth reading.
If you don't care, there are much better stories out there written by this same author.
I have a mixed review for this book. When it started it felt too much like a Goosebumps book. It did manage to pick up and somewhere along the way I became swept up in the story line. Towards the end I had trouble setting it aside even for a minute. The most disappointing part of the book was the ending, it was very weak. When I finished the book I was left wondering what happened next, there were still un-answered questions in my mind.
The writing and descriptions of characters, action, and the supernatural are all first rate. The first chapter had me holding my breath, disbelieving that I was actually feeling what the child was. Absolutely amazing and the second chapter did the same. Really loved this book...the story, setting, ambience, characters--all of it. It was spooky without being over the top. And, this is one where Koontz obviously took utmost care with each and every word.
