https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900892.A_Random_Walk_Down_Wall_Street
Malkiel describes with clear examples the differences between audacious investment strategies, designed to quickly profit, and more prudent strategies that aim to increase profits in longer times.Recommended for those who want an introduction to the stock market world.Vote: 7Una stimolante “passeggiata” per Wall Street, percorrendo varie tappe temporali che hanno segnato l’economia americana in primis, e di riflesso quella mondiale, allo scopo di fornirci gli elementi necessari a comprendere le principali regole di investimento in borsa.
Malkiel descrive con chiari esempi le differenze tra strategie di investimento spregiudicate, volte a trarre profitto in tempi brevi, e strategie più prudenti che mirano ad incrementare i profitti in tempi più lunghi.Consigliato a chi vuole un introduzione sul mondo della borsa.Voto: 7
There have been several updates to the book, but the condescending voice of the author remains.For the statistically interested, the problem with a lot of old finance (and also not so old) research was that it was testing the theory that the market was efficient.
So while there are some very good critical analyses in this book, ultimately it might make you believe in something that is very costly: That you cannot make more money in the stock market unless you are willing to take on a higher level of risk.Currently a lot of academics are questioning the efficient markets.
His position is more subtle: first, he holds that markets, even if they're inefficient in the short run, trend towards efficiency in the long run; second, he points out that, even if a stock might be mispriced, the financial tools available for determining if and to what extent it is mispriced are often inaccurate; and third, he points to the many practical impediments to cashing in on market inefficiencies, such as transaction fees and capital gains taxes.Of course, I doubt this book is the whole story; after all, I personally know people who made considerable money on the stock market using diametrically opposed strategies.
When I started working I was interested in technology, not business and finance.
Business and finance seemed a bit beneath me.
(One example: It cost me about $30,000 to learn the different between a market order and a limit order when selling some VRTY shares.) I have learned some definite lessons about how the stock market works, but at the cost of more money than I thought I would ever have -- let alone lose.That's why I would recommend this book to anyone who is planning to retire one day (i.e. everyone), especially people in their twenties with a vaguely technical bent.
Great theories to learn!I can see why this became a classic for investors.-The Firm-Foundation Theory(Fundamental Analysis)-The Castle-in-the-Air Theory (Technical Analysis)
And the real point of reading it – I wanted to see what Malkiel’s update had to say about my retirement funds in the current economic environment.
If you’re here because you are looking for a rationale for a portfolio – one you can manage yourself – hang in there and read on.Essentially, his advice is classic for our times: build a diversified portfolio of index funds (some small caps, large caps, international, emerging economies, REITs, and bonds).
He does not recommend buying a stock index fund and nothing else.
I’m something of a Bogle disciple, and highly recommend his book The Little Book of Common Sense Investing.After providing a lot of background information, Malkiel finally gets to the part I was looking for: specific financial advice.
It’s an inflation hedge, provides tax breaks, and forces saving.The market trends upward, so it’s better to invest a lump sum today than to dollar cost average.
For investors without lump sums, however, dollar cost averaging is the most common and reasonable approach.Save for financial goals using vehicles that mature at the goal date (CDs, treasuries, bonds, etc.).Portfolio constructionDiversify to reduce risk.
Malkiel's been writing and rewriting this classic tome on investing for the last thirty-five years.
So it's not the most exciting approach to investing; but it will, in the long run, turn out to be the most rewarding.This newly rewritten version of Malkiel's classic Random Walk ...
The final section details Malkiel's guide to personal finance and investing.If you are curious about how men and women have invested their money over the past 500 years, or how common investment strategies work (and don't work in the long run), or how to make the most of your investments over decades, Malkiel's Random Walk ...
It goes into extensive detail as to why you should strongly consider index funds or ETFs rather than mutual funds, individual stocks, or help from a personal financial adviser.
First, Mutual funds are managed and rarely outperform the market.
Note that these fees apply whether the mutual fund goes up or down.Second, individual stocks are hard to pick without investing a serious amount of time.
Note that whenever I've bothered to press someone who tells me they have, it turns out they haven't...again, it's that darn mental block thing.Third, and worst of all, you could go with a personal financial adviser.
It is one of the book that gave the most influence in my life.I apply that approach the (index funds
Thank you, Burton, for writing this masterpiece. I always have fear of reading this book because I thought it would be a tough one to read but now I am saying that this book is easy reading with much fun and I am very appreciated for Malkiel's great style of writing. Great lifetime investing advice, fabulous wisdom and a complete book for Americans but As an Iranian person, I am saying It helped me to think sharp and by every piece of my heart I am saying that I am owing you, Burton G. Malkiel :)
It's hard to believe at this point that Malkiel's views on the desirability of indexing and not trading and the basic truth of the efficient market hypothesis were ever controversial or not conventional wisdom (the 1 and 2 star reviews here notwithstanding... how many geniuses like Peter Thiel blew up betting against Treasuries in the past few years, guys? Efficient markets FTW.), but nevertheless, he was a pioneer. I didn't wind up learning too much from this since it's targeted at beginners, but that is not its fault and the advice is generally sound.
A common sense approach to investing. No hypes.
As a Princeton professor and board member of the Vanguard Group, Malkiel brought the practical implications of the efficient market hypothesis to the general investing public.
Malkiel popularized the idea with this book.The efficient market hypothesis states that the stock market accurately reflects all available information in current prices such that no individual investor can consistently earn extraordinary returns.
Interesting tidbits:The Indian who sold Manhattan Island for $24 in 1626 would have more than $50 billion if he invested it at 6% interest compounded semiannually.Neither technical analysis (following past stock prices through charts) nor fundamental analysis (predicting future earnings based on assumptions and guesses) have proven to consistently beat the market.
A pretty good read for what it's worth.
A good primer into basic finance.
Personally, it was a good review of finance 101, with a pretty solid explanation of modern portfolio theory, and CAPM.
The book is famous for introducing efficient market theory (strong, semi-strong and weak forms) to the general public.
It argues through some pretty copious evidence that it is hard to beat the market consistently either through fundamentals or technicals.
Filled with practical advice (life cycle investing, holding more bonds to stocks as you get older), and the standard lessons of finance.
As a college graduate with a child's understanding of economics and personal finance, Malkiel's guide was invaluable in understanding how the market works, tips on how to manage money, and his succinct yet rigorous and clear treatment of various investing strategies.
I now have a much stronger grasp on how to invest and manage my finances as I enter post-graduate life.Pros:- An easy and mostly accessible read for those with almost 0 knowledge of economics or finance.
Some economic and finance terms are assumed to be known such as what stocks, bonds are but definitions are easily found online.- Statements and recommendations are always backed by academic results or stock market historical accounts.
I was already sold on Malkiel's approach to the stock market before I even picked this book up -- I'm a big supporter of Wealthfront, the investment platform for which Malkiel serves as CIO -- but it was a valuable exercise to understand his reasoning in greater detail.
If you're paying someone 1 or 2 percent a year to manage your investments, you're throwing away money.I particularly enjoyed Chapter 11, "Potshots at the efficient-market theory and why they miss," in which he rebuts standard criticisms of his theory.
This is a great read that explains all of the core concepts related to Wall Street and financial investment, and takes the time to explain the historical significance of them as well.
He stops to debunk theories that would deny the efficient-market theory, and then launches into some great practical advice for the investor.Besides strongly encouraging investing in index funds as a way to minimize risk, he suggests looking into closed-end funds when offered at a large enough discount from the net asset value.
I highly recommend this to all new investors as a solid, no frills investment tutorial.
Fairly good guide to the stock market for a lay person and a good introduction to the Efficient Market Hypothesis which has been under some scrutiny since the last financial crisis and challenged by the new field of behavioral economics which analyzes our less than rational actions in the marketplace. Very fun and the bottom line advice for those who want to beat the market is don't try. Get a diversified portfolio of index funds and hold onto them for a good while and you'll do about as well as the market which for most of us is good enough.
Very thorough treatment of the case for long-term index investing. Most of the book is summed up in the first page of the preface."Investors would be far better off buying and holding an index fund than attempting to buy and sell individual securities or actively managed mutual funds."There's not much more to it.The rest is a generally readable and informative background and support for this theory, plus a lot of good general investing understanding.I feel more informed after reading this.
Good introduction to personal finance. For some reason does expect some familiarity with bonds (especially relationship between price, YTM, face value etc.). Argues very persuasively that broad index funds with low fees is best investment around. Gives some advice on individual stock picking, but recommends that it is done with small percentage of portfolio and undertaken with the understanding that it is more fun than profitable...Introduction to basic options trading, hedging strategies. Recommend for people wanting to "get started" or who are reckless daytrader hopefuls.
Good history of the stock market, talks about the bull and bear markets of the past few hundred years and provides fundamental analysis and explores various trading and investing techniques used. The book explains meticulously and thoroughly about different investment tools and techniques for the average investor. It's a good read for the experienced investors that provides more theory and insight from a very experience investor and fund manager.
Best finance/investing I've ever read. This book offers no get-rich schemes, it simply informs you about investments that are the least risky and offer stable returns. What more could you ask?Remember that scene from The Graduate? Well, don't invest in plastics. Invest in Index Funds. Simple.
Incredibly boring first two parts (though historically informative) but the last part was stellar! Definitely a book I will refer to again.
For those who study finance, after reading this book, you'll realize that most of what you studied in finance (especially Investments courses) are useless. :')
FALSE
This is a well known introduction to personal finance. I appreciated that it combined theoretical discussion with practical advice.
The "hot hand" has been proven time and again not to exist, yet people still "see it." As Nobel laureate Daniel Kahneman puts it "There is general agreement among researchers that nearly all stock pickers, whether they know it or not – and few of them do – are playing a game of chance." If 1,000 portfolio managers had a 50/50 chance of beating the market annually, then odds are that after a decade there would be one who had done it every year-- by randomness (try it with a coin yourself).
If you are only looking for a way to make the most of your investments, it's not necessary to read much of this section.The second half of the book is a look into what you should be doing with your money.
He then discusses different investment strategies for different people at different stages of life with different tolerances for risk in their portfolios.The reason that I've given this book four stars and not five is that it makes broad assumptions about how people will want to make and spend money throughout their lives.
"An investment in knowledge pays the best interest." - Benjamin FranklinLessons learnt: Invest in passive index funds for a very long time with money you won't need until retirement!Stocks go up and stocks go down - that's about it for my knowledge on stock markets.
Although Malkiel believes in rational markets he also fully understands that predicting the future of stocks is like rolling a dice.
For the long term you won't be able to predict if Apple and Microsoft will still be around, but you can (more safely) assume that the stock market will have grown.To sum up all the advice and fine details of A Random Walk Down Wall Street wouldn't do the book justice.
