https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31259.The_Bourne_Ultimatum
After three grueling months I finally finished reading this book.
After reading the first two books in the Bourne trilogy, I felt compelled to finally see the final confrontation between Jason Bourne and Carlos the Jackal.
However, I'm fairly certain that Robert Ludlum took a class on writing ridiculously bad exposition dialogue before completing the series.
Of course, Ludlum's dead, so we know he can't read this.
Just like I could barely read his book.
Without the mystery of who Jason Bourne is and why he knows how to be such an amazing super-spy, there's nothing to draw you into the story.
The first few Bourne books were page turning, barn burners. This is probably the last one I read as I was getting Bourne burnout, but it was still a great read.
By about the middle of the book, I wanted to shoot Carlos myself just so that the insanity would end.
The plot in this book seems even more complex than in the other two and is impossible to comprehend.
Nevertheless, I cared about Jason Bourne enough as a character to stick out the whole grueling story with him, but I felt almost as beat up and emotionally raw as he did by the time it was over.
Overall, not a pleasant reading experience, but if you're a die-hard Bourne fan, you can't really pass this one up.
I love the book more than the movie
In this third of the Bourne Trilogy, there is the ultimate showdown between two spies.
Both of these spies are given telegrams to go to a carnival in a small town.
Each of them witness a terrible murder.One of the men given a telegram in David Webb, a professor in the northeast USA.
The third (and last by Ludlum) entry in the story of "Jason Bourne".
If your only exposure to Bourne are the Matt Damon movies, then you don't really have an idea of the story.
This (as these cases usually do) ruined any enjoyment of the movie for me.
I always wonder why bother to "buy" an authors title and then write a screen play that doesn't even resemble the novel?
Oh well, nothing I can do.My suggestion?
They may not be the best Ludlum ever wrote, but they are outstanding novels, and in my opinion far better then the recent movies.
Again, these books bear almost no resemblance to the movies (which I still like). But these books are far superior to the movies. Ludlum keeps the stress of the external and internal conflicts high throughout the books. Book 3 (I think) did a better job with characterization than with 1-2, and it contained more humor than before. Highly recommend.
As the Ludlum portion of the Bourne series comes to an end with this book, I must say that this is surely a very thick (in all its senses) book, filled with great nuances.
I suppose we shall see if the reader must suspend reality and allow Bourne not to age over the 14 year hiatus, or whether Lustbader will pick up in the early 1990s, surely harder to do, with technology being what it is in the espionage game these days.One small thing I must mention in this book, being a proud Canadian.
I felt like finishing it - and the original trilogy - was an obligation after only a few pages.The dialogue is ridiculous - nobody (and while I'm not familiar with American government institutions and their employees I'm pretty sure this covers them too) speaks in such a manner.
However, when you mix in the poor dialogue and easy fixes (seriously, everything that could be a problem from CIA equipment, millions of dollars in funds, incognito international travel, is so easily sorted out and available) it just lacks anything resembling substance.
Best of the trilogy .
Indeed, I found myself, upon this reread, a little shocked at how often Bourne makes mistakes and is mentioned to be getting old.
William Dufris's narration of this work so enthralled me at the time that I played the tapes several times over - no small thing considering they ran for over twenty-five hours, and even reading it myself now, I find I hear his voice and his characters.I especially liked the way Ultimatum made homage to Identity, the section back in France was very nicely done, if a little rushed.
And again, I can only further iterate that the way Bourne's age is brought up time and again makes the subsequent novels even more pointless than many have intimated.
This book was a roller coaster.
There are several places where you think the penultimate climax – the one where Bourne and The Jackal finally have it out – only to have the book continue further.
There are plot twists and hopes dashed by disappointments along the way, but it is the ultimate Bourne book.
(Although, unlike many other Ludlum fans, I don’t think the Bourne books are his best works, but that’s not to say I disliked any of the original Bourne trilogy.)I could have done with a little less of the hold-onto-David-Webb and make-Jason-Bourne-go-away stuff throughout the book; it does get a bit tiresome, but it’s also Marie that makes Bourne into Webb, and defending Marie and his kids is what makes Webb turn back to Bourne.
The gripping finale to the Bourne saga, well the Ludlum originals anyway.
Seeing as this book clearly lays out that Bourne is now in his 50s, I really don't see how the Lustbader sequels can continue the story - Bourne out with his zimmer frame?The Bourne Ultimatium is a good clean up of the Bourne vs.
Carlos storyline from the first book.
You know they have to meet up, you know they have to fight and you know Bourne has to win.
I just wish Ludlum could have utilised slightly fewer repetitions of the getting-them-together-then-it's-a-trap-then-Carlos-escapes-again plot device.
Well, I finished the series, just to finish it. It took me nearly 2 1/2 weeks to finish this book. I was motivated simply to finish it, not because I was interested, really. I was disappointed, once again, in the language, too thick of a plot, violence, and sexual innuendos. My husband bought me the first and third books of the series for my Birthday, before I'd read either of them. Now that I'm done, I'm donating them to the library. I know I'll never read these again.
Very nice one
One of my favorite adventure/thriller series.
This was boring, and yet filled with action. To be fair: it was an abridged audiobook. Basically 2 spies trying to kill each other with lots of government aid. Almost zero character development. Honestly, I didn't care about any of the characters... it didn't matter who died really. Lacking everything a good Jack Reacher book would have.Maybe there's a movie that's better.
He is a sympathetic man that will turn into a monster during dangerous circumstances but always fight for the good cause, and in this book Ludlum really nails Bourne's imner conflict.It has been 13 years since Jason Bourne woke up with memory-loss on a beach in France and discovered his true identity as David Webb, an undercover CIA operative in pursuit of the dangerous terrorist Carlos the Jackal.
A great plot with many twists and turns, a fascinating and ruthless villain, exciting locations, interesting side characters, and an amazing climax at a KGB training facility.
The jackal is unwilling to let Jason live so he is intent on spending the rest of his life hunting him until he finally kills him.
The jackal uses old men who are willing to die for him, to carry out his plans and to trust because they have nothing left to lose so it is them that he uses to hunt Jason's family.
One of the men kills the other man and then he decides to change sides to get the jackal caught.
The death of the jackal finally brings a sense of peace to Jason.Robert Ludlum does a good job in describing everything that is happening in detail.
Perhaps because I had measles and a high fever...but it kinda made sense.I listened to this one on audio book, and seriously, by the time I got done with I was like, "Kill him!
Kill him, already!" Jason Bourne is kind of like Indiana Jones; no matter how many holes, cuts, or bruises he has, he just keeps jumping, climbing, and doing impossible feats of derring-do.
But he's got to be on some kind of performance-enhancing drug because by now he's in his late 50s or more.
I usually use audiobooks to while away the time during dull tasks such as cleaning, ironing etc.
All good things come to an end and so does the triology of Jason Bourne with this third book in the series.
Over the course of the three books I have watched as Bourne slowly finds out more bits and pieces of his past, all the while his almost super human kick-butt skills become more and more sharp.
This is why there cannot be any more book after the three as The Bourne Ultimatum completes the series entirely.
The memory of Bourne stays...And now i look forward to the three movies to re-live the series :)
Finally. Okay, so the book was good but I have to say it really could have been wrapped up in about 250 pages instead of the 663 it took. So many misses that were just frustrating. All the integral plot points tied up in the end and it definitely didn't leave any questionable loose ends. While I'm glad I read the books as they are SO different from the movies, I'm also glad that I'm done with the series.
Maybe it's not that bad, but Lord, it sure ain't good.
That character is the scholar David Webb, or, as more people know him, Jason Bourne - the lethal government assassin - until he got amnesia.
Now, David Webb must take on the identity of Jason Bourne to protect his family and track down Carlos to kill him once and for all.
Despite it being a good book, I don't think it would be good enough for an 8th grader to read.
I have not delved much into the thriller genre prior to reading these Bourne books, but after them, I think I might look at more books like this one.
He intends to leave his mark (...)☺- Mrs. Cooper: No, Miss Marie, you stay with your husband.
Do you hurt?- Jason: I hate to dispel the myth of a great lady’s incontestable perceptions, but she’s wrong- Marie: Why do you have to use a dozen words when one will suffice?- Jason: Because I’m supposed to be a scholar.
What are you, antiintellectual?- Marie: No. You see, that’s a simple, one-word declarative- Jason: What’s a declarative?- Marie: It’s a shortcut to the truth.
As in five and five equals ten, not nine or eleven, but ten- Jason: You’re a ten- Marie: That’s banal, but I’ll take it.
I was thoroughly impressed by the ability of the novel to incorporate such enticing action while being down to Earth in the representation of the emotions of each character.Jason Bourne was trying to live a normal life with a family and job in a place where no one knew about his past as a secret agent.
This is an important lesson because many people believe that having an exciting and risky job like a secret agent is spectacular, but after Jason has accomplished this feat he realized that it can be spectacular to lead a normal life if he makes it that way.I would recommend this novel to someone who has seen the Bourne movie series or just enjoys a quality action packed story.
Since this isn't the first book in the series, the prior books set up an expectation for this ultimate finish that Ludlum does rather well.
Happily consistent language and humor makes a smooth transition from Supremacy to Ultimatum, and characters' personalities are intact and dialogue bounces between them well; probably the best in the series!
Seems harsh, but it's out of touch with the rest of his character development, and definitely rubbed me the wrong way.Overall, though, expect more of the same consistent storytelling, and if you've made it this far, definitely a series worth finishing up!
A few years ago, having watched Bourne movies, I picked the Bourne Identity up from the library.
Jason Bourne tries to deal with his amnesia while being hunted by and hunting a notorious assassin, Carlos the Jackal.
When I saw The Bourne Ultimatum at a used book sale for twenty-five cents, I picked it up.
Ten years later, Jason Bourne at fifty is once again pitted against Carlos the Jackal in one final battle to the death.
When I should be being gripped with the suspense instead I just wanted to put the book down.
The third and final story of the trilogy takes place 5 years after the crazy saga in Hong Kong and 13 years after Bourne's first confrontation with Carlos The Jackal at Treadstone Seventy One.In this final installment a message is sent cryptically supposedly from Bourne to Conklin and Panov to meet at a carnival, but the message ends up being from The Jackal, who has found Bourne and nowhere is safe.
As we have learned throughout the trilogy no place is safe from Carlos and Bourne is brought back out of hiding for a final confrontation with the Jackal.
The story takes place 13 years after the first book.
The story is obviously the last book in the series, and you can tell by the way that it is constructed that it was meant to be the last.
So I am a bit concerned about the next three, where exactly does the story go after this one.
The plot and scenes are forced and convoluted to the point that I only finished the book so that I could be done, not because I was interested in how the story ended up.
At some point I didn't care anymore.
