https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1038897.The_Chinese_Lake_Murders
In the small isolated mountain city of Han-yuan, dominated by a large majestic lake and famous for its floating brothels "Flower Boats", Judge Dee is the newly appointed by the exalted Emperor , district magistrate.
Later in the night, Almond Blossom can't be located, a search for her all through the boat but nothing...Dee and his assistants help , finally the magistrate looks over the railing , sees a strange sight...Staring back at him are two dead eyes below the surface of the lake's murky waters...
Θα καταφέρει ο Δικαστής Τι να βρει τον συνδετικό κρίκο που ενώνει αυτά τα περίεργα και ανόμοια μεταξύ τους συμβάντα και να ξεδιπλώσει την επικίνδυνη συνωμοσία που στήνεται πίσω από τις πλάτες του;Μυστήριο, περιπέτεια και γρήγορη δράση σε μια σειρά βιβλίων με ήρωα τον Δικαστή Τι, που πρώτη φορά διαβάζω και φυσικά θα συνεχίσω μέχρι να βρω τα βιβλία όλης της σειράς!Υ.Γ.
Μου άρεσε πολύ το υστερόγραφο στο τέλος του βιβλίου, με την λεπτομερή ανάλυση του έργου από τον ίδιο τον συγγραφέα του, Robert van Gulik.4,5/5 αστεράκια.
Thank God he also decided to become an author!The Chinese Lake Murders unfurls with three cases from when Judge Dee was a new magistrate in Han-yuang in A.D. 666.
Just moments earlier, the girl had whispered to Judge Dee that a terrible conspiracy was afoot in Han-yuang, making the magistrate certain that she was killed to keep her from divulging her secret.
However, in The Chinese Lake Murders, Judge Dee faces quite a few enigmas: The report of a bride who dies on her wedding night and is quickly laid into a coffin.
When Judge Dee opens that coffin, the bride is gone, but the murdered corpse of a carpenter has taken its place!
He was very knowledgeable about ancient China and took a deep interest in Chinese erotic art.
This mystery story draws on ancient Chinese detective stories, of which he had made a special study, and is enlivened with many erotic allusions to tease the reader's imagination.
There is a lot going on but much of it is explained only after it has happened, which makes it difficult to become caught up in the action.However, the Judge Dee stories, as far as I know, have no equivalent in English and I recommend them for anyone who likes exotic mysteries or is interested in China during the Ming Dynasty.
Y hay conspiraciones y organizaciones secretas, como se espera de este tipo de novelas de la vieja escuela.
Un misterio que en realidad no es tan complejo como parece, hay información que se nos escamotea, por supuesto, y otra ofrecida de tal forma que da pistas falsas.
Los personajes son funcionales, el detective (el Juez Di) tiene suficiente personalidad, aunque no llegue a los legendarios (como Poirot, por ejemplo), y todo se supedita a la trama, al misterio.
Es un buen ejemplo del género, aunque tal vez le haya faltado un "algo" especial para gustarme más.
Μου άρεσε πολύ. Η πλοκή εξελίσσεται κρατώντας τον αναγνώστη σε αγωνία, οι ιστορίες δένουν αρμονικά μεταξύ τους, ο συγγραφές δεν αφήνει ανεξήγητα κενά και δημιουργεί όμορφες εικόνες.
Kohtunik Di ja Valge Lootose õudne ja kurjakuulutav salaselts! Kuld! Ilmselt viie klassikalise kohtunik Di juhtumi (Hiina kulla/järve/kella/labürindi/naelamõrvad) seast üks vingemaid - kuigi meenub et kella ja labürindimõrvad polnud sugugi kehvemad. Nagu ikka kolm kokkupõimunud juhtumit ja geniaalne lahendus neile kõigile. Ja Valge Lootos!
Βρήκα απίστευτα πρωτοπορειακό απο το "Δολοφόνοι και χρυσάφι" ακόμα ότι οι οίκοι ανοχής τους ήταν σε πλοία εκτός πόλεως, τα λεγόμενα καράβια των λουλουδιών.
Βλέπουμε ότι ακόμα και στους επαίτες υπήρχε συντεχνεία που αφού γινόσουν δεκτός έπρεπε καθερινά να καταβάλεις το 10% των εσόδων σου στον αρχηγό της συντεχνείας της πόλης και να μην προκαλείς φασαρίες, διαφορετικά οι παρείσακτοι εκκαθαριζόταν.
Ένα ακόμα σημαντικό στοιχείο είναι ότι ο κατηγορούμενος στο δικαστήριο πρέπει να ομολογήσει ο ίδιος τα εγκληματά του, διαφορετικά δεν μπορεί ο δικαστής με όσα στοιχεία και να έχει να τον κρίνει ένοχο.
Το κύριο όμως νομίζω σημείο του συγκεκριμένου βιβλίου είναι η περιγραφή των λειτουργειών της μυστικής υπηρεσίας του Αυτοκράτορα για την καταστολή ομάδας εξεγερθέντων.
The first few paragraphs appear to be about a man who is haunted by some malicious force, perhaps spirit.
Then it turned into a quite good detective story and the "haunted" man had disappeared and never made a comeback....
how strange?The detective story is quite entertaining with lots of little twists and turns that keep you rolling along.
The supporting characters are fun and have their own adventures whilst engaged in the investigation but it is Judge Dee who lies at the core of the story.
yet they also appear to be connected....Jolly good.
Published in 1960, this is another of Robert van Gulik’s detective novels set in Imperial China the 8th century AD, sees Judge Dee investigating three apparently unconnected cases. One involves a beautiful murdered courtesan, one involves the death of a bride of her wedding night, and the third involves the strange financial transactions of an elderly imperial councillor. It soon becomes evident that none of these cases is what it seems, and that the judge has stumbled upon something much larger and much more sinister. It’s wonderful entertainment.
As with so many classics, you read this, you have no idea why you read this since it violates every standard of how to write a proper mystery, and yet you can't stop.I will also say that Robert van Gulik was one of those authors who is at *least* as interesting as his characters.
Go references: Little on the game itself, but a diagram of a game position plays a major role in the plot.
Sau đây mình chỉ để lại cảm nhận ngắn gọn, vì thực sự là thời gian này mình cảm thấy khá lười với việc đánh máy, và cũng không có nhiều ý tưởng để viết.Trước giờ mình đọc rất ít truyện do tác giả người Trung Quốc viết, hoặc lấy bối cảnh ở Trung Quốc, không biết sao, nhưng mình không có ấn tượng lắm với văn học Trung Quốc, mình cứ có suy nghĩ là việc nhớ tên các nhân vật Trung Quốc khó nhớ thế nào ấy.
Ai dè, bắt đầu bởi cái chết của vũ nữ xinh đẹp sau khi nàng cố gắng cảnh báo Địch Công về âm mưu trong trấn, từ đó các sự kiện liên kết với nhau tạo thành chuỗi những mê trận của án mạng, âm mưu to lớn và dục vọng của những người có tiếng tăm của huyện Hán Nguyên.Khác với 2 truyện đầu, ở vụ án Thuyền hoa, Địch Công đã bộc lộ ra những nét tính cách về một người mới chỉ trải qua 6 năm làm huyện lệnh.
3 vụ án tuy có vẻ không liên quan đến nhau nhiều lắm nhưng những nhân vật trong các vụ án lại là một mắt xích quan trọng để Địch Công tìm ra manh mối trấn động về các âm mưu chính trị, lòng tham vô đáy và những dục vọng cấm kị.Trong tập truyện này, Địch Công có lập luận sắc bén hơn, có kinh nghiệm hơn trong các vấn đề về hành xử.
Ví dụ như đoạn đầu khi Địch Công được mời đi dự yến tiệc, với con mắt tinh đời trong việc nhìn nhận ra vấn đề đăng sau bể cá mà lại không thể nhìn ra ánh mắt ngờ vực của Lưu Phi Ba?
Fantastic book, i'm yet to find a book of Van Qulik that i don't like ...
one word : boring.ga tau apa karena paragrafnya yg ga rapih, kisah berteletele, atau ke-vulgar-an yg terlalu banyak. yg jelas buat saya, buku ini membosankan.
This is when Tao Gan joined the tribunal.
It features van Gulik's preference for puzzles with an antiquarian and Sinological twist, as well as the fisticuffs, shady hotel back rooms, dilapidated temples and sordid brothels that van Gulik's brand of storytelling relishes in.And no mystery like this would work without a colourful cast of well-sketched characters: the blustering, oblivious and heavy-drinking town provost Han Yongnan; his talkative daughter Chuiliu; the somewhat stuffy professor Jiang Wenzhang; his skittish (but filial and protective) son Youbi, matched somewhat comically with his robust, fearless and tomboyish bride Yue'e; her jealous father Liu Feibo; the poor, careworn, lovestruck clerk Liang Yide; the sullen and brutish Su Yicheng; the sleazy man-of-business Wan Yifan; and of course the lovely but ill-fated murdered dancer Xinghua, whose backstory brings up more questions than it answers.My only complaint with this book (and it's not really even that much of a complaint), was the slightly clichéd way in which the murderer is revealed at the end, with Judge Dee literally challenging him by ripping his masque off.
The outcome of the story for Dee himself is not glory but a chewing-out by his superiors.
The implication is that the ancient Chinese judicial and administrative system actually expects a Sherlock Holmes level of competence from its magistrates, and that Dee should have been on top of events from the very start.I came away from this very pleased.
It's interesting to see a mystery framed by an entirely different system of jurisprudence, and van Gulik goes to lengths to justify the story details with regard to Chinese history and culture.
It may not be a perfect rendition, but the versimilitude is there.All the women in the story appear to be known by English words: "Moon Fairy", "Almond Blossom", etc.
Có đoạn giải quyết hơi khiên cưỡng, nhưng tựu chung thì đây vẫn là một truyện hay, đáng đọc.
# 4 in the Judge Dee series.
Judge Dee travels throughout China to serve as magistrate.
In this installment, he is in Han-yuan, where the case he is supposed to investigate involves embezzlement.
However, as in all of these books, a number of different mysteries arise: the popular courtesan disappearance of the top courtesan Almond Blossom and the replacement of the body of a dead bride with a man who had most obviously been murdered.
Add the White Lotus sect (a notoriously dangerous sect of rebels) and Judge Dee has a full plate here.Recommended for people who enjoy books set in China, or who like historical mysteries.
I borrowed this book as a recommendation from a friend when we were speaking about gothic horror/romance. Anyhow, the setting for this book is dark and takes the reader back to Ancient Chinese where the "detective" is Judge Dee (as some of you may know, the judge often plays the role of investigator in Chinese history). I probably consider this to be one of my first adult mysteries, I enjoyed the read. How would I compare this to Sherlock Holmes? Unfortunately I'll let you know when I get around to finishing one.
(17.11.1993), This was a 1950s murder mystery with a very different setting. VanGulik used his experiences in China in an interesting way. Having read old Chinese mystery stories of the previous centuries, he could adapt them for his Western audience. I saw many Confucian influences, as well. This was an action tale for men. I was really disgusted by the (too typical) characterization of women. I don’t remember any women of any substance in this tale. Only dead whores, albeit educated ones. Don’
(17.11.1993), 	This was a 1950s murder mystery with a very different setting. VanGulik used his experiences in China in an interesting way. Having read old Chinese mystery stories of the previous centuries, he could adapt them for his Western audience. I saw many Confucian influences, as well.	This was an action tale for men. I was really disgusted by the (too typical) characterization of women. I don’t remember any women of any substance in this tale. Only dead whores, albeit educated ones. Don’t men get bored with sex kittens? Probably not.
Culturally, historically delightful and seemingly accurate. Half of Robert Hans van Gulik's energy seems spent upon the romanticized crime case and the detectiving that goes on about it, while the other half is spent in providing historically accurate details about costume, custom, architecture, and life in general to that period in China. Generally, the writing is excellent, though it is not van Gulik's native language. Instead, it has that precision and deliberation that occurs from having learned all the pieces of a second language bit by slow bit.
Being judge Dee means to solve everything and from mere murder of the courtesan the deep and dangerous crimes evaporated like chloroform. It was getting more and more complicated during the book and more characters were introduced before the grand finale, when everything was solved.THe evil was uncovered and killed off. Simple. It was enjoying to read it.Nice historical detective story from fancy place and time. I think I will try another from this author.
In this tale, we find Judge Dee in his younger days as a new magistrate in Han-yuan. Three cases, all intertwined, make up the bulk of this novel. Murder, revenge, love, conspiracies, the hunger for power, courtesans, and bandits all make appearances. Solid writing, but the plot is the sort where you really do need the "And this is how I figured it all out" exposition at the end to really suss it all out. Otherwise, a fine effort and enjoyable read.
another gems from the author. This involves national security for Judge Dee in his new district. Judge Dee was against a powerful sect , white lotus. He had no friends whom he can turn to fir help.I like the intense feeling in this story.what I don't like was the first chapter. I can't seems to grasp is it about current event, past or was it just a dream.Another thing I didn't like is that Judge Dee had saved the country and yet higher up didn't was not appreciative enough.
I loved the idea, but I don’t think Robert Van Gulik’s mysteries are for me. I did enjoy this Judge Dee novel more than The Phantom of the Temple. The plot was more intricate and there was an attempt to present some stronger female characters. Still, Van Gulik seems to delight in including sordid details that add very little to the story as a whole.
A murder of a courtesan spins into political intrigue. Also in this book Tao Gan, a member Dee's inner circle, is introduced. Interesting ending that gives light to the political atmosphere of the times.
