https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144902.The_Forge_and_the_Crucible
Gah. Sure, this book treats alchemy, for around 40% of its length, but in its totality it's concerned with the religious consciousness of what Eliade precociously calls "Homo faber," or man qua tool user.
He tends to imply that parallel symbolic constructions point to universals, not in the Jungian sense, but perhaps some kind of a priori ontology that is known and expressed in religious forms around the world.
How do we account for the striking parallels between the various forms of alchemy that developed in remote civilizations?Eliade principally interprets alchemy as a sub-species of the religious concerns of Homo faber.
İnsan ateşi kontrol altına almayı başardığında çok önemli bir şey oldu; doğayı değiştirebildiğini gördü.
Bu eserden öğrendiğime göre ilk insanlar yeryüzünü, toprağı bir tür "ana" olarak gördükleri için toprağın altındaki metalleri rahimdeki embriyona benzetmişlerdi.
Demiri ve diğer metalleri işleyen, fırında pişiren, biçimlendiren demirciler ve simyacılar aslında bir nevi kendilerini zamanın yerine koyma çabasındaydılar.
Doğumu hızlandıran bir tür ebe olmak niyetleri vardı.Bu anlayışta, maddenin kusursuz hale varabilmesi için önce ölmesi gerekir.
Simyacı için deneyin kendisi, nasıl yapıldığı çok önemli değildir, o daha ziyade simgesel bir olaydır.
Demirciler ve Simyacılar'ın bu anlamda önemli bir eser olduğunu düşünüyorum.Bu arada herkese iyi seneler dilerim.
The age of this text is startling—text, not book, feels correct for The Forge and the Crucible: The Origins and Structures of Alchemy; its most common format is likely assigned-reading photocopies—as it presupposes concepts over which I felt a sense of individual proprietariness.
Alchemy is ritual, a desire to not observe but to guide: “Alchemy has bequeathed much more to the modern worlds than a rudimentary chemistry; it has left us its faith in the transmutation of Nature and its ambition to control time.” That, not the laboratory or experimental structure, is the legacy of the alchemical tradition.
He writes as a historian of religion, which means he writes about the human quest to influence and control and shape the physical world of matter.
The great mystery and power generated by this process becomes that which is spiritual.“The ‘conquest of matter’ began very early, perhaps in the palaeolithic age, that is, as soon as man had succeeded in making tools from silex and using fire to change the states of matter.
But it is clear that a thinking dominated by cosmological symbolism created an experience of the world vastly different from that accessible to modern man.
Admittedly, Eliade is kind of strange to read because the book reads like a mosaic of random facts.
Each chapter often seems like a series of vaguely related ideas, but after some thought, the book coheres decently well.
It also gives some insight into why metals are holy or sacred, and why groups like the freemasons might have the nature they do.
This text really is a treasure chest of great ideas and has given me a lot of tools to theorize about the world -- and the way we think and theorize about the world -- with.
İnsanlığın geçmişten bugüne kadar doğaya karşı galebe çalma, onun yerine geçme tutkusunu, düşünü anlatıyor Eliade kitabında. Ancak dil ve içerdiği detaylar olarak ağır bir kitap. Okurken notlar almak, üzerine düşünmek, hazmetmek gerekiyor. Aslında içeriği ve konuyu ele alış biçimi açısından çok önemli bir eser. Akademik çalışmalar için daha uygun. Notlar, kaynaklar, önerilen eserler muazzam. İnsanlığın doğanın ve zamanın yerine geçmesi için ilk yöntemlerden biri olan madencilik, demircilikten Rönesansa ve tabi ki tarih boyunca simyacılığa kadar pek çok konuyu anlatıyor, yorumluyor, özetliyor.
A thoughtful and insightful study of alchemy and metallurgy. Eliade breaks the book into two sections: 1. the structure of various myths and rituals of metallurgy and 2. the foundational structure of alchemy in the Western, Chinese, and Indian traditions. What at first seems merely like a hodgepodge collection of myths and short essays comes together when Eliade finally gets to the meaning behind alchemical structures/tenets. Well-written and deeply thought, Eliade does away with the popular belief that alchemy is merely an antecedent to modern chemistry--merely a secularization of a sacred science.
This a very anthropological account of alchemy as discourse and its evolution from tribal manifestations to present yoga traditions of all paths and cultures. Eliade is a beautiful yet factual writer. The book can get repetitive with certain motifs, but such is alchemy. I enjoyed the read like I enjoy a good PBS special.
The best Eliade so far. It shows how many realistic aspects one can find researching old metaphysics, ideology and mysticism, namely alchemical and metallurgic teachings. Power is in secret of steel. Conan, anyone?
Simyacılık ile ilgili bilgisi olmayanlar için biraz ağır bir kaynak.Ancak Eliade yararlandığı kaynaklardan da bahsederek okuyucuları araştırmaya sevkediyor. Yazarın dinler tarihine giriş kitabını da okumak istiyorum.
Like all books of Eliade, this is again rich in content. The book is an ideal introduction to the studie of the backgrounds of alchemie, its evolution and historie.
http://www.edebifikir.com/kitap/demir...
Estamos ante una de las obras fundamentales de Eliade. Como un auténtico maestro del mito, analiza el concepto de alquimia desde la perspectiva de Gea-dadora de vida. Las creencias pre-científicas acerca de los metales, entendidos como el fruto de la gestación de la madre tierra, preñada de dones, es la base de todo el libro. El herrero es entonces más que una profesión, es el privilegio de dar forma a un material sagrado que sale del vientre de la diosa tierra, el oro.

Eliade was one of the pioneering scholars in the study of religion. This book looks at the development of alchemy from the point of view of the history of religions. It is quite a good little book that makes clear a defunct but still influential esoteric tradition. This also contains a brief discussion of Carl Jung's psychological understanding of alchemy and this book is probably a good place to start before moving on to Jung's more dense work.
Though Eliade can't claim any primary fieldwork, The Forge and the Crucible offers an impressive laundry list of ethnographic profiles on practices of mining and metallurgy, contrasting established alchemical traditions and European folk beliefs, uncovering striking parallels and profound undercurrents as to the sacred nature of work, the task of healing the world and perfecting the self, and the archetypal human striving to intercede in and improve on time itself.
I like the idea of mysticism tied to things I can do with my hands like smithing or alchemy. (Moreso with smithing and metal work than alchemy.) Perhaps this is why I never could get into mass, haha.
I couldn't finish this. Maybe because I'm not that interested in alchemy. I am a bit interested, but I think I need a basics book. I read all through the "forge" part though. A couple of interesting ideas there, some connections I never would have made myself.
An interesting look at the mindset prevalent in past centuries regarding the material world and its manipulation by an infamous fascist sympathizer and hornyman.
Excellent study with particular attention to Indian and Chinese alchemy.
Brilliant and informative study of the religious aspects of alchemy, both in Europe and in Asia.
Excellent.
Read this on my Kindle.Eliade's Cosmos and History excellent.This too.
