https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/347.Off_the_Main_Sequence
The last 20 pages I was planing to skip but eventually didn't, were so enchanting and saved the day!Also there is the usual "f#%k you scientists with all your entropies and cause and effect nonsense!" talk common in other stories of the author.-----Lost Legacy: Superpowers.This reminds me of the movie Lucy, "release the hidden powers within your brain!".
Even scientists need luv ya know..-----Pied Piper: PacifistI like how the author have two general themes, Metaphysical Philosophy (Absolute Idealism?) and Politics (Pacifist, Juvenile), such a hippie lol."Men are willing to be killed in war for one reason only -that their tribe may live after them.
Obviously, heinlein is just amazing. I've always, always loved Gulf. All you Zombies hit me a good one, as did Destination Moon and both the scout stories. Even By His Bootstraps, even though I'd recently re-read it in another collection, yet held my attention. I've also reread The Puppet Masters and Time For the Stars during my holiday, so a real good mix of new arrangements and old favourites. But this collection is great, some of the stranger stuff really makes one ponder.
This was very cool. I've read the vast majority of the stories before, but there were some new ones in there. The first short stories I ever read by Heinlein as a kid were in here. It's a nice companion to "The Past Through Tomorrow".
He was light years ahead of his time (except when it came to smoking; no one could have predicted how drastically we've changed in regards to cigarettes).
Surprisingly, I've only read one of the stories in this book before.
(Side note: I actually read that one in the original pulp magazine it was published in.) There was only one story that didn't grab me.
Or the guy who uses math to see the cycles of time so he can predict disasters.
I'd talk about it here, but the whole story is a spoiler.
Just read it, all right?
Lesser known short stories by Robert Heinlein.
It's been awhile since I read any of his works, so it was nice to once again read one of the SF masters.The stories vary in quality and each reader will probably like different ones.
For younger readers, however, I remind you that you need to read many of the stories with the time frames in mind; read in the context of the historical time Heinlein was writing them (mostly the 1940s) and extrapolating the future.
Those "futures" are mostly our history now and things didn't quite work out the way he envisioned.

It might surprise some of you, but science fiction writing, historically, hasn’t paid very well.
For the majority of the 20th century, science fiction writers, even the true geniuses, had to be prolific to put food on the table.
And thank God for that.One example of why I’m happy for the hardships inherent in SF writing comes in the form of OFF THE MAIN SEQUENCE: THE OTHER STORIES OF ROBERT A.
Edited by Andrew Wheeler, this is a collection put out by the Science Fiction Book Club that pulls together the short stories that weren’t part of Heinlein’s “future history” timeline, of which STARSHIP TROOPERS is a piece.More: http://www.bookgasm.com/reviews/sci-f...
A limited edition collection of stories that aren't connected to his Future History universe. I'd read many of them before, thanks to years of used-bookstore scrounging, but still quite enjoyed the compilation. The intros by Greg Bear and Michael Cassut were nicely done and informative. In general, Heinlein's earlier stories leave me feeling upbeat (if a bit inadequate); however, the later stories were much more cautionary ("The Year of the Jackpot"), but considering what he was seeing happen around him, it's easy to understand.
A goofy story about the statues on Easter Island.Merged review:If anyone has a physical copy of this book, could you please email "My Object Most Sublime" to me? It is the only Heinlein story that I have not read. I think it is only a few pages?This book was a beast to complete, but it was my favorite out of the collection of six
I may be over-rating Off the Main Sequence, but I really enjoyed these Golden Age stories; if possible I'd have given 4.5. Most of them were originally published under one of RAH's pseudonyms and can be presumed to be not his best work, but He Built a Crooked House and By his Bootstrapsare among my favorites.
need to track this one down
Just not into these types of stories, I guess. Loved most of his novels, though.
Includes three short stories published under pseudonym Lyle Monroe that had not previously been issued in any anthologies or in book form.
An amusing little throwaway from early in Heinlein's career, giving an explanation for the giant stone heads of Easter Island.
A nice collections of short stories. I tend to prefer Heinlein's novels more. Recommended
