https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31304.Nemesis
When a letter arrives from him begging for her assistance in wrapping up the loose ends of his life, she is intrigued to oblige.Mr. Rafiel has gifted Miss Marple a spot on a motor coach tour of England's glorious homes and gardens.
As I read my first Miss Marple cases earlier this year, I thought her to be a quirky older woman.
Yet, the more cases I have read, the more I have enjoyed my time with Miss Marple.
I enjoyed rediscovering Agatha Christie this year, and each Miss Marple has was more enlightening than the last.
Miss Jane , discovers that Mr. Jason Rafiel, who worked with her in a previous case , ( A Caribbean Mystery) has passed away, he was a rich, retired army major, a wizard at finances.
Miss Marple feels evil all around the premises, a girl who lived with the three ladies disappeared ten years ago, she was found dead and a boy connected to Rafiel, was convicted and sent to prison, another missing girl, never located.
Or an attempted murder , Miss Jane Marple will need to work hard to earn her money!
Miss Marple, of the pink fluffy wool and knitting needles, has been left a bequest by Mr. Rafiel, the debilitated rich man she met during A Caribbean Mystery.
She takes some small steps on her own, although she also receives a brief post-mortem letter from him, containing little more detail except that he would like to send her on a particular coach countryside tour.It's a mildly-intriguing set-up where the reader and Miss Marple are in similar straights, waiting to discover what the mystery is.
Take, for instance, the first part of this paragraph from Miss Marple:"Mr. Rafiel had made arrangements.
Except she won't be told the who, the what, the where, or the when of the crime, only the code word "Nemesis".I feel a little guilty giving this a lower rating than A Caribbean Mystery, as it does feature a much more involving mystery, full of messed-up psycho-sexual dimensions to which Agatha Christie gives much more body than Caribbean trifle.
**MILD SPOILERS, if you don't want to know anything about what the case is** The following are words from a crime/police-psychologist, who thinks the man in question does not have the personality of someone capable of the murder of a girlfriend for which he's been convicted.
Nemesis is a fairly slow moving story, as Miss Marple is tasked with uncovering a mystery by a rich financier she had met while vacationing in the Caribbean some time before.
There is much time spent while Miss Marple gets to know a number of people while on a tour (paid for by the financier) of houses and gardens.I liked how Miss Marple deliberately played up her frailty or supposed dottiness to disarm others, so she could watch their actions and what they said.
(This novel is definitely part of its time, as there were repugnant views about rape expressed by some of the characters.
It is unsavory and disappointing.Then came the Hickson Marple.
Resembles the book very little, but not to the benefit of the filmed version.
Dismal, dingy stuff.And then came Agatha Christie's Marple, with Geraldine McEwan.
I got a BIG kick out of the book's sisters becoming Catholic Sisters.
Haw. But my irritation with the basic story makes me think of this as a squicky icky Book-of-Job level creepfest.
Like that Biblical bar bet between the divine buds to see how much one man could take before he broke, this story sets a bunch of creepy people to fighting among themselves and gets some of them killed.

This year I have been reading (or rather re-reading) all of the Miss Marple books.
Although I have one book of short stories left, this is the final novel, published in 1971 (Christie died in 1976).
Of course, Miss Marple accepts and is later invited to take a tour – to be specific Tour 37 of the Famous Homes and Gardens of Great Britain.Knowing Mr Rafiel, Miss Marple expects that she will find out what she is meant to be investigating by being herself; asking questions and being the nosy, elderly woman that everyone expects.
"ان الحب كلمة رهيبة بل لعلها من أشد الكلمات رهبة في هذة الدنيا!""الحب .. يا لها من كلمة مخيفة"رواية "الحب الذي قتل" او "انتقام العدالة" أو كما هو ترجمة إسمها الأصلي"الشئ الذي يصعب هزيمته" أو "العدو" كلها أسماء تصلح للرواية، ولكن يبقى إثارتها في طي الكتمان داخل صفحاتها. لا أريد أن أحرق الأحداث! ولكنها رواية رائعة ومثيرة.
Ships that pass in the night, and speak each other in passing; Only a signal shown and a distant voice in the darkness."I have not read The Caribbean Mystery, yet, but I somehow doubt there was such a thing in it as a blossoming romance between old Marple and Mr. Rafiel.Just as I know there is a disconnect between this utterance..."Miss Marple packed a suitcase bag, went to London, booked a room at a modest hotel – (‘Ah, Bertram’s Hotel,’ she thought in her mind, ‘what a wonderful hotel that was!"...and the fact that Marple disapproved of Bertram's Hotel by the end of the book (At Bertram's Hotel) written six years before Nemesis.
Very slow start. Good plot, though.
Turns out I'm just not a fan of Christie's 1970s novels (except for the ones she wrote years before, but which were published in the 1970s).
A lot of it was highly problematic - there was some victim blaming mixed with a few xenophobic and rascist comments and totally outdated views on women's position in society.
No idea if these were Christie's personal views (I haven't come across these problematic statements in her other books), but they definitely made me enjoy the book as a whole a lot less which would've been a very good mystery otherwise.
"Was she, Jane Marple—could she ever be—ruthless?
“D’you know,” said Miss Marple to herself, “it’s extraordinary, I never thought about it before.
I believe, you know, I could be ruthless….” Ms Marple might look innocuous, but this old lady has secret depths.
Who said being old meant stupid or indeed harmless?
Off goes Jane trying to find exactly what the old man wanted to be uncovered.There is quite a bit of repetition and if you are used to these types of stories, you may indeed find out who the murderer is.
Conservative old people with judgmental attitudes + half-assed amateur psychology = offensive and unconvincing mystery
One of my favorites of Miss Marple's stories.
He doesn't really tell her what the situation is, and his lawyers don't really know much about it.
But he sends her on a bus tour, estates and gardens tour or some such thing.
Through the course of the tour she discovers what the situation is primarily because he has also sent others on this tour to either help or give her clues.
And there is one woman who tells her about a girl who was killed and that she believes she died for Love.
This sends Miss Marple off on her chase.
How love is confused with sex, and sex for rape.Nemesis has the requisite group setting of usual suspects, whose dialogues serve to advance the story.
It is old-fashioned, certainly, but for a suspended moment in time, for the teenager who read this years ago, I believed.
Nemesis has the feel of an author’s farewell published just 2 years before her death at age 85 in 1976.
A recent GR discussion had reminded me of Nemesis and I found myself remembering its story but not the details, the feeling but not the words.
Well, I had enjoyed the story years ago, and apparently, still do.
Cuando me enfrento a libros más antiguas suelo encontrarme con dos problemas de los que trato de abstraerme, una es la diferencia de estilos de escritura.
En este libro concreto, comentarios que hay no me han dejado saborearlo bien.Al margen de eso, la trama de misterio es buena (¡cómo no!).
Me gusta el ambiente de este libro que tiene escenas sumidas en una melancólica repleta de alusiones literarias: Clitemnestra, Ofelia, Romeo y Julieta… Y la Sra. Marple está muy bien caracterizada, es una viejecita encantadora que puede parecer inocua, pero su sentido de la justicia está muy aguzado y, desde luego, su ingenio mucho más.Reseña completa: https://armasdetinta.wordpress.com/20...
إذا كُنت مفتش ذو خبرة في مجال الجريمةوحصلت على معلومات لجريمة ما للتحقيق فيها واكتشاف الجانيإنها عمل
An unusual mystery as Miss Marple is sent on a quest with no clues as to who has been murdered... I loved the atmosphere of this book which has scenes steeped in a brooding melancholy - and it's rich in literary allusions: Clytemnestra, Ophelia, Chekhov's Three Sisters, Romeo and Juliet. More disconcerting are some horrible period attitudes towards women and rape ("Girls... are far more ready to be raped nowadays... their mothers insist... that they should call it rape").It's lovely, too, to see Miss Marple bow out with a promise to have fun!
Another Agatha Christie's book that I read in just one sitting (in my mother language Portuguese). I'm in a reading marathon here in Brazil. Until 2/3 of the book, I wasn't really thrilled, however, there was a plot twist that made me feel interested to know the end of it.
This novel is like a morbid fairy-tale; Verity is Sleeping Beauty or Snow White, a princess frozen in time by a spell, eternally on her flowery bier.
And yet the prosaic solution to the murder mystery works as well--Agatha does a flawless job of solving the crime without dissipating the atmosphere.
The reader who has paid close attention to The Body in the Library and other, earlier Christie novels will likely see the significance of the TWO missing girls, Verity and Nora Broad, pretty early on.
However, I still love the novel overall.This is Miss Marple's last case chronologically, even though Sleeping Murder was published later.
The real reason I didn't finish, and the reason for the one star review, is that for much of the book Miss Marple and various other "good" characters blame young women for getting raped.
The made-for-tv remake is not bad, partly because they change a lot of the plot and partly because Marple doesn't go around rape-blaming the murdered girls.Now, I don't know if Agatha Christie felt this way herself, or if she was portraying old people as being out of touch, but I suspect these were her thoughts simply because they are repeated so often, and in several other books written around this time (early 70s) she has main characters decry modern society and the downfall of civilization brought on by women in short skirts.
Brilliant. One of the best Agatha plot hooks ever. Miss Marple gets a letter from a man she met once before. He is now dead, and his solicitor forwards a letter he left for Miss Marple. In it, he asks her to solve a crime for him. If she succeeds, she will get twenty thousand pounds. But the letter contains no actual information or firm instructions about how to proceed.... A very satisfying book!
One never KNEW with foreigners."" I've read a handful of Miss Marple stories, but generally find most of them to be lackluster compared to earlier works or other detectives.
Christie's later works – like this one – slow down, depending more on psychological musings and reflections on society taking the plot by the reins rather than action and events.Nemesis IS depressing.
Perhaps while writing this one (Christie was in her 80's), she was feeling tired herself that year and reflecting this through her work.
لغز جديد مع أجاثا ومتعة أخري تقرأها وتشعر بها تتغلغل بداخلك ..فلا صوت ولا ضوضاء ولا شئ حولك يأخذك منها ..فهي تأسرك تماما ..ليس الحبكة فقط في حل اللغز ،لا .. ولكن الرواية في حد ذاتها تستغرقك ..وتري نفسك مُهتماً .. تقلب الصفحات وتحاول تذكر الأحداث .. وتأخذ أنفاسك وتصبر وتقرأ ..ثم تراها تسبقك .. تسبقك في أفكارك ووساوسك ..ثم تُدهشك بحل لا فرار من الإعجاب به (:
ابداع وتشويق بكل ما للكلمة من معنى
Finally! I can read the plot and succeed in guessing the right perpetrator, yeay!!

In the Caribbean mystery Miss Marple meets an old man who is so impressed with her skill as an amateur detective. In his will he bequeaths some money to her if she will solve a mystery. Sounds easy enough for the Devine Miss M, but he doesn't give her any clues. Of course she does. She's Miss Marple!
Re-reading & reading all of Agatha Christie.
This one is a pleasure.
Miss Marple becomes Nemesis in a pink fluffy scarf for the second time.
Innumerable cups of tea, much knitting & thinking & twittering in an "old pussy" manner to throw sand in the eyes of almost all & sundry.
I almost always love my time in Christie's various world's, & as I grow older I appreciate how invisible and seemingly harmless we old ladies are to most of the world.
It is a pleasure to read about one who brings justice to her little corner of the world.
