https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16182.The_Favored_Child
This theme echoes throughout the whole novel and at times makes you clench your fists at the unfairness in it.
This was a wonderful historical novel but definitely not for the faint-hearted because of some shocking themes.
Wow, what is this...a trilogy about incest? At least one of the characters was a reluctant participant for this second book in the trilogy. This family has more bad karma than Oedipus. All the aristocratic decadence makes you want to cheer for the French Revolution and the guillotine. Whopping story, though, in a pervy kind of way.
It's bad. It's painful to read. I think Gregory enjoys torturing her characters a little TOO much. I read pretty well until about page 450 or so, but I just couldn't take it anymore. I skimmed the rest. I HAD to see what happened but I didn't want to actually READ it.
Celia's delusion that she didn't know reminded me so much of someone I read talking about the abuse in their childhood and that "My mother didn't know that she knew." So Celia's self-delusion, while indeed knowing, really had the ring of truth to it.* I totally feel Phillipa Gregory has cast-iron nads for making her characters so miserable for the long haul.
Let's get this train wreck of a read started. Years after the riot that led to the downfall of the Laceys, Wideacre, and Acre, the squires Richard and Julia slowly follow the footsteps their parents made. If you haven't read the first one, then you may want to remember Richard and Julia are incestual spawns of Beatrice and Lacey. Oh and they are betrothed to each other. We follow Julia's perspective on how she learns to love the land like Beatrice once did before going S&M on her brother. An
Years after the riot that led to the downfall of the Laceys, Wideacre, and Acre, the squires Richard and Julia slowly follow the footsteps their parents made.
If you haven't read the first one, then you may want to remember Richard and Julia are incestual spawns of Beatrice and Lacey.
We follow Julia's perspective on how she learns to love the land like Beatrice once did before going S&M on her brother.
If she wanted to get away from Richard, who is insane and I wished they nicknamed him Dick in the book for LOLs, she could've made it happen.
Right off the bat I was annoyed at her for not standing up for herself to Richard - a theme which continued throughout the entire book.
I even put the book down in disgust and didn't come back to it for an entire evening (gasp!) SO frustrated.
The only time I really liked her was the few months she spent in the city and met James.
I still read it in a relatively short time - which means I didn't entirely dislike the book.
I was just really really really frustrated the whole time.
But the narrator of The Favored Child is Beatrice's daughter, Julia -- the eldest Lacey spawn from Book 1 -- and she's nothing like her mother.
The most irksome aspect of The Favored Child is Julia's indoctrination into & acceptance of the abusive relationship with Richard -- she believes that indoctrination is a woman's duty, & she accepts Richard's domination as the natural course of their roles, even when his touch (eventually) disgusts her & she begins to realize the full extent of his psychosis.
She has been protecting her cousin/brother Richard for her whole life, she never tells her mother the truth and thus there is a huge void and lack of true family intimacy in the house.
Julia has the perfect opportunity so many times to tell her loving acting mother and father the truth about Richard...but she doesn't.
she chooses death for her loved ones and people because she is too weak and afraid to face the truth about Richard.
Everytime Richard's name was even mentioned I wanted to slap him.No spoilers if you have read book 1.In Book 1, Beatrice makes sure that both her children are joint heirs for Acre.
The children don't know it, but they are not really cousins as they thought they were but actually brother and sister as Beatrice and her brother Harry have a sexual relationship that produces both children.
I must say, he is the most evil character in a book that I have ever read.
Richard is always plotting and Julia and Acre are usually at the receiving end of his plans.A good read but be prepared for some troubling spots in the book.
It was the 2nd book in a trilogy.
I have since read the 1st book- Widacre and the 3rd- Meridon.
They basically make the same mistakes over and over proving that they are all idiots....who love incest apparently...anyway, the 3rd book was a little better b/c it was different than the first two and actually came to a resolution that wasn't totally idiotic as previous generations....plus no incest, thank goodness.
Maybe it was just that the trilogy was ending that made it better.
Unless you enjoy yelling at the books you read, skip these 3.
Wideacre's Beatrice was mad, but, since she was the main character, you followed her along, albeit wincingly.
They hardly seem to matter, especially John, who acts on the fringes of the plot, at best.The plot itself is adequately horrifying although much more predictable than Wideacre, especially given Julia's premonitions, which she somehow doesn't understand although any idiot (even an idiot who hasn't read Wideacre) can see what they're about.
Given the problem with predictability, I wonder if I'd have liked The Favored Child better had I read it before Wideacre.
A little past the middle of the book I was getting frustratedand di start to skim through it to see what was going to happen.It was just too difficult to read what Richard was doing.I wanted to reach into the book and strangle him.
This isn't my typical read but I've seemed to got involved in it anyways.It's a horrible book with a lot of incest and cruelty, no happy ever after butit sure puts a reader through a roller coaster of feelings and kept me reading.I think I kept reading hopeing Julia would find some happiness....Philippa Gregorywasn't on the same thought line as me though.
2nd in the trilogy. Doesn't quite grab you like the first one. Seems like the brother is one of those pups that should have been drowned at birth.Waiting to see what he does to screw up the protatagonists impending marriage.Well, Richard is just completely insane, isn't he. And, as for Julia, I just kept screaming, "tell somebody, just tell somebody." Frustrating book to read.
I loved this book. I will give a full review on it later today. Stay tuned my GoodReads friends and family. Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
The villagers came after Beatrice(who went crazy and ruined the viallage), but it's The Culler, Ralph Megson, who killed her so the angry villagers burned Wideacre Hall; John Lacey died (from a weak hear); John MacAndrew left for India; that left Celia Lacey to raise the two children, Julia Lacey and her cousin Richard MacAndrew, and to protect them from a family secret—they're sibbling/cousins.
And, Julia has also inherited the sight.To add another twist (and side story), Richard's dad, Dr. John MacAndrew (name is from page 2, "Beatrice's husband, Dr. John MacAndrew, went away to India..."), returns from India with enough money to get Wideacre out of the hole, build a new house, grow crops, and buy the family nice things again.
"The favored child. The favored child. She always was the favored child." Setting:Middlehurst, West Sussex, England; the late eighteenth centuryCoverly Love?:I don't like it as well as the first cover, but it's still pretty, so overall yes.Plot:It's been 11 years since Beatrice Lacey has ruined her beloved Wideacre. She leaves behind her daughter and son, Julia and Richard, to carry on the family name and run Wideacre. raised by their loving "Mama-Aunt" Celia, they are raised in the lands ruins
Setting:Middlehurst, West Sussex, England; the late eighteenth centuryCoverly Love?:I don't like it as well as the first cover, but it's still pretty, so overall yes.Plot:It's been 11 years since Beatrice Lacey has ruined her beloved Wideacre.
Characters:Julia Lacey is widely regarded by the villagers as the favored child; the one who is destined to take over Wideacre.
Julia was absolutely nothing like her mother, thank God. But she was also a very weak-willed character, forgiving her cousin/brother's sins way too easily and putting the blame on herself to much of the time.
Picking up where Wideare left off, The Favored Child loses no momentum as is as amazing as the first installment of Philippa Gregory’s Lacey saga.
Julia Lacey, joint heir to the Wideacre estate, tells the story of her family, her aunt Beatrice who ruined Wideacre, and her and her cousin’s, Richard, attempts to revitalize the estate again.
Love, cruelty, unexpected family legacies, and the unique magic of Wideacre permeate the pages as the specter of the Lacey’s incest emerges from an idyllic past.
Don’t miss this second installment, or the third and final book, Meridon, which concludes the Wideacre series.
Themes continue from Wideacres...The fun is in the main character's discovery of what you already know from Wideacres.
So this story is all about Julia and Richard, the illegitimate bastard children of Beatrice and Harry Lacey.
Julia inherits all of Beatrice's good traits; none of her evil ones.
She earns the respect of the Acre village, and earns the knowledge to bring the land to life.An interesting character that I did not see coming back into the story was Ralph Megson, Beatrice's lover/killer.
He is portrayed as a savior and a good person, but let us not forget that it was he who killed Beatrice's beloved father in the very first few pages of the first book.
This combination is at its absolute strongest in the book's second act when Julia Lacey is flourishing, learning to use her Lacey magic to triumphantly be everything that Beatrice should have been.
Because we've known who the true villain is from the start, we've seen the pattern of Julia being manipulated, and where the fall of Beatrice was phenomenal to experience from her own point of view in the first book, having the madness manifest in a supporting character who has so obviously been heading that way from birth comes across here as flat.
If you like Jane Austen, but wish it wasn't quite so vanilla - this trilogy is for you!Each book is the story of a daughter of the grand estate, Wideacre.
Yay!)Like most Gregory books, she explores the restrictive world of the female sex.
It's extremely relevant even today - as congress debates restrictions on corporate greed, the progressive tax system, universal health care and the role and size of government.In her other books, we watch the English monarchy and how it rules England and cares for it's resources on large scale.
A noble family uses the local village population on it's land to get everything done.
Was Beatrice's strength reflected in her ....surely if everybody in the book was repeating that readers would have noticed too?Instead we get a girl that has no will of her own and will let her bullying brother step over her despite her so called power over the village and the land.Also hard to believe was how easy scheming was for evil, little Richard and later on evil, grown-up Richard.
Sadly, I will also probably read the last book.
Despite hating the action and the characters, I kept on reading it, so if you're in for some twisted plots and characters, you might as well pick this book up.
Phillippa Gregory is a goddess!
The Wideacre trilogy is fantastic!
"Wideacre" was great, and this "The Favored Child" was very good as well.
When Julia was happily in love with James, I was happy too.
I'm excited to see what the final book in the trilogy brings.
I'm hoping there is finally a happy ending!
I have a feeling, sadly, that many people would find these stories to be slow, too wordy and descriptive, and too, well, incestuous.
But I greatly enjoyed the beautiful descriptions of Wideacre.
But Wideacre has drama alright!
And beautiful, descriptive, emotional writing to go with it.
Well done Phillippa!
That made her relatable for me, meaning that even when she did some horrific things I would never approve of, I didn't stop liking her as a character.
I didn't get that connection with the characters in this book.
Julia I found to be weak and spineless, two things I don't respect in real people or fictional characters, and Richard was just an evil, abusive creature who should've been drowned at birth.
The prose was sparkling as ever, but I just didn't follow the story as eagerly and I didn't like the people it was about.
I began reading The Favoured Child a few weeks after I finished Wideacre.
And at times I felt as if it were a tired, dragged on retelling of the first book.The author's language is maddeningly repetitive.
The book could have done a lot better without the endless descriptions of the land and the water and how beautiful and fertile and awesome it was...Like I get the point!Although it was a gripping read, and the ending was heartwrenching, I was simply tired by the mindlessly torturous, macabre treatment of the characters.
But I loved how The Favoured Child wrapped up some things from Wideacre(especially concerning Ralph), and Beatrice's appearance at the end.
I thought it was time to pick up another Philippa Gregory book.
This is the 2nd book in a trilogy about eighteenth century England and the Wideacre estate.
I love reading about this time period.
Ms. Gregory has a theme of incest in the first and now the second book, thus my guilt.
They become rivals for the love and affection of the village people who serve the Wideacre estate and this escalates into deperate acts of all kinds of nasty stuff.
In this second book in the Wideacre trilogy, Julia and her cousin Richard have grown up together among the ruins of their family estate and have always planned to marry, despite their guardians’ disapproval.
When, as a teenager, Julia begins to demonstrate a talent for working with the land and its inhabitants, Richard grows resentful.
I really wanted to strangle Julia for her stupidity at times.
Yes, she was confined within the role of women in her time, but had she told someone – anyone!
This is one of the best books I have ever read!
I just had to get to the end, so desperate was I to find out what was going to happen, and yet I dreaded finishing, for I wanted never to stop reading.
But if you enjoy darkness, you absolutely must read this book!While I have greatly enjoyed the author's books about English and Scottish royalty, I feel that this one stands head and shoulders above them.
I understand that it is the middle book of a trilogy.
I had no trouble understanding what was going on, however, and am anxious--no, hungry--to read the other two volumes.
The first book was stunning and obviously written from instinct and sensory immersion, but this one felt suspiciously like it was from the head and a plotting corkboard.
The main character felt silly and weak for no story-related reason, and the characters who were deeply complex and reasonable in Wideacre became inconsistent and silly.
It was disappointing and I couldn't finish the first few chapters.However, Gregory's writing style deserves points and points it shall have; despite the weaker plot and characters, everything is described with a lovely melody.
I found myself yelling at the book at times for this child's ignorant perception on reality.
Made it feel like that scene in the movie of the "Neverending Story" where Sebastian is in the janitors closet yelling at the characters in the book...
lol It was easy to fall into this book because of the over childish persona's of these two characters it is hard to guess what will happen around the next page.
I found myself unable to put the book down for this very reason.
