https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/984168.Roller_Skates
To explain why I recently re-read Roller Skates, it is necessary to delve into my sometime strange reading habits.
I got pretty far, too, until they all burnt up (or, more precisely were totally destroyed by smoke damage).Which leads me to Roller Skates.
As I saw, when I read it for the first time (at the ripe old age of about 23) and as I saw on my recent re-read, this is an absolutely charming book.
Then I reread it.In the broadest sense, the story goes: "10-year-old Lucinda makes friends everywhere, often while roller skating, in the NYC of 189-." This seems fine on the surface--but then you get past the surface and find the endemic racism.
That's offensive enough as it is, but as the book progresses, and Lucinda makes friends among those people clearly "not of her class," we start going back to previous instances of American racism.
who knows?--who is depicted in this completely bizarre and not at all okay Asian-exoticism sort of way.
But a book written in the mid-30s, depicting attitudes in the 1890s--I think it's accurate.
Now able to skate around New York as she likes, she goes about meeting and making friends with an interesting bunch of people, all from a very different social station ( a rag-and-bone-man, a fruit vendor, a musician, actors, and a journalist among them), people who she may not have possibly even met had she been living with her family.
While the book is essentially Lucinda’s little adventures with her new friends, it also showcases how the less privileged lived in the latter half of the 19th century—struggling to make ends meet, losing out on life’s little pleasures, and trying to escape death which rears its ugly head every so often in many forms, a battle which they don’t always win (thus making it not entirely a light-hearted children’s book).
I kept wondering if there was another book that came before, or something, because I felt like I was missing some information that the author thought I would have (like stuff about Lucinda's family).
And the weird disjointedness of some of it made me wonder if it was memoir--Wikipedia seems to confirm that--since in real life, everything doesn't make sense...
(I thought the other sad episode was handled really well.)The book also seemed really old-fashioned to me--if I hadn't known, I would have thought it was written earlier in the 20th century, like Understood Betsy or Patty Fairfield.Good, yes, but not a favorite.
While the book is essentially Lucinda's little adventures with her new friends, it also showcases how the less privileged lived in the latter half of the 19th century-struggling to make ends meet, losing out on life's little pleasures, and trying to escape death which rears its ugly head every so often in many forms, a battle which they don't always win (thus making it not entirely a light-hearted children's book).I have mixed feelings about the main character.
She may come off a bit self-absorbed but she's a rich 10-year old girl whose parents aren't around… It's kind of expected to happen.Other issues I have with this book have to be the beginning and ending.
Like Nature in Thanatopsis she spoke a various language and used it unfailingly.You can't read this book and miss how roller skates get out wild energy, allow Lucinda freedom, and more.
When Lucinda is asked to be a bridesmaid in a wedding, she asks the bride why she'd pick her because she's "homely as two toads, and the other girls are so pretty".
You're so alive and interesting - don't you think that's better than just being pretty?"I like that :)There's more I could say about this charming book -- it really did enchant me, and there are also some heavy parts in it.
Reading Grade: 4th - 6thCleanliness:Attitudes/Disobedience - 10 Incident: Lucinda "mutinied" against her parent's wishes for her to stay with her Aunt Emily.
Lucinda writes: "I think Aunt Emily's bound to stir up Heaven when she gets there.
'"I didn't know heaven was so sure,"Lucinda smiled impishly.'Conversation Topics - 5 Incidents: Mentions a tobacco shop and Lucinda is shocked at seeing a woman smoking.
This is discussed and perhaps believed by the little girl when later she sees a white gull.Parent TakeawayFor having been written in 1936, this was a shocking book.
This was the 1937 Newbery Medal winner and it must have been a slow year for children's books being published. The book had potential but was boring. The main character is your typical precocious tomboy but she had no endearing qualities to make me really like her.
Lucinda is a 10-year-old tomboy, who is given an enviable amount of freedom one year in the 1890s New York City while her parents travel abroad.
So she's not exactly subversive, just perhaps more like what an adult would want a 10-year-old girl to be than most actual girls are.Even from its point of view in 1936, this novel is set in "old New York" -- you know, back when a kid could just be a kid and people took the time to stop and talk to each other.
I hesitate to call it gratuitous, but I also struggle to understand what it contributes to the rest of the novel.As if all that weren't enough to negate the positives I find here (and the positives are genuine, so I'm not looking to cancel them out), the author takes it upon herself a few times to explain to us what it is about Lucinda that brings people together, as if she doesn't trust the strength of her own writing and characterization.
There is an I in this story who pops up a few times, including in the introduction, but who the narrator is is never explained and the infrequent intrusion of an I is distracting and sometimes maddening.I see some good read-aloud value here, so readers sharing this novel with children might take a look at it.
I picked this book up from my stack with full expectancy to be bored out of my mind.
(I know – you shouldn’t judge a book by its cover but it was pink…) I thought this would blow my tomboyish personality to madness.
Lucinda is left to stay in the states while her stuck-up parents travel Italy and Europe.
Lucinda defies the very aristocratic nature of her name by preferring to ride her roller skates and chat with strangers.
It’s always good to read something a little different but as far as I’m concerned this is just another book crossed off my list
A wonderful story about a little girl living in New York City around 1890. Her parents travel to Italy and Lucinda is left to live with Miss Peters and Miss Nettie, not horrible Aunt Emily. Lucinda more or less has the run of the neighborhood, meeting anyone and everyone she finds on the street. Her freedom is what allows the book to seemingly take us back to our own childhood. If only we could be free and creative like Lucinda. A very well-written Newbery from 1936.
With no plot whatsoever, the book merely follows the whims of impish Lucinda, who skates all around 1890s Manhattan, making friends and generally being a busybody.
She shmoozes with an Asian “princess” who is (view spoiler)[STRAIGHT-UP MURDERED - a plot point that is literally dropped two pages later, despite the fact that it’s Lucinda who discovers the body (hide spoiler)].
It’s no surprise when (view spoiler)[the child gets violently ill and dies - something that everyone, including the parents, get over with alarming speed (hide spoiler)].
If this were a series, I'd read every last book in it just to see what kind of nutso plot point was thought of and immediately discarded next.
Lucy is an extremely amusing, well-meaning and congenial girl, and OK, I admit it, the plot made me cry at the end. Warmly recommended for all over the age of ten. I've ordered the sequel, "The Year of Jubilo".
1937 Newbery MedalI can't figure out why I didn't like this book more. 2 Newbery Medals in one day..a #nerdbery first?
I realize this book doesn't look interesting at all.
It has a bad title and a bad cover.
It's a surpringly complicated look at a life-changing year in the life of a young girl, in which she is "inoculated" against the prejudices of her time and class (upper class in the 1890s) by her free-spirited experiences and friendships with a variety of people.
What takes it from good to great are the weird fissures of darkness, like when she has to deal with the deaths of two of her friends, and the moments she realizes that her freedom and her relationships are tenuous.
Young Lucinda explores 1890’s New York City on her roller skates, making new friends in an unforgettable year of (relative) freedom. I enjoyed rereading this book as an adult not just for Lucinda’s escapades and doings, but also for the subtle insight into the characters and the glimpses of late nineteenth century New York.
Some reason I didn't enjoy this. It was really difficult to read--at least when I read it is was. It was awhile ago. I probably should try to read it again and see what I can get out of it! ;)
Newbery re-read. And one of the earliest Death by Newbery's. No real beginning, abrupt ending. But Lucinda's year basically along at age 10 in New York City in the 1890's is always fun and always fascinating. It is hard to believe the kind of freedom she had at 10, that kid's these days barely have at 16. And the people she meets, the friends she makes all feel real. And we get to see what minorities look like to someone of the day. Pleasant and interesting if not insightful. 3.5 of 5.
I’ve seen Lucinda described as a tomboy, but I wouldn’t necessarily agree – she’s proper in her own way, she is a lady, she just doesn’t want people like Aunt Emily telling her what to do.
I know Lucinda doesn’t mean any of her goodness to have any ill effects, but is she selfish with her ambitions to keep the world perfect, or is she just headstrong & a good-natured girl?Lucinda’s realization that after her year alone, she could never go back to either of her lives – the one before her parents left, and that she can never have this New York life again, not after the death of the Princess or Trinket, not after leaving.
While there are no major historical events at the heart of the story, the entire book is a study on a bygone era that tells kids what they really want to know about the past: what it was like to live day-to-day life and how it was different from today.Roller Skates is a wonderful book, but perhaps not the most appropriate for a sensitive reader.
The book absolutely handles these scenes well, and I would not keep the book from my own children, but I do want to be sure to suggest it to them at a time when I think they are prepared to feel the sadness of those moments without being turned off to reading other sad stories in the future.
She is 10 years old, but there are probably few 10-year-olds who would understand the many references to clothing, literature, culture, or the meanings of colloquial expressions of the book's time period (late 1800s) and probably fewer older readers who would really like to read about a 10-year-old.
Not much happens in the story, then all of a sudden Lucinda does something completely out of character, which is immediately followed by (though is completely unrelated to) her witnessing something horrific.
But the way Lucinda loves these people is an indication that the author was not intending to offend.
I like the idyllic atmosphere of the book, but at times I found my interest in it fading.
One day, Lucinda goes to visit a friend of hers, a Chinese lady married to a rich American.
People just DON'T get murdered in these kinds of books!
I bet Lucinda's going to be really sad for the next chapter or so..." Well, most of these questions and predictions didn't seem to be resolved in the book.
Seriously, I think the murder was referenced ONCE over the course of the following chapters, and Lucinda didn't seem to spend much time feeling terribly sad, which didn't seem realistic to me.
Wealthy, 10-year old Lucinda is “orphaned,” as she joyfully calls it, for a year with two spinster teachers while her parents travel to Italy for her mother’s health.
Lucinda’s friends whom she meets, visits, and whom we also learn to know include her neighbors, teachers, a local policeman, a hansom cab driver, a fruit vendor’s son, and many other interesting people.
The parts are honest enough: the book is a fictionalized memoir by Ruth Sawyer about a similar year when she was ten years old and equally happily “orphaned.” A Wikipedia-look at Sawyer’s interesting, impish face with her bright eyes, from a picture taken about the time she wrote this Newbery, made me believe that she greatly loved her adventures and her memories and especially her freedom of that time, that year with her roller skates.
I was delighted to open this book and find Lucinda pop exuberantly off the page.
A hundred pages in, I was still waiting.
The book ended while I was still wondering and waiting.
True, there were sad deaths of close friends, but they happened so late after so few events and so little conflict that they ended up feeling strangely out of place from the very lighthearted tone of the rest of the story.I have always held the opinion that the characters are the most important element in a story.
Must keep going!” but the book kept stretching on, that elusive final page staying just out of reach.
Not that that final page was satisfactory, either, even after all that work and waiting.
This book has a couple of winning features: Lucinda is a star of a heroine, with her roller skates, "tantrums," and open, affectionate nature; the setting in 1890's Manhattan is truly a joy to read about; many of the (myriad) minor characters are engaging as well.
How on earth can an author justify murdering a supporting character, never explaining who did it, and then having the child-hero go about their daily business as though nothing happened?
I'm not even going to get into the messed-up Orientalist crap that accompanied the murder--suffice it to say, it all came out of nowhere and went nowhere very quickly.It's too bad that the plot stinks so much, because Lucinda had potential!
Lucinda is a tomboy growing up in the late 19th century, which is a story that has been written again and again and again.
Lucinda makes a lot of friends, in the city, and that’s basically the story.
It was kind of just a random murder to give the story some semblance of a plot.
Like I said before, it wasn’t a bad read, but there had to have been better books published in 1936.
It probably wouldn’t have been published at all today (which might have actually been a shame) but it definitely wouldn’t have won the Newbery.
And yet this abuse story is not told directly but, rather as the shadowy frame around a single year in Lucinda's life--the year her parents leave her with a school teacher and the teacher's sister, to go off to Italy.
(Right there--how much can they care about the child to so casually leave her for an entire year in an age with out easy phone contact let alone e-mail or Skype?)During this wondrous year, Lucinda is free to skate all across Manhattan, making adoring friends from one end of the island to the other.
I read this as a child and loved it.
I enjoyed reading it again.
A young girl is left with one of her school teachers while her parents travel to Italy for her mother's health.
A sweet, old fashioned story.2017Read it with the kids as part of our goal to read all the Newbery Award books.
E said: I loved the story.
Lucinda is a girl I would like to be friends with.
Then when Trinket dies, I like how the doctor slowly explained to Lucinda that Trinket was like a sea gull, flying up to heaven.
I didn't like that so many of Lucinda's friends had to die.
I first read this in middle school in about 1974 and really enjoyed it.
It was a glimpse into a totally unknown life for me: New York City in the 1890s, when little girls could safely walk (or skate) to school alone or spend the day in the park with another child friend, make adult friends and visit them, etc.
We read of her adventures and misadventures, from mounting a puppet-theatre production of The Tempest to learning about the bigger issues of life and death.
I re-read it not long ago, and adults will find things in it to enjoy the second time that went unpercieved at the child's level.
