https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18079804-half-bad
Do you know a story that goes something like this >>>> There's a poor family consisting of a mother and her bunch of kids, each one from a different father.
Everyone has their eye on that kid his whole life, expecting him to become just like his father, watching for his first mistake.
And no one will ever know if that kid was always his father's son or if the other people in his life made him that way.Half Bad is, in many ways, that story.
"...it’s the name of the most evil Black Witch there has ever been.”I want to say “Marcus.” He’s my father and I want to say his name, but I’m too afraid. I’m always too afraid to say his name. Oh, hi, Voldemort!This book is Snape: The Teenage Years. Only without much magic. WHERE'S MY MOTHERFUCKING MAGIC? Is it too much to ask for magic in a book about WITCHES?! If I'm going to read Dracula, I want some fucking vampires, and I want them to suck the bloody hell out of some humans. If I'm going
"...it’s the name of the most evil Black Witch there has ever been.”I want to say “Marcus.” He’s my father and I want to say his name, but I’m too afraid.
If I'm going to read about witches, I want some fucking hocus pocus shit, ok?This is basically the story of Harry Potter's Severus Snape, if Voldemort had been his daddy.
His other siblings, Deborah, and Arran, love him, but that's not enough when he knows that the entire Witch world hates him for his father's blood.
I really enjoyed the first 50 pages and the last 50 pages, but everything in between was underwhelming. I'm going to do a full video review to share more of my thoughts, so look out for that! :)
Like, we're not reading about Nathan.
afjdksaldjklafsdk(NOTE: The audiobook is fantastic.)ORIGINAL REVIEW: MARCH 2014Look, I'm going to be blunt here (I can't help it):  Half Bad  had all the potential of pure freakish genius in it's 380-pages.
Yes, that's right, peoples, I bloody love this book!
I like the whole "good vs bad" thing happening -- because is it ever that clean cut?
Seriously, I was freaking out at all the stuff they inflicted on Nathan.
The things they put Nathan through...why?
I felt like the book was looking at the concept of:  if you don't understand it, kill it with fire.
Plus, it promised meA world divided between black and white witches and those in the dark side are tortured and murdered.
I'm having a Deja Vu here....So how cool would it be to read a book about little Snape whose father is Voldemort?It would be awesome but I'm still waiting for it because this book has nothing with the amazing world of J.K.At first I was surprised by the writing style.
Also, at some point the inner dialog got into a loop where we had nothing new.But wait, in this magical world that was one thing that disappointed me most.
So it's a good thing this book was nothing like Harry Potter.Upon finishing Half Bad my first thought was, "HOLY SHIT!", so I went to Goodreads to see what everyone else thought.
He desperately wants to be accepted and not judged purely on his parentage, but no matter how hard he tries, the Council of White Witches continue to send restrictions:-Any contact Nathan has with a white witch has to be reported-He goes to the council for yearly assessments, where he is questioned about the father he's never met-He can't have his Giving Ceremony with out permission (Think: Rite of Passage for Witches)-He can't travel anywhere without first having permissionIt gets pretty ridiculous with the amount of rules place on a child, but the Council has their prejudices, and it's clear they don't plan to let up.
I wasn't expecting to like it but I actually found it really enjoyable and really quick! A nice surprise!
Boredom quickly followed, until I was unfortunately underwhelmed by the anticlimactic ending.
Young and unfortunate to have been born the son of a notorious Black Witch; a fact that makes him a leper, someone to be hunted down and caged.
We learn that, even though he's highly intelligent in many ways, he's not exactly book smart.
For the most part, however, the book is told through first person present, where Nathan narrates his own gruesome story.
It's as much a book about witches, as it is a moving story about a young boy learning to survive in a cruel world.
OMG OMG OMG !this book was super good! i loved it so very much! i am really loving the building of the characters and relationships! i hope in the next book magic will be seen more ! :D
Nathan, however, is unique because he is half good and half bad, his father is the most notorious black witch alive and his mother is dead.
I enjoyed this book overall, especially the first half.
In the first half of the novel Green focuses on giving a very detailed back story of Nathan, some would say this part was too slow, but personally I enjoyed the pacing.
Overall this book was a very interesting, and fast read.
I was hooked from page one, and I will be reading the next book.
I read a lot of fantasy, much of that lot from the contemporary masters of the field (Sanderson, Rothfuss, Williams, Rowling etc.) I have been well immersed in the fantasy genre, and as spoiled as it may sound, have come to expect greatness in the fantasy that I choose to read.
"Half Bad" delivered more than greatness.
It delivered a feeling to me that I haven't come across since reading Rothfuss's "The Name of the Wind." I literally could NOT put "Half Bad" down.
I'm sure I'll be turning this story and its messages over and over in my mind until the next book in the trilogy comes out.I will most definitely be championing "Half Bad." As soon as it's available, go buy two copies.
OH MY GOD SO EPIC. Loved every word of it. Full review is on its way.
I'M HAVING A GIVEAWAY FOR ALL THREE BOOKS IN THE SERIES AND A TOTE BAG ON MY BLOG SO COME ON OVER AND ENTER!MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListNathan, poor Nathan.
The counsel were always having Nathan come in to be assessed to see if he had more of the white gene or the black gene but they never could determine it.
I'm telling you though, a lot of the white witches in this book are some evil people.
I mean yeah, you want to do away with anything that is evil but them torturing people if they even have black witch blood is a little much.
Pages in which nothing happens, others in which the hell happens, but my attention is already drifting in a sea of "let's guess how much f**k I give between none and none minus the number of pages of this book".•The writing tries to be original, but actually it's simply dull.
Criminally dull.•The characters are duller than the writing, and that takes talent.
That takes talent too.•The world building: the world is divided between fains (muggles, that is), Black Witches and White Witches.
Sorry, I think I missed the part where I had to be impressed and clap my hands in delight.•The only thing I liked?
The book is very predictable so it also should come as no surprise that he gains them from his father, a *gasp* Black witch.I have a problem with these terms: “Black” and “White” witches.
While there is some backstory provided about how they came about, the fact that there is a serious lack of clarity, ironically over something black and white, seems ill thought out.Further, the writing is unpolished, and by that I mean rough.
And by that I mean plenty of errors and entire passages that seemed like more of an outline than actual storytelling.

Con una trama que puede sonar típica, Sally Green presenta un personaje principal realmente bien construido y una historia que al final, es más profunda de lo que parece.
Al ser una relectura, recordaba ciertas cosas que me marcaron.
Aun y todo, había pasajes de los cuales no recordaba nada y que me han impactado igual.
La autora no tiene pelos en la lengua y habla de torturas y sangre sin importarle nada (y bien que hace, oye).
El estilo, sin embargo, es lo que consigue que El lado oscuro se convierta en algo más grande.
La autora consigue dar la sensación de agobio continúo y es algo complicado de hacer durante 400 páginas.
If there's anything Half Bad by Sally Green has, it's definitely an interesting and intriguing premise. Now, let me tell you it's hard to make me excited for any Paranormal book, but that's simply because I hold this particular genre in very low regard. I am not a fan of it, not by a long shot, but having been proven wrong again and again by such spectacular PNR books (Written in Red and The Diviners), I will not say "no" to one that has been deemed great by my peers, and especially not to this
Because his father is a famous White Witch killer, Nathan is ostracized and looked down upon by the rest of the WW community; WW kids are warned not to talk to him, the Council (which is kind of the overbearing authority of the WW) keeps on releasing decrees limiting the things he can do, and he gets bullied every chance the others get.I really felt for Nathan because I understood what he was going through.
Around the middle of the book until the end, it felt like I was reading the story of an all-new different person.
Poor Nathan just got tormented, put down, and generally mistreated his entire life.This book for me seemed to be about racism?
Nathan’s life seemed to go from bad to worse, and the things that happened to him were just unforgivable.This book was written a little oddly though, the writing style was quite unusual, and while I appreciated the fast pace, we hit a bit at around the 60% mark which was just boring and felt like it would never end!There was a hint of romance in this, but not a lot.
The writing style is so cool and I really like how the timeline is set up.
His journey is so intriguing and interesting, I just had to keep reading to know more.The world is also great because I felt everything is explained nicely and it's not very confusing.
I just think it is so cool!This story is definitely character based and the reader is deep inside Nathan's head.
The story and writing really involves the reader and at times switching to second person and using "you".
The author does a wonderful job of making you think about these things.Definitely worth the read!
*3.5/5 I had some issues with this first book, but I'm excited to see where the series goes!
buddy read with my fav, Christine :)i don't think i've ever seen such mixed reviews?and it's not even like people who just hate it or love it- there's literally a perfect mix of 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 stars? weird... but anyway, not reading any reviews so i don't get spoiled or become biased~*~wish us luck!!- - - - - HI WHERES BOOK TWOsO many questions
Only like the last 25% of the book at the end was a bit enjoyable.
It's a bit plotless.I know I said I appreciated the language but by 30% into the book I started to get annoyed by it.
Yeah it bit me in the back!
Oh and not forgetting a lot of this book had lots of pointless lines like what Nathan's doing repeatedly.
I honestly think it was a great start to the series and I know it will improve.(view spoiler)[ l liked the part where the guy is telling Nathan abt his tattoos.
Maybe book 2 will be better.
LIGHTNING STRIKES EVERY TIME I WRITE A REVIEW OOOOHHOOO OHHOOO HOOOO(I think this was funny??)Things I liked!•I loved the writing style.
Now, I know I am a really fast reader and I can read a book in day, but 12 hours is insane even for me lol.
I love to paint and do artsy stuff so I was so happy to see that he had a hobby!•This emotionally drained me and that should be a bad thing but like still?•I always love books which talk about the topic that what is evil and what isn’t.
Half Bad is a young adult fantasy novel that seeks to be "grittier" than typical YA fare. It succeeds, in part, but is bogged down by the typical angst-y relationships and fairly predictable plot.I think most readers agree that the opening is the best part of Half Bad. It is a bit of a downhill ride from there.
The story was pretty good, the characters were decent, but it was kind of downgraded by the writing style.
Glad I gave it a go though, and again, I definitely wouldn't say it was bad, it's just not the kind of story I like.
If you don't mind this kind of writing style, it is a pretty good story.
The ending was good, I liked it, and it admittedly would set up the next book nicely.
The book was fine though, the story was good, the characters were decent, the pace was good, overall though just not the kind of book for me.
It will be hard for me read other YA novels this year that do not live up to this level of storytelling and craftsmanship and I imagine my DNF list to grow exponentially because of it.Half Bad is as good, if not better, than most of the adult fantasy I read.
This book is excellent and I have no doubt that it will become the huge deal it deserves to be.
Sally Green has written an entertaining, smart and epic first novel and I am going to find it impossible to wait for book 2.
Neresinden başlasam...Eğer bu kitabı yorumlarına güvendiğim arkadaşlar bu kadar sevmeseydi 'çok satılması için yapılıyor' falan derdim.
(hatta demişim gibi bişey) 48 ülkeye satılacak, film hakkı daha çıkmadan alınacak hiçbir şey görmedim.
(Hatta yazarın sümük, balgam, sidik, kusmukla falan gizli kapaklı bir ilişkisi olduğunu düşünüyorum.) Ayrıca çocuğun niyeti yamuk.
Sonunun bir diğer iyi yanıysa devam kitaplarında büyüler falan olacak gibi bitti.Çok temkinli yaklaşın diyorum.
Çok sevenlerde var ama şahsen nefret ettim.
Ayrıca Yiğit'le (Davutoğlu) kitap çıkmadan önce bir konuşmamız oldu.
Ona bu kitap hakkında 'bence hiçbir numarası yok, çok satılması için yayın evlerinin pazarlama stratejisi bu' tarzında şeyler söylemiştim.
I cattivi sono perseguitati dagli Auror (qui 'cacciatori').Abbiamo l'orfano predestinato, e una miriade di tangenze che scavallano da un libro all'altro e credo contribuiscano a rendere Half Bad credibile (perché l'eco potteriana resta nelle orecchie e se uno dice 'la mia specialità è Pozioni' non abbiamo bisogno di altro per seguire la storia).L'idea originale di questo libro è che l'eroe è il 'cattivo'.
Che i bianchi che cercano di proteggere la comunità lo fanno calpestando i diritti fondamentali degli individui, che l'idea di estirpare con violenza il male rende i 'buoni' peggiori dei 'cattivi'.Half Bad è un romanzo sulle minoranze, sul diverso, sull'emarginazione e sulla forza di volontà.
The downfall of this book is its lackluster plot.
But as the book went on, the limitations of the plot revealed themselves - imagine Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows and all the running around and hiding, but without the friendships, the deep back story and the big showdown in the end.
What's left is a lot of going from one place to another and meeting various underdeveloped characters with a very clear and rather uninteresting end point (it's not a spoiler - finding the main character's father).
I am curious to see if this novel will be as big as its publishers expect it to be.
