https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63432.3001
It is the fourth and final book in Clarke's Space Odyssey series.3001 follows the adventures of Frank Poole, the astronaut killed by the HAL 9000 computer in 2001: A Space Odyssey.
It is determined that following the events of 2010: Odyssey Two and 2061: Odyssey Three, the Jovian monolith had sent a report to its superior monolith 450 light years away, and is expected to receive its orders toward humanity after the nine-century round-trip.
The monolith does receive orders to exterminate humanity, and starts a duplication cascade, whereupon millions of monoliths form two screens to prevent Solar light and heat from reaching Earth and its colonies.
3001: The Final Odyssey is ultimately a flawed book, written to end a series which has sadly become increasingly redundant.
Clarke was a phenomenally good scientist with a lively imagination and the ability to craft very readable novels.3001 is the 4th and final volume in Arthur C.
I have to admit to not having read the middle 2 books, but since Arthur C.
but not necessarily happening in the same universe.” Hmm.The starting point for this series was a short story by Arthur C.
The novel we are looking at now, 3001: The Final Odyssey was written in 1997 (and reviewed here in 2013).
Dr.Heywood Floyd is not in this novel.Even the eternal, good doctor, can't live 1,000 years.But Frank Poole, that's a horse of a different color.Frank's body is floating, floating,being pushed out into the limitless universe.Gently moving up and down,twisting, tumbling,passing numerous distant planets,asteroids,rocks.Even an occasional comet.Unseen in the darkness ,in a calm peaceful sleep.Leaving the troubled Solar System behind.What dreams he must have had.But this heaven ends,when Captain Dimitri Chandler(what a name), of the space tug Goliath.Finds and resuscitates Frank.The first thing they ask the undead Poole is, who was Batman and why did he wear a mask?
The Odyssey series is, unfortunately, one of these.
However, what little personality he had in 2001 must have never been revived, because he is easily the most boring character in the series.Not that the characters have ever been the high point of the Odyssey series, with the exception of maybe Hal and Dave.
3001 attempts to change up the formula, happily turning in its space suit for a more boring 'life-in-the-future' story.
It's unfortunate that Odyssey ends on such a low point, when the first two were so good and the third passable.
Fourth and the final book in the Space Odyssey saga.
Unlike in Book three (2061), which lacked anything about the advancements in technology, this book makes up for it, totally!Frank Poole's experiences after returning back a millennia later, into Star City, a ringed structure at the Geostationary Earth Orbit connected to Earth by four Space Towers at the Equator, and his learning of changes that have happened within the thousand years, made it an awesome read.
I wish there were more books in this Space Odyssey series.
I'd much rather tell you about this book than have you suffer through reading it.)So, it's the year 3001.
For poorly explained reasons, Frank decided to try and contact Dave Bowman, by landing on Europa.
Frank is now the only being in conact with the only being who can contact the Monolith.
It works, humanity is just barely saved from destruction, but Dave's consciousness is still infected with the viruses he delivered and so cannot be contacted.
Frank goes on with his life, missing his old friend.
In 2061, the Dave/Hal/Monolith entity thing downloaded a copy of Heywood Floyd.
I jos jedna knjiga koju mi je tesko oceniti.
Sa jedne strane imamo odlican opis moguce buducnosti (vrlo pozitivna buducnost) prikazane kroz oci nekoga ko dolazi iz naseg vremena.
Ideje i nivo detalja u tom delu su odlicni iprosto raspiruju mastu.Ali u druom delu knjige dobija se utisak da gosn Klark nije imao cistu viziju sta je uopste hteo da kaze sa knjigom pa citava prica ima nekako nedoreceni osecaj.
Plus di je nestao Hejvud Flojd?Ipak knjiga daje dosta odgovora ne mnoga pitanja iz prethodnih delova u nekom smislu kraj je takav da je na citaocu da razmisli sta je moguce, mada licno nisam fan takvih krajeva.Ipak sve u svemu bilo je zabavno iskustvo sa puno maste tako da, po meni, citav serijal je i te kako vredan citanja.
While Dave Bowman ended up an immortal extraterrestrial hybrid with the powers of a god, poor Poole ended up left for dead and floating off into the cold vacuum of space.Left for dead, but not - as we discover at the start of the fourth and final Space Odyssey story - actually dead.
His body frozen into an effective state of hibernation, Poole floats unconscious around the galaxy for a thousand years before being picked up and successfully resuscitated.What must it feel like to fall asleep and wake up a millennium into the future?
AND WHAT A WASTE OF TIME!!!!
Honestly I can't understand how even got published.
No identifiable Lead character in most of the books, no clear objective for what lead there was, the books meander around for the most part with dated and ludicrous speculation and no confrontation until the end, and what there was of a knockout closing seemed to appear out of nowhere.
Internal conflict in the major characters/protagonist was minor and facile.Again what I recommend is DO NOT read any part of this series...complete waste of time.
Hope there is a hell so he's burning in the lake of fire reserved for failed, but published, authors.
A great ending of a series. And it's even more astonishing that Arthur C. Clarke managed to end his famous series by writing an utopia, which is not so very common a genre, isn't it? It's short, but it's really well done and the reason of taking us to the year 3001 is brilliant. Certainly 3001 is as good as 2001.
-- warning, serious spoilers --After reading the ending of the Rendezvous with Rama series I was expecting Clarke to pretty much end things the same way, on a magnanimous upnote.
In the end the monolith is destroyed with a virus, but sends off a last scream to the makers before it fizzles offline, so humanity knows it's got a thousand more years before the makers realize the first attempt to kill us failed, so there's some unspoken hope that maybe we can organize a defense in the interim, or bake them a planet-sized "please don't kill us" cake, or suck up to the europans so they'll give us a recommendation or something.
Copy pasting from previous books instead of writing new descriptions, progressing the story only on the last 30-40 pages and closing this awesome series with a bland ending. Needless to say, it was a kind of a let down, unlike the first and second books which were AMAZING. I seriously hope that Clarke doesn't do the same "mistakes" in his other books because I seriously enjoy his writing style and subjects.I'm giving it 3 stars instead of 2 because of Clarke's presentation of future humanity, and because of some interesting notes written by the author.
Clarke no pretende (o al menos eso creo yo) ser un escritor de ciencia ficción que vaticina el futuro, sencillamente juega con la imaginación y con lo que podrían ser los avances tecnológicos pasados los siglos y lo hace de una manera tan buena que lo es completamente creíble y eso es lo que convierte a esta saga algo completamente fuera de serie dentro del género.Sin duda son libros que vale la pena leerse, la aventura, la forma de vida planteada y el desarrollo del avance no solo tecnológico sino social planteado es sorprendente y una lectura obviamente mucho más allá de entretenida.
با اون وضعی که کتاب سوم تموم شد، انتظار داشتم این کتاب بلافاصله در ادامهٔ اون باشه.
ولی داستان کتاب چهارم، ده قرن بعد از کتاب سومه و حتا به وقایع اون کتاب وفادار هم نیست.
برای مثال در انتهای کتاب سوم خوندیم که لوسیفر خاموش میشه، ولی در این کتاب همچنان داره به ستارگی خودش ادامه میده.
نمیتونم بگم اگه کتاب رو نميخوندم بهتر بود،ولی واقعاُ از کلارک انتظار بیشتری داشتم.البته در این کتاب هم به قدر کافی عناصر فلسفی و تفکرزا وجود داشت که شاید کسی فکر کنه این نمرهٔ پایین در شأنش نیست، ولی از اونجایی که رو
برای مثال در انتهای کتاب سوم خوندیم که لوسیفر خاموش می‌شه، ولی در این کتاب همچنان داره به ستارگی خودش ادامه می‌ده.
نمی‌تونم بگم اگه کتاب رو نمي‌خوندم بهتر بود،‌ولی واقعاُ از کلارک انتظار بیش‌تری داشتم.‫البته در این کتاب هم به قدر کافی عناصر فلسفی و تفکرزا وجود داشت که شاید کسی فکر کنه این نمرهٔ پایین در شأنش نیست، ولی از اون‌جایی که روایت داستان برای من از هرچیزی مهم‌تره، تصمیم گرفتم به خاطر اون نکات هوشمندانه‌ای که در باب حریم شخصی می‌گه، نمره رو بالاتر نبرم و به همین سه ستاره کفایت کنم.
For this current generation reared on CGI animation and blockbuster special effects and IMAX, it’s hard to articulate the feeling of this Clarke/Kubrick classic as it moved across the big screen.
As the final story opens we are a thousand years into the future from where the failed Discovery mission ended with Frank Poole being ejected from the spacecraft by Hal and the transformation of Dave Bowman into the star child.
But, those of you who share my sense of wonder over the world of the monoliths, Dave Bowman and Hal will still find something worthwhile in 3001 The Final Odyssey.
Regardless, the story within the novel is the important thing, yes?For this final outing, having exhausted the surviving cast of 2001, Clarke manages to bring back the dead one, Frank Poole, who had been drifting through the solar system for an entire millennium.
Apparently that experience involves technology and physics; lots of it!Every chapter, and indeed the entire book, seems to end more quickly than it should, so that you never get a sense of what it's like to live in this world of the future, except that you'll probably be doing it in a giant space elevator tower, or maybe on a moon somewhere.
For imperfect human beings, the least-worse answer was Democracy, frequently defined as “Individual greed, moderated by an efficient but not too zealous government"But really, the life on Europa and the images and thoughts like this (also there in 2061 Odyssey I know) really made me feel out of this world.
A purely aerial culture might develop, but in an environment where fire was impossible, and solids scarcely existed, it could never even reach the Stone Age."The idea of a Braincap is great.
সপেস ওডিসি সিরিজের এটিই শেষ বই। কিনতু বাকি বইগুলোর মতো ততটা উততেজনা এই বই দিতে পারেনি। আসলে তো এই বই ২০০১ এর ধারেকাছেও নেই। বইটার ভাষা পরায়ই দুরূহ ঠেকেছে। বুঝতে অসুবিধে হয়েছে। অনুবাদও তেমন ভালো না। বৈজঞানিক ইংরেজি শবদের সঠিক পরতিশবদ বুঝে নিতে বেগ পেতে হয়েছে। কিনতু এই বইয়ের শেষের দিকে একটুখানি টান আছে। বাকি ৩ বইয়ে পাঠক নিশচয় আশাহত হয়েছিলো, সেই আদিম মহাকাশচারীদের পূরণ পরিচয় না পেয়ে। এই বইয়ে সে আকষেপ ঘুচবে। আর আশা করাই যায় আগামী দশক অথবা শতকে এসব পরযুকতি আর কলপনা সরেফ বইয়ের পাতায় বা কমিকস হিসেবে থা
স্পেস ওডিসি সিরিজের এটিই শেষ বই। কিন্তু বাকি বইগুলোর মতো ততটা উত্তেজনা এই বই দিতে পারেনি। আসলে তো এই বই ২০০১ এর ধারেকাছেও নেই। বইটার ভাষা প্রায়ই দুরূহ ঠেকেছে। বুঝতে অসুবিধে হয়েছে। অনুবাদও তেমন ভালো না। বৈজ্ঞানিক ইংরেজি শব্দের সঠিক প্রতিশব্দ বুঝে নিতে বেগ পেতে হয়েছে। কিন্তু এই বইয়ের শেষের দিকে একটুখানি টান আছে। বাকি ৩ বইয়ে পাঠক নিশ্চয় আশাহত হয়েছিলো, সেই আদিম মহাকাশচারীদের পূর্ণ পরিচয় না পেয়ে। এই বইয়ে সে আক্ষেপ ঘুচবে। আর আশা করাই যায় আগামী দশক অথবা শতকে এসব প্রযুক্তি আর কল্পনা স্রেফ বইয়ের পাতায় বা কমিক্স হিসেবে থাকবেনা। বাস্তবায়িত হবে।
Es complicado valorar esta novela como una obra independiente porque en realidad no es más que el epílogo a la historia que comenzó 30 años antes, con 2001.
Es agradable también asistir a su reencuentro con sus dos compañeros de misión, uno (entonces) humano y otro mecánico y saber un poco más de los monolitos y de quienes los enviaron.
Tal vez dentro de unos años (o siglos) alguien se anime a imaginar cuál habrá sido la respuesta de los creadores de los monolitos al informe que sus balizas les enviaron al final de esta novela.

Nah, this particular volume has nothing to do with 2001 or its events, except for sharing certain names. It is a futuristic vision of earth: rather alluring, but not very likely to materialise in near future. After the highs of the first few books in the series, this was definitely a damp squib.
Thankfully, it's better-written than those, but Dr. Clarke won't be remembered as a prose stylist.The plot outline is familiar by now - Frank Poole is revived after a thousand years as a cryo-corpse - flung into space in 2001 by the malevolent HAL.
He marvels at the Wonders of the World of 3001, and gets reaquainted with Dave Bowman - and HAL - within the great Europa monolith.
Four great towers support a Star City ring around the world.
Clarke and Kubrick started working on "2001" in 1964, using "The Sentinel" as a starting-point.
I have mixed feeling about this book.There's this thought provoking thing I came across when I read this book. HAS IT EVER OCCURRED IT TO YOU THAT WE MIGHT BE THE SUBJECT OF SOME EXPERIMENT PERFORMED BY INTELLIGENT SPECIES TO SEE HOW INTELLIGENT LIFE WOULD FLOURISH AND TURN OUT TO BE ON SOME PLACE, GIVEN THE FAVORABLE ENVIRONMENT BECAUSE THEIR ONLY OBJECTIVE IS SOWING THE SEEDS OF INTELLIGENCE IN THIS UNIVERSE? Perhaps this is one thing that will prevail to you during or at the end of this book.
Perhaps this is one thing that will prevail to you during or at the end of this book.Sometimes, author brings the dialogues or text from prequels, which is so boring coming across the same subject matter again but other times, the text gets so interesting!I haven't read that much science fiction books, but reading upon 2001 series, I can tell, technologies described is based upon some Scientific experimentation/papers- in each and everyone of these books- how cool is that actually!Talking about a cool thing, its epilogue is also interesting to read-I have read every text out in the book from cover to cover.
Frank Poole, who was supposedly killed by the manic AI HAL in the first book of the series, gets rescued and revived.
I found this to be less unbelievable than having Dr.Floyd be a 103-year old in the last book.
First half of the book was about Poole getting used to life in the third millenium.
This was great scifi narrative and I enjoyed how for once, mankind had managed to create an utopia instead of a dystopia.
There was not a great revelation and universe changing consequences in this book, quite unlike the other books in the series.
Sākums likās ritīgi labs.Vidū nekas nenotiek.Beigas tādas pievilktas aiz ausīm.Vairākas nodaļas bija copy paste no iepriekšējām sērijas daļām.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 3/5This was a coda more than a concluding volume.
Clarke was 80 years old when this was published.
He would muse, he would ponder, he would pontificate on things the newer generation were already engaging with at much higher levels and newer tools.
This latest delivery showed that he still had control of realistic, down-to-earth characters.
He retained ownership of his original ideas and could still generate that spark of wonder which made his earlier works so beloved.
Clarke's memorial to Hal, Frank Poole, David Bowman, and 1:4:9.
It's a thousand years since Frank Poole's death at the metaphorical hands of HAL and humanity has entered a new golden age.
Frank explores the future of humanity and this is the best thing about the book.
It feels like Clarke got 3/4 of the way through the book and realized that though he had shared some interesting ideas nothing had really happened yet.
So he decides to make the humans find a way to destroy the solar system's main monolith on Europa.
This is one of his last novels (a novella, really) and it was clearly an effort to imagine his idea of a plausible future utopia, but it fell well short on both plausibility, and utopia.
His faith in a technological ascension was so strong that it becomes detached here from humanity; so many of his conceptions of this 1000-year future society are incoherent or morally repugnant yet go unremarked, that they can only be understood as the author's ideals.
I have quite enjoyed reading Arthur C Clarke's four-parter, but one of Clarke's tricks does not hold up well to a marathon run through the series.
I noticed that every book takes large sections of text from earlier books, pasting them in as flashbacks that are word for word reproductions of what he said the first time.
I've only seen David Bowman's flythrough of Jupiter and visit to the oceans of Europa about 4 times now.
Other than that annoying trick, I have enjoyed the books, though 3001 is probably the weakest of the lot.
This was an okay ending to the set of books, with a story line that wasn't as confusing as some of the instalments that preceded it. That said, the ending was a little abrupt and seemed to come out of nowhere, and it would have been nice to have a more rounded finish to the series!
