https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49176.Games_People_Play
i'm currently reading the 1960-something edition of this book although there is a 1996 edition. it really doesn't matter. i feel like i've found the holy grail. i know y'all's games bitches! that means ima gonna win! fuck yea! eat my metaphoric, insinuating, quadruple entendre shorts!...no really, i'm learning some heavy shit about human relationships...
Second Degree means people's feelings can be badly hurt.
First Degree RAPO is a game you can see being played at almost any party.
Her payoff is satisfaction that she's managed to discomfit him and reassurance that she has sexual power, but it's basically harmless.In Second Degree RAPO, the first party leads the second party on until, again, he's made some kind of advances.
Second Degree RAPO is a pretty nasty game, because it is of course impossible for third parties to know whether the accusations are true or not.
Maybe the guy is just a lecherous creep.In Third Degree RAPO, the first party may get as far as having consensual sex with the second party.
In the first half of the book, Berne introduces transactional analysis as a way of interpreting social interactions.
He describes three roles or ego states, known as the Parent, the Adult, and the Child, and postulates that many negative behaviors can be traced to switching or confusion of these roles.
The second half of the book catalogues a series of "mind games" in which people interact through a patterned and predictable series of "transactions" which are superficially plausible (that is, they may appear normal to bystanders or even to the people involved), but which actually conceal motivations, include private significance to the parties involved, and lead to a well-defined predictable outcome, usually counterproductive.
برای این بازی ها اسامی جالبی رو انتخاب کرده مثل "اگر به خاطر تو نبود" ، "حالا گیرت آوردم پدر سگ" و "چرا فلان کار رانمی کنی - آره، اما" و ....
خوندن این کتاب تجربه بسیار جالبی بود مخصوصا این که برای هر بازی یک "آنتی تز" نیز ارایه داده بود که البته همیشه هم بدون عواقب نخواهد بود و چون بازی را به هم زده ایم باید منتظر عکس العمل سخت طرف مقابل بود!
قسمت هایی از کتاب کمی تخصصی بود و فکر می کنم برای متخصصین بیشتر قابل فهم است.
تصورم بر این بود که برن به تک تک بازی هایی که تا اون زمان یافت شده بود با یه توضیح تئوری وار و توصیف و تفسیرش بر اساس حالات نفسانی ، یکی دو تا مثال و در نهایت آنتی تز بازی مورد بحث ، بازی ها رو معرفی کنه ولی گاها یه بازی تنها به ذکر فقط و فقط یک مثال ختم می شدبرن در تمایز "بازی" از "عمل " گفته: عمل یک تبادل ساده یا رشته ای از تبادل های تعهد شده است که به منظوری خاص انجام می گیرد.
Games People Play has a good chapter about dealing with alcoholics, but Berne's ideas (and I do mean ideas) about women and homosexuals are disgusting and sexist. This book was published in the 1960s and it shows. Scary to think modern psychologists might actually use it as a text or that college students would have to listen to Berne's ugly ideas about women and gays. Nowadays we use research, not "ideas."
However, the description of the games themselves was where I found the book lacking.
Some of his descriptions of games were based on stereotypical gender behavior of that time, but would not be accurate now, nor would his analysis.
What I wanted was to get the description of the game, see an example provided by an analysis, then see an example of the antithesis with similar analysis.
Still, this is the historical beginning from which transactional theory arose and, learning about transactional theory for the first time, it was an incredible read.
I found the general concept an interesting metaphor (rather than a scientifically proven social reality). However, I struggled to finish the book. It felt like a series of scribbled notes thrown together - a set of index cards with brief information on 'games'. I needed further explanation and an attempt to engage me rather than having a series of ideas thrown before me.
بخونید تا بفهمید:اول با بقیه چه رفتاری را در پیش گرفته ایدودوم، بقیه با شما چه رفتاری می کنند
Add in some very seventies thought processes (which are rather out of favor at the moment but the author probably thought of as universal without realizing how much was a product of the time), and you end up with a rather dated, if still interesting, book.The thesis is that whenever you see people engaged in repetitive interactions that appear to be negative, they’re probably getting something out of it subconsciously.
In applicable cases, it not only provides some reasonable explanations for behaviors that seem inexplicable on the surface, getting to the root of the game offers a way to actually break the pattern.
The attempt to extrapolate the theory to apply to all behavior oversimplifies things.
This might be better retitled "Familiar Film Noir Tropes" or "Perceived and Imagined Slights from Women I've Never Met" or "Interpersonal Dilemmas in the Sunday Funnies." When was the last time you found yourself embroiled in the classic "Now I've Got You, You Son of a Bitch" or "Let's Pull a Fast One on Joey"?
This book is mildly amusing but there are too many grievous omissions.
What about modern-day relationship quandaries like the "Ambivalence Cha-Cha", the "Passive Aggressive Shuffle", or the "Internet Weenie's Lament"?
Domestic dilemmas like "Whose Weed, My Weed", "Religious Roomie Roulette" and "Did you Give me Athlete's Foot"?
Sexual sport like "Boudoir blame-off" and "24k Butthole"?
This book needs a major overhaul.
smart. Falls into the category of books that give you the secret reason for why things happen the way they do.
از کتاب هایی که خوندنش بر هرکدام از ابنیاء بشر واجب تاکیدی ست.تمام زندگی انسان رو دسته بندی می کنه، و یکی از زیر-زیر-بخش هاش رو که تبادل های مضاعف یا بازی های اجتماعی نام داره، شرح میده.برن توضیح میده که انسان سه وجهه شخصیتی داره.
و بالاخره بالغ، که جنبه کاملا منطقی و تاثیرناپذیر از احساساته.تبادل های مضاعف، یا بازی های اجتماعی، تبادل هایی هستن که یک ظاهر دارن و یک باطن.
دلیل خیلی از رفتار های خود و اطرافیانتون رو درک می کنید و زندگیتون بی شک یک درجه ی بزرگ ارتقا پیدا می کنه.شدیدن توصیه میشه.

This book is a fascinating psychological journey into the minds of everyday people (including, and probably ESPECIALLY, your own). Berne's list of psychological "games" we all play with each other is fascinating, as is what you learn about yourself by analyzing which games you tend to revisit regularly.One little warning: When you learn to recognize these games, you will be forced to eliminate at least 95% of the B.S. in your life and frequently find yourself disgusted by 100% of the B.S. in everyone else's. That being said, if you're on a quest for honest communication, this book is indispensable.
Ποτέ δεν φανταζόμουν ότι οι άνθρωποι παίζουν τόσα πολλά παιχνίδια μεταξύ τους...Για λοιπές λεπτομέρειες ανατρέξτε στο σχόλιο της Έλλης!!
کتاب بازیها نوشتهی اریک برن با استفاده از نظریهی تحلیل رفتار متقابل (TA) به توضیح نحوهی وقتگذرانی و به ویژه بازیهایی میپردازه که در زندگی روزمره تو ارتباطاتمون به صورت ناخودآگاه استفاده میکنیم. بازیها یک کتاب تخصصی روانشناسیه که برای خوندنش باید حتما از نظریهی تحلیل رفتار متقابل آگاهی داشته باشیم.تو این کتاب، بازیها با اسمهای خلاقانهای توضیح داده میشن ولی نوع توضیحات و دستهبندیها مبهم هستن. مثلا در حال توضیح یک بازی که تیتر مربوط به اونه، از بازیهایی اسم برده میشه که قبلش تو کتاب اسمی ازش نیومده
کتاب بازی‌ها نوشته‌ی اریک برن با استفاده از نظریه‌ی تحلیل رفتار متقابل (TA) به توضیح نحوه‌ی وقت‌گذرانی و به ویژه بازی‌هایی می‌پردازه که در زندگی روزمره تو ارتباطاتمون به صورت ناخودآگاه استفاده می‌کنیم.
بازی‌ها یک کتاب تخصصی روانشناسیه که برای خوندنش باید حتما از نظریه‌ی تحلیل رفتار متقابل آگاهی داشته باشیم.تو این کتاب، بازی‌ها با اسم‌های خلاقانه‌ای توضیح داده می‌شن ولی نوع توضیحات و دسته‌بندی‌ها مبهم هستن.
Unconvincing pseudoscientific psychobabble.
پس از خواندن این کتاب حس کردم که یک عمر سر کار بوده ام و گویا دیگران (و حتی خودم)، یک عمر من را به بازی گرفته بوده انداین کتاب از آن دسته کتاب هایی به شمار می آید که بهتر است همیشه به عنوان یک مرجع در دسترس آدم باشد
Basically, you're manipulating everyone and everyone you know is manipulating you!Admittedly, this book is flawed. Because the author is primarily concerned with interpersonal games, he tends to put every possible scenario within that context. Some of his ideas are now dated, bordering on offensive. Nevertheless, I found the book to be all kinds of enlightening and tremendously useful. I recommend it under the assumption that wise readers will be able to sort the good from the bad.
I've read this book two times, this is the third book written by Prof.
Eric Berne, which I've read up to now, and I believe this is the best one.
It's hard to explain how much i've learned from this book, I think I should read the book once more to learn some new things.This book shows you the "Games" which are behind the human's relationships, it believes that a great number of human's relations are a kind of "Game" indeed.
Eric Berne explains that the highest kind of relationship is "Love", and, of course, he explains how it is...
how to recognize patterns of behavior andmotivation inin relationships and conversations -puts a name on various ambiguous manipulation methods
Книгата не стои чак толкова далеч от теорията за игрите, но все пак в същността си е психоанализа на типове човешко поведение, което се среща толкова често, че може да се определи като вид игра, която индивиди с определен тип проблеми прилагат, за да манипулират средата и близките си.
Това, което "Игрите, които хората играят" може да ви покаже, макар и да ви го навре малко грубо и цинично в лицето, е че човешкото състрадание и човешката доброта трябва да бъдат разумни проявления, защото съществуват игри като "само се опитвам да ти помогна", които всъщност имитират от една страна желание да се помогне на човек в тежко положение и желание тази помощ да бъде приета, но всичко е само думи.
از بین کتابهایی که در حال خواندنشان هستم کتاب بازی ها بیشتر از همه من رو به خودش جلب کرده.
و مهمتر از همه پرکردن چاله های ارتباطی خودمان وقتی که مشکل از ماست!
البته این کتاب مثل بقیه کتابهای خودیار توصیه ای ندارد فقط با روند بازی ها آشنا میشویم.
پس اگر مثل من از لحن و روند کتابهای خودیار یا روانشناسی های زرد خوشتان نمی آید این کتاب بهترین گزینه است!!!در کانال تلگرامی زیر هر روز خلاصه ای از هر فصل و بازی کتاب ارائه می شه که خود من هم دارم با این کانال پیش می رم.
کتاب خوبی بوداز نظر روانشناسی و تا حدودی جامعه شناسی به نکته های خوبی اشاره کردالبته به زبان ساده نبود از دید منِ، چند بار میخوندم یه صفحه رو بعضی اوقات که دقیق متوجه شم منظورش چیهکاشکی فصل های آخر که راه های مقابله و درمانش بود رو بیشتر توضیح میداد خیلی خلاصه بود
گويا اين كتاب به فارسي ترجمه شده. دري بود به دنيايي كه براي من ناشناخته است. اين جور بهتره: از وجود و اندازه هاي چنين دنيايي خبر روشني نداشتم.
The basic idea behind this book -- that human interactions often follow patterns, and many of these patterns can be described in the manner of games and understood better if analyzed as such -- is fundamentally sound, and a really useful paradigm. The book contains a lot of victim-blaming and creepy gender constructions, which detract from the overall message. But I found the basic concepts to be valuable, and would be really interested to read more contemporary, less misogynistic perspectives on this topic.
Bu kitap, ne aradığınizi bilmiyorsaniz, aslinda cok onemli yada ilgi cekici degil.
Biraz etrafa ve kendimize bakacak olursak, hayatimizin her aninda, her yerde, her duygu durumda tekrar tekrar psikolojik etkilesim rituellerini oynadigimizi aslinda fark edebiliyoruz.
Eger ki karsi taraf bizim oyunumuza karsilik veriyorsa ya da biz onunkine karsilik veriyorsak, degmeyin keyfine.
Oyunlar, bir taraf oyunu biraktiginda veya oyunun kurali gereği koseye sikistiginda, artik sonlaniyor ve yeni oyuncularla, yeni bir oyun basliyor.
Bu oyunlar bizim gizli rahatlama veya doyum saglama amaciyla yaptigimiz eylemler ve bunlari cocuk yaslarda ogreniyoruz.
En masumundan, en tehlikelisine kadar, her oyun ve eylem bir temel haz iceriyor.
This a an excellent readable and practical explanation of destructive social interactions, He breaks down common patterns (this is from the 60's so there are variations now) and shows easy ways to identify games that people are acting out , and what it looks like to live game-freeBerne is funny and insightful.
It is a shame that so few people I know really are willing to look deeply at these kinds of issues.
Sort of like feminism I find an attitude of "we're past that", but then i see all the problems people have with successful relationships, and a lack of intereste in looking at how to solve the issues that keep coming up.
ملخص أهم فكرة في الكتاب في فيديوtransactional analysisوالأدوار التي نلعبهاhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nKNyFS...http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YOqJ4s...http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=58F2qY...بالاضافة الى محاضرة ستيفن بينكر، لماذا نراوغ نحن البشر بدلا من ان نقول ما نريده؟http://fora.tv/2007/10/15/Steven_Pink...
