https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41694.Dragon
This is the same comment for all the Dirk Pitt books:Great set of books, I had to stagger these books into my reading rotation since they are so similar. Dirk Series Book in less then 50 words.(introduction to bad guy, introduction to hot chick, introduction to Dirk, Dirk gets in impossible dangerous situations to stop the bad guy, Dirk wins, Dirk gets the hot chick.)
Ahhh, the good old days when Japan, Inc. was going to take over the world.In 1945, not just two, but more like five atomic bombs were sent to Japan, but only two actually made it to their ultimate goal. In more modern times, a Japanese billionaire megalomaniac has located one of these bombs and has plans to use it on the USA. Dirk Pitt and company starts poking around, and eventually find themselves trapped on an island with a madman who hunts humans with robots.One of the better books inthe series by far.
A Norwegian vessel heading out to sea comes upon a seemingly abandoned Japanese Cargo ship.
Slightly further along, a British vessel floats, the launch-point for an underwater exploration.Aboard the Japanese ship, the Norwegians find one man on the bridge, who looks as if he was boiled.
Knowing he's soon for death too, he takes out his gun and shoots the vehicle, vaporizing the ship, the Norwegian vessel, and the British one too.Beneath the surface, the crew in the underwater explorer hear the bang and feel some shockwaves but cannot raise their surface contact to find out what's gone wrong.
In typical Clive Cussler / Dirk Pitt fashion the book opens with action and it doesn't slow down until the book is over.
He's an action hero in typical Indiana Jones/John McClane/Jack Ryan/Jack Bauer fashion.
The Japanese bad guys are a bit one dimensional, as bad guys usually are in this type of story, however they do present an exciting and formidable threat that is fun to read about.Anyway, if you are looking for action, Cussler is always a good time.
I usually read one or two Cussler books a year and they're always fun, but now it's time for something more thought provoking.
I finally agreed that I'd read one and snagged this out of the pile.What we have is an action adventure novel with an aloof superhero type guy by the name of Dirk Pitt and his comedic sidekick Al Giordino.
Still if you can get past those, and a few plot holes this can be a really fun and fast read for those who like their action adventure novels with a smattering of history.
Ok, first of all, I read this book in German, as this book is not available in English anymore for Kindle.As for the book itself, if you love the Dirk Pitt series, it will not disappoint.
I got into the Pitt Series a long time ago but started on the later books and once I decided to read the series from the beginning I started seeing the character development, which is very well done.Here Pitt is more given the role of one of many players, but as always saves the day with the help of his friend Al Giordino.
In some parts, this book is a real nail biter and hard to put down.If you love the Dirk Pit series don't miss out on this book.
A consortium of rich Japanese industrialists and Japanese criminal organizations are out to remove the United States as a world power through economic blackmail and the threat of using nuclear bombs. They want total control of Hawaii and California as well as for the United States to become an economic colony of Japan. NUMA and Dirk Pitt are the only thing standing in their way.
Cussler uses every single offensive stereotype that ever existed to characterize his villain, a Japanese executive who somehow didn’t get the memo that his country lost World War II.
Said executive enjoys hunting the most dangerous game (with robots!), seems to believe he can negotiate on behalf of the Japanese government, and has a fiendish plan involving nuking things.
I’m telling you, this is an extremely painful book to review and read.Now it’s true that Cussler has made foreigners villains before.
Okay – I’ll admit it, many Cussler books have an absurd plot.
Obviously, there are books that I’ve read that are worse than Dragon, but few that are more embarrassing.
Een typische Clive Cussler / Dirk Pitt boek .
Het opent met actie en vertraagt niet voor het einde.Dirk Pitt is de ultieme macho held.
Het verhaal is een beetje een mix van science-fiction en werkelijkheid.
Zo blijkt dat Dirk Pitt al een paar maanden in een onderzeese habitat geleefd te hebben.
Op het laatste moment kan Pitt ontsnappen.
Ze presenteren wel een spannende en geduchte bedreiging voor de wereld.
Als je een spannend boek zoekt, zonder echt veel diepgang, dan is Cussler's Dirk Pitt serie een goede keuze.
First of all, I want to confess that I did not had high expectations before reading this novel.
I knew it is an adventure book and I wanted it to read only for a break from my regular reading list.But when the dialogue is so artificial and forced plus the plot is insulting reader's intelligence, I simply could not rate it higher.
It actually ruined my planned "light reading" with these faults.
No offense for the fans of the genre, fans of Cussler or of this particular novel.
If you enjoy it, then it is perfect.
I could not enjoy it.
I haven't read Clive Cussler in a long time, I still know most of the primary characters by heart. Dragon is a fast paced action adventure, a fun read.
Easily one of the most fun adventure novels I have read in a long time.
Somehow I missed Cussler's sea hero back in the 90s, but I was a hardcore Clancy fan back then.
I was intrigued by the NUMA organization enough to want to read more of the novels.
The anti-Japan feeling many people had back then is on full display, but so is the "we didn't do anything wrong" attitude so many Japanese had back then about wartime atrocities.
Dragon is a great tale though, so you should not let the attitudes of almost thirty years ago scare you off of reading it.Find it!
Dirk Pitt, Cussler's hero who is always in the wrong place, finds himself in the centre of a nuclear maelstrom. Japan fronts the diabolical mastermind this time, with killer robots, uber-secret hideouts and katana wielding maniacs. Leave your disbelief at the front cover, for Dragon is a non-stop wild ride of espionage and action. Not as engaging as some of Cussler's other works, Dragon still entertains from cover to cover.
It was the usual page-turning, excitement-filled Dirk Pitt story. It was not my favorite of the Cussler books, but it was still a fun read. There were a couple awkward passages that show the book's age--especially concerning the Japanese antagonists. I don't think it was malicious or in too bad of taste, but it was still a little uncomfortable at times (even for a book written 30 years ago). Apart from that, it was a pretty good book for vacation or to intersperse with more high-brow reading.
My husband and I read books together on occasion and as we were going on a long road trip I grabbed this for us to read. My husband loves Clive Cussler books and we have read several together; I believe this was our 4th or 5th Clive Cussler book. It always has action and adventure, with a fair mix of the hero getting the girl. I enjoyed the story and the suspense in it.
I enjoy most of Cussler's books but this one was beyond salvation. Written at the height of America's fear of Japan's unstoppable economic success, this book basically takes every racist Japanese trope and weaves it into one incredulous story.
I always enjoy a Dirk Pitt novel and this was no exception, but the story was a little...over the top? I get it, maybe all Pitt novels are ""over the top,"" but an island full of killer Japanese robots? Come on. I hope the rest of the series leaves robots in the dust.
I was hooked to Clive Cussler, as this was the first book that I read some 20+ years back. From then on, I have searched and read all his books. Lots of interconnecting plots and interesting.This is a worth read, almost every 2-3 years.
Entertaining book.
good read.
Another enjoyable read. The SJW crowd may throw a tantrum about it, but the plot seems as though it may foreshadow real world events. Worth reading.
This book was on of my favorite Dirk Pitt adventures chronologically speaking.
Another enjoyable read
Another great adventure story but strangely I found several editing typos in this one. It seems that even the good and the great can't avoid such gremlins.A recommended read all the same.
Dirk Pitt saves the United States again! Fun read with lots of classic twists and turns.
Another great adventure story featuring Dirk Pitt.
This is your typical Dirk Pitt book which is why we read and enjoy them!
The events are a little outdated today. It is hard to remember there was so much anti-Japanese sentiment back at that time. Kind of like the Russian hysteria today. But the story was good.
Loved it. Read it in four sittings and did not want to put it down. Cussler has the equation down pat, with a few twists and mixed this one up nicely. A great read.
Gotta love when authors from the late 80s and early 90s inevitably get to their "Japanese business tycoons taking over America" phase.
