https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13621925-killing-orders
Book Review  4 of 5 stars to Killing Orders, the third novel in the V.I. Warshawski mystery and thriller series, published in 1985 and written by Sara Paretsky. Another great installment, pitting VI against her own family this time. It's gotta be hard to have an animosity within your family, especially when your parents are gone and your aunt is one of the only people left. But VI and Aunt Rosa aren't close. Yet when Aunt Rosa is accused of counterfeiting, VI knows she has to help try to clear
4 of 5 stars to Killing Orders, the third novel in the V.I. Warshawski mystery and thriller series, published in 1985 and written by Sara Paretsky.
Yet when Aunt Rosa is accused of counterfeiting, VI knows she has to help try to clear her family's good name.
And thus begins Killing Orders, where VI takes on the church!
It's a good stand-alone mystery, too, if you don't have interest in the whole series.
Writing is good, but there are a few unbelievable moments, where you will squint your eyes to believe what you're reading.
I write A LOT.
I have said this before but you definitely have to go into these books tongue in cheek. A lot of the action is just so far fetched but at the same time eminently readable. The main character is like someone out of a Marvel Comic strip. She survives the most amazing obstacles and always comes out on top. At the same time the story is good, the action constant and the characters charming. Four stars for pure entertainment value and a promise to continue with the series asap.
Her falling out with Lotty was actually interesting, but that quickly got resolved by the end of the book.in "Killing Orders" V.I. is called to help out her dead mother's aunt.
Though V.I. wishes that the FBI would just come and drag Rosa off into the night (and so will you by the end of this book) V.I. reluctantly investigates.
The whole thing was terrible to read and just made me shake my head.
I have to say that I didn't buy the ending at all though did like that we finally have Vic moving locations.
Of all the female P.I.s I obsessively enjoy, Warshawsky stands at the front of the crowd.Unexpectedly, Rosa Vignelli, V.I.'s aunt, calls her, fearful and desperate.
VI knows something awful for her aunt must have happened because the mutual hatred between them goes back to when Rosa threw VI's mother, Gabriella, out into the streets of Chicago with nothing but the clothes on her back and no English.
For some reason, VI's mother extracted a promise from VI to help Rosa if she ever needed it, so VI goes to her aunt's house to talk to her.
I couldn't remember whether I had read this before or not. Apparently I had.But this was different. A recording made by the BBC with Kathleen Turner as V.I. and a whole cast of characters. Perhaps it was a radio show. Anyway, it was a quick listen.
I love early Warshawski.
Interestingly, although I loved this now and am all but certain that I've read it before what has stayed with me of it over the ensuing decades is not so much the story, the plot, as the ambience, the incidentals.
What stood out when I first read Paretsky's work was Warshawski's integrity and willingness to please NO-ONE in her pursuit of answers and justice.
And almost certain that I was again enjoying the experience rather than wallowing in nostalgia.
The most exciting plot so far and otherwise classic Warshawski with the tasty peripheral of clothes and food and friends and boys.
I thoroughly enjoyed this early V.
I. Warshawski book.
Financial crime is always fascinating and scary.
As always, the author has woven a bit of history, both of V.I., and the period in which she conducted her investigation.
No internet, no cell phone, not even 911 access to make everything a bit easier.
It is a story of misplaced trust and the way it can be manipulated by unscrupulous individuals, using the religious life to mask their greed.
Although written and set in the mid-80's, the book is as relevant to today's world and the types of financial crimes that still exist.
Victoria Iphigenia (V.I.) Warshawski is the daughter of Italian-born Gabriella Sestrieri and former Chicago police officer Tony Warshawski. V.I. is half-Italian, half-Polish, and 100% hard-boiled. A detective specializing in financial crimes, V.I. encounters everything from money laundering to murder, from the mafia to the monastery. Of course, a hard-boiled detective is never scared. So what I was feeling couldn't be fear. Set in Chicago, in the wintertime, mid 1980’s. Lots of Chicago landmarks
Victoria Iphigenia (V.I.) Warshawski is the daughter of Italian-born Gabriella Sestrieri and former Chicago police officer Tony Warshawski.
V.I. is half-Italian, half-Polish, and 100% hard-boiled.
Of course, a hard-boiled detective is never scared.
Will V.I. figure out who the good guys are, who the bad guys are, and will it matter?I would have preferred the author waste fewer words pontificating on social issues.
I eventually got the job done, but the experience turned an otherwise five star book into four."Remember: The only real social sin is to care what other people think of you." ~ V.I. Warshawski
Fun read, though sometimes it dragged on. I loved the kick ass main character!
Sara Paretsky's groundbreaking female private eye, Victoria Iphigenia Warshawski, starts this book by agreeing to do a favor for an aunt she despises.
But it didn' limit my overall enjoyment of the story, nor did it dent my enthusiasm for reading the other books in this series.
Since the death of her mother, VI Warshawski has had virtually no family, save an estranged aunt who also lives in Chicago with her son.
The aunt hated Victoria's mother, having thrown the pregnant girl out of her household and forbidding her to return.
But, on her deathbed, VI's mother, Gabriella,, made her promise to help Aunt Rosa, should she ever need it.
And now she needs help.
Some bonds have disappeared from the Dominican brothers Rosa works for, and she is a suspect in their disappearance.
Although she hates VI (Victoria) almost as much as she hated her mother, she needs her expertise in finding out what happened.
As malicious as her aunt is, V.I. knows she's not dishonest, so V.I. vows to protect her from taking the fall.
But V.I. starts questioning the strength of her family ties when a menacing voice on the phone threatens to throw acid into her eyes if she doesn't butt out.
The stakes are high as she begins to sniff out a connection between Chicago's most powerful institutions: the Church and the Mob. Very good, once I got in it..Enjoyed it!!!!
A bit more serious than the first two VIs, although still enjoyable and a pretty robust plot.
Been many years since I've read this series and I'm so glad I'm re reading these books....this book held me enthralled till the very end....a mixture of stocks, the church, the priests and the mafia all jumbled together with VI to sort it all out....great book!!!
Many years ago, I tried to read a Sarah Paretsky mystery (can't remember which one) and just couldn't get into it.
However, with the shift to the right in U.S. politics since 1985--and specifically with the extreme backlash against feminism and women in general--some of the out-of-dateness is positively refreshing--as in her protagonist's feminism, her acceptance of lesbianism, and her advocacy of reproductive choice.
I. Warshawsky--Paretsky's protagonist--finds herself in this book trying to uncover a money-laundering scheme that involves a variety of financial vehicles, the Catholic Church, and some disturbing discoveries about her own relatives even as her life is endangered by a hit men hired by the mob.
I will be reading more of her books!
I’ve heard lots of great things about Paretsky’s V.I. Warshawski series, but this is the first I’ve read.
I enjoyed it, but I have to admit that the financial stuff makes my eyes glaze over a bit.
Though I didn’t read the first two novels, I had no problem figuring out Warshawski’s back story, and her relationship with her family and with Roger Ferrant are explained pretty well.
Warshawski reminds me a bit of Sue Grafton’s Kinsey Millhone, which is amusing since both series started in the same year.
Warshawski is tough, independent, and smart — a great role model for female P.I.’s everywhere.
a tad bit more "moral ambiguity" than I'm comfortable with - she SAYS that she doesn't believe that the end justifies the means, but she keeps doing really morally questionable stuff to get to the root of the problem - I guess the fact that she feels a little guilty about it is supposed to make it ok? hmmm. Anyway - still a good story -
This is the 2nd time for this book, but I still really like it. I got into this series because of the movie, and now I'm into them because of the writing.
This one is ridiculously fun and God bless VI for dealing with her aunt Rosa. (Because wow, that lady...it's a miracle she lived as long as she did.)
Another great Sara Paretsky book. This one involves V.I. Warshawski, private investigator, as she takes on the Catholic Church, the Mafia and her mean aunt Rosa.
Solid story and a satisfying end. Plus I love reading about the Chicago I remember from my childhood (when it was cheap to live at Halsted and Diversey, haha!)
I like V.I. She is a gutsy woman and she proves it in this outing.
A pretty decent radio adaptation of this V.I. book.
(view spoiler)[ I guess at the end of the book when she solves the case, the police do not pursue her for any of the handful of laws she has broken.
I also guess that with a mystery/crime book saying she solves the case in the end is not really a spoiler.
And since you know she has a dozen more books to come in the series, she manages to stay alive even though it sometimes feels like she has many more than the famous cat’s nine.
I have enjoyed Paretsky's Warshawski books in the past, though I have read them out-of-sequence (something I rarely do with detective fiction).
This early book explains a good deal about Warshawski's personal history and I probably should have tackled it years ago.
Warshawski comes off as fairly unlikable through much (if not most) of this book and that made the story difficult to process.
Indeed, I sympathized with a couple of characters who disliked Warshawski -- or at least became very frustrated and angry with her.
I sure didn't last long in this book, about 5%, I think.
V.I.'s aunt keeps the books for the local priory and comes under suspicion when 5 million dollars of stock certificates in their safe turn out to be counterfeit, a fact discovered when they need to sell some to pay for repairs.
The priory had inherited them about 10 years earlier, and they included companies like AT&T, IBM, and Standard Oil of Indiana.
The priory got audited every year, and the auditors verified the stocks were still there but not their validity.
I'm playing big-time catch-up with the V.I. Warshawski series and, as I am wont to do in such situations, I am reading the books in order.
Lately, I'm only reading before bedtime, but I devoured the first two books in under two weeks.I didn't find this one to be as compelling as the first two.
It took me almost two weeks to read Killing Orders, and there were a couple of consecutive nights here and there along the way where I didn't pick it up at all.
We get to know more about her relationship with her aunt, who was terrible to her and her mother.2.
I was shocked at how heartless her aunt was.3.
I admire how in every book we get to know a little bit more above it warshwaski’s character and past.4.
5. The Xvair I hope he is rotting in jail but he took the first plane to god knows where in Europe so I don’t know.6.
This book took a great turn in a lot of events like her apartment being set on fire, someone trying to blind her, her car is god knows where.All in all, I will be reading bitter medicine next ASAP.
I. Warshawski novel was a bit confusing for me.
It was about share trading in the insurance and non-profit industries in the mid-1980's.
Certificates were counterfeited, God's estranged aunt is accused of having stolen them from the Catholic organization she is bookkeeper for.
Everybody gets involved in this one, the Vatican, the FBI, foreign financial markets, the Chicago Police, Central America.
It never gets so confusing that I lost the plot, though, and by the end I knew where all the bad guys were and who did what to whom.
