https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/423156.King_of_the_Wind
My daughter is 7 and loves horses. And so it is no surprise that this short book by Marguerite Henry about the Godolphin Arabian was one of her favorites. A fairy tale full of surprises and suspense, the story of Agba and Sham was a nice read. There is a more than a tinge of Orientalism unfortunately, but still it does not distract from the beauty of the prose and the splendid illustrations. A classic!
This book fits right in with that category, so why do we all love it so deeply?The story of Sham is the story of hope, of struggle through hardship and the return to grace.
But more than all of this, it is the story of a great horse who was made great not by his deeds, but by the deeds of his children.
King of the Wind captures the essence of Sham's greatness, showing it to the readers in a way that his actions were never allowed to do, all while describing the experiences in the most beautiful and heart-touching detail.
This book is amazing. It's told by a mute boy. No joke. It's amazing because it's about a horse and his boy who is mute, and stays mute through the whole story. Probably my favorite thing about this book is that one of the main characters tells you all about what happened to him and his his horse without saying a thing.
I read this book in my preteen era.
I left for school with the tragedy of an unread book burning in my heart.
So imagine my delight when, next year when I came back for the vacation, I found the book still there - my aunt had forgotten to return it!
It waited one year patiently, covered with dust and forgotten, to be read and treasured by me when I returned - rather like the protagonist of the story who had a largely tragic life but went on to gain immortality, in the famous breed he fathered.
A customer review at Amazon says:================================"Marguerite Henry's fictionalized biography of the Goldolphin Arabian, one of the three founding thoroughbred sires, follows the horse Sham and his mute groom Agba from the stables of the Sultan of Morocco through hardship in France and England to celebrated triumph at stud.
He is a gift to the King of France, through a series of adventures with his faithful stable boy, Agba, he becomes the Godolphin Arabian, the founder of one of the greatest thoroughbred racing lines of all time.""Based on author Marguerite Henry's popular children's novel, winner of the Newbery Medal in 1949, King of the Wind is a fictionalized account of the emergence of Sham, the renowned Godolphin Arabian who fathered a long line of outstanding race horses.
That said, although the 1948 publishing year was a pretty good one for picture books (Blueberries for Sal, Thidwick the Big-Hearted Moose, The Big Snow), it was a weak one for older readers -- maybe the weakest of the decade -- and so I wouldn't characterize King of the Wind as a mistake winner, or anything like that.
As I've said before, all publishing years aren't created equal, and King of the Wind was probably as good a choice as anything else.
His name will be Sham – the Arabic word for sun – and he will race as the wildest wind, for on his heel is the tiny white spot, the spot of swiftest.
He commands that these six boys and the six most magnificent horses in his stable be sent as a gift to King Louis XV and France.
An inspiring fictionalized biography whose setting ranges from the opulent magnificence of a Sultan’s palace to the cramped stables of an English Inn. Its adventurous story and historical instruction will thrill its readers – especially those who love animals.
You want Sham and Agba to be together again, even if Agba wasn't real at all.One of the criticized portions of the story, the cat Grimalkin, actually was real, if not in quite the way he appeared in this book, by the way.Henry tells an entertaining, compelling tale which has endeared the Godolphin Arabian, one of three tail-male foundation sires of the Thoroughbred, to people in a way the Darley Arabian and the Byerly Turk haven't at all achieved.
I think so, and this story becomes richer and sweeter for it.
Google sources gave me a new appreciation of her from learning about her childhood illness that made her bedridden for six years, to a tribute from her publisher in a commemorative edition of the book.
Henry's charm and kindness were noteworthy; plus, what an example of well-lived years: Henry published her last book shortly before she died at 95!
Had to skim over the suffering of Sham, however; reading about man's inhumanity to animals is almost as difficult as reading about our mistreatment of each other.
I will always like stories with happy endings, and was glad to know this one during Sham's difficult years!
Well-written, vivid and memorable horse story, a definite classic and filled with action and adventure.
This book has been my favorite since I was a child and I still love it. My love of horses began with this book.
Few authors bring more sympathy and enlightenment to the story of a horse than Marguerite Henry, and "King of the Wind" happens to be one of her very best such books, if not her magnum opus.
Ultimately, though the historicity of the story is nothing short of fascinating, I think it is this resonant tenderness of relationship that gained the Newbery Medal for "King of the Wind".
"King of the Wind" is a very nice book and, though I have not read all of the contenders for the 1949 Newbery Medal, I would not be surprised if this were the best in the class.
This was an enjoyable read, by quintessential horse book author Marguerite Henry. I enjoyed learning the hard luck, riches to rags to riches story (even fictionalized as it was) of the Godolphin Arabian, one of the founding sires of the Thoroughbred horse breed.The book also tells the story of Agba, a faithful human that follows the horse he calls "Sham", through his entire life. I'm not sure how much of Agba's story is true, or if Agba even ever existed, but I would like to think that he did.
This book was among a handful that were absolutely beloved stories in my childhood. Although I haven't read this book in probably 30+ years, it was still just as magical to me now as it was then. <3
This classic was a true horse-lovers adventure.
The story begins in the royal Arabian household with one of the finest fillies in the kingdom foaling a young colt.
From the onset of its life, the beautiful colt has many signs declaring a life of contradictions; greatness and difficulties that prove to be true.
Like the stories of the Arabian Nights, this story is full of superstition, good and evil, and harrowing adventures.
That this young boy, carries the entire adventurous story without saying a word says much to the descriptive story telling of the author.
The boy names the horse Sham and together they race like the wind.When the Sultan of Morocco selects Sham as one of the six perfect horses to send to the king of France (ordering Agba to go with him), the boy believes the horse’s destiny is about to unfold.But will Sham’s destiny be that of greatness?Or will the mark of danger dominate both of their lives?A fictional tale of the Godolphin Arabian.
I read Marguerite Henry’s Misty books when I was about ten, followed by almost all of Walter Farley’s Black Stallion series (one of my FAVORITES).
King of the Wind is the perfect example of how to fictionalize a true story.
None of the elements added to the story took away from the story itself, they simply added its heart and soul.
Reading this story, both as a child and an adult, I can place myself in Agba's shoes [or bare feet] and walk those thousands of miles with him and Sham through time.
King of the Wind is my favorite horse story, and honestly favorite book, of all time.
Henry impresses upon the reader all the beauty and majesty of this horse who holds such a special place in the history of Thoroughbreds.
Great trip down memory lane for me--Marguerite Henry was one of my very, very favorite authors as a horse-obsessed kid. I will have to read Misty of Chincoteague soon, even though it's not a Newbery Book (just an honor book...still very worth of my 2353rd read in my life). I liked the historical fiction aspect of the novel, loved the story of the first Arabian to arrive in Europe and strengthen the bloodlines of the horses there, and the story of Agba, the little mute horseboy, and his devotion to Sham, the Arabian stallion, is really touching.
Newbery Medal Winner--1949I have to admit--I wasn't too excited about this one when I saw it was another horse story, but it was actually an enjoyable little read. Definitely not something I would normally pick up and read, but a lot of these early Newbery winners have been that way. This is really just a cute story about a boy and his horse--they travel far and wide, experience tragedy and triumph, and are separated at times--but they always find their way back to each other.
If they still had the library records from my elementary school, one would see that I checked this book out SO MANY TIMES.
A classic. I've loved this book each and every time I've read it. It's definitely Marguerite Henry at her best.
Yep. Horse book.
You don’t have to be a horse lover to love Marguerite Henry’s classic children’s tale King of the Wind (Rand McNally; 1948.) Winner of the prestigious Newberry Award in 1949, this is Henry’s best known book after her Misty of Chincoteague series.
Like many other of Henry’s books, King of the Wind is told from a child’s point of view.In this case, the child is a mute slave named Agba from Morocco who works in the Sultan’s stables long before the thoroughbred breed was created.
The Sultan then picks several colts and slaves to give as presents to the King of France.
If you love horses, this is a good book for you.
It is about a boy named Agba and his horse.
The owner of the mare becomes so furious with Agba that he makes him go and live out in the wild with Sham.
I thought this book was very good.
I liked Agba and Sham.
I also liked Sham because he is a very proud Arabian.
My favorite part of the book was when Agba let Sham out of his stall to mate with the prized mare.
I also liked the couple that saved Agba from jail.They were very nice and the wife was always friendly and helping someone or cooking.
I read the novel and Newberry Award winner, 'King of the Wind' by Marguerite Henry.I would reccommend this book to someone that loves fiction and horses.
You would also like this book if you love Arabian culture.
I would not reccommend this book to people who don't like stories about animals, or bonding between man and animal.
The character, Agba, bonded with the horse, Sham, really well.
The plot gets confusing at times because Agba and Sham, the horse, go from place from place trying to see where they will live next.
The ending of the story is written well, but a little confusing at times.
In my case I don't know if I ever truly begged my parents for a horse but I was into all books of horses and ponies while even disliking one girl in third grade as she lied to a teacher thus taking away my Smithsonian guide of horses and ponies from around the world (which I never did get it back).
This time going around the reading was a bit dryer and I don't know if that is since I just wasn't in the mood for reading the book at the time or if Marguerite Henry's works just aren't bringing up my attention as they did when I was much younger.
if i didn't read it at least twice, something was really wrong.) however, i want to pick it up again and see what i think now, because it does tell the true story of how the thoroughbred was "created" out of three strands of arabians in the bedoin desert.
bloodlines are incredibly thorough - i think every registered thoroughbred in the the jockey club has to be able to trace its lineage back to the godolphin arabian - or at least, to another horse that can connect back.
it's really kind of incredible.
In all fairness, this is a book about a horse.
I've read a multitude of Newbery yarns similar to this where a main character or two goes on a long, seemingly endless adventure.
And pardon me, but I don't understand how the horse went on to become so revered in the land (what, exactly, did he do that proved him worthy?) The illustrations were odd; some were nicely done with different pencil layers to them, some were simple and cheesy (although the painting on the front cover is excellent.) In summary, I guess I just didn't find enough in it to hoist it out of mediocre territory.
I'm stuck in a long, dry bout of Newbery tomes that haven't done much for me.
I enjoyed it and was drawn in by the story.
I liked one of the main characters, Agba, who is a mute.
The omniscient narrator tells you of Agba's feelings but, since he can't express himself out loud, you can feel the feelings the the narrator ascribes to the boy.
It almost makes it easier to really enter the story.
Agba is loyal to his horse whom he helped from the time the horse was born.
There was even a painting of him and his faithful stable mate, Grimalkin, the cat.
Grimalkin is in the book as well.AR: 5.4Points: 5
The story of the Godolphin Arabians begins here.
Right from the beginning, the horse faces conflict as his owner attempts to kill him.
A mute slave boy, Agba decides to protect Sham and stay with him throughout his life.
They are sent with five others across the Mediterranean to France, where their struggles begin.
Sham proves to be a horse worthy if his own breed name.
Henry does her research and incorporates true facts about the countries, people, and horses involved in this story.
