https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1749624.Laments_for_the_Living_Collected_Stories
It looks like last week, They (I forget who, but presumably The Powers that Be) released the original version of Welty’s story “Where is the Voice Coming From?”, the story she wrote after the shooting of Medgar Evers, in which she chose to write from the perspective of the shooter.
And, Parker’s stories can become a little tinny in the obviousness of the satire, so I understand why authors like Welty would want to protect the beauty of their writing for its own sake and thereby risk sounding earnest.
I don't know how many of her readers are aware of it, but Mrs. Parker left her estate to the Martin Luther King foundation and was later transferred to the NAACP who finally gave her ashes somewhere to rest (with a lovely plaque that includes among other things her wish for her burial plaque to state "Pardon my Dust".) The stories Clothe the Naked and Little Curtis are so moving and painful and unfortunately still hold a certain amount of truth in this day and age.
But they show Mrs. Parker never missed a moment of the truths around her and also her deep compassion for the downtrodden and abused of the world.
Her acidic takes on society are still hilarious and truthful and the entire book is a joy to read even in it's darker moments.
These stories are gold to me.
I read most of these stories just last summer in another collection but enjoyed them just as much the second time around.
I'm fascinated by these 1920s ladies, from the wealthy divas with their servants and casual cruelties, to the young lovelies jousting to their souls' death over the most unworthy men .
My favorite story is "Horsie", a study in classism and sexism, contrasting a homely nurse with the beautiful, wealthy family that employs her.
Written in the 1920s and '30s, their brilliance of these stories shines brighter every year.
This book contains a handful of good stories.
Several of the pieces here were not really stories at all, but rather, they were sketches and experiments in creative writing.
This writing comes off as a gimmick instead of true innovation.
Specifically, a woman losing her mind over a man.
Things get boring quick.
This is also true of some of the more traditionally constructed pieces.
A majority of these examples are comprised of an argument between a man and a woman.
There is not enough variety here to keep things interesting.
I can see how she got her fame because these stories are fantastic.
I’m even overcoming my usual aversion to short stories to keep plowing through them.I love the way Parker turns her writing sideways and tells stories through thoughts, monologues and what isn’t said.
She never takes the obvious route.
Clearly she’s a master technician who wanted to find more interesting ways to tell stories than just tell them.
I love the monologue of the girl waiting for the telephone to ring.
Good reading to figure out how to convey stories in a more interesting and indirect way.
A treat to read. Compared unfavorably though to my favorite short story writer, Hector Hugh Munro aka Saki! ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saki ) Both shed hilarious light on the foibles and pretensions of the early 20th c upper class, with Parker also satirizing the pre-feminist woman. But I kept hoping for more Saki-like endings, where the underdog comes out on top in a sweetly vindicating twist.
You've seen Rear Window, right? Well, Dorothy Parker covers all those other windows. You know, the windows without all the murder. And she delivers elegant, moving, incisive glimpses of those little desperate moments that we call life. Or lust. Probably more lust. Buy this title from Powell's Books.
Especially if you are interested in the Jazz Age or its 1930shangover Dorothy Parker is one of those writers you often hear aboutbut when all is said, you realize you've never read anythingactually written by her. Inspired by the flic 'A Vicious Circle' to read somethingby Parker I received this collection of her short stories asa gift. It is a good read of 24 of her tales.
Dorothy Parker! What a smarty pants! She cracks me up!!! If you only read one Parker story I highly recommend Big Blonde...it's has all of Parker hallmarks. I really got a kick out of Clothe the Naked, Horsie, and You Were Perfectly Fine. The other stories all seem to blend together.
I count stumbling upon this book as one of the best things that happened this summer. I know that Dorothy Parker will be a life-long friend.
classic '20s stories, giving you a real sense of the era.
Detta var smörja
I think, perhaps, reading straight through a collection of Dorothy Parker's writing is not the best approach. In smaller doses, I may have rated higher...
good stuff. worth it. high five.
I found this at the used book store and mainly bought it because its the most beautiful book cover I've ever seen. Like wall paper. Though I do like Dorothy Parker and am really enjoying the stories.
