https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40411388-no-god-but-god
Our Bible study class decided we wanted to learn something about Muslims.
We were woefully ignorant on the subject and needed to learn something about the religion.
Someone recommended this book and it turned out to be a great choice.
I have to be up front that I knew nothing about Muhammad and so it was great place to begin.
One thing that came as a surprise to me was that Muhammad, like Jesus, did appreciate women and their contributions.
I really learned a great deal and don't feel as ignorant as I did before.
It's a great jumping off place to expand your horizons.
Reza Aslan - from The Guardian Aslan has produced what should be required reading for anyone with an interest in things Islamic, whether that interest be religious or geopolitical.
He makes clear that there are several types of Islam, and that fanatical, fundamentalist Wahabism is not the only brand on the market.
I found the book eye-opening.
It is not only important to know one's enemy, but also one's potential and even current friends.=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal, Twitter and FB pagesHis latest book is Zealot, published in 2013
Aslan is an excellent writer, and the book isn't too academic, but his command of Arabic and, at the same time, comprehensive familiarity with not one but at least three or four different English translations of the Quran (and the misunderstandings that result therefrom) makes this well worth reading.
Prepare to leave this book with a very different perception of what it means to be Muslim than you will ever get from Christiane Amanpour.
This remarkable evolution in Christianity from its inception to its Reformation took fifteen vicious, bloody and occasionally apocalyptic centuries.Fourteen hundred years of rabid debate over what it means to be a Muslim; of passionate arguments over the interpretation of the Qu'ran and the application of Islamic law; of tribal feuds, crusades and world wars- and Islam has finally begun its fifteenth century."If this seems like a superficial parallel on some levels, that's true.
Well, sorry, but Bukhari and Muslim both contain multiple incidences of the Prophet commanding and overseeing the stoning of adulterers, meaning it was NOT introduced by Umar and has its basis in hadith/sunna, Quran notwithstanding (this punishment is prescribed by the Tawrat/Torah/Old Testament, which is why Muhammad did it).
On the other hand: Most sources of information on Islam originating in the West (that I have seen, at least) are slanted in the other direction: emphasizing incidents of violence and misogyny in the Quran, sunna, hadith, and history of Islam.
And as did Christianity during the Reformation, Islam today is finding its way into a more literate citizenry's hands.
It took many years of violence and devastation to cleanse the Hijaz of its 'false idols.' It will take many more to cleanse Islam of its new false idols - bigotry and fanaticism - worshipped by those who have replaced Muhammad's original vision of tolerance and unity with their own ideals of hatred and discord.
Shall we choose many more years of violence and devastation to achieve any goal, or shall we choose tolerance, dialogue and justice made in the spirit of mutual love?
On the other, we have an author so blinded by personal bias that I routinely had to put the book down and walk away.The author, Reza Aslan, clearly knows his history as a scholar of Islamic culture and a personal believer, himself.
It makes sense that the book is at its best when Aslan focuses objectively on the history and culture of Islam and presents the facts.
I don't have a dog in his fight when it comes to what I think of Islam, but unfortunately, the defensive attitude in which he confronts fair criticism leads me to believe I need to do further reading before I make any sort of judgment.
Tight composition, fast pacing, authoritative tone: it's no surprise it was a bestseller.
Of politics and history it is a good introduction for the non-muslim.
Even presuming the raft of hostile orientalists he draws from represented the most neutral and authoritative of western scholarship on Islam, the author's own tone and framing make it needlessly more odious.
I'm not reverse FoxNewsing him and saying he must be a staunch muslim to write a book on Islam.
I'm just saying this book is speaking to and from a position so far removed from the Islamic scholarly tradition that I can make no use of it.
In the other I say for the sake of all that's holy Reza, will you stop banging on about how Islam is a liberal-democrat's wet dream religion?
Tied in to this, will you stop making obviously bad arguments (e.g., "People say that Islam is a 'religion of the sword.' But Buddhists and Christians fight all the time!" Sure they do.
But the book's polemic (justified by hysterical Islamophobia, I grant you) distorts its history and argument far too much: if Islam offered only support for liberal-capitalistic governments in the middle east, it wouldn't be as popular as it is.
In No God But God, Aslan uses the same skilled hand to offer a history not only of the religion of Islam, but how Islam came to be practiced as it is today in all its variety all over the world.
You will learn a lot from No God But God, especially about Islamic cultural practices and their Quaranic (or lack of Quaranic) roots.
Aslan is clear-eyed about the challenges facing contemporary Islam and offers helpful evidence for dismantling arguments against the faith (useful if, you know, you’re friends with Bill Maher — or just spend a lot of time on the internet).
به نظر من اين كتاب بهترين و معتبرترين كتاب رضا اصلانه.
همين كه در كلاسهاى مذهب يهودى و مسيحى در دانشگاهها اين كتاب را مطالعه ميكنند دليلى بر تعادل و صلح در اين كتابه.
كتاب و اسكالرى را معتبر ميدونم كه هيچ ردى از يك طرفه بودن قضاوتش به خواننده نده.
به نظرم هر خواننده اى با هر اعتقاد مذهبى يا بى مذهبى با خواندن اين كتاب عصبانى نخواهد شد.حتما نبايد موافق نويسنده بود تا از قلمش لذت برد، براى من همينكه براى دفاع از اعتقادش بى انصافى نميكنه كافيه.
با همه حرفهاى اصلان موافق نبودم ولى از خواندن كتابش لذت بردم
When I thought Martin Luther King Jr., I would think of the Civil Rights Movement, the March on Washington, the Montgomery Bus Boycott, the seminal “I Have a Dream.” My understanding of him was limited to a single optic, that of racial justice.
In No god but God, a wonderfully readable explainer of Islam for the uninitiated, I learned that Muhammad and his original values have suffered a similar smear campaign to King’s.
In the case of Martin Luther King Jr., his legacy has been rewritten in only a few short decades.
I found all this really interesting but it was then unbalanced by what felt like a quick rush through the last 150 years or so.
Amongst events and developments briefly covered were the Indian Revolution of 1857, the rise of Nasser, the Muslim Brothers, the rise of Wahhabism and the creation of the first Islamic state, Pakistan.
All very interesting but too rushed in relation to the rest of the book.
One dealing with the early history, another with developments since (or up until 2005 when it was published).
I’d recommend it though if, like me, you’re keen to understand the complexities and origins of Islam.
To me, this was worth reading, because Reza Aslan made the story if Islam come alive and told me so much I didn't know about Islam.
He probes and asks many questions throughout, but he never seems to wonder why Mohammad never appointed a successor, and how the contenders and their descendants have been battling ever since (three of the four successors to Mohammad were poisoned or murdered), or why he didn't write down his revelations of the Quran at the time, which led to it being canonized and codified decades later by Uthman, a leader Aslan himself deems corrupt.
If there is anything I didn't like, it would have been Reza's retelling of the history of the first three Caliphs of Islam especially the third Caliph, Uthman bin Affan.
The Shia'ah tend not to like any of the Caliphs except Ali bin Abu Thalib and all those who came from the line of the Prophet (the Abbasid Caliphs and the Fatimids to name two)While Uthman may seem weak in the vicious eyes of contemporary politics (for example, telling his companions to stop protectng him and leave his home while he was besieged by his enemies and refusing to fight his murderers because he would not shed Muslim blood), he was actually acting out the prophecy that the Prophet foretold; that the Muslims would fracture after his death and would fight each other.Reza charged that Uthman practised nepotism but significantly, Uthman did not appoint his own stepson to any position.
Consequently, I was repugnant to read the first few chapters of the book in which the focal point is the introduction to seerah (History of Islam)that is biased.I would much rather recommend the Sealed nectar for more in depth and concise recollection of Prophet Muhammad and his companion’s lives since most of the facts told are supported with Quran verses and hadiths.
Prophetic stories not supported by verses from Quran and hadiths to me are equivalent to fairy tales that are told by mouth.Nevertheless, the main strength of this book is his urge for ummah’s unity.
Time and again, the Muslim world is divided into fractions – traditionalists vs rationalists, Shiite vs sunnis, etc.
Aslan has a view of the Islamic past that he wants to be useful today and overall he tells his apologetic tale well, focusing heavily on the life of Muhammad and the first rightly guided Caliphs, skipping over much of the longer history of Islam.
The book reads quite easily, almost novelistically at times, but it is certainly partisan and he slants the truth again and again (towards the Shi'a against the Sunni, against the traditional authority of the Ummah, against European colonialists as the cause of all of the Islamic worlds modern troubles).
Having divorced myself from Islam a couple of years back but continued to struggle with a lot of resentment regarding current "theological" and cultural affairs, coming across this book parted some clouds in my mind.
I am far more interested in the historical aspect of any religion than I'll ever be in its theology, and Reza Aslan proves to be thought-provoking at best.
I think religions are not testimonies of the greatness of a God, or gods, or whatever.
I think they just prove how interesting and creative, and sometimes awful, human beings can be.
In this interesting book, Aslan starts each section by presenting 'the idealized' view of a topic, as narrated by early Muslim scholars (what he terms as 'myth') and then presents what he believes 'really happened' (objective history).
But Aslan leaves it there, but I would argue that every effort should be made to make the community see the wisdom of divine laws, emphasizing positive consequences in implementing them (improved justice, social harmony, etc) and pointing out negatives of not following them (chaotic society, broken down families, etc), both in this world and in the afterlife.
all up, i found myself wishing that there were more books like this written by christians.aslan relates the history of islam from the days just before mohammad, through the life of the prophet, and then into the subsequent development of the religion, with it's three main branches: sunni, shi'ite and sufi.
aslan also argues that in mohammad's society, women were esteemed and protected - not subjugated as they are in a number of muslim cultures today.aslan says that islam is currently in the throes of a reformation, much like the one that christianity went through a few hundred years ago.
This book was thoroughly eye-opening. It is a must read!
"God may be One, but Islam most definitely is not."Reza Aslan has undertaken a gigantic task.
He believes in necessity of a reformation which will make Islamic world naturally democratic.
He outright opposes orthodox Islam, Ulama, and the traditionalist school.While developing the thesis of the book, Reza Aslan treats Islam as "a man-made institution" well beyond what rationale of the religion justifies.
Reza Aslans sounds less concerned about this, or there is a bigger picture I am missing.
I don't remember the day.
Any American has heard all of this on Fox news.So, I feel at a serious disadvantage because all of those things aren't true.
That was about who gets to say what it is to be Christian -- what to believe, who can say it, etc -- and this is the same thing.
What Aslan says is this:One need only regard the language with which political issues like abortion rights and gay marriage are debated in Congress to recognize that religion is to this day an integral part of the American national identity and patently the moral foundation for its Constitution, its laws, and its national customs.
Most of the book is devoted to supporting this thesis, demonstrating that there's plenty for every American to love in the Islamic tradition (such as a rejection of clan and class privileges and of the oppression of women), and that there are Islamic scholars who are well aware of this and arguing for it.Needless to say, the author also indicates that the US media and government does the world a great disservice by falsely claiming that the fundamentalists are the only legitimate Islamic voices.
This book gives a simple but yet a sufficient description of Islam's sects and their evolution through time, with a brief mention of the muslim political movements (the islamists) which i think played a much greater role in shaping the political consciousness of today's muslims.This book however failed enormously in approaching islam as 'a faith'. By stripping it from all spiritual content, the author handled it as a merly socioeconomic revolution. But the author's way of handling the topic of chiisme totally worth reading this book to me.
Instead of taking views from reliable Islamic Sources, in many instances, Reza Aslan decided to stick to less-popular historical accounts.
This is why, if you are a Muslim and you read “No god but God”, the first part of the book is going to make you disappointed.I was disappointed but I was so eager to know the viewpoint of the famous religious-studies scholar.To my knowledge and observation, there are things that Aslan got wrong.
I honestly liked the bold way Aslan talked about such issues.The thesis topic of the book was to make sense of “Evolution of Islam”.
Tačiau pradėjau apie tai vis daugiau mąstyti knygynų lentynose pamačius Reza Aslan knygą „Jokio kito dievo, tik Dievas“.
Vos pradėjusi knygą negalėjau atsitraukti ir perskaičiau per ne pilnas dvi dienas.Tai tikrai nėra knyga „pilanti“ faktus ir datas vienus po kita, čia įvykiai nėra raportuojami.
Čia glaudžiai ir vaizdingai atkuriama visas islamo istorija, asmenybių gyvenimai, apsireiškimai, karai, kovos.
Galbūt tai skambu jums kaip istorijos vadovėlio pristatymas, bet galiu jus užtikrinti, jog ši knyga yra nepalyginamai daugiau.
Kaip visas tas radikalumas atsirado?Nors čia nei romanas, nei detektyvas –„Jokio kito dievo, tik Dievas“ knygą perskaičiau per porą dienų.
As Aslan lays out his subject historically it seems that only history, and a lot of it, will reveal the outcome of the struggle he describes.The extensive bibliography and end notes give credibility to this provocative book that it might not have otherwise.
From here, he talked about the clash of monotheism concept - which apparently is the major conflict between religions in our world today.This book is written in chronological style which makes it easy to comprehend and follow - It started from Jahiliyyah period, the birth of Muhammad, the Quran revelations, the Khulafa Rasyidin period, the various sects in Islam and current controversies within the Ummah.
It provides an informative look at the origins, evolution and future of Islam.
I loved how the author analyzes the history and tenets of Islam without getting preachy and apologetic.
My favorite part of this book came early on:"All religions are inextricably bound to the social, spiritual, and cultural milieux from which they arose and in which they developed.
It is not prophets who create religions.
Indeed, it is most often the prophet's successors who take upon themselves the responsibility of fashioning their master's words and deeds into unified, easily comprehensible religious systems."Well said and bravo.I HAD to read this book after hearing Reza Aslan respond to Bill Maher's rantings about "Muslim countries." Fortunately, No God But God is similarly level-headed.
