https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135479.Cat_s_Cradle
Have you read the whole of it?L) Of course I've read it from its first word to the very last one.E) And haven't you noticed anything strange?L) What are you talking about?E) I mean, you know, it's a discontinuous novel.
Are you telling me you haven't appreciated the marvellous description of San Lorenzo island and so on?E) No, no.
E) Well..at first the narrator wants to write a book about this eccentric scientist who has planned the atomic bomb.L) Yeah.
Besides I haven't liked the structure of the novel.
A pack of foma!Shut up voices!
Ripper in Doctor Strangelove, the obvious movie parallel to this book, but I find him somehow less convincing than the series of deranged, helplessly incompetent people in Cat's Cradle.
Bokononism is the one thing that makes life worthwhile for Papa's miserable subjects.
As already noted, Bokonon's wise lies in fact make an excellent religion.Here's what I think he means by this.
But Vonnegut manages to present most of the book as a comedy, so that you are able to think about it, which we desperately need to do before it's all too late.
I've read this book four times. It's better than the Bible, because unlike the Bible, this book knows it's fiction.
it's as easy as describing why i love my favorite pillow or threadbare t-shirt, or why i like rainy days as much as sunny days.
the inventiveness of Cat's Cradle and its bleak, absurd humor was incredibly eye-opening to me in high school and it practically provided a template for how i looked at things.
favorite character: cynical young Philip Castle: do-gooder, sarcastic asshole, painter, owner of a hotel that scorns snobs and is therefore pretty empty.
i love you, Philip Castle!
Another review in the KISS series (Keep It Short, Steve)In Anne Fadiman’s superb book about books called Ex Libris, she divides readers into two categories: those who keep their books in pristine condition (courtly lovers) and those who delight in marginalia (carnal lovers).
Tiger got to hunt, bird got to fly;Man got to sit and wonder 'why, why, why?'Tiger got to sleep, bird got to land;Man got to tell himself he understand.
I remember thinking Vonnegut was one of those cool, sort of counter-cultural writers who wielded his satirical axe well.
Hasty and jokey, Cat's Cradle begins as a satire about a journalist's attempt to investigate the life of one of the creators of the atomic bomb, but ends as a bleak allegory about the annihilation of life on earth. Vonnegut's irreverent wit and straightforward prose make his work a useful gateway to adult fiction for teens, and this novel ranks amongst his best. Adults who never encountered Vonnegut's books during their youth, by contrast, might find the book's pessimism or its hyper-episodic structure to be a bit tedious.
Vonnegut's best?
Many will say that it is and who am I to disagree.
It does include all the best elements of Vonnegut in his genius: humor, dark and subtle, and sometimes not subtle at all, irreverence, absurdity blended with realism to create a surrealistic setting where the reader is cautiously intrigued by whatever is going on.
And the messages and themes, of love, relationships, responsibility, both internally and globally.
Also, like several of his more endearing works, this one remains thought provoking years after being read, a quasi-morality play that the reader will revisit often and sometimes with little coaxing.
Humanity wiped out completely on a whim, no hope of reproducing our species at all, the only question remaining is how to die and what symbol to carry in your hand to show the hated - and hating - creator above.The experience of being trapped in Dresden as an American prisoner of war during the bombing and destruction of the city might have formed the sense of absurdity that Vonnegut displays in his vision of mankind.To put it in Bokononist words: the cruel paradox of the heartbreaking necessity of lying about reality combined with the heartbreaking impossibility of lying about it is at the center of the book.
427. Cat’s Cradle, Kurt VonnegutCat's Cradle is the fourth novel by American writer Kurt Vonnegut, first published in 1963. It explores issues of science, technology, and religion, satirizing the arms race and many other targets along the way. After turning down his original thesis in 1947, the University of Chicago awarded Vonnegut his master's degree in anthropology in 1971 for Cat's Cradle. At the opening of the book, the narrator, an everyman named John (but calling himself Jonah), describes
At the opening of the book, the narrator, an everyman named John (but calling himself Jonah), describes a time when he was planning to write a book about what important Americans did on the day Hiroshima was bombed.
While researching this topic, John becomes involved with the children of Felix Hoenikker, a Nobel laureate physicist who helped develop the atomic bomb.
John travels to Ilium, New York, to interview the Hoenikker children and others for his book.
ایشان در این کتاب، در باره ی علم، تکنولوژی، و مذهب، بحث می‌کند.
«گهواره گربه» در سال 1964 میلادی، کاندیدای دریافت جایزه «هوگو»، برای بهترین رمان، بوده است.
If after you finish reading this one the first question that comes to your mind would be ,"WTF did I just read?" it is perfectly normal and common.
The MC named John (whose name comes up exactly once) decided/forced/hired/given a job to write a book about him.
At this point I have to stop and ask the following question - I am going to do it lots of times here - as everybody and their brother know it took a lot of brilliant scientists to develop the bomb.
For the first half I was fascinated by weirdness and mad glimpses at the mind of a genius.
This time, he takes on science, religion, politics, and man's ability to destroy himself.I didn't enjoy Cat's Cradle as much as Slaughterhouse-Five but they probably shouldn't be compared since they aren't the same kind of book.
Slaughterhouse is experimental and timey-wimey and Cat's Cradle is much more straight-forward and easy to digest.Jonah's project leads him to Felix Hoenikker and his three odd children, and eventually, to San Lorenzo and Bokononism, a new religion.
In fact, the man, who shall remain nameless here, joked about creating the very substance which would be the genie let out of the bottle in "Cat's Cradle."Not only did Hoenekker help build the atomic bomb, it seems he developed a substance Ice-9.
He has gone from believer, to agnostic, to atheist, depending which interview you read and the mood in which Vonnegut was found by the particular interviewer at the time.But in "Cat's Cradle," religion is represented by a mischievous character named Bokonon who turns religion on its head.
Normally, even if I do not like a book, I can find something about it to keep me going but with Cat's Cradle I just had to quit.
I need to feel something - curiousity, irritation, sadness, happiness, love, desire, anger, escapism, like I am learning something new, that I need the lesson this book is offering...
I need to connect to the book, the story, the characters in some way.
The good thing I can say about this experience is that it made me realize that I don't have to finish a book.
Or, on the other hand, that I am picking up messages that just aren't there.Which is, perhaps, the point of the whole book.The world is full of lies.
If Ice-Nine were to come into contact with a natural body of water, the chain reaction would lead to the total freezing of the planet Earth.The narrator's journey to the end of the world is an interesting one, started by a search for the truth and ended with the death of humanity.
As, perhaps, all searches for truth must.
"...for the quotation captured in a couplet the cruel paradox of Bakononist thought, the heartbreaking necessity about lying about reality, and the heartbreaking impossibility of lying about it.Midget, midget, midget, how he struts and winks,For he knows a man's as big as what he hopes and thinks!"-- Kurt Vonnegut, Cat's CradleI first read this in 9th grade.
When I first read this book I was focused on the technology of Ice-9 and the absurdity of weapons of mass destruction.
There is nothing emasculates a man faster than a cold bath, nakedness, age, and Kurt Vonnegut.Anyway, 28 years after first reading it and I still love this book.
Although this particular Cat's Cradle, a metaphor for seeking pattern and meaning with its added layer of infinite futility, is an allegory for the scientists who first split the atom and the weaponry of mass destruction to which that accomplishment led, it is an end-times scenario that offers maximum flexibility across time and remains disturbingly apt.Vonnegut's anger at that particular act, those men, that world is palpable - it radiates from the page.
And since I did buy it, I might as well read it.
“Well,” he said, “we don’t want to mystify.
Even though the author (and Bokonon) warns us at the beginning, that it is in fact a religion based on shameless lies, I couldn't help but nod along to every Calypso, or anecdote, that the narrator would cite.Score: 4.5/5 starsA lot of the humor and sarcasm was lost in translation.
Truth be told, I actually suspect the problem may lie with me, who reads much more in English.
Heck, I even liked its religion a lot, and could see myself adopting it...
What is it about Vonnegut's authorial voice? It's simultaneously wry and tender, sarcastic and gentle. I don't know of any other authors that can manage that particular combination. And here, writing about the end of the world in so many different ways, it is on full display. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I struggled a bit with this one. Kurt Vonnegut's writing is always a little unusual but this book seemed to be excessively disjointed and rambling. I felt my brain wandering off into more interesting thoughts and had to keep rereading bits. Keeping track of all the characters' names was hard too. Not a successful read for me I am afraid.
The book is darkly funny, veering into science/speculative fiction, but underneath it all is barely contained rage and despair at the stupidity of the human race, especially with respect to the conduct of war and the destruction of civilians in cities.
Cat’s Cradle, his fourth novel, continues Vonnegut’s rage against the war machine, this time focused on Doctor Irving Langmuir, one of the architects of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, fictionalized in the guise of Dr Felix Hoenikker, whom Vonnegut has constructing a cat’s cradle when the bomb is actually dropped.
Unlike most religions, Bokononism is up-front about its fictional nature: honesty, for Vonnegut, is the quickest path to wisdom, however uncomfortable, and the extracts from Bokononist teachings are among the most appealing parts of his story.‘Maturity is a bitter disappointment for which no remedy exists, unless laughter can be said to remedy anything.’It took me a while to warm up to Cat's Cradle.
When you look back on the book, this is the bit you remember: cartoon characters on an island, swapping religious parables and making jokes about imminent extinction.
Although I found the ending rather abrupt, I thought this was a fantastic book!
He meets many weird characters (or members of his karass) along the way and describes among other things, his journey to Bokononism.
I'm not an expert on Vonnegut but he seems to have amazing skill at dealing with unpleasant topics in a way that seem almost funny.
In my opinion they shouldn't and the effect of doing so lessens the impact of the truth that these things do happen.
I found myself laughing at parts in this book, but I never forgot where we were and what was happening.
4.5 starsRather funny and biting satire on religion, politics and the possibility of humanity managing to destroy the world; written at about the time of the Cuban missile crisis.
By various nefarious means the Americans and Soviets have it, as does the dictator of the Caribbean island of San Lorenzo (loosely based on Haiti).
As does the fact that, as its founder says, it’s all “shameful lies” anyway.The plot is about as far-fetched as it can be; but it is funny.
No damn cat, no damn cradle.”Vonnegut seems to think the whole world is a bit of a mess and that fact in itself is actually rather funny.
The best way to cure Reader’s Block is to reread authors whose works induce chest pains of happiness in one’s .
But this novel is a structural mess, shambolic and meandering and at times a little laboured.
Mostly, however, Vonnegut is at his satirical peak and some of his finest creations and enduring ideas are explored in the novel, among them Bokononism and ice-nine and the weary reticence of a cynical humanist who loves people so much he can’t stand their company.
“Tiger got to hunt, bird got to fly;Man got to sit and wonder 'why, why, why?'Tiger got to sleep, bird got to land;Man got to tell himself he understand.” You must have already come across this quote somewhere I'm sure. But if not, then come, let's bask in the glory of its supercalifragilisticexpialidocious (:D) wisdom. After reading my second Vonnegut, I could only fathom one feeling for us humans in this vast unending universe: Pity. Don't these lines elucidate just how miserable we really ar
It was like being in a coma of satire and black humor but at the same time my senses subconsciously decoding and instilling profound and astoundingly real meanings which flooded my thoughts only after I snapped out of that coma.As I have mentioned above, since the inception of mankind, our biggest and pat-on-the-back worthy achievements so far have been a:Religion and b:Science, and this book categorically tackles both, accredits great importance to both, and ridicules both.
Bokononism being a fake religion created on the ideology of 'Living by the harmless untruths that make you brave and kind and healthy and happy.' Sounds like the best thing ever right?
Damn impatience trait.Jonah aims to write about the now-dead scientist who is credited for being a creator of a bomb – he pairs up with the three odd children left behind from the man, and they voyage to a new place that holds a weird and quirky religion, Bokononism.I know Bokononism was created and employed to give more message regarding religion, but it was so annoying.
I got tired of some of the stuff being too out there and satirical half the time, while the other half I ended up enjoying and admiring the effort.
A Bokononist ritual during which two people press the soles of their bare feet together.
Bokononists believe it is impossible to be sole-to-sole with another person without loving that person, provided the feet of both persons are clean and nicely tended.
dynamic tension: Theory that good societies can be built only by pitting good against evil, and by keeping the tension between the two high at all times.
Derived from a theory of Charles Atlas, that muscles can be built without bar bells or spring exercisers, by simply pitting one set of muscles against another.
Bokononists believe that all humanity is divided into such teams.
Kada je postalo jasno da nikakva reforma vlade i gospodarstva neće pomoći toj zemlji da se izvuče iz jada, religija je postala jedino oruđe nade.Istina je bila neprijatelj naroda jer je istina bila tako grozna, pa je zato Bokonon preuzeo na sebe zadatak da ljude počne zavaravati sve boljim i boljim lažima.Ovaj citat mi je odmah upao u oko, jer kao da opisuje našu banana republiku i naše političare koji su očito predani bokononisti....Godinu dana prije izlaska knjige, dakle, 1962., bila je Kubanska raketna kriza, kojom je Hladni rati došao na vrhunac.
He is full of murderous resentment of people who are ignorant without having come by their ignorance the hard way.”You can always find great quotes in Vonnegut books that are effective even outside of the book’s context.
Beside this Vonnegut also parodies the development of a new religion, Bokononism, arising out of the need of a people living in the harsh conditions of a little island called San Lorenzo, the setting for the second of this book.Kurt Vonnegut’s novels are not like anybody else, the micro-chapters, the satirical style, the humour which often has a melancholy undertone.
I now regret all those years in which I wasn't reading Vonnegut, because I should have been reading Vonnegut.
