https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73966.When_God_Writes_Your_Love_Story
FAITHFULLYTonight i saw a shooting star,Made me wonder where you are.For years i have been dreaming 
along with I Kissed Dating Goodbye (Joshua Harris) and Let Me Be A Woman (Elizabeth Elliot), this book has given me so much inspiration on waiting for God's chosen one, and has given me so much motivation on living my single status for the Lord and surrendering it all to Him. i don't know how exactly it happened, but books like this are not just books.
they are a life-transforming testimony of the power of God and how the Holy Spirit goes into every area of our lives to make it joyful and be a living testimony of Christ.Eric and Leslie Ludy, i am very thankful that God uses them to inspire and enlighten us.
I am not really a fan of romantic stories as my tolerance for cheesy stuff is not that high, that is, for movies and books alike.
For so long, I have avoided reading this book because of its title.
It is the most honest and relevant book I've ever read because it does not deny the human struggles on love and relationships and at the same time, it doesn't teach an already desperate person to compromise or lower down his or her standards.
The love topic is indeed a gray area and maybe what this book presents is just one of the many takes people have on the matter.
Up until a few months ago, I gave this book a 5 star rating and would have recommended it to anyone that crossed my path. However, God has taken me on a journey and my views have changed drastically. Read this article:http://theartinlife.wordpress.com/201...Instead of this book, I would HIGHLY, HIGHLY recommend Gary Thomas's The Sacred Search, and also would recommend Jason and Crystalina Evert's How To Find Your Soul mate Without Losing Your Soul and Dannah Gresh's Get Lost.
i bought this when i was a freshman in college (you know how that is...
all wide eyed and bushy tailed away from home and independent at a christian college, feeling inspired by crap that looks like this, chose merely by the cover), never touched it.
so now, 8 years later, figured i'd give it a shot, against all that looks ew about it.
but as it turns out, i'm 26 and a self-thinking educated individual who's fairly liberal, which apparently isn't the right combination for this book's appeal.
it would have been pretty good when i was 12 though.
Somehow just spending some fun time with another is some sort of relationship masturbation and of course those ancient guys were not too fun-loving and disapprove of someone masturbating because the female will not get knocked up that way and might enjoy orgasms.
I started having sex in my teens and my husband did too (only not with each other) and we are madly and passionately in love and have had a wonderful marriage for years.
The idea of an imaginary character writing your love story is bizarre but the rest of the books this lady gave me is equally so.
I found this book to be very inspirational in my life. After dating and dating and dating, I have become very frustrated with the type of "men" out there. This book gives good insight into what to look for in a good and potentially "lasting" relationship. Since reading, I have decided that I am done looking and if I'm meant to be in a relationship, it will come when it's supposed to.
I also like how they encourage readers to delve deeper in their relationship with the Lord and pursue Him first before anyone else.The Ludy’s state and I believe also, that the only way to ever find the one true love God made for you, and only you, is to first fall in love with Him and stop dating around for the right guy/girl.
What should I do?” The answers are quite lovely, although I don’t think a lot of people will agree with some of them.Pros:Personally, I really enjoyed this book.
One of the better Christian dating/relationship books I've read.
I appreciated the reminder that single, dating, or married, the most important relationship in our lives should be with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
My biggest hang-up about this book was the emphasis put on the concept of "saving your heart for your future spouse", which judging from the anecdotes told translates to "only date your future husband/wife." It's sounds great.
The book references the "Cool Runnings" quote: "If you're not enough without it, you'll never be enough with it." Basically, you should be a whole and complete person in the Lord, single or not.
I highly recommend it to all my single friends.
This couple answered a lot of questions I had regarding my relationships with guys my age and how to be friends with them while still keeping my heart and thoughts pure.
During the time I spent within the pages, I feel I also grew closer to God, and was both encouraged and inspired in my walk with Him as well as my relationships with my siblings, parents, and Christian friends.
Mr. and Mrs. Ludy did such a good job advising singles and answering the trickiest questions we might have in this book.
I know my friend and I are similar in ways, so I think that we have more or less the same reasons for recommending books.And I LOVE THIS.I wouldn't think that I would love this in the same way, if I read this a few years back.
This book was published in 1999, and I can still totally relate to it.Several friends have read it years back, and they can still relate to it.Parang Bible lang nga talaga, indeed.What I like the most about it, is that it applies to several "kinds" of people.
It brought me closer and closer to the Heart of My Lord GOD, Jesus Christ.
That's true that Jesus Christ is only the One who can fulfill and satisfied our women's feminim longing soul about true love.
His desire for us is we knew, understand, feel and accept His unconditional love.
Praise be to GOD who created the True Love Story and it's true that nowadays there is still True Love Story for you and for me, for all who want to put his/her trust and lives only in HIM, The Creator of The True Love itself.
(The husband pertaining to the males and the wife, obviously, the females) This book made me start to think of my future husband as a real actual person (somewhat already a part of my life) instead of a figment of my imagination that I am waiting to find one day.
I recommend it if you feel like your love life is out of control and need God to swoop in and get you back on track, but I feel like everyone should read this book before getting into a serious relationship, just to make sure that they are making the right decisions that their actions are lining up with what God really wants!
I mean, I know of a couple people who do but just the views of the importance of saving yourself for your future spouse and trusting God are pretty radical these days.
This goes a long with a verse in Proverbs 31 that I've had on my mind (sorry, can't think of the exact reference) that says 'she does him (her husband) good ALL THAT DAYS of her life'.
Something else that was really cool is that they also said, 'Your future spouse is out there, breathing, alive.'They also stress the importance of not just waiting around for your spouse to come (like Sarah Mally does in her book).
This book was pretty good.
See this is the point that I got from the book: It's not about us, it's not about what we want for ourselves, it's literally giving the pen to God and saying "Do what YOU want with my love story Lord." I mean, after all, aren't we created by Him and for Him?
Why exclude our love life from that?
I'm seventeen now, in college and people ask me why I don't jump at the chance of flirting with guys, and partying or having a 'fling' and what not, and I always refer this book to them.
Nevertheless, this book has made a huge impact in my life.
I guess this book might be good if you meet the man you're going to marry at 14 or so, and get married at 18, like Leslie Ludy did. However, if you're anywhere past middle school, this book is just cheesy and really, pretty useless.I read this as a freshman in college, hoping for something uplifting during my difficult transition, but it just made me angry, upset and "behind" for not being freaking engaged at 18. Glad I snapped out of that funk and realized what I was really reacting to and how absurd it was.
Eric said that when he was single and lonely he use to write letters to his future wife.
God could have called Eric to singleness as far as he knew at the time he wrote those letters.Well besides those things I thought the book was great and would recommend the book to any Christian struggling with letting God write their love story, or any Christian that thinks they can write their own love story without God. God used this book and others to help me give my romantic life to God. I pray that God will also use this book or something else to do the same with you.
I'm not part of the targeted audience as I've been married for 20 years, but I look back on my pre-marriage years, and wish I'd had this book to read.
They (Eric and Leslie Ludy) stress having a goal bigger than marriage, becoming complete in Christ, so you can use your single years productively.
I wasn't married until I was 32, and honestly I was "fulfilled" as a single person.
But I certainly didn't "guard my heart" to close out any Christian guy who came my way.Overall, I strongly recommend this book for anyone who desires to have someday, a marriage made in heaven.

What a book! Great advice and wisdom to learn. Purity is more than just a word. I enjoyed seeing the personal stories that brought the lifestyle of purity to life on the pages of this book. Must-read for everyone thinking about entering into a romantic relationship.
That seems like a cop-out and it's a bit illogical to me.For once, I'd love to see a Christian relationship book make this bold but Bible-proven observation: if you actively seek marriage and pursue it with prayer, you will get married at some point but only God knows when.
Again, we are the responsible moral agents; so this approach of "this-or-that" or "yes-no" answers with God, as prevalent as it is in Christian thought, is unfounded and unsupported by Scripture.Likewise, Ludy's statement and similar ones in the book generate a misleading conclusion that the next person you meet after praying such a prayer will be "the One." Countless men and women have done that, myself included, only to uncover that who I thought might be my prince turned out to be a frog.
I felt like although the entire book was the definition of corny and reeked of "real situations" that were clearly made up for the purpose of the book, it really made me want to put God as my number one love and continue to be patient and wait for Him to bring me the one when He wants to (which I guess was the point of the book, so good job, Ludys!).
And there is a deep need inside of us to be loved and cherished for a lifetime by the man to whom we give that gift.""To experience a God-written love story, our standards for what we are seeking in a relationship cannot be determined by our culture.
I was prepared to give this book 4 stars, but then I read the relationship q&a at the end.At the end of the book Eric Ludy advises that women should not pursue relationships with men because it "dulls" and "robs" them of their "masculine strength," which would in turn lead to a lackluster relationship because women are meant to "wait patiently" for the man to initiate the relationship because it is their "place".
When I read things like that, I can't support the book anymore because it endorses a sexist agenda where women are meant to wait for men, be protected by men, and to be a "prize" for men to win, as opposed to actively participating in a mutually beneficial relationship.The entire segment objectified women and I was absolutely disgusted by it.
I think a lot could be said about second marriages particularly since we will face many difference challenges, but perhaps that's a book about marriages and not dating.What finally caught my attention is that it dawned on me that regardless of whether or not I've been married before and divorced since 1997 that my goal should still be to please God and to be an example to other women who are single, divorced, or widowed.
This book is great for anyone who is single and wants to bring glory to God by the way they live their life.
This book is mainly about Eric and Leslie's relationship.
they use their experiences and learned lessons to teach young adults about love.
They talk about personal experiences to be able to show how God helped them.
Also they try to teach how God should be the foundation of any love life.
As they talk about their relationship they are showing how if God is the foundation how amazing your love life could be.
It taught me, as a Christian, how I should go about a relationship.
It taught me that God should be writing my love story not me.
For someone who has more life experience much of this book will seem a bit trite and juvenile: feeling lonely for months or waiting for find someone a few years?
The book seems to say people who follow God's calling will find great romance.
I know numerous examples of people who followed hard after the Lord, who let the Lord write their lives with His pen, who desired a spouse and never found someone, or where it took decades.
Sometimes we endure hard things in this life for other people's benefit, sometimes God has something else for us.
So often, we hear in the church, "Don't have sex before marriage," but this couple takes purity to a whole different level, exploring multiple aspects of it.
I feel like the church has steered clear of offering guidance on this very important issue, and this information vacuum has been hurtful to so many couples.
One of my favorite parts of the book were the questions at the end of each chapter, since they helped me to examine my own beliefs and helped me think through what I was doing in relationships, as well as how I could do things differently.
I would have liked to hear more of the specifics of Eric and Leslie's relationship, as well as other couples.
I read this book several years ago and I loved it, it spoke to me even then...
giving those that are not in relationships new perspecitve.Rather than being discouraged and disheartened trust God and alllow him to work in your life, and while God is off creating magic you do your part by opening yourself up to his will as well as doing your best to become a better you for your future spouse.God is a romantic and and wants nothing more than your happiness.
If we just allow him, in his time, to bring someone into our lives then we will not regret it.I know this is what I want for my life...
This book is written by the Ludy's, a christian couple who decided to let God write their love story!
this book was simple yet touching in the giving of these pure truths!
This book is great if you are a girl who is maybe giving up hope in the beautiful fairy tale marriage, or the boy who is wanting a pure and wonderful wife, this book gives hope to singles and married couples alike.
(although married couples application is not until the end of the book) I loved it and I found it to be full of truth and inspiration.
Another cheesy book title which I frowned upon when I hear about it - yet this book resonates with me and will not stop talking about it for a long time. This book has brought a lot of truths that changed me, my personal perspectives, only in just few days. Giving this five star because I just love the book from cover to cover.
