https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/346064.When_the_Going_Was_Good
Waugh skilfully documents his travels through Yemen, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Zanzibar, Kenya, Congo, Guyana, and Brazil.As I read this, I begin to feel a bit of nostalgia for the "good old days" of travel.
That nostalgia was quickly extinguished, though, by Waugh's witty narrative, in which one clearly sees how miserable world travel was back then.
As Paul Johnson once wrote in The American Spectator about this volume, we're so lucky we can see the world "so quickly and in comparative comfort".Some of these experiences were quite formative for Waugh, and I can certainly see how some of these travels inspired his later novels.
****1/2.If you took Mark Twain, Sir Richard Burton, and Bill Bryson and placed them all in a box and shook it up, I’m sure you would end up with the Evelyn Waugh that wrote the travel books that these excerpts were taken.
In all, Waugh selected sections from four travel books that he had previously written and presented them in this volume.
The original books were written between 1929 and 1935, and chronicle his travels through the Mediterranean, into Abyssinia (now Ethiopia), South Africa, and Brazil.
In all, these excerpts represent some of the best travel writing that I have ever read – bar none.
There are moments and much humor in these collected fragments of kafkaesque adventures.Travel is a kind of divine punishment and here we see it through the twilight of the empire. One can easily see the influence of travel in Waugh's novels, and this is perhaps the most satisfying aspect of reading this.
Each did contain certain passages that he found worth preserving, however, and -- in the awful post-war world of 1946, when tourism seemed dead for the near future -- serving as a nostalgic reminder of what travel was like "when the going was good." He therefore collected his edited travel writings from the four books under that title.Going Was Good contains five chapters, in chronological order -- (1) travels by sea throughout the eastern Mediterranean; (2) a humorous and condescending account of an impulsive visit to Abyssinia (Ethiopia) to witness the coronation of the new emperor, Haile Selassie; (3) travels in Aden and East Africa, concluding with a frustrating crossing of the Belgian Congo as a "shortcut" back to England; (4) travels through British Guiana (Guayana) and Brazil; and (5) a return to Abyssinia in 1935 as a "war correspondent' in response to the war with Mussolini's Italy.
"When the Going Was Good presents five long excerpts from the four travel books Evelyn Waugh wrote between 1929 and 1935, chosen by the author.
Starting with a tour of Mediterranean pleasure dens, Waugh pushes on to Abyssinia (where he reports indeliby on the coronation of Haile Selassie), across the continent to South Africa, to the wilds of Brazil and British guiana, and back to Abyssinia in the wake of the Italian invasion."~~back cogverThis isn't a travel book.
That first excerpt -- the tour of the Mediterranean pleasure dens -- was an excruciatingly boring account of mean or boring things done to the author as he traveled by ship around the Mediterranean.
I recommend both this book and the cocktail pick-me-up Evelyn drinks on page 59. Together, they make a splendid combination.
Waugh's accounts of his travels between 1929 and 1935 include cruises, excursions to Brazil and a coronation in Ethiopia. Great stuff. Interesting the way in which he can be objective about the hardships. This was not five star travel as we know it. Great descriptions and character studies.
I didn't know Evelyn Waugh was so intrepid-perhaps because he didn't use the travel material as much as his contemporary Graham Greene in his novels.
Chapter two, "A Coronation in 1930" from Remote People, which recounts the coronation of Emperor (Abyssinia - now known as Ethiopia) Haile Selassie I, which Waugh reported on in 1930 as special correspondent for The Times.
Chapter Three, "Globe-Trotting" also from Remote People, chronicles his travel elsewhere in Africa.
Waugh used much of the African exploits in his early novel , Black Mischief (1932), and much of his writing in this book is quite charming and funny.
I liked it.
Waugh is a typical product of his class and generation.
This is a collection he made from his own travel writing; the material of novels also, but told winningly in the first person.
I would never be able to share all his viewpoints, of course, especially the one that the poor aren't quite fully human, that's a note I am familiar with from most English literature in the 30's - almost exclusively the writers from this period are public school boys.
And Waugh's feel for the language overcomes some of his personal shortcoming.
The internal writer is interesting.

this book is a must.
for any one that has traveled or wants to, you should search for this.
and search you might have to.
it is no longer in print!!!
the stories of this true wanderer at heart are funny and captivating.
the way people used to travel in the 1930's was amazing, the places you could go, the things you could see.
as an avid traveler, sometimes it is hard to find a place that you feel is untouched.
as our technology has advanced, the gaps in our cultures have closed.
and i think this is a loss.
Don't read this book if you actually want to learn much about the areas or culture Waugh writes about - like far too many European authors of the period he assumes that any non-European civilisation will only ever be ruidementary by default and that all non-European people are at best as intelligent as a bright and somewhat charming child.
However if you want entertaining tales of journalistic stupidity, strange ex-pats abroad and the fact that whilst on holiday everything that can go wrong, will, you won't be as disappointed.
Waugh's prose is as marvellous as ever, and at least he believes in mocking everyone, including himself, and not just those crazy foreigners.
Very readable. Waugh was indeed an adventuresome young man, though he states in the preface that travels such as his, including such undeniable "rough" travel, was commonplace with young men of his generation - "It was what we did."Waugh travelled on assignment for various periodicals, and for his own interest. His writings in this anthology are vivid period pieces of a time long past; the prejudices and mores of the time are indelibly recorded.
Travel in the 1930s as the world slid downhill towards chaos and destruction. Evelyn Waugh's acerbic observations of the manners and mores of both the visitor and the visited remain as pungent today as when they first appeared. Granted, those of a sensitive nature might find offense in some of his observations of native cultures but Waugh is an equal-opportunity writer as his comments on many of his fellow Britons are just as sharp.
Adventures and experiences abroad related with Waugh's acerbic wit. Fascinating insights into travel in the early twentieth century - just as much for the similarities (the behaviour of tourists, for instance, which is entertainingly mocked) as that which has changed irrevocably, through war or the end of empire. There is also revealed, during a sojourn in Athens, an excellent hangover cure.
A collection of old traveling memoirs of Waugh. The writing is good and the stories are often quite funny and insightful, as Waugh generally is, but these types of things are not interesting to today's readers. Today we can travel to New places or watch videos of those places rather than read a travelogue. Good piece of reading, but out of date.
Decent travel writing from the 1930's, although not as good as Norman Lewis. There are some sketchy racist undertones and the occasional outright remark, such as the following when referring to some African peoples in relation to their colonial occupiers : 'It seemed just tribute from the weaker races to their mentors.'
An entertaining snapshot of the interwar period, and of Waugh's own mind. Although adventurous, he doesn't really seem to have enjoyed, much less respected, most of the cultures he visits in this collection of his travel writing.
Holy cow. One of the most racist, pompous, colonial pieces of crap I've ever read. And for that, it is well worth the read. Its worth having insight into the world views and values of an overbearing, high class British punk at the height of Empire.Educational. If you can stand it.
Waugh travels the world in the 20s, blissfully unaware that Europe is on the edge of the abyss. "I'm glad I went when the going was good." I'm a sucker for Waugh, but this is not his best.
Great window into travel by the wealthy and pretentious in the 1920s/1930s.
Boring.
A great set of travel writings to disparate locales.
Before there was tourism, there was travel, and Waugh was an expert. His description of the heat in Zanzibar will make you prespire!
Fantastic travelogue of a time and life style, while English colonialism was still a powerful force worldwide.
