https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16068905-fangirl
Actual rating: 2.5 Levi said. “It’s hard for me to get my head around. It’s like hearing that Harry Potter is gay." Ok, why the fuck are you referencing Harry Potter after having based the entire book around a fictionalized version of Harry Potter known as Simon Snow? Why?!If you wanted a true sense of fandom, don't look for it here. Don't get me wrong, I liked this book, but it is a coming-of-age book that was misrepresented as a book about fandom. This would have been so much better if it had
It does nothing to dispel the myths of the laughable socially inept fanboy/fangirl, and that's just a damned shame.The first 20% of the book focused lightly on the fandom, and then the book kind of forgot about it with the exception of the "Simon Snow" excerpts, which were absolutely fucking pointless to the story as a whole.The summary brought in the tantalizing question "Will Cath be able to leave Simon Snow behind?" That's just it!
Except for a few brief moments of Cath reading and telling people about her fanfiction writing and about her love of fanfiction---we almost never hear about the "fangirl" aspect of the book again.
It’s like Rainbow Rowell writes in peanut butter and stolen moments and lazy eyelash wishes.♥That’s the best and only way I can describe it.♥It’s 433 pages of a guaranteed good day.I’m so jealous of you guys right now, it’s crazy!Because I can’t read this book for the first time again.So when you finish it, and you’re just sitting there all thoughtful and wordless (grinning like an 8th grader with prom tickets)… You’re not alone. ;)  This book’s about the good ol’ college experience.*ahem*… The
It’s like Rainbow Rowell writes in peanut butter and stolen moments and lazy eyelash wishes.♥That’s the best and only way I can describe it.♥It’s 433 pages of a guaranteed good day.I’m so jealous of you guys right now, it’s crazy!Because I can’t read this book for the first time again.So when you finish it, and you’re just sitting there all thoughtful and wordless (grinning like an 8th grader with prom tickets)… You’re not alone.
I mean, she writes fan fiction and she’s famous (but anonymous) for it, people make her nervous (which is where that snarky wit of hers comes in), and she has a twin sister who’s also her best friend and is Cath’s total opposite.But I think my favorite thing about Cath is that she’s so damn relatable!
It's time for Rainbow Rowell and I to break up.I didn't want to admit it, but after reading all of her books now, I can safely say her writing style just isn't for me.
The strange thing about my reading experience with Fangirl is that I actually deeply connected with all of the characters on a personal level.
Rainbow Rowell's characters ARE her stories.One thing positive that came out of reading all of Rowell's books is that, I've learned that I am not the character-driven sort of reader.
IDK WHAT TO SAY OTHER THAN I LOVED IT. IT WAS SO GOOD. GO READ IT IF YOU HAVEN'T.
“Real life was something happening in her peripheral vision.” I enjoyed Fangirl. Though the way I feel about it is almost exactly how I feel about Eleanor & Park. They are both cute books with complex, well-developed characters, and yet I feel like something is missing that just holds both books back from being truly memorable.Rowell writes quirky, detailed characters that are different and honest. I liked the antisocial, awkward and weird Cath. I thought her story - both as a popular fanfi
I've never been much of a fanfic reader/writer myself, but I have been the kind of person who has been completely obsessed with a fandom, and I have never read a book that has done anything quite like this one.
yes, I like the characters, and yes, I like the dialogue, but I feel there is something lacking in the plot/story arc of the two Rowell books I've read.
I guess they are introspective "coming-of-age" books that don't really have much of a story, and I tend to feel like not much has happened or been achieved by the novel's close.It's odd, though, because I often enjoy character-driven stories.
Whether you find yourself in the insecure girl who's afraid of life; the happy-go-lucky guy always ready with a smile; the self-centered sister; the deceitful friend; the emotionally disabled dad; the outspoken, honest roommate; the talented but uncertain writer; the intellectual or the one who falls short; the life of the party or the one hiding in the shadows—there are bits and pieces of everyone scattered throughout this story; representing all the highs and lows that make us exactly who we are.
Drama-free.▪ Characters: Relatable and distinctive.• Plot: Centers on a college introvert who writes fanfic coming out of her shell.▪ Writing: Witty, fluid, unique, gripping.
Reread October 2015: AHHHHH I felt all the love for this book that I felt the first time plus more! I love everything about this book and I want to reread it again immediately ;DOriginal review from December 2013: Fangirl was so cute and relatable! I loved every single character and their relationships with each other. Rainbow Rowell's writing style is wonderful and I can't wait to read more books from her!
Trusted GR friends have loved this book, and I thought it would actually be -a bit- about the fangirling life (which I have been living fully for a year and a half, so I was like “Oooh, my ELEMENT, yay!”)Dear Got in Himmel, was I wrong.
IT’S EXPLOITATIVE*lies down in order to recuperate*The writing of the Simon Snow excerpts is terrible.“my fair share of apple-cheeked protagonism”*cause of death: cringing*“She knew she was lovely, and she shared it like a gift.
It introduced me to a new world that I consider to be like a second family.Rainbow Rowell came up with such fantastic characters and the dynamics between all of them blows me away every time.Like, it physically hurts trying to stop smiling when Cath and Levi or Cath and Reagan have a scene together.And I, of course, have to feature one of my favorite interactions between Cath and Reagan:“You’re making me feel sorry for you again,” Reagan said.Cath turned her fork on Reagan.
5 AMAZING & SPECTACULAR STARS!!!  I just LOVED this book! It made me so happy! Everything about it- just fantastic! Cath is a twin. She is a writer. She is a Simon Snow fan. Quite possibly the biggest Simon Snow fan there is. Cather’s big thing is fanfiction. She takes her most favorite books, and writes her own stories. She makes the two main guys in the books gay and in love.  "It's bad enough that you have homemade Simon Snow posters," Reagan had said last night while she was getting read
Cath spends the first semester of college making friends with Levi and Reagan, trying to deal with her twin sister pulling away from her, being separated from their father, and trying to figure out if she can write in the real world, make her own characters and her own way, while trying to keep up with her Simon Snow fan fiction.
Reasons I want a Levi: He works at StarbucksHe likes to be read toHe is nice to everyoneHe smiles all the timeHe thinks Cath's geekiness is endearing He is swoony and sweet <3
All of these books made me fall in love with their characters.
Fangirl delivered all the awesome and addictive elements of a story that keep me coming back, that keep me up reading past midnight.I don't like to go into specific details when I review books, because I don't want to spoil things for those who haven't read it yet.
Lets just say, that if you like reading YA novels, then this book should be at the top of your list.
4.2/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ “To really be a nerd, she'd decided, you had to prefer fictional worlds to the real one.” ― Rainbow Rowell, Fangirl I honestly adored this book. I adored the complex characters, the fandom aspect, the writing, the setting, the romance. This book was a true delight. I got a bit confused, at first, with the narration of this book being in third person, while most books of this genre are written in first person, but fan fics are always written in third person. I hope Rainbow did
A character with social anxiety, a fangirl, a writer, a loner, a character which at the beginning of the book was exactly like I was at her age.
I feel like the author kind of forgot about Cath's social anxiety after the middle of the book.
And like Cath, after years, I found the right people to share my blog with, my love for fandoms, this world that was always been for myself and people online that I knew.
An alternative version of Harry Potter, the fucking King 👑 of books, is always something I love to read.
Edit: Downgrading the rating to 4. When I look back now, there are some minor issues, which I initially overlooked. So, yeah, maybe a 4.5 read but definitely not a 5. Initial Reaction After Completion You know how we all cry at tragedies. We cry with Rose in Titanic, with Liesel in The Book Thief, with Harry in Shell Cottage, with Maya in Forbidden. We are a sentimental specie and we cry a damn lot.But how many of us cry at an especially beautiful ending. When wounds heal, when all loose ends ar
new and you don't know if you'll ever feel so much invested in something ever again.So, yes I'm rambling, reading through Cath's obsession and fangirl-ism was nostalgic and sad and delightful and relatable all at once.Conclusion, I may or not be wholly ruled by my emotions here.
And they complemented each other perfectly.So, needless to say, what wasn't there to love about the guy?So, inspite of all Levi’s swoon worthiness, if I talk about something that transcends even him, then you know, the book is good.
WELL. FANGIRL. IT’S KIND OF A BIG DEAL RIGHT NOW. I read it, so let’s talk about it!Things I liked:- The examination of fanfiction as a type of literature- The importance of family through sibling and parent relationships- The importance of moving on and letting go (although I felt this plot point was drobbed and underdeveloped.. but the idea was there!)- Adorable adorable romance- Showing the reality of social awkwardness- The alternate Harry Potter land- That it made me pull almost an all-nigh
I read it, so let’s talk about it!Things I liked:-	The examination of fanfiction as a type of literature-	The importance of family through sibling and parent relationships-	The importance of moving on and letting go (although I felt this plot point was drobbed and underdeveloped..
but the idea was there!)-	Adorable adorable romance-	Showing the reality of social awkwardness-	The alternate Harry Potter land-	That it made me pull almost an all-nighter finishing it-	OVERALL: I thought this was a well written, cute story, with a cute romance that made me feel all bubbly, while still demonstrating some important transition from teen-to-adult lessonsThings I didn’t like:-	The main character.
;-)When I began to read “Fangirl” I was looking for something fluffy and nice and after finishing the book I can say that I actually got everything I expected!
;-))Well anyway, what I’m trying to tell you is that everyone who’s ever been part of some Fandom is actually kind of bound to enjoy this book!
XD “Fangirl” describes the feelings of the fans so good and I swear whenever Cath went into rhapsodies about Simon and Baz I was like: I feel you girl, I so do!!!!
*lol* Oh and the fact Levi and Cath read the final book together?
Screaming internally because I want my own Levi now, please and thank you.
It's one of those "cuddle up with a blanket"-"sip hot chocolate"-"feel good"-books.
I think this works so good for because Rainbow Rowell captured the kind of sadness and loneliness that also functions as an emotional wall between the protagonist and the outer world with such skillfulness that I immediately recognised this feeling.
There's lots of novels that feature bookworms who'd rather live between the pages than in real life.
But Rainbow Rowell is the first author who really had me believing.Apart from that, I can only compliment her on the characters and dialouges.
You know, it’s been so long since I’ve disliked a book to the point of wanting to rant about it that I was starting to think I’d lost my cynical edge.So I guess that’s one point in Fangirl’s favor.And, you know, I liked Fangirl at first.
To make her comfortable, her Prince Charming suggests she read a slash (homosexual) fan fiction she wrote about two characters from a best-selling children’s book series (the fictional versions of Harry Potter and Draco Malfoy).
The big romantic scene features a virginal straight girl reading her boyfriend a gay love story that she wrote about characters from a children’s book.Look, I’m all about different strokes for different folks.
For the approximately 3 people on Goodreads who haven’t read this book, we follow Cath, a dweeby anxious fanfiction sensation entering her freshman year of college with her twin, Wren, who we are constantly told is the cooler/hotter/more confident sister.
My favorite Reagan moment is when Cath keeps talking about how she’s not the ~type of girl~ who steals someone’s boyfriend and how Levi (we’ll get to him) would never date a ~girl like her~, Reagan just keeps saying, “The girl kind?” BECAUSE GIRLS DON’T COME IN TYPES, PEOPLE.There’s more good stuff, too!
Why I Fangirl over Rainbow Rowell's Fangirl (Spoilers: Levi)If you've been following my reviews for a while now, you probably know by now that Rainbow Rowell's Fangirl is an all-time favorite of mine; I make sure to reread it every single year.This time around, I decided to revisit the book through a different medium by checking out the audiobook for the first time, as I mention in the Parks and Rec book tag (where I feature Reagan for Ron Swanson's question, yet somehow still wound up includin
Talking to Reagan was like standing in front of an oncoming train.”However, since I already uploaded an extensive review full of ravishing ravings for Fangirl in 2016 that you can check out here, I decided to twist things around for this reread and feature the list of everything important I noted during my reading experience (which I can visually represent with this very accurate gif below):• Starting with the most beloved cast of characters that always bring out the best feelings out of me, I made sure to take my sweet time with this audiobook, listening to a little at a time every other week or so.
Maybe, maybe not.None the less, and quite to my surprise, I LOVED Simon and Baz. Probably because… Hey, I knew they came straight out of the Harry Potter series, but the author changing physical features, names and even personality traits, helped me in forgetting that piece of information and just focus on the new story she provided us with.
Well, Fangirl did not make me feel like that.
The girl is a book addict (just like many of us), writes, gets straight A’s and doesn’t go on partying and drinking every night.
4.5 stars! As someone with anxiety who also has immersed herself in fandom since high school, this was almost the perfect contemporary for me. I still struggled with whether to give this 4 or 5 stars. Who knows... After a day I may come back to give it 5.. I did read it in one day after all.
This was everything I wanted and more. I absolutely loved it <3
Yes, I'd like me one Levi Stewart please, thank you.(Art by this very talented human.)___________________________________Book Song: Afraid by The Neighbourhood.___________________________________
Loved this book <3 Full review/booktalk: http://youtu.be/x6DmZnc6Nd8
I want more.
i've never loved any book or any character enough to read fanfic about.
there are books i wish had sequels, sure, but i have never wanted to seek out work by people other than the original author about specific characters or worlds.
it is a whole subculture that i would never have the energy to be a part of, but i marvel at it, mostly through dana, who is herself a fangirl, and who gave me a heads-up to the only fanfic i have ever read, and which i truly loved:http://archiveofourown.org/works/601147until now.
i kind of wish these books did exist, so i could read them, and then read this fanfic and follow magicath every night.
I seriously just love this book so much.
(Says she who has emergency peanut butter in her room.) All of Cath's quirks and introverted ways...I just related to, so this made the book hugely special to me.
(Har, har.) Oh, yeah, there were other characters besides Cath.
But, as Levi ends up mentioning, it's like Wren "broke up" with Cath.
Cath is an introvert dumped in a scary new college...Wren, let me hit you with a book.
Wren made me angry the whole time, but she was very well written as a character.
I LOVED THIS BOOK.
I know some of my friends said that this was the best book this year.
I was like – did I get another book than all the other reviewers?
I want to go into another world and feel happy things.
I want it to sparkle and I want to feel like I want to move into that world.
I don't want to read about reality.
And don't want to read about grey everyday life.So for that reason, Fangirl wasn't for me.
If you like the genre and want to read a fine coming of age book, then go ahead.
First read November 2013Reread October 2015I definitely changed my opinions on this book after reading it a second time, so here's a little updated review!Back in 2013, I read and reviewed 'Fangirl', and since then I've read it again only to find my thoughts and opinions have changed.When I first read the book, I remember being so frustrated with Cath for throwing away her University degree by not doing her assignments because she didn't feel like it.
I just didn’t get why she was being a whiny, selfish, annoying character sometimes, but most of the time, I really did like her character.Okay, moving on to the good things:I LOVED the fandom aspect to this and the fact that it was extremely similar to Harry Potter.
