https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/345500.The_Sabbath
I could feel the gears shifting in my head as I read this Jewish classic on the importance of sanctifying time instead of space. I'm sure I barely scratched the surface of the concepts that Heschel wishes to communicate. To plumb the depths will require rereading and reflection. It's a small book, packed with meaning, and one I will revisit again and again.
This 100 page book is love song to it.
When I took the Big Dunk one of the questions my Beit Din asked me was what particular observance meant the most to me and I said Shabbat.
The Sabbath helped me see and think about Shabbat in new ways that can make it even more special.
On Sunday afternoon I usually start thinking about what I’m going to make for Shabbat dinner.
Then I get to start looking forward to shopping on Friday morning and spending Friday afternoon cooking and preparing for Shabbat.
I can’t describe to you how much more lovely our weekends our since we started observing Shabbat as a family.
At the same time, there were definitely parts I didn't understand, probably because I am looking in from the outside.
In a world where we work with Space, using our time to create things, build, make, the sabbath is a time to cease in our obsession with space and live in the presence of time.
In the middle he is working with a parable that I didn't understand so I couldn't really connect to it.
this was one part I wasn't sure I agreed with, for I do believe that we will continue to do work (in its unfallen form) in eternity.
Heschel presents a stunningly simple and profound thesis: it is not in space, but in time, that we find God's likeness. In a few short passages this book changed the way I think about not only the Sabbath, but the nature of God and my relationship with Him. This is an absolute must-read for anyone trying to understand and experience holiness.
but I want to elevate it in my mind and heart (if that makes sense).
I think Heschel would understand what I want to do because this book is obviously written for that concept.
Although I have to admit that the three rabbis parable is leaving me a bit stranded as it goes on for some time.I meant to add that observing the sacred with a liturgical calendar is familiar to Catholic thinking since our liturgical calendar is key to our worship.
However, Heschel's "cathedral of time" elevates this to something new and beautiful.
Heschel teaches me much about sacramentality and liturgy in my own Christian tradition by guiding me to a richer understanding of how the Jewish tradition understands the sacredness of time as a gift of divine presence in the lives of God's people. Lyrical and erudite, the book facilitates Sabbath: reflection on time as a gift rather than an enemy, the true, reliable indicator of God's goodness and presence in the world. "Creation is the language of God, Time is His song..." (101).
The result of our thinginess is our blindness to all reality that fails to identify itself as a thing, as a matter of fact.The higher goal of spiritual living is not to amass a wealth of information, but to face sacred momentsThe solution of mankind’s most vexing problem will not be found in renouncing technical civilization, but in attaining some degree of independence of it.All flesh is grass, all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field…We may not know whether our understanding is correct, or whether our sentiments are noble, but the air of the day surrounds us like spring which spreads over the land without our aid or notice.
This is a classic for a reason, or rather, for many reasons.
Rabbi Heschel's reflection on Sabbath-keeping is poetic, philosophical, and mystical.
The central contention of his argument is that the Jewish tradition poses an alternative to the religions, governments, philosophies of the world.
This alternative is the sanctification of time, rather than the sanctification of space.
Building out from the contention, Heschel has composed a beautifully-written defense of the practice of Sabbath, why God commands it, why it is good for the soul, and ultimately why it is good for the earth and humanity.
3.5 starsIn many ways this is a wonderful book. However, after the first couple chapters, the poetic language starts to get a bit much. And while there are interesting thoughts in each chapter, all the way through to the end of the Epilogue, it gets quite repetitive at times. Especially considering that the text itself (setting aside the footnotes) is a mere 101 pages.Worth a read, but perhaps in very small (no more than a chapter) bits, and spread apart over time.
This was selected by my Jewish philosophy book club, and on the whole our impression was favorable.
However, we thought that it was a bit scattered: it couldn't quite decide whether it was a philosophy, inspiration, kabbalah, legalisms, or what have you.
One of us described it as "a cute book."Heschel's great insight which drives the book is that instead of sanctifying space, Judaism primarily sanctifies time - and the sabbath is the most obvious and clear example of that.
This was probably one of the most inspiring books I've read.
A short book, it is full of rich, deep truths and insights.
Heschel talks at length about time and space, and leads the reader into some philosophical worlds which are exciting and new.
The meaning of the Sabbath- rest, holiness, sanctuary and peace- is explored and delved into here, like no other book I've read on the subject.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who longs for rest, for a meaningful Sabbath, for a break from the busyness, corruption and weariness of the world, especially during this election season!
Breathtaking. A love story about Shabbat, written in the most amazingly respectful and reverent language that easily communicates the hallowed feeling of the day, and why you might want to keep Shabbat, too.
Brilliant. If I could give it more than five stars, I would.
The way the Sabbath was presented is a new experience for me, but helped me to understand and appreciate it more.
It was a beautiful experience.The concept of time being eternal, but not understandable to the human mind and always grasping for that of space was a notion that wasn't hard to embrace even if it was profound.
Reading about other religions- this book is no exception- helps me appreciate my faith all the more and be in awe of the Lord for the diversity and creativity in creation.
I've had a holy envy of the Jewish Sabbath ever since being at the Western Wall on a Friday evening in Jerusalem.
The joy and celebration, especially the dancing, with which the Jewish people there greeted the coming of the Sabbath was something I'd never before experienced, let alone associated with religious observance.
The only downside of this read for me was the deepened sense that without a similar history of cultural/theological depth and richness, Sabbath observance in other religious denominations are not likely to attain the sense of holiness and joy as the Jewish shabbat.
I had been meaning to read this ever since I heard The Distraction Addiction's author, Alex Pang, on the (now sadly defunct) Buddhist Geeks podcast, talking about a really good book about the Sabbath, written by Rabbi Abraham Heschel.
Inspired by Pang's book, I've been experimenting with taking 'digital sabbaths' for the past year or so: it usually means a full day of no screens (including the Kindle!).
Rabbi Heschel argues about the Sabbath being a "palace of time": we should build cathedrals to eternity by pausing regularly in the whirling stream of onward time.
This had been on my list for ages, and I finally read it as part of a reading challenge, to fulfill the category, "one of the first ten books you put on your to-read shelf." A quick read, and if you've read anything more contemporary on the topic of Sabbath, this will feel very familiar. While there are no surprises here, it's a worthwhile read -- poetic, thoughtful, beautiful.
It was written by a Jewish scholar, so is specifically related to the Sabbath as celebrated by Jewish people.
So, although we work in the structural world for six days of the week, we can escape to the temporal when we celebrate the Sabbath.
So the Sabbath becomes a day of re-creation, a day of holiness ("...and on the seventh day, God rested...and called it holy"), and also a day, because we are living it in time and in holiness, where we deepen our relationship to and celebrate our relationship with our Creator.
In a way, it reminds me of my experience in reading Rumi: beautiful, transformative sentences, but the whole is so unstructured that it's impossible to point to any full poem (or here, a full chapter) as enjoyable, profound, or working well.Heschel begins with an interesting premise, that humans spend their energy trying to control space, the physical world, while the Sabbath offers us a chance to step outside that paradigm of space and relish time instead, use time as a way to let go and connect to the unknowable.
While I’m not a super religious Jew, this book made me appreciate Shabbat a hell of a lot more. Gonna go into it with a little more meditation in the future.
Overall, this was a wonderful book, and I must thank Rabbi for recommending it to me.
R. Heschel makes this book, and the idea of Shabbat, accessible for those of all faiths (or even none).
Mankind needs sacred time as well.
I love the idea of 6-winged angels, and the ideas of paradise, spirit as our mates, and time to re-ensoul ourselves through contemplation.I had a real Wow moment on page 89 at his comment that "Nothing is as hard to surpress as the will to be a slave to one's own pettiness...
This is one of those deep epistemological books that will help critique modernity's pallid, anemic view of religion and holiness (an easy read, so don’t let that bit of high-mindedness dissuade you).
Heschel describes the Sabbath as what I believe Christians would call the "sacramental" presence of eternity.
This "hallowed time," so central to Judaism, is contrasted with every other ancient religion and most modern ones, which are heavily concerned with hallowing space and/or objects.
Rabbi Heschel is clearly one of the great spiritual thinkers of the 20th century.
One nice thing about religion is that practicing it makes you very aware of the cyclical nature of time. You get attuned to the seasons. There are celebrations of renewal in spring, and festivals of light during the darkest days of winter.Judaism especially is all about the sanctification of time. It’s been argued that Jews were without a nation for so long that they became “at home only in time.” What is the Sabbath if not an abstract cathedral erected each Saturday?Heschel wrote the poetical book on this subject.
I'd read this book many years ago, right when I decided that I MIGHT be interested in keeping Shabbos. Picking it up at the library, I wondered how well it would hold up now that I'm Orthodox and have been keeping Shabbos strictly for 18 years. It's a revelation. Not only does it really hold water for someone who is Orthodox - Rabbi Heschel was Conservative - but his writing is so poetic, I was in raptures. Just a lovely book.
Abraham Heschel who was Professor of Ethics and Mysticism at the Jewish Theological Seminary, wrote this, his most famous work on how the Shabbat appears not in space, but rather in time. That is to say that we experience holiness in time and the eternity that imbues it and not in material things or places. And the Shabbat is Judaism's greatest "temple." This slim volume is a spiritual rendering of the Shabbat's significance. A must for those who seek to understand Judaism and it's holy days.
A dear friend and mentor reccommended this book to me quite a while ago, and I've only now finished it. It's beautiful and thought provoking and quite often challenging all at the same time. A few gems: "Time to us is sarcasm, a slick treacherous monster with a jaw like a furnace incinerating every moment of our lives." "Eternity utters a day."
This is a beautiful and profound book. It is too bad that most people will miss it.
A brilliant work, both for those with broad familiarity with Judaism and for one seeking something of the depth and spirituality of the tradition beyond the introductory.
I thought it was interesting that the author mentions the importance we place on holy places, but he points out that the first thing that God made holy was the seventh day, the Sabbath, a particular time.
How extremely significant is the fact that it is applied to time: “And God blessed the seventh day and made it holy.” There is no reference in the record of creation to any object in space that would be endowed with the quality of holiness (p.
"Eternity utters a day." A beautifully lyrical meditation on the day of rest by mid-century Jewish philosopher and mystic Abraham Joshua Heschel.One of the key philosophical aspects of the work is the sacredness of time over space, the Sabbath is put forward as an architecture of time.
The Sabbath arrives in the world, scattering a song in the silence of the night: eternity utters a day.""the Sabbath and eternity are one - or of the same essence""when the Sabbath is entering the world, man is touched by a moment of actual redemption; as if for a moment the spirit of the Messiah moved over the face of the earth.""God called the world into being, and that call goes on.
