https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16248311-the-perfume-collector
Add to the characters a unique and quirky story involving the smells of our lives and the life of a perfumer, and you have the recipe for an amazing book.I especially love books where I can learn a little while reading.
Maybe this book was particularly interesting because I am living in the Middle East and I see oud shops and perfumers all over the place.
I will think twice the next time I smell something particularly unpleasant or odd because of this book.Except this: SPOILER At the end, I wanted more!!!!!
Eva's story was interesting; Grace's story left me yawning.But the worst part about this book was the absolutely horrible editing job. Someone at Harper Collins got paid a great deal of money to go drinking when he/she should have been proofreading. I have seen fewer grammatical and word usage errors in an advanced reader copy. It was distracting and infuriating.I am mentally composing my letter to Harper Collins in which I offer my services as a copy editor. They need me.
Grace Monroe receives an inheritance unexpectedly from someone named Eva living in France who she does not know.
Grace takes a trip to France to figure out who Eva is and work out certain personal issues in her marriage.
It's a short and easy read and has a interesting plot line.
A lot of it was pretty predictable and the plot is a little all over the place.
Not the next great american novel but it's a good read for when you just want to relax and not think too hard, when you need one of those feel good books where the protagonist figures it all out.
Set in both pre and post World War II, the story follows one woman's journey through a very eventful life, which ultimately affects another's by leaving her a small fortune plus a beautiful apartment in Paris.
It’s a story of love, loss, and mystery, but above all it takes us into the seductive world of perfumers.
These perfumes though are special, creating not just a beautiful odour, but also creating bespoke fragrances with specific memories.
It's a well told story that is saturated with this interconnecting perfume theme, and you can almost drown yourself in it's beauty, very enjoyable.
I am so glad I got the chance to read this as I really enjoyed the experience.I love the old fashioned storytelling and the intrigue and suspense created by the author and while I had guessed the outcome of the story quite early on it never took from the enjoyment of the novel.
The characters are very well written, interesting and believable.I loved the ending of the story and congratulate the author for giving the reader a chance to use their imagination.A great old fashioned story and a very easy and enjoyable read.
Set in the post-WWII, Kathleen Tessaro's novel The Perfume Collector is a contemplative tale of one woman's journey to make amends and another woman's journey to find herself.Grace Munroe lives a rather dull life in the upper crust.
Thankfully, in The Perfume Collector, I found both Eva and Grace fascinating in entirely different ways.
Grace may live a life of quiet desperation, but Eva's desperation is anything but calm and reserved.Kathleen Tessaro's The Perfume Collector is a beautiful historical novel about one woman's awakening.
When Grace Monroe receives a letter from a Paris solicitor, she is perplexed to learn that a complete stranger has named her a recipient of a sizeable inheritance.
Motivated by curiosity and the need to distance herself from a troubled marriage and a pretentious social circle, Grace wants to know more about the mysterious Eva and sets off for Paris.
Relying on the help of the handsome French solicitor and an aging Russian aristocrat, Grace's quest to find the answers might shatter the life that she has built for herself.
Alternate chapters are set in the late 1920's and give readers the necessary details about Eva's back story.
What she discovers is a lost story that will forever impact her life.
She discovers flavorful food, perfect scenery, and how powerful a scent can be.
Kathleen Tessaro weaves a beautiful tale, masterfully taking the reader back and forth in alternating chapters.
While sometimes this tactic can be hard to follow, she executes it seamlessly, and the effect is unforgettable to the story.
I was lingering on at the end of every chapter, desperate to find out how the story would continue on...The ending, for me is where I felt I wanted more.
Grace flies from London to Paris to meet with a solicitor regarding the inheritance and tries to figure out who Eva was and why Eva would leave her not only an apartment but also stocks and a few other trinkets.
showing.The ending wraps up everything in a neat package, with the mystery solved and Grace (view spoiler)[leaving her husband for the hot French lawyer; remarkably, there is no discussion of a divorce or splitting of assets, just her saying, "I'm not coming with you." Huh, wish life were that easy!
Just ok for me. While I thought the storyline interesting, the connection between Eva and Grace was pretty predictable early on, and the descriptive detail of perfume making was a bit much sometimes. Despite all the typo's, still not a bad read.
4.5 starsImmediate thoughts: Well that was just extremely beautifully written.. going on my favorites list.. Right. Now.Actual review: I'm extraordinarily in love with The Perfume Collector. It is so romantically whimsical. I felt transported to another place and time - and it was about time - I read so many mediocre books in January that I was beginning to forget that feeling of getting lost in books. The world of Paris and perfume is romanticized so perfectly.. I mean... just look: Perfume sho
Now.Actual review: I'm extraordinarily in love with The Perfume Collector.
I felt transported to another place and time - and it was about time - I read so many mediocre books in January that I was beginning to forget that feeling of getting lost in books.
I loved every minute of reading this story.
It's full of so much passion, from all the characters involved.I can honestly say that I have never been interested in going to Paris, but this book actually makes me want to go.
The tone, the scene, the characterization, the plot...the basics, dang it.So it is with great solemnity that I say, SQUEEE I loved this book!A favorite author (Elizabeth Peters) once said (through her character writer and librarian Jacqueline Kirby) that she liked her books to "have a beginning, a middle, and an end." None of this slice-of-life stuff.
I agree with that statement wholeheartedly and one of my favorite things about this book is how well the ending of this story is done.
Each character has a clear voice and a firm viewpoint and I love the way the stories connect in the end.
Grace Munroe is a beginner socialite right on the introductory verge of the London mid-fifties upper class society scene when two unrelated revelations in one night send her fleeing to Paris, away from her husband and home.
With her London life apparently in tatters, Grace throws herself into understanding this mysterious benefactor and if there is any connection between them.
It also meant that although we came to understand Grace and Eva fairly well, every other character like Valmont, Madame Zed and Monsieur Tissot felt frustratingly one dimensional.
What a beautifully written story of two women who's lives are intertwined, one who knows how and one who has no idea of the others existence.
She ends up as a rather sad and lonely woman, but not before she gives her last gift to Grace.
Grace is struggling to find her own place and purpose in what looks to be a full and enviable life.
When Eva's gift arrives Grace is taken on a journey to find herself and discover what is important.
If you would like to be transported to a different time and place, this is the book that can carry you there.4.5 stars
I found the life of Madame Eva d'Orsey and the perfume industry to be most interesting. The 1920's are a favorite era of mine. I enjoyed the interchange between time periods and the characters and setting came to life through simple yet beautiful story telling. Figuring out about Grace early in the book took nothing away from the novel for me. Great book!I'm all about covers, loved this one!!!
I blasted through this book with its sensuality and intrigue set to the backdrop of 1930s and 1950s Paris. Don't be fooled by all of the glamour of the cover and the cover copy. There are a few hefty themes woven into the narrative as well. Loss of innocence, passion in its various forms, following one's heart. A fun read!
Autoarea a plecat de la o premisă bună, dar pe parcurs s-a pierdut și s-a grăbit să termine povestea cât mai repede.
Păcat că autoarea nu a profitat mai mult.
Eva e un personaj feminin complex, care merita mai mult spațiu în roman.
Pe mine m-au impresionat puterea și determinarea ei, faptul că a făcut tot ce a fost nevoie pentru a supraviețui.
Mi-a plăcut și ideea cu parfumurile, deși m-a dus cu gândul la celebrul roman "Parfumul" și inevitabil l-am comparat cu el ...Per ansamblu, a fost o lectură plăcută, care nu m-a impresionat însă.
An inheritance from a mysterious stranger...
An abandoned perfume shop on the Left Bank of Paris..
And three exquisite perfumes that hold a memory...
and a secretI love reading about people who are so down about their life then get a second chance to be happy.
It was a mystery with some forbidden romance.
It's something we all hoped for one time in our lives, a random inheritance comes in giving you the freedom to do and be anything.
A second chance given to a mystery woman who understands about independence.
Plus, the book is set in Paris, one of my favorite cities.
The premise of an English woman getting a surprise inheritance from a Parisian woman makes for an engaging read. Although the mystery of the Parisian woman's identity is rather predictable, that doesn't lessen the storytelling, and the reader is taken on a descriptive-rich journey of Paris during two different time periods. Some readers might not like the jumping back and forth in time, but I thought it was done fluently, and I enjoyed both story lines equally. But mostly I loved the descriptions of Paris. Such a beautiful city.
I like perfumes and historical fiction so I did enjoy this book. It wasn't something mysterious or with an ending you couldn't possibly guess. I almost knew the end from page 100, but it was a nice read. Strong female characters, lots of information about perfumes (visiting the Guerlain boutique, my favorite perfume brand), Paris, French sentences, they were all my cup of tea.
I had conflicting emotions--the need to find out what was going to happen to the characters and at the same time the dread of seeing the pages disappear, knowing that the book would come to an end.I've enjoyed all of Tessaro's previous work, especially "Elegance." Tessaro's books are fresh, on topics--an etiquette book, a perfumer, a professional flirt--not typically found in literature.
Before you know it you'll be working your way through her entire oeuvre.
The Perfume Collector is a piece of romantic/ detective fction; the action is set in the 1920s and 1950s, in France, New York, London and Northern England.
Together with the protagonists, Eva and Grace, we witness ("enjoy ourselves at" is not a good word choice here) a sophisticated London party, work in a hotel hosting the more ambitious representatives of the New York demi-monde, shop in Paris, create complex fragrances, and experience the occupation of Paris (although this part was, for me, undeservedly undeveloped).There are two parallel plots - one promising, dark and glamorous, with an interesting character, but the end of this part was unsatisfactory - Eva, in a slightly different incarnation, should have had a book all to herself.
When Grace receives a letter from a Parisian lawyer asking her to travel to Paris to discuss a bequest from a woman named Eva d’Orsey – a woman Grace has never heard of – she is curious and puzzled.
But there was a ghost of the intensely white bloom, undercut by a coolness, an almost metallic airiness, slicing through the depth and lushness that lingered still.”Grace and Eva’s stories are told in alternative chapters, Eva’s story taking us to New York in the late 1920’s and then back to Paris and Monte Carlo, it is the story of perfume, its creation and the obsession of its creators.
The Perfume Collector is beyond exquisite; exploring mystery, societal issues concerning women of two different period in time, and of course, the beauty of romance and how various scents come in to play with intimacy among other things.
As oppose to the life of Grace, Eva's was no fairy-tale She experienced the good and the ugly, and the fact that she overcame so much was just impressive.
The book is in fact titled The Perfume Collector so, the author definitely lived up to my expectations of bringing scents to life.
Eva and Grace had so much depth and they both intrigued me.
4 paperwhites-scented, beautiful Paris stars.
The stories begins all of a sudden in New York, where Grace Munroe, a socialite in progress, receives a letter from Paris asking her to claim heirship for a certain Eva D’orsey.
Despite her pitfalls, I quite happened to like Eva. She was a commanding woman, and every time her name transpired amongst the populace, it signified a kind of power that is as rare as anything heard of.
The way they represent not only a scent, but a different world.
And I loved Madame Zed’s theory : “A perfume must tell a story.”The start was kind of unappealing and it lacked the ideal lustre.
An absolutely gorgeous, bitter sweet, sensuous, elegant, and inspiring story of two women and their lives.
A woman who loses her innocence and naivete at too young an age, and yet lives her life with passion and practicality.
While the story is ultimately about Grace, it is Eva that I resonated with and related too.
Eva is a flawed heroine.
She's taken advantage of an manipulated as a young girl.
She falls in with opportunists though she tries very hard to see her child.
But it was Eva that really inspired me here.
It is Eva who inspires me to choose to live a different life.
In so doing, we are transported back to the late 1920s and early 1930s and journey alongside the colorful and complex characters of Eva, Andre Valmont and Madame Zed. We are drawn into the intense and sensuous art of creating perfumes - “You see, nothing is more immediate, more complete than the sense of smell.
It’s poetry, in its most immediate form.” The story unfolds along dual paths - Eva's life journey and Grace's own self-discovery and personal growth into a confident young woman who finally comes into her own.
How I view perfumes, scents and smells will never be the same again...
I do not wear perfume but I do appreciate the power of scent.
Maybe this is why I do not use perfume, that is, because I am so sensitive to scents specially in other people.
Anyway, this story is about an English woman in a marriage that is, let's say, in a bad place.
She finds out she has inherited a house in Paris from a person she never heard of.
Well, I personally can not think of better gift life can give you then an inheritance you weren't expecting.
I enjoyed reading this very good story with interesting characters, set in the very seductive city of Paris.
Loved it.
https://dorinadanila.com/2016/02/04/c...
