https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72155.The_Collected_Poems_Vol_1
Collecting the poetry that William Carlos Williams wrote during the first half of his literary career, Vol. I also contains the best work of the poet-physician. WCW's influences were many, but at his best, he wrote candid verse about both ordinary and profound experiences, in a way that often recalls that of the plain-style poets of the early English Renaissance.
I don't see in his work that he ever really separated art from the writing.Reading his collection, which covers 1909 until 1939 - it is clear that Williams was in a growing phase.
Considering that I am not the type of person who enjoys "collections," I was actually surprised at how much I drew from this book and relished in reading it.
It never once felt like an overwhelming amount of one person's work.What please me most was that Williams had shown me how to break my own rules.
Reading his poems, I found myself writing on the pages of the book - circling words and making notes in the margins.
1914: The Wanderer; Pastorals and Self-portraits1915: The Shadows1916: Stillness; Drink; A Love Song; Naked
This poem was a note WCW left for his wife on his refrigerator:This is just to sayI have eatenthe plumsthat were inthe iceboxand whichyou were probablysavingfor breakfastForgive methey were deliciousso sweetand so cold
Williams was not just an Imagist poet, writing about how much depends on that red wheelbarrow, not just a free verse confessional poet of the late books, inspiration to Robert Lowell, the one who allowed him and Snodgrass and Plath and Sexton to "break through back into life." Williams was a radically experimental, avant-garde poet who explicitly modeled his poetic practice on modernist industrial design, on Duchamp's readymade esthetics, on Cubist simultaneity and fractured depth and ground, on Transcendentalist notions of "notching the present moment on your stick," to misquote Thoreau, of basically "being here now" in the moment of the reading experience, experiencing reading as an almost religious act.
Essential collection of a great American poet***** A Five Star Poetry Book: Recommended for All ReadersW. C. Williams's poems are about as important to modern American poetry as the Rocky Mountains are to the American contintent: you can't get around them. As the reviews here indicate, he's still not to everyone's taste, but his influence is enormous, largely defining great areas of subsequent American verse (most of which however in my opinion isn't nearly as good as Williams himself.) If you are at all seriously interested in modern American poetry, you should have this collection in your library.
Now look at me!”This particular collection spans the early part of his life, up to the outbreak of the Second World War. In this period, the author released eleven collections of poetry, and his style evolved over time – it’s interesting to watch it develop through the pages of the book, and there’s always his second book of collected poems to look forward to reading afterwards.Really, one of the only problems for me is that there are often longer passages of prose that separate the poems, and I’m a big fan of simplicity – Williams was great at describing simple ideas and creating strong mental imagery in a small number of words, and so it feels like a shame to see him expand upon this.
But Williams uses his idea of great poetry (my term) as a way to justify why his particular style of free verse is more “authentic” or “real” or “honest” than those writing in other formats – not only metrical poets but writers of prose.
(Yes, Hamlet says that, but he’s a fictional character.) Most poets of any age would say a poem is complex work in which the poet and the listener/reader interact.Yes, there’s lots and lots of bad poetry out there.
Yet he associates his idea of an “imaginative” understanding of the world with his writing of non-metrical poetry.
I had very high hopes for this.
I've admired Williams based on things I'd learned about him as a person, and have appreciated some of his poems, but I just couldn't make my way through this collection.
Somewhat problematic is that it starts with his earliest least developed poetry, which is clearly not his best, but as it went on I found myself liking his poetry less and less.EDITED TO ADD: I've been reminded of some of his later poetry, and I think the problem is that I like Williams a lot, but that I prefer his later work, and that even still I prefer less comprehensive collections.
Constant source of new words
Reading a book such as this is meant to be a bit of a journey, but this particular journey was paradoxical due to the extremely varied quality of Williams' early work.
When he is good, Williams is among my favorite poets of all time; when he is not so good, Williams is shockingly bland and even trivial.
However, Williams is known to have said that anything can be made into a poem, and at times, too many of the poems stretch this into bored musings.
If you don't know WCW, you should. His command of image and economy of syllable are essential to any student of literature. And if you're one of those readers who thinks poetry should rhyme, check out Williams' work and see why that antiquarian view is exactly that.
This is just to sayI have eatenthe plumsthat were inthe iceboxand whichyou were probablysavingfor breakfastForgive methey were deliciousso sweetand so cold
Articulately, W.C.W is now one of my favourite poets.
A flip through Vol. 2 of his collected poems shows that he didn't repeat it (with the possible exception of the book-length Paterson.Overall, I enjoyed the second half of this volume as much as the first half, perhaps more.
It's a repeated line in one of his Paterson poems (a concept he was exploring for a long time before blowing it into book length).
In context, it seems to be representing how the people of Paterson live rather than what poetry is supposed to be, though the poem does transition into his mind and him sitting at a writing desk.
William carlos williams is an excellent poet one of my favorite poem from him is Danse Russe  In Danse Russe, William Carlos Williams is taking a step out of the comfort zone.
No man would actually tell people, that when their kid and wife is sleeping, they dance naked in front of their mirror.
He say “...who shall say I am not the happy genius of my household?” I believe when he is saying genius he is actually saying am I not the head of the household, because I am relieving my famine side.
All man has their famine side, the sensitive side.
Just as the nature of briars  is to tear flesh,  I have proceeded  through them.
Keep  the briars out,  they say.
You cannot live  and keep free of  briars.
- from "The Ivy Crown" WCW is a mixed bag: romantic, prolific, innovative, influential and often deeply moving, but he fails as often as he succeeds.
Many of his other works, however, should by rights overshadow TRW, and deserve much more attention than they seem to receive: The Descent, The Ivy Crown and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus should be required reading for all poets or readers of poetry.
I decided to read the collected poems of William Carlos Willams upon the recommendation of a poetry instructor I had taken a class from a few years back.
Or I would be reading a poem, satisfied that I understood, only to be thrown for a loop when coming to the end.
After reading volumes I and II of the William Carlos Williams collection, I have come to the conclusion that I do not care for his poetry and would rather spend my time doing something more meaningful.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
"First Praise""The Shadow""A Love Song" (1915)"Pastoral" (the little sparrows...)"Sympathetic Portrait of a Child""To Be Closely Written on a Small Piece of Paper...""The Thinker" (My wife's new pink slippers...)"Spring and All: V""The Source""Birds and Flowers III""The Wind Increases""Poem" (as the cat / climbed over...)"To" (A child (a boy) bouncing...)"This is Just to Say""The Red Wheelbarrow""The Rose""The Girl" (with big breasts / under a blue sweater)"The Term" (a rumpled sheet / of brown paper...)"Between Walls"
William Carlos Williams best stuff is in this early collection of his works. As a young man, he was simply more passionate about his thoughts and his writing. His typically writes free verse, but it is some of the best free verse of the 20th century. He, in my mind, is that writer who can dazzle and mesmerize with his light and playful descriptions as well as hit his reader in the head with a theological baseball bat.
"the thing [the reader:] never knows... is what s/he is at the exact moment that s/he is. And this moment is the only thing in which I am at all interested.I love my fellow creature. Jesus, how I love him: endways, sideways, frontways, and all the other ways — but s/he doesn't exist! all art has been especially designed to keep up the barrier between sense and the vaporous fringe which distracts the attention from its AGONIZED APPROACHES TO THE MOMENT."
I am a fan of William Carlos Williams and this book will not disappoint. #PoetKarenjeanMatskoHood loves poems! Enjoy
Basically I read this on the Point Pleasant beachin summer of 1985. My friend Rich Markert and I renteda house off the Point Pleasant Beach, NJ canal. I ride my bike or car tothe main beach & read it for a month on vacation.Great simple American poems. I tell everyone at the library toread this one. Here's WCW!!!at his best.
I suspect that I will prefer Williams' later poems, and should find a copy of Vol. 2. It is interesting to chart his development through this volume, from rigidly following poetic convention to apparently trying a bit too hard to break it at every turn. Somewhere late in this volume, he begins to rein it in, and the poems he produced in the '30s are by far my favorites in this collection.
Frankly, I'm still traumatized by having had to write a 25-page essay on "This is just to say" in a Master's literature class. Pretty much ruined any enjoyment of Williams poetry that I had.That being said, Williams is a poet with a different twist on things. While seemingly simplistic, the underlying possibilities are profound. They won't always be easy, but they are certainly worthwhile.
Probably not fair to give this only 3 stars. I still have this book and the poems that I can actually follow I really like but the later ones (these are arranged chronologically)I find really hard to understand.
Glad WCW worked through a lot of his early stuff in Vol. 1 to get to the good stuff in Vol. 2. Definitely the work of a tentative writer afraid to defy poetic conventions (or, definitely the work of a novice writer working his way through, and out of, poetic conventions).
Fantastic! The poems are top notch, of course, but what delighted me most about both volumes of this collection were the extensive notes at the back. They led me to several additional resources about Williams that I might not have found.
Both volumes are amazing...
Beautiful poetry!
