https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46915.The_Desert_Of_Wheat
TBD
A group of wheat farmers are facing drought and a nasty workers union called the IWW.
There are beautiful descriptions of the sound a wheat field makes when the wind blows through it.
Some said the IWW was funded by the Germans, to gain an advantage by intimidation and burning fields if you did not join their union.
I got tired of the characters feelings about love and war.
When one of the wheat farmers, Kurt Dorn went off to war, the story turns into a ramble on war and what a soldier feels.
I must fulfill my Jacobs' genes and read Zane Grey!
IWWA good takeoff love growing wheat and living with day to day labor. Learning for better growth and being human.that faith helps
Best book ever. I like anything by Zane. This book makes me very nostalgic.
Tho in pocket book form, this is an old book.
Can you imagine a wheat combine being pulled by 32 horses ?
That must have been an awesome sight.
It's a great story of a young man growing up on a large wheat farm in the northwest, near Oregon; fighting roughneck union-types in an effort to save his crop, only to lose it anyway; his time fighting in the trenches in Europe and his return to pick up his life again.
Mr. Grey does pages of just description in his books and I must admit to skipping quite a bit of it.
Nevertheless, he tells a great story.
Have you ever wondered what it would be like to be a German in America and Canada during World War 1? If you have then The Desert Of Wheat is a good book to read. It is about a young man, Kurt Dorn, and his experiences in his fight for his land, wheat, family, and country. The book takes place in the Columbia basin in northwestern United States and British Columbia, Canada. Kurt's father is a true German and won't realize that the I.W.W. is against them and not with them. The I.W.W. is a group
Kurt's wheat is really good and if they can harvest it without the I.W.W. burning it, he will be able to pay off his debts.
Since he doesn't have anything he goes to Anderson to pay off his debts by giving him his farm.
When Kurt decided to go to war Lenore and Anderson supported him but didn't want him to go.
To see if she marries him and if he makes it back from the war to manage Anderson's farm you will have to read this good book by Zane Grey.
My favorite anti-German quote was: "Only death changes the state of a real German, physical, moral, and spiritual." Good thing my German blood has been diluted with Norwegian and Welsh blood.I felt like this book (published 1918) went hand-in-hand with a few contemporary books of the time (that I have read): The 39 Steps (1915, John Buchan) and The Green Rust (1919, Edgar Wallace).
I also felt like this book might have had an influence in Edward Abbey's Monkey Wrench Gang (1975), at least the IWW had an influence in both of these books.
Along the way, he falls in love with the daughter of a rich farmer, and then has to protect her and himself from a worldwide labor organization that is reaking havoc all over the country to cause problems with the war effort.I am so glad that this wasn't the first Zane Grey book I ever read, as it was not that great.
And although I understood that he probably had some issues with them because of the war, it was taken completely to the extreme.
I sort of forced my way through this one.
This is one of the best books I have read in a while.
This book details the struggle of a young wheat farmer at the beginning on WWI.
He is of German heritage and struggles with that as well as Labor Unions and the love he feels for the rich farmer's daughter.
The author does a great job of detailing the surrounding and the feelings of both the young farmer and the rich farmer's daughter.
This is very well written and a book I will probably read again which I don't do much unless I am really engaged with the characters.
A Zane Grey Western/Wheat/German Spies/World War IZG has penned an almost modern western about the wheat fields of the Central Plains of North America. World War I had just been declared and spies are attempting to ruin the wheat fields by starting unions that will not harvest the crops on time. This period 1920's is the beginning of the Dust Bowl era. This is an excellent read for the genre.....DEHS
good camping reading.... read it while in eastern Washington which gave me some perspective as far as climate, etc. was concerned. Interesting take on the labor unrest caused by the IWW prior to WWI.
A good, nostalgic read.I enjoyed the glimpse into the mindset and motivations of the people of that time. The history of America's wheat farming and it's connection to the war effort during WWI is a great parallel for telling the story. Inspiring and patriotic!
I felt like this book fit well with the Mary Roberts Rinehart books I'd read in the week or two earlier. It is a different perspective on the war and the war time issues. This focuses on the western state experiences instead of the east coast.
The story is very dated.
This work of Zane Grey's is even better than usual.
I enjoyed this book. It was very moving and it helped me understand the mindset of the generation before and after World War I.
My grandfather was a machine gunner in this fight.
This is a better book than most people realize. Give it a chance and you will love it. Mark Reps, author, ZEB Hanks:small Town Sheriff; Big Time Trouble series
An interesting, if very melodramatic, take on World War I. And a lot of discussion of wheat. So much wheat. Obviously written for folks with a huge love of wheat.
Very much enjoyed this book from a later time than most of Zane Grey's work.
