https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161557.The_Blood_of_Others
While the total crush you love it love it immerses s. Simone de Beauvoir c is the Woman with a capital F, the writer par excellence. Every word of every situation the word is weighted studied with a purpose.
نویسنده «متعهد» ما خود را «ملزم» میبیند که هر چه زودتر با نگارش این اثر «مسئولیت» خود را، هر چند بالنسبه، در برابر آن وقایع ادا کند همه ما مسئول همه چیز و همه کس هستیم همه اینها شاید به کسانی که خون دیگران را نخوانده اند اینگونه القا کند که من درباره اثری میان مایه یا کوششی (بجای جوششی) از نویسنده ای بزرگ حرف میزنم که چندان من را جذب نکرده است.
De Beauvoir is considerably less coy than they were, in their novels, about making her fiction primarily a way of illustrating existentialist philosophy.For example, this scene, in which Hélène ponders with her lover the question “why do we live?”:“When I was small, I believed in God, and it was wonderful; at every moment of the day something was required of me; then it seemed to me that I must exist.
Crushed by all those things which existed in spite of me and from which I was separated only by my own anguish.
E esta obra demonstra esse período.
Uma época de incertezas, de busca pela liberdade e de encontro do próprio ser.Helene é a personagem que mais marca a ação.
Pensa em si antes dos outros.
Que interesse tem os outros quando somos infelizes?
Irá involver-se com Jean que se tornará no seu grande amor.A obra também narra o conflio entre a burguesia e a comunidade dos operários.
Também Helena torna-se mais solidária e por causa disso tem um fim trágico.
Esta é uma obra de génio!
Simone de Beauvoir é uma mulher que inspirou milhares de mulheres e o seu legado permanecerá vivo eternamente!
This is a book that cannot be read once only, every sentence needs its own book of analysisIt was just mind blowing!
As this is de Beauvoir, the lens through which the plot and its prose unfold is an existentialist one; the ethical dilemmas that arise at the crossroads of identity integrity and class revolution are repeatedly cast against the brute reality of singular subjectivity and the imminence and permanence of death.The novel seems unable to resolve the issue of whether sacrificing our life moment for our ideals and principles is worthwhile, but perhaps that's not the point.
Loosely based on Simone de Beauvoir's own experiences during the German invasion and occupation of France in World War II.
According to Wikipedia, Simone herself thought the book had somewhat thin characterisation and suffered from an overly didactic approach.
Partly wish I'd read this statement prior to reading this novel as I had a hard time connecting with the characters.The story also suffers from a too abrupt switch from the existentialist theme that both our actions and inactions affect other people and our personal responsibility for the consequences to a stronger focus on the relationship between Helene and Jean Blomart.
A thought provoking worthwhile read though with a particularly evocative section on living in Occupied France and the nascent french resistance.
Jean, benim hayatım seninkisinden çok farklı, istediğin gibi sevemem seni diyor ama Helene'yi yanından da ayıramıyor.
Ama bu ilişkilerinin sonu oluyor çünkü Jean bu yaptığının onu bir korkak olarak gösterdiğini, arkadaşları ölürken onun savaşmaktan kaçmış olduğunu düşünüyor.
Helene'nin Yahudi bir arkadaşı ondan yardım istiyor.
Jean önce tereddüt ediyor ama tekrar bir araya gelmişken kopamıyorlar birbirlerinden ve birlikte çalışmaya başlıyorlar.Ama olan oluyor.
Kitabın başında en sonunda Helene'nin ölmüş olduğunu anlıyoruz çünkü Jean'ın kendi ağzından anlatılmış hikaye ve dedikleri insanın içine oturan cinsten.
Bir şey olduğunu biliyorum, ama onu göremiyorum.
Helene dünyanın ortasında kollarımda tuttuğum ölü kadın oluyor.Dudaklarının köşelerinde bir titreyiş beliriyor, gözleri görmüyor artık.
لقائي الروائي الأول مع سيمون دوبوفوار كان من خلال روايتها الثانية"دماء الآخرين".
كان قد سبق هذه الرواية إصدار روائي لها أيضًا هو "المدعوة ".
سيمون دوبوافر توقعت الحصول على جائزة الغونكور عن هذه الرواية، فتحضرت لها بكامل أناقتها وبتسريحة شعر مميزة كما كتبت في مذكراتها، لكن للأسف كانت النتيجة مخيبة.
ولعل سيمون دوبوفوار ساهمت في إبراز هذا الرابط من خلال الجمع بين أعمالها الأدبية وسيرتها الذاتية، لذلك أعطت مثالا صارخًا على عدم تمكن الروائي من الخروج من ذاته أمام أي عمل خيالي أدبي يكتبه.
قرأت هذه الرواية باللغة الفرنسية وهي غير مترجمة بعد للغة العربية.
"Nothing is happening."
Si le premier chapitre peut être déroutant, "Le Sang des Autres", de Simone de Beauvoir est un roman captivant.
Que dois-je faire pour exister ?Entre montée du facisme, guerre et occupation de la France, Simone de Beauvoir nous livre un roman bouleversant qui pose de grandes questions, à la fois politiques, sociales et d'un point de vue plus individuel : existentialistes.
Je suis sous le charme et vous le recommande bien volontiers, d'autant que ce roman propose des personnages féminins absolument captivant, telle Hélène, cette femme bouillonnante et vivante qui ne choisira jamais de laisser son destin au hasard ou aux autres !A lire.
I really wanted to enjoy de Beavoir's writing.
de Beavoir's lack of structure also annoyed the hell out of me.
Is it too much to ask that one use an *** or- heck, even get crazy- and insert a paragraph break when one is transitioning from scene to scene, or from one time period to another?
I forced myself to finish this book for the mere, stubborn notion that I would know the ending and would not have wasted my time over an unfinished story.
Ultimately a satisfying story although the disjointed narrative technique gets some getting used to.
An austere but ultimately satisfying novel as we follow the tormented lives of young left wing intellectuals exploring existential questions of "why am I here?
or "what is my purpose?" against the backdrop of fascist atrocities in Europe and the occupation in France.
Pacifists by nature we follow them as they mature and come to realise that to win freedom you must spill the blood of others.
Written during the German occupation there is an authenticity at the core of the story.
I want to read this book again. I felt like I was in wartime france with these characters. Excellent writing. Hard to put down.
"Somos todos responsáveis. Mas todos, quer dizer cada um. (...) bastam os meus olhos para que esta avenida exista. Basta a minha voz para que o mundo tenha uma voz. Quando ele se cala, a culpa também é minha.""Eu não criei o mundo. Mas recrio-o a cada instante com a minha presença. E tudo para mim se passa como se tudo o que lhe acontece a ele acontecesse através de mim."
Simone de Beauvoir digs so deep into the psychology of her characters that at times it feels indecent.
At times the characters act irrationally, even despicably at a few moments, in search of an end which is not always noble.
Books far too often focus on the travesty without addressing the actual psychological state of the country at the time, or understanding the role of communist thought in resisting fascism.
This book offers an extreme level of insight into what all of it actually meant for France, aside from all the other stunning aspects of this book, it's historical insight alone is enough to convince me that this book should be required reading for anyone attempting to understand the tensions in Europe of WWII.
I read it many many times.
I enjoyed re-reading it last year, but it was very different than I remembered it.
The ideas behind the plot were interesting, but the main character is almost paralyzed by his fear of interfering with someone else's life and it wasn't believable.
The idea of whose blood do you spill and whose do you save is an interesting and even powerful concept, and I found it thought-provoking in terms of war (it's placed in Paris before and during WWII), but in terms of relationships, it was crazy.
What a whirlwind. Yes, I read this in 8 hours or less: desperate end of semester times call for desperate measures. Did I enjoy it? Not until the last quarter of the book, so a more accurate review would be 2.5 stars. The themes are extremely important and if there had been more of a focus on the war and the Resistance, it would have been fascinating. However, the characters were odious and they made the storytelling miserable. Fin.
At the beginning I thought I was not going to fancy the plot so much, it seemed just chitty chat about the complications of entangled love lives but as it moves further you understand the context all of this was written on (WWII, the occupation of France by the nazis and the revolutionary communism) and it makes it all so freaking interesting.It's amazing to see how Helene's character grows and grows throughout the novel and how she starts to recognize that her life can be of such value to help a cause.
and I loved the tragedy of it all.
I did not really like the ending, but I do like the characters. The story is about 2 lonely and shy people, who find each other because of a terrible crime. The author keeps them true to character.
I'm reading The Beav.
Like the Mandarins, well worth reading, though the existentialist project is more deliberate.
Overall, though, I found it a wonderful read; and what I love most of all is that at the end not only do the estranged heroine and hero at last discover each other emtionally, but all the main characters realize their own worth through involvement in a cause greater than themselves – the French Resistance.This novel is of course, an exploration of the issues of personal responsibility and the consequences of individual action and inaction in the context of the build up to World War II, the Nazi invasion, and the activities of the French Resistance.These themes are depicted through the main characters, and in particular the relationship of Helene Bertrand and Jean Blomart (I apologise for leaving out the French symbols – I still haven’t worked out how to do it on wordpress).Jean is a man who seems emotionally frozen, and who finds any sort of action a cause of tortured self doubt.
"But what matters for us is the time in which we live"ーThe Blood of Others ( Le Sang des autres), Simone de Beauvoir.I really enjoyed this book!
A plot twisted love story in war time (German-occupied France) with existentialism and philosophy on love and life at the background.
Although the writing style was quite challenging, telling story in two different perspectives, but it really rewarded at the end and I really appreciate de Beauvoir's creative composition, I get to exercise my brain muscle for the time shifting narration.
This book surprised me in so many ways especially "love", I guess cuz I don't read love story as much.
exquisite example of existentialism through a novel, I love the themes of responsibility and self vs. other and what it means to be in relation to anOther. Though it takes place during pre-WWII, this novel started paralleling my life in a way that only the most magical books can do. Love Helene as a character.
A wonderful account of a group of self involved, drifting people finding themselves through giving themselves up to a cause bigger than themselves in the French Resistance. Even in this translation - which to be honest, left something to be desired - I found it as deeply moving on the second reading as I did the first.
While it was hard to follow due to the jumps on consciousness and time, it was a moving love story with an interesting philosophical discussion on sacrificing the blood of others for the greater good.
The blood of Others is just not written very well. I'm not going to really make much of a case for the beef of the book, because the writing was so scatterbrained and disorienting that I don't think it really serves a purpose to do so.
What a great book! Better than 'All the Light We Cannot See,' better even than 'Suite Francais.'
Fantastique! Il m'a fait pleurer, et si la narration n'avait pas changé autant, je l'aurait donné 5 étoiles.
