https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27272506-the-glittering-court
A fantasy for those who thought The Selection wasn't long enough. “Winifred, the first girl, would look so lovely in the diamond colouring. Ruby’s the next most precious stone, and that obviously wouldn’t suit you with your hair. So third, as a sapphire, seemed like-““Sapphire?” interrupted Tamsin. “Sapphire? Everyone knows green is my best color. Isn’t an emerald rarer than a sapphire?" Who fucking cares? Because I surely don't.I'll start with credit where it's due - the beginning of this book
Adelaide's narrative is quite amusing, especially in the novel's early stages, and her attempts to impersonate a poor maid make for some comical moments.This doesn't last for long.It quickly becomes apparent that Mead has no intention of moving past descriptions of dresses, dances and romance.
I keep coming back to her because I loved the early Mead - such immoral entertainment!
It’s been a long time since she’s written something I've enjoyed.The Glittering Court is about a high society girl who steals her maid's identity and becomes Adelaide, one of the chosen girls being brought to the New World, Adoria.
I should have known from the blurb that this wasn't going to work for me. The Selection meets Reign in this dazzling trilogy of interwoven novels about three girls on a quest for freedom and true love. Really. This is my own fault. What did I think this book was going to be? I couldn't bear the aching stupidity of The Selection. Reign, the TV show, was abominably dumb, and more a parade of pretty prom dresses than anything resembling historical fact. And for once, the book was true to the blurb,
The Selection meets Reign in this dazzling trilogy of interwoven novels about three girls on a quest for freedom and true love.
Reign, the TV show, was abominably dumb, and more a parade of pretty prom dresses than anything resembling historical fact.
Richelle Mead was one of my favorite authors, but her previous few books have done nothing for me (and let's not even mention the bullshittery ending of the Bloodlines series) and I have regretfully knocked her off my favorite author list.This book is about a noblewoman who runs away to escape an arranged marriage - only she's kind of dumb, because in running away to escape that marriage, she ends up in a place where the "men outnumber women three to one." These men are fucking desperate for pretty wives that they're willing to take servant girls and My Fair Lady them into perfection.
I had time to get over my initial crankiness at finding a fictional version of England, France, and colonial America masquerading under different names and a mail order bride scheme, when I was expecting a story about things strange and fantastical.Nnnngh.
(hide spoiler)] There is tangible chemistry between Adelaide and Cedric, who made me swoon despite his religious fervor (which is HUGE if you know how I feel about structured religion in fantasy--UGH).The world-building was absolutely incredible.
THE GLITTERING COURT by Richelle Mead is the first installment of her new YA (half-)fantasy series, and it's the first book of its type whose characters, world-building, and story fully compensated for the lack of magic.
The Glitter Court is about a high society lady who steals the identity of her maid and becomes Adelaide.
The Countess is bored with her life and decides after being told she’ll have an arranged marriage that she will take the place of her maid at the Glitter Court… so she can be taught how to be a proper lady and be more appealing to men… so they can bid on who they want to be their next trophy wife….
I was expecting a book that has a kickass protagonist set in a high fantasy world….
RECIPE:How to make Chocolate Chip cookies!(For real)  INSTRUCTIONS:  PREHEAT oven to 375° F.COMBINE flour, baking soda and salt in small bowl. Beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar and vanilla extract in large mixer bowl until creamy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in morsels and nuts. Drop by rounded tablespoon onto ungreased baking sheets. BAKE for 9 to 11 minutes or until golden brown. Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes;
PREHEAT oven to 375° F.COMBINE flour, baking soda and salt in small bowl.
PAN COOKIE VARIATION: Preheat oven to 350° F.
SLICE AND BAKE COOKIE VARIATION: PREPARE dough as above.
Refrigerate for 30 minutes.* Preheat oven to 375° F.
Cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices; place on ungreased baking sheets.
Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes; remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes; remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Makes about 5 dozen cookies.
Add 2 teaspoons water with flour and reduce both granulated sugar and brown sugar to 2/3 cup each.
This is probably one of the shortest reviews I’ve ever written but I think I really can’t say an awful lot about “The Glittering Court”.
I didn’t feel anything while I read this book and I’m really sorry to say it, but I’m kind of indifferent to all of the characters that were a part of this story.
*lol*It’s like you’re reading that someone is eating butter bread.
So yes, if you want to take the risk to read this book I won’t stop you.
Maybe you’ll like it, maybe it’s the perfect book for you and I’m just not a fan of butter bread.
*lol*P.S.: I have nothing against butter bread.
This story felt like 4 different books thrown into one with parts missing.
I adored the characters in this story, and they really shine in the first half.
There was no reason to make this a fantasy world.
Additionally, since the protagonist only has this book, her story felt a bit rushed.
But I will continue with the next book in the series because I do enjoy these characters and I want to know more about the side characters and how all of their stories fit together.
This would have made so much more sense if it was a historical fiction book because all Richelle Mead did was take places and customs from our world and give them new names.
The idea of having each book in this series follow a different girl sounds good, but it didn't work for me.
I really wanted to like this book but I just couldn't get through it and won't be continuing the series.*This book was sent to me by Penguin Random House in exchange for an honest review*

Usually when I pick up a book by her, I'll expect to settle into the journey and want to be drawn into it and the voice of the character perspective Mead takes on.This book had little to none of these things.A restricted young woman from a family of power and high privilege decides she wants more freedom in her life - base description of where this story begins.
Convenient, no?But Adelaide's character feels like she does so much only for Cedric's sake or just to try to prove she's not as pampered as people think she is.
Oh, look! Another book I want to read because everyone dislikes it.(Probably, let's be honest here.)
If you liked this book, you might want to look away right about now.So this book is about Adelaide/whatever her original name was, a highborn lady whose family is running out of funds.
So when Adelaide decides to give up a safe, prestigious, respectable life for a half-built shack in the middle of nowhere in the name of true love, I wanted to roll my eyes so hard they'd get stuck looking into my brain forever.
If Adelaide wants to die in her twenties of starvation or tuberculosis or any of the other hundred ways to die in a shack, then that's her choice, I guess.
But no complication will prove quite as daunting as the potent attraction simmering between Adelaide and Cedric. An attraction that, if acted on, would scandalize the Glittering Court and make them both outcasts in wild, vastly uncharted lands. . . .:DSCANDALIZE ME.
New Richelle Mead? I need this now!!!P.S. Anyone else think the cover model looks a bit like Zoey Deutch?
blog***The Glittering Court by Richelle MeadBook One of The Glittering Court seriesPublisher: RazorbillPublication Date: April 5, 2016Rating: 4 starsSource: Copy provided by First to ReadSummary (from Goodreads):A dazzling new fantasy series set in a mix of Elizabethan and frontier worlds that’s dripping with romance from Richelle Mead, #1 internationally bestselling author of Vampire Academy.Big and sweeping, spanning the refined palaces of Osfrid to the gold dust and untamed forests of Adoria, The Glittering Court tells the story of Adelaide, an Osfridian countess who poses as her servant to escape an arranged marriage and start a new life in Adoria, the New World.
But then Bloodlines became horrible, Gameboard of the Gods was a joke, and I gave Soundless a two star rating when it deserved a one star rating, but I didn't want to believe Richelle Mead, one of my favorite authors of all time, was writing nothing but one star books.I have outgrown Richelle Mead, and I don't think I will be reading any more YA stories from her, because my heart can't take giving her more chances and me having to write more negative reviews.First off, this book is not a fantasy and should not be marked as one.
Well, that was terribly boring.The basic plot is that a young countess poses as her maid Adelaide in order to avoid an arranged marriage.
Anyways, she falls in love with the son of the guy running the whole shindig and you will never ever guess who she ends up with.I'm not sure how this qualifies as fantasy.
It talked about dresses SO MUCH but the girl's language and mannerisms were way more modern.More complaints: the whole premise of her being stuck in any situation was absurd because she was still a countess and had people back home looking for her.
So, I've heard of the vampire academy series for a while and jeez, that's quite a few books to take care of, so hey, when this series came along, it was just.....JACKPOT.See, I thought this was gonna be a stupendous book.I mean, first of all, I thought that there would be glitter.GLITTER.So.....hehe, yah THERE WASN'T ANY.NO F*CKING GLITTERY COURT AT ALL -_-EXCEPT: A WHINY GIRL WHO DECIDED TO RUN AWAY FROM HER LIFE.See, I believe in freedom and all that.Rights?Freedom of speech?Anyone?So of course, hell yah, pack ur bags and go gurl!But once she reaches this academy thingy where she's supposed to be 'safe' and the story line says 'find her Prince Charming', THATS IT.......Uhh.......this fangirl ain't amused.See, ur telling me, that I read all that crap of her coming here and the rest of the story is her and this dude playing tug of war on their hearts??!Alright, shut up with the game already.WHAT ELSE, HMM??
It feels like Leonardo Decaprio never recieving a Oscar.Why must the wonderful things be taken from the talented people, PRAY TELL ME!God, Just, look at it.
She looks like the glittering court gave her an allergic reactionAnd JESUS.
I FEEL LIKE TAKING THIS TITLE TO COURT AND DEMANDING IT BE JAILED AND LOCKED AWAY AND NEVER USED AGAIN, BANISH IT FROM THE HUMAN EYE, CAUSE ITS A DISGRACE OF A TITLE, in my opinion, anyhow.So sue me, TAKE ME TO THE GLITTERING COURT AND SUE ME, but be warned if I even went near a court labelled 'glittering' I'd RAZZLEDAZZLE my self riht out of that dumb-sounding place.
2 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Genre: high-fantasy, YAStuff: historical hints, bride-marketFail: boring story and charactersPOV: 1st-person, femaleLove-Geometry: seemingQuote-Core: “We’re all in charge of our own lives—and we have to live with the consequences of the choices we make.” Buddy-DNF with Nastassja.I rarely
I mean, the high-fantasy world turns out being a lot like the real one, the romance is boring, the main characters are flat, and I can't find anything to hold on to and finish the book.We have a noble but poor lady, who has to become a wife of a not very pleasant boy her grandma nicely chose.
Trying to escape the arrange marriage, she goes to the Glittering Court (using her servant's name), a school for common girls those are eager to sail abroad and be sold to rich men of the New World.
[4.5 Stars]
Actual rating: 1.5 stars    DNF at about 53%  Welcome to a fancy brothel! Every kind of girl is available here for a good price. Have a pick.  Our MC is the Countess of Rothford. Her life is pretty hard: she has to marry an itching nasty cousin or stay moneyless heiress and loose her grand fancy house *gasp* what a terrible fate! How will our poor baby find a way out of this situation? Will she decide to stay poor but, at least, save her pride and title? Or will she marry her terrible cousin? N
Her life is pretty hard: she has to marry an itching nasty cousin or stay moneyless heiress and loose her grand fancy house *gasp* what a terrible fate!
Oh no, stop, I forgot to mention a working house for girls who refuse to play along with fancy brothel's rules (and something tells me she'll choose not to marry another itchy man).
For the love of god, I can't fathom why abandoning your responsibility and going to an unknown country with no means and utter dependence on other people's mercy is better than staying home and facing your problems?
The Glittering Court is quite an enjoyable read, with its rather intriguing premise and slow-building romance between Adelaide and Cedric.
Things started to get more interesting when Adelaide departed to Adoria after receiving ample etiquette trainings where she met with other potential and noteworthy suitors, or so she thought as things started to go downhill for her.
Also, the friendship that she eventually forged with Tamsin and Mira whom she later befriended in Adoria was heartening too.
Also, I was finally convinced of the romance between Adelaide and Cedric, which I was initially doubtful of, as they managed to overcome their obstacles together and forged a more solid and endearing relationship.
4.5 starsI loved the premise and hello gorgeous cover, so I was eager to start this book.
Once I got started, I tried to take my time because I wanted to savor it.
Love love love Adelaide.
She's sassy and fantastically outspoken for the time period.
Her BFFs Tamsin and Mira were just as delightful and I really enjoyed all of the scenes with the three of them.
The UST between him and Adelaide is so delicious.
And that's where my attention started to wane a bit.
The ending isn't cliffhangery at all, but there is definitely a set up for the next book.
So I filmed a spoiler-free video review for this book because I really felt the need to discuss my feelings out loud, and also not to type them up.But the short version is: this book was GOOD but there was too much useless plot.
This book follows a girl who wants to escape her royal life and ends up going to the Glittering Court which teaches "common" girls how to be royalty, and then they are sold on a different continent to men needing wives.
A lot of plots she added that she didn't know what to do with and ended abruptly.
Hmmm, kind of want to read, but also not sure if I want to get invested in another series by Richelle Mead because I'm always disappointed in how she ends them...
★★The Glittering Court is the first installment in Richelle Mead's series titled (surprise, surprise) The Glittering Court. At this point in my reviews, I would have listed the genres but I kinda have a problem. It is marketed as a fantasy but I find this severely misleading. The Glittering Court is historical fiction with conveniently made-up names for the countries and oceans. There is no fantasy in this book. As for historical fiction, it wasn't bad. I liked the first half very much actually.
The Glittering Court is historical fiction with conveniently made-up names for the countries and oceans.
There is no fantasy in this book.
I don't know what happened but The Glittering Court became less fun and more of a chore to read for me personally.
My initial four-star review plummeted to two and a half.
I added the half star because I genuinely enjoyed this book when I started it.
I wish my enjoyment had lasted but that's the way it goes sometimes.
If you are a fan of Richelle Mead in general, then try The Glittering Court.
There's no way to avoid that.
With strong characters, adorable romance, and many intertwined plot conflicts, this series definitely has a lot going for it.Wanting to escape a loveless pending marriage and a stifling lifestyle, Adelaide assumes her servant's identity to join the Glittering Court, a business and finishing school that takes low-class girls and transforms them into educated, proper women fit to marry wealthy men looking for wives in the new Osfridian colonies across the treacherous sea.
If you're into books with historical settings, great friendships, and a great lead main character, I think you'd like this book!
I wasn't sure what to expect going in, this book took all my expectations and kind of threw them out the window.
From a finishing school to gold panning, and yet I kinda loved it.
I suppose what I wasn't expecting was that each book is actually a standalone from a different character's perspective, and to be honest I'm not sure I want to read two more in the same timeline so I'll pass on the sequels...
It was a good book, I enjoyed it, yes the ending was a bit convenient, but who cares: I had fun.
Side bar: Doesn't the girl kind of look like Zoey Deutsch (who played Rose in Vampire Academy?)And then the name...
Like a room made of diamonds.
Sounds a little bit like The Lunar Chronicles, but without the multiple POVs. Or perhaps maybe more akin to Graceling?"The Glittering Court is designed to transform impoverished girls into upper class ladies capable of arranging powerful and wealthy marriages in the New World." Plus, there are buzzer words: *Elizabethan (dresses, balls...
excitement!)*Fantasy (no explanation needed)So basically Princess Diaries, Mean Girls, Clueless, She's All That...
but in a dazzling fantasy world?Sign me up!
