https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/391661.The_Men_with_the_Pink_Triangle
The injustice of those branded with the pink triangle is not only the treatment and torture they received simply for being attracted to the same sex, but the lack of acknowledgement their struggle received, if they happened to survive the camps: they were shunned by society for being homosexuals, many being arrested and imprisoned for the same 'crime' that had them committed to the concentration camps; if they escaped being sent to prison, they were hated by their neighbours and ostracised by society (Kohout's father committed suicide because of the treatment he received from his friends, colleagues and neighbours for having a gay son); they did not receive compensation like the other victims of the concentration camps, because they were criminals for loving the same sex, and criminals did not receive compensation.
Whether you are just a passing person who might wish to learn about what homosexuals suffered in concentration camps (and there were fewer comparatively and earlier in the Nazi regime directly), or someone who is looking for a wider view of all inmates who were interred or murdered, this memoir can provide views into life in the camps, especially for certain populations.
Sometimes you can only recount abstracts like that, because looking too directly into the memory will take you back, and you know, in your present life that you couldn't endure that.
If you are going to read Holocaust books, include this one as well.
“Muy poco se ha escrito sobre el hecho que junto con los millones de seres humanos que Hitler aniquiló cruelmente por motivos “raciales”, cientos de miles de personas fueron torturadas con sadismo hasta la muerte por el mero hecho de tener sentimientos homosexuales.
Muy pocos han dado a conocer hasta a hora que la locura de Hitler y sus acólitos no iba dirigida solamente contra los judíos, sino también contra nosotros los homosexuales, en ambos casos con el propósito de la “solución final”, al aniquilamiento absoluto de estos seres humamos”La verdad es que ha resultado muy interesante adentrarse en uno de los episodios menos conocidos de los campos de exterminio.
Przetłumaczona pierwszy raz na polski pozycja niemiecka z lat 70-tych. Trudne świadectwo podwójnego wykluczenia.
"Co to za świat i co to za ludzie, którzy decydują za dorosłego człowieka, kogo i jak wolno mu kochać? Czy to nie zahamowani seksualnie i obarczeni kompleksem niższości ustawodawcy zawsze najgłośniej krzyczą o „zdrowych odruchach narodu”?"Po prostu czytajcie.
Horrifying.
Simply horrifying is the best way to describe this book.
Told by one of the few known homosexual surviors of Nazi concentration camps, and one of the even fewer brave enough to tell his story, this book details Heger's six years in a concentration camp.
The abuse--physical, mental, and sexual--is unbelievable.
It's traumatic to simply read about his experience and the things that he witnessed.
Ugh. Nightmares are certain to result from this reading, but I maintain that it's a very important story to read.
Review to come. <3
Mam nieco mieszane uczucia co do tej książki.
Jest niewątpliwie ważnym świadectwem, a jeszcze ważniejsze jest to, że w końcu ukazała się w Polsce.
Wszystko niby opowiedziane jest dość szczegółowo, ale narracja jest nieco emocjonalnie oderwana od opisywanych wydarzeń.
Niewyobrażalne jest dla mnie to, co robiono osobom nieheteronormatywnym w obozach koncentracyjnych, ale jeszcze bardziej niewyobrażalne - i niewytłumaczalne!
- jest dla mnie zamiatanie tego wszystkiego pod przysłowiowy dywan.
Podobnie jak autorka posłowia w tej książce, mam nadzieję, że ta książka otworzy drogę innym publikacjom na temat tego, co przytrafiało się LGBTQ w najgorszych chwilach historii.
This book opened my eyes in so many ways. I'll be forever thankful to the girl that recommended it. I've read a lot of holocaust memoirs over the years, but none had ever so much as mentioned the atrocities committed against homosexuals. Like any book dealing with the holocaust, this book is a tough read, and the questions it asks have no easy answers, other than the world is sometimes very, very wrong.
Μία ακόμα μαρτυρία για τις θηριωδίες το ναζισμού. Ένα ακόμα "Εάν αυτό είναι ο άνθρωπος". Είναι ένα από τα λίγα ντοκουμέντα, αν σκεφτεί κανείς ότι ακόμα και μετά η ομοφυλοφιλία διωκόταν ή στην καλύτερη στιγματιζόταν όποιος το δήλωνε. Ευτυχώς υπήρξαν και αυτοί οι άνθρωποι που με το θάρρος τους και τη μαρτυρία τους μας άφησαν Ιστορία.
This is an account of one young gay man's experiences at the hands of the Nazis.
It is quite factual but if you read between the lines the horror jumps out at you.
There is an appalling account of the murder of one young gay man at the hands of 2 Nazi officers which will remain with me forever.
The account was written around 1970 - thank God that our generation lives in much more tolerant times.
May horrors like this never recur.I salute you Mr Heger/Kohout!
En viktig bok om en del av andra världskriget som jag inte hade en aning om. Tyvärr var den ändå ganska dålig, tråkigt skriven. Vill höra mer om känslor och tankar men får istället ett händelseförlopp, "då var det såhär och sen var det såhär och efter det hände det här", vilket gör att boken blir ganska ointressant. Att läsa för mig handlar mycket om att känna, och jag kände inte så särskilt mycket.
Está contada de forma objetiva, así que no nos atormentará el corazón...demasiado.Muy interesante, nos desvela cosas sobre los campos de concentración de las que apenas se ha hablado.Mi vídeo reseña:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uNpRL...
Tragic story to add into the mix when discussing WW2 and the Holocaust.
Unfortunately, while reparations have been made to the Jews and other groups for their suffering, the gay men who were imprisoned were still considered criminals by the laws of the time, even as late as the 1970s, and therefore not eligible for reparations.It is absolutely terrifying to read what Heger and the gay men he was imprisoned with endured.
To allow himself to reveal his feelings on these situations may have been too much, and I cannot blame him.This is not a book to be read by the squeamish, but it is important to remember that gay men suffered cruelly under the Nazi regime.
Czytałem wiele relacji, naprawdę wiele, ale bez przesady mogę powiedzieć, że żadna jeszcze chyba mną tak nie wstrząsnęła (a nawet jeśli nie ta najbardziej, to na pewno plasuje się wysoko)...Ale zaskoczeniem na plus było, że wtedy też byli rodzice, którzy po mimo wszystko stali za swoimi dziećmi murem. "Przez trzy lata udawało mi się ukrywać tajemnicę moich homoerotycznych uczuć przed matką, choć bardzo mi ciążył fakt, że z nikim nie mogę o tym porozmawiać. Aż w końcu pewnego dnia zwierzyłem się
Czytałem wiele relacji, naprawdę wiele, ale bez przesady mogę powiedzieć, że żadna jeszcze chyba mną tak nie wstrząsnęła (a nawet jeśli nie ta najbardziej, to na pewno plasuje się wysoko)...Ale zaskoczeniem na plus było, że wtedy też byli rodzice, którzy po mimo wszystko stali za swoimi dziećmi murem.
Było to dla mnie coś całkiem naturalnego, bo już poznałem jego talent do „organizowania” różnych rzeczy.Jeszcze tego samego wieczora dowiedziałem się od mojego przyjaciela, który wypytał o tę parę w obozowej kancelarii, że oboje zostali zabrani do aresztu prosto z loży hamburskiego teatru i natychmiast przewiezieni do naszego obozu.SS-Obersturmbannführer był bardzo zasłużonym i wielokrotnie odznaczanym oficerem frontowym Waffen-SS, miał nawet Krzyż Żelazny, choć wtedy go nie zauważyłem.

Takich książek się nie ocenia, za istnienie takich świadectw jest się po prostu wdzięcznym. Pozycja szczególnie ważna dla pokazania pełnego spektrum historii ofiar II Wojny Światowej. W książce jest wiele zdań o akceptacji, które zapadły mi w pamięć. Jest pozycją zaangażowaną. Autorzy są w pełni świadomi, że nie może być to tylko relacja, że potrzebne jest coś więcej - opis myśli, uczuć, potrzeb, bo tylko on może pobudzić empatię u czytelnika. Empatię, która bardzo była potrzebna ofiarom, które wstydziły się opowiedzieć swoją historię, bo ta historia ciągnęła się jeszcze długo po wojnie... a czasem mam wrażenie, że wciąż trwa :(
Tragic.
The first book is "The Pink Triangle: The Nazi war Against Homosexuals by Richard Plant"I gave that prior book 3 stars because although it was written well it was more of the facts and not personal account.
THIS book that I am reviewing now is "The Men with the Pink Triangle: The True Life-and-Death Story of Homosexuals in the Nazi Death Camps by Heinz Heger" (which I found out is his pen name) and is HIS personal account of his years as a gay man in a concentration camp.
A gay survivor of a concentration camp tells his story to Heinz Heger, but only under the pretenses that he remains anonymous.
Through this story we discover the life of a pink triangle (gay male) in the concentration camp.
We are drawn into this story in a profound way because we see the survival techniques that the man had to use to survive throughout his years in the camps.
You learn the chain of command and the inner workings in a way that many other books about the Holocaust simply do not do.
This kind of perspective is completely new for most, but it really shouldn't be.
Whenever fear surfaces as differentiating people by some quality they have, alarm bells should be ringing in the heads of each of us.
If you think they don't, you can just take your head from your ass for a moment, and reflect with this book in hand.By the way, double standard's a bitch.Homosexual behavior between two 'normal' men is considered an emergency outlet, while the same thing between two gay men, who both feel deeply for one another, is something 'filthy' and repulsive.

Many tactics I was unaware of are discussed in this book and I feel it would be beneficial for more people to know about the homosexuals who were murdered during the holocaust (in fact they were above Jews, Jehovah's witnesses, gypsies and political prisoners in the Nazi scheme).
On the basis of human nature I truly love the quote in this book by a beaten homosexual priest: " and yet man is good, he is a creature of god" and another prisoner's response: "not all men; there are also beasts in human form, whom the devil must have made".
“What car driver today, hurtling along the German motorways, knows that each block of granite has the blood of innocent men on it?
Men who did nothing wrong, but who were hounded to death in concentration camps solely for reason of their religion, their origin, their political views or their feeling for their own sex.
Each of the granite pillars that hold up the motorway bridges cost the lives of untold victims - a sea of blood and a mountain of human corpses.
Today people only too willing to throw a cloak of silence and forgetfulness over all of these things”
This was perhaps the most difficult read of my life, not because it wasn't interesting, but because it was so difficult to imagine the horror of it all. As a gay man, I can only think that it could have been me, a different region, a different time, and it could have been me.Heinz Heger tells the story in such a way that the reader gets tiny glimmers of light when the darkness is almost too much. There is very little in this book that is good or positive, but his determined spirit carries you through.Highly recommended.
I love this book. I like personal accounts of major events both tragic and triumphant. I would have liked to have had it been longer considering how few of these particular accounts exist involving the Holocaust. A must read regardless of the writing quality. Good or bad. As I don't think many know about what homosexuals went through during this or the true origin of the pink triangle. It is an easy read and a quick book to make your way through. Very to the point.
This is an essential, and well-written primary source for writing on the persecution of homosexuals in Nazi Germany. I'm currently researching this topic for an upcoming assignment, so if anyone has any recommendations, please let me know!
Πρωτοποριακή στην Ελλάδα αυτή η έκδοση αγγίζει μια άγνωστη πτυχή του Ολοκαυτώματος, όπου το ζήτημα των ομορφυλόφιλων στο Γ Ράιχ έχει αποσιωπηθεί!Αν θέλουμε λοιπόν να αντισταθούμε σε όσα καταπιεζουν τον άνθρωπο και συντρίβουν τα δικαίωματα του στην αυτοδιάθεση δε χρειάζονται εκδηλώσεις καρναβάλια, αλλά Παιδεία, αγάπη στον άνθρωπο και αναγνώσματα αφύπνισης όπως ΟΙ ΑΝΤΡΕΣ ΜΕ ΤΟ ΡΟΖ ΤΡΙΓΩΝΟ που η Εφημερίδα Των Συντακτών -προς τιμήν της έβγαλε από την αφάνεια 10 Ιουνίου του 2017- σε μια ιδιαίτερη έκδοση!Ευτυχως το βιβλίο αυτό κυκλοφορεί και μπρείτε να το βρείτε σε μεγάλα Βιβλιοπωλέια σαν την Πρωτοπορία και την Πολιτεία στην τιμή των περίπου 9 ευρώΑΝΑΚΑΛΥΨΤΕ ΚΙ ΑΛΛΑ 40 ΣΥΓΚΛΟΝΙΣΤΙΚΑ ΒΙΒΛΙΑ ΓΙΑ ΤΟ ΟΛΟΚΑΥΤΩΜΑ "ΣΤΟΝ ΑΣΤΕΡΙΣΜΟ ΤΟΥ ΒΙΒΛΙΟΥ" http://stonasterismotouvivliou.blogsp...
Kohout never actually read the finished version, and when he was told there were some factual errors (his age, among other things) he just waved it away.But yes: Kohout survived his time in the camp by becoming the (extremely secret) lover of several men with a slightly higher status.
It's heartbreaking, the things he does to survive, and it's a really important story to be told, especially in the current political climate.After the war it turned out that he (or any other homosexual man) would not be given any compensation for their time in the camp.
