https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54529.Falling_Leaves
I half liked this book.
I didn't like how Adeline made herself out to be this perfect little angel who gave to everyone and just kept getting shit on.
She was constantly a victim to everyone in her family, yet kept going back for more abuse.
I felt like she did a lot of complaining in the book, and was quite the martyr.
I do think it is amazing that she was able to become a doctor and build a successful practice.
I think she overcame many obsticles and I look up to her in that reguard.
I mean, she mentions it so many times in her book on the excuse that inheritance is her only way of knowing for sure that her parents approve of her but we don't see her youngest sister Susan, who was disowned for bravely walking out the door in rebellion against her (birth) mother's abuse, whining about exclusion from the inheritance.
By writing this book, she, again, defies her father who said: 家醜不可外揚 (Family ugliness should never be aired in public).Instead of thinking how brave she was, I get a feeling that she was a spoiled little girl.
Falling Leaves, The True Story of an Unwanted Chinese Daughter is a look at the culture, country, and family relationships that just didn't work for any of the children in this wealthy Chinese family, especially for one young girl, Adeline Yen Mah. She was born in 1937 and her mother died when she was born, and her new mother was Eurasian who brought her own children into the marriage.
"When leaves fall down they return to their roots".
This Chinese proverb, "When leaves fall down they return to their roots", described her life.
For those who don't know Chinese culture, it's also a pretty authentic look at the old hierarchy of family relationships.
Adeline's innocent and understandably bewildered blundering through her early life is bad enough, but the story gets even more twisted as it goes along.
Falling Leaves leaves for dead so many fictional versions of family life.
Approving or disapproving of someone's life story isn't a very realistic approach to reading a bio.
Read it as a story, and you'll see a book that needed to be written.
Read it as a bio, and you'll see a story which can barely fit in to the book.
Adeline Yen Mah was born in 1937 to a wealthy family in Tianjin.
When the family moved to Shanghai, Adeline was forced to endure the hideousness of her straight Chinese hair when she longed for a "perm" like the stylish westerns had.
Adeline Yen Mah paints herself as a saint while bitterly recalling every injustice she endured throughout her childhood.
What I did appreciate from this book was the author's constant referral to the economic and political changes that were taking place in China from 1937 to 1994.
I really didn't like this book.
About 1/3 of the way through, I thought to myself, "Why do I care about this person." I even asked out loud a couple of nights later why I was reading the book.
Her step mother didn't like her.
But, her stepmother didn't like any of the kids.
What really got me is that she couldn't believe her stepmother had left her out of the will.
Your childhood sucked, your step mother was evil, your brothers and sisters were back stabbers." I felt that this book was full of self-pity, which she's never overcome.
A truly dysfunctional family does operate like a soap opera in many ways; I grew up in one as another last child who should have been a boy and wasn't, though we were working class, and I was fortunate enough to find the tools and strength to break away.
Falling leaves is the second book I read from Adeline Yan Mah, which is a connecting story to The Chinese Cinderella.
Since I read The Chinese Cinderella first so the Falling Leaves doesnt seem as interesting.
I got pretty bored at the beginning so I strongly recommend readers to read this book before the other.
Which her rich father got another wife that is half french.
Their stepmother doesn't like them and treat them way too unfairly compare to her own children.
Adeline's brothers and sister blame her for having such stepmother.
This fabulous autobiography is both a Cinderella story and a view into 20th century Chinese life.
The author was born to a successful family in Shanghai, but had the bad luck to be the baby born just before her mother's death.
She spent her young life trying to please her parents and trying to bring her family together.
It is a portrait of a very dysfunctional family.
My heart ached for Adeline at the numerous injustices imposed on her by her cruel stepmother.
Thankfully Adeline found some encouragement from an aunt.
I don't think it's selfish, because hello, you were abused for years and your parents are loaded, certainly you're entitled to hope that at least when they kick it you'll get something out of it - but at the same time, I can't really relate to someone who would even want a cent of that kind of person's money, especially when they already made a great living completely on their own merit.As a side note: While this certainly wasn't the most amazing book I've ever read, I'm a little concerned at some of the reviews that depict the author as whiny and spoiled for wanting tram fare to go the mile and a half to school .
As a book, it is okay.
Well written, some good descriptions.
Read it yourself if you want to.My negative point of view is that I find children who keep chasing their parents' love and approval annoying.
I'm sure it is not so simple, but that doesn't make me love the book.
There is also a tiny dig in the way she gets rich due to payment scales in medicare legislation creating a "bonanza" for her.
She mentions how patients don't know the cost of services, as if this is a good thing since she can keep getting paid more.
I was mesmerized by the cruelty the author was subjected to by her own family in this quite depressing account of a child's life, and somehow I still left with a positive impression.
She didn't slam her family or say anything hurtful about them (which they MORE than deserved), she just presented her memories and the memories of her siblings as laid out facts.
I was so happy in the end when she finally met her match and was able to make peace (as much as can be expected) with what was left after her parents died.
I was excited to read this book.
Whenever I read memoirs, I look at them in terms of "this is someone's life story, it's not going to fit a traditional book story narrative" and then I do think of it in terms of a standard narrative.
Her use of language--including original Chinese sayings--is precise, evocative, and moving.
Second, as a book, it's a little weaker.
The recital of her feelings seemed somewhat robotic instead of moving in places.
Overall, I do recommend the book for an insightful and moving look at family dynamics in Chinese families.
I picked this book out because I thought there could have been some connections I could have made with it, considering my heritage is also Chinese.
It was a retell of her life and childhood, how she was picked on by her siblings and her stepmother was a witch.
Within this novel is a retell of the protagonist's family and her own heritage.
Parts that described her father and her siblings treatment towards her was well written.
However, besides that, i did feel as if the book lacked a lot of substance.
couldn't even get half way through.
the only emotion that this account brought up was anger - anger that such a whiny, spoilt child is still holding on to her mistreatment as a child while there is true abuse and neglect going on everyday that makes her inability to get tram fair (oh no, she had to walk 3 miles to her private school while her classmates took their chauffered limos!) look pathetic.
perhaps if she had any writing talents, the story would have been told in such a way that I might have felt for her.
however, she is such an awful writer and story teller that she simply came across as the poor little rich girl.
I read this book in 3 days.
I really admire the author's candor and honesty.
Her life story is heartbreaking at times and the history of Shanghai, Tianjin and Hong Kong were brought to life to me through her story.
Despite the cruelty she experienced, Adeline was always looking for acceptance and the best in other people.
For that alone, she is to be admired and yet others would admire her ability to have survived and succeeded in life academically and ultimately financially with so many obstacles to prevent her from doing so in her life.
I will remember her story for a long time.
Ever wonder what it would be like to grow up as the unwanted daughter? In Chinese culture, where people are ranked by sex, social status, and order of birth, the main character finds herself on the bottom of every measuring stick. Learn how she overcomes feelings of worthlessness, abandonment, and rejection to triumph over a culture that tries to kill her spirit simply because she was born a girl, the unwanted daughter of her father's least favorite wife.
Wow. Wow! WOW!!! I cried, I laughed (like twice) and I relived the injustices of being a small child (albeit on a much smaller scale than the author). Must read for anyone and everyone.
This book is by no means a feel-good memoir in almost any sense, as the dominating character---the author's stepmother---is on a par with any evil character conjured in fables or by Disney.
But she was sent to college and received a good education (as were most of her siblings), with much of the credit because of her own strong will (though many times I was bothered by her inability to just tell her parents were they could go when she got older.
Since memoir is my primary area of interest as a writer, and since Chinese culture/history remains one of my favorite subjects, this book ought to have thrilled me a lot more than it did.I like the way the story is structured, with the bereaved family gathering in the lawyer's office to hear the reading of their father's will, followed by all the years of earlier events leading up to that moment, a second pass at describing it with more understanding, and then a few more years in which the family essentially winds down.I marvel at the utterly evil parents portrayed here and their unspeakably callous treatment of innocent children, as well as the cruel manipulation that continues after everyone is grown.
(& by no means is this an excuse or diminishes the fact that abuse is wrong) She mentioned that love for your parents is an intrinsic, inescapable thing.
(& therefore making it even more difficult for her to assess that the abuse from her father was horribly wrong)What Mah teaches us is something many have heard before.
You don't have to agree w/ them associate w/ them or assist them at their hour of death- like Scar begging Simba, but forgiving them and loving them despite it all makes you the bigger person.
Everyone is so abusive that you wonder why she keeps going back for more, but, then, isn't that always the way?
In fact, no one cared except for you." Ack. Probably the hardest lesson for people to learn, isn't it?
That sometimes even your own family members ARE JUST HORRIBLE PEOPLE.
Though, as I said, every little detail of every up and down in her relationship with her various family membersdid get tiresome, the fact that she finally created a life for herself through her own determination is even more amazing, especially since she bore the brunt of the unrelenting abuse.
Thinking that it was a new book, I was surprised that it was published in 1997, already more than 20 years ago.
The author, Adeline Yen Mah, a Chinese-American physician born in China, was born in 1937, so she's 80 years old now.
All that was of interest to me but what I really found riveting was this girl's desperate struggle and her final success in finding love and acceptance.
It wasn't just the stepmother, but all her older siblings who mistreated her while the father did almost nothing to help or protect her.
Adeline must have been a brilliant girl because she was most successful at school.
I wanted to like this book.
It was a page turner but...Mary Karr was right in her go to book about memoirs.
Never write a memoir to get revenge and this seems like this was exactly what it was, revenge.
I couldn't tell.
I couldn't tell the how writers feelings reflected her abuse, or if it was just a random journal.
Etc. It was like this with many of her family she included in her memoir.
Every idea of hers and her reflections of her former life were all over the place.
I felt like I was reading a angry journal.
I loved the way the story was told and I felt somewhat bad for Niang.
I wish we could have gotten a bit of Niang's side of the story, too, however, this was fantastic the way it was.
I didn't like Lydia's treatment of her in the end, remembering that Adeline had made the offer to give Tai-ling the same treatment, but was turned down by Lydia herself saying that Tai-ling was to be married.
I gave this book a 4/5 stars because it was certainly one of the more interesting reads of the month.
Spoiler Alert!
I never felt any connection or deep sympathy buildup with Adeline Yen Mah. Apparently she did not have the best of chilhoods.
Her brothers teased and hit her and her stepmother did hit her once, but was she sexually molested, locked in closets, sold down the river?
Nooooo, she was well educated (admittedly lonely), fed, clothed, and hospitalized when sick, sent abroad for more education, all on her father's dime!
Then she has the nerve to say he didn't love her when she felt left out of the will!
Why should anyone expect to be left anything that is not yours to begin with is beyond me!
Depression caught up with me while reading this book. I was already touched by its condensed version (Chinese Cinderella) and reading this book felt like rubbing in the "touchy feeling" even more. My heart goes to Aunt Baba who survived being a spinster, a worker in a male-dominated labor force, and a victim of war. It's amazing how a person endures, and live through life amid utmost cruelty.
Adeline Yen Mah's memoir is interesting from several vantage points: spanning her childhood in china, young adulthood in England and the remainder of her life in California, her story is one that lends great context to the pre-world war 2 china and it's transition to communism following the revolution. But her story is really about yearning for love and acceptance in an extremely difficult family and ultimately the will to survive and triumph.
I was surprised I enjoyed this book as much as I did. It was a good story about personal resilience. It also highlighted how powerful the need to be loved and accepted is. I also enjoyed learning more about Chinese culture and history. The author did a good job keeping it relevant to the story.
More detailed account than "A Chinese Cinderella". I skipped the earlier chapters because I already knew the story but I was happy to find that she got a bit of closure in her relationship with her dad. The book made me more grateful for the siblings I have.
