https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/766421.Mani

Here are all of the great historian’s frequent digressions - often in Leigh Fermor’s prose growing and blossoming into grand jazz-like riffs of fantasy and lyricism, expanding, culminating, and subsiding back into narrative - his eagerness to indulge in and explore histories and pseudo-histories, myths and legends and superstitions, his regular rhythms of fact and speculation from the present day and from days from throughout the last two millennia, his balancing of activity and indolence.
I have personally experienced the Peloponnese only on a day trip out of Athens - Mycenae, Epidaurus - and would now like to experience much more.I am also eager to read more of Leigh Fermor’s works.
My 1987 ppbk edition of PLF’s ”Mani”, now at last read from beginning to end, has sprouted a dense brush-like flourish of bright colour, right up to the point (p.271); where the force of the flowing current of these little sticky aid memoires instead began to hinder my progress.
Wholly adverse to notions of economical and precise language, it was if PLF aimed to boast about a region of Greece he clearly and passionately loved; but didn’t want his readers to be so attracted that they should follow him and leave England.
One final quote, just to demonstrate why the five stars I gave this book are not enough: "I lay smoking in a sybaritic trance watching the clouds of cigarette smoke slowly cauliflowering across the room to turn, when they struck the the dazzling stratum of air, into a paper-thin cross section of madly whirling grey and blue marble." Sigh!When you consider the part of Greece that he described, a desolate peninsula stretching south from the Peloponnese and separating the Ionian from the Adriatic Seas, it is amazing that Fermor could hold the reader's interest with such surpassing ease.Parenthetical chapters on such topics as myths and Greek icons could stand alone as essays.

Paddy Fermor was never a tourist and only sometimes a traveler.
Equally at home with ancient texts, academic histories, and with the legends, stories, poetry, and folk beliefs drawn effortlessly from the mouths of his informants, Fermor synthesized some of this material into his descriptions as if he were writing an ethnography/history/archaeological report/architectural analysis/art appraisal/literary survey all rolled into one well-told tale.
While his description of the Mani is fascinating and educational, the real joy of reading Fermor’s works is to experience Fermor interacting intensely with the people and places he encountered.
I started this ages ago on a bus skirting the Mani (the spectacular Kalamata to Sparta road, passing the genuinely sinister spot where the Spartans abandoned their inadequate infants) and read it in Mystras and Monemvasia, and put it aside, and read more months later on a late afternoon flight across the dusky blue hills of the Peloponnese.
It is certainly intellectually, stylistically and socially exclusive, full, FULL, of obscure Balkan history (and Corsica and Crete and god knows what else) and I feel (rather than know) that there is material here about the Mani that is not anywhere else in any language.
I don't feel I have properly consumed it, but there may be other summers in Greece to dip into it, if I'm lucky.
It is a harsh environment too; precious little grows here because of its rugged and barren landscape.This isolation also means that the region has maintained much stronger links to its ancient past too.
The myths and legends of history feel so much more alive here than in other parts of Greece.
The language harks back to old dialects, and even thought the orthodox church has a strong influence, pagan and old habits still exist.Mixed in with Fermor’s travels around Mani are several chapters on the history of the land and the people.
Overall 3.5 stars, as the history parts were a little tedious occasionally.
some even eventually ended up in corsica (still there too).fermor gained great respect for this interesting travel and sociology and religious history book.
and it kinda saved his bacon as far as making a living as a writer, he followed up with "rumeli", a similar sojourn in northern greece.he had yet to write his "1st" book of trilogy of his walk from england to turkey (though actually, he had already written the last book of the trilogy, but that's another story, one can find in a great bio about fermor here Patrick Leigh Fermor: An Adventurethis has a very nice intro by michael gorra, a handy map (but you'll need your atlas, really) and good index.
no pics.for those interested in top notch travel writing, greek history, natural history, church history, and a must-read for fermor ites.
The water, sliding in and out of it, plopped with a hollow and lulling resonance a few yards away...I was lying half in and half out of the sea, my ears full of water noises and the rise and fall of a million cicadas, letting the sun's horses and chariot wheels ride over me roughshod;"And from the opening paragraph of the final chapter: "The Timing, manner and mood of a private assault on a new town are a serious matter...[Constantinople:] must be attacked from the sea and the haggish but indestructible splendour, crackling with all the atmospherics of its long history, allowed to loom slowly across the shining Propontis.
Most obviously it lacks the sense of direction, literally, that Fermor conveyed with his journey from Holland to Istanbul.
Part of what made the Europe books so fun, somewhat oddly, was that he couldn't speak German or Hungarian, so he had to bond with his hosts and newfound friends through alcohol and smiles and adventure.
But by this point he speaks Greek fluently and knows a ton of Greece's history, so he's telling us about the place--in the other books it was his hosts and companions who told him, and us, about where he had been and where he was going.
Patrick Leigh Fermor had meant this book to be but "one chapter among many, each of them describing the stages and halts, the encounters, the background and the conclusions of a leisurely journey - a kind of recapitulation of many former journeys - through continental Greece and the islands." He wound up straying somewhat from his original brief: this "chapter", on a remote backwater of Greece, spilled out into a 350 page book.
The account of their travels is fascinating, and very digressive, so much so that Leigh Fermor apologizes for his many omissions: "The most noticeable of these is the belief in vampires, their various nature and their origins, to which many pages should have been devoted".
Patrick Leigh Fermor is one of the great travel writers and in my opinion this is his best book, though A Time of Gifts is still an important book for me, having inspired me to travel when I was younger (I'm still going today!).
His prose might read as a bit ornate today, but that's why you really need to give yourself a peaceful stretch of time to absorb it and luxuriate in its elegant prose.
I spent last spring in the Peloponnese and thought of Fermor a lot.
His book contributed to my sense of wonder.
A lovely book, beautifully written.
More a history book than a travel book, but still an interesting journey into the life of the Mani, the central peninsula in Greek Peloponnese. From ancient Greeks to Byzantine despotates, next to Turkish invasion, modern independence, language, food... Really great to read!
It is rugged and barren for the most part- not the kind of place most travel writers would be hurriedly packing their bags to go and see.Patrick had a certain flair for rhapsodic language which he employed on the rocks and cacti that helped enliven the place, but you know he's reaching when he spends a page describing the AIR.I give him points for creativity.On the other hand, he also had a tendency to recount history in a long, exotically-worded fashion which had the interesting property of causing my eyes to slide off the page uncomprehendingly.
The section on the history of Greek iconic art just about did me in.The parts of the book I enjoyed most were his portraits of the everyday people he met along the way.
A small, rugged and isolated peninsula in the Peloponnese, this Greek backwoods is steeped in the history of the ancients (Sparta is on the doorstep), Byzantine twists and turns, and peopled by an independent, eclectic mix of locals - including a fisherman quite possibly the rightful King of Constantinople.Having travelled to Sparta and nearby areas by local bus many years ago, this book echoes for me an experience a bit off the beaten track.
Of course Fermor characteristically goes whole hog - trekking in the mountains, conversing in Greek and getting up to all sorts of mischief.
That reaction is based on two books: A Time of Gifts and Between The Woods and the Water.
(I even recently bought a copy of In Tearing Haste, a collection of letters between Paddy and the Duchess of Devonshire – aka “Debbo” – fandom indeed) Mani was more of a struggle for me.
There is no doubt that it contains quintessential Paddy gems.
His late night ruminations on how one might, even today, reclaim Constantinople from the Turks are very funny.
It also presents a number of scholarly reflections on the population of the southern Peloponnese and their possible origins in Constantinople.
Basically just a long series of digressions centering around Greece, and particularly the wild, little visited Mani region.
While framed around the trip, relatively little of the text is devoted to his actual misadventures.
Mostly what you’re in for is a brilliant, widely traveled, hyper-literate man dumping all his theories about the history, culture and mythology of Greece onto a page.
To my money he was on more often in this than in any of the Time of Gifts trilogy, where his tendency to spend two pages describing the features of Gothic churches occasionally threatened to drive me insane.
Wish you could speak Greek? Like to walk through the mountains of so. greece with your girlfriend and visit places where the gods lived? Wish you had a girl/boy friend who would do that? Like to drink ouzo before lunch with the old guy locals? Like to hear a guy talk about the layers of cultural history here like he's lived through it all? If not, then don't read this book, because he uses big words in wonderful ways!
Since Fermor was the most interesting and inspiring figure of the 20th C., it's not surprising that he's a fantastic art historian and critic. The long passages about the history of icon painting are an exciting addition to the travel stories and historical anecdotes.
Νομίζω είναι η πρώτη φορά που βλέπω κείμενο να αγαπάει τόσο αληθινά και περίτεχνα τον βράχο.
These digressions range from pages about the history of certain words to long discussions of Homer to a chapter about how the classical Greek gods and their temples were stolen and transformed into Christian Saints and basilicas -- even though the villagers in some remote areas feel closer to the pre-Christian deities.
But the real glory of the book is Fermor's beautiful, loving descriptions of the villages and countryside of this remote area, especially the fishing villages and their villagers, and of the expeditions of the caiques (or fishing boats) that the villagers still depended on for survival in many cases.
The only advice I have for potential readers is that you will expand your vocabulary when you read this one, Patrick is from a different era/generation when English (mainly UK) was spoken and communicated differently if you were privileged enough to be educated.
Patrick is a free spirit and is/was so respected in Greece that he's won many honorable awards from the Greek people, mainly for his active role during the resistance movement in Crete during WW2.
His passion and zest for Greek culture, history and its people certainly show in this book.
Not Patrick Leigh Fermor's best book, but interesting for a glimpse into prelapsarian Greece, especially the mountainous, remote part where most of these musings, journeys, and explorations take place.
What makes Fermor's travel cycle beginning with A Time of Gifts so wonderful is his celebration of the people he meets situated in his splendid descriptions of the terrain and culture.
It's the people who are missing in this book -- of course, we are introduced to some, but not in the ways, depths, and joys as with the earlier book.
It feels a bit like Fermor is being discreet, and that's a terrible thing for a travel writer.
Leigh Fermor is a master of language, and his long, sometimes rambling, asides are what makes this book of travels rather unique. The chapter on icons alone is one of the best detailing of the subject I've ever read. He barely mentions his traveling companion, Joan, except as part of the "we", but their travels through the sparse and enigmatic Mani area of the Pelopenese peninsula reveal a still-ancient world in the modern Greece of the 1950s.
Part travelogue, part memoir and part lyrical account of local myths and legends, this book by Patrick Leigh Fermor undoubtedly imbues the reader with his love of the Mani - an area of the Peloponnese that is still relatively unfrequented and shrouded in mystery. Backed up by his extensive research this is a literary guide to the area as he travelled throughout the Deep Mani in the 1950s. As such he has left a lasting tribute to the area he obviously loved.
As a fan of PLF I give this book 5 *. It is a beautifully written and researched account of his hike across the Mani with his future wife Joan. On the way he not only writes of their journey but also relates the history, geography and language of his beloved Greece. He eventually builds a house and settles in Greece.
For me the frequent musings of history adds richness to the book but detracts from my attention towards his actual travel. Still, like all of Leigh Fermor's books which I've read, once they are over I wish to experience more. His descriptions of places, people and their interactions are wonderful to read.
A gorgeous much-more-than a travel book by one of the greatest travel writers of the twentieth century. Pull up an armchair, open a bottle of ouzo and let PLF carry you away, o'er the hills and far away ...
se lo prendete pensando a un libro di viaggio, desistete. E' un interessante libro di storia, antropologia, storia dell'arte, non sempre scorrevolissimo, richiede attenzione e concentrazione. Viaggio, poco. Chiarito questo "dettaglio", è un libro che merita sicuramente di essere letto.
