https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567682.The_Mothman_Prophecies
When I read this book I was also on a huge UFO conspiracy reading binge and have to admit that this book kind of scared me at the time.
On November 12, 1966, five men who were digging a grave at a cemetery near Clendenin, West Virginia, claimed to see a man-like figure fly low from the trees over their heads.
This is often identified as the first known sighting of what became known as the Mothman.The Mothman is a legendary creature reportedly seen in the Point Pleasant area from November 12, 1966, to December 15, 1967.
It set me on a quest to read every horrifying book I could get my hands on and The Mothman Prophecies fell into that category.
It turns out that we weren't that wrong - BUT, for Keel, that included everything the government told us about space exploration and life on other planets also was a lie.
While Keel may have believed what he was writing, there were very people at the time who read this book as "fact." If you take it with a grain of salt and read it as "sci-fi" then it can be an enjoyable and somewhat terrifying read.
Huge thank-you to my GR friends, Karl because until I saw this on his shelf, I didn't even know it existed.
Keel is the dude that coined "Men in Black" and that his theories behind mysterious flying objects and their freaky light-shows is entirely unique, to me, at least.
I lived half my life in West Virginia, but sadly, never witnessed weird lights in the sky (my tiny WV college was haunted as hell, though).
I do know that the area that the author refers to as "Ohio valley" is also known as "chemical valley".
Over the years that we were together we read a lot of this type of book, including Keel's earlier efforts.Over the years I've changed a bit, but still find these books at least interesting, my past of Frank Edwards, Charles Fort(e) and others including Keel is still with me.
Keel has over the years put a lot of his "studies", "experiences", and interviews together and come up with a "theory".
Still, no matter how you feel or what you think about it all, you might enjoy the book.
I got a little bored with the read and was very ready for it to be over before it was, but some will enjoy it more.
I'm giving this book two stars (rather than just one) because of the seemingly unintentional hilarity of it as well as its psychological depth. John Keel is clearly both delusional and megalomaniacal, and this book chronicles what appears to be his descent into madness. My favorite parts are the ones in which he goes out to an abandoned road at night to commune with the Mothman BY HIMSELF, with no witnesses or cameras to prove it. So yeah, this is a weird one. I'd be lying if I said I didn't get a kick out of it, though.
The book was pretty scary...veracity not withstanding.
It's a creepy title staring down at me, the haunting sound of fiddles off in the distance.
Sometimes when I stare at this book for a while I get very hungry.
Yet still scared and hungry in combination.You might even say I get "Scungry".
While reading this book on the toilet, my phone rang and and a disembodied voice on the other end screeched "Your in the bathroom aren't you?"Turns out it was my mom (she sometimes sounds like the Mothman)but damn this book was scaaaaaaary!I'm going to go get something to eat.
What a disturbing book.
I remember that the film was pretty disturbing too but it had nothing on this.Account after account of strange lights, unexplained grey/winged creatures, animal evisceration, mechanical failures, hallucinations, strange phone calls- the list goes on and on.
Then it gets truly bizarre as the "aliens" begin to predict world disasters, culminating in the bridge collapse at Point Pleasant.John Keel leaves little doubt in the reader's mind that impossible things can happen to every day people.
The question that he asks is: why?
And, there's no way to answer that question...
The movie is as watered down an adaptation as Disney's "Hunchback of Notre Dame."Let me give out a caveat: I don't think your enjoyment of this book hinges on believing a word of it.
Not a "missing link." Every weird thing is caused by the "phenomenon" for it's own amusement.Seriously considering living in a world like that for a second.You don't have to be a believer.
Hmmm.Still, Mothman as the Mysterious Harbinger of the Weird is my favorite cryptid, and he's only a part of the show here.Take a look at a gallery of Mothman pictures at my Tumblr!
My inquiries lead me to a series of books, one of which: The Siren Call of Hungry Ghosts: A Riveting Investigation Into Channeling and Spirit Guides by Joe Fisher covered exactly what I was encountering.
Joe Fisher's book then lead me to look into the UFO and 'alien' phenomena, and also at prophecy through the ages.
O.k. now my review rambles as much as Keel's book...I would recommend to anyone interested in Keel's work to also read The Siren Call of Hungry Ghosts and The End of the World as We Know It.
Die vier Sterne gibt es nicht für Glaubwürdigkeit oder literarische Vorzüge, sondern einfach nur, weil ich Spaß an UFO-Legenden /-Mythen habe.
Außerdem schreibt Keel auch humorvoll, was ihn von unerträglichen Besserwissern wie von Däniken unterscheidet.Es bräuchte mal eine Abhandlung über die Rolle des Telefons in Krimis und Supernatural Stories in der Pre-Handy Ära.
"May I use your phone" ist nicht nur ein legändärer Satz der "Rocky Horror Picture Show", der auch in den "Mothman Prophecies" fällt, überhaupt ist mit dem Handy nichts mehr, wie es vorher war.
Wenn heutzutage die Frau (oder der Mann) nicht punktlich nach Hause kommen, werden sie auf dem Handy angerufen.
Wenn heute das UFO über den Woken auftaucht: Handykamera.
Keel is definitely no Charles Fort - he's too eager to make his case whereas the latter correlated, speculated, and encouraged the reader to come to their own conclusions; even so, if this ostensibly 'true' tale is taken with a generous serving of salt, it can provide an entertainingly unnerving reading experience for enthusiasts of the weird.
This book is bad on so many levels from its terribly written prose, to the shoddy research, from the unfocused, disorganized approach, to the lack of references or bibliography, and the stunning arrogance and insulting attitude of John Keel, shit-bubble extraordinaire.If you want a book on which to practice identifying logical fallacies, look no further.
Instead of "based on a true story" the book should have "a series of unrelated anecdotes" on the cover.John Keel lists numerous contactee stories from people all over the world and attempts to connect them.
Contactee stories range from the fantastic (people transported to other worlds and interacting with aliens) to the banal (someone hears a car door slam, yet there are no cars in sight).
Men with long hair "before the hippie explosion" are considered interdimensional beings.Keel isn't a skeptic, yet he seems to be one at times.
I'm actually surprised at the number of positive reviews of this book.
Somewhere in the book he supposes that this mysterious Mothman could have been a man on a hang-glider.
"That could almost be construed as logical." However, he IMMEDIATELY debunks that theory with a statement to this affect: "But hang-gliders were not very well known at that time." *shaking my head* Whatever...the man needed to become familiar with Occam's Razor.
At least the movie did something good with it.Full disclosure; This is the only book I've ever read that I've wanted to burn.
I thought this was going to be "non-fiction" first-person narrative of John Keel's experiences in Point Pleasant and what he thought was the explanation.
He arrived in Point Pleasant convinced he had a solution and surprise, surprise, he found a mystery.
I scanned ahead after reading 37 pages and the bulk of the book appears to be a compendium of the author's research "evidence" filled with phrases like, "Obviously the government was determined to cover up the facts." It's like being stuck next to a cult recruiter on the bus.I rarely quit books.
When I do quit, I don't usually rate a book.
This time I think the one star is fair.
And I don't mean that that means it's "all in one's head", I mean that our mental states leak out into the world and somehow affect what happens, or attract strange happenings, or bring to light strange things that are always there but usually overlooked, or...
Keel often wrote like a journalist inflating his stories with exaggeration to attract attention, but I think it was all in the cause of getting across his basic point - that this world is far stranger than we usually give it credit for or allow.
Hmmm, a documentary wasn't what I expected, with a few too many conspiracy theories but there were a few good ones in there.
DNF at 15%, at least for now. Maybe I'll pick it up in the future, but, for now, I can't waste any more time trying to make myself read this.
The Mothman Prophecies was an okay book, not the greatest but definitely not the worst, although considering I haven't read another monster-doc so in this case - not the best?
To be honest I grabbed this off of Audible because Craig Wasson was the narrator.
Well, a damn good one!
Have you listened to him narrate 11 22 63?If you haven't do try it out, you shan't regret it!Okay, now for the book....
you see where I'm going with this.In conclusion, if you're a monster buff, pick this up.
If you enjoy Craig Wasson as much as I do, pick this up.
This is one of those books that I don't know how to rate.
The author has a talent for description and a flair for turning phrases which kept me reading.
However, he seems more interested in painting a grand image, than in providing a coherent sequence of events.
The book is constantly jumping around in time from immediately relevant events to things that happened years after or before the tragedy in Point Pleasant, WV.
I cannot say if this was an attempt by the author to demonstrate a possible alternate time frame experienced by the "others", or his own descent into paranoia.

A year ago I got my first taste of satisfaction, from the book "Lights in the sky and little green men", in which the authors concluded that residual UFO's, the ones that cannot be explained away, are in fact real, but are not physical but spiritual.
He does seem to see a continuity between paranormal experiences throughout history and those of today, with poltergeists, demons, Bigfoot, Nessie, UFOs, and Men in Black all falling under the same explanatory umbrella, whatever that may be.
You are not going to get closure from this book, but his account is gripping and his speculations are thoughtful and intelligent.
John Keel, one of my favorite researchers and reporters of paranormal phenomena, died last month.
John Keel is a self-styled investigative researcher of the paranormal in the Fortean spirit (influenced by Charles Fort) who writes with witty logic.
One interesting thing I learned from John Keel: The original "men in black" were apparently non-humans in disguise posing as intelligence officers, who kept asking for glasses of water, without which their faces turned red, and had funny haircuts and mysterious wires running up their legs, and spoke in these weird singong prerecorded-sounding voices.
Not at all like the Will Smith-Tommy Lee Jones movie version.
Completely different than the movie portrayal. The film was just a small portion. This is a great entertainment, light read for anyone fascinated with supernatural and paranormal. I recently moved to WV and have gained an interest in the varying folklore. HOWEVER, Keel leans towards a rational and logical gathering of stories and info, rather than overly preaching "ALIEN HYPE". He even touches on "ALIEN HYPE" as a government agenda to distract...which is a conspiracy that interests me. I absolutely enjoyed this one, but take it for what it is...a light read, not any sort of bible of supernatural phenomena.
This would be an enjoyable book on a truly mysterious set of real-life events if it weren't for two things: 1) The book reads like a stream of consciousness with no discernible beginning, middle, or end.
Essentially, he argues that "UFOs" and sightings of the Mothman are all caused by the same phenomena: beings from another dimension that can vary their appearances, somehow changing into various manifestations based on who is seeing them.
As he argues, this means that EVERY supernatural or unexplainable phenomenon is caused by the same thing - from Bigfoots to "men in black" to religious experiences.
That's like arguing that all diseases are caused by the same common element.
it's got nothing to do with the movie (which was scary as hell, i'm not putting it down); it's not a novel in any normal sense; nor is it exactly non-fiction (as i'm sure john keel would agree).
it's more like a glimpse into a possible universe, a possible way of seeing...
if you let it, maybe the world works this way...
or maybe it works this way anyway...
the non-stop barrage of "evidence" gets a little wearisome after a while, but you have to admire its absolute refusal to play according to the rules and be a normal kind of book.
of whatever kind."If there is a universal mind, must it be sane?"-- Charles Fort
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده است؛ میتوانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0265349
در صورت تمایل، جهت مشخصات فیلمی که بر اساس این کتاب ساخته شده‌ است؛ می‌توانید از لینک زیر استفاده بفرماییدhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0265349
The first is that John Keel must have an incredibly creative mind and probably deserves a creative writing award for creating this book.
The rest is an incredibly dense and complex telling of the UFO craze that surrounded John Keel during the later 60s and early 70s and the numerous characters Keel met during that time.There's a sincerity to Keel's writing that reminds me of someone like Bill Bryson.
Mothman Prophecies is a book if you have some knowledge of UFO lore but don't actually know that much.
It's a book of wonder, mystery, and truly, of human nature.
This book is wild
I reread this to put my trip to Point Pleasant, West Virginia (and the Mothman Museum!) into context. This is a classic of paranormal studies and was adapted into a film of the same name. It's a difficult work to rate, but it's definitely a classic for a reason, and a "must read" for any Fox Mulder types or students/fans of the cryptid/UFO/Men in Black phenomena in the United States.
