https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7805.Pale_Fire
Through misdirection, intentional fallacies, wordplay and wit, as well as a vast array of allusions to his own works and life, Nabokov has created a parody of epic comedic proportions.In keeping true to Nabokov’s style, I present to you a pale parody.A Parody Fire        I was the shadow of the reader slain        by laughter through the tale of Zemblan’s famed        runaway royalty, a story which        served to mimic the politics5     from which Nabokov also did flee        like Pale Fire’s commentator to work in an American university.
I liked² this book³, especially the poem.____________________________________ When I use the first-person singular pronoun, I am here referring to my normal persona. I have also, at various times, maintained other personas. For example, between 1999 and 2001, I used to play chess regularly on the KasparovChess site under the handle "swedish_chick".I find this a strange example of what makes people believe things. Everyone was extremely skeptical on first meeting her; but, for some reason, as soo
For example, between 1999 and 2001, I used to play chess regularly on the KasparovChess site under the handle "swedish_chick".I find this a strange example of what makes people believe things.
Everyone was extremely skeptical on first meeting her; but, for some reason, as soon as they discovered that she actually could speak fluent Swedish, they were also ready to believe that she was an attractive 26 year old graduate student living in Stockholm.
I still can't explain why this might be.² People liked hearing stories about Chick, as she was known to my circle of friends.
The "novel" part of this "novel" resides in the commentary and footnotes on this poem.
Nabokov constructs an entire narrative, complete with rounded characters and locations, within the line-by-line commentary of the poem.
Like in Lolita we are introduced to a less than admirable, unreliable narrator Charles Kinbote.
Slowly he begins his commentary on his friend's poem, Pale Fire.
Pale Fire is a true masterpiece.
And like Ulysees, I can say without doubt that this is one of the greatest novels of the 20th Century, if not, all time.
“The summer night was starless and stirless, with distant spasms of silent lightning.”― Vladimir Nabokov, Pale FireDo you enjoy reading the poetry of Percy Bysshe Shelley, John Keats, Lord Byron and William Butler Yates?
Order yourself both the book and the audiobook and read and listen concurrently - you will have one of the most rewarding, aesthetically satisfying literary experiences of your life.Turning to the novel itself, we have Kinbote's forward at the beginning and index at the end, and the actual John Shade poem, entitled Pale Fire, and the extensive Charles Kinbote commentary on the poem, which turns out to be not a commentary in the conventional sense of the term, but a benchmark for a subject of Kinbote's prime interest - his dear distant northern land of Zembla and a subject even more dear to his heart - himself.
I’ll example you with thievery:The sun’s a thief, and with his great attractionRobs the vast sea; the moon’s an arrant thief, And her pale fire she snatches from the sun;The sea’s a thief, whose liquid surge resolvesThe moon into salt tears; the earth’s a thief, That feeds and breeds by a composture stolenFrom general excrement: each thing’s a thief.Shakespeare, Timon of Athens, Act IV, scene IIIThis is not a regular review, and may not be for you.
While passim means 'already referenced frequently', Sybil Shade, translator of others' lines,is hardly mentioned in the index, not in the extensive note about her poet spouse, nor in the one about her neighbour, Kinbote himself.
Whoop-dee-doo, five stars to Mr. Nabokov.
You throw gold stars into Pale Fire and the vanity of star-ratings is exposed.
Only the higher-ups get to hand them out, but c'mmon, is there a higher-up for Nabokov?
Whoever can, hand him a real star from the sky.
There's a profound difference between clever writing and brilliant writing, and I don't know how it happens that in Pale Fire there's no shame or hiding from clever devices, and yet the outcome is brilliant.
You don't expect a farce, a contrived "set-up" (the writing of the reader of the writing, and god knows which is the narrator) to be dizzy with beauty.
And of course, if you want to be all realist about it, the whole thing is written by Nabakov rather than Shade or Kinbote anyway.But (meta-meta-meta level) my copy of the book has pencil writing in the margin from some student/s, who've provided their own commentary on Kinbote's (=Botkin or Shade's, = Nabakov's) commentary, seemingly without realising the irony.And (meta-meta-meta-meta level), someone else has stuck a post-it on the last page, saying:'Dear Phantom Annotator,Your meta-scribbling has amused me more you could imagine'I laughed.
I think the draw lies more with the mystery and puzzle of the plot’s construction and the surprises of artful treasures in your path and of doorways that transport you down different paths of meaning.We are presented first with an emulation of a scholar’s introduction to the final work of a well-respected poet before he died, John Shade.
For example, in the introduction Kinbote recommends buying two copies of the future book so the reader can read the lines of the poem side by side with his commentary.
See what I mean about clues and doorways that hop you to other dimensions (Nabokov called them plums)?You don’t have to feel like an idiot for not catching onto the innumerable literary references in the book.
I’m proof that this can still be a good experience even if the only thing you can distinguish is stew.As must be true of most Nabokov works, this book features multiple layers of intellectual fascination.
It’s structured, cleverly enough, as a 999-line poem by a character named John Shade along with a metafictive analysis around it comprising a forward and an extended commentary by Shade’s university colleague and neighbor, Charles Kinbote.
Anyway, if you’re the kind of reader who likes to try smelling what kind of onion was put in the stew, this layer will add to your pleasure.My own enjoyment came from imagining the fun Nabokov had writing it.
Such is the memory misery of our poor, dear poet Mr.Shade, the father of the departed bride, Hazel!“For we die every day; oblivion thrives Not on dry thighbones but on blood-ripe lives, And our best yesterdays are now foul piles Of crumpled names, phone numbers and foxed files.” [Canto 3]Pale Fire is arguably the best book of Vladimir Nabokov.
Credit goes to Nabokov) soon turns out to be a painted parchment in an artistic cage echoed with sonorous memories.The poem brims with disconsolate descriptions of the lost daughter and his missive meditations on after-life.
Life is a message scribbled in the dark. One of the reasons I’ve decided to rehash a love affair with poetry this year is because of what Jane Hirshfield says in Nine Gates: “No matter how carefully we read or how much attention we bring to bear, a good poem can never be completely entered, completely known.” When I’ve been reading a Thomas Hardy novel longer than anticipated (a novel known for its preachiness, albeit seasoned sentence structures), a narrative poem and novel like Pale Fire simp
You read this and want to feel bad for Nabokov, that he took so many literary hits for this one, from critics unable to see beyond the "confused surface," or to see, as Nabokov once said, that “all art is deception.” Try explaining intentions to the reader, Goethe said, and “the reader will always go right on demanding that which the author is trying to avoid.” Sure, I read the long poem and did not bother much with Kinbote, the peculiar narrator, for his commentary I found laborious and slightly pretentious.
Pale Fire presents a 999-line poem from murdered poet John Shade, followed by an unreliable commentary (and earlier intro) from his stalker and apparent chum Charles Kimbote.
The digressions on Zemblan kings and princes are (intentionally, but so what?) long-winded and dreary, and the line-by-line commentary, although amusing in places, doesn’t particularly dazzle except as a series of Vlad set-pieces, like a looser Pnin, albeit with more formal ingenuity.
The poem isn’t supposed to be a spoof of bad poetry, according to Vlad biographer Brian Boyd in this boxset special edition.
It ain’t half bad, that poem.
What a beautiful work of art, Nabokov was such a master at both prose and poetry. This unique blend of prose and poetry offers a delightful sojourn to cherish !!
Pale Fire is many things, a Jack-in-the-box, a tour-de-force, a clockwork toy with many components, a chess problem, an enigma, an infernal machine, a trap to catch readers, a cat-and-mouse game, it's a novel that sends your head spinning for all the right reasons.
It's also (not what I expected) damn right funny!.Our leading man, Charles Kinbote, is a university teacher brimming with outrageous delusions, and who is obsessed with the old poet John Shade.
After reading Lolita (possibly the best prose I have come across) and Pnin, another mighty fine novel, Pale Fire just raises the bar.
I find it amazing that Nabokov would have written this novel (which oddly is a haunting retelling of my life story) without mentioning me by name at all.
That is what I love about Nabokov.
He is a gentle ghost of a poet that exists in many levels and in many times and in many spaces simultaneously.
I think his integrity in lying about and hiding my influence is both beautiful and nobel and certainly shaking with a heterosexual, Russian poet's naiveté.
He completed it the following day, Sunday, July 17, 2016, after it became clear that the coup had failed.Canon Fire[After and In Many of the Words of Vladimir Nabokov, John Shade and Charles Kinbote]I have a certain liking, I admit,For parody, that last resort of wit.Though any jackass can rig up the stuffIn this epoch when packs of rogues can bluffLike the prosemongers of the Grubby Group;The Mitsein Man, the owlish Nincompoop,And the Post-Modern Acolytes of our ageLeave but a pinch of coal dust on the page.Readers who think there’s something you can learn,Listen to distant cocks crow, and discernConmal, the hack reviewer of fat booksThat staid academia overlooks,Who inveighs against populist tractionWith unpardonable satisfaction.This pompous obtuse son of a bitchPhotographs all his books to show like kitsch.Like many near-cretins, he craves novelty,Though he’s a stranger to modesty.Some regard the blockhead's demolishment And his rave with similar detachment.True, his Vollmann crits only loudly cry,Each work is "a great book by a great guy."Pretending to all that he’s contrary,He lives too much in his library, Not to mention various other nooksAmong the bewitched hush of buried books.

I didn't roll around in the sheets and get sweaty and come at the same time like all of the sex scenes on HBO tv shows.
Who's hand (who's bed?)?
Eavesdropping like a compliment that is better to be savored later when you don't have to face it.
I don't know what to say and am not ready to believe it compliment.
I don't know what the hell happened and I can't see the whole picture, only the floor, the shoes and under the bed.
I like being under it and not knowing the whole damned marriage.
I won't know what the hell happened.
18 Celebrate vile and be Agamemnon Reading will be a constant to all folkBut pseudo-weird reviews is hard to come bySo this trash was made to spiff King OtisYall geeks need to chill oh my bye byeBefore I go, write what you want, true sire24 Read your kindle fire that book called Pale Fire (The chorus is going to be borrowed from Miranda Lambert's new pop song You Can't Ride My Little Red Wagon which I think forbids normal people from riding little firetrucks.)Commentary by Otis Chandler*Line 1 “fat king”: He’s probably thinking of Burger King customers.
Pale Fire is another great American novel narrated by another great Nabokovian vampire, the academic showboat Dr. Charles Kinbote.
Despite Kinbote’s obsession with making the poem about himself and his memories (or delusions, depending on which of the several ways you choose to interpret this book; not that any particular stance is better than another) of poor troubled Zembla, Shade’s “Pale Fire” stands as a lively rumination on mortality, the afterlife, and the suicide of the poet’s daughter.
Arriva la rivoluzione ed egli è costretto all'esilio e, grazie a magici assistenti, approda a New Wye, negli Appalachi, nelle vesti dello studioso Charles Kinbote, assunto dalla locale università e vicino di casa dell'amato poeta John Shade (sfumatura, ombra e molto altro), al quale suggerisce, tra ispirazione e falsificazione, di narrare in versi la sua storia di nobile nascita, persecuzione e fuga; ma egli il suo canto riserva ad altre storie, trasportato dal dolore personale di una vita sepolta e vittima solo di un destino ineffabile, così racconterà altre vicende, tradendo la missione profetica ma al tempo stesso rispecchiando lo spirito alchemico e filosofico della saga regale.
Something tells me that having a conversation with Nabokov would’ve been a real sonofabitch.
Look, Pale Fire is flat-out fucking Genius—there’s no way around that one.
Look for yourself:“Of the not very many ways known of shedding one’s body, falling, falling, falling is the supreme method, but you have to select your sill or ledge very carefully so as not to hurt yourself or others.
Nabokov had a truly remarkable gift for creating vampires of the human variety—he’s the thinking man or woman’s Bram Stoker.
Read it or forever live with the niggling feeling that your existence can never truly be whole ("or something like that," to quote Uncle Bob Pollard).
Nabokov's Pale Fire is "what a composer of chess problems might term a king-in-the-corner waiter of the solus rex type."  Perhaps even moreso than Luzhin Defense, Pale Fire seems to me Nabokov's ultimate ode to the king's game. A kind of post-modern salad of quirks and quizzes, the structure of the "novel" is a 999-line poem of heroic couplets by the late John Shade, a preface, an index, and most importantly explanatory commentary in the form of end-notes by Charles Kinbote (friend? neighbor? de
A kind of post-modern salad of quirks and quizzes, the structure of the "novel" is a 999-line poem of heroic couplets by the late John Shade, a preface, an index, and most importantly explanatory commentary in the form of end-notes by Charles Kinbote (friend?
The character-king of Charles Kinbote (Zembla's Charles X), is the great false move of the game: posing as the innocuous professor and neighbor of John Shade, we are tempted to believe what he tells us in his commentary, though as the narrative continues his harmless mask slips and slips, revealing the madman beneath.
Then the annotations end up telling his own story springing out from the times he shared with his friend, and his family - wife Sybil and daughter Hazel who committed suicide and the story is told in the second canto (the poem is divided into 4 cantos).The poem is excellent and it has quite a number of brilliant quotable lines.
Aside from the obviously telling what he feels about loving his wife of 40 years, John Shade (Nabokov) made references to his daughter who committed suicide in the last two lines and I could not help but feel the pain being a father myself.
Neko ko je vrlo moguće kralj iz neke vrlo moguće stvarne zemlje beži od neke vrlo moguće revolucije i vrlo moguće se zaljubljuje u matorog američkog pesnika.
Makar blizu mom ličnom dojmu te jeftine reči.Mislim da zato toliko i volim Nabokova.
Uzgred, vrlo simpatičan tip, čak i kad laže kako zine – baš zato što laže kako zine.
Nabokova volim i zato što ponekad nema rešenja.
Zato što kod njega ne treba tražiti alegorije, simbole i slične pizdarije (plus, to i u samom romanu kaže više puta, sad da li Kinbot ili Šejd ili Nabokov, svejedno je; a onda malo onako usput i pljune Frojda – jer zdravo je).
The thing you want to know in order to get started is whether you ought to read the poem, the one by Shade at the beginning of this book, or whether, with calm of mind, you might skip straight to the meat of the matter, the novel.
Well, to be honest and such, I’d have to give a strong recommendation to read the poem.
And certainly not as preparation for the novel.
But read enough of it somehow.
It won’t really work to excise or somehow simply skip the poem.
But what is really of utmost importance is that you also read the entirety of the Index.
After reading 'John Shade' for a time, ICan not help but think in rhyme. GrayCat sits on a sunken chair; Full of Spite and covr'd with mangy hair.Was that the phone? I listen at the door.Pause. Nothing. I resume vaccumingOnce more. And there's the wall ofSound, that nightly wall. FrogsCroak, the 'Yotes howl and frighten all.What torture and yet splendid pain, NabokovHas inflicted on my brain! Ludricous,I say; that I am pleased. When he'sleft me feeling used and thor'ghly teased.
Video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ejtaj...Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2017The most elegant literary experiment I've ever read (and sister, I've read my fair share); possibly the best too.
The poem itself is a lovely autobiographical piece written by the character John Shade, who as it turns out is not the true protagonist of the novel.
The real protagonist is not this well-loved and much lauded poet, but an acquaintance/neighbor of his, one Charles Kinbote, that gets the rights to publish the poem along with his extensive commentary.
The Foreward and Commentary, penned by the Kinbote character, is not as readily enjoyable and takes a bit longer to figure out what exactly is going on - this is not a straight-forward affair.
bu şiirin öncesinde şiiri yayınlayan kahramanımızın önsözü, sonrasında açıklamaları ve hazırladığı bir dizin var.
işimiz bu haliyle bile kolay değilken daha önsözde anlıyoruz ki şiirleri bize sunan-açıklayan bu kahramanımız tuhaf, güvenilmez bir anlatıcı.
açıklamalarına başladığımızda anlıyoruz ki şiiri açıklamaktan çok şiir üzerinden kendi hikayesini anlatıyor ve açıklamalarda biraz daha ilerlediğimizde anlıyoruz ki kendi hikayesini anlatmasının da ötesinde bir durumla karşı karşıyayız.
şiirde sayısız gönderme ve kelime oyunu, açıklamalarda hem ileriye hem geriye doğru yönlendirmeler var, dizin şiiri ve açıklamaları ayrıca tekrar tekrar okumaya yöneltiyor.
etkin, esaslı, yaratıcı okur, yeniden okuyandır,” diyen nabokov solgun ateş’te bize etkin okur olmanın, yaratıcı okur olmanın zorunlu bir uygulamasını yaptırıyor.
