https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7781.The_500_Hats_of_Bartholomew_Cubbins
I was able to read the sequel before this book, so I was expecting that this could be better. I prefer the sequel than this, but I still enjoyed the story. It's just that I don't think that I found any lesson after reading it.
Especially when it came to the Seuss books.She got so she could sniff out a potential literary masterpiece after she’d skimmed through only a few pages.And she had a passionate, freewheeling mind - just like Theodore Geisel - Dr. Seuss.
They must have heard her recommend Geisel to them too.Yes, she loved to talk books.
Especially GOOD books, like we do here mostly.
THIS - The 500 Hats - was one of his first, and one of the BEST.And, you know, I haven’t checked - but was Geisel also a mathematician?For there’s nothing like the algebra of exponentially mushrooming hats to make a mathematician chuckle.I can almost hear my mom roaring with laughter now, somewhere far, far above me from up in Heaven, when she thinks of Dr Seuss again...!
This book may be a bit too dark for smaller children, but older children will definitely enjoy this classic tale from Dr. Seuss.Dr. Seuss’ early book is not written in the traditional rhyming text that he has been known for, but is instead written in a splendid narrative that is told in an extremely exciting and effective way.
Parents might want to read this book first to see if their child could handle such intense subject matter.“The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins” is a wonderful tale that is both exciting and suspenseful for many children and will be enjoyed by many children for years to come.
Since I was 6, just learning to read on my own and going through my Dr. Suess phase, this has been my favorite Dr. Seuss story.
It does not have Dr. Seuss's easily parodied meter or a rhyme scheme.I don't know what the meaning of the story is.
If it has an overall meaning, its not nearly as easy to tease out as so many of Seuss's openly allegorical and more famous tales.
Bartholomew Cubbins has a family hat that he's quite willing to remove from his head to please the proud King Derwin.
Unfortunately for poor Cubbins, his hat is not nearly so willing to be removed.
There is barely any rhyme in the book and the illustrations are mostly black and white which is a complete shame since I love being captivated by Dr. Seuss illustrations.The story is about a young boy named Bartholomew Cubbins who is practically poor.
In the process the King wants all his hats and offers 500 gold coins and they live happily ever after.While I really enjoyed the storyline, I wish it could have been shorter and could at least had more rhyme to the story.
Dr. Seuss wasn't a great poet, but he had a way with words and told a good story, usually with a moral.
I like to think the good doctor influenced my poetry writing.
SEUSSby Alan CookIn the whimsical world of beloved Dr. SeussLive an elephant (faithful), a big-hearted moose,And creatures, the wildest that you ever saw,A grinch with a heart that's three sizes too small,A bustard, a lorax (he speaks for the trees),And prejudiced sneetches, with stars, if you please;There are 500 hats and a cat who wears one,A circus and zoo that are oodles of fun,And oobleck (be careful for what things you wish),Green eggs (you will like them) and colorful fish,And wonderful places like Solla Sollew,All dreamt by the Doctor for dreamers like you.
My students found this book morbid and boring."The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins is the story of a young peasant and his unjust treatment at the hands of King Derwin."
Bartholomew Cubbins lives on a farm.
He looks across the land to the castle and feels very small.
King Derwin lives in the castle and looks down toward the farms.
One day Bartholomew is walking from his farm to the town to sell cranberries.
King Derwin stops the precessional when he see Bartholomew with his hat still on.
The king becomes angry and demands Bartholomew Cubbins take his hat off.
Bartholomew reaches up again to remove his hat.
King Derwin has Bartholomew arrested and brought to the castle.Originally published in 1938, this Dr. Seuss book has very little rhyming.
Fun!
I may have read this one when I was young, but I didn't remember most of the details - except maybe when the hats started getting fancier with each one.
I seemed to remember that.I wanted an explanation for why Bartholomew suddenly couldn't take off his hat, but I did like that it was brought up again in the end, that no one "could ever explain how the strange thing had happened.
They only could say it just 'happened to happen' and was not very likely to happen again." This is one of the longer Dr. Seuss books.
Still, a fun story and well worth reading.
I was so surprised there was no rhyme scheme in this one when I first read it! I thought Dr. Seuss always rhymed. A silly little story dealing with the craziness of social convention and when power goes to the head. Strange, but funny.
I read this children book at the age of 24.
Why I decided to read book for children?
Because I heard that his books cause, that quite a lot of children were fond of reading.
There's no self-evident moral, so it's less boring and let children think about reasons of events.Addition of simple illustrations, with just three colours and highlighted main object of the story - make it possible to focus on the story, instead of drawings.Unfortunately, I'm not the best person to judge the language, because English is not my mother tongue, but I think that this book use language simple enough to be easy understandable by children and at the same time rich enough to not be boring and too childish.
I checked Goodreads and realized that we still had several more to read.
So I borrowed a few of them from our local library and we chose this one tonight.This story is different from what we've come to expect from the good doctor.
It's not filled with fantastic, crazy creatures.
It's actually one of the most straightforward stories I have ever seen of his.
It's an entertaining story, filled with cheek and wry humor.
I'm not sure what the message is, but it's fun to read aloud.
We really enjoyed reading it together.
I simply ADORE this book. Bartholomew just can't seem to catch a break! He takes his hat off in the presence of the king only to be taken to the castle for not doing so. What is up with that? Could it possibly be the fact that he just can't take off his hat? OR is it because one keeps appearing underneath every one he takes off. The hats are so pretty and they keep getting more & more eye-catching. One of my favorite Dr. Seuss books ever!!! =)
Great illustrations and great plot. In this story, Bartholomew Cubbins gets into quite a quandary when he takes off his hat to honor the King who is passing by and ends up having a hat somehow materialize atop his head. Naturally, the King is not amused by Bartholomew's apparent disrespect. Fortunately, 499 hats later, Bartholomew's head is finally bare. Love this Dr. Seuss story!
This was one of the first Dr. Seuss books I ever read, and it was a delight to re-read it. It's not in the well-known rhyming format we're accustomed to with Dr. Seuss, but it is full of wit, great pictures, and interesting characters.
A great little story about a boy with a hat he can't remove until...I enjoyed this story; it felt very much of its day. The illustrations were nice and there was hardly any rhyming. What rhyming there was I couldn't tell if it was accidental or not.
One of two non-rhyming books ever written by Dr. Seuss, and by far my favorite! (PS: the second non-rhyming book? Its sequel: Bartholomew & the Oobleck. Just FYI.)
A nicely written tall tale. A bit pointless but fun.
Ketika Bartholomew memakai 500 topi di kepalanya.... Tepatnya nggak memakai semuanya sih. Tapi Bartholomew dapat masalah ketika ia tidak bisa melepas topinya di depan raja! Berapa kalipun ia ambil topinya, tetap saja sebuah topi masih bertengger di kepalanya. Berbagai macam cara dicoba. Mulai dari cara biasa hingga luar biasa. Dari memanggil pemanah hingga penyihir istana. Dari orang jago hingga algojo.Lalu, berhasilkah raja melihat kepala telanjang Batholomew tanpa satupun topi bertengger di kepalanya? Temukan sendiri jawabannya.
4.5 starsI remember reading this book when I was very young and really loving it. Its plot is so absolutely creative and original.I am absolutely amazed that this book is not more well-known and thatit is does not have many more people that have read it.I am amazed that it does not have about a million ratings.Perhaps becauseit is an older book it was not as widely available in a lot of more modern libraries.
I just rediscovered this childhood favorite and wow. Still much favorite. And reading it allowed to fam is so much better."It happened to happen and was not very likely to happen again."
3.5Cute story. But I'm not really impressed.
I'd love for any one of them as art hanging on a wall.Hmmm, I don't think I like a king who gets so upset about one hat!
On the other hand, I like that the king finally sees the light, both with Bartholomew and that nasty little nephew of his.The moral of this story is about bullying and the abuse of power.
Sir Alaric is the Keeper of the King's Records and wears a ruler instead of a sword.
Genre: Fantasy/Sci-FiAwards: Grade Level: K-2Comments: I would use this book while celebrating Dr. Seuss' birthday.
I would bring it in because it has such a fun idea to the story, and the students would be able to keep guessing what would happen next.
After we finished reading, I would have them complete an activity showing me that they can put the story in order of what happened, because it is a long book.
This book can also let the students get creative and use art skills.
Students need a creative break sometimes and I think this is a great story to use it for.
The first straight prose book I've read by Dr. Seuss.I found it too long, too wordy, with a unoriginal setting and a plot that is uninspiring.After starting the the fantastic And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street, Dr. Seuss seems to have had a bad case of follow-up album not meeting expectations.
At first when I saw this Dr Seuss book WASN'T a rhyming book I thought that I wasn't going to like it, but it is a funny little story.
A power-mad King who demands a boy takes he hat off when in the presence of a powerful man as he, the problem is taking of your hat is not as easy as you'd think it would be.
The illustrations are very nice too, all shades of black and grey with the bright red hat standing out.
One of Dr Seuss's more interesting and less insane books.
I Rate this book a 4/5 stars.
This story was fairly amusing, it had strange little elements that made you want to turn the page to see what would happen next. While I thought it was an interesting book, it was just missing a certain something to make it a book you would want to read over and over again.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
An enjoyable tale of a young man whose hat has a seemingly eternal life of its own, spawning hat after hat and getting him into trouble with the king. I like these early Seuss books in which a simple story is told well and in a prose style; sometimes the rhyming and the weird and wonderful creatures featured in most of Seuss's books can be all a bit too much.
Fantasy children's book.
