https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39280444-speak
It's revealed that during the summer Melinda called the cops on a party and it got busted - a few people got arrested, and now everyone hates her.
It isn't until the middle of the story that we learn what really happened at the party, but Anderson gives us a big fat hint in this scene where Melinda and her lab partner dissect a frog in biology class:"Our frog lies on her back.
The main reason I loved this book is because I was very, very similar to Melinda in high school.
2017 Reread: I read this for my young adult literature class along with scholastic articles about the book, which added a great new layer to my interpretation of the novel. Original Review: I've owned this book for years and never got around to reading it until yesterday. I'm happy I did because this was one of the best books that I have read lately. Speak was very well paced and I never found the story to be dragging or boring. I loved the character development and Melinda's voice throughout the story. (Original rating: 5/5 stars)
I really wish the content of this story was more widespread (though I do seem to be a little late in reading this one) because I think it’s so important people know the sensitive topics they are reading about.
I think people should know the content of this book before reading, if only to help protect those who may be deeply affected by the events of this novel, where reading unprepared could cause a lot of harm.I really loved this book and would definitely recommend it!
I literally wanted to hop into the sea of words and tell Melinda Sordino " I'll be your friend!
Not all book jackets can boast that, so let's give the jacket cover artist a round of applause!!!
The visual person inside of me had to let it out.Melinda is never really described in detail of how she look likes, so you get the sense the author wanted to make her as relatable as possible, and that she is.
If you like this book read You Don't Know Me. Not quite the same style but definitely the same feel.
It’s not pretty to see and it does make for tragic moments, but they’re all part of the process she creates to survive high school.I really think that the outline of the book is fairly original.
It makes us believe in Melinda and hope that everything turns out for the best for her.
The writing makes the story flow in a perfect rhythm for this type of story… lent, that’s for sure, but deep and reflective.A couple of things that could have been better: the secondary characters, Melinda’s parents and the tragedy around IT itself.
Surely because Melinda prefers limiting her interactions with her parents.And the last thing that let me down is the details around IT.

BTW I recommend following her reviews.Meredith wrote this:Should Laurie Halse Anderson's book "Speak" be placed in the adult section because it deals with rape?
Unlike Mist and Fury and Paper princess the author and her publishing company didn't try to pretend that this book is something different that what it is: Edgy, dark and uncomfortable.Yes. This book isn't a fluffy happy reading, yet I remember enjoying Melinda Sordino's journey back when I was 16 YO.
(hide spoiler)]I know the topic of this book might scare some people away, but I highly recommend it, specially for high school readers.
You will undergo something that overtakes you, that consumes every waking thought, that fills you with fear and changes every aspect of your life and still you cannot talk about it.
That party changed everything for Melinda.
Her grades are sinking and her parents are furious over it and she can’t explain why.
And except for caring about her grades, her parents aren’t all that concerned about their daughter.
At some point, Melinda finds herself in a situation wherein she realizes that must find her voice.
Speak by Laurie Halse Anderson is full of emotion.
Let me explain:Although I loved the fact that Melinda finally finds her voice and a way to express herself, I felt as if the story was wrapped up a little too quickly and too neatly.
Let's be honest, that ending was more than a little unrealistic.
You can't simply put a pretty bow on the end of this novel, otherwise the entire tale becomes trite.
Having been through this myself and sadly listened to countless stories similar (and worse) than mine, I can say that 9 times out of 10 you don't get closure, let alone retribution.
3.5/5This is such an important book for the content and message it presents. The writing was fantastic and Melinda was such an interesting character to read. I didn't totally LOVE everything about it, but overall it was a fantastic book.
Melinda Sordino, sarcastically witty, bright, and courageous, is very memorable character.
A freshman in High School, ....
Melinda doesn’t understand her own situation clearly enough to speak out for herself.
She’s an average normal girl dealing with many of the same issues that many teenagers deal with - self esteem - changing schools from middle school to High School - changing friends - and family dynamics- except ....back in 8th grade ....
just before beginning High School — Melinda was raped at a party one night.
There is so much honesty .....so well written....(who doesn’t read this book in just one sitting?)....characters that are powerfully drawn....and a gripping plot....This story touches every part of us.
Reference information: Title: SpeakAuthor: Laurie Halse AndersonPublisher: Penguin Group Year: 1999# of pages: 198 Genre: intense read Reading level: 9th grade Interest level: late high schoolPotential hot lava: Thoughts of suicide and rape.General response/reaction:This book was so moving. Yes, it was difficult to read and very intense, but it was extremely good! I sort of knew how it was going to end because I cheated and looked it up, but it was still so good to read this book. I was glad tha
I think that this book can be very therapeutic for many students.Subjects, Themes, and Big Ideas:•	Trust•	Friendship•	Pain•	Suffering•	Growth•	StrengthCharacters:•	Melinda – main character, narrator, was raped when she was 13, goes through her first year of high school as an outcast because she cannot fully grow past the tragedy in her life, expresses herself through art•	Heather – a girl who befriended Melinda at the beginning and then blew her off at the end•	Ivy – an old friend from middle school, in art class with Melinda, at first was mad at Melinda but then warmed up to her by the end•	Rachel – Melinda’s ex-best friend, hangs out with the exchange students at school, starts dating Andy Evans (the boy who raped Melinda)•	Andy Evans – the boy who raped Melinda, has a history of doing the same thing to every girl he meets.Plot summary:Melinda is starting high school with all the problems imaginable.
Hmmmm I can definitely see how important this book is and would have been at the time of its publication, but the thing is, I was bored until the last 30 pages. I felt really disconnected to the story and I don't know why. I am so glad that books like this exist in the YA genre though, and that this one was around a long time ago because these things happen and really do need to be discussed. Such an important message.
"Speak" is about Melinda Sordino, an angst-filled freshman who is hated by all of her "best friends" because she called the cops during the end of the summer senior party.
When what really happened at the senior party is revealed, it will be easy, although painful, to understand Melinda's unbreakable silence.I just finished my second read through of the book, and I still loved it.
Anyway, "Speak" is a novel I think all teenagers should read.
Melinda's voice, although cynical and outspoken, was dead-on and as a teenager I felt like I totally connected with her through the entire book.
I know. A ton of people liked this book. I'm giving this crap a one star though. I never did connect with this books main character. I finally was to the point where I didn't give a shit anymore when the big reveal came about why she was having so many problems. I felt somewhat sorry for her then but it still just didn't pull through enough for me.
The next time I looked at the clock it was five in the morning and I was devouring the last lines of the novel.
It is dangerously, fantastically gripping, not necessarily because the plot is so amazing, but because Anderson gets Melinda's voice so very, very right.
Melinda is such a thoughtfully rendered portrait of a smart, funny, terribly depressed teenager that I was hooked from her very first lines.
To me, the actual story was almost extraneous—the plot itself is a bit unwieldy—but Melinda's anxiety, isolation, and desperate attempts to cope with the horrors of adolescence were so real it was spooky.
There are no doubts that it is a very important book for the subject it deals with.
We need so many more books on this subject but I want them to actually “speak”.So something happened at a party to Melinda and she stops speaking.
She is not popular in school; in fact her friends have started to cut her.
And that’s where my issue with this book lies.
Neither the parents nor the friends.
This book could have delivered a strong message but I didn’t do so, at least for me.
Updating to add a trigger warning which I really should've before *TRIGGER WARNING FOR RAPE*I debated for a long time what to rate this and decided on 4 stars because this book honestly perfectly captures the thoughts and feelings that run through your head when you go through a situation like Melinda's. This book was extremely hard for me to read as it hit very, very close to home and for that reason, I just couldn't give it 5 stars.
This is a very powerful book: it deals with rape and depression in one of the most realistic and poignant ways I've read.
I rated it 4.5.The only reason I didn't give it a 5 was because I could not see myself in Melinda.
I could still absolutely empathize with Melinda, I completely understood and appreciated her.One of the things that I most enjoyed was the writing..
A few of the quotations I flagged because they 'Spoke' to me:'Maybe I'll be an artist if I ever grow up.''She must be a great writer if the school board is afraid of her.''Instead of multicultural, we have no-cultural.''I feel bad that I didn't fold more shirts for her.''I just want anyone to like me.
greg loooooved this book and said it made him wish he had written his own angst-books in high school, but i was a teenage girl and he wasnt, and this just didnt do it for me.
its not poorly written at all, i just have never liked books that were about clique-y high schools because i couldnt relate to them at all.
maybe i just went to a smaller, or a nicer, high school.
but i can definitely see the value of this for a teen reader, and i really liked the authors note on censorship at the end.
so a high three.
For the most part.Mostly the end.
The majority of the book was pretty bland.
I had a voice in my head pestering me and saying; "Oh my god, who the fuck cares?!" Thankfully, it paid off in the end.
The ending really made the book for me.
Though I wish Melinda had given Andy (aka IT) a good kick in the balls.
www.youtube.com/watch?v=DaXd2AmWtPI&a...I'm sorry, I'm having WAY too much fun with this!
But when you watch it, it's actually quite close to a situation in the book.
The one and only Andy Ev-"*KICK*Melinda: "Gotcha right in the balls!" :DOkay, I'm done now.
If you haven't read this book and don;t know why it is Melinda doesn't speak (much, except in the journal of her ninth grade year, which is the novel Speak, you may not want to continue reading this review.Perennial fave in my YA course, and an important moment in the history of Young Adult Literature.
This is not a perfect story (I have some small issues with the resolution of the story, which conveniently involves a field hockey team in the right place at the right time), but it is an important one for schools and those who work with young people, and teens---both boys and girls--who need to know what rape is and what speaking truth to power is all about.
I just re-read SPEAK for the first time since it came out, so you know I'd forgotten the details of the story.
And Melinda's parents seem to regard everything she doesn in this year as deliberately generated disappointments.The story is that of Melinda finding her way back to herself over the year, from sliding downhill into total apathy to fighting her way to her voice and to justice.
Students were asked to read this book for a bullying unit though it is more about the injustice of rape (it does not address the particular damage of rape).
It is the story of a young girl who is so disconnected from everyone that she is unable to speak after being assaulted until her rapist targets her ex best friend.
Not her friends, not her parents, not the high school counselor, principal, or her teachers.
It is not an example of how to protect oneself and probably not a book that lends itself to class discussion in middle school.
I am trying to imagine 12/13 year old students discussing rape and ambivalent parents & teachers.
"When people don't express themselves, they die one piece at a time." Silence dominates Melinda Sordino’s freshman year in Merryweather High School. A recent traumatic experience that led to a very complicated misunderstanding sent a sudden collapse on her being. Aside from being completely mute in public, Melinda’s private and social life is in ruins. Slowly, she began to lose interest in everything, including her family and school. If possible, she also wants to lose the memory of that trauma
Silence dominates Melinda Sordino’s freshman year in Merryweather High School.
Aside from being completely mute in public, Melinda’s private and social life is in ruins.
Slowly, she began to lose interest in everything, including her family and school.
Secrets and stigma are the most prominent theme on Melinda’s account of her freshman year.
The first person narration of Speak is its best character.
And Melinda’s monologues drove a great impact, making it very personal for every reader.
Encouraging our children to speak up boldly (but respectful) without fear of being punished or humiliated may be their best way to survive and lead a healthy life.
Look, I'm not saying sketches, oil and print making can't be cutting edge, but Jane's A+ art works make me want to throw up.
Her art teacher is meant to be a bohemian liberal artist, but I can see why he ended up teaching high school.
To be fair you can't judge a work by reading vague descriptions of its visual composition, but drawing a depressed tree is not conceptual art, and whining about corporate fascism doesn't make you an artist either.
And yes the ending is disappointing, but I'm so glad Jane is done with her anger management issue.
My intuition that I will not regret reading this book did not fail me because this book tells of an inspiring and touching story of a young girl, Melinda who lost herself, her confidence and her ability to speak after she was raped by the most popular senior a year ago.
Because of her inability to speak, Melinda loses her best friend who thought that she was betrayed by Melinda during her best friend's party when Melinda called 911 but was unable to tell what really happened.
I read this in high school. When I was in high school.Now I reread it, at 30.It's not only perennial. It's not only still powerful. But this is a masterclass in construction, in voice, and in story telling.Damn good. DAMN good. But how I wish it weren't still relevant.
An amazing, and inspiring read!Initial thoughts:1. Melinda's voice is snarky, sarcastic, and cynical. I loved it! (I was conflicted about liking her voice because I didn't know if this was innate to Melinda's personality, or transformed after the party).2. I really liked reading the day to day aspects of Melinda's school year. Great and different moments, from the sad and frustrating, to the fun and inspiring. Not overly dramatic.3. Beautifully written. Heartfelt and emotional.4. Loved the symbolism, and how it paralleled Melinda's character.5. Realistic to the high school experience. Down-to-earth.Check out my full video review here!
Speak is a challenging novel to read as it tackles sexual abuse, depression, censorship and bullying.
I'm thankful for someone like him because he helped Melinda find the strength and courage to speak up.
Melinda may not express herself verbally but she did through an artwork and Mr. Freeman recognized her feelings.
Rachel was the former best friend and I crossed my fingers that one day she and Melinda mend the gap between them (the ending of this book is one step).
Despite of it, I like the message of this book: Never be afraid to speak up.
