https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8973286-henrietta-sees-it-through
Just as witty and entertaining as the first volume. A needed respite in my reading.
This is the sequel to “Henrietta’s War,” and again it takes the form of fictional letters, written by Henrietta Brown – wife to the local doctor and mother to grown up children Bill and the Linnet – who spent the war in a ‘safe area’ of Devon, in the small rural community where she lived.
Henrietta suffers when a ‘Good Book Drive’ means she must give up some of her precious and beloved volumes, feeling “like a mother delivering her children to an orphanage.” Everyone is a little tired now and have to keep giving each other support.
Anyone who needs their spirits lifted should read this book. Funny, poignant, and inspiring.
I just read this again and feel like it deserves a better review.
For some perverse reason I have a much easier time articulating why I didn't like a book.
When I love one I just keep spluttering "It's so good!
I really loved it!" ....
So, in this book Henrietta continues her letters to her childhood friend, Robert who is fighting in WWII.
In one chapter she is determined to corner and kiss an elderly neighbor at a New Years party who does NOT want to play the game.
Truly, I love this book.
Henrietta’s letters to an old friend paint of picture of British life on the home front during the Second World War. Henrietta is a doctor’s wife in a small town.
Her witty letters amuse the reader with tales of family, friends and neighbors and include the author’s charming drawings of their adventures.
While always written with a light touch, the letters reveal the difficulties of living in a country weary of war and the deprivations that accompany it.
Although it probably helps to have read the first book, Henrietta’s War, Joyce Dennys is such a fine writer that the reader quickly becomes familiar with the characters and invested in their stories.
Dennys was frustrated during WWII; frustrated with being "the doctor's wife" rather than her own person, with her role as a housewife, and mostly with being made to feel guilty about not "contributing" more to the war effort because she was an older & provincial woman.
For example, in one scene, an Admiral's wife has learned in the morning that her son was killed in action, but she keeps it to herself and goes on to play in a charity croquet tournement in the afternoon, rather than spoiling the event by bowing out.
In realtà entrambi i volumi raccolgono una serie di lettere fittizie ad un fittizio amico scritte e pubblicate (sulla rivista The Sketch) da Joyce Dennys durante la seconda guerra mondiale.
Il profilo dell'autrice sul sito della casa editrice inglese che ha recentemente ripubblicato questi due titoli recita che Henrietta era diventata così importante per Joyce Dennys da farle dire: "When I stopped doing the piece after the war, I felt quite lost.
To be fair, she also has a Devon character gleefully and maliciously pulping valuable books with the golden excuse that it is part of the war effort.
All of these elitist characters are desperate for life to go back to pre-war times, not just for safety for them and their loved ones but for their material comfort and social standing, and the hint of depression behind the jolly facade suggests they see their wealth, rank and privilege slipping away from them.
But while I could see this book has humour and intelligence in it, snobbery is snobbery and I didn’t enjoy it as much as I had hoped I would.
This book stood at the junction of two of my interests- WWII and epistolary novels which made it a really enjoyable read for me. What impressed me about the book was the author's ability to keep things light (even frivolous) and produce a slice of life depiction of life in an English village, given the time and age it was was written in. You recognize and relate to several of the characters despite the time gone by since the writing of this book.A surprisingly rollicking, uplifting, hilarious (aided by the comic illustrations added by the author herself) WWII read.
Charming and poignant, snippets of domestic life during WWII in the British country side. I have read it many times and loved it. This time I listed to to an audio version, and the reader almost ruined it, with bizarre emphasis on certain words, booming, ludicrous and childlike voices for the men, and just not at all like the recording of the earlier book, a different narrator.
I will definitely review it, so the Goodreads team will know I am a good and dependable "first-reads" reviewer.Jan 21, 2011 Just received this book in the mail today.
They were wildly popular with the British people at the time of original publication because of their humorous view of the "home front" situations people in rural England faced everyday of the war.
The publishers of this paperback compilation of those letters from "Henrietta," the Bloomsbury Group, evidently had hopes that people from another time would also enjoy reading these humorous incidents from the daily life of the country folk in Devonshire, England during World War II.
Henrietta Sees It Through proves just as witty and charming as the previous volume, Henrietta's War. Written in the form of letters from Henrietta to her childhood friend (now turned soldier), Robert, with amusing little cartoons strewn throughout, I've found this series to be an absolute comfort and delight.
Henrietta is a very sensitive sort, more easily affected by things than most, and I find it especially interesting to read about the war from this point of view as I'm exactly the same.
It's heartening to hear tales of survival from Highly Sensitive sorts in such grisly, overwhelming times, and I think this is why it remains a comfort for me.
I have read this three times and love it.
But this book isn't about Hitler as such, it is about a normal village in England and the residents who live their; how they live through and see the war from the home front.
giving you a small insight into what it must have been like for normal people at the time.
And it also makes you realise how little people new of what was really going on in Europe, the concentration of the narrator is really on home things and she is only slightly aware of how truly vicious the situation was in the war zone (Europe).
"Henrietta Sees It Through" is the sequel to another book in the Bloomsbury Group series, "Henrietta's War." The two novels, written by Joyce Dennys during the second World War, are actually compilations of "letters" written from Henrietta to her childhood friend, Robert.
But the novel isn't just a light read - it also portrays the difficulties of life on the British home front during WWII, albeit with a slightly comedic slant.
"Henrietta Sees It Through" is a great read for anyone interested in World War Two, British literature, or just humorous novels.Book received through GoodReads' First Look program.
Lady B., the portly widow who hangs out with Henrietta.Faith, the village flirt.The Conductor, Faith's husband....Among many others.This is daily life during the war for those living in the country.There were moments of laughter and tears while the charicters try to keep it together mentally and emotionally.
While the end of the war is a happy time, there is also a note of sadness that the closeness of the characters achieved during the war may be coming to an end as is the way of life they had come to know.I loved this book.
The same "letter to a solider abroad" format is used for this second book, with the major theme being the stresses and extreme guilt placed upon the women left behind from the British government.Dennys gets across the war weariness well, especially in the March 8, 1944 letter where "Henrietta" explains how everyone in the village is at the end of their ropes, with the closest of friends snapping at each other.
Henrietta's (fictional) letters to her childhood friend were published as a newspaper column throughout the war.
This is the second batch, after Henrietta's War: News from the Home Front 1939-1942.They contain more of Joyce Dennys's delightful illustrations and the same colourful characters.
Some get bad news.I think this is a realistic picture of what life was like for many people on the home front.
This is a seaside town, not a port or industrial city, so they have evacuees, not heavy bombing, but everyone is still affected by the war.
It focuses on the happenings and the people of the Devonshire village in which they both live, not on the actual battles or events of the wars.
It covers rations, salvage drives, clothing coupons, American Blue Star Mothers, loss of sons, and even the devastation of getting a "ladder" in your silk stocking because there are no more to be had.It is full of quirky characters and events.
I love books that are character studies of quirky small town people.
It was as the reader is watching what is happening instead of being a part of the events.Overall, it is a fun little read.
It is wonderful that this publisher is unearthing some of these forgotten mid-20th century books that would otherwise be forgotten - most of what is currently out there from the WWII era, at least on the American side, is focused on dramatic episodes from the war itself, so it is rare to get a glimpse of what life was like on the home front in England.
I highly recommend it to anyone with an interest in history - but really, even if you're not a big history reader, this is so enjoyably written and goes so quickly that I can't imagine anyone not liking it.
I was worried at first because this is the second book, the first being Henrietta's War, but the episodic nature meant it wasn't a problem.
I enjoyed this one so much that I am planning to get a copy of the first.I agree with other reviewers that if you like the Provincial Lady stories, you will enjoy this one, although the Lady B's are totally different people.Some of the illustrations did not get reproduced very well.
It also took me a while to figure out the names of Henrietta's help; I couldn't figure out why she referred to church services like that.I'm glad the Bloomsbury group is bringing these kind of books back into print!
This is the sequel to Henrietta's War and follows the correspondence of Henrietta on village life during WWII as the war progresses.
While there are still the humorous touches of village life and dealing with the privations of war, it is clear that the war has taken some toll on their lives.
Lady B, despite her age, keeps soldiering on, and lifts Henrietta's spirits from time to time.
The villagers soldier on through the war, mostly keeping a stiff upper lip, and occasionally having a treat of gin, taking the good times where they may, and managing through the rest.
I'm trying to decide if I like it more than the first book, Henrietta's War, or if I just feel more comfortable liking it since most of the characters are familiar friends by this point.
(Perhaps because this book doesn't publish every single letter originally published for the magazine these were originally written for during the war years.) Once again the setting is a small country village, the narrator is a doctor's wife, Henrietta Brown.
The book deals not only with rations and war-worries but with everyday life like gossip, weddings, baby showers, dog shows, squabbles between "friends."
This is the second of two books that are comprised of letters written by Henrietta to her dear friend, Robert, during WWII.
Henrietta is an incredibly likable character who is trying to cheer up Robert with stories of what is happening on the home front.
Yet Henrietta, who is the wife of the local doctor, looks for the humor in the every day and isn't afraid to make a bit of a fool of herself for the sake of her friends and the war effort.
Lady B, who is an elderly woman and Henrietta's closest friend, is also a delightful character and normally determined to look on the bright side.
The local villagers couldn't fight Hitler directly but they did what good they could by weeding gardens,raising funds, taking in evacuees and generally not letting the war get the best of them.
Written as a series of letters from Henrietta, the village doctor's wife, to her childhood friend Robert who is off fighting somewhere, Henrietta Sees it Through is best read only an entry or two at a time.
Fortunately there is an earlier volume of letters, Henrietta's War, that I haven't read yet.
It seemed like it would be perfect vacation reading for me, and it was.
Written during WWII, it chronicles village life as seen by married, empty nester Henrietta.
Written as a series of letters to a childhood friend and neighbor serving at arms, Henrietta vents the frustrations of war time living, but never wallows in them, always poking fun, but never losing sight of what is important.
I can see why these letters were so appealing when originally published as magazine pieces during the war, and they have not lost their appeal.
I'd like to read the first of these books, Henrietta's War.
This is a compilation of a series of brief, morale-boosting newspaper pieces written during the Second World War. The humour is mild, mid-century and middle class, and though Dennys occasionally does acknowledge the stifling, fearful atmosphere of the times, it's rarely for long. Had the comical aspect of the book more bite, or the characterisation more emotional depth, I think I would have liked this much more. As it is, while I found it an interesting historical artefact, the amiable charm of Dennys' writing was not enough to overcome the work's propagandistic origins.
Written as letters to a friend fighting in Europe during WWII, "Henrietta Sees It Through" follows Henrietta Brown, her family, and friends through the trials and tribulations of wartime England. Such a sweet book, it was slightly reminiscent of P.G. Wodehouse, though Henrietta and her friends are not quite as mischievous as Bertie Wooster and his friends. A very enjoyable read, even if you've not read the first volume (as I hadn't).Note: I received a copy of this book from the publisher, as part of the LibraryThing Early Reviewers program.
I won this book in a Goodreads First Reads giveaway. I have enjoyed this book very much. The characters are just delightful and feel like friends. I particularly loved the chapter where Henrietta is asked to donate books for the Red Cross and is then told that they will be made into pulp. The outcome is so funny, but totally understandable for any book lover. It's a good look at life in England during the war.
.Henrietta Brown is the doctor’s wife in a small English village during WW II. She and her family and friends carry on with their lives and duties during that difficult time. Dennys is a wonderful portrayer of human nature. I would be remiss if I didn’t mention the delightful line drawing illustrations that are scattered throughout the book bringing the characters even more to life. Along with her previous book Henrietta’s War, be prepared not to be able to put these wonderful books down.
As World War II continues, the residents of Henrietta's little Devonshire village face harder challenges, and some tragic losses. They also meet the Americans who are now stationed in their part of England, getting ready for the invasion of France. Petty bickering threatens some friendships, but in the end their inherent goodness and courage give them strength to win through to the end of the war.
