https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/858494.Angus_Lost
When I was five I had a little black Scotch terrier named Angus. He also got lost*. But he did not follow the milk man home.*When I was 19 my father told me that he had in fact given my dog away because it was too much work to take care of. But for the intervening 14 years I believed that Angus got out because I left the front door open while sweeping the steps.
I love reading this book aloud to my children. They always insist that I make exaggerated dog barks, goat "baas", owl whoots, and car honks which makes reading it aloud really fun. I like the message this book teaches as well. Angus grows disconnected with all of the same stuff he is surrounded by all winter. So he leaves home for some adventure. Angus soon learns that all of the "same" stuff is really not so bad.
3* art4* story4* noises - (woof, grrruf, baaaa, honk, whoo-whoo, rattle-rattle-clink-clink)
Angus, the indomitable and ever curious little Scottish Terrier returns in his third book, this time seeking adventure outside the safe confines of his home. He escapes through the yard gate and goes out into the world at large. He meets some old and new friends, escapes danger in the streets, and manages to find his way back home in the end. A delightful story. My favorite part is at the end, when Angus returns home, the Ducks from the first book are shown in their yard next door to Angus' home.
My three-year-old son absolutely loves these books. Angus reminds me a lot of Curious George. It's cute how he goes chasing after things he thinks he wants, and how the books are written from his perspective. My son really enjoyed Angus Lost, but Angus and the Ducks is still his favorite (and mine).
The look on the cat's face on the final page is classic!
my mommy used to read this to me and I like it because he meets a lot of friends on his walk and then he finds his home. I read this by myself.
A little dog learns to appreciate home by getting lost for a day. Simple story by the same author as The Story of Ping.
This is tremendously exciting and full of incident.
Great illustrations, even when just the black & white sketches.
Angus Lost by Marjorie Flack is the third book featuring the curious, feisty Scottie named Angus, which was preceded by Angus and Ducks and Angus and the Cat.Bored with Winter, ever curious Angus wonders about "MANY THINGS, including where the MILK MAN came from, where the WIDE ROAD went to, and what kind of animals CARS are." Slipping throught the gate one Winter day, Angus emerges on the WIDE ROAD where he could see no end.
This 1932 creation with the feisty black dog who gets lost, interacts with animals, and comes home is appealing, and a successful read-aloud with a group or one on one.
Angus Lost by Marjorie Flack (Farrar, Strauss & Giroux 1932) (Fiction – Children's). Angus is, appropriately enough, a Scottie, and his curiosity leads him into adventures that will be unsettling to the youngest readers. When he accidentally becomes lost and it is getting dark, the illustrations blend perfectly with the narrative to create a real sense of longing. My rating: 7.5/10, finished 1963.
This one's for the littles that want to read a book but you're not sure about their attention span. It's cute, classic and appealing!Ages: 3 - 5**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website: The Book Radar.
When Angus was in the house, he wanted to go and find a new house because he didn't want to see all the old stuff in the house. Then he went out the gate. He found another dog. They wanted to run in a circle but the other dog was faster than Angus. Then he found a goat but the goat was held by a chain so he couldn't run. Angus found a milk man.[reviewed by a 6 year old, typed by his mama]
Angus gets a chance to explore the big wide world - which is a little too big and wide when it comes time to find his way home again. My heart ached for him - the way the words are presented for emphasis, the illustrations...all so perfect. This series really is perfect all the way around. Do pick them up with your children - and be sure to read them in order!
Angus books are cute and funny, especially if you're a young child. Both the 7-yr-old and 5-yr-old loved it (and the 11-yr-old was casually hanging on the back of the couch while I read, trying not to look interested but his eyes were glued to the book).I think Angus and the Cat and Angus and the Ducks are funnier, but if your library has this, it's well worth reading once or twice.
Why not 5 stars? These books are all cute. I don't remember why I picked this one to look up specifically, but I know they were a new thing in my consciousness since I've been older, not something I knew when I was little. Anyway, the youngest sibling liked this one and anyone should.
Another installment in the Angus saga. This time he wanders outside his fence in the winter and meets other animals, a car, gets lost in the snow, and has to follow the milk man home. MicroMort and I love reading this simple story together.
Angus, the little Scottie dog, is off on another adventure. He's tired of the same old things and desires to explore and see all the things he's been curious about. It's a fun journey, but when he realizes he has gotten lost, he determines to find a way home--to the best place after all.
Not on 1000 Good Books site but would be on their level 1-3 like the other Angus book they have listed. Love all the Angus books!
My three year-old really likes this book. I told her what milk-men were. She had no idea, of course. 04.05.08
Will poor Angus ever learn. He again get lost because he gets tired of being in the same house day after day. This book demonstrates to young readers the value of being happy with where you are.
this was a surprising favorite for both me and lib
Angus is much-loved at our house.If you can read it aloud to your favorite child, in a Scottish accent, well... all the better.
How my children loved this book when they were little.
Angus has a little adventure but cleverly finds his way home.
Going out for an adventure is fun, but home is always best!
When it was amazing, I liked it. I think he went through a tunnel and he was back home. When he was home he still saw his cat, milk man's cat.
This is a story I read as a child and remembered unto adulthood. It's a simple little story, but a sweet one.
46 months - Simple story about a curious dog. O hasn't requested multiple reads which is unusual for a book about a dog so I'd say it wasn't a big hit. I liked the older style of illustrations.
