https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10877.Generation_of_Swine

Never better than when he's at his most vitriolic, the Iran/Contra scandal and the Presidential campaign would give him plenty of material - especially when it came to George Bush Snr:"...a truly evil man, a truthless monster with the brains of a king rat and the soul of a cockroach, is about to be sworn in as President of the United States for the next four years...And he will bring his whole gang with him, a mean network of lawyers and salesmen and pimps who will loot the national treasury, warp the laws, mock the rules and stay awake twenty-two hours a day looking for at least one reason to declare war, officially, on some hapless tribe in the Sahara or heathen fanatic like the Ayatollah Khomeini."Based on this little jaunt through the decade of "Huge brains, small necks, weak muscles and fat wallets...", I think it might be high time for a re-read of all his other books too.**Also posted at Randomly Reading and Ranting**
As far as the actual subject matter goes, this book runs through the mid-80's and made me realize that the only vaguely political writing I've read from that time period are a pile of Doonesbury Treasuries.
Call me a philistine, but I'm not reading this stuff to get schooled in 80's politics.
We are, after all, professionals." ('Buffalo Gores a Visitor,' p 30.) Yes, the majority of this book is a rumination on the dead zone that was Reagan's second term, and many great tangents and one-liners alike are brought on by Thompson's appropriately apocalyptic view of that handful of years.
The best thing about this book for me, besides reading HST for the first time, was that it covered the 80's.
Most of my friends thought he was a criminal.
It is amaizingly sad to read how Thompson expected Iran Contra to be treated like the major criminal enterprise that it was- a criminal enterprise carried out by the highest powers in Washington.
A criminal enterprise that he expected would result in the disgrace of the Reagan admin and the end of George H.W. Bush's political career- if not a prison sentence.
For all the attention given to his outrageous behavior, HST sure was perceptive about politics. This book focuses on his mid-80's output, and for my money, a lot of this still holds true.
Thought this book was great!
It's obvious that Hunter had deteriorated somewhat at this stage (it was a known fact even then) so anyone who goes into reading this should expect it be, what seems like, anyway, crazed ramblings of a guy who'd been completely washed up, thrashed around, chewed, swallowed, digested, regurgitated and spat out by a life of drugs and politics.
Good book to just glance through; you can open at any chapter and just start reading.
A pocket book for the strange.
Will definitely be going back to this book from time to time.
As far as HST goes, this collection is kind of weak. It's less like the savage HST seen in The Great Shark Hunt or Kingdrom of Fear and more like classic Thompson encased in murky lucite.Unless you simply must read as much HST as you can, you're better off re-reading The Great Shark Hunt, pausing occasionally to quote Coleridge or state that someone "stomped the terra"
This is a very bizarre and misleading three stars that I’m giving the book, Generation of Swine by Hunter S.
It’s misleading for a number of reasons, the biggest being that when you have a little over 100 pieces that were presumably originally written for periodicals of all stripes (the book doesn’t say where they were originally published) taken out of context and thrown together in a book, and when some of them are superb, some average and some terrible, you do the math and somehow, you come out with an unflashy, three-star experience.
Granted, even these are more fun to read than your average political journalist (who, but Hunter Thompson can get away with a weekly column labeling politicians Swine of the Week and still be taken seriously?).
His Generation of Swine: Tales of Shame & Degradation in the '80's, aka Gonzo Papers Volume 2, is even more relevant today than when it was written in the waning days of the Reagan Presidency and the Iran-Contra Scandal.What Hunter Thompson could have made of Donald J.
Trump with his tiny hands and his mantra, "You're fired!" What a model for the leader of the Free World (so to speak)!
I see a pair of tiny handcuffs in his future, with a one-way bus-ticket to Palookaville.Today's politics have brought me closer to Thompson, and I will probably read a lot more of him in the days to come.
The insanity and manic energy that fueled a generation to believe they could change the world was crashing and nobody gave voice to the fears, anger and frustration better than The Good Doctor Thompson.
The light that shone so brightly a decade before had begun to dim by the mid-eighties, which is where our book opens.
His instincts were still as sharp as razor but like all great rockstars (never mind that his instrument was the English language) his output slowed in his second decade of fame.
I bet they made copies of the articles and passed to their friends and loved ones: "HST calls me a swine in this latest one, Mum!", "Oh, I'm so proud!
NIXON IN '88.""If Ben Franklin and Tom Jefferon had been nickled and dimed to death by lawyers and bimbos and preachers, we might still be some kind of rich and stolid British colony like Canada – or just another continuous new-world experiment in mutated democratic giantism like Brazil.""Well ...
Pintos exploding and a whole line of new vans catching fire whenever you turn on the radio...
His prose is explosive, bizarre, and shrewd, as he castigates the American political figures of the time with outlandish visions of violence and public disgrace.Here Thompson is writing at the time of the Iran-Contra scandal.
This is a good topic for his essays: his writing thrives when fueled by moral / political outrage, and Iran-contra was something that looked to be the next Watergate.
It's interesting to watch the scandal develop and then fade through his eyes.Thompson loved politics for the same reasons he did sports: a fascination with winners and losers, analyzing their plays, calling the outcome (and making bets).
I still think the trademark HST is there to be found, it just takes a little more digging to find it at this point in his career (and it takes some legit literary excavation by the time you get to Hey Rube).
There are multiple columns in this collection (especially when Thompson focuses his energy on lashing the Democratic Party) where his voice is clear and poignant as in Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail.However, on the whole, this is a repetitive mess of columns that, to the unfamiliar reader, could come off as the ramblings of a degenerate gambler.
Long story short, the book I really wanted to read today was Warchild by Karen Lowachee, but I didn't want to wear it down by taking it with me on the train and took this one instead.
It's the last time ever I read Hunter Whatever Thompson, nay it's the last time I even come near his stuff.
Like the stuff about the killing of the fox – am I the only one who's bothered by it?
Actually, I'm not planning to take it home.
Oh, I liked two pages, these might be useful, and they are going home with me tonight.
There are two problems with this collection.
First, they all should be arranged chronologically, as they provide a running commentary on the political events unfolding in the mid-'80s.
But the first few columns in the book jump around in time.
A column on the fallout from Gary Hart's sexual mischief is out of place among columns from 1985.Second, the columns are too short.
Thompson's method is to wade deep into the pigshit of politics and society and emerge with a handful of pearls.
In these columns, he rarely gets more than ankle-deep into the subject.
A look at a more astute and less excess driven HST.
HST mentions once or twice that the Book of Revelations is one of his main inspirations for writing.
He definitely revels in punishing and fiery language.
There is also a man who admires and protects the likes of Samuel Colderidge (referred to as 'Sam') and Edgar Allen Poe. If you are looking for a "world without rules" Thompson, you might be surprised to find an erudite mother badger, protecting its literary clutch from the George Bushes and Ronald Reagans.
While Hunter remains one of my all time favorite king-hell madman writer's, Generation of Swine is not his best work. I've never made any systematic study of his writing, but it's my impression that he dropped off substantially somewhere around 1980. Drugs eventually take their toll- even on a professional user such as HST. All of which is not to say that he doesn't still crank out some good lines and graphs; "The heavy hand of The Law has caught up with almost everybody, and even the innocent are plagued by lawyers and health inspectors."
I believe Wayne brought this up to the Michigan cottage during one of his visits the summer my brother Fin was living there. In any case, that's where I found and read the thing. "The thing" is a collection of satirical pieces, most of them political, some more cultural, by the author of Fear and Loathing in... Most amusing to me was his straight-faced description of Richard M. Nixon's Vietnamese houseboat mistress.
Good but not great, disappointing compared to his other work. Instead of collecting Thompson's best writing from the 80's, this book simply catalogues all the columns he wrote over a set period. Because of this, Generation of Swine isn't as good as The Great Shark Hunt, the first book in the Gonzo Papers series.
Reagan was headed for the dustbin of history, Bush I readying for jail, televangelists were self immolating, and Gary Hart was packing to move into the White House. Reagan is considered one of the greatest presidents, Ollie North is a hero, Joel Osteen fills a basketball arena every Sunday, and Hart set the stage for our love of political scandal.The swine won.
Ah, if only he were here now to share a few words on Sarah Palin, the "Bush Victory Tour" and Bernie Madow. I miss him.
skippable
This has been the only thing helping me make sense of the current political upheaval. Gonzo forever.
The new age of bedrock dumbness and complete ethical destitution we live in now probably would've killed him faster than that bullet did."Generation of Swine," a collection of Thompson's columns as the "cultural critic" for the San Francisco Examiner, covers the Iran/Contra affair, the TV evangelist sex scandals of the late eighties, the rise of satellite TV, the ever-changing landscape of pornography, but is mostly devoted to the 1987-1988 presidential race.
W. Bush, just to see him emerge as the Republican front-runner and, later the President, by the book's end.Hunter despises Reagan and Bush and everything they stand for.
the second collected work of thompson's journalism (the gonzo papers as it were) sees him actually moving away from gonzo journalism: very few of these very short articles actually feature Thompson in a first person context.
Actually a lot of it feels like armchair journalism.
So many of these articles start with something like, "Last week was a political bloodbath..." followed by Thompson summing up what went down over the last week based on what he saw on the news.
It's barely journalism at all.

While this collection is uneven, and in my opinion poorly edited, there is enough good material to warrant a scavenger hunt through the mediocre.
It seems like much of what is in the book is culled from old columns from the San Francisco Examiner, and due to the nature of the beast, it's hard for a writer to hit a home run every time they are at bat.
It's a good chronicle of the 80's political scene, and a reminder that despite all of the rose colored remembrances, the Reagan era was our first taste of what it's like to be governed by a two bit, washed up celebrity, under the guidance of religious fanatics, Wall Street greed heads and crazed GI Joes.
3 Stars To put it bluntly, I am not knowledgeable enough to fully enjoy this book.
However, I really enjoyed his style of writing.
The way he chose to use quotes from Revelations was always interesting and I really enjoyed the metaphors sprinkled in.Despite not having the right background knowledge to fully understand everything in this book, I really enjoyed the writing.
I will definitely read more by Hunter S Thompson in the future, but I'm going to choose books that don't require as much background as this one did.
This was HST writing a weekly column in an SF newspaper in the mid to late '80s, a period of time encompassing the 1988 presidential election.
Many of the events and issues will be familiar to anyone who's read Richard Ben Cramer's legendary, ginormous What It Takes.
It was a more amusing election than you'd think, and it's too bad there wasn't a proper Game Change-style tabloid account of it written.
These columns are wackier than what you'd usually read in a daily newspaper, but rarely are they laugh out loud funny, and I imagine little of the subject matter would interest someone who's not a hardcore political junkie.
A savage, gonzo journey through the political and cultural low lights of Reagan's second term - Iran/Contra, Gary Hart scandal, TV evangelists scandals, '88 election, etc. - this book is classic Hunter S. Thompson. This shouldn't be your first Hunter S. Thompson book (for that, check out Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72, or Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas), but if you enjoy his irresponsible, wild-eyed journalistic style, and are old enough to have grown up memories of the period, then this book will be a treat.
