https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/608601.Ox_Cart_Man
RIP Donald Hall, at 89.Poet Donald Hall's children's book about a man and his family living his life in New England. The simple repetitions of the prose mirror the simple, regular life he lives in keeping with the land. The illustrations by Barbara Cooney seem old fashioned... which help us see that this way of life has been around for centuries... there's a lot of muted but still vibrant, warm colors in the illustrations and love and admiration for the man and his family and his way of living and exchanging goods for goods, his family's crafts...
The poetic narrative never really seems to expand all that much on the very salient and obvious truth that the Ox-Cart Man is away from his family for weeks, perhaps even months on end, that his wife and children must run the family farm on their own during his absence (probably not even knowing how their husband and father is faring unless he has time and/or is able to write them a letter), that the father himself is traveling in a covered wagon, constantly on the road, and that once he has sold his oxen and his cart, he must walk home.
Nice portrayal of a farmers life in the 19th Century. How the Farmer loads up his cart to products his family works on over the year. It shows many different uses for what a farmer might have access to. Such as mittens made from sheep wool. A great book to introduce your child to a good history lesson.
Perhaps as much so as any other Caldecott Medal winner, Ox-Cart Man finds the power of its telling chiefly through its incredible artwork by Barbara Cooney.
I think of Barbara Cooney as quite likely the hardest-working illustrator in the children's literature history, given her tendency to go the extra mile (or 2,000 miles!) collecting research for the scenes she creates.
In Ox-Cart Man, Barbara Cooney brilliantly evokes the scenes of the simple life portrayed in the story.
You're not likely to find artwork that is better at telling a story than what you see here.
“Ox-Cart Man” might have a good insight on how people lived in America during the Colonial times, but the story might be a bit too boring for most children to handle.This book is basically about a New Englander and his family and how he usually packs some wool from the sheep, mittens made by his daughter, a bag of goose feathers and birch brooms that his son carved in his ox-cart.
But the "dated" story is touching, how the farmer and his family work the land, harvest and make, knit, carve, weave things to sell at the market, how they make the utmost use of everything the farm and the land give them.
All references to gender roles are of course very old fashioned, the daughter knits, the son carves and the father goes to the market and takes care of business.
Some of the pages made me want to tear them out of the book to frame and hang, such as the sunset scene where the farmer is finally making his way home, or the winter scene with the low rising sun putting the clouds on fire.
An interesting look at pioneer times and the things that people would do to make a living. Our girls enjoyed this book a lot and asked a lot of questions about why the man would sell his mode of transport. The illustrations by Barbara Cooney, as usual, are fantastic.This book was selected as one of the books for the January 2016- Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Caldecott Medal 1980I had just finished reading this book and it was laying open on my kitchen table when my husband came in and asked me what I was doing.
I told him that I had just read a children's book and that I really liked it, I actually gave it five stars.
He took one look at the page I had it opened to and said, " Is that Ox-Cart Man?
I loved that book as a kid!" I think my husband's reaction/ memory speaks volumes.
It's simply a special book.
It's educational and sweet with lovely art work.
The illustrations are just beautiful, detailed and nostalgic, and the story is educational. Lovely children's book.
how ones work and home were so closely linked together, to the family and to the seasons...
I love the spreads with the village and the one where the apple trees are blooming (my son is convinced that the cow on the hill is the baby ox spoken of earlier -- he kept waiting for that baby ox to show up ;-> )*Does anyone know where the older episodes of "Reading Rainbow" can be found?
There's a hodgepodge on Netflix now but I'd like more from the earlier years--those are the ones I remember as a kid and would love to share with my sons one day.
Only the illustrations earn the second star.
Unfortunately these three illustrations cannot overcome the boring, repetitive and deeply depressing language of the book.
They just take the tools he brought them and get to work sending him off with a new ox cart full of commerce the next year.
Sure, the father still has a few coins still in his pocket, but they are forgotten and never directed towards bettering the family in any way.
It's like being a Cubs fan - sure, there's next year, but it's going to be as miserable as this year.
This book would have been better without the words.
I read this book when my kids were young, but the impact of the story didn't hit me until I watched Bill Moyer's documentary about Donald Hall and Jane Kenyon.
When Hall explained hearing the story that prompted him to write this book, I decided to revisit the children's book.
It begins in October when an unnamed farmer packs a cart with all the products and produce his family has made and grown.
When I read aloud to my grandsons this afternoon, "...Then he sold his ox cart," one of them gasped.
begins again as soon as he walks home.
The story charmed me.
1980 Caldecott Medal - Favorite Illustration: The winter scene where the family is tapping the trees for maple syrup and the sky is lit up by the sun - so beautiful!This was a fun story about how people used to work the land they lived on and sold the excess to buy things they couldn't make themselves.
The illustrations were beautiful and I really enjoyed the discussion that I had with K after we finished it.
I remember enjoying this book as a child.
Reading it again I still enjoy it, but wasn't sure whether it would have quite the appeal for young children like my kids, because it's just so...
There's a lot of making and buying and selling, and these aren't things that young children generally give much thought to (I was probably a bit older before I really got to like it).
But, if you're trying to find a book that involves all of those things, and gives a glimpse of an earlier, simpler but harder-working time period, and portrays the life cycle of family-oriented farm-based commerce, AND has wonderful illustrations as well, you couldn't do much better than this book.

This book has been a favorite with both parents and children for 38 years.
Barbara Cooney's pictures whimsically capture a farming era of yesteryear.
Follow along as the Ox-Cart Man sells his wares, buys/trades for the winter and prepares for the year ahead.Ages 3+#seasonalbooks**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
I expected to like this book ... but it was disappointing. It basically describes rural life during the colonial period. Maybe it would be of more interest to a child who knows nothing about that era. Maybe, with the right companion, a child could imagine living with the ox-cart family and wonder what they would like better and what they wouldn't like about life pre-modern technology.
This is one of Maddie's favorites. I like it too because it describes colonial life and takes us away from...our modern conveniences. The illustrations are beautiful.
A good story telling where things come from on a farm, what they are made into and how they are sold.
I love Donald Hall poetry, and while this is not the best example of his work, the tender illustrations certainly do him justice.
The plot of the book was cool.
It talked about a farmer’s journey to market to sell goods, and hi return to his family.
Then It talked through the following year telling of the makings of the goods to be sent to market for the next year.
Very simple plot.
The pictures were fun to look at.
I would give the plot of this book a 2/5 star review because of how it was written, but if I were rating the pictures alone, I would have given 5/5 stars.
So in total, I give this book a 3/5 star review.
This picture book tells the story of a farmer and his family who gather the things they make and grow to sell during the early 1800's in NH.
It is beautifully illustrated by Barbara Cooney.This story can be used with primary grade children, like 2nd graders, in a variety of ways.
One way is for students to work in pairs to produce a calendar.
They can create an illustration for each month of the year and what early 19th century New Englanders would make during that month.
This idea came from the following site, and there are other good ideas there incorporating this book: https://www.liveoakmedia.com/assets/g...
• Book summary-This story follows a man delivering goods with his Ox-Cart. His family fills the cart and he sets off on his journey. He arrives at a market and sells everything, including his Ox-Cart. He then used the money to buy gifts for his family. He returned home and the entire family began working on preparing more goods to sell next year. They worked year round repeating the cycle over and over.• Caldecott Medal• Grade level, interest level, Lexile -K-3• Appropriate classroom use (subjec
•	Book summary-This story follows a man delivering goods with his Ox-Cart.
They worked year round repeating the cycle over and over.•	Caldecott Medal•	Grade level, interest level, Lexile -K-3•	Appropriate classroom use (subject area) -Teach cause and effect.
Give them this book so they can see wonderful story about working hard.
•	Small group use (literature circles) -Students can discuss how working hard can pay off.
•	Related books in genre/subject or content area-“Roxaboxen” by Alice McLerran has a relatable moral to Ox-Cart Man. Do not get discouraged with the struggles in life.
On selling the goods, the man buys supplies for his family for the coming year: a needle for his daughter, a knife for his son, a cooking pot for mother, and some wintergreen candies.
The story ends with unspoken anticipation that soon the man will load a new cart to take this year’s goods to town.The hard work of colonial life is made very attractive in this story, as the children cheerfully pitch in and the family works together to build their life and homestead.
This simple yet beautiful historical fiction picture book takes the reader on a journey to early nineteenth-century New England.
The main character, the ox-cart man, prepares to leave for Portsmouth Market.
The family helps him to load his cart.
The family needs money to buy tools and seeds for the new season.
At the market, the man sells all his goods including the cart and the ox.
The book also tells the story of patience and endurance of those who lived on the 19th century New England farm.
The book is nicely illustrated by Barbara Cooney whose pictures complement the story.
This short story portrays the life of a farmer and his family living off the land in the 18th century.
I think the story gives such a great lesson to young kids who are growing up in a very technology dependent world.
The lesson being portrayed is that the earth really can provide everything that is needed to survive.
Things that young kids believe they need, are not necessities but rather they are materialistic objects that they have never had to live without.
I think it is important for kids to learn that there is a large different between need and want.
The text of this book is pretty bland and straightforward, but the illustrations are interesting in their resemblance of early nineteenth century folk art.
This book makes a nice introduction to the time period for very young kids, or for an early elementary school unit on New England history.
I like the way everything comes full circle in the end, getting ready for the whole cycle of the year to start again.
It would make a nice companion for Apples to Oregon, which shows another slice of American history, and since the author is a poet, it might also work well for poetry units and poetry month activities.
My 7 year old daughter really liked this book, reading it a few times while I had it checked out from the library. I was impressed to see/be reminded of their industry. They worked hard, used everything, and had few (almost no) luxuries. Yet there seemed to be a contentment and happiness among the family and a recognition of and gratitude for what they did have. A simple, gentle but lovely story that gives a glimpse into daily life in this era.
This book was really sweet, the illustrations were lovely and homey, plus I loved all the details of how hard this family worked to make a living. I really enjoyed this book, it was simple, but profound. Definitely something I would recommend.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
This one is a cute story with a lot to say about work ethics and how a family can work together. You might want to read this along with The Little House books at some point if your younger child especially liked this picture book growing up. For more:http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/09/cal...
