https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12501645-yellow-iris
Now this story was different from other Poirot stories. (view spoiler)[ Nobody actually died! This time Poirot managed to save someone's life before the crime could be committed. (hide spoiler)] Very quick and entertaining read.On the Edition: Very well done audio edition by HarperAudio. The reader was a superb voice actor.
Hercule Poirot after a very upsetting phone call from a mystery woman, attends to a party and tries to stop a killer before he or she kill again. Yellow Iris was a short Agatha's story with a twist and I loved it!
3.5*s. I liked this set up and the characters and this was Poirot outsmarting the killer with his usual "let them think they've won", scheme, which is always great. The plot and reveal is fantastic, however, I found the setting less exciting than some of her other shorts. If you are a Poirot fan though, I recommend :D
Yellow Iris is a short story by Agatha Christie involving the detective Hercule Poirot.In Yellow Iris Poirot is called upon to attend a party where a murder is about to take place.
It's up to Poirot to stop the murderer from striking again.I'm really enjoying the short stories by Agatha Christie.
Poirot is at his best here, and also at his most conceited too!
He knows that a murder will be placed in his lap and he knows he will solve it.
Yellow Iris had a great twist at the end, and I found it thoroughly enjoyable.
Another fast, enjoyable read from the mistress of mysteries!
Sub-par.
Hands down the weirdest Christie/Poirot story I've read with regards to style, format, pacing, overall construction. Feels much more contemporary.
easy one. simple and interesting story
Always a fun set of characters.
Not many words, bland plot -- but Hercule makes the difference. 4 stars.
Poirot receives a mysterious phone call warning him that someone was in danger at Jardin de Cygnes at the table with yellow irises.Poirot meets the party and learns that the host suspects the others in his party of having something to do with his wife's suicide four years earlier.
He recreates the scene from that night, and one of the guests dies.Who done it?
(view spoiler)[ The host.
He also tried to frame one of the other guests.
(view spoiler)[ Fortunately, Poirot had warned the girl, who had also called him, so she didn't die.
Having seen this short story adapted into an episode of the Poirot television series, I was initially worried that I wouldn't enjoy it. Often, when it comes to mysteries, I find myself feeling less invested when I already know the conclusion. But luckily enough, I had forgotten enough of the plot over the years to be surprised. I also really enjoyed hearing Hugh Fraser do his impression of Poirot. He must have picked up a thing or two while filming with David Suchet.
Always find Christie a good light read. This one didn't let me down
