https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48562.The_Secret_in_the_Old_Attic
Later on I connected it to a real story of the time that my 16 year old brother and I at age 12, began to explore the boarded up cellar at our home.
Nancy Drew has her own scary moments in this book as she explores the attic of an old man’s home, looking for his son’s music sheets.
How I wish that I had had them to explore, but every time Nancy goes up into that old attic and finds things, I am right along side of her.
When I was about 10 or 11, my mother signed me up for a book of the month club. Every month, I received two Nancy Drew or two Hardy Boys books. Every month, they were both read in a week and I was asking when the next book would be there!I thank my mother for recognizing and encouraging my love of reading.
3.5 starsThis gets an extra half star just for the following passage alone:"By this time Mr. Drew had reached River Heights. Bess thought that she and George ought to go home, and were driven to their respective houses. 'If you and your father have a job to do, ' said Ned, 'perhaps I should go too. ''Oh please stay!' Nancy urged. Mr. Drew added, 'I believe we'll need an extra man before the night's over! One with strong muscles!' "The day my dad tells my boyfriend that he has strong muscles will be the day!
Little Susan's parents have died and she's left in the care of her Grandfather, Phillip March. Having not enough finances to support her, he desperately needs the help of Nancy Drew to find some musical manuscripts hidden in his homestead/very creepy house by his late son. This was definitely one of Nancy's more intense mysteries. While hunting for the manuscripts, she finds a   literal  skeleton in the closet, gets captured and tied up, and is threatened by Black Widow spiders. And that is only
Having not enough finances to support her, he desperately needs the help of Nancy Drew to find some musical manuscripts hidden in his homestead/very creepy house by his late son.
So, the pace was definitely great and I liked how the story was constantly moving forward.
It's been a while since I've read a Nancy Drew story so I couldn't remember much about her.
When she was hiding in a bush, waiting for a suspect to walk by, she would be constantly taking to herself and I'm just like 'No wonder you keep getting caught!'Besides that little thing, the story was enjoyable and a page turner.
Ugh!Next: now that the old man has a young girl to look after, and no source of income, he spends half a decade selling valuable family heirlooms in his house, because his son would be heartbroken to know that his father would seek "charity" or assistance.To keep things even more interesting, as soon as the old man relates this sadness to Nancy and her father, he meets an incident right outside their house!
Get him!Of course Nancy assists and gets the man's life back in order; she solves the case and secures a proper inheritance for the man's granddaughter.Added bonus: a look behind the scenes of the music industry!
I read all the Nancy Drew books (and the Hardy Boys) when I was a child, but I will admit that I have read them all again as an adult (a few years ago). The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
I am giving this review through the eyes of me as a child.
I couldn't get enough of these books.
My library of Nancy Drew books was massive in my bedroom when I was a pre-teen.
She was my childhood superhero, the only "celebrity" that I honored who was a woman.I won't do a review on all of the Nancy Drew Mysteries that I have read because there are just too many of them.
These books were one of the greatest works of art for me as I was becoming literate and gaining expression.
Nancy Drew returns with yet another page turner to keep you up at night.
People shouldn’t penalize era of origin in feedback.A man in a declining mansion he can’t afford, is raising his Granddaughter, Susan.
Her Dad Philip March, a deceased soldier and composer, identified hidden sheet music for his late wife in coded letters.
This sub-plot is weak because one cannot pose as a musician and bring music notes to a radio station, airing a finished product in a week!
However if we take the rest as is, this is a compelling mystery.Nancy cons a disliked peer, sneaks into a high security factory, and works on codes.
Nancy Drew is my all time favorite detective book character, and one of my all time favorite book characters of all time.
Nancy Drew is a classic in my family.
My family and I read them together so often.
When my mom reads aloud, she sometimes adds some funny sentences, not silly non-sense sentences, but she adds something that seems like something that the characters would almost say themselves.
Nancy gets into some hot water at times, (if you ever read all the series you'll understand how this is rather funny), but she soon gets out of it.
Has an old school scary attic plot and skeleton that I really enjoyed.
Also, one of the best if not the best Nancy Drew covers.
I loved the bad guy.
He's a real psycho who wields poisonous black widow spiders as his weapon of choice of all things.
How cool is that?
Nancy's claws are out as she bags on the neighborhood stuck up b.
behind her back yet deftly uses her to further her investigation.
I liked the plot developments with the perfume bottles ploy & spider silk fabric formulas.
Held my interest all the way.
Top notch Nancy Drewing.
Den här var lite annorlunda mot andra Kitty-böcker jag har läst i avseendet att man i den här boken får veta saker som inte Kitty vet om. Till exempel när en tjuv såg henne (men hon inte tjuven) så fick man veta vad tjuven i den stunden tänkte - utan att avslöja vem det var, såklart.Jag tror inte att jag har stött på ordet "fängelsekund" tidigare. Älskar gamla översatta böcker, de har ett helt annat språk en de modernare.
I hope we never hear about Effie again. What a dingbat. Also, (view spoiler)[how conveeeeeenient that the two cases were intertwined (hide spoiler)]. Nancy seriously just falls into answers half the time, no real detective work is ever needed. Still, I love re-reading these books when I don't feel very well. They're just so timeless, and they make me smile.
Anoter light re-read. With all the "heavy" things I've been reading for classes lately, yesterday was just a Nancy Drew day. Light mystery, no thinking involved, just immerse myself in a shallow story it didn't take much at all to read. Might do another one today.
I thought it was an intriguing book, and the ends of the chapters will leave readers on their toes and can't wait to read more.
Dude has a thing for black widow spiders, and he's like 1% less creepy about them than Jean Marsh in The Culex Experiment.Plot 3: There's a fun dance coming up at Emerson and NED HASN'T INVITED NANCY.
Some asshat named Horace Lally keeps gettin all up on Nancy's jock trying to get her to agree to attend with him and she's like IT'S NED OR NO ONE SO JUST SHUT THE FUCK UP but she's too polite for that.So, this one is all about a creepy skeleton and SPIDERS and finding secret places to hide shit, etc.
I book from my childhood to meet requirement for 2015 Reading Challenge. Doesn't come better than a Nancy Drew mystery to take you back to your youth.
Yes, I've read 21 of the Nancy Drew books over the past year.This story involves some stolen music and silk manufacturing and luckily for Nancy and her father, they intersect so that Nancy solves not one but two mysteries for the price of one.
There are some other slight changes - such as Mr. March originally collapses of undernourishment instead being hit in the head with a rock.
Apparently Nancy is to busy and never has time to appreciate Ned. These chapters are missing in the revised book.
Ned makes a brief appearance at the end of the book - just in time to save Nancy from a Black Widow spider.
This is one of the first Nancy Drew Mystery Series that I have read in a really long time.
It was extremely predictable, which would make sense because I read it for a formula fiction chapter book.
Carolyn Keene is a good author, every single one of her Nancy Drew books seem to be the exact same layout.
A teacher could use these books for discussion and students can gather clues to make predictions as to what will happen next.
I think young girls could learn a lot from reading these books and it could be a great influence for them.
Nancy Drew was helping her father with some love letters that might have been important(she help solve mystery's and her dad was a lawyer).
"The Secret of the Old Attic" is a fun book to read and curl up with.
Its also a nice book to read if you have a spooky attic or like mystery's.
I started to read this because, A: my mom wanted me to get a book at my pay grade, and B: I read another book that had a character that like Nancy Drew books.
Love, love, love this Nancy Drew installment!
She stays in River Heights...how can it be better than the great places I have been with her lately?
The main setting is one of the things that really excites me...an old mansion with secret rooms and passageways!
AND a factory with a secret laboratory.
I could have done without the black widow spiders, but that's a small price to pay.Nancy is awesome!
We do get to see how manipulative she can be in how she used Diana, but Nancy felt guilty doing so.
Yep, perfect boyfriend.A great read!
A satisfying mystery with a big surprise!
The one that started everything. I think I was top student in my school for Primary One, and the prize was that I would get to choose 2 books, in a magical room where all manner of books had been laid out on every possible surface for prize-winners. I don't remember why I chose this book when there was a picture of a skeleton hand on the cover that terrified me (and kept me away from all books for a long time). Eventually I read it, with much coaxing from my mother, and all the pieces fell in place.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
Originally published in 1944, the story concerns some music that has been stolen and is being used by the thief to record the music and then make money off it when it hits the radio.
Nancy is also helping her father on a case involving a chemical that has been illegally duplicated and is being used to make money.Both cases are complicated and both of them prove dangerous.
There are deadly chemicals and poisonous spiders.
There's a secret entrance into a house and a skeleton in a cupboard.
Both cases are interesting on their own and both tax Nancy's detective abilities.
PBS recently interviewed Millie Wirt Benson, the original ghostwriter who infused this beloved, preteen heroine with many of her own personal traits. I adored and devoured these books as a kid and was inspired to re-read them now. Wow, what a buttinsky Nancy Drew was! That surely explains a lot of my childhood confusion about boundaries. (Sometimes it's valuable to go back and look at your early influences for more than literary reasons.) The 5-star rating is my estimation of the book as a child.
The first book in the Nancy Drew series -- how I wanted to be her growing up! It's interesting to study the evolution of the character through the years, particularly in the descriptions -- she begins as a redhead, and now she has titian hair. She used to drive a jalopy, now she drives a convertible. The image of Nancy has changed, depending on what girls' perceived as their ideal across the generations.
I enjoyed this novel. It was full of suspense, which is what I like in a book. It was mainly about music and trying to find lost compositions. I got kind of tired of the music topic the whole time. The author did a good job of showing the characters emotions and feelings. It made me feel like I could be the same character because we were feeling the same way. It made me fell like I was a part of the book or as if I was that character.
I think this is the first Nancy Drew book I ever read. I'd love to reread the series sometime but I have a feeling they didn't age well.I always knew that these and the Hardy Boys books were by the same author, but I only just learned that they were actually ghost written for a syndicate... a SYNDICATE! Feeling a little betrayed, like my childhood has been commoditized. I should never have read the Goodreads page for Carolyn Keene.
I found a copy of this and several other Nancy Drew books while visiting family at Christmastime 1993. My 9-year-old daughter was reading mysteries, so I thought it was time for her to try a Nancy Drew. I got so enthusiastic about having Nancy in my life again that I had to read one myself. It was awfully good--took me back to fifth grade again...
