https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/358980.The_Arabs_in_History
In comparison with the first edition of 1950, Lewis certainly has partially assimilated the critique on 19th and 20th century orientalism (which only viewed the Muslim world from Western eyes) and removed the worst deformations.
Lewis zooms in almost entirely on the so-called heyday of Arab civilization, from the 7th to the 12th century, and the evolutions from then on are haphazardly treated in a few dozen pages.
That distinction can certainly be made, but it remains artificial, because also in the so-called flowering period the Islamic civilization had various roots.
It is an Orientalist perspective but not so biased. Bernard Lewis himself acknowledged that looking at the history of other societies from western perspective will be biased and unfruitful. It will only help magnify the innate prejudices of western audience. History and evolution of every society is distinct.Viewing the past& present of others with the lens of our current knowledge and values will help politicians to demonize and oppress them.
Bernard Lewis succinctly describes the ills facing modern Muslim society today and how they have failed to come to terms with nationalism or socialism.
My only criticism of the book is a point which I noticed when reading one of his earlier works: 'Islan and Modernity.
What went wrong?' In that book he cites that for five hundred years Muslim scientific enquiry stopped.
He mentions the term atomism and defines it in context of the medieval Arab; but fails to explain how it diminished the importance of causality for Muslim thinkers.
That aside this is a must read for all Muslims.
I’m pretty sure Lewis’ central caveat is that it wasn’t the Arab empire that eff-d up North Africa and the Middle East, it was the Bedouins, Central Asians/Turks, Mongols.
By this is meant the tendency to view life and the universe as a series of static, concrete and disjunct entities, loosely linked in a sort of mechanical or even casual association by circumstances or the mind of an individual, but having no organic interrelation of their own.”“The Crusaders brought a piece of Western Europe to the heart of the Arab East.
A concise overview of the Arabs, their history and culture, and their place in the world. This is a good companion volume to Lewis' "Constantinople and the Civilisation of the Ottoman Empire". This used to be the gold standard, but is a little dated now. That said, with first edition written in the 40s, it's nice to read a history of the Arabs not heavily flavoured by current conflicts and Western phobias and prejudices.
A good abbreviated insight into Arabs. One being the difficulty, how to define an Arab.
Very good detailed excursion into what can be called Arab history
A concise introduction to the history of Arabs from the earliest times to the 20th century.
The rise of the Arab empire after the advent of Islam and the consequent political, cultural, economic and military advances are explained in sufficient detail.
The author also explains the ability of Arabs to assimilate and influence other cultures and civilizations.
Although this is a brief account of the place of Arabs in a history, it is very well researched and written and is highly recommended for anyone looking for a brief introduction to Arab and early Islamic history or as a starting pointy for more detailed studies.
Hyvä ja tarkkanäköinen kirja arabien historiasta. Kirja käy läpi arabimaailman historian sopivan syvällisellä tasolla, ja vaikka siinä mainitaan aika paljon eri vaikuttajia ja ruhtinaita, ei hienoinen luettelomaisuus haittaa, kun sen kanssa vuorottelevat analyyttisemmät tulkinnat tapahtumista. Kirja ulottuu lähes nykypäivään, ja toteaa 2000-luvun taitteesta kirjoittaessaan että arabimaailmassa käydään tällä hetkellä kovaa vääntöä traditionalistien ja uudistushaluisten välillä. Kirjan hienoinen optimistisuus arabimaailman suhteen on todellisuudessa kääntynyt päinvastaiseen, ikävä kyllä.
Excellent summation of the long and turbulent history of the arabs. Much more could be written, but the essence, the must-know facts and analysis, are here.
The journey ends with the rise of Arab nationalism and the formation of the current Arab states in the middle east and north Africa in the 20th century.Chapter 5 "The Islamic Empire" is a wonderful chapter to read and merges both Lewis' talent and knowledge in describing the Islamic culture that formed and matured during the Umayyad and the Abbasid Caliphates when Arabs had accepted inter-faith marriages representing various races and cultures that also lived in the Islamic world then.Here are some things I learned:1) .
The term "Arab" is still used colloquially in both Egypt and Iraq to distinguish the Bedouin from the local citizen.
The Arabs distinguish these nomads with the name "Bedouin." 8) .

Extremely informative, as Bernard Lewis ALWAYS is. So much scholarship crammed into a couple hundred pages. A great summary.
Another book from Lewis thick with history of the Arabs, with this work advising the Arabs to not try to replicate the West, but to balance their own unique inherited traditions with the benefits of the West.
As a contemporary work of the times, an amazing piece of research.
Toward the end of the book, he summarizes Arab Islamic culture in a way that I hadn't put together before that, I think, is quite apt.
Lewis also writes at length about the history of the Arabic language.
As an eternally frustrated student of Arabic, I appreciated these insights very much.
He showed the beauty of the language and that by understanding how the language works the reader can much better understand the Arab culture.Highly recommended.

My edition of "The Arabs in History" was published in 1966.
The author, Bernard Lewis, was a Professor of History at the University of London.
This is an exceptional book with a great bibliography and chronology of significant events in the history of Islam and Muslim nation building.
It provides a remarkable background for understanding the underlying forces influencing today's civil war in Syria, war in Afghanistan, emergence of ISIS, and Iraq governance struggles after the fall of Saddam Hussein.
I learned much about the cultural mores and beliefs of Arab republics.
The last chapter of the book is full of insight and a must read for students of world history.
Bernard Lewis çok üretken ve İslam medeniyetini çok iyi tanıyan bir tarihçi.Türkiye dostu ve İslam uygarlığına karşı kısmen oryantalist önyargılardan arınmış biri.Fakat her ne kadar bu özelliklere sahip olsa da hem Yahudi olması hem de bir zamanlar Bush'un danışmanlığını yapması nedeniyle yine de dikkatle okunmalı.Çünkü iki özelliği de onun bilinç altında islamofobik birşeylerin olduğunun kanıtıdır kanımca.Ayrıca bu kitabında temel tezlerinden birisi, Abbasi ihtilalinin aslında iranlıların araplara karşı kazandığı bir zafer olduğudur.
I say this with a lot of Lewis' work....that I seem to lose interest by the last few chapters....regardless, this is a great work for people who might get confused by a Middle East History that emphasizes Iranian and Turkish elements (though they are crucial to understanding the Middle East).Start here, if you're new to Lewis' work.
Se esta História não é um dos melhores exemplos da história de escola Francesa, não sei o que é. Mas ainda assim é bastante equilibrada, dando uma visão vasta do Islão enquanto força politica. É equilibrada e bastante bem feita.
A great read to understand why the Middle East is the way it is! Bernard Lewis is a great historian who explains Islam is easy to understand chapters. I used this text in a history class and recommend reading everything Lewis has written.
Really well-written. Does not sacrifice accuracy for entertainment, nor the other way around. Would highly recommend for an overview of Arab history. I did wish that the author would have included footnotes, however.
very comprehensiveI liked it
Library
[review coming soon]
Good book if you want to increase your knowlodge more without pre-judging a culture just by thinking different as you do.
A good read
Disgusting classical Orientalism.
A very good and interesting book. I hope that people from the Western world who read it will have a better idea of who they're up against.
