https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/290503.Claudia_and_the_Phantom_Phone_Calls
Fail, Stacey, fail.Quit letting 12-Year Olds Watch Your Goddamn Kids"Boring!" said Stacey.
Leaving doors open left and right for anybody to walk through."The Phantom: "It was that baby-sitting book you started bring to school everyday.
The main color would be red."Awwwwwwwwwkward"I don't know whether I was born early or late or on time," said Mary Anne softly.
Through thick and thin.""Through Phantoms and power failures.""Through fires and floods."We put our arms around eachother and headed into the school," [where, hopefully, someone beat you up for being so f*cking cheesy.]That two-star rating?
I like Claudia.
Irresistible re- read of 2018  Claudia Kishi, BSC 's vice-president takes the role of main protagonist in book 2. I liked the focus on a younger sibling feeling she cannot live up to an older sister's shadow. On top of it the girls ( who are in 7th grade) become obsessed with a local news story about recent B&E 's. Of course, overactive imaginations lead to some pretty crazy things happening. But there's also plenty of room for teen angst as Claudia worries if her poet crush will take her to the Halloween Hop.
I know this is an older book and we've come a long way since it was written.But.Can. We.
Stop.
Boys.
It needs to stop.
I am raising two little boys.
My 2nd grader had his first crush this year and you know what I told him?To make sure to include her in all his games at school and to notice and say nice things about her.
I told him the absolute worst thing he could do would be to pick on her, tease her, or in any way be physical towards her.Common fucking sense people.
the babysitters are concerned that someone may rob the houses where they are babysitting, or that parents will get word of the phantom caller & not allow them to babysit anymore for fear of their safety.
nothing ever goes so far as they did in the sweet valley series (where the twins are the victims of attempted murder & kidnappings every other day, but never seek counseling or show any effects whatsoever), but still!anyway, claudia & kristy get phantom phone calls while they are babysitting & of course it ends up being trevor & alan gray calling & trying to muster up the courage to invite the girls to the halloween hop.
Claudia and that gang are back at it! Babysitting is all fun and games (literally) until someone starts breaking into homes and stealing jewelry. Known as the “Phantom Caller” he calls twice and hangs up without a sound and after that happens you are next in line to be robbed. The girls start getting these strange calls and what unfolds next may not be exactly what they where expecting.
If you ever get a call from me asking about a blue ribbon, you'll know what to do. If you've read this book, that is.
And here begins my feminist reading of The Baby-Sitters Club. I don't love the premise of this, that boys tease and are mean to girls they like. These are some strong women, but they give in too quickly to guys who are mean, just because they like them!
Sorry not sorry for enjoying the hell out of this dive into my favourite series circa 1996.
The baby-sitters choose to fear a jewel thief.The babysitters are spooked by a news story about a jewel thief who calls homes and then hangs up without saying anything to make sure no one is there before he comes to rob them, especially after Claudia and Kristy receive “phantom phone calls” at their babysitting jobs.
Finally, while tag-team babysitting Jamie Newton and his cousins, Claudia and Kristy see prowlers and call the police, only to discover that their “phantom” stalkers all along were boys who were too shy to ask them out.A jewel thief story sets an early precedent for mysteries and seems a slightly odd choice for a second book in a baby-sitting girls series.
And in the first book it mentioned Peter Rabbit and Where the Wild Things are.
Stuff like this makes me so happy.
I also liked how the book deals with a struggling student.
Claudia has a high IQ, but struggles in school.
Martin makes sure that every reader will see a reflection of themselves in one of the characters.
There was also a quote that I LOVED in the book (as a teacher): "If they're discussion questions, why aren't we discussing them?
And this was 1986- some teachers need to learn from Claudia and Ann M.
Martin
I was a little embarrassed reading this book because parts of it that were supposed to be spooky actually spooked me a little bit, which made me feel silly because it's a children's book.But the thing that really made me not like this book very much was the ending.
I think "oh that boy is doing terrible things to you *because he likes you*" is actually a really unhealthy message to send to girls.
When she told Claudia that even though he'd been making her miserable she was going to go out with him because "*a boy likes me*," it reminded me far too much of why I went out with my first boyfriend, which turned out to be a really terrible situation for me.
I thought this book was one of the best books yet. My favorite part was when ever Claudia and Kristy gats these phone calls that when ever they pick it up nobody is on the other end of the line. And it turns out that the people who called Claudia and Kristy turned out to be their lovers who wanted to dance.
Every chapter ends with a cliffhanger! Just to let you know, this book is so amazing and it makes me wonder why Raina Telgemier didn't make a graphic novel out of this like she did with other BSC books
It was a really good book, and it had mystery and creepy things. It's really hard to put it down because you don't know what will be next. Warning: If you get scared of robbers easily, DON'T READ!!!!!!!!!!!!
i think sley put it best: this book has staying power. Have you seen my blue hair ribbon?
I LOVED Tha Babysitter's Club series as a kid. Claudia was my favorite and I owned this book at one time. I truly hope they are still being read by young readers today!
***Spoiler Alert!*** Had to have a conversation w/ my girls to explain that what's presented as a cute, flattering, and "boys will be boys" type of scenario -- the phantom calls are actually from boys who have crushes on the girls -- was actually textbook stalking behavior which is creepy, totally unacceptable, and often leads to violence.
I understand that this book was written in 1986 but I don't want my girls to think that it's ok that this boy was stalking and terrifying this girl and then, when the girl finds out he has a crush on her and wants to go to a dance w/ her, she's totally cool with it and accepts his invitation to the dance.
Oh the joys of being near the same age as these girls when I first read the books.
As a kid, their ages never seemed weird.
I started babysitting around then too, but only for a kid next door, nothing major.There are a lot of petty bickering in these books, and girl hate.
Claudia and Stacey are always looking down on Kristy and Mary Anne for being babyish and not being into makeup and boys yet.Boys are portrayed as being mean and gross, and picking on girls only because they like them.The books are super nostalgic and I still enjoy reading them, of course, but I wish I could slip back into innocent me's mind and enjoy them without picking out all the problematic elements.
3.5 StarsA very cute story and a well written middle-grade mystery.
The plot of this second book in the BSC series, Claudia and the Phantom Phone Calls, revolves around a continuing local news story in Connecticut about a thief who makes hang-up phone calls and based on whether or not someone is home, breaks in and robs the house of expensive jewelry.
I did remember that the BSC series included a number of mysteries, and eventually spun off a separate mystery series, but I don't think I ever liked those stories as much as the regular babysitting adventures the girls had.I couldn't pick out any major changes in this revised edition of the book.
Claudia's sister, Janine, is as unbearable as usual, and although Claudia tries to work on their relationship, like her grandmother suggested, there's just not enough time!Claudia and the Phantom Phone Calls is a middle-grade novel, the second in the Baby-Sitters Club series by Ann M.
Lots of people who discuss these books kinda fun-lovingly make fun of the outfits she wears--which, even in the 80s and 90s, sounded kinda ridiculous, but at least they were individualistic in a way that was NOT an Establishment Way Of Being Unique.
But for some reason, the thing that always stuck in my head was that Claudia hid junk food all over her room!
Ugh. I also thought it was ridiculous that boys who liked the main characters would try to call them while they were at other people's houses--that's a really contrived way of making everything okay at the end.
Claudia is a part of the baby-sitters club, and she is interesting in boys more than two of her other friends.
Claudia is trying to be better to her sister, she thinks two of her friends act like babies, and she wants her crush to ask her out, it is a world of crazy going on in the baby-sitters club.
I thought this one was another good book in this series, however, I find that I don't really like Claudia much.
Other than that, I thought the rest of the book was good, and I'm excited for more.
Okay, despite the fact that Kristy shouted, "One false move and I'll punch your lights out!" at a room full of children in this book, and despite the fact that she agreed to go to the dance with the stalker in the bushes in front of the house where she was babysitting (yuck), I really enjoyed this reread.
If the BSC books form a dog pile based on quality, the first four firmly sit atop, with the preposterous BSC Mystery books choking to death on the bottom (I'm looking at you, Kristy and the Vampires).
Oh, the BSC.
After getting back into the Baby-sitter's Club books with the new prequel, The Summer Before, and the first BSC book, Kristy's Great Idea, I thought, what the heck, I'll keep on going!
So I read the second BSC installment, Claudia and the Phantom Phone Calls.
I still maintain that these are great books, especially for pre-teens.
My heart actually quickened a little when the phone rang and no one was there, or when one of the girls thought she heard/saw something.
I will probably continue to read these, interspersed with "grown-up" books.
Fantastic books for young girls getting into reading!! Great stories about friendship and life lessons. The characters deal with all sorts of situations and often find responsible solutions to problems.I loved this series growing up and wanted to start my own babysitting business with friends. Great lessons in entrepreneurship for tweens.The books may be dated with out references to modern technology but the story stands and lessons are still relevant.Awesome books that girls will love! And the series grows with them! Terrific Author!
Claudia and mysteries?! Yes, please! I remember also getting into Nancy Drew the same time I was reading this so, I loved the excitement. And Claudia, too! She was always so cool—an artist, Japanese, had her own phone and endless supply of candies. Aaahhh Claudia!I loved the BSC growing up, and have decided to re-read (or read for the first time) some of the books in the series. Which of the members are you? :)
even Alicia remembers this mystery...---Número dos, señoritas y señores... this is so much fun! I just plowed through this one (in a wider spread set of stints then the first book)as well and was quickly drawn into the mystery and the "drama".For a young group of gals these girls are head smart with a lot of bright ideas for combating their own insecurities whilst maintaining a peaceful atmosphere for their charges!
Continuing my re-read of the BSC books in Kindle edition, it was fun to enter Claudia's mind, as most of the books I read back then where Maty Anne's and Kristy's. I specially liked he way Claudia, even as she is VERY different than her two friends for always, tries to find common ground with them so they don't drift apart. Though, the whole "truth" about THEIR Phantom Caller was a bit of a let down. I'm already in book 3 ;)
I know what you're thinking, the Babysitter;s Club? Really?But yes really, I loved this series when I was growing up, in fact this is the series that started it all for me. This is the series that made me love to read so for that alone, it rates high in my book. :)
