https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/683264.The_Diary_of_a_Provincial_Lady
One of my favourite books!
I have read this so many times I am on my third copy.
It is one I can open on any page and just start reading.
Big fan of E M Delafield and would recommend her.The Provincial Lady (you never learn her name) lives in Devon with her husband and two children and her diary tells of her everyday life with characters from the village, her constant battle with the state of her finances, her surprise at the publication of her book, her adventures in London and then America and finally at the outbreak of WWII.
The only part of it I dislike is the back cover, which reads:"The Provincial Lady has a nice house, a nice husband (usually asleep behind The Times), and nice children.
In fact, maintaining Niceness is the Provincial Lady’s goal in life—her raison d'être.
The Provincial Lady, after all, is part of what made Britain great."It's probably the MOST WRONG and LEAST REPRESENTATIVE back-cover I've ever read.
She has her own flat in London from which she write books, for goodness' sake, and her best friend is a lady-doctor.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Diary of a Provincial Lady is a wryly, gently satirical look at the lives led by upper-middle class British women in the period between the two world wars.
Delafield displays a marvellous ear for dialogue and a deft sense of the social requirements of 1930s Britain—after a particularly trying visit from the odious Lady Boxe, "Relieve my feelings by waving small red flag belonging to Vicky, which is lying on the hall-stand, and saying À la lanterne!
Rather unfortunately, Ethel chooses this moment to walk through the hall.
She says nothing, but looks astonished."
The day to day life of this provincial lady is not very exciting, she manages the household budget (badly), tries not to upset the staff or dote on her children too much, gets annoyed with the local 'bigwig', gets involved in local fundraising efforts, meets friends and enters writing competitions. It is all told with a wry humour, which makes the book enjoyable, but it was probably better as a series of anecdotes in ladies magazine "Time and Tide" than as a novel.
Dismayed to discover the contagious effect of Delafield's pronoun-lacking style and am beginning to wonder when "I" shall return to my sentences.
;)************************Delafield offers a wry look at 1930s middle-class English life.
A fun read and I think I would have enjoyed it even more if I had read it in weekly installments, as it was originally published.
Excellent reading for social historians.Although this is not a Persephone book, I am putting it on my persephone shelf, because Delafield is one of the P.
writers and Nicola Beauman, founder of P., wrote the introduction for the edition I read (not pictured here).
Bit of a marathon. I read it on and off for months. Throughly enjoyable and quite amusing, in a similar vein to Monika Dickens output. Lovely.
Could we all write plays, if only we had the time?)"--"Go up to night-nursery and offer to read Lamb's Tales from Shakespeare.
This contrary to every convention of art, literature, or morality, but cannot altogether escape conviction that answer may be in the affirmative.)"--"I go back to Rose's flat, and display waves (new hairstyle), and am told that I look fifteen years younger--which leaves me wondering what on earth I could have looked like before, and how long I have been looking it." --"Go to a large establishment which is having a Sale in order to buy sheets.
For instance, comments by the governess, Mademoiselle, seem to be relayed on nearly every page, but there is nothing funny or even interesting about them except the fact that they are in French.On the plus side, I did enjoy the Lady's discussion of many books she's read, and I often found I enjoyed this novel more if I picked it up and read just a few paragraphs at a time.
The book originally appeared as a magazine column (as betrayed by the endless plugs for other features in the journal 'Time and Tide') and I suspect it would have worked much better for me in that format.
Screamingly, delightfully, deliciously funny. Lots of literary allusions as well as lots of "Yep, I've been there too" moments. She shows the hilarity and absurdity of ordinary, prosaic, frustrating situations. The original, London, and America are probably the best, although if you're insatiable for more Provinicial Lady (like me) it's great to have the Wartime and Russia diaries to dip into too.
A brilliant book. This diary was originally written as a series of articles in Time and Tide Magazine. The diary covers the period from 1930 until 1939 and the 'phoney war'. E m Delafield's writing is very witty and there were times when I laughed out loud. More than that though, I felt she was a friend and she was chatting to me about her life and her friends I was sad when I came to the last page.
One of my favourite books. I'm currently on my third copy (the other two having been read so much they fell to pieces!) and still read it when I want to think about life the way it apparently used to be in Britain between the wars. Bear in mind though that it was meant to be serialised (in Time and Tide magazine), so won't bear reading in long sessions or might seem repetative.
Light relief of a purely English kind. It has a charm all of its own that meant I couldn't put it down. The whims and wherefors of British life are so comical and beautifully observed. We haven't changed all that much now you know.Toast
I loved this! The provincial lady has a wicked sense of humour which makes me laugh. I wish there were more. She kind of reminds me of Miss Read -- I think they would get along great together!
Absolutely fabulous read. Hilarious, well written, very witty.
January 28: First discovered Diary of a Provincial Lady by listening to the BBC radio adaptation (abridged) a few weeks ago, read perfectly by Claire Skinner.
Bought and devoured hardback Virago edition with very apt rose print cover design.January 29: Highly recommend on goodreads.
Humour is similar I feel - played straight but open to detection of the hidden jokes.
Note: Essential that readers (a) have sense of humour (in short supply these days) and (b) not Take Themselves Too Seriously (ditto).
(Query: Do I lend Diary to best friend, knowing I may never see it again?
Where it differs is in the writer’s self-confidence, the sense you get that she knows that she is has independent identity even as she attempts to meet the expectations of the social world determined by her husband’s position as agent to the local landowner and his wife Lady Boxe who queens it over the town.
As much as women of my mother’s generation must have loved the humor of this book to make it and its sequels such a big seller, I am sure that for many of them identified with the Provincial Lady as she tried to cling to her own identity while negotiating the demands of a social position defined by her husband’s career.

From an earnest viewpoint, of course we recognise the conventional limitations of contemporary women's lives- the restrictions of class and constraints of a limited budget- the diarist is not well-off but complicated social expectations can't be ignored.
The Diary teems with characters sketched in so sharply that they are unforgettable: husband Robert, taciturn and morose behind "The Times"; Mademoiselle perpetually anticipating disaster; her children Vicky and Robin to whom she is a fond mother, though carefully detached in public - as times required; demanding houseguests.
The Diarist herself, self-deprecatingly humorous in all troubles but doggedly swimming through, is a marvellous companion.
We never get to know the provincial lady's name but her diary reveals much about her life and family in the 1930s.
Daily life revolves around household and family needs, managing the servants but keeping them happy, keeping the bank at bay when they write about the latest overdraft, keeping the latest litter of kittens from husband Robert's notice....
Her cynical asides are hilarious as are her interactions with Mademoiselle, Vicky's governess.
Husband Robert is almost eloquent in his silence.
Highly recommended to those who can appreciate books where "nothing much happens".
The first: "Diary of a Provincial Lady" is just that--the life of a middle class wife and mother in Devon, complete with "Our Vicar", the snobby local grande dame in the manor house, the problems of cooks and housemaids, and a perfect stiff upper lipped husband who takes refuge behind the newspaper.
(Robert, by the way, is one of my favorite characters!)"The Provincial Lady Goes Further" satirizes London and London literary society of the period.
"The Provincial Lady In America" has her view of American life, which is more benevolent than you'd expect.
I first encountered The Diary of a Provincial Lady in the late 1990s when it was serialised on Radio 4.
I think in some ways that this was its ideal format, with Imelda Staunton maintaining that breezily optimistic tone that seems constantly about to crack but never quite does.
Generally acknowledged as a thinly (very thinly) disguised autobiography, The Diary of a Provincial Lady has the same pin-sharp humour as Barbara Pym and Stella Gibbons with Delafield's only delightful blend of cringe humour and domestic mishaps.
The nameless narrator is forever struggling to maintain her stance in the lower upper classes, all the while thwarted by her rebelling household.
A fictional diary of an upper-middle class woman living in a Devonshire village circa 1930 as she struggles to balance the household books, and to keep her home running as smoothly as possible while trying to solve various crises and keep everyone happy, from her husband and children to her friends, neighbours, servants and tradesmen.
She deals with colds (herself and the children), measles (herself and the children), and a cat who is continually producing litters.
She peppers her entries with memos and queries which veer from the practical to the philosophical - and she is very, very funny.Full review at http://chriscross-thebooktrunk.blogsp...
I wanted to write a quick review and also clarify that this edition of Provincial Lady includes four of the Lady writings including Provincial Lady in Wartime -- one that I had not read.
I read just this part of this edition in this case.
She is one of the middle class who seek a way to help with war work.
Provincial Lady finds herself in London being turned away from more demanding ways of helping the government brace for war, and instead begins work in a canteen.
I really enjoyed the first three books in this omnibus, but found the final one - the Provincial lady in wartime - a bit of a slog.
This may perhaps be because I had the next book sitting on the table waiting for me.
But I enjoyed a good 370+ pages of the 500, especially the provincial lady goes further.
Really very amusing and I wish I hadn't let it sit on my to read pile for so long (about 6 months to be precise).
I don't know what else the author wrote, but I'd certainly be interested in reading more by her if there is some more.
The Diary of a Provincial Lady is one of those books that people are always recommending I read, but I hadn't really given it much thought until I came across a 1980s Virago bind up of the four Provincial Lady books in a second hand bookshop while on holiday a couple of weeks ago.
I bought it for £1.99, and have thoroughly enjoyed reading the first book.
I suspect that the other three Provincial Lady titles in this omnibus volume would probably benefit from not being read in one long glut, so I'll come back to them on and off over the next year or so when the mood takes me.


A wonderful book!Very witty and gives an insight into the pre war and war times.It was so of the time of the 1930's where people were still in service.There are great episodes like the constant trip to the pawnbrokers to spending more than their means which seemed to be a common occurance being overdrawn at the bankRobert the husbands view was that writing a diary was a waste of time.Wonderful characters from the vicars wife, Lady B to Helen Wheels the cat who was always having kittens and the plight of the bulbs!I loved it!
The first part (this is a multivolume edition) was OK, once I slowly warmed up to it. It's all downhill from there. The trip to America is pretty uninteresting, and the wartime volume is so boring I don't think I'll ever be able to finish it. Somehow you can sense that these books were written to pay the cook, the butcher, the parlormaid... something really forced about the style.
