https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6383607-in-chancery
I loved the first book in the Forsyte Saga so much that I went straight on to listen to #2.
Once again, I enjoyed every moment of the audiobook which is superbly narrated by one of my otherwise least favourite narrators, the late David Case.
The wonderful prose, the great characters, the biting satire, the evocative depiction of middle class England at the dawn of the 20th century all combine to make this a novel an absolute treat.
I think of it as a classy literary soap opera and I'm looking forward to the next instalment.
Valutazione 4,5Un altro bellissimo episodio della saga dei Forsyte, questa volta un po' più corale, con tante situazioni e personaggi nuovi, una girandola di vicende, anche storiche (La guerra dei Boeri, la morte della Regina Vittoria descritta in maniera superlativa) che coinvolgeranno vecchi e giovani Forsyte, nel passaggio dal vetusto al nuovo secolo così significativo e inesorabile per tutti loro.
Ancora rancori, gelosie, diffidenze, rivalità, scandali coinvolgeranno questa granitica famiglia così fortemente e disperatamente ancorata al concetto di proprietà rigidamente vittoriano che lotta con tro il senso della bellezza insito in molti di loro...Un vivido e commovente interludio “L'estate di S.
Second volume of the saga. Slow paced but fascinating. The main story -- there are several that intertwine -- concentrates on Soames, the arch-Forsyte of the second generation in hot pursuit of a woman (property to marry) to provide a male heir. like the previous volume: captivating and looking forward to the next volume.See also my review of the first volume.
I enjoyed this second novel (third installment) in the series much better than the first one. In part, this is because Galsworthy has advanced beyond some of his more indulgent narrative techniques. But mostly it is because the characters' development has deepened considerably. Also, I admit to finding their reactions *to* the events of the first book much more interesting than the first book itself.
There are not enough stars for this.
In this however he is wrong, and the marriage goes sour long before he would acknowledge it, with his total bewilderment and lack of understanding of his beautiful and sensitive, artistic, intelligent wife - he expects her to settle down and do her duty, and be happy with all that he can provide for her in ways of house and clothes and jewellery and stability, but she is made of a different mettle and is not one to see herself or any other woman as an object of male property.She might have continued the slow death within, forced to do so by her husband reneging on his promise of letting her go free if she were not happy, had it not been for the architect Bosinney, fiance of her niece by marriage June Forsyte the daughter of Young Jolyon, first cousin of Soames.
Siamo alla fine dall'Ottocento e l'epopea della famiglia Forsyte continua, dopo il primo capitolo "Il possidente", con sempre più contrastati interessi. Perfetto, orchestrato con maestria incomparabile, Galsworthy per me è come Trollope. Regala ore di compagnia impagabili e mai delude. "Nel '37, l'anno in cui la grande Regina era salita al trono, l' avo dei Forsyte - Superior Dosset- costruiva ancora di quelle case che fanno la bruttura di Londra. Per le strade correvano le diligenze, gli uomini portavano ancora le calze sino ai ginocchi e Dickens non aveva neanche cominciato a scrivere"..
This is the second book in the Forsyte Saga trilogy and is the weakest of the three books as it mostly deals with Soames stubbornly refusing to believe that his relationship with Irene is irretrievably broken and Irene's growing relationship with young Jolyn. Mostly this book sets the reader up for the third volume where all the interesting things happen.
دائما لا يخزيني الادب الانجليزي ادب رائق هادي يوضح مجتمعه وبشدةتحيه لمترجم الجزءين رواية شديدة العذوبة
הוא פוגש את אנט ומחליט להתגרש מאיירין, אבל אין עילה לגרושים כי לאיירין לא היה מאהב מאז בוסינה.גוליאן הבן הולך שבי אחרי איירין ולא רואה את הצד של סומס.
למרות זאת גוליאן הבן, אינו רואה את סומס שהוא בן דודה שלו.סומס נפגש עם איירין לשכנע אותה להתגרש, אבל בפגישה הוא משנה את דעתו ורוצה את איירין חזרה לאישתו.
סומס מפתח אובססיה הוא רוצה בן ואיירין מסרבת לאפשר לו את זה באטימות שלה.יותר מזה, היא מייצרת קרע עמוק בתוך המשפחה בהתנהגות שלה ובתלות שלה בגוליאן.גוליאן הבן, מאוהב באיירין ועושה עוול לבן דודו בגלל איבות קדומות ובגלל שהוא מסונוור מאיירין.
Soames, the "man of property" wants a son.
More to the point (in Soames's mind), she is still his property, and she has done him a grave wrong.
(Never mind that he raped her in Volume 1 - he doesn't see it that way).Things aren't going smoothly for his sister Winifred either.
So Winifred too must look to the divorce courts for protection.Meanwhile, despised cousin Jolyon is living in the house at Robin Hill that Soames commissioned and that led to Irene's flight.
So that young Jolyon is acting as trustee, giving him a reason to see Irene on a regular basis.Poor Soames.
The middle novel of The Forsyte Saga. Read as part of the omnibus of "The Forsyte Saga - Complete".
A magnificent portrait of Old England and the Victorian age seen through the eyes of Soames, Irene and Young Jolyon, perfectly painted with Galsworthy's inimitable style.
Finally the divorce goes through and two children are born, Jon to Irene and Jolyon and Fleur to Soames and Annette, a French young woman he finds in an inn and marries.
He does not admit his love, but she understands it, and their days together are spent in the same beauty that she did with his father until they are thrown together far more due to the persecution of her husband who would divorce her and marry a young woman he has fixed his sights on so he can have a son after all - he is now near fifty and his father James is dying, hankering for a son for Soames.
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts...............................................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008........................................................................Interlude: Indian Summer of a Forsyte:-Indian Summer here refers not to unbearably hot 45-50 degree centrigrade summer but the soft warmth of India of post rains in September - October that here the author uses as a silent metaphor for the beautiful life of Old Jolyon in his old age after he has bought the house Bosinney built for Irene, after Bosinney is dead, where he now lives with his son Jo, Young Jolyon, and his three children from his two marriages, June and Jolyon "Jolly" and Holly.
The novel begins with deaths in the Forsyte family and ends with another death and a birth.
Scandal, Divorce, remarriage, birth and deaths(including that heart rending lonely death of young Jolyon in a war at distant lands) - Everything touches Forsyte family.
As also the funeral possession of Queen Victoria seen in the perspective of newly married Soames as well as his father James.
None of us - none of us can hold on for ever" Things would never be the same as the Forsyte family is caught in the winds of change sweeping the country.
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts...............................................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008........................................................................In Chancery:-In Chancery continues with young Jolyon and Irene and Soames, the beautiful new house designed and constructed for Irene being now put up for sale by Soames who is tenacious in his not giving up on her in spite of her leaving him.
Twelve years after the end of the first installment, we return to the Forsytes, on the verge of a new century.
Galsworthy published this just after WWI, and the book is suffused with a sense of a world on the edge of disappearing, its inhabitants uncertain of what will succeed it and not too sure about their place in it.
Soames clings to the life raft of property, as he always has, although it's looking like a worryingly unstable one.
This second volume in 'The Forsyte Saga' is almost as good as the first.
I did miss the authorial mocking of the family's pretensions, but the ambiguity of the author's position on the morality of his characters nearly makes up for it.
Soames Forsyte has the moral high ground: his wife did have an affair in the first book and he doesn't want his private life to appear in all the newspapers.
On the other hand, Irene, his estranged wife is very much the injured party and has no issues about what the world thinks of her.
I personaggi sono come sempre descritti in maniera magistrale e spietata nelle loro grettezze e piccinierie. In questo volume L’Autore coglie l’occasione del funerale della regina Vittoria per offrire un’interessante quanto impietosa analisi del periodo vittoriano.Purtroppo anche questa edizione (Elliot, come “Il possidente) è estremamente carente dal punto di vista ortografico e grammaticale, in particolare, qui, il correttore, o chi per lui, deve aver litigato da piccolo con condizionali e congiuntivi.
The third installment of the Forsyte Saga. Beautifully written, with rich and complex characters. Lovely.Also, Irene has got somw weird voodoo because no male can not fell automatically in love with her.. which is weird.It's really interesting to read the turn of the centuries from the 19th and the 20th via the lives and deaths of characters. Very nice.
The next section of The Forsyte Saga, and I liked it even better than the first one. We get to know Sommes even more, and he’s the perfect character to love to hate. He’s absolutely fascinating! I adore all these miserable characters. Such a wonderful book. Looking forward to the last book of this series.
I liked this better than the first book. The character development was better and the action more compelling for the most part. I'm not terribly interested in the third generation yet, so the bits that focused on them weren't nearly as good. Still, I'm invested in the story enough to care what happens to them all at this point so I'll stick to it to the bitter end.
This book is the second book of the Forsyte Chronicles. A lot happens, or rather, very nearly happens. It feels like everything is lining up for a grande finale.
Book two of the Forsyte Saga, and this time I had an easier time remembering who's who in the family. Engaging, witty, and biting, it is a lot of fun.
There are side stories that inform the novel and propel the Forsytes forward into a new generation: the dissolution of Soames’ sister’s marriage; the courtship of Dartie and Holly, Soames’ nephew and Jolyon’s daughter; young Jolyon and Dartie’s rivalry and their decision to go to war; and still we have the cast of characters, from James to June; and the many other Forsytes who flit around the central story of Soames and Jolyon.
There are a few love stories throughout the book; Soames’ cynical and self-absorbed courtship of Annette; the young love affair of Dartie and Holly; and the slow development of Irene and Jolyon.
~THE VOID OF LIFE~The Forsyte Saga, Book TwoA man in search of warmth he can call his own; a man in search for stability he can rely upon, a man in search of an heir who will stand strong in his spot when the time comes.
That cursed attraction of her was there for him even now, after all these years of estrangement and bitter thoughts."When I ask myself, what did the author wish to do in this book, I have the only answer that comes to my heart: the void of our desires makes us underdogs of the drama of life.
It may be The Forsyte Saga but this book, like the first, is very much the story of Soames and, to a lesser extent, Young Jolyon, with Irene featured only so far as she is part of the life of one or the other.
In the first novel that world was complete in itself.
In this novel we see just what a small world it is and how it has become remote from the bigger, changing world that surrounds it, which will, I feel, absorb it.Soames is a difficult and wonderful creation.
Continuation of the Forsyte Saga
Soames remains married to Irene due to his inability to see that he has totally lost his wife's affections and that she will never return to him.
(I spent a fair amount of time wondering why he couldn't obtain one seeing as Irene has deserted him and refused to come back but I guess the laws were much different back then and divorce was not nearly so easy as it is today).
Along with all of these heart burnings time is passing for the Forsyte family.
