https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72997.Fables_for_Our_Time_and_Famous_Poems_Illustrated
The world’s a fine and terrible place. Thurber approaches it armed with wit and an ability to find humor where there is none. In these modern times, it’s the only way to go ~ unless you can follow this sage piece of advice:“Run, don’t walk, to the nearest desert island” (70).
Τρίτο βιβλιαράκι του Τζέιμς Θέρμπερ που διαβάζω, μετά το πολύ ωραίο παραμύθι φαντασίας "Το άσπρο ελάφι" που διάβασα τον Μάρτιο του 2016 και το ιδιαίτερα ευχάριστο αυτοβιογραφικό έργο με τον τίτλο "Αναμνήσεις" που διάβασα τον Δεκέμβριο του 2017, και δηλώνω για άλλη μια φορά ευχαριστημένος. Πρόκειται για μια μικρή συλλογή κάμποσων μύθων με τα απαραίτητα ηθικά διδάγματα/επιμύθια, που ίσως φέρουν χαμόγελο στα χείλη των αναγνωστών, αλλά ίσως τους βάλει να σκεφτούν και κάποια πράγματα για την ανθρώπινη φύση. Όπως και να'χει, πέρασα εξαιρετικά όμορφα, αν και δυστυχώς δεν κράτησε και πολλή ώρα.
Somewhere along the line -- largely because of The 13 Clocks, I'm guessing -- Thurber has suffered the same fate as Mark Twain in that he's become known as an avuncular old man who told some funny stories and was generally amusing. You'll be disabused of that notion pretty quickly after you finish this book. Go read "The Fairly Intelligent Fly" or "The Sheep in Wolf's Clothing" if you don't believe me. Thurber happens to be hilarious, but he bites.
An amusing collection of short stories that stand the test of time surprisingly well. Perfect to read before bedtime or when you have a little bit of free time. Some of my favorite quotes from the book:- "'Man is flying too fast for a world that is round,' he said. 'Soon he will catch up with himself, in a great rear-end collision, and Man will never know that what hit Man from behind was Man.'"- "'...he remarked that, to him, you looked like a limousine come to grief at an intersection.'"- "He who lives another's life another's death must die."
I know Thurber more for Walter Mitty and The Catbird Seat, but someone from my book club selected his fables, so I dove in.
Thurber invokes a voice very specific to the early 20th Century.
He is dry, aloof, disenchanted and slowing burning with frustration.
He's from the first generation of office workers, men a bit castrated by desk jobs, by micromanaging bosses, and by women whose ambitions are frustrated by strict gender roles.
His fables often start with the zinger and then he builds a narrative backwards to describe a ridiculous situation.
Read one fable a night. Funny and spot on.
Es un libro de fábulas, pero de Thurber y de los años 40. Es decir, absurdo y políticamente incorrecto. Lo busqué por la fábula de la polilla y la estrella y no me decepcionó.
At a later point in my education I read some of the more famous fables in High School English class.This collection brings together the fables and some of the poems for which Thurber provided illustrations.
The fables include both the better-known ones like "The Unicorn in the Garden" and "The Little Girl and the Wolf", and some less well known tales that include "The Mouse Who Went to the Country", "The Lion Who Wanted to Zoom", and "The Moth and the Star".
Each fable has a moral that is often some practical bit of wisdom.The poems are such that you might want to memorize like Longfellow's "Excelsior" and "Oh When I was .
I bought this book in Baltimore and how appropriate that the Baltimore Oriole makes an appearance in two of the fables?
Like what every fable should do, the absurdities and unfairnesses of life are presented.
That's just how life goes, my friends.
Towards the end of the book are some similarly ill-fated 17th century poems that Thurber chose to illustrate.
My favorite poem was "Curfew Must Not Ring Tonight" in which a valiant woman saves her husband from impending death.
Just when I was used to the ill-fated endings in this book, I was shocked that she did, miraculously, save her husband.

It was nice to pick up this book on a day when I got some really saddening news for while it is occasionally dark, it's mostly a light-hearted, whimsical take on the concept of fables.
There will be an amusing story, followed by a moral which is sometimes just a funny variation of a well known aphorism, sometimes quite on point, sometimes quite contrary to the point you might expect to take, sometimes surprisingly profound and sometimes completely out of left field.I like the simplistic art style.
It's fun.The fables themselves are only 100 pages.
The last 50 pages are poems that Thurber has illustrated, pretty straight up.
James Thurber retells some fables, with FABulous results! He provides some revised morals: A new broom may sweep clean, but never trust an old saw. You might as well fall flat on your face as lean over too far backward. It is better to ask some of the questions than to know all the answers. Whom God has equipped with flippers should not monkey around with zippers. Youth will be served, frequently with chestnuts. Now don't you want to read the fables to go with such wise morals?Thurber also provides some witty illustrations for Famous Poems.
I must admit that I only read a few of the poems. That being said, I thoroughly enjoyed the fables. They're quick, and I loved that so many of them were still quite timely considering this has a 1940 copyright ("The Very Proper Gander" and " The Rabbits Who Caused All the Trouble"), funny (anything that makes me laugh--more guffaw, really--out loud in a crowded place gets my vote) and/or just plain quirky.
Thurber is classic. Very twentieth century and utterly lost on my English book club mates. I have loved his fractured fairy tales since the eighth grade. Some pretty pertinent satire from the author of "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty."
Fables For Our Time: and Famous Poems Illustrated by James Thurber (Harper Collins 1974)(818). First published in 1943, this is an uproarious collection of well-known fables retold in the twisted manner of Thurber. My rating: 7/10, finished 1973.
I love the first part of this book, Thurber's very witty Fables for Our Time, but Thurber's illustrations detracted from the famous poems he included at the end. . . The fables made for wonderful reading before bed. . .
This was my first introduction to Thurber, and I thought it was hilarious. I did think he should have ended it after his last fable. I didn't really need to read other poet's poems that he did illustrations too ... if they were original, that'd be another story.
One of the morals related is "Never let a nervous woman have a pistol."
Excellent!!!
the one thing that annoys me about this book is how good it is.
Sexist. And incredibly not funny.
Thurbers tales and poems are fantastic and all the illustrations are sublime. Wish this was still in print.
Great fun.
solid gold.
Hah hah hah hah hah hah!!!!If you don't like this book, you're an asshole.Sorry, I know that's pretty rude, but I'm just calling it like I see it.
