https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/336060.Elements_of_Semiology
If you are looking for a primer, or at least a solid piercing into the semiological membrane, there are far superior works to be had, such as the wonderful "Semiology: The Basics" by Daniel Chandler or "Structural Poetics" by Culler.
This book, it seems to me, was meant as a fast and dirty reference for a class or a seminar of Barthes: it rarely defines its terms, it seems disorganized and is also very dry unlike some of others wonderful work, it just lists methods without any reason why one should be interested.
واحد من الكتب العظيمة رغم صغر حجمه..
مقالات متنوعة، بعضها مكرر في الكتب الأخرى، لكنّه ثقيل من حيث طريقة معالجة الأفكار المطروحة، ويستحق الكتاب قراءة أكثر من مرة، ولاسيما في القضايا التي تتعلق باللغة والتعامل معها ومع الأدب، والكتاب يطرح الأسئلة ويثوّر أخرى في ذهن المتلقي
الكتاب تجسيد للإشكاليات الأدبية واللغوية بكثافتها، واختلاف مدارسها وأجناسها الفكرية، بما فيها اشتغالات القراءة كمنهجية متعددة و كفعل نامي عن اللغة بوصفها بنية ذهنية.
Much of the basis of semiology comes from Saussure's Course in General Linguistics (which I've read in part), but then there were a few other theorists who took Saussure's work in different directions and challenged some of his precepts.
There were some sections where he got bogged down a bit in the terminology (many of the words in semiotics are somewhat similar and it is easy to misread--signifier and signified are the big two concepts and they are only one letter apart), but I think these sections are more a result of the material than Barthes' style.
E' un testo molto agile, utilissimo per chi ha bisogno di reperire velocemente informazioni sul mondo della semiologia.
In più, è il testimone di un'epoca in cui gli studi semiologici stavano formandosi: tant'è che si noterà subito come Barthes cerchi di adattare studi linguistici al mondo dei segni in generale (non solo linguistici, ma anche oggetti, immagini, suoni).
Per quanto piccolo, il testo è molto denso e va letto con particolare attenzione.
Non privo di tecnicismi, bisogna comprenderne per bene il significato prima di poter continuare con la lettura.
La semiologia, quindi, permette di estrapolare questa 'partigianeria' dagli oggetti per poter capire meglio il mondo (e per potersene difendere).
١.ومن خلال هذه المقتطفات يظهر تأكيد بارت على ضرورة تحليل صوت السلطة الخفى فى الأدب، سواء إنتاجه أو تدريسه، والفكرة المجردة الحلمية الممثلة فيما يسمى بالنص، فى مقابل الأثر، تظهر كيوتوبيا، لغوية فى المقام الأول، ثم اجتماعية، تختفى فيها السلطة، فالنص هو فضاء محايد ومفتوح، هو نقل شفاف ل" بنية اللغة"، البنية الذهنية الممثلة فى اللغة، والتى تسمح بفضاء مفتوح من اللعب، ويتوازى هذا مع فكرة المقالة الأخيرة عن "موت المؤلف" ، انتفاء سلطة المؤلف وتلاشى ذاته، تلاشى سلطة معارفه وتاريخه واعترافاته، فالكتابة الحقة، كتابة النصوص، تجعل ذات المؤلف تتلاشى، لا تتأكد، تتلاشى أمام بنية أسبق تتخلل الكيان الشفاف للكاتب، الذى يصبح بذلك مجرد "ناسخ" لا"مؤلف".
To say there's a lot to unpack in this little volume is an understatement.
I know that I am not this book's target audience by any means (that would be linguists) but I do appreciate the way that Barthes forces you to think more about the language that you use, and how that language constructs reality in a way that often gets overlooked.
Later the book delves into arenas I am nowhere near capable of grasping at this point, and so the back half really remains something of a mystery, but I enjoyed my time with the book all around.
This is a great example of bad thinking: "everyone who is writing is right!" or "there is no clear analytic paradigm so every idea is paradigmatic for research purposes." Barthes is neither clear nor analytic in his terminology; he often conflates different types of signifying systems (or media a'la McLuhan) or levels of signification in a single system (say, elements like phonemes, graphemes, and words in a written/spoken language like English); and his way of connecting ideas at times feels haphazard.
It is like reading the bad notes of a classmate, or of someone new to a feild of thinking and finding everything fasinating and important.Avoid!
This little book is dense as hell and highly technical. I'm not sure how much of it I got. I mean, I understood the themes and whatever, but there's a lot of systematic stuff in here and the thing could almost be read as a textbook on a method for analyzing words.
A very complex subject discussed in a very complex fashion.Maybe it can be of more use if you have plenty of years of training prior to reading of it.
Dalam buku ini juka dijelaskan bahwa Saussure membagi Language (bahasa) menjadi 2 yaitu: Langue dan parole.
Derrida juga menolak pandangan Saussure tersebut menurut fisuf yang terkenal dengan dekonstruksinya tersebut, karena pembagian bahasa seperti yang dilakukan Saussure hanya menyebabkan kita jatu pada logosentris, Logocentris adalah pola pemikiran yang meyakini suatu hal dan berdampak menolak realitas yang sebenarnya.Dalam karyanya ini barthes menolak dan merevisi pandangan Saussure, dia menggunakan konsep penanda dan petanda.
Jika dalam penandaan (Penanda dan Petanda = tanda) tingkat 2 sendiri kata mawar bisa menjadi memliki makna yang banyak.
Kalau butuh buku yang lebih praktikal, tinggalkan buku ini. Sempat frustrasi di halaman sekitar 70-90 dan sempat berniat kasih tiga bintang hhhBerita bagusnya dari buku-buku semacam ini adalah betapa bibliografinya sungguh faedah~
Barthes valiantly attempts to articulate what the science of Semiology must strive to be - something which Saussure had called for in his Course on General Linguistics.
Barthes makes some really creative moves like treating language as 'writing' within a semiological analysis, which at first seems to contradict the idea that language is an abstract entity only articulated through the performance of speech.
At this point in his career, however, with his conclusion adhering to the necessity of finding a way to limit one's analysis as much as possible to the synchronic (as opposed to diachronic) he remains firmly attached to the 'scientific' nature of structuralism.
This little book, The Elements of Semiology, stays true to its title. It is not an exhaustive summary of an established science of signs, but rather an analytically sharp series of pithy explorations of concepts (mostly oppositional), which Barthes thought essential to the development of semiology as a science, namely: language/speech; signifier/signified; syntagm/system; and connotation/metalanguage. After reading its 98 pages, I think it was most valuable for me as a commentary on the work of
It is not an exhaustive summary of an established science of signs, but rather an analytically sharp series of pithy explorations of concepts (mostly oppositional), which Barthes thought essential to the development of semiology as a science, namely: language/speech; signifier/signified; syntagm/system; and connotation/metalanguage.
For example, in regards to binary classifications, he writes that “we may wonder whether this is not a classification which is both necessary and transitory: in which case binarism also would be a metalanguage, a particular taxonomy meant to be swept away by history, after having been true to it for a moment” (82).
Barthes writes elegantly and I really enjoyed slowly reading this.
This book can be read as the follow-up to Ferdinand de Saussure's "Course In General Linguistics".
In the latter, de Saussure opens the door to a study of signs, in general, and calls this study "Semiology".
He argues that Linguistics is just a lesser element in Semiology.
Roland Barthes, in "Elements of Semiology", continues where de Saussure left off, but also attempts to tackle some of the problems that the Structuralists (the name given to those theorists and philosophers that had been directly influenced by de Saussure's work) had encountered by his time.
He does a great job on all accounts.
A must read!
Barthes' introduction to (structural) semiology is interesting though quite partial. Kristeva's essays ("Le langage cet inconnu") is more general and less oriented, while the works of Hjlemslev and Greimas ("Analyse structurale du récit") more enlightening if one is to get an idea of the way a story works. But still, Barthes is readable and gives a few indication I stil remember about how connotation works.
An interesting though now dated introduction to key concepts in semiotics, primarily building off of Saussure, with a few nuggets of critical theory wisdom, though scattered and sometimes buried in unnecessary elaboration and analogy. Overall, a useful book for its balance of essential semiotics and more intricate philosophical exploration on Barthes' inchoate ideas.
I read this one on the tail of Sontag and some later Barthes (On Photography and Camera Lucida) but this was impenetrable for me. It may be the best book on Semiotics ever written; I don't know. I am not the intended audience. This is strictly for the academics and those with a pointed interest in Saussure, etc.
Unnecessarily convoluted and just a collection of what everybody else but Barthes thinks. Not a good book to start with in regards to semiotics. I would recommend something more simple like Sebeok, who writes about the same concepts but it's more accessible in terms of vocabulary and style.
just the italian version, by Einaudi .. . . ..
For the depth of abstraction Barthes is referring to, he uses far too much figurative speech. (Yes, of course, all speech is figurative, but seriously.)
Pengantar yang baik untuk punggawa sastra amatir
ruwet
منذ زمن لم أستمتع بنصّ عن الكتابة و الأدب كهذا , كتاب صغير يضم مجموعة من الدراسات كتبها رولان بارت , و من ضمنها خطبته في افتتاح مقعد السيميولوجيا في الكولاج دو فرانس , و مقاله عن موت المؤلف .
I have fond memories of this book and my early college days. A clear and easy doorway to Barthes work.
Not Barthes' sexiest book, but he definitely makes the technical nature of the subject a lot more digestible.
I will read it 5 mores times to get it. I whish there was somebody I can discuss it with, so they explain to me the many things I didn't catch :)
Barthes is a lucid thinker. The book would however have benefited from additional concrete examples.
while i had been a fan of umberto eco for some time, this book was my first contact with the study of semiology. i do prefer eco.
