https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22595.Vulcan_s_Hammer
In the near term, world militaries are considering autonomous-weapon systems that can choose and eliminate targets.” and “humans, limited by slow biological evolution, couldn’t compete and would be superseded by A.I.” - Stephen Hawking, 2014 interviews.Like with most of Dick's writing, he was there, near first in line looking over that technological event horizon with his unique blend of gallows humor, optimism, and ability to find the grit and the slime even in the slickest of futures.
But anyway, my point is in this books and several other Dick really trims the books down.
I'm not sure the technological singularity is going to be a steep cliff.
Dick was published in 1960 and is one of his more action packed offerings.
Released by pulp generator Ace Books, I could not help wandering how a phone conversation between Dick and his editor went “we could use more action, laser beams and robots, the kids LOVE laser beams and robots”.
Well, bills have to be paid and books need to be published to be read.
The interventions of a rebel force make things more interesting, and PKD throws in some fun twists.
1960, fairly early on, so not much drug use or theological ravings, but still a fun trip with Phil.
As such, I’ve been on a rather satisfying science fiction binge lately, running the gamut from urban fantasy to a classic approach to that most-satisfying of dystopias, the War Against the Machines.
Dick.In Dick’s budding dystopia, humans have outsourced all decision making to Vulcan, a supercomputer that is two parts SkyNet to one part Mycroft Holmes (the genial AI that assisted the miner’s rebellion in Heinlein’s The Moon is a Harsh Mistress) that is fed endless streams of information in order to better facilitate its decision-making.
Humans are endlessly fickle though and, while many happily line up to serve as Vulcan’s agents at large, a faction comprised of mystics and luddites arises that seeks to destroy Vulcan and the new serfdom that it has inadvertently created.
Inoltre in molti punti è scritto anche maluccio.In un mondo arrivato a un passo dell'estinzione i governi mondiali decidono di demandare le scelte più importanti riguardanti la Terra a una classe di elaboratori di calcolo estremamente all'avanguardia denominata "Vulcano".Sepolto nel buio in perpetuo isolamento, qualunque uomo avrebbe finito per impazzire, avrebbe perduto tutti i contatti col mondo esterno, non sarebbe mai riuscito a immaginare quello che stava succedendo.
Non mi dilungo troppo su questa figura perché il suo ruolo è molto poco strutturato.Gli aspetti che non mi hanno convinto(view spoiler)[Sono stati creati i Vulcano per evitare la brama di potere e il fine egoistico dell'uomo e poi  chi rendiconta le notizie dal mondo è un solo uomo?
These machines' decisions will be based purely on logic, war will come to an end, but of course an elaborate police system must be put into place to maintain this logical utopia.
The current director maintains a fondness for dusty old Vulcan II.
There's something a little creepy about Vulcan III with its digital screens and its suspicion that its humans are not telling it the whole story.
Of course, Vulcan III decides to matters into its own hands.Dick's novel has all the pieces in place but then has nowhere to go with them.
Vulcan's Hammer is a curiously prophetic book about computers taking charge of humanity -- and this at a time before computers could realistically be perceived as a threat.
I've been working with computers since 1964, and in 1960, when the novel by Philip K.
There are three centers of force in Vulcan's Hammer: the Unity organization, which serves the computer; the "Healers," who want to sabotage Unity; and the computer itself, Vulcan 3, which as the book goes on, becomes a force of and by itself.This is not one of Dick's more popular novels, but it is still good.
Not one of the deeper or more inventive novels by Dick, still a very pleasant read, with Dick's unique brand of paranoia against machines (both self-providing behemoths and lethal, slithering micromachines), paranoia between men in power, loathing of Fifties' conformist Philistines and "corporate warriors", rebellious cultists.Not very clear the role of Marion Fields, the child of the rebel leader, nor the rationale of the killing of the teacher, but this may be due to cuts in Italian edition.
One of the most accessible and straightforward PKD novels I've read so far. "Vulcan's Hammer" is more pulp than thought-provoking scifi, but still an enjoyable read, well paced and suspenceful. And pretty short.
After having read 29 novels and dozens of short stories by my favorite author, this one surprised me with joy.
Many of the other 29 novels I have read by PKD have lovely tangents, eddies in the current of the main plot, flavor added by PKD because of his strangely wonderful sensibilities, but VULCAN'S HAMMER is a tight laser beam of a plot.
This has the clear plot of PKD's earlier work but still touches on the philosophical posers PKD fills his later works with.
In later works, his questioning of what makes us human squeezes out plot, but this novel raises the questions with a (for PKD) clear cut answer.
Wow. I love dystopias and I love PKD.
I'm surprised this book doesn't rate better overall and rate better against PKDs other works.
It seems polarizing, some dismissing it as one of his weaker novels, but looking over reviews here, it seems many readers consider this one of their all-time favorites, not just Dick favorites.
For those that like it, the clear, concise, and focused writing seems to draw them and me in.
Its a basic straightforward dystopia and man vs supercomputer story, and it works.
The clear writing makes me think this would also be a great choice for younger readers, it is certainly accessible for teens.
Little subterfuge or deeper meaning here, just another straight-out sci-fi action yawnfest of a sturdy individual fighting an oppressed society.I was relieved to read in a book of interviews with Philip K Dick I was reading concurrently as I read his books (as a sort of "audio commentary" to them) that he felt this and Dr. Futurity were his weakest works, and after writing them he realized if he didn't delve deeper into what he wanted to accomplish as a writer (as he did immediatly afterward with the Man in the High Castle) there would no joy or worth in writing anymore.
80 pages in I'm thinking 'well this one's a real stinker" but the parallel's of how modern AI is driven by an overwhelming amount of data to which it may lack a nuanced response or a predictable/rational response to is uncanny.
& later on it's revealed that Fields both maintained & destroyed it, so you'd think he'd know how to do the job rightFunny oxymoron on 105: he's looking for a car with any capacity..
far out)68 breaks scene from Dills to Barris without blank line76 opens dialogue with a single quote instead of a double quote81 lose - loose101 tap -tape103 reaced - reached140 of - off143 more mobile cannon - cannons
The book in question, "Vulcan’s Hammer," originally appeared in the shorter form in a 1956 issue of the 35-cent "Future Science Fiction" magazine; its first appearance as a short novel came in '60, as one half of one of those cute little "Ace doubles" (D-457, for all you collectors out there), backed by John Brunner's "The Skynappers." And although Dick's enthusiasm for his sci-fi work may have reached its nadir here, before zooming off into a decade of prodigious output and greatness, his novel in question, as it turns out, is not an uninteresting one; this author, it seems, could not write an uninteresting book if he tried.In "Vulcan’s Hammer," the year is 2029--a safe 70 years after the time of its creation.
Good paranoiac funMy year of Dick continues with this wild version of the 1960s sf trope of the all-powerful computer overlord that started out as a tool to help humans govern without bias. Lots of twists along the usual phildickian lines of paranoia, rampant militarism, and criss-crossing loyalties. Very fun but not as deep as I like from PKD.
I believe the concept of machines ruling the people was fresh at the time of novel release. But the story is poorly crafted and dialogs are way too simple.
Pulpy Dick.
For hardcore PKD fans only and even then you really have to squint to make it seem like passable read.
Но при этом он все равно остается машиной - грудой обыкновенного железа, постоянно нуждающегося в обслуживании.
Если точнее, то новелла с совершенно аналогичным названием увидела свет, когда писателю стукнуло только 26 лет, а за его плечами был всего лишь один развод и две-три заметные публикации.В контексте описываемого романа особенно любопытен недавний бурный дебат о “Филиппе Дике как дедушке американского киберпанка”.
Понятно, что здесь совсем как у Вачовских компьютерный мегамозг создает армию летающих осьминогов, которые уничтожают все живое на своем пути.
Ага-ага, некоторые образы этой книги, действительно, соответствуют современным канонам жанра, но при этом несут в себе совершенно иное смысловое наполнение.
Through the eyes of an upper level paper pusher (the director of North America), his boss, and a family of rebels the reader watches as two computers fight for dominance as they attempt to follow the now contradictory directives given to them: Keep humanity and themselves safe.Forty-seven years old now, the story is contradictorily quaint and up-to-date.
But then, in a moment of beautiful grace, Dick reminds the reader that “this is all they know.” He calls for us to recognize the humanity of the people we so desperately want to vilify.As far as the end of the great equation is concerned, Dick moves beyond the expected outcomes and reaches a conclusion that allows for free will, governments and machines.
Dick's Vulcan's Hammer was a good, quick, and entertaining book to read.
Why hasn't Vulcan III issued any proclamations on the Healers over the 15+ months they've been revolting against Unity?
Is Dill withholding information from the computer for some obscure reason?This is one of Dick's most straightforward and "sci fi" books he wrote.
Civil war occurs, the Healers try to take over, Vulcan III starts operating on its own, and everything becomes crazy.
What isn't here is Dick's oft-used dealings with alternate realities, and I was a bit taken aback by that.
Doesn't every Dick novel deal with alternate realities?
aren't you putting your faith in a machine?"After an atomic war, the nations of the world come together under a paranoid technocracy run by the Unity organization, where all major decisions have been abdicated to an impartial, unemotional super-computer called Vulcan 3.For something like fifty years further war has been avoided, but not everyone's happy.
Dick, bu kez felsefi yönünden çok politik yönü ağır basan ve yine ince eleştiriler dahil pek çok şey barındıran Vulcan'ın Çekici'yle karşımızda.
Bilimkurgunun önde gelen isimlerinden iyi eserlerin yayımlandığı bu serideki diğer pek çok kitap gibi tekrar basılma şansı bulamadı ve uzun yıllardır raflarda yok.
Yazarın daha iyi kitaplarını okumakla birlikte ben Vulcan'ın Çekici'ni beğendim.
Dikkat çekici unsurlarıyla ilk sayfadan dikkatinizi cezbetmeyi başarıyor, yer yer şaşırtıyor ve bir miktar da aksiyon içeriyor.
Ben birkaç kitapla birlikte okudum ve birtakım zaman sıkıntısı yaşadım ama aslında tek oturuşta dahi bitirilebilecek bir kitaptı.
Çeviri de değişmiş.
Genel anlamda her iki çeviri de sorunsuz.
I can't say whether this novel would be more fun to read back when it was written or nowadays.
It's intriguing now because it's funny to see what people thought the future was going to look like, what their fears about the future were, and how much their "future" still looked like their current day (particularly in this case by how Unity is run by white men), but it's also kind of boring in that the technology today is a far more high-tech now than Dick predicted.
So, overall, it's basically a novel about Skynet's shittier cousin but is enjoyable enough to read.
From my understanding (based on the Wikipedia Bibliography) this was written in 1953 and was PKD's first scifi novel.
I don't know if this was a common story-type but it predates Asimov's first "Multivac" story by two years.
And that the "Vulcan 3" AI in this story becomes sentient, makes it predate Heinlein's "The Moon is a Harsh Mistress" by thirteen years.It is a competently written 50's 'yarn' by a young man who was just getting started in a career that within a decade, he would be known of as a master of the genre.
Not one of his more enjoyable ones for me, but it was still entertaining. My main problem with it was the characters were going into the situation with one train of thought and halfway through, without any evidence they had the solution that is completely opposite from what they went in the meeting with and without any new input. It made it choppy for me. Otherwise, it was a good sci-fi dystopia novel.
There are no words to describe the genius of PKD. I am once again, stunned. I laughed, I cried. My mind was blown WIDE open, like it is every single time I read his work.This book was written in 1960 and it is 100% relevant today. He has (again!) peeled back the veil of Maya expertly, so we dummies may be enlightened and astounded. Thank you, Phil.
I LOVED this book, it dives into my favourite theme (that being the relationship between humans and machines) and exploits it so perfectly well. The characters are absolutely amazing, they look and feel real, even though they may behave in a somehow stereotypical way sometimes.
Very early PKD and it shows. Some of his recurring themes would begin to show here, but they are not fully matured. Very pulpy, and overall not his greatest work.
And although Dick’s enthusiasm for his sci-fi work may have reached its nadir here, before zooming off into a decade of prodigious output and greatness, his novel in question, as it turns out, is not an uninteresting one; this author, it seems, could not write an uninteresting book if he tried.In Vulcan’s Hammer, the year is 2029 — a safe 70 years after the time of its creation.
Eventually, as the old Vulcan 2 computer is destroyed, more and more Unity members are slain, and mysterious flying superweapons begin appearing, it grows apparent that a third player — aside from the Unity and Healers groups — has entered the fray.
Written in 1960, it tells the story of a world ruled by a totalitarian world government, which is controlled by a near omniscient super-computer AI,Vulcan 3.
After nearly obliterating mankind in war, humans ceded ultimate control of government to a computer, thinking it would be immune to the petty emotions which lead to conflict.In this world, William Barris, a middle manager of the government starts to find out that the utopian world isn't quite as shiny and wonderful as he used to think, when he starts investigating the death of one of his field agents.
