https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107053.Batman
And of course, the Joker shows up (the only regular Batman rogue to appear in the Daily Strips) with a series of symbol crimes.
The writing was still generally okay but we went days and sometimes weeks at a time without seeing Batman and Robin in costume.
There was the "Karen Drew Mystery" which saw neither Batman nor Robin in costume for it's five week run.
Another strip I counted and there were 50 daily strips run during one series with Batman or Robin only showing up in costume in three.
It's a daily newspaper strip, so the art is occasionally cramped and doesn't have the room to be as creative as the comic books might've been.
mobsters and counterfeiters and such.The most absurd strip has Batman trying to find a vacant apartment for the daughter of a city industrialist who provides considerable funding to the police; and apparently there are NO vacant apartments in all of Gotham, so Batman opts to capture a criminal, thus creating a vacancy!
The problem is that readers can see how bad it is now that the dailies have been collected in three volumes.
This final volume has some relief in a story drawn by the great Batman artist Dick Sprang before he became a great Batman artist.
Still, it is a big improvement over the stories by Batman co-creator Bob Kane that make up most of this book.
There is also a bit of relief in the last story in which inker Charles Paris seems to have done some of the penciling for Kane, or at least improved on Kane’s roughs.
In addition to the comic books, there was a BATMAN AND ROBIN comic strip in newspapers from 1943.
The five stories reprinted here are from 1944-5 and very in quality.
One is a kind of film-noir and a lot of fun.
Batman does not appear in costume and it is the only story not drawn by Bob Kane.
The first story is decent, but the others are misfires, all of them some kind of dumb.
I award two stars for average story quality, and an extra because it is wonderful that they stories are available again for fans to read and others to study
Dieser Band ist für Comic-Liebhaber ein Fest. Alleine der riesige Aufwand, alle die alten Zeitunsstrips zu finden und aufzubereiten, ist den Kaufpreis mehr als Wert. Sehr spannend ist die Entwicklung des Comics, die sich hier gut beobachten läßt. Vor allem die Panels, die den Film-Noir-Techniken der 40iger Jahre anempfunden sind, sind ein Fest für die Augen. Licht und Schatten, verschiedene "Kameraperspektiven", alles ist da. Golden Age at its best. Dieses Buch ist uneingeschränkt empfehlenswert
Dieser Band ist für Comic-Liebhaber ein Fest. Alleine der riesige Aufwand, alle die alten Zeitunsstrips zu finden und aufzubereiten, ist den Kaufpreis mehr als Wert. Sehr spannend ist die Entwicklung des Comics, die sich hier gut beobachten läßt. Vor allem die Panels, die den Film-Noir-Techniken der 40iger Jahre anempfunden sind, sind ein Fest für die Augen. Licht und Schatten, verschiedene "Kameraperspektiven", alles ist da. Golden Age at it´s best. Dieses Buch ist uneingeschränkt empfehlenswert.
Worth reading.
