https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/222998.The_Year_of_the_Intern
I hope Robin Cook got it all out here.
The medical student with high ideals is spit out the end of the year of internship demoralized, disillusioned and disrespectful.
Even though this is a perpetual rail against the system, I enjoy Cook's writing.
I do hope his later books have less self-pity, but it got his point across here.I've seen his books around for years, but this is the first I've read.
I don't know if this is his first book, but I was surprised to find that he has been writing since the early 70s.
Essential to understand the brain and personality change that is part of becoming a MD.
My internship wasn't as exhaustive or as gruesome, but still I remember being on my toes for most of the year, and losing weight drastically despite stuffing myself whenever I had time (which I of course was happy about as I was on the chubbier side then).
It was a bitter sweet time and I am somehow in that internship mood the past few days remembering my colleagues, seniors and teachers with stray incidents buzzing around in my head, and its difficult to imagine that I am far off now, both literally and figuratively.
I pick up a Robin Cook and I expect a medical thriller.
I kept reading and reading waiting for the story to pick up but the torrent of medical stories kept coming and coming.
I finally flipped over to the back cover and realized that this is really a precursor to the medical blog and not a thriller at all.
Some of the medical stories were interesting but there was a bit of repetition of ideas and I really could have done without all the discussion of the intern’s sex life (it isn’t graphic or anything just totally uninteresting).


Me gustó este libro porque retrata el sentir, los temores, los sueños de los jóvenes futuros médicos.
Sin embargo, el "sistema" acaba por destruir los ideales que esos jóvenes tienen y van cayendo todos en la "mediocridad" por así decirlo.
Por otro lado, ahora comprendo más la forma de ser de ciertos médicos (no todos son iguales)a quienes uno considera algo inhumanos, pero hay que ponerse en los zapatos de ellos: tampoco pueden estar cargando con los problemas de todos y cada uno de sus pacientes ni involucrarse con ellos puesto que eso sólo los desgaste física y mentalmente.
Buen libro.
so relatable...simply loved the book....his struggle, frustration, emotional dilemma, triumph and finally survival as an intern to resident..the book succeeds in telling how the system kills the empathy in you at some or the other time...although the intern seemed very frivolous and careless at times to me..like when he wasnt sure whether his patient was dead or alive,he could have simply got an EKG and confirmed rather than speculating....anyway i loved his hilarious acts in his ER posting... :D
I'm hoping to get into medical school, which especially made this book impotent for me. The story of an Intern at a Hawaiian hospital. This story is humorous, darkly introspective and opens up the world and mind of the average intern. Being on-call, dealing with death, coping with a social life (or lack of one). This is a book that I have already read twice and shall keep on my Favorites list for many years to come.
However, his busy schedule leads to stress and fatigue hence gradually changing him into the type of doctor he never wanted to be - one who's detached and views each case as a specific disease or procedure instead of a sick human being whose health matters.Written based on the author's personal experience, this book provided great insight into what it's like to be in the medical field as well as its day-to-day operations.
The lead character, Dr. Peters, experiences what the author and his fellow interns at the time went through.
Though the book wasn’t a story as much as a series of events, it kept me in suspense about how Peters would manage, (and) what crisis would happen next.
This was a well written learning experience for the author, and a worthy work in itself.From reading this I can understand why my Mom has said nurses shouldn’t date (medical) doctors.
Though his sci-fi based thrillers are more pure fun, none is more informative or fascinating that this first novel.
This book is a lot to swallow as a student nurse with little to no idea what the intern (doctor) is describing and telling his readers.
This books actually adds on to my checklist whether I'd still push through medical school and go through hell like every intern has to face or stick with my incoming RN days instead.
Overall I totally recommend this book to those wants to get a glimpse of what an actually intern is — it's not that far from Grey's Anatomy by the way.

I've always known that Lives of Medical professionals aren't easy.. But to read in depth about their lifestyle's, their pains, their struggles and the consequential indifference brought on by their jobs is heart breaking. Based entirely on the US model of medical professionalism, while reading i was silently hoping the Indian medical scenario is a little better. The book itself is a wonderful read, another masterpiece from Robin Cook!
Este es el único libro del magnífico autor Robin Cook que no me gustó, afortunadamente no fué el primero que leí y mi pasión por leerlo no se vió afectada, recomiendo totalmente a este autor, pero no puedo decir lo mismo de este libro en particular ( el tiene un montón más, por favor lean los otros)
An interesting insight in the hard life of an intern in an American hospital. I have no doubt that is largely an accurate reflection of the hardships, doubts and frustrations of an intern, as Cook emphasizes several times in his for- and afterword. A real let down is the fact that there is a lot of repetitiveness in the situations, getting boring, making me loose sympathy for Dr. Peters. The Year of the Intern also feels a bit outdated, and I wonder if it is still that bad. Or worse.
Si en el primer capítulo un residente de primer año tras certificar la muerte de su primer paciente (muerte no esperada y tras reanimación cardiopulmonar) lo primero que hace es llamar a su ligue de dos noches y echar un polvo rápido en la habitación de guardia para "aliviar tensiones emocionales" creo que este libro NO me representa y no me interesa en lo más mínimo seguir leyendo.
A total shock expecting another of Robin Cook's mystery novels, but an excellent story of a year in the life of an intern through the three days presented.
A bit slow; no plot.
meh.

Todo médico conoce el drama que conlleva el año del internado, con todo y sus peripecias tan similares a las descritas en el libro, uno al haber pasado por allí, comprende a la perfección al personaje principal (Dr. Peters) y finalmente te das cuenta que tanto el internado como la residencia sí cambian definitivamente tu personalidad y tristemente, muchas veces no es para bien. Es algo con que debería ser tratado pero el ego de la profesión lo impide.
Sabia, no entanto, que nas próximas horas teria de tomar decisões de vida ou de morte em relação aos seus pacientes, ajudar os cirurgiões desdenhosos na sala de operações, lidar com enfermeiras que talvez soubessem mais do que ele, enfrentar os familiares e amigos preocupados dos doentes e sinistrados e aparentar sempre algo que ainda não alcançara - tornar-se um médico cem por cento qualificado".Robin Cook culpa o sistema pela constatação de que a maioria dos estudantes que entram para a escola médica, cheios de visões idealistas sobre o alívio do sofrimento, a ajuda aos pobres, o fazer o bem, se transforma à saída na "reclamação do seu direito" de ter um grupo financeiramente compensador de doentes que lhe permita comprar casas e carros luxuosos, em recompensa das privações que passou nos seus anos de preparação.Estou convencida que não deve ser muito diferente a preparação dos nossos médicos em Portugal.Lá como cá....más fadas há!
Of course, science and technology have advanced by leaps and bounds, I believe the life of a medical student, intern, and then resident depicted here are still fairly accurate.One of my "life experiences" brought me to work with what is called a Standardized Patient Program.
This is a program I participated in at a local medical school/teaching hospital that helps medical students gain some experience, practice, and knowledge.
Although some programs and teaching practices have been updated, I imagine the life of an intern still remains very much the same as written by Robin Cook.
Este es el 4to libro que he leido de él y mientras algunos de sus libros son excelentes como "Epidemia" otros decepcionan.
Pero, "Medico Interno" no es un thriller, no es una historia con dramatismo y conspiracion medica.
Medico Interno son las memorias del Dr. Cook y de muchos otros durante sus años como internos.
"Uno estaba siempre tan ocupado o tan cansado o demasiado asustado para pensar"Me gusto mucho poder leer y ver las cosas desde los ojos y la mente de otra persona, saber que no soy la unica que trata de hacer lo mejor por el paciente y que haya causas externas a ti que te haran el trabajo dificil.

When he gets robbed of his treasure he feels that nothing good can ever happen in his life.
Until a little girl with golden hair ends up on his door step.
The girl whom he names Eppie becomes the centre of his life only to be brought face to face with a reality that threatens to take Eppie out of his life.Things I liked about this book:The idyllic life of Raveloe and the daily musings of the inhabitants has been captured in a heart warming way by Eliot.Silas’s love for his daughter Eppie and his transformation from a loner to an active member in the community.Things I disliked about the book : Nothing in particularOn my rating scale :4.5 to 5I wish I had read this book long time back as it was a pleasant change to read something with a slow pace and characters so real that you can actually imagine them going about their jobs in that fashion.
Sin duda existen varios puntos de toque entre las experiencias de Peters y las que como psicólogos encontramos durante la formación, y, de manera más importante, una vez fuera de ella, ante la clínica; Recordé que hace unos días escuchaba a un estudiante de penúltimo semestre preguntar indignado por qué tendría que pasar por un proceso psicológico personal, y cuál es el fundamento de esto.
Creo que más allá de proporcionarle el fundamento teórico existente, este libro pudiera ser una buena respuesta, aunque la mejor sería la de su propia experiencia.
Robin Cook fans are used to his fast-paced thrillers and this early book is nothing like his more recent novels.The Year of the Intern looks at the stressful and exhausting job a surgical intern has.
The book focuses on Dr. Peters' fear and his grief at the loss of patients.
It kind of got under my skin, making me fear being left in the hands of an intern at the hospital, but the actual story in the book left me wanting more.
If you're looking for suspenseful, medical thrillers, skip this one and stick with Robin Cooks later books.
I became a Robin Cook fan when a former student who was the wife of a local physician suggested I read "Mutation" many years ago.
Year of the Intern is one of his oldest books.
He is a physician and wrote this book in a semi-autobiographical manner describing the internship year of a medical doctor back when the 80 hours per week limit was not in place.
It is a book full of the medical experiences of a first year physician and pulls no punches.
An example: "But in American medicine, much of the difference between an intern and a full-fledged doctor is literally the difference between night and day.
