https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7967.Speaker_for_the_Dead
One of my ALL Time Favorites. I loved Ender's Game, but I think that this novel surpasses it on just about every level. Writing, emotional resonance, characterization and depth. This novel is a much more "adult" read than Ender's Game. It impacted me greatly and I found that it stayed with me long after I finished reading it. 6.0 stars. HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!Winner: Hugo Award Best Novel. Winner: Nebula Award Best Novel. Winner: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel. Nominee: Campbell Award Best SF Novel.
'Speaker' is preachy and allegorical, and the characters often devolve into simple mouthpieces for the author's opinions, which are numerous, long, and not particularly original.While I do respect that every author has his own point of view, and that one should be able to glean some understanding from their books, such a heavy-handed case detracts from the story and characters as a whole.
The second novel has a transparency of motive that, for me, destroyed both believability and the central flow of the story.
Orson Scott Card has said that Speaker for the Dead is the book he always "meant to write" and that the only reason he wrote Ender's Game was as a "prequel," so he felt a little baffled when Ender's Game ended up becoming his most famous and most read work.
One thing I love about Orson Scott Card -- which I somehow always end up forgetting when I'm not reading him -- is that, despite the fact that he writes fairly "hard science fiction," his stories are still completely character driven.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became a father.
it’s fascinating stuff.But it's the individuals who populate this world – Ender who is the very epitome of his race, the killer seeking redemption, the last Hive Queen, Jane, the insecure AI, Ender’s genius sister, Valentine, Novinho, the brilliant but bitter xenobiologist who Ender is determined to make accept his love – her dysfunctional family!
When I first read this book I was in middle school and I hated it.
It was such a disappointment as a follow up to the brilliance of Ender's Game.
I re-read it when in grad school, and it was an entirely different experience.
The book has elements of mystery, religion/mysticism, anthropology (albeit fictional anthropology), philosophy, politics, and intrigue.
But its got a very slow start, and there isn't much in the way of action - its all about two cultures trying to understand each other.
Its not a traditional sci-fi read, but for the right reader, it can be a really deep and meaningful experience.

Might be my last time, but who knows what the future might hold.--------------------Like what 90% of the goodreads people say about this, Speaker is more of a philosophical novel, rather than a hardcore SF-war one.
Only two characters from Ender's Game were still present in this novel, Ender and Valentine.
After reading the whole novel to find out about it, it felt like Card gave me a piece of canned meat, after expecting a nicely grilled steak.
Main problem would be the dull characters and terrible ending.
I really liked Ender's Game more, but I'm not saying don't read this, on the contrary, I'm also recommending this.
Calling this book the sequel to Ender's Game is like calling Mary Poppins the sequel to Star Wars. It's boring, overly observational, and totally unrelated in style and setting to Ender's Game.
My favorite book of all time, if only because it brings back sentimental memories. More than simply a sci-fi page turner, it deals with non-trivial matters such as guilt and love. In a whole different league than the rest of the Ender series, not to mention the rest of Scott Card's works. A must read for anyone who was ever interested in sci-fi.
The anthropological framework certainly entertained me and the deeper themes hooked me.The concept of a Speaker for the Dead and the healing properties of truth make the book a self-searching read.
Perhaps the book does not glorify the catholic concept of confession, but it certainly values repentance and forgiveness while acknowledging the absurdity of the act of forgiveness.
You can fear them, but you can't hate them, because you can always find the same desires in your own heart.""...she felt strangely healed, as if simply speaking her mistake were enough to purge some of the pain of it.
This book was such a let down, I wish I never would have read it.
It completely ruined the future Ender for me, so I'm going to forget the whole story as soon as possible.
It was SO far out there, completely boring, and just too nuts that during the most intense part of the book, I found myself reading it as "and blah blah blah, and then blah blah blah..." Ender isn't the same brilliant and complex character he once was, and the new characters Card introduces are just sad.
Ender's future is bleak...make a good future for yourself by picking a different book.
As an example of this, the book focuses on the painful effects space travel has on human relationships (because of the time dilation effects of relativity, a voyage of a few weeks for those on the ship lasts several decades for those they leave behind) rather than how the propulsion technology works.The story revolves around a small colony of Brazilian Catholics on a planet they've named Lusitania.
He is called by several members of the family to speak the deaths they have experienced in an act of defiance of the Catholic hierarchy that essentially runs the colony.As I've implied, the characters are what make this book great, and that applies to all of them, human or otherwise.
Blah.
After Ender's Game, I was all excited to read this one, and it .
was pretty boring.
It wasn't TERRIBLE -- I finished it, but it was mostly boring.The only really interesting things about it were a) biological concepts that are totally different from what we have here on earth, which, after watching a lot of "forehead aliens" on Star Trek is a nice change, and b) the impact of the whole you-don't-age-when-you're-travelling-close-to-the-speed-of-light thing (i.e. relativity and whatnot.) Besides that .
Jane could have been interesting, but she wasn't.
And I missed Valentine.
And the stupid Portuguese names were too similar and therefore confusing.
The problem with this book is everything could have been solved by simply asking the aliens how they reproduce from the start instead of assuming they reproduce like humans do.
Anyone want them?Edit-I am sorry, but no real actual scientist would ever, ever encounter aliens and assume they reproduced the same way humans do!
I do find her whole part very satisfying and I hate when Ender turns her off and she becomes lost.12/18/12 Edit-Why did I read this book again?
I think I need to just not read OSC the way I should NOT watch Anti-christ by Lars von Trier because I don't even want to SEE all of that genital mutilation.I will hurt.
Such accolade is not undeserved as Ender's Game is a great book, and one of the best military sf novels ever published, alas military sf has never been my favorite sf sub genre so Speaker for the Dead is much more to my taste.
The character of Andrew Wiggin (Ender) is very different from the previous novel he has grown up, grown old and attained a lot of wisdom.
Some of the alien piggies characters such as Rooter and Human are as vivid as the human ones.
Made me question what I thought I liked about Ender's Game. Like a Dan Brown book, it manipulates you into reading onwards in order to find out what the hell was going on in the first chapters -- even as you suspect more and more strongly that it's not going to be worth it in the end. Hokey space soap opera.
When he arrives, it becomes clear that Novinha regrets her request (which cannot be cancelled), and that the family is in disarray due to the abuse of Novinha by her husband Ribeiro, and her refusal to reveal what information about the Descolada lead to the deaths of Pipo and Libo.It takes only a week of sleuthing and infiltration of the family by the incredibly perceptive Speaker for the Dead to unearth layer after layer of secrets and emotional pain buried in the Ribeiro family, and despite the resistance of various family members, he finally undertakes to reveal the true story behind Pipo, Libo, Novinha, and Marcao, and this cathartic Speaking before the Lusitania community provides one of the key moments of the book.
Iako je i Enderova Igra bila nekarakteristično promišljen roman, ipak se dosta oslanjao na vojni aspekt (i čuveni obrt), dok Govornik poseduje melanholiju i promišljenost kao direktnu posledicu Endera.
I sve je kako treba, ne bih promenio reč romana – ni jednu jedinu reč (e sad, to već nije slučaj sa prevodom, ali to je druga priča tojest pljuvačina).
Orson Skot Kard hoda po tankoj žici, kako ga je sam nazvao, „antropološkog saj-faja“ i sapunice (ozbiljno, ovde ima svega; nije kolonija džabe naseljena kolonistima španskog govornog područja winkwink) ali to radi na spektakularan način koji pretvara celinu romana u nešto što stoji samo na svojim nogama, čvrsto, snažno, nepokolebljivo.5
'Speaker for the Dead' is a grown ups' book, a literary science fiction that has a lot of Big Questions, and by the end Ender answers the best he can by his understanding of what's needed.
The Buggers (an alien race discovered in space), by this definition, were not only ahead of humans scientifically but also morally(view spoiler)[, but Ender destroyed them in the previous book before understanding could be shared between races.
(hide spoiler)] Jane (a wonderful character) is a proof flesh isn't necessary for an evolved intelligence.
I think Literature has become too solipsistic and it needs to admit new genres like Speakers of the Dead.
Card is wrong when he tells his readers that Speaker is a better book than Ender's Game.
He says young readers don't like it as well because it doesn't feature kids.
I don't like it as well as Ender's game because while Ender's game is a psychological epic, with all the heartfelt intensity of a writer's first real story, Speaker reads to me like just another science fiction novel.
Ender spends his whole life in isolation, and comes out of it a wimp, not a hero.
Makes me wish Mazer Rackham had kicked his ass a little harder in the first book.
What's a hero to do once he's accomplished his heroic deed? Ender doesn't quite know--and unfortunately, Card doesn't quite seem to know either. Ender decays into something of a pathetic and self-pitying figure who wanders about uttering platitudes and aphorisms. It's Card at his preachiest, and thus at his worst.
Unlike its predecessor, Speaker for the Dead is more humane in scope, focusing on the empowering choice of peace and tolerance whilst Ender's Game dealt with war and annihilation of a species that threatened our own.
He had also unwittingly woven himself into the family's fabric, and perhaps in doing so he finally had a home to belong to after being a vagabond for so long.Speaker for the Dead is an astounding follow-up that is drastically different from Ender's Game in tone, setting and execution, and yet in most ways it was also able to surpass its predecessor.
5 Star all-time favorite best book.
I have no idea why this second reading of Speaker for the Dead was so moving.
I am not a very emotional person and I have seldom been moved to laughter, tears, heartache or sheer joy while reading but this book did all that.
So very different from Ender's Game and, yet, so perfect a sequel.
There are hundreds, if not thousands of reviews on the book.
I can add little except note that you will find:Laughter	GriefDelight		AngerJoy		SorrowDesire		RejectionSerenity	 Rage		Elation		Desolation	Treat yourself to Ender’s Game and follow up with this one.
What a little treasure.
A very good science-fiction book. I could not put it down for a while! I wanted to know of course what the 'Little Ones' 's secret was, but there is more than that in the book. There is an attempt to give a spiritual dimension to the story. However, the conflict resolution feels a bit too pat for me. The Utopian reality that the characters all embrace at the end of the book seems forced. A good ending is not always what is needed. I would have liked to see a more nuanced reality emerging from this alien world.
THIS I like.But I'm sick of his subtle racism; I'm a bit sick of how Card pretends to be able to view people like an open book - his characters can PREDICT exactly how other characters will act, due to their personality type etc.And we'll see if the plot has a pay-off, Its just a bit mediocre.PS: And I'm sick of his vapid discussions on "religion" - where he constantly brings up "calvinism," "catholicism," "mormonism," and his own goofy agnostic space thing : its a bit preachy at times.And his use of Portuguese to help individualize his focus planet in here : something called Luscitania : is more funny then interesting.PPS: Oh and one more thing.
The last chapter of the novel, after the supposed Xenocide of the "buggers" (Ender finds a cocoon of a Hive Queen to save and eventually reinvigorate their civilization), sets up the concepts of the Speaker for the Dead, the Hive Queen and the Hegemony, and Ender's guilt of the destruction of an innocent race.
All in all, Speaker for the Dead is a great companion to Ender's Game and a seemingly fantastic conclusion to the story of Ender Wiggin.
One of my favorite books in a long time! Ender’s Game was an enjoyable sci-fi read, but Speaker for the Dead was a much more interesting book with complex characters and relationships. Yes, it’s still sci-fi, but it’s about so much more: family, love, guilt, empathy, forgiveness, responsibility, religious freedom, politics, understanding other cultures. I read some reviews that criticized the book for being allegorical, but this is one of the main reasons why I liked it. Highly recommend!
Waaay different than the first book, but very, very good in its own way. Ender's Game is a tightly written, perfectly turned out story from top to finish, whereas Speaker for the Dead is more philosophical and makes you think.
As a bisexual, it’s hard to forget that the person who wrote the book currently in my hands, head, and heart thinks I’m an abomination.
Blind people can’t drive cars because it’s dangerous.
It’s all the more annoying because, while we’re discussing minorities, I really love how Card writes female characters.
This is annoying because I think highly of Card for this.Orson Scott Card’s books changed a whole generation of people who grew up with them.
Uz to - još jedan veliki plus - Govornik nije puka kopija prvog dela, već nudi originalnu priču koja se nadovezuje ali po strukturi i pristupu ne kopira izvornik.Vreme je da napustimo Zemlju i da se otisnemo u svemirska prostranstva.
Govornik za mrtve (1986), u izdanju Čarobne knjige, nadovezuje se na događaje opisane u prvom romanu i nastavlja da prati život Endera Vigina (sada već trideset i petogodišnjaka), ali zapravo nije klasičan nastavak.
Ne čudi što je Kard za Govornika dobio prestižne nagrade Hjugo i Nebjula, a roman je toliko dobar da se mirne duše može preporučiti i onima koji ne vole naučnu fantastiku.http://citymagazine.rs/clanak/4-u-1-p...
