https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1119944.The_Master_Plan_of_Evangelism
By all American standards, Jesus failed as a church planter.
What kind of church program was he running anyway?Just the most effective, globally significant, time splitting, convert-making ministry the world has ever seen.
That the God-man who had infinite resources at His disposal, infinitely wise plans to carry out, and infinite time to accomplish them, chose to limit himself for the purpose of establishing a simple, yet relationally demanding (yes, relationally demanding) pattern for the church to accomplish His mission.
With the skill of a surgeon, Dr. Coleman takes us through this wonderful book.
Coleman’s entire thesis can be wrapped up in this thought: any Christian can be successful in spreading the gospel message if they simply follow the plan exemplified in the life of the Master.
Rather this is a study in principles underlining his ministry – principles that determined his methods.”Though in no way does the author diminish the wonderful mass evangelism efforts of men like Moody, Sunday, or Graham; he does amplify the importance of individual disciple building, small groups, and local congregational evangelistic fervor.
This book is not just about evangelism, it's about discipleship. Specifically, the way in which Jesus discipled. I have read it multiple times over the past 13 years and each time God's used it to shape me in new way. It's a timeless Christian classic.
Coleman beautifully and simply sums up Jesus' strategy for disciple making, which stands as an indictment of the majority of modern methods flowing out of the American church.
People make disciples; not just via content and proclamation, but through life together and patience, grace, and truth over the long haul.
“The multitudes cannot know the gospel unless they have a living witness.”Coleman's descriptions of how Jesus made disciples are simple yet profound.
His prescriptions are occasionally reductionistic, but I wholeheartedly agree that the few must be trained so that the many can be reached.Practical and heart engaging and made me ever more committed and convicted to making disciples.
I think a more adequate title for this book would be “The Masterplan for Discipleship,” as it talks almost exclusively about Jesus’ methods for making disciples.
I thought this Dr. Coleman does a great job of describing Jesus disciple making methods.
I did not really like how little Coleman focused on the grace and love of God. That, to me, is the cornerstone of evangelism and disciple making.
If we do not understand how much God loves us and why Jesus lived a perfect life to die on a cross, then why on earth will we want to make disciples?
Probably the best book on discipleship ever written.
There is a reason why this book is a classic. Well written, short, and powerful. Excellent!
As Nathan Schneider (one of the most intelligent men I know) says, "Coleman clearly defines the disciple's task: make disciples. This was the command and example of Jesus, who showed His disciples the essential task of each of his followers. He was intentional, relational, and focused. Read this book." That's all that needs to be said!
Extremely practical, short/easy read, and very motivating and convicting. I love this book. Recommend it for all followers of Christ, especially those who want to get better at evangelism and discipleship. This will kindle the flame.
4 stars. This offers so many insightful concepts about evangelism and Jesus Christ. I greatly enjoyed it. Review to come.
Rereading to get ready for summer mission discussions, great reminder of how effective simple truth can be. Will always recommend this book to any believer.
Fairly basic stuff, but I think that's the point. If you aren't doing this basic stuff in favor of something more gimmicky, you probably should get back to this.
This is a great little book that has been around for almost 50 years.
I see more & more programs and literature being promoted to accomplish evangelism & discipleship, but no talk, much less action, about discipleship as being something accomplished personally by individuals, as Jesus modeled.Coleman says that most of our evangelistic efforts are directed to the multitudes because of our emphasis on numbers of converts rather than a genuine concern for the spiritual welfare of those that are reached.
We must begin to intentionally disciple believers if we are to achieve lasting growth.
These are all important questions because at the end of the day any speaker can espouse amazing truth but if they aren’t effective in verbalizing it they may as well have said nothing.This is the wheelhouse that The Master Plan of Evangelism operates in, it’s a candid look at how Jesus trained those he kept close, and it's surprisingly uncomplicated.
The Master Plan of Evangelism systematically examines the different aspects of how Jesus mentored and taught those around him, how he selected people, the lessons that he gave them, the assignments, and the times where he had to correct his pupil’s way of thinking.
The title to me is a bit misleading, it should be called "The master Plan for building believers." The book didn't seem to have a connected theme, but said some great things.
Impacts in the Christian life don't happen in mass operations, maturity happens in small ways, where mature believers disciple young believers with the intent to reproduce.
As a small group leader at heart I was really encouraged by this.
I love the authors emphasis on the Holy Spirit and not on mans tactics.
I give this book a 3 because I just couldn't connect to how this author writes.
I often feel inadequate when reading scripture because I lack the ability to derive a great depth of knowledge or applicability. This book highlighted some very critical aspects of Jesus' ministry that are within the Gospels and shows the way in which Jesus intended for me to disciple other young men. It is scripture-based and not his conjecture on some lofty ideas which is why I highly recommend it. Great insight into Jesus' example of spreading the Gospel to fulfill the Great Commission
In some ways, I didn't really need to read this book--it's in my blood--which in many ways is exactly what Coleman wants. This book is the manifesto whereby our church perceives of leadership and disciple-making. It is biblical, practical, and short, which are three things that all work really well for a book like this one. I imagine I'll go back to this book for reminder and inspiration until I'm dead.
It was worth reading twice. Excellent book.
This was a very helpful book, particularly demonstrating the ministry values of Jesus in evangelism and discipleship.
This was the essence of his training program - just letting his disciple follow him.Knowledge was gained by association before it was understood by explanation.Jesus spent more time with His disciples as His life was coming to an end.Preaching to the masses, although necessary, will never suffice in the work of preparing leaders for evangelism.One living sermon is worth a hundred explanationsAfter all, if Jesus, the Son of God, found it necessary to stay almost constantly with his few disciples for three years, and even one of them was lost, how can a church expect to do this job on an assembly line basis a few days out of the year?This means that some system must be found whereby every convert is given a Christian friend to follow until such time as he or she can lead another.Jesus expected the men he was with to obey him.
DelegationNot immediately evangelism for the disciples...patience is to be practiced before turning converts loose on the work.Before turning them loose, good briefing instructions about the mission.Expect hardship.Be actual representatives of Christ.Two by Two, Seventy, then larger group and each received essentially the same instructions.7.
ReproductionEver increasing circles of the method of training.The Great Commission is to make disciples, and we should pray for "harvesters."It is vitally important to perpetuate new leaders and not new followers.Don't make the mistake of taking shortcuts to evangelizing the masses...train the leaders.Epilogue and Closing ThoughtsLife has a plan.Methods will vary.Priority of people.Begin with a few.Stay and meet together.Give them time.Expect something from them.Keep them going.Help them carry their burdens.
Coleman's work is often cited by practitioners who espouse discipleship as being at the core of effective ministry.The author explores Jesus' model of molding His entourage and settles on eight principles that encapsulate how the apostles were prepared to take the Good News to their world.
What I appreciate most about this book is the absence of qualifying language.
Rather, it is an exploration of the way in which intimacy with Christ forms the center of our witness to the world.Consistently, this work draws me back to AB Bruce's The Training of the Twelve.
I think the fact that I have no complaints says a lot since, IMHO, most Christian books written over the last 25 years seem to generally range from mediocre to garbage.
The author spends a lot of time looking at the life and person of Jesus as a pattern of how to live and function today, especially as it relates to evangelism/discipleship.
He presents an organic way of living as a Christian as a foundation paradigm by which to function.
He sees the more program-oriented and/or method-oriented forms of Christian living/evangelism/discipleship to be silly and superfluous when the organic, normal-human aspects aren't there.This is a great little book.
Timeless book on discipleship stands aloneI just reread this book after 10+ years, and find it just as compelling as the first time I read it.
Very counter to the common approaches to ministry today which focus on the crowds or just preaching him the pulpit.
An excellent book, but my main gripe is that it feels quite repetitive towards the second half of the book.
Thank you, Mr. Coleman, for such a vital resource to which I haven't found many similar resources today.
Simple and yet well done, this shorter book simply suggests a list of elements that are essential to evangelism as deduced from looking at the ministry of Jesus to His disciples. It was an interesting concept that Coleman laid out in the beginning and he did a great job of sticking to it throughout. While there weren't many eye-opening statements or profound realities that I would say I took from the book, it is a process that I will be taking notes on and using in the future, and so for that I'm thankful.
I read this book together with my church community during our weekly book symposium. :) It helped in forming our community to be like Jesus and His disciples in gathering and raising disciples for the Kingdom of God! ^^ I might read this book more slowly in my own time again. These days I've been quite hectic in life, so I couldn't read it with complete focus; some chapters, I have to admit, I merely read and didn't give muh thought about.Nevertheless, a great work to read for any Christian who wants to evangelize or raise disciples for Jesus :)
A Classic! It is amazing how this 50 year old book addresses issues present in the church today. The author assumes discipleship is merely part of evangelism, which is how Jesus operated. The church today tends to treat these two aspects of Christianity separately. Furthermore, not many churches even understand the correct definition of discipleship. After reading this short book, you will clearly know what discipleship is as defined by Jesus himself.
This was my second time reading this book, and like before I found it life-giving and challenging. Coleman carefully examines Jesus's approach to evangelism in his earthly ministry through his focus on discipleship. This short read shows the masterful work of the Master in preparing his disciples to lead the church and make more disciples. This book will encourage and challenge you to be a disciple who makes disciples who make disciples.
Robert Coleman's classic book is an examination of the principles that Jesus used in order to start His world changing movement. It is very Biblically sound and written in a concise, sharp, yet helpful way. Coleman doesn't hold back at all but still is encouraging. Any Christian who is interested in growing in evangelism should read this book.
A classic first published in 1963, this book was selected by Christianity Today as one of the Top 50 Books that have Shaped Evangelicalism. The author analyzes the methods of evangelizing the world and discipling believers that Jesus himself used, and how we can implement His methods in our own churches and ministries.
