https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386487.In_the_Wilderness
You have to read all four books! I ended up reading this one last only because I had to wait for it ordered. Wow. They are all amazing. Can't believe a writer from the 1920's could have handwritten and published this much material.
The penultimate volume of Sigrid Undset's Master of Hestviken tetralogy, In the Wilderness finds Olav Audunsson mourning the death of Ingunn, his wife of about 20 years.
Olav adopts a young girl named Bothild Asgeirsdatter, who befriends his daughter Cecilia and adds a little light to his life, just before the countryside erupts into chaos when a Swedish lord invades Norway.
As is true of all of Undset's works, the book richly evokes its time, place and characters; the landscape and culture of medieval Norway come to vivid life under her pen.
This third volume of Sigrid Undset's THE MASTER OF HESTVIKEN enhances the saga of a medieval manor heir Auden Audensson, The Master of Hestviken.
As converts often are, she ventured beneath the veneer and found the good stuff often hidden from general view.
The reader must be prepared to be educated in her venture.
If the reader is open to this challenge, they will be rewarded with both a great story, and a introduction to a spirituality that is not beyond them, but which, instead, is, perhaps, closer to them than they might like to admit.
3 1/4 stars
Again SU excels in bring medieval Norway to life - she herself seems a mass of contradictions (a Catholic feminist?) - one thing I am sure of is that her intellectual powers far exceed mine - odd how SU is so capable in writing from a man's perspective - difficult for me to think of any man undertaking the task of writing about a woman's inner angst - right now I am not able to think of having read a male author who has accomplished that feat.
Third of the tetralogy.The author, Sigred Undset, considered The Master of Hestviking Tetrology to be better than Kristen Lavraansdatter, the trilogy for which she won the Nobel Prize.
This book, set in medieval times really sets out what sin and guilt will do to an otherwise "good" person--if you can consider a murderer and adulterer to be a good person:) (it's too bad birth control wasn't available in this time and place.
) At any rate, the relationships between Olav and his wife, lovers, children and extended family/friends is a story for all ages.
I especially enjoyed the part of this story where the author described the battles between the Swedes and Norwegians as well as the travels of Olav to England.
The series slows wih each novelIn the Wilderness is the fourth in a four novel series following an eight year old boy named Olav through his coming of age, unhappy marriage to a chronically ill wife, and now, well into his forties, through a war between his native Norway and Denmark.
Also, as I read more, I find these novels to be light on plot and therefore overly long.
They are like Wagner's Ring Cycle.
I will only be reading the last book to see how Sigrid Undset leaves Olav.
I started this book in Norway last summer.
For me the strength of the book is the psychological study of Olav Audunsson.
If I had it to do over, though, I would have started with volume 1 of the series.
There were too many background facts I didn't have to understand the plot and characters as well as I would have liked.
And I couldn't find a good synopsis of the whole series online.
I was also a little disappointed in the ending.
It was more like just the end of another chapter.
But I guess that's what you do when you're writing a series.
This novel is the 3rd of four, and they should be read all together and in sequence.
It is also necessary to read a proper translation, not one of the translators who tries to modernize the novels and reduce them to their more simplistic elements.
All that said, I've throughly enjoyed the story, albeit tragic, of the two lovers Olav and Ingunn.
This third novel in the series focuses on Olav and is a psychological study of who the young boy has become in these, his middle aged years.
While I as always thoroughly enjoyed the writing style and description, I found this novel a little less engaging than the previous ones.
After the dreariness and tragedy of the previous volume (The Snake Pit), Olav leaves Hestviken and travels to England where he has quasi-mystical experiences that help him process his loss. But he is still not willing to face and manifest the deeds buried in his past. Thus, he hardens, even as he exhibits at the exterior level, the probity of Christian life.
As Vol 3 is only part of the journey, I will read the final episode of this saga before I comment much.
Whew! This was like giving birth! My all time favorite book. This was the third time I have read this and the first for a book club. It was enlightening to discuss. Dont be intimidated, just read it!!
This was the most difficult of the series. So much guilt and misery. I could not keep track of the characters, and their connections. The end was better, one more book to go.
This is the 3rd installment of The Master of Hestviken, by Undset, continuing the saga of Olav Audunson and his family. One more to go!
I loved this book. The Master of Hestviken is one of my favorite books ever.
Definitely worth reading if you are reading the whole series (The Master of Hestviken); however, not as riveting as the previous two books.
