https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6618272-the-siren
When She’s hungry, the Ocean calls for Kahlen and her sisters to use their singing to drown humans.
To Kahlen, the Ocean is like a mother to her, and the latter loves Kahlen as if she were her own daughter.The Ocean is definitely a villain-ish bodiless being in the story, but it’s still hard to hate Her. She doesn’t like taking human lives and definitely cares about Her sirens.
Now that she’s met Akinli, she needs her sisters' support more than ever, since she doesn’t think she can live without him much longer.What makes this book less clichéd is Kahlen’s trying.
Well that was disappointing
All in all, I liked this book, it was fresh, cute and a fast read, and that's what I needed (because I've been reading heartbreaking, sad books).
I mean, I liked the idea, I think that She was the strongest character of the book, and it's the first time I read something like it.
I liked that I thought I knew how his story would end and NOPE!
I'm not saying I loved the way it ended, but it took me by surprise!
I mean, it wasn't exactly insta love, but it happened way too fast!
The Siren was a...  SNOOZEFEST. I'm so disappointed in this book. I was such a huge fan of The Selection series so I expected to really like The Siren but honestly, everything was just super dull.The characters were boring. The only thing I enjoyed about the siren sisters was their dedication and loyalty to one another. The concept behind the Sirens and the Ocean was interesting but I didn't really love it. And on top of that, the romance was 100 percent insta-love. Their feelings developed too
I was such a huge fan of The Selection series so I expected to really like The Siren but honestly, everything was just super dull.The characters were boring.
that I was supposed to feel in the end.Prior to reading the book, I thought the negative reviews were just a little harsh and I expected that the book would actually improve by a long shot once Kiera Cass rewrote and republished it again, but if I thought this 
The only difference was that Disney actually pulled off the insta-love romance.Although this book fell short for me, I'm still a 
Ok, kids. I obviously need to stop reading Kiera Cass books. I don't know why I keep doing falling for the gorgeous covers when the stories only work me into an irritable rant. So this time I'm going to be nice and just leave it with:
Do not avoid this book simply because mushy romances aren't your thing.
Any symbolism you may or may not personally see reflected in the Ocean aside, the way in which Cass brought to a life a character that in this world was a type of deity and creator full of undying and jealous love was simply astounding.There are a few more things I want readers to know about this story that make it really awesome.-The main characters are college age, which is refreshing.-The fantasy element of this world was VERY fleshed out.
Vamos, que sí, se nota que le faltaba poner un poco en orden las ideas y dotarlas de detalles.La novela es en sí entretenida: las situaciones que se dan son conflictos medios, es decir, nada épico ni que vaya a cambiar el mundo, pero se dan de manera totalmente justificada y fluyen dentro de la historia.
He encontrado similitudes con La Sirenita y también a algunas escenas bíblicas (yo no soy religioso, pero la autora lo es, y mucho, y en este trabajo se nota bastante).Sin duda, una novela que he disfrutado y que me ha gustado.
❝Sometimes you have to give the hurt a noise and let it out. If you don’t, it fills you up with its emptiness.❞ I hate to say it, but I don't think I would read another novel by Kiera Cass. If she did write something else, I don't think I would bother reading it or trying at least. Even if it would be something totally different than her Selection series, I don't think I would give it a shot. They're cute and small and I really like how Kiera makes it enjoyable at times, but other than that, I
The Heir and The Crown were not novels I enjoyed, and I was glad I said goodbye to the world of The Selection.Kiera can make others laugh and smile because her writing is cute and quirky and sometimes considered like fan fiction writing, but I am not the biggest fan of it.
I was laughing at times because of the cheesy scenes there were with the main character and her sisters, other sirens, and the boy she was falling in love with, trying to keep her voice muted for the most time or things would turn out bad.The romance felt unrealistic and was also very boring.
This book was laaaaaaame. I listened to it on audio and considered DNF'ing at least 10 times. Major instalove. Flat writing. Flat characters. The resolution was way too convenient. I did like the concept of the siren world and the Ocean being personified. I think it would've been better if someone else wrote this book. I think I might be done with Kiera Cass.
It wasn't the best thing I have ever read, but with my emotions all mixed up and my health not being as it should be right now, this book straight up made me cry for what I yearn for: love.Ever since I was little, I have fallen in love with the ideas of mermaids (or sirens, as some have called them).
She has three sisters at one time and together they are silent until the ocean calls them to sink a ship for her.
You'll have to read that to find out.My heart hurt for not only these two characters, but for the sisters of Kahlen.
Another book I had on my TBR shelf for months and months...gone.
He is beautiful, sad, lonely, in pain, and yet there is something about him that Kahlen can't let go.The Ocean warns Kahlen that no matter what happens, those must stay daydreams and she cannot chance their secret by letting her fantasies run away with her.
Kahlen decides she wants to make a difference and takes up sign language, which transforms into spending a few years at schools for the deaf teaching children, and later teenagers, that being deaf isn't always a bad thing.Kahlen gets new "sisters," Miaka and Elizabeth, who help transform her into something better than she ever imagined she could be.
“Books were a safe place, a world apart from my own. No matter what had happened that day, that year, there was always a story in which someone overcame their darkest hour. I wasn't alone.” Ugh... I could NOT bring myself to finish this book. I. Just. Couldn't. I got 35% and had enough! It's such a shame because I absolutely ADORED The Selection series. 'The Siren' couldn't even compete! Clearly, this is just not for me lol. It was way too slow and boring and really I didn't even like the plot!
“Books were a safe place, a world apart from my own.
No matter what had happened that day, that year, there was always a story in which someone overcame their darkest hour.
I wasn't alone.”
Ugh...
I could NOT bring myself to finish this book.
Couldn't.
I got 35% and had enough!
It's such a shame because I absolutely ADORED The Selection series.
'The Siren' couldn't even compete!
Clearly, this is just not for me lol.
It was way too slow and boring and really I didn't even like the plot!
The whole book was just bland and incredibly predictive.
Will it be good? Will it be terrible? Who knows! Reading Cass's books is a little like playing Russian Roulette. It might blow your mind, it might not.
I hate to say this but even though the book wasn’t really bad, it wasn’t anything much else either.
Actually in retrospect, it was kind of bad.
I just wanted to be over with it which I wasn’t expecting to be feeling because despite the Selection Series being a cheesy fairytale dystopia, I found the writing gripping and it’s why I liked it.
The romance not very convincing which is sad since Siren is basically a romance novel attempting to disguise as an urban fantasy.There wasn’t any color or complexity to the writing.
How present day Sirens would actually live.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zmiE7uJtHMQ
And, as you can probably guess from my rating, I was left a little disappointed.I felt the story opened strongly.
However, the plot, whilst not at all bland, felt drawn out with long periods of little action or forward movement and it led to me feeling a total disconnect with the characters.
This also brought into question who the villain exactly was and it was interesting to see the blurring of the good/bad binaries come into play.Whilst not at all a bad book, I found this to be a forgettable one.
“She told me to live. . . . I didn’t know how to tell Her that simply being alive was not enough to be called living.”  Mixed feelings about this one. This book obviously isn't as good as The Selection. But it had huge potential in it and I wish Kiera Cass used it. I liked the main idea of the book however it would be much more better if it was longer, maybe a duology? There are so many questions that re unanswered in the book. First of, why ocean eats humans? or why does she needs sinkings? Th
“She told me to live.
. I didn’t know how to tell Her that simply being alive was not enough to be called living.” 
This book obviously isn't as good as The Selection.
There are so many questions that re unanswered in the book.
The ocean was pretty weird in the book, but Hers was the character with the most potential.Why does sirens have to stay 100 years?
They can stay less and ocean can create more sirens.
Kahlen was an okay character.
Akinli was cute and sweet and I admired his ambition to keep a conversation with Kahlen even tho she can't speak.Insta-love.
totally loved this book. it was so different to the Selection Series but just as beautiful. Love will find a way ❤
I have a theory as to why it caused such harsh reactions for fans of Cass’ work:The book is less about the romance, where the main love interest is kept on the periphery for most of the book, and more about the relationship girl has with her sisters, mother ocean, and (most importantly) her heart.
I don’t think it’s a book I could recommend with confidence because it’s a very specific, atypical YA that doesn’t fit the mold, but it definitely fit the bill as the refresh I needed in the genre.Recommendations: I wouldn’t recommend this necessarily for fans of Cass’ other work because it satiates an entirely different craving.
Kiera Cass has that style to write books which are kind of cute and really easy to get into them but at some points everything turns out so predictive and nothing surprised me and specially in this book.
In The Selection books I kind of read all of them really fast and I enjoyed them a lot, but The Siren I had to force myself a little bit to keep reading it and the plot was kind of cheesy.
I enjoyed it mostly because it has the same style as The Selection and it makes you want to read more but the insta love and all the idea of sirens and everything going on there...just no.
Seriously, GTFO of this book.It felt more like a generic high school romance than a supernatural love story.No plot happened except Kahlen's instalove with Akinli.
Would have actually been better as a novella, not enough substance for the full 325 pages it is.Of course, MC falls into a depression a-la-Bella Swan for years when she can't be near him because it's just too much to be separated from her one true love that she's known for just a few hours.And then there's the personified Ocean who switches between talking to them like the sirens are employees and then talks to them like they're BFFs. It was pretty weird at times.While reading, this was hovering between 2 and 2.5 stars, but the last few pages were so worthy of eyerolling that I just had to lower the rating.Where was the world building?
Demasiados clichés en una historia tan corta, predecible y cursi hasta el cansancio.
A pesar del orden de publicación, The Siren fue el primer libro que escribió Kiera Cass y eso se nota muchísimo en el estilo, la manera de escribir y el cómo nos cuenta la autora la historia.
Si bien la historia de Aisling es la que más me atrajo de todas, el saber un poco de la vida pasada de cada una de estas chicas atadas al Océano fue bastante refrescante, pues el libro de vez en cuando se hacía un poco lento.
Although ruling with with a firm and controlling hand, She is passive aggressive and uses the motion of Her waves to caress her Sirens to soothe them in their time of need.The Ocean has now become a third party in the strangest love triangle I've come across.Akinli is a quiet and intelligent college student, meeting Kahlen in the student library in which he works.
Good times.Alas, their relationship can never be and Kahlen leaves behind a heartbroken Akinli to devote herself to the Ocean once more.
“There’s always room for love. Even if it’s as small as a crack in the door.”  Oh, The Siren you had so much promise! Why didn't you live up to all your potential?I have such mixed emotions about The Siren. I wanted to love this such much. I saw the beautiful hardcover book in the store and read the summary and I was instantly sold. It's my first book from Kiera Cass, so I won't be drawing any comparisons between this and The Selection series. This is also my first book about sirens and it jus
I actually loved the relationship between the sirens.
The idea that The Ocean loved these girls but that she was like an overbearing and controlling mother was very interesting and at times I felt a lot for Her. I also liked that it didn't fully focus on romance, there is romance in it but the love interest isn't even in the book that much.
He was a fairly bland love interest, I would have liked some more developing between the characters.
I think the story had some interesting ideas and I would've liked to have seen it go much darker but that is just me.
*3.5 stars*
This book was nothing like The Selection series and I really enjoyed that.
I really enjoyed how modern this book was because stories like this that I read are usually set in the past or in a different universe that I could never picture on Earth.
It was an easy read and just a cute romance.
This was the definitely the kind of book I needed.
It wasn't super complex like some books I've read that make your brain hurt but included some things that were very captivating and enjoyable to read.
I really liked the romance between Kahlen and Akinli.
Parts of The Siren were so heartbreaking, but there were so many parts that were full of joy, happiness, and life.
The first half was more about the life of a Siren, and what Kahlen and the others go through, but the second half sends you plunging head first into the perfect romance Kahlen finds with Aklini.
The characters Cass creates are just phenomonal.
Even the minor characters that play a smaller part are so filled with life.
Cass's writing was such a joy to read.
The Siren is a book for anyone who loves a story to get lost in.
Even if it’s as small as a crack in the door.” (A very important quote, as you’ll see.)There are so many more, it takes all I have NOT to tweet random lines from the book all day long.Final ThoughtsThe Siren covers so many topics, one *might* think it wouldn’t be able to do that effectively, but Kiera Cass finds a way.
For fans of The Selection series, you’ll love learning about this new world, obsessing over the all-consuming romance, and pondering the theme that there are things worth fighting for because they are right.For new readers of Kiera Cass, it’s a standalone book (no waiting for sequels!) and a perfect book-sized sampler of her work.
