https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6431790-fang
If Fang dies, I'm going to make Patterson rewrite the book.
The series was better when the Flock was running.*later*I have been reading reviews.
We should email Patterson about how Fang can't die.*even later*Okay, I looked at this book on Patterson's webite-AND FANG IS GOING TO BE REPLACED BY DYLAN, A BIRD KID RAISED TO BE MAX'S PERFECT OTHER HALF.
Therefore, I'm going to buy it and skip to the end to make sure Dylan dies and Fang doesn't.*even later than even later*I know what happens in this one and in Angel now.
When Angel, Nudge, Iggy and Gazzy votes Max out of the flock, Fang takes off with her.
Later, Max finds a note where he tells her that he's gone looking for answers.So Fang goes to this psygo lab, where Angel is staing, by choice I may add.
Angel is trying to tell him that it's all gonna be okay, when Fang dies.
The flock, now including Angel, and Dylan takes out all the people in the lab and Max screams and crys at Fangs dead body.
now this iz wat should happen after i get found and finish reading it(if i can) in my room:after fang dies there should be a new guy tht comes in.
so she gets over fang and falls in love wit this new dude.
he discovers tht max is in love wit the new dude.
so max dumps the new guy (dramatically as possible) and flys off after fang.
max asks how fang came bak to life and he told her tht jeb had did it.
fang also tells max tht jeb gave him healing powers.
wat happens to the new dude u may ask?
He’s ignorant, and thinks the world only evolves around him and Max. I mean come on, if you read the entire series, you could tell that he hardly mentioned the flock at all.
Most lovers of this book/series would totally hate her, but on my list of Ok characters, she’s above Max. Definitely.
I think another thing I hate about Max is her attitude.
Because the almighty James Patterson (that’s suspiciously ‘writing’ books) was so GREAT that he didn’t even think to ELABORATE on this Fang dying thing.I think from my mean, evil, cruel, bias review, you guys understand how much I hate this book/series.
This was probably the worst book out of the series. Angel is unstable, Max and Fang leave the Flock for a short while, Dylan comes into the picture and tries to get Max to himself(which he failed at), Angel sides with a mad scientist and becomes evil, Fang dies and comes back to life after he had been dead too long, and Fang leaves.
Leaving the flock, and this time its for good.
And the thing is Max, everyone is just a little bit right, and added up all together it makes this one big right.
Angle is a little bit right about how splitting up the flock will help all of us survive.
And the rest of the flock is a little bit right about how when you and I are together, were focused on each other.
At least for a couple more years, the flock needs a leader to survive, no matter how capable everyone thinks he or she is.
Fang dies so max switches to this Dylan!!!
I mean read what he wrote on his website!!!!FANG WILL BE THE FIRST TO DIE.Maximum Ride is used to living desperately on the run from evil forces sabotaging her quest to save the world—but nothing has ever come as close to destroying her as this horrifying prophetic message.
Raised in a lab like the others, Dylan exists for only one reason: he was designed to be Max's perfect other half.TO REPLACE FANG.Thus unfolds a battle of perfection versus passion that terrifies, twists, and turns...and meanwhile, the apocalypse is coming.
Faaaang! Noooo! Whyyyyyyyyyyy! That. Letter. OMG.  "ARE YOU FANGALICIOUS?- I could never be as fangalicious as you'd want me to be." (hahaha)This was actually much better than the last two books. (#4, #5)Might write a review someday. ;)
There's Dylan the Gary Sue, the flock almost forming a band, Evil Angel, the flock making Max leave, the death of Fang, the OTHER flock, everyone randomly hating Dylan, and probably more that I'm forgetting.
Nudge barely talked, Iggy and Gazzy barely made any bombs, it was like a horrible FanFiction where they forget everyone besides Max and Fang.
Not to mention that Iggy, Nudge, and Gazzy would never vote for Max to leave.Let's not forget that James Patterson is leaving many things at dead ends.
Max, Fang, and Angel have gills.
I thought it to be a HUGE letdown and, quite frankly, a waste of my time.
Max was a bubbling mess when Fang wasn't around to swap spit with; any independence she had in the first books is now gone.
Fully equipped with a parade of boys willing to do anything for her, a serious lack of flaws, and her extreme dependency (which you could count as a fault, but it's not portrayed in the book as so), Patterson has produced a full fledged Mary Sue.Angel - What was with her?
I could have read the last chapter and understood everything that happened versus the entire book.
I think that he has a way with keeping you hooked and righting various things that happen so that the book opeals to a wider audeince.Ok well I got this book like pronto as soon as I was finished the ones before it!!
Fang left at the end to protect them yet Angel thinks she is the leader and constantly leads the mad scientists and people to them and she is the one always forgive her, no way she needs to go NOW!!!!
I think that this book should be read by ever one!!!
Although the series has gone down hill I am still looking forward to his new book.
Fang is my favourite character and I've stuck with the series this far I might as well try and finish it.
Though, I wish he would go somewhere with them because this series doesn't seem to be concluding.EDITFinally read this book!
I'm 20 but I feel the need to finish all series that I start so that's my excuse and I'm sticking to it!It's a cute tale, again filled with "Scientists are bad bad people" and "don't mess with DNA" but I guess the subtleties are worth thinking about if you survive the brutal beating round the head with morality then it's worth a read.
So Fang goes bye-bye. Well guess what? There goes my interest in the next book too.
From what I was hearing, the plot was screwed up, there were plotholes everywhere, there was an overload of Fax, Max and Fang were all over each other and the rest of the flock was barely in it.I think these last three things (we'll get back to the plot later) are true, but on a smaller level.
At one point, there's five chapters in a row where Max and Fang aren't there, and it's about the flock in third person.
If JP uses this seventh book to make some connection between all the loose ends in this series-- an alliance between Mr. Chu, Dr. Gunther-Hagen, and the School, maybe?-- then I think we can get back on track here.
NNNNNNNNNNOOOOOOOOOOOOO!I don't get why everyone thinks Fang will die.
Even book characters.
Unless they're immortal book characters.
And I would throw this book against the wall and probably rip it if anybody in the Flock were immortal.
I'm guessing that Fang will die at age 80!!!EWWWWWWWWWWWWWW!!!!!!!!
On second thought, everybody in the Flock should die before age 30 (preferably fighting) because, who wants a bunch of grannies and grampas that used to be able to go around saving the world???FANG AND MAX MUST DIE, TOGETHER!!!!
TeeheeI really think everybody in the Flock (+Total), Dr. Martinez, Ella, Jeb, and anyone else related whatsoever to the Flock should die so there's no grief.
Although I am a huge Maximum Ride fan, reading this book was like pulling teeth.
I felt like Nudge and the Gasman were totally left out of the book, as was Total.
Iggy seemed to have become a self-absorbed non-caring idiot, and Angel was just scary.
Just scary.
I felt like through this book I lost all of my respect for the characters.
In short, this book sucked, and I will not be reading any more of the Maximum Ride series, unfortunately.
Max and her flock will never be left alone.
Angel decides that she should lead the flock and that doesn't go well.
Max and Fang get closer, but Angel predicts that Fang will be the first to die.
Although these books are basically all the same concept, Max must save the flock from danger, I can't stop reading.
As the title suggests, this book is centered around Fang and his feelings toward Max. I'm glad so see them growing up.
I test tube bird kid who has been alive for about 8 months.
Because she loves Fang or something.....UGH just UGH this book was awful I don't know what going on with James P but its like he's trying to make the book more interesting and in the proses of that he forgets what the book is supposed to be about!
Its about Max and the flocks wonderful adventure about saving the world and lately all I'm seeing is power struggles in the flock, Max and Fang making goo goo eyes at each other, Dylan being treated like an outcast, depression, no more fun time with the flock and the flock moving to Hollywood or something?!
I don't know if his books are just getting worse, or if I'm just getting picky. Though thankfully he's not preaching about the enviroment in this one. Basically this book just contains a lot of swooning and the stereotypical dumb evil scientist. Patterson really needs to get new bad guys, all his evil scientists are practically the same person. Though I have to say, I love his use of WTH? :)
Heres an abridged version-Pointless love triangle's, pointless characters, nonexistent plot, nonthreatening villains, a weird song sung by the incredibly dull new character Dylan, horribly written, and honestly insulting to anyone who's a fan of the previous books.
Maximum Ride has never been about the romance, yet now its completely overtaken what little plot exists in this book .
I don't mind romance here and there, but i felt like Max sitting around thinking about how gorgeous Dylan and Fang are for pages was so out of character its almost laughable.
If you aren't a fan, read the first three books and stop.
ok, what else can I throw in there?BUT the characters HUGELY make up for the semi-poinless plot that mainly just focuses on bird kids in random peril.All I can say is THANK GOD JP didn't make Dylan a likeable character!
And thank god Max doesn't even think about ending up with him, besides the rare teenage girl peeking through.
Patterson, are you trying to KILL ME?!!!!!!!Ugh. Fang, come back!!!I hate Angel.
Little creeper.FANG!Hate Dylan, too.
Let's go toss Angel off a cliff and everything will be awesome!'I wish someone had died in this book.
Obviously, I was rooting for either Dylan or Angel to croak.
i agree with most of the other comments, out of the whole flock i only like fang and iggy.
The other books were very confusing and off topic.
like i dont even know what happened to that ape and organs in a jar guy, that was just really random.
I hope this book makes more sense than the others.
But what i was really confused about was mr.
the villains are VERY messed up in this series.
i dont even know why i still read this series, but the name of this book says enough, so i will read it
First thought after finishing book: Sucked badSecond thought: Are you kidding? Third thought: Really. Fourth thought: Big mistake.James Patterson is getting lazier. He’s stretched this series too long, the characters are so unstable, the plot’s all over the place, there’s no story, no humor, the same-old villains, and more mushy romance than ever, and Fax fans are going to gush over this, but count me out.
I love the entire series and I have every book up to #5. I can't wait for this one to come out. My biggest disappointment in this book would be if they actually let Fang die, cause if they do that I might die. He and Max just started to grow in their relationship, I'm anxious to see what they have in stored for us.
Wow. WAY a step up from MAX, which was book five.One thing I don't get is: OMFG, Max, kick Angel out already! She's killing y'all.Which, I'm guessing, is why book seven is called ANGEL. I'll be starting it soon.Soon means now.
Of coarse though I needed to know what happened with Fax (Fang and Max's romance) so I picked it up and read...
This evil dude is just like the others, wants to help Max (in a disturbing manipulative way) and get her to help him cuz the apocalypse is coming and blah blah blah...
I also hate doctor whatev' cuz he brought Dylan into the flock for no reason, other than HE IS SUPPOSED TO BE MAX'S SOUL MATE!
Then in the end Fang decides to leave for Max's own good and its like WTF!!!
Fang (Maxium Ride #6) I loved this book, best in the series so far.Max and her flock are flying to Africa, where her mother's environmental group, Coalition to Stop the Madness (CSM), is hosting a refugee camp to provide food and medical assistance to the needy.
First, one of the scientists at the refugee camp, Dr. Hans Gunther-Hagen, seeks the flock out to introduce himself and his protégé, Dylan, who just happens to be a new avian hybrid.
Max and Fang are soul mates, and nothing anybody says or does will change that.
Tipikal cerita yang dipanjang-panjangin hehehehe Nggak ada yang spesial, yang ada malah bikin bingung hahahaha. Nggak tahu mau ngomong apa? Nggak tahu harus komen apa? Kayanya cukup baca Epilognya aja dah...bab-bab sebelumnya ya gitu dah heheheheEpilog yang sukses buat gue jadi mengharu biru kala membacanya. Sedih di kala bahagia.  Someday we might have only a few seconds to figure out the meaning of life ***Preview buat Naga:DYLAN WAS STARING into my eyes. Hard. He was leaningtoward me.“Dylan,
Nggak tahu mau ngomong apa?
Nggak tahu harus komen apa?
***Preview buat Naga:DYLAN WAS STARING into my eyes.
You need me.”I edged away but couldn’t disconnect from his eyes.
“You do need me, Max. I can helpyou more than anyone.”“Yeah?” I asked, my voice a squeak.
It was uncomfortable— but there were also shivers going down my spine.“You need me because I .
I can protect you.”“You don’t know me, Dylan,” I said, steeling my voice butstill totally under the control of his gaze.
“I’ve never needed tobe protected.”It was as though he didn’t even hear me.
Basic InfoFormat: AudioPages/Length: n/aGenre: Young Adult; Fantasy At A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Obsession Cliff Hanger: Yes. Triggers: n/aRating: 1.5 starsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot: 3Characters: 4World Building: 4Flow:  4Series Congruity: 5Writing: 4Ending: 4Total: 2In DeptBest Part: It ended.
Thoughts Had: Please stop writing.
I will pay you to STOP!ConclusionContinuing the Series: ...Recommending: noShort Review: SPOILER ALERT!!!
Maybe Max will go back to wanting to save the world, doubtful, but maybe.
I don't see how anyone likes this book.
Max is 15 ish but acts and talks like she's 8 now.
Book Boyfriend: Dead Fang ;) haha.
You're gonna end a book like that?
I suddenly loved the conflict that was presented in this book, loved the way the flock reacted to each other and to Max's leadership.
They have a new arch nemesis, and new, completely different problem that just made the plot absolutely nail its potential.
We were introduced to some new characters, which I have a feeling are going to contribute and affect the ENTIRE plot of the next few books, leading up to the end of the series.
It was so different, and exciting to read, and I just absolutely love this book.
