https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5301304-this-is-my-story
I felt sorry for her while reading about her childhood, which Eleanor describes as being ignored by her mother and extended family members because she wasn't pretty or intelligent.
Situations where her mother was very critical and punitive towards Eleanor were often pointed out being due to her ugliness, as well as her shaming the family by Eleanor's somewhat rambunctious behavior, which all led to her developing severe shyness and a poor self esteem.
It is not until she marries and well into that relationship and following the post WWI era , that Eleanor begins to grow to realize her own intelligence, independence and self worth.
This is such a graceful book, right from the opening line. She's honest in the best way, without being hurtful, but with an insightful approach to herself and those around her. I wrote down a thousand quotes from this book. Who is like her today?
Here are my disjointed thoughts:(1) One has to give a large leeway when reading this book.
Mrs. Roosevelt was very candid for the time (1930's), although some of her large confessions are not even an afterthought in today's world.
Starting from a position that the woman is subservient to a man in every aspect of life, to being able to form her own opinions and eventually make her own political speeches.(4) Her book stops at the beginning of the most important era of her life!
So it's nice to know that you can still accomplish great things after the age of 40.Now I'll have to read a biography to get the full story....
This was such a great book. Eleanor Roosevelt was way beyond her time. I think she might have even inspired me to start journaling. There are many life lessons that I've gleaned from this book and it was a quick, easy read to boot.
It is filled with things I believe only a few people would be interested in.
The book is filled with sentences like "In May we moved to Albany with servant A and B.
In December we had Mr and Mrs I's child J with us." I have never read a book with so many exclamation points!
At times there can be sentences after sentences ending with exclamation points!
This book ended before she became one.
So many things happened to Eleanor Roosevelt even during the years before her District days, but she jumped over the important parts, or the parts I would have been interested in.
In its time (written in 1936), a surprisingly candid & revealing memoir of ER's childhood, courtship and family years, through FDR's illnesss and her entry into politics. Ends in 1928, when FDR becomes governor of NY. Written at Lorena Hickok's urging to define herself to her public and to earn money, most of which ER used to bail her children out of various scrapes. This is the book on which most ER biographies are based.
Too good
Fascinating insight into one of the heroes in my life.
An inspiration - a life well lived
It was okay, I really liked learning about her life. It can be easy to assume that popular figures never faced trials, but she certainly did and she didn't always know what to do and went through years of awkwardness, but eventually got involved in a lot of good causes, I believe with great intentions. I learned a lot from her example in this book, but it is a little rambling.
