https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/244572.Charmed_Life
Like an enormous wedge of literature it's one of those adventures that would be over really quite quickly and with very little fun if the man (or woman) at the top just sat down and told everyone what was going on.
Dumbledore could probably have reduced the Harry Potter series from seven long books to three short ones if he just told Harry things he knew that Harry needed to know.
As things develop elements of the story takes a surprisingly dark tone, but the best children's books always carry an edge, and this edge serves to add interest in the finale!
Sibling rivalry can feel like life or death when you are a kid.
Anyway, the point is that if you have a pair of children who fight a lot, it's probably best not to let the younger one get anywhere near this book, because it will only confirm his suspicions that, yes, his older sister really is a sociopathic witch trying to murder him as part of a grand scheme to be named queen of the world.
No, literally.* In the interest of full disclosure, I also have a much older half-sister, but I don't think she's trying to steal my magic.
soon they are taken to the castle of Chrestomanci, an enchanter and super-cop in charge of minding magic used and magic-users in general, so that they do not run rampant and control all the poor wittle ordinary folk.
and Cat, our hero, is a sweet kid and is also perfectly ordinary in his thought process - the only thing really unusual about his personality is his docility.
everything in the novel, no matter how potentially grand-scale or deeply personal, is treated with the same surprising lack of affect.
What a perfect book for my mood.
Thank you, Fiona!
And a terrific introduction to a new (for me) series.
Diana Wynne Jones was a talented writer, and I so enjoyed wandering through the pages of this book.
Don't let the YA throw you off.
If you like Harry Potter, I think you would like this also.
Not saying they're very similar, really, but the magical worlds created are so interesting and fun.
I just love her writing and the audio performance was also well done.
Will definitely be continuing with this series.
This genre is my sweet spot right now.
Azzardo a dire che secondo me l'ha letto anche la Rowling..
Per me Charmed Life è un po' il nonno di Harry Potter, sotto alcuni aspetti :3Punto di forza sono sicuramente i personaggi: non credo di aver mai incontrato tra le mie letture a target giovani un personaggio cattivo e meschino come Gwendolyn..
Ragazzi, che tipaccia!
L'ho trovata intricata e ben costruita, ad un certo punto la disperazione di Cat era anche la mia e continuavo a chiedermi come si sarebbe cavato dagli impicci..
Insomma, un romanzo per ragazzi che è intelligente, divertente, con bei personaggi e ben costruito!
They go to Chrestomanci's castle and Gwendolen is hugely disappointed that she won't be taught magic until she starts behaving like a mature kid, because she was a very arrogant, petulant child.What starts off as the usual struggle of orphan children to adjust in a new home, with new people, new kids of the same age, pulling pranks on everyone because you are petty and jealous slowly turns quite dark as parallel worlds and incredible magical powers come into play.The dark side of the story hit me pretty hard, such a cruel and evil idea would never cross your mind until half way through when you start to doubt whether everything and everyone is truly who they seem to be.While this is not as intricate a fantasy setting as Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, it is still something a HP fan might enjoy as much.
It may seem odd that I can give 4 stars to a book that I the label under "favourites", but my reasoning is this: The book is not perfect, nor is it quite close. However, since the first time I read it over a decade ago, and in the many times since, it has never failed to pull me into its world and allow me a brief escape from the mundanity of everyday life. Books like this may not be technically the best I have ever read, but nonetheless remain among my all-time favourites
The same goes for the rest of the Chrestomanci series, and indeed for all the books by the late, great Diana Wynne Jones I've read.
If you love Harry Potter, do give DWJ's books a try.
There's a good chance you'll love them too.Charmed Life was the first book by DWJ I ever read, and I chose it as the first in my planned reread of books by her that I have on my shelves (which is almost all of them).
Next I'll reread Witch Week and all the rest of the Chrestomanci books, then go on to Fire and Hemlock (another favorite) and all the others.
I've loved everything from DWJ that I've read. From Howl's Moving Castle to Castle in the Air to House of Many Ways to Charmed Life to The Lives of Christopher Chant, Diana Wynne Jones showed such wonderful imagination. I never quite know where her plots will head or how her quirky characters will fare, and I love every minute I spend in her worlds.
Stories of learning magic have become commonplace these days: I've even heard Diana Wynne Jones dismissed unfairly as a ripoff of JK Rowling when Diana Wynne Jones came first.
There's nothing commonplace about Charmed Life: this is a fantastic story about a boy, Cat, who lives with a very ambitious witch sister after their parents drown.
This is one of the gold standards I judge children's fantasy by: it's a world of magic with true character and unique plays of ideas, particularly in the concept of a "nine lived enchanter" and a brilliant use of alternate universes that manages to feel comfortable and appropriate rather than forced and contrived.
Once again, Diana Wynne Jones did not disappoint.Gwendolen has to be one of the most cruel, ruthless, self-serving, self-important villains I've ever encountered!The world is magical, the writing is good and the main character, Scaredy Cat, endearing. Too bad that everything could have been solved, young girls would not have been uprooted from their lives and family, and lives could not have been lost from the very beginning, if only the characters had communicated with each other. sigh

Eric and Gwendolen Chant have been left orphans by a steamboat accident.
Cat, as Eric is known, seems an ordinary, very nice little boy, but his sister Gwendolen is a powerful young witch.Cat and Gwendolen are taken to live at Chrestomanci Castle with Chrestomanci, a man who controls all magic use, and his family.
Why and how Gwendolen has done this, and how it is resolved, is revealed in the story.This book was published in 1977, and I remember reading it around a year later.
It remains one of my favourite books by one of my favourite authors.
the story was about a boy named Cat and his wicked witch sister Gwendolen.
Cat , i don't know how to feel about him, but i didn't like his meek, sheepish personality either , so what if your sister's a witch and you're not??
i expected mr.Chrestomanci to be much cooler , but he only wore nice clothes :/i really wanted to like the story but i didn't :/the plot , well , let's just day there was no climax to the story line, why??
i waited and waited for something exciting to happen, but aaaall the story was just a few small secrets to be revealed at the end .
What a pleasure to reread this fantasy, first in a series, for the #1977Club! As I observe, usually a story about plucky orphans shows how tragedy or circumstances unite them agains the world, but here big sister Gwendolen is out for herself while her brother Cat struggles to find his place in a new home.Here is a link to my review:https://perfectretort.blogspot.com/20...
Ui giời giờ hiểu được lý do vì sao bà này được cả J. K. Rowling lẫn Hayao Miyazaki thần tượng. Harry Potter chắc sẽ gọi Chrestomanci là cụ. Hay quá không làm sao mà dứt ra được. Có điều không tìm thấy quyển 2 ở đâu cả, mà ngh. Bứt rứt chết người. Ai mà tặng mình luôn bộ Chrestomanci này chắc yêu ngay và luôn :)).I'm so in love with this book. Good plot, beautiful details, strong characters and lovely setting. Wish I can write something like that. Omg when and how???
In this book, for instance, Cat, the main character, is kept in the dark the whole book and he in turn keeps his handlers in the dark about what he is doing, and the whole time I’m thinking “why don’t they just tell each other?!” And my curiosity is never quite satiated until the end when everyone explains their motives.
One other problem, and I know you want to read another problem, is the cover, the blurb on the cover, and the synopsis on the back of the book.
Cat loves his sister despite her nasty personality and occasional cruelty toward him, but even he has trouble making excuses for her when she sets out to make trouble for everyone in the castle, in a ploy to force Chrestomanci to teach her more advanced and dangerous magic.
Of course, it turns out that Cat does have magic of his own, and getting out from under Gwendolen's control is just the beginning of discovering what that is.This is not my favorite book by Diana Wynne Jones, though I do like it a lot.
It's not the book that's been longest in my collection, but it's the book that I've loved consistently over the last thirty r so years.The book is from the pov of Cat, a small boy who has literally no idea of what is going on around him.
He's a small boy, doing the best he can.I love the world, a magical steampunk place.
I love het deft way that a few details givesw a glimpse of an entire world, a culture and ethos that is different than our own.
Bit of a let-down.I added a star back in for the adorable baby dragon and its timely commentary on poaching/illegal animal products trade.
I couldn't remember that it was actually still alive, and I thought Mr. Saunders was making use of a mummified dragon corpse, which I did not approve of one bit.)Four stars overall -- after a bit of a jolting beginning, I fell into the cadence of the writing and found the book quite enjoyable.
I didn't get this book at all.
Winner of awards, recommended profusely online and described as "subtle, funny and smart" by no less than Neil Gaiman...
I found it tiresome, bland and rather vacuous.
There are nice touches - Gwendolyn making the stained glass windows come to life, for one - but everything feels rather sketchy and unplanned.
Things happen for no reason to partly drawn characters without any sense of narrative drive.
Maybe I'm too old and it's something that grabs you when you're young, but to be honest I'm not sure I want to give it to him now, I'm not sure he'll thank me for it!
I am intensely jealous of DWJ's ability to weave such subtle hints throughout her impeccably crafted plots, of her wit, of her brilliant talent for creating unique and interesting magic, and of course her unforgettable characters. I GOTTA GO READ ALL THE OTHERS NOW!!!!
Like what happens when reading many Diana Wynne Jones books, I was confused at times about what was going on, how things worked in this world, and that sort of thing.
(hide spoiler)]The rules for working magic are very vague (also quite typical of a Diana Wynne Jones book), and it was left a little unclear the difference between different types of magic-workers (such as witches versus enchanters), but I think at some point I just accepted that it was going to be vague and that random magical things could happen with little explanation.
Измина доста време откакто от „Студио Арт Лайн” издадоха трилогията за магьосника Хоул на Даян Уейн Джоунс.
Влюбих се безнадеждно в една магическа вселена на подвижни и летящи замъци и къщи на много пътеки и много се надявах отново да имам възможност да чета на български нещо от тази гранд дама на младежкото фентъзи.
И ето, че най-накрая и това се случи, отново благодарение на „Студио Арт Лайн”.
„Омагьосан живот” е началото на мащабната поредица за Крестоманси, писана в период от близо три десетилетия и съдържаща общо седем книги.
С ръка на сърцето мога да кажа, че първата книга е наистина омагьосваща!
I love the Chrestomanci books with my whole heart. I didn’t read these books till I was an adult, but they are some of the best fantasy middle grade there is and somehow still make you feel nostalgic. I love the way magic works here. I love that the entire book feels very quiet—quaint, actually—but still really manages to surprise you.
He is an orphan who is completely useless at magic but his sister Gwendolen is a powerful witch.
When a distant relation bearing the title of Chrestomanci takes an interest in them and moves them to his castle with his family things become very interesting and upsetting for Cat. His sister is angered by Chrestomanci's disregard for her magical talent and an angry Gwendolen is a dangerous person to have around.
The humor and wit infused in everything they were doing around Cat and Gwendolen made the book.
"You've no right to!" "It's a pity," said Chrestomanci, "that you were taught by a hedge wizard.
It works because it ought to work, because having it work that way is cool.She was also writing before "head-hopping" (switching between third-person viewpoints in the middle of a scene) became so denigrated, and a couple of times it's disorientating.
He's afflicted with a sister named Gwendolen, who is as self-centred as a gyroscope and reacts badly to being thwarted, causing a cascade of trouble for poor Cat. By the middle of the book he's in not just one, but four or five bad situations, with no solution in sight, and all of them are Gwendolen's fault.The secondary characters are delightful.
I'm not sure what to rate this book.
I would probably never have read it if a friend hadn't recommended it to me, and this is simply because I don't read many middle-grade books.
So don't let the three star rating give you the wrong idea, because this is a great book, if not really my type of book.
Just take this paragraph for example: "As a rule, gingerbread men were fun.
But Mrs. Sharp's gingerbread men never did that.
Recommended to anyone looking for a great middle-grade read.
This is the first book in the Chrestomanci series, though not the first book in the series I have read.
Except I sort of understood the concept of the Chrestomanci, which made this book..
a little predictable.
I'm sure that when the whole concept is new, everything is just genius, because the idea behind Chrestomanci (which I obviously won't be spoiling!) is intriguing and awesome.
Diana Wynne Jones has a witty writing style and writes her books in such a way that it takes your mind of things.
Sometimes we all just need a little distraction, and this book definitely provided that for me.
I'm looking forward to more Diana Wynne Jones.
It was narrated by Tony Robinson.
I am very familiar with Tony Robinson from TV series here in the UK.
However, all I could think of was his character Baldrick from Blackadder while I was listening to it - that was what I found myself visualising and not the children this story is about.
I think this ruined the charm of the book for me somewhat.This story was written over 35 years ago and I'm really surprised that I hadn't heard of this book before - that I hadn't in fact read in when I was a child.
