https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189989.Finite_and_Infinite_Games
finite players play their finite games with the goal of "winning", which of course means that their goal is to actually BRING THE GAME TO AN END.
it is theatrical, with everyone playing not as themselves, but playing a predetermined role with strict guidelines.infinite players play with the goal of continuing the game.
it is dramatic, with surprises around every corner and constantly changing rules, with everyone just playing for the sake of continuing the game, to discover the possibilities.if this all sounds squishy and new-agey, all i can say is that it isn't.
A finite game is played for the purpose of winning, an infinite game for the purpose of continuing the play."This is the opening statement of Carse's book.
It introduces an intriguing concept of infinite game and gives us a new way to see things people do in this world.
The charm wear off quickly.Carse went on to categorize many different things into finite or infinite game.
To give you some taste of the book, finite game and infinite game are separately described as dramatic or theatrical.
This is just his game with semantics.
I bought this book in 1986 and tried to read it, but without much success.
It lay on a bookshelf for fifteen years until one sleepless night when I picked it up and thought to try again.
I swallowed it whole that night and have come back again and again with excitement and expectation.There is a group of Christian businessmen who distribute copies of the New Testament at the entrance to the student union where I teach.
I have, in fact, bought it in small numbers as a paperback and given it to close friends.
"we not only operate with each other like machines, we operate each other like machines"--okay, doesn't exactly follow the pattern above, but the goal seems to have been to write as many sentences with two parts in which the second part is minimally different but carries a very different meaning).
This was unenlightening to me in pretty much every example he goes into (war, birth, sex, society etc.).I also found myself frequently disagreeing with his examples/analogies/points.I'm not going to tell anyone not to read it, but I think you have to come into it expecting it to enlighten you and to find your own meaning in what you read.
The distinction between finite games and an infinite game is heuristically so powerful that once one has grasped it, it is almost impossible to put it out of one’s mind.
I am grateful to James Carse that he hands us a powerful language to formulate those questions.
First question of conscience.Are you genuine?
Or merely an actor?
In the end, perhaps you are merely a copy of an actor.
Second question of conscience.Are you one who looks on?
Or one who looks away and walks off?
Third question of conscience.
Do you want to walk along?
Or walk ahead?
Or walk by yourself?
Fourth question of conscience.Friedrich Nietzsche, Twilight of the Idols
This is a litmus test kind of a book.
It appeals only to a certain kind of a person (me and others like me who are strongly intellectual in orientation).
If I touch you, I must be strong.
So, moving others and touching others are opposites.
I can move you without being moved, but I cannot touch you without being touched.Distinctions of this nature abound in this slim volume.
It will challenge and delight your mind and your heart and your spirit, if you are a certain kind of person.
Written decades before, however, Carse's book is a unique and fascinating attempt to adopt the "game" as a framework for all of human behavior.The essential dichotomy is between those who play "finite games" for results, prizes, and recognition and those who play "infinite games" for the sheer joy and challenge.I read this on a plane ride over the Pacific and loved the first section but was not in the proper mental state to decode some of its more cryptic elements.
For others, Carse will offer a challenging yet fascinating world view that enables them to grow with the book.
It takes philosophy to another level you’re not used to, thinking of ideas you’re not used to in your PHI classes in college.
The whole idea of seeing everything as either a finite or infinite “game” in life brings a new understanding to relationships, too—an understanding that might actually HELP you nurture your relationships in a healthier way.
Even if you didn’t read the book cover-to-cover, there are still small concepts heading the 101 sections in the book that are so profound, they can have an impact on your way of thinking if you just sit on them for a while, letting them simmer in your brain.
Certainly the price for refusing it is high, but that there is a price at all points to the fact that oppressors themselves acknowledge that even the weakest of their subjects must agree to be oppressed."  Which made me think of Kanye...But some things I liked: "Every move an infinite player makes is toward the horizon.
"Finite players play within boundaries; infinite players play with boundaries.” "The outcome of a finite game is the past waiting to happen.
By competing for a future prize, finite players compete for a prized past.""To be prepared against surprise is to be trained.
I generally do not, and so generally did not.The author, a professor of religion, frequently introduces strange new definitions of already common terms -- society and culture, strength and power, titles and names, life and death-- these and many more are used to mean things they do not, and then other terms are defined against the new usage, and rules/laws/claims asserted in this new language.
As the origin of myself I am not also the cause of myself, as though I were the product of my own action."There is only so much of this one can tolerate when not under the influence of narcotics.A few of the ways to reframe one's stance toward life had value, but they were a stark minority.
Finite and Infinte Games is simply one of the most important books I have ever read.
Until I found this book in a thrift store I had never heard of the author.
I consider this work to be a gift, I have read it more than any other book I have ever encountered, I keep finding more and more in there and feel that this book is a model for the application of study, reflection and creativity and work for anyone who wishes to add something lasting and valuable to this world.
Both within and outside of that state there will be powerful and passionate interests, all of which will have costs and benefits to the political actors conducting the negotiations.So I was familiar with game theory in general, and thought I knew what these finite and infinite games must be, especially because Klein was dealing with political problems and situations in most of his podcast episodes.But, as I said, Carse was writing more generally: he sporadically invokes examples, but most of his text is an purely abstract argument.
Carse did not write his book as revolutionary theory (far from it), the ideas he puts forth provide useful tools for conceiving what an anarchist revolution might be.
In particular, his ideas point to why an anarchist revolution, or for that matter, any true revolution, cannot be a finite game, i.e., why it cannot operate within the logic of work.
In this way, they transform it in to a finite game, and though they might win themselves or their party a title with the power it brings, in the process they destroy the revolution and establish its end—a new state.
Continually pushing my personal horizons, Carse reminds me of what I often choose to forget: that everything of importance is rooted in personal choice, and that choice and joy are inseparably connected.It is daunting to write a review of a book that almost causally overturns much of the conventional view of society and its attendant honors.
Yet that very self-consciousness is a reminder that genuine communication is only achieved through vulnerability.
Of the four books I read in one three-week period, this was the shortest and took the longest to finish.
This book is about Carse's personal philosophy, told in a uniquely striking way. This little gem of a book is an easy read, but very deep. Carse does not try to convince the reader of his philosophy. He simply presents it, and lets the reader sort it out. Carse seems to take pleasure in taking an issue and standing it upside-down. As a result, reading this book really provokes you think about life: Life is an infinite game that provides no rules or boundaries. There are no winners or losers. Only finite games have definite rules and winners and losers.
I think this is one of those books that I will read with profit every couple of years. This book, along with James Carse's, The Religious Case Against Belief, The Inner Game of Tennis (W. Timothy Gallwey) and True and False, by David Mamet are among my favorites in making me think about how to think.
The themes of this book are not without their wisdom... but rarely have these wisdoms been presented so poorly and so uninvitingly. Mindless sentence by sentence inversions do not recreate the Hegelian style of sophistry he is clearly trying to mimic, and endless quoting of better minds and texts only reinforces the weakness of this one. Skip this for the real stuff...
Contrary to what the title might lead you to believe, "Finite and Infinite Games" is essentially an extremely dense religious/philosophical text.
He often inverts language in strange ways: "A finite player puts play into time.
An infinite player puts time into play." This makes his book particularly difficult to grok, especially when considering all of the complex topics he covers.
A comment from someone in book club was, "I would gladly sign up for a religion based on this book." Not sure I'm there yet, but we'll see what a re-read yields!Full review and highlights at http://books.max-nova.com/finite-and-infinite-games/
This philosophy is examining, analyzing and acknowledging the box, then "thinking outside the box", and then realizing that even though you have stepped out of the box, you are still in another box, albeit a bigger more expanded box which still contains you and your subjective perception, as well as the box you were previously in.
I could not help it, I know that I will go back to reading the quotes in order to gain more inspiration and freedom of thought.
I recommend this book to any body who wants to shatter their perception's boundaries and break through into a wider expanse.
A unique. enlightening, elegant and fun book to read, placing all of human behavior (and even that of the Universe) into a simple, yet all-encompassing logical formula, without resorting to divinity or leaps of faith. An amazing accomplishment.
A little-known gem of a book. Forces you to engage an out-of-the-box way of thinking, possibly leading to a whole new way understanding life. One of my all time favourites!
This is one of the best books I have ever read.It was featured in an outstanding lecture I attended at the Southern Conference of Hospital Medicine in 2013 in New Orleans.
The lecturer was Jeff Wiese, MD., a past President of the Society of Hospital Medicine (SHM).
Wiese related Finite and Infinite Games to the practice of Hospital Medicine and I was so intrigued, that I gave a talk myself on the topic, borrowing from Dr. Wiese's talk but adding much that was my own or from other sources.
It is a well-written, concise, model for viewing human behavior.
The last book that fundamentally affected my way of thinking was 'Antifragile'.
But this book took my thinking to a different plane altogether, and has probably altered it irrevocably.
Credit goes to James P Carse for at least two things - one for the thinking that clarified everything around us to this level of 'simplicity', and two, for explaining it in a manner that makes it easy to absorb."There are at least two kinds of games.
There is only one infinite game and its only purpose is continuing the play.
In this book Carse present the idea of two types of games - finite and infinite.
They have different characteristics such as in a finite game you assume a role, there are rules about the game that can't change during the game, and the game can be won or lost, and there's an audience.In infinite games rules can and probably do change, you can't win, you can only bring more people into the game to make sure that the game continues as long as possible.
Carse is a whore for needless semantic paradox. The first 20 pages are an interesting description of a rather artificial and naive world view of life as a set of games--some which must end and some which must forever continue. The remainder of the book is a tedious exposition of examples wherein Carse blithely redefines words to force various concepts into his dualistic model.
If you are going to read only a few books on Game Theory, this is one of them. Some people don't like Carse's writing style but I love it.
If there were, there would have to be a rule for those rules, and so on.""The joyfulness of infinite play, its laughter, lies in learning to start something we cannot finish.""Evil is never intended as evil.
An example, chosen at random: "For the finite player in us freedom is a function of time.
For the infinite player in us time is a function of freedom.
A finite player puts play into time.
An infinite player puts time into play."CHILLS - gets me every time.I read this when I was young and found it be a bit goofy.
And thank's Kevin Kelly.This is a cohesive, deep and philosophical but at the same time practical work, that blends:- signaling theory- non-conformity theme- process vs goals dichotomy- internal vs external locus issue- meta-patterns- delicious game theory flavor.Pro's (con's are negligible):- style of chunks similar to approach of Scott Adams- each sentence is thoughtful (sometimes even way too thoughtful) - launches thinking mode out of reading process- terse narrative (prepare steel nutcracker)- takes time to read (expect to read it long, it's scarce nowadays)- belongs to 'demanding' shelf- have extremely high highlights/total_pages ratio (0.28 to be precise; ~ on average every third page has highlight) - might be attributed to level of wisdom:Tastes like a dry flour for some, but ambrosia for others.
I naively picked this book up as a text on game theory.
It's not about game theory!It's roughly a philosophy book, with heavy use of metaphor.
It's short, but impossible to read fast, since the ideas presented required a lot of slow rumination to capture the range of meanings being offered.
It's a heady mix of psychological ideas, early childhood development studies, world religions and morality, political commentary, ideas of love and romance, and everyday philosophy.
Overall, it ends up being practical advice on approaching life situations, but required effort to follow along.
