https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274402.Free_Fall
There aren't necessarily answers to accompany those truths, but he says what you know, in ways that you couldn't say it - and somehow it's comforting to know he has seen and felt what you have.This is a book written by a literary giant, and what you find here rather depends on what you bring and at what point in your life you arrive.Here are snippets from a passage that reached me - if they leave you cold then maybe come back later:My darkness reaches out and fumbles at a typewriter with its tongs.
Your darkness reaches out with your tongs and grasps a book.
السقوط الحر ..... وليام غولدنغ(نوبل 1983)من أعمق الأعمال الروائيه التى قرأتها فى حياتى وأكثرها احترافيه.عمل أكاديمى ممتاز .عمق إنسانى ملحوظ جدا ومحير.من الأعمال التى من الممكن ان تجد صعوبه فى فهمها طول ما انت تقرأها ولكن العجيب انك ستجد نفسك تنهيها . قد لا تجد متعه كبيره فىها ولكنك ستجد أثر عظيم على نفسك منهااللغه عمليه (وأكاديميه) ومحددهتفاصيل انسانيه بالغة الروعه والابداعلطالما رأيت فى أعمال الجوائز (وخاصة نوبل) عمق وتعقيد فنى بديعالأحداث مختلطه بصورة مذهله وتجدها فجأة بسيطه.
* Kitap boyunca meydana gelen değişim ve hikayenin planlanması kusursuz. Yine de bende eksik olan şey hikayeye giremememdi. **Fazlaca dolu paragraflar ve Mountjoy karakterin hayat, kader, aşk, din vs gibi bir çok konuda ki fikirlerini karaktere nakış nakış işlemiş, zirvesinde bir yazarın, bir karakterin gelişimi okuyucuya nasıl yansıtılmalı ve hikaye anlatımının önemi üzerinde verilmiş uzman sınıfı dersi gibi bir kitap bu.
از ابتدا تا انتهای کتاب، راوی میخواهد بداند چه زمانی آزادی عمل خود را از دست داده و مسئول کارهایی که میکرده نبوده است و برای این کار زمان را زیرورو و وارسی میکند... صداقت راوی با خودش و ماجراها و آدمهای اطرافش فوقالعاده است و باید بگویم من این کتاب را که به نسبت کتاب سالار مگسها بسیار فردیتر بود، خیلی بیشتر دوست داشتم.
از ابتدا تا انتهای کتاب، راوی می‌خواهد بداند چه زمانی آزادی عمل خود را از دست داده و مسئول کارهایی که می‌کرده نبوده است و برای این کار زمان را زیرورو و وارسی می‌کند... صداقت راوی با خودش و ماجراها و آدم‌های اطرافش فوق‌العاده است و باید بگویم من این کتاب را که به نسبت کتاب سالار مگس‌ها بسیار فردی‌تر بود، خیلی بیشتر دوست داشتم.
"I am the sum of them. I carry round with me this load of memories. Man is not an instantaneous creature, nothing but a physical body and the reaction of the moment. He is an incredible bundle of miscellaneous memories and feelings, of fossils and coral growths. I am not a man who was a boy looking at a tree. I am a man who remembers being a boy looking at a tree." I can't help but feel that the writer who penned the celebrated Lord of the Flies is very underrated, and not appreciated as much a
I am a man who remembers being a boy looking at a tree."
For though this novel might not be as powerful as Golding's magnum opus, it is still a painful meditation on human freedom, the possibility and failure of intersubjectivity in our postmodern world.
Golding being one of the most empathetic writers of childhood takes us through young Sammy's life, his innocent admirations, to his adolescence and the discovery and exploration that follows of one's sexuality.
In the deterministic scheme of things where every man is the sum of all that has happened to him, where he is the convenient "effect" of sociopolitic, historical, and personal influences, what hope can he have for freedom....
Does he always come up short?Sam Mountjoy, the narrator of this story, is looking for a moment in his life when he chose one way over another.
Once I took a step back, though, I felt like I did when I watched "Reefer Madness"--as in, no shit: Mary J makes you crazy enough to kill another person?In the case of Golding's book, I wonder if he wasn't contending with his own hang-ups about sex and love and relationships that have one without the other.
Mind you, I'm not curious enough to look into this (not even on a wiki level); I do hope, though, that he didn't go through anything like his narrator.
it blew me away.The writing is amazing.
But Golding took it to a whole new level.The protagonist and narrator, Samual Mountjoy, is an artist who is recollecting when he "lost his freedom".
so Mountjoy takes us through his life, with his semi-normal Ma, Communist tendencies, calf-love with Beatrice, and prisoner-of-war experience.So the story is super interesting.
But basically, my main super-favourite thing about this book is the introspection that Mountjoy is subjecting himself to.
it's simply wonderful.Mountjoy's own personal demons are only revealed near the end, but the sense of torment and wretchedness form the backbone of the novel.
it's really beautiful.Ahh I love this book!
More accessible than the Inheritors, not nearly as bleak as Pincher Martin, Free Fall  begins to show the fruits of William Golding's experimentation after The Lord of the Flies, a labor that will eventually win him the notice and recognition of the Nobel Committee.
The writing however is so immediate and powerful, that the mere happenings of Sammy are more intense than the first fifteen minutes of Saving Private Ryan.
William Golding, all ready a master novelist, begins to hit his stride with his fourth novel, Free Fall.

I kept no notes as I read it and was enduring various major family and physical issues at the time.
He wants to discover when he lost his freedom, his power of choice.What was extremely interesting to me was that he survived all manner of horrific incidents but though in his adulthood he had managed to achieve the usual security one strives to accomplish, he had lost his personal freedom.Well, if that isn't the story of life, I don't know what is.
I have also discovered through my reading project that it was THE major concern of 1950s literature.
خیلی از تجربه چنین فضاهایی لذت میبرم.وقتی سرنخ یک "هیچ چی" رو میچسبی و پیش میری و اطلاعات اصلا بصورت نرمال در اختیارت نیست اما باز هم پی میگیری تمام واگویه ها و ذهنیات نویسنده رو و درنهایت در فضایی بین سطرهای کتاب و برداشتهای شخصی مجموعه ای شکل میگیره که قابل بیان نیست اما بشدت قابل فهمِاز کتاب:شمع زیرجامی شیشه ای میسوخت.
شمع خاموش شد، اما پیش از آن، جهانی را روشن کرد، جهانی چنان شکیل و لبریز از خرد و فرزانگی که اشک از چشم آدم سرازیر میکرد؛ راه حل همۀ مشکلها اینجاست!
This is a great book written by a brilliant author.
The first few pages are the finest I have ever read.
This book explores the existential nature of the protagonist in terms of 'free' choices that he made.
While I enjoyed the writing, I found it difficult to be taken into the flow of the story.
Some parts of the story seem to be over analyzed while some parts were underplayed.
The usage of satire is quite brilliant.
All in all it was a great read and I am glad I bought it.
Probably years later when I read it again, I will get better insights.
A instabilidade para a qual procura uma resposta, confunde-se com a busca do ponto exato em que passou a ter medo do escuro.
O banho dado pela senhora Pascoe, o padre que apaga a luz do quarto deixando um mistério a pairar na escuridão, o carrasco com o seu lado evangelizador de busca da verdade.
O prisioneiro transportado ao pináculo do templo a quem é mostrada a terra inteira, para que a sua recusa abra o caminho ao algoz.
A proximidade que esbate o desejo do predador e lhe rouba o ímpeto.
Somos verdadeiramente livres?
Ler mais em Acrítico - leituras dispersas
Golding's fourth novel is a demanding book, in more than one sense of the word.
For you were not there.It does get easier, but I found myself having to read some later sections, and a couple of whole chapters, more than once.
The structure and writing is superb, even to the title ("Free Fall", not "Free fall" or "Freefall"), the full implications of which are revealed only in the light of having read the whole book.
The final demand that the book makes, indeed, is to be read again.
I've only read one other book from Mr. Golding (Lord of the Flies, of course) and that was written in an entirely different style from Free Fall, so I couldn't help but be SLIGHTLY suspicious of some pretentious play going on here.
Regardless, I am grateful for having a book like this in my collection.
At one point I imagined what I was reading to be an autobiographical account, as it all sounded like unfiltered truth coming from the writer himself.
To be honest I only picked up this book from the give and take pile because of Lord of the Flies, held onto it for about a year and a half, and then decided to "give it a chance" by reading the first chapter before returning it to the pile.
It had interesting, and at times terrifying insights and added a lot to my "things to think about" bank.
I don't know that I will read it again but was glad that I did the first time.
While I enjoyed Golding's first two novels immensely, his following two have been needlessly confusing.
well, I am not really sure what it is - a series of loosely connected anecdotes from the main character's life, told out of sequence.
I am not really sure why Golding chose to write this way.
Lord of the Flies and The Inheritors were true novels, with engrossing stories that have plotlines.
Checking out the brief synopses for his next few, I'm fairly pessimistic about whether or not he returns to story-telling, so I've decided to skip those and read Rites of Passage next.
Strange but i think that a lot of american kids grow up having to read lord of the flies for school. After that it seems we never really think about him again unless its for a class or something. But recently (i dont remember why) i started looking towards this author again. Id have to say this book is in my opinion even better than Lord of the Flies. It wasnt anything that i was thinking it would be. The language he uses is nothing like L O T F. I highly recommend it.Slightly similar fate as George Orwell?
I was disappointed by this. It was good but I think it just lacked that unforgettable quality I have found in everything else I have read by Golding so far.
An elegant exploration of the nature of human freedom.
بارها پیش اومد که تصمیم گرفتم و این کتاب و کنار بزارم، ولی در هر صورت این کارو نکردم و الان خوشحالم که تا آخر خوندمش.سقوط آزاد کتابیه که چیزی به خواننده نمی فهمونه چون که راوی داستان هم دچیزی نمی دونه.سقوط آزاد کتابیه که باید بش اجازه بدین که راوی حرف بزنه و شما بشنوین و شنیدنی که قرار نیست زیاد متوجه حرفها بشین.البته ترجمه ی مترجم نیز بی تاثیر نیستش. به نظر من این کتاب اولویتتون برای مطالعه نباشه.
İnsanoğlu sadece bir vücut ve anlık tepkilerden ibaret bir yaratık değildir. Çeşitli hatıraların ve duyguların, fosillerin ve mercanların inanılmaz bir karışımıdır. Ben çocukluğunda sedir ağacı seyretmiş olan bir adam değilim. Ben bir zamanlar sedir ağacı seyretmiş bir çocuk olduğunu hatırlayan bir adamım. Buradaki fark, sonsuza dek uzanan ölü tuğlaların zamanıyla, başa sarıp tekrar seyretme zamanı arasındaki fark.
A world renown artist is placed in jail by the Nazi's for nothing except being an artist. He is placed in solitary confinement and hope in this place becomes psycho sensitively his surrounding his thoughts. He is pardoned and released and begins to paint pictures from the soul. He moved into the realm of ultra fantasy. This is an excellent read for the genre.....DEHS
Υποτιμημένο διαμαντάκι, ιδίως στη χώρα μας. Αντιπολεμικό σχόλιο του Νομπελούχου Γκόλντινγκ που ξαναδιάβασα στο πρωτότυπο, μετά από 28 χρόνια. Ένας τρόπος γραφής που πλέον έχει εγκαταλειφθεί κι ίσως και γι' αυτό μόνο το λόγο θα άξιζε να το διαβάσει κανείς. Σαν να γράφτηκε μόλις χθες.
Excellent prose and an interesting structure, but it didnt work for me. I could not get into the main character.
Had to stop as this book is just impossible to read!
So boring I couldn't get any further than about page 12. Mum gave it a try, with the same conclusion!
top!
The stunning opening to this hallucinogenic novel of remembrance and tragedy gripped me; a true triumph of language and prose poetry: "I have walked by stalls in the market-place where books, dog-eared and faded from their purple, have burst with a white hosanna. I have seen people crowned with a double crown, holding in either hand the crook and flail, the power and the glory. I have understood how the scar becomes a star, I have felt the flake of fire fall, miraculous and pentecostal. My yeste
The other is a memory, a sense of shuffle fold and coil, of that day nearer than that because more important, of that event mirroring this, or those three set apart, exceptional and out of the straight line altogether.
I put the day in the park first in my story, not because I was young, a baby almost; but because freedom has become more and more precious to me as I taste the potato less and less often.I have hung all systems on the wall like a row of useless hats.
В чем-то мне очень близок герой: я тоже, помнится, однажды со страхом столкнулась лицом к лицу с мыслью, что свобода - мифическое творение человека, а наши поступки, на первый взгляд совершаемые только нами и только по нашей воле, могут быть прописаны в книге мироздания.
Напротив, автор буквально с первых страниц ясно дает понять: нельзя судить себя-ребенка, будто это совсем другой человек, беззащитный ко всяким нападкам совести взрослого человека лишь потому, что он оторван от него мостом времени.
И поэтому можно ли вообще судить себя-ребенка за совершенные поступки, если в прошлом этот ребенок совсем себя не винил?
Можно ли сказать, что поступки, совершенные ребенком, совершаются только его рукой?
