https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34330645-the-naturalist
The Naturalist (The Naturalist #1) by Andrew Mayne is a book I really enjoyed. It fed my eager science side of my brain, the mystery, and the side that likes a good scare! Brilliantly written with so many little things that had to be thought through...wonderful. Going in my favorites for sure. Lots of suspense, action, mystery, and the science part of it was fun too. I love these kind of mysteries.
I love that Mayne treats the reader’s intelligence with respect and gives us lots of science info.
We’re inside Theo’s head and a lot of interesting facts and theories reside there.
There’s almost a contemplative feeling to the book as Theo spends a lot of time pondering what happened and how things connect.
But it’s an interesting ride so I was willing to do so.
I listened to this book and it works very well as an audiobook.
So there were lots of times I was twitching and flinching.
There’s already a book two in this series out, which I’ll happily check out.
You can read this and all of my reviews at Lit·Wit·Wine·Dine.Note: I originally posted that I was giving this book 3.5 stars.
The police are frustratingly unwilling to listen to Theo's opinions regarding who or what may have killed all of these women.
I actually think the final scene would translate very well in film but it just seemed a bit too much as I read it on the pages.
Had the ending been dialed back a bit, I'm sure I could have given this book four to four and a half stars.This is the first book in The Naturalist series.
I literally only put it down to sleep.For a start how wonderful to find something a bit different - I can't say I've read a book before where the main protagonist is a Computational Biologist - the author makes this sound entirely fascinating and if you have a love of finding out small random facts like I am you'll love the little titbits you find throughout this novel.
Think The Da Vinci Code, but with biology.Our story begins as computational biologist Theo Cray gets a call from the police while on a field research trip in Montana.
Following a trail of clues, Theo begins finding more victims and knows he’s getting closer to the truth, though inevitably his efforts draw unwanted attention as the police start suspecting Theo himself.The Naturalist is the perfect thriller novel for the science lover.
If I’m reading a lot more mystery-thriller these days, well, it’s because of books like this, and I can’t wait to read more from Andrew Mayne.
Funny how such lofty studies might shine a light on a recent dead body.Andrew Mayne starts his story out with a bang.
Theo Cray's motel room in a small town in Montana is under fire by the local police.
Here on out, chaos and mayhem will rule the days and the nights.Theo is finally told that a former student of his at UTA was found dead in the forest not too far from where the motel sits.
Let's see what double trouble Andrew Mayne will drop Theo into down this curving road.
Stereotypical protagonist, stereotypical antagonist, plot holes galore, interesting, if questionable, science, and first person narrative in the present tense rather than past tense. An interesting read except for disappointing final chapter or two.Personal rant: I hate plot summaries that end with a question. Will he be able to do this before that happens? Makes me lose interest in the book. Stop. Just stop.
I was pleased to choose this for my September Kindle First but in the end, I must admit to being quite happy I hadn't paid for it.
It had stereotypical cliched cookie-cutter people with inane flat conversations and a story full of plot holes and dangling threads.
What makes this doubly disappointing is that it actually started out quite well, but it began going downhill at about halfway and by the end had degenerated into madness.
If it had been a hard copy vs.
a digital copy, I would have been sorely tempted to fling it across the room.
The Naturalist is a highly readable work of fluffy entertainment, one that is strangely compelling but also not very good.Professor Theo Cray is a bioinformatics researcher, and when one of his former students is found dead in the woods, he's the prime suspect until forensics lead authorities to believe she was mauled to death by a bear.
Well, Mayne begins the freaking book with that tired old trope, and then pulls it out of his butt a few more times throughout for good measure.Cray's doctorate and research has allowed him to learn a whole lot about a very small subject, leaving him oblivious to pretty much everything else.
This was a slam dunk of a 5 star read! Very funny, also geeky on the science, clever, fast paced. I should have been able to read this in one go but it was all so exciting I had to keep putting it down! If you’re looking for a quirky original thriller, you don’t get much better than this. #Theo Cray for President
As a lifelong biology writer and amateur naturalist, the protagonist in this novel rings extremely hollow. The author claims to love science -- and I've no doubt he does -- but he should have spent more time in the research and editing phase making sure his protagonist sounded like an actual scientist and not just a weird Big Bang Theory-esque parody of one.The core conceit isn't a bad one, but it comes across as hackneyed in execution.
I alternated between this and Yuval Noah Harari's Homo Deus: A Brief History of Tomorrow, and didn't feel bad about jumping away from Harari's non-fiction.* A page turner - beyond a page turner* Great use of data and data-trends as a way of tracking the bad guys* Likeable character - he has flaws, but they make you like him - really easy to likeCon:* Mild con here - but be warned that this is a mystery where everything the main character does turns into something bigger - every hunch, every action, every offhand comment - leads to a clue to solve the mystery
If the women did not get lost in the Montana mountains but were in fact murdered, and no bodies found, could there be a serial killer effectively hiding the evidence so well that he/she could get away with over a 30 year period?The story is entertaining, but so much of the the protagonist’s activity is repetitive making the read tedious.
Secondly, the good professor is almost too good to be true, having such a vast knowledge of the environment that he outsmarts all law enforcement and locals and goes after the killer single handedly.
4.579Oh wow! I really enjoyed this. I loved the science and the main character’s thoughts were easy to understand. He was smart. For a while I was like ok, you are pushing your luck!!! But he was intelligent and I just loved the science in this and how he used what he DID KNOW to find out what he DID NOT. Can’t wait to read the next.
Really?Awful. The author was a magician and probably good at that job. A believable story teller, he is not. Too many quips, too much attitude, too much pseudo scientific facts mar this story. On the very first murder he forgot to tell you what happened to the boyfriend of the murdered girl who was camping with her. Too much blood to be believable. Please go back to being a magician.
In this mystery-suspense-thriller, the story opens with Professor Theo Cray, a computational biologist, being questioned about a possible murder of a former student.
He is released when police determine that a bear or mountain lion was involved.
Professor Theo Cray is a remarkable character.
I can’t vouch for the accuracy of the police procedures, medicine, or forensics, but I have a feeling some of it was over the top.
I don’t often read series, but I just may have to pick up the sequel to see what Professor Cray gets up to next.
Recommended to readers that enjoy mystery-thrillers with a side of science.
The main character in this book is the total opposite of a traditional protagonist - he's a socially awkward wuss brainiac who stumbles into a crime initially thought to be a bear attack.
I bought into the scientific approach used by Professor Theo Cray as a replacement for formal sleuthing and enjoyed his total lack of physical presence and near complete inability to relate to people.
Unfortunately, the book doesn't do much to foster the question readers could have started to ask: is he the psychopath killer or just an awkward amateur investigator professor genius?
Enjoyable readThe geekiness of the main character appealed to me. Normally I do not like books written in the first person but this time I think it actually works for the story. The many short chapters sort of chopped up my reading flow though. I do think I will seek out some of this author's other books because overall I was pretty impressed with the handling of the characters and storyline.
3.5/5 starsIf you enjoy the tv channel Investigation Discovery or shows like Forensic Files, then Andrew Mayne's  The Naturalist  is the perfect read for you! It is a quick, dark read that doesn't sugar coat the plot, while not explicitly getting too grotesque. The story starts off with Dr. Theo Cray being questioned about the disappearance of one of his past students, Juniper, who police claim has a direct link to Dr. Cray. After routine questioning, police confirm Juniper's death as an acciden
The story starts off with Dr. Theo Cray being questioned about the disappearance of one of his past students, Juniper, who police claim has a direct link to Dr. Cray.
Dr. Cray, professor and biologist, can't leave well enough alone because if Juniper was a dedicated student of his, she would know how to react to a bear in the woods.
Through Dr. Cray's investigation, he realizes that things aren't always what it may seem.
This book is approximately 400 pages, but the dialogue isn't overtly sophisticated so you can easily brush through this read quickly.
3.75-ish. At times it was predictable and slow going... like the word "blood" should freak me out. Then it would amp up to full on descriptive dead things. Development of live secondary characters was sparse, but I felt like I knew the victims well. Strange. However, I might read the next in series.
This book follows Theo, the quintessential, socially awkward, and common sense lacking scientist, as he gets caught up in the hunt for the serial killer responsible for the death of his former student.
If you're science minded and are going to split hairs over every theory, walk away but if you want to enjoy and excellently written story with one of the best endings ever, read on!This is my first book by Andrew Mayne but I am chomping at the bit to move on to the next one.
Remarkably original thriller about Dr. Theo Cray, a mild mannered science professor on a personal mission to prove the existence of a human serial killer who he believes, frames bears for his kills. As ridiculous as that sounds, it makes for a truly mesmerizing thriller that I was unable to put down. This is the first book I've read by this gifted author and certainly will not be my last.
Really fun exciting read. Theo Cray is a research professor on a field trip in Montana, a bear attack to an old students leads to an exciting story.
Generally speaking, the story line was stupid, the characters were shallow and poorly developed, the action scenes were overly complicated and hard to envision, and the main character was so boring, I don't even remember his name.
The first 30% of the book was like reading an encyclopedic entry on bears.
The book was peppered with scenes and set ups that had nothing to do with the story, only to provide a solution on the following page.
The main character (still can't remember his stupid name), would go into great detail explaining the most obvious simple thought process.
This book is one of the best reasons why I shouldn't rely on others to tell me what needs to be read because "you will not be able to put it down.
Well, I hate to disappoint but I did put this book down, a lot.
So much so that I at times read five pages and got up to do something else, not going back to the book for days.
However, there a lot of plot holes in this book that I couldn't get over.
They don't believe his theories so he sets out to prove them and find a serial killer no one has the least idea exists.There's a lot of "science" in the book, since that's how Dr. Cray tracks down his leads.
I really don't know much about the sort of science Andrew Mayne used in the book, but it was convincing enough ala "CSI" type techniques to drag me along.
Mayne puts his characters through the wringer time and again, and the plot kept me reading without anything like a lull in the action.If you like mystery-thrillers, serial killer chases, and unusual detectives, you will LOVE this book.
He uses his improbable set of nerdy talents to figure it all out, all the while getting beaten, shot and generally mishandled by most everyone he meets along the way.
The plot and storyline become increasingly implausible as the book progresses, and in general, it is all pretty choppy and poorly written.
I will give it 2 starsbecause it clips along pretty nicely and held my attention, but this book yet again reaffirms why I need to be more careful with my reading choices.
An unexpected pleasure.
I don't know why I approached it with such suspicion -- maybe I no longer trust the Amazon or Goodreads algorithms.
He's eventually set free and the police conclude that the attacker was, in fact, a bear.
But Theo, shaken by the loss of a former student, applies his knowledge of patterns and decides it is not, in fact, a bear.The rural Montana police don't appreciate the professor questioning their capabilities and it doesn't go well for him for a while.
As I said, an unexpected pleasure and I'll be grabbing the second one in the series shortly.
I loved the first half of The Naturalist.
The clever and humble but socially awkward biologist who notices things that law enforcement doesn't, and uses his noodle to progress the case.
I was thinking that this is a series I can get behind.But then it took a turn.
(view spoiler)[A romance that felt contrived and unnecessary to me, and which conveniently helps the plot to move forward in the second half.
Our nerdy scientist turns nearly action hero and is full of testosterone and bravado, in order to protect his woman.
(hide spoiler)] In short, the ending is more action-y than is to my taste.
SurpriseThis is what storytelling is all about. I was entertained, puzzled, educated, surprised, and satisfied. Reading is a pleasure when you are sure it is time well spent. Do yourself a favor and spend some time here. I am getting another one of Andrew Mayne's works immediately.
