https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33733.Strange_Bedpersons
Nick trying to change Tess from thrift store clothes to name brand suits and jeans.
Tess had a hard time keeping her thoughts to herself.
I loved how even though Nick was all about his job he still took the time to do some good things because of Tess.
I found Tess to be a little selfish at times but I also understood that she didn't want to completely change.
I'm glad she finally seen the light after Nick explained his reason to needing to make partner.
At one point toward the end I was laughing so hard I had tears in my eyes.
If only they'd known how different they were before they fell in love...This book wasn't really quite a 4 for me because I found both Nick and Tess a bit obnoxious and closed-minded.
I would have liked to see more of the side romance of the best friends (although Crusie does an excellent job structuring it in small fragments).
Also, I felt like it was in many ways a reworking of Crusie's The Cinderella Deal.
I mean, obviously this is a classic romance plot, but it seemed a bit like cheating for the same author to use such similar tropes twice.
4  stars. One of my favorite reads breaks one of my Romancelandia rules: second chances. I almost feel that there should be two or three types of second chances: 1) first love/high-school (that never got off the ground), 2) their adults who had a one night stand or one week-end stand and now they meet again, or 3) they had a relationship and it’s been awhile since they’ve seen each other. Or maybe a fourth: 4) where the couple was actually married and are now find each other still attracted.My
One of my favorite reads breaks one of my Romancelandia rules: second chances.
I almost feel that there should be two or three types of second chances: 1) first love/high-school (that never got off the ground), 2) their adults who had a one night stand or one week-end stand and now they meet again, or 3) they had a relationship and it’s been awhile since they’ve seen each other.
I'm not really big on second chances at a loving relationship this time around.
For my rule, I'm talking about after the couple breaks up.
I hate to give a Crusie book such a low rating.
It's a fun, quick read, typical Crusie humor, although the premise is a little too category romance for my taste.
she's a flakey free spirit!) got a little repetitive and tired towards the end.
Nick, in fact, kind of bends over backwards to accommodate Tess through the entire second half of the book, and she still selfishly thinks that Nick is trying to suppress her personality.
Tess has to learn how to compromise, how to pick her battles, but I don't think she ever quite learns that.
Tess, a free spirit and recently out of work school teacher, is talked into posing as an uptight and materialistic lawyer's fiancée so that he can land a plumb account and assure partnership in the law firm he's employed by.
When Tess's apartment in the slums is vandalized she's left with no choice but to temporarily move into the sexy lawyer's fancy house.
I thought this plot worked more effectively in Crusie's THE CINDERELLA DEAL.Still STRANGE BEDPERSONS was a good read and I'd definitely recommend it because Crusie's wicked sense of humor carried the story for me.
The happy-ever-after ending became Tess' philosophy for life; "I had a friend a very long time ago who used to say that the only way to live life was to look for the best in every day and make sure I had a part in creating some of it.
That still works for me."Nick rocks Tess' world but she hates how obsessed he is with his job and his quest to make partnership.
Now Tess has a real dilemma; does she expose Welch as the plagiarist that she knows he is and ruin Nick's chance to become partner, or does she shut up and go against everything she's ever believed in.I loved Nick and Tess and their conflict as opposites.
I am not even going to pretend to understand.Gina is the best friend everShe tells her friend it's a bad idea to behave the way she is behaving (she was basically being herself) because it would cost Nick his job.She also accuses her of being selfish when she is basically changing her personality so that Nick has a better chance of becoming partner.When Park (the guy she lurvs) insults Tess, she offers no support.When something really hurts Tess but Park doesn't think it's a big deal and basically doesn't give two fucks she chooses a guy she just met over her best friend who is hurting.
Hell he should have to pay for his choices.He had a complete personality transplant all because of lurv.

Except for the implosion of insanity that is the last thirty pages, which is somewhat delightful, but in a baffling sort of way, as the reader tries to follow the rapidly shifting positions of several of the characters.The first bit can be boiled down to Nick is a proper, ambitious, Republican lawyer who wants to MAKE PARTNER.
The positions on both sides are just so extreme.And of course there's a conflict when the client Nick is wooing has written a book mocking something very important to Tess and it gives her a cause!
Except she also doesn't want to screw up Nick's chance for partner.
The story line was a bit dated.
Mostly, I was annoyed by her attitude towards Nick who was a stand-up guy, if a bit tightly wound and controlling at times.
Because Nick's career and desire for success doesn't meet her values, she can't look beyond her own needs until she is confronted by a friend.
I did find parts of the story cute and when Tess wasn't being awful to Nick, they had some great chemistry.
I wouldn't recommend it to anyone not a big Crusie fan.
But then maybe her books wouldn't be so much fun.
Eh, like the beginning and middle, not so much the ending. Not my favorite of Cruise's books but it did make me laugh a few times, so it wasn't all awful. I just felt that the couple in this book had too much of opposite personalities and ways of thinking to make their relationship last long term. That's all.
Not really the right time for me to read about republicans being the most reasonable. Except where the clothes are concerned, because fuck him. Also probably a reread.
This is how life should be: you laugh all the time, surrounded by the people you love.
I liked this book.
Tess and Nick felt like two real individuals.
This isn't a book where two people meet and fall in love.
The scene near the end, the Drunken Dinner as I like to call it was hysterical.
He chose her in the end, but the entire time that they were getting to know each other, he was seeing other women!
Bad, bad Park.There is one character that I really, really like in the book and that's Christine.
It's another early one (1994) and that shows through a bit.
Indeed, the book's biggest weakness is that Tess and Nick really have no foundation for a trusting relationship and it takes most of the book for them to build one—and that foundation doesn't really hit until way after the "I love yous".I was also mildly disappointed with the fairly rampant conservative bashing as there is an overt political edge to the story.
As with the foundation of trust issues, this moderates a lot later on and draws to a satisfying conclusion—which was a huge surprise, let me tell you, as I was expecting more of the typical surface treatment where conservative equates with bad and all the movement is in one direction.
Hmmm...So yeah, rocky, but satisfying in the end.
I also read the whole thing and I don't know why!
Ok, so Tess is a liberal hippie who just wants peace and justice and to teach some kids (she does very little teaching).
She does have a barf scene which is pretty cool.Tess wants to work at a fancy school that ends at 1:00 so she can volunteer tutor some poor kids at some foundation that lost its funding.
And when the hero from the commune rises from the dead I wanted to throw the book across the room.
A tad bit too over the top funny to take too seriously, but it was enjoyable in a cute sort of way and It made me laugh out loud quite a few times.
I don't usually like getting back to together romance but the way this one was done was entertaining, so I forgave the too funny by half outlandish comedic aspect that went a little too far at times.
The interactions between her and the hero were very entertaining.
What really got on my nerves though was the heroine's indecisiveness regarding the hero.
It caught me by surprise because I wasn't expecting it at the time.
I like surprises in my romance.
Maybe I'm a boring person. I seem to prefer the Jennifer Crusie books that don't have mystery, intrigue or some crazy adventure. Strange Bedpersons has very little plot, but a lot of heart. The only obstacles that really face the main characters are themselves. And I'm a sucker for a story about people who shouldn't love each but do. I flew through this one in a couple of nights, and it was silly, frivolous, and very satisfying.
I liked the style writing and the humour, but I just can't get over what a self-centered, arrogant b*tch the heroine was. The hero is a ambitious lawyer and as the heroine is a bit of a free-spirited hippy, this makes him the enemy. For no reason whatsoever. At all. The only redeeming quality was the secondary romance between Gina and Park. And even that was a bit insipid.
Me pareció muy extraño que sea el hombre el que quisiera la relación y ella fuese la renuente
A delightful light rom-com from Jennifer Cruise. The character work was a little over the top for me which left some of the interactions between Tess and Lanny awkward. Was it wickedly witty as the cover suggests? Not really. It was cute, and exactly what I needed after the monster trilogy I just finished.If you’re looking for light and airy, this might be the book for you. Happy reading!
It’s above Bet Me, below Fast Women. The books with the fairy tale elements are my least favorite so far, even when Crusie subverts it. Screwball and crime fic is much more my speed. I’ll thumbs up this dialogue, though, every time.
Crusie is my go-to beach/pool reading and this doesn't let me down. Light, just a bit ridiculous, but still so fun.
Muy bueno un poco lento al principio pero me gusto mucho el misterio de Lanny, me encanto Nick a su modo amaba muchísimo a Tess a pesar de que ella era un verdadero dolor de trasero
I think I figured out the shocking ending about a third of the way in.
There's a fantastic, mortifying scene with his uptight parents that reads as a dress rehearsal for the even better scene in Bet Me. I love how, after running around and trying to be subtle, her characters have a tendency to give up and just say what they're thinking in the most hilarious way possible, even if that's telling the high society mother that the reason Tess keeps dropping her fork is that they're conferring under the table, and just give them a minute down here.
I would first like to start out by saying that this book was eye-rolling-ly predictable.
It was like a hallmark movie, with more sex..and boring sex to boot.
The leading lady(Tess) was the stereotypical red headed, free spirited 'spit fire'...mismatched furniture..you're a yuppie if you want to make money type.
Tess was selfish and only wanted things done her way.
There were a few comments that made me chortle.Another thing that bothered me..I didn't even know what Gina looked like till the end of the book.
First she was described as 'Ethnic'.
Eventually they say she's Italian..which doesn't get me far either but it's better than Ethnic.
I love Crusie's books.
They are full of quirky, but fun characters.
Tess is a crusader for the down-trodden while Nick is trying to make partner at a law firm.What I enjoyed:* The secondary characters.
I love Christine, the secretary as she just ignores what Nick tells her and does what should be done.* Tess.
She does need to grow up some, but she is fun.
I wonder if she ever got a "Henderson" of her own.* Nick.
And then there was the bit with the fork.* The red pianoRe-read - I still love this book and at its age it still holds up.
Everybody is a stereotype: Crusader Commune Chick finds herself in love with her polar opposite, the Sexy Lawyer Guy; madcap hijinx ensue when her best friend Gina the Dancer happens to meet and fall in love with SLG's uptight best friend whose father owns their law firm.
I had no business reading this, I don't do chick lit.
I knew from the first page this wouldn't go over well, but as a rule I have to finish whatever book I start.
But to be honest, I just couldn't stand the voice - kind of sex-obsessed virgin?
Harlequin Romance meets Sex & The City?
I wish Crusie could write chick lit all the time.
I mean just hearing her characters talk and banter is such a fun time, and they're all so real and great to hang out with.
Tess is an awesome heroine, I loved her penchant for saving the world and thrift clothes.
Nick was realistic too, and I also adored the side characters, particularly Nick's secretary.I'm trying to pace myself and not devour all of her (old-ish?) books at once, buuuut it's hard.2015 Pop Sugar reading challenge: a book from an author you love but haven't read yet
I loved so many things about this book.
Sure, there were certain points when I just wanted to scream in anger because one of the them was being extremely selfish but in real life no one is perfect, so i feel this book made me feel i was reading about someones life.
The over-all story is adorable & I expected nothing less from Jennifer Cruise.
If you are already a fan of Cruise, i am sure you will enjoy this book.
If you have never read a Jennifer Cruise book, what are you waiting for?
Grade: B I liked this book. It's the pairing between a yuppy lawyer and a free-thinking, liberal, hippy-like female. The very 80's political style -- even though it was released in the early 90's -- with references to Nancy Reagan and the Quayles dates the story. I loved the whole crazy relationship between these two very different people, with their prejudices against each other, their love and compromises. My favorite scene? The absolutely crazy scene in the restaurant.
