https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1249410.On_The_Art_Of_Reading
Often verbose and occasionally witty, Sir Arthur asserts that literature teaches "What Is" (as opposed to the "What knows" of science); not lifeless facts, but thoughts about what it means "to be." All great literature, says he, (1) speaks to the spiritual element of man, (2) is universal to all men, and (3) is permanent (i.e. survives centuries of sifting)."While pleading before you that Reading is an Art - that its best purpose is not to accumulate knowledge, but to produce, to educate a man - that 'tis a folly to bite off more than you can assimilate - and that with it, as with every other art, the difficulty and the discipline lie in selecting out of vast material what is fit, fine, and applicable." (from lecture II)To sum up his ideas, he encourages quality over quantity and slow-savoring vs.
The best way to learn to write is to read good literature and to write. The author gives more excellent advice about what to read, and how literature should be taught, examined and written about. Also read "On the Art of Writing"
A series of lectures on how, what, and why to read. It's almost a hundred years old now, but the lessons are just as relevant to day as back then. Probably the best piece of advice was to read Paradise Lost when I turn 30.
This book was excellent, witty, and fun. It ought to be read by anyone who teaches literature, whether English or otherwise. It was so good, I can even forgive Q for being such a Marcionite.
This book collects a second set of lectures Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch gave at Cambridge University to defend the decision to create a chair there for the study of English Literature.
The reader also won’t be surprised at Quiller-Couch’s gallery of greats, with Shakespeare, Milton, and the Authorized Version (“King James”) of the Bible occupying pride of place.It might surprise some that a translation of a body of writings from ancient Hebrew and Greek, produced by a committee, should appear alongside Shakespeare, but Quiller-Couch maintains its eminence as the first great achievement of English prose.
At any rate, Quiller-Couch maintains that literature is the pre-eminent means of this highest form of knowledge.
I love Q.
I don't often agree with his taste, and I sadly don't have the Greek he assumes I know, but reading him makes me happy.
Just because he wasn't thinking of me as his student doesn't mean I'm not.I also discovered, reading this particular book on my phone, that I love reading old books on modern screens.
There's something odd and marvelous about reading a lecture he gave exactly 100 years earlier, to the day, and doing so on a tiny, incredibly powerful machine he couldn't even have imagined.
Excellent! So many quotes. Here are a few:"To nurse that spark, common to the king, the sage, the poorest child—to fan, to draw up to a flame, to ‘educate’ What Is—to recognise that it is divine, yet frail, tender, sometimes easily tired, easily quenched under piles of book-learning—to let it run at play very often, even more often to let it rest in what Wordsworth calls a wise passivenesspassive—to use a simile of Coventry Patmore—as a photographic plate which finds stars that no telescope can
Here are a few:"To nurse that spark, common to the king, the sage, the poorest child—to fan, to draw up to a flame, to ‘educate’ What Is—to recognise that it is divine, yet frail, tender, sometimes easily tired, easily quenched under piles of book-learning—to let it run at play very often, even more often to let it rest in what Wordsworth calls 	a wise passivenesspassive—to use a simile of Coventry Patmore—as a photographic plate which finds stars that no telescope can discover, simply by waiting with its face turned upward—to mother it, in short, as wise mothers do their children—this is what I mean by the Art of Reading." Lecture II"A teacher, as I hold, should watch for what his pupil divines of his own accord .
Mainly scanning through to anything of interest. Most of it is above my level of comprehension. Does discuss much on the Bible as literature. And covers what children should read and why.
