https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2886947-danger-point
She makes it obvious she wants Lisle out of the way so she can have Dale for herself.Several attempts are made on Lisle’s life and any one of them could have been fatal, but so far Lisle’s luck has held and she makes an unsteady pathway through this minefield of people whose good wishes she can’t be sure of.Written in 1941, I find it interesting to visit an era where customs and people’s roles in life are so different – yet crime and motives for murder are just as they are today.
Real Rating: 2.5* of fiveThat was a very drab entry into the series.
Miss Silver was stitched onto an existing thriller...no real mystery about whodunit or why...like rickrack onto an old blouse.Jeesh.
Pobody's nerfect, and every series has its saggy moments, but this was flat-out dull.
And the gallons of dreadful Victorian verse spewing from so many orifices...!
The mustachio-twirling villain, the airheaded drip of a woman without the oomph even to try something to save her own damned life!
Strictly for completist series readers hooked on Miss Silver.
Lisle, the main character, got on my nerves after two pages. She is a total nincompoop who lets people walk all over her. There were moments when I could have strangled her. What was it that made me go on with the book? Well, I wanted to know the end, even if the end had meant that Lisle would be murdered.It must have something to do with the fact that Patricia Wentworth knows how to tell a story.
Patricia Wentworth is one of my favorite mystery writers ever!
Not great literature, but an exciting story and written well enough that I ignore everything around me when I'm immersed in one of her books.
Danger Point (also known as In the Balance) is about a young married woman who is being plagued by "accidents" and the breakdown of her marriage.
Miss Silver, Wentworth's most famous dectective, makes an appearance but does little detecting.
Honestly, I'm not a huge fan of Miss Silver so this is a plus for me.
I prefer Wentworth's mysteries without the little dowdy detective.
Still I'll take Wentworth fluff over pretty much any other fluff out there.
Obviously, Miss Silver is the thread that connects all these books, but it is a very slender thread. In my opinion, they could all stand on their own.
I love this series.
Always backed up by one of her ex pupils, Randal Marsh or Frank Abbott, who are detectives in the police force.Diana Bishops narration of the Miss Silver mysteries is to me the definitive voice of the audiobooks, just like Joan Hickson is for me the definitive Miss Jane Marple.If you like the review and would like to read my other reviews on books I have read, visit my blog at www.finalchapterreadersgroup.wordpres......
like, comment and follow.
Miss Silver is on the train to London when she meets Lisle Jerningham, a beautiful young heiress, who while staying with friends overheard a conversation to the effect that her recently wed husband Dale, whose wealthy first wife Lydia died in an accident, thus giving him the use of her inheritance, might be planning a similar fate for her.
Dale's other cousin, Alicia, whose rich husband died in an accident at about the same time that Lydia did, quite clearly hates her -- because, Rafe says, Alicia madly loves Dale and the two would have married years ago had the siren call of money not led them to different spouses.Already Lisle has nearly drowned in a situation where Dale could have saved her; luckily a passer-by came to the rescue.
Silver is on the train returning from her holiday with her niece when a young lady stumbles into her compartment.
The young woman, Lisle overheard some women gossiping about her husband.
His wealthy first wife's death may have not have been accident and now that his estate is in jeopardy again will Lisle be next?
Like in Daphne Du Maurier's Rebecca the new bride is frightened into thinking her husband is the killer of his first wife.
And, also like in Rebecca you will be at the edge of your seat wondering if the husband is misunderstood or a monster.
She had just overheard a conversation that suggested that husband’s first wife died of an accident, that that money she left him had saved his family home.
Now he had run out of money again, he had acquired another wife with money, and maybe she would have an accident too …When the train reached London Miss Silver pressed one of her business cards into Lisle’s hand, and said that she should call if there was ever anything at all she might do to help.Lisle felt terribly alone.
This is the second Miss Silver mystery that I have read and it was just as good as the first.
This is a good old fashioned mystery series.
I like to read a series in order, but these are perfectly fine as stand alone reads.
I like them so much, that I will likely buy and read the ones that I hadn't purchased the first time.
Patricia Wentworth is a master of the mystery and I like the fact that the other characters in the book are so much in the forefront.
I like the writing and descriptions and the time period.
Good books.
The Danger Point begins in the most delightful way, with the inimitable Miss Maud Silver bumping into a distraught Lisle Jerningham on a London-bound train.
Or is it?But the novel, the fourth in the Miss Silver series, doesn't live up to that auspicious beginning.
After all, why should we care more about whether she lives or dies than she apparently does?A bad Patricia Wentworth novel is better than a lot of other authors' best effort, but The Danger Point is definitely not up to the usual standard of a Wentworth mystery.
This story is outrageously annoying really .I just don't get it why Lisle behaves time and again so foolishly and unfortunately till the very last moment when her husband shows his true color .Even after seeing her husband kiss someone else would not convince her what she is afraid to believe .I almost flickered through the book in the middle part of the story to make myself less furious ...Speechless .... But maybe lisle is too innocent. Or naive .... Anyway not this one .I did enjoy several books written by Wentworth but not this one
It's a very uncomfortable read and very much before it's time. I've read books from this era that contain abusive husbands before, but it's usually the nasty landlord who uses his fists or guarded hints about horrible old peer who no one likes and ends up with a knife in his back by chapter two. This is different, it's about the upper classes and a emotionally abusive husband. It's well written and the subject is handled beautifully, but may be too raw for a lot of readers.
Danger Point (Miss Silver #4), Patricia Wentworth
This morning I finished another great mystery!
"In the Balance" by Patricia Wentworth is the fourth of thirty-two in the series.
Wentworth is one of the "Golden Age" British writers whose careers defined mystery for several generations.
Like other authors of this period, Wentworth's detective is elderly, observant, and uses powers of reason and deduction to solve crimes.
I strongly suggest this series, while there are sometimes minor references to previous cases reading in order is not required.
If you are looking for a mystery that requires attention and thought rather than a tolerance for blood this is an author you must read.
2.5 stars. This is the 3rd Wentworth book I've read and the poorest of the three; the other 2 were from later in the series.
Maybe not quite as good as the first 3 in the series, but still good. I wish the protagonist, Lisle, had been a little sharper, a little feistier. She was so afraid at times and yet refused to act on her fear or do anything much to protect herself. One of the things I really like about the series is that Miss Silver is an actual private investigator and not an interfering busybody who just happens to come across dead bodies with alarming regularity.
Young and wealthy Lisle Journingham thinks her husband may be trying to kill her, because she doesn't want her money to go to the continual upkeep of the vast family mansion.
Miss Silver advises Lisle to change her will at once, and let everyone know she's done it.
You know your husband is trying to kill you, yet when he urges you to sneak out of the house at night and meet him at a dangerous and secluded place on the beach, you say, "Of course darling.
I know that being pathetic doesn't mean she deserves to die, but she did everything in her power to help it along.
This is not one of Patricia Wentworth's better Miss Silver mysteries.
Usuallly, I enjoy these very British mysteries in which retired governess Miss Maud Silver uses her listening skills and inconspicuous appearance to elicit information from people whose lives have been touched by crime.
Miss Silver barely appears in the book, and has no role whatsoever in the denouement.I gave the book two stars because despite its deficiencies as a mystery, the book is a lovely period piece.
I read this book under the title (published in 1941 on war time cheap paper) "In the Balnce." Miss Silver and Inspector March make some background efforts to solve the mystery, but it is one of the suspects who saves the day. The heroine is pretty much in shock for most of the book. Understandable, as we watch her world dissolve to a point where death seems a welcome relief. Fortunately, this is a Wentworth where there is rarely, if ever, an ending where a murderer goes either uncaught or unpunished.
Have now read 5 of these Miss Silver books. Reading out of order because I had to wait for ILL to arrive. This has been the least satisfactory in terms of how spineless and weak Lisle the heroine/intended victim was. Still, ended up enjoying for the second case of Miss Silver working with her former young charge Randal March who is now a policeman and trying to use the new technology of fingerprinting off fabric. Set in 1939 England.
"Does a man suddenly become a murderer, or has the cold, ruthless streak been there always? If you matter too much to yourself, if your possessions matter too much, then other people's interests, other people's lives, may come to matter so little that they can be sacrificed without a qualm." This story was sort of intense. I'm on to the next in the series.
Really sad that some people cannot love others only things and themselves. I wonder if it is impossible for a sociopath to love anyone.
I usually enjoy reading the Miss Silver stories, but this one wasn't one of them.
Bring things to a head." A too sweet, naive wealthy young woman (Lisle) marries Dale Jerningham only to learn later that he may have married her for her money.
Now Dale has spent all her money maintaining his family's 500 year old estate, Tanford, hence marriage to Lisle.
from there the story drags on and on as Lisle vacillates back and forth ...
Miss Silver plays a small part in this story, trying to convince Lisle to change her will and tell them all that she is leaving her money to charity.
Miss Maude Silver, the unlikely Private Investigator in 1940's Great Britain, is joined in her train compartment by a very frightened and flustered young woman.
Miss Silver elicits her story, which is that she has overheard gossip that claims here husband's first wife died suddenly and maybe not by accident.
Their husband-in-common is land wealthy and cash poor.Miss Silver is just able to give the young woman her business card as she exits the train, and by that time Lisle has talked herself out of fearing her dashing husband.But as we follow Lisle back to her new home we see that there is really no one there she can trust among the staff and family members in residence.
Generally, I like the Miss Silver mystery series when I'm in the mood for a lighter, more cozy-type mystery.
Still, I enjoy most of them and I recognize that this was likely the norm of the culture back in the 1930s.
The threatened heroine was such a foolish milquetoast who reacted so inappropriately to everything that I found her completely unlikable.
The actions and attitudes of family and friends surrounding her were so "off" that they seemed unlikely, too.
I ended up finishing it, but IMO it was far from the typical enjoyable storyline in other Miss Silver books.
Wentworth was still finding her stride when she wrote this book. Miss Silver hardly figures at all, and she certainly has not been hired to do any sleuthing. I feel the characters are not all that well-developed. Lisle Jerningham, the heoine is kind of limp personality without many powers of descretion--and hardly any instinct for self-preservation. Because the murderer's motivation is central to his personality, that part gets more attention. Not Wentworth's best effort, but interesting for watching the writer's skill develop into telling other, better stories.
This is a very poor and very dull mystery book. First off the bat, Wentworth has disregarded the rule of mystery writing, that the murder should take place in the first 50 pages. It's more like 110 pages when the body shows up.Other issues I have with this book is the plot is paper thin, stretched unreasonably over 329 pages, and there is no mystery at all as to who the guilty party is. It's billed as a Miss Silver mystery, but she does nothing, no detecting or anything - the murderer reveals themselves.
This is a very good, early Patricia Wentworth mystery involving Miss Silver. In this novel, Miss Silver encounters a deeply troubled young woman who believes she is a target of assassination. But she won't engage Miss Silver or the police, so she remains in danger. Miss Silver tries to advise her, while working with the investigator when a woman wearing the target's coat is thrown off a cliff. It's a very good read.
Not one of Wentworth's best. For the part Miss Silver paid she might as well of not spent the train fare to Ledlington....or however you spell the town. I figured out who the killer was from the beginning....and the subject of the will and Miss Silver's suggestion about it is in another of the Miss Silver books.
