https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197193.The_Family_of_Man
A well-intentioned and groundbreaking photo exhibition, memorialized in book form.
I appreciate the theme of common humanity in The Family of Man, and a lot of work must have gone into choosing its photos.
However, Edward Steichen's emphasis on the United States/the western world felt off-putting and unrepresentative of all of humanity.
He also could have picked pictures more illustrative of the full gamut of human emotions.
Roland Barthes's 1957 critique of The Family of Man spoke to me - I wonder how this exhibit would look like today.
Continuously in print since 1955, I have given away innumerable copies of it over the years.Carl Sandburg, Steichen's brother-in-law and author of its prologue, was a friend of the family, his wife maintaining a goat farm down the beach from my Dad's mother's place on Lake Michigan.
Father relates that when he was little Carl would try out his children's stories on him and the other kids in what was then a Norwegian lakefront community.Of course, I never met the famous man, just heard about him a lot, listened to an album of his reading some of those children's stories and saw his books on the shelves.
Interesting as a historical document -- an important moment in photography -- but frustrating in and of itself.
and almost never a city outside the US, just country names, or "Arctic"?), the used of a mixed bag of decades of photographs with no indication that some photos are less than contemporary with the exhibition, and the seeming overrepresentation of traditional dress on the European continent (partly attributable to the use of photos from earlier decades) -- those all nag at me.
As a document of its time -- that is, of how its time began to see itself -- it is, however, interesting.
The Museum of Modern Art in New York displayed a photographic exhibit in 1955.
The exhibit was three years in the making with over two million submissions of photos.
Author Edward Steichen, notes it was a daunting task to reduce the photos first to ten thousand, then 503 photos from 68 countries.
What I love about this book in addition to the amazing photos are the quotes from poets, The Bible, Anne Frank, etc.
If one cannot afford to travel, there are always books.
A book like this one takes you all over the world and gives one perspective.
The religiosity was unnecessary, and even a tad corny in context. However, I did enjoy the groupings of photographs from all over the world around different themes of the human condition: love, lust, birth, death, war, atomic bombs (the book has a definite era). I think that decision helps to break down barriers between groups, and to showcase the commonalities. The civil rights section was especially powerful. And sadly still relevant, today. Buy this title from Powell's Books.
I was pleasantly surprised to find this at a local resale bookstore for only $1, and even more surprised at how much I enjoyed the images. This collection is great and, I think, can stand without historical context. However, historical context really adds to how much one can appreciate it.I can only imagine what it was like to attend the exhibit and see this global community displayed in a grand fashion.
The common theme of life is reinforced. By reading this book and looking at the photographs it is clear that, despite wide cultural divides, man has one common human theme. We all need love, shelter, food, etc. I gave this book as a gift and neglected to buy one for myslef. The hard back edition is now out of print. I would like to pick up another copy for a coffee table book. I alternate the books on my coffee table for both myself and for visitors. This is a great one to share.
A classic collection of black and white photographs from around the world--accompanied by quotes from famous people--moving pictures from the Great Depression.Published by MOMA I had this in my home growing up and still have it to pass on. This is a keeper. Prologue was witten by Carl Sandburg--book created by Edward Steichen. This book if food for thought.
I remember my parents getting this book in the middle 50s. It influenced me enormously and made me want to capture important events on film. It is the first book of photos I remember buying, and I own hundreds of them. Yes, it is dated. But it shows a glimpse of a time that has gone by - and shows it without makeup or artifice. And it is a beautiful thing to my eyes.
This is one of the most influential books of my life, both upon how I feel about humankind and about how I feel about photography (its importance, its beauty, and its power to tell a story, inspire, even heal).
Very important in HS when designing the year book.
Great little book from the 1955 MOMA Exhibition of the same name.
Loved reading the written inserts with the photographs and seeing the dated black and white photographs of a time long ago.
Things looked simpler then but probably hid a lot of misery and unhappiness, too.
One (1) star off because it was a bit too much Western perspective while bragging it was from 63 different countries.
Could have used a lot more input from photographers and people from the rest of the world.
Maybe it's time to do an update of this exhibit what with all the hatred and disharmony going on in the "family of man[kind]"?!?
An absolutely brilliant compilation of photographs Edward Steichen assembled for a MOMA exhibit that opened in January 1955, this selection runs the gamut of humanity. Childbirth, childhood, women, men, courtship and marriage, work and war, relaxation, music, dancing, almost every significant event of being human is presented with amazing photographs, 503 altogether, from 68 countries.One can sit for hours glued to these pages, studying the beauty and ugliness of man. It is an inspiration for all artists and a bible for our common man.Highly recommended for readers of all ages!
If I could give this book 100 stars, I would!! I have given this book several times as gifts to people I love (the first time I gave it as a gift was in 1963 to my favorite history teacher in high school, and I watched while he read it during a study class we had. And I saw the amazed smiles on his face as he went through it! It is a very, very fond memory). It is truly an absolutely amazing book taken in its totality. Not easy to describe, but SO worth reading and owning and re-reading!
Got hold of this beautiful first print copy from the library from 1955. Well read and recovered. The quality of the pages are extraordinary considering how they held up with time and many readers. I consider this THE book on both life and photography. I can look at it everyday of my life and never tire of it.What a brilliant exhibition it must have been!
This was an extremely satisfying reprieve for me after all the time I've spent reading on violence and hate. I feel really refreshed and uplifted after reading through this.
Kitabın Türkiye'den sadece 1 (yazı ile bir) kareye yer vermiş olması bir tür hayal kırıklığıdır.
Halbuki o dönem henüz genç bir fotografçı sayılacak Yıldız Moran Hanım, bir dolu fotografı ile birlikte Edward Steichen'e bir mektupla neler yapması gerektiğini ve fotografları hakkında ne düşündüğünü sormuştu.
(Bkz. Yıldız Moran Zamansız Fotoğraflar Sergisi) Daha farklı olması gerektiği minvalinde bir cevapla döndüğünü biliyoruz, fakat o dönem bu sergisi için Edward Steichen, bir şekilde Türkiye'den de Yıldız Hanımın fotograflarından yararlanabilirmiş, pekala.
Herneyse, bu kitabın tüm fotograf kitapları içinde galiba bir ilk, bir başlangıç noktası olduğunu da söylemek lazımdır.
Kitabı, bir grup yönetmenin 1962'de çektiği "L'amour à vingt ans" filminin OST'si ile birlikte okudum.
I was pointed to a landmark exhibit, (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fami...), and its resulting book, The Family of Man. While long out of print (though available here http://www.amazon.com/The-Family-Man-...), The Family of Man subtitled “The greatest photographic exhibition of all time – 503 pictures from 68 countries “in book form contains a lyrical prologue by Carl Sandburg and was curated and introduced by Edward Steichen.
The photos offer a striking snapshots of the human experience focusing on birth, love, and joy, but also touching war, privation, illness, and death.
Interested prospective readers and viewers may borrow this book from many libraries via WorldCat (http://www.worldcat.org) or consider an e-book download here http://mbnfchs.typepad.com/blog/2013/....
The real discovery for me in this groundbreaking photography exhibition, intended to represent humanity in all its mundane normality and splendor, is that it includes at least one work by Diane and Allan Arbus.
I knew that husband and wife were New York fashion photographers; I didn't know of their art photography.
(Allan Arbus, you may recall, portrayed Sidney Friedman, the humanistic military psychiatrist, in a recurring role on the M*A*S*H television series in the 1970s.)I'm sure a genuine art critic could find more to say about the selection of photographs included herein; suffice it to say that, to my amateur eye, it gets the job done.
There were some truly stunning and lovely pictures in this book - the only reason it didn't snatch the coveted 5 stars was that I'd read all sorts of critical essays discussing how its idea of the commonality of man is one of a distinctly American man (and a 1950s American at that!)Some of the layouts distressed me a little, too, and of course fifty years later a lot of the themes in the book seem entirely tired, but all this criticism doesn't change the fact that this show WAS just gorgeous and powerful.

This is not a literary book, it is a collection of photographs from around the world taken by people depicting their views on themselves or people and lives around them. Though there are few words to read, this book speaks volumes when you see a photo of a person's face and their emotion that fills the page, that is what tells the story, and you will find the beauty that is man...
This is really a picture book, so I feel funny saying I read it, but someone mentioned it and I took out my old copy and I was really glad I did. It's photographs of people all around the world, working and laughing and dancing and playing and grieving - everything people do everywhere. There's a few quotes interspersed within, but it's mostly pages and pages of photographs of people. Fun!
This was our coffee table book when I was a kid. I always enjoyed looking at it, although when I look through it now I notice many of the photos are not very sharp - maybe it's just the edition I have (or my eyes going with age). It makes a nice gift for people who enjoy but aren't really into photography.
The Family of Man is an excellent distillation of what portrait photography (and to some extent, all photography) is about. It's about the basic story of human life, we're born, we live, we work, we fall in love, we laugh, we sing, we struggle up until the end in our own way. It's a powerful message, and it couldn't have been told better.
We were given this photo essay book as a wedding gift from one of my dad's closest friends. The photos take you from birth to death depicting everything in between; play, dance, work, love, meals, etc. Photographers from around the world submitted their images so it is a collection of scenes showing what connects humans rather than what separates.
Incredibly broad stereotypes and generalizations about every culture possible, and a terribly curated exhibition. BUT, an important read art historically. I just found my copy at the St. Vincent de Paul thrift store!
This coffee table photo book is full of inspiring photos of people around the world, portraying emotions that all humans feel. I love flipping through it, and I am particularly inspired by the photos depicting children. A great book.
This book was in my family for many years and I finally gave it to my nephew. Of course I was fascinated by the one picture of a man and a woman having sexual intercourse(presumably). Date read is approximate.
Such a mighty undertaking and a powerful message for the time. Certainly outdated in some points, but moving nonetheless. I wish I had a color version. Sandburg's prologue seems a bit bombastic and not very informational, but if I read something else he wrote, maybe I'd get it.
