https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/353342.The_Cross_of_Lead
AVI2.0 Review: With warnings, gender changes, and a post script!I just dawned on me that the stupid plot revealing subtitle is there because Avi means for this book to be the start of a series, and a quick check shows that there is a sequel.
But if you have read this review, let me offer you some words of encouragement that I wish had been offered to me: if your teacher loves this book and you do not love it, don't think there is anything wrong with you.
i didnt hate it as much as greg did, but i know what he means about it being a little flat. i probably would have enjoyed this as maybe an 8 year old. is that too old - i dont remember what i was doing at 8, except i had unfortunate teeth. im not going to run right out and get the sequel to this or anything, but its a perfectly serviceable medieval tale of secret origins and poverty and swords.
My sixth grade son made me read "Crispin: The Cross of Lead".
He's a really advanced reader, but it's hard to get him involved in books.
He'd rather play World of Warcraft or play his guitar.
Crispin is the bastard son of an outcast peasant woman who never shows him any affection.
Fortunately, the priest gives Crispin his mother's lead cross before he is murdered.
He encounters a man who takes him under his wing and teaches him about life and the world.
I thought this was an excellent book.
I'm glad my son read it, but I did have to do some explaining.
Avi's historical fiction is exceptional -- even the metaphor and imagery in the book employ phrases consistent with the times.
However, I got the feeling that some of Crispin's actions were not consistent with his character, and that Avi had him do them just to advance the plot.
For example, Crispin is painted as an ignorant kid who learns about his place in English society as he joins up with a large, red-bearded jester named Bear.
Everything I have learned about Crispin makes me believe he would follow Bear's orders.
Those jarring moments happened frequently enough that I got annoyed and couldn't give this book more than 3 stars.
He comes upon Bear, a jester who secretly works to bring a worker’s revolution to England, and together they travel to the “big city” of Wexly, where to Crispin’s horror the steward has followed them, and both their lives are in danger.This is an interesting choice for the Newbery – Avi strives hard to recreate the historical milieu in which Crispin lives, so first and foremost, the prose is absolutely drenched in medieval Christian thought.
Then, just so everyone has something to be offended about, Avi has Crispin, if not explicitly reject this mindset, at least question it; he stops praying and pledges to make his own decisions, and later uses the binding power of an unwilling vow as a tool for his own ends.
**6.5/10**
صلیب صربی رو همین چند سال پیش خوندم...
فکر میکنم چهار سال پیش...
در مقایسه با کتاب های فانتزی ای که اون موقع میخوندم...
قصه ساده تری داشت...
در نتیجه اون موقع برام اونقدری جاذبه نداشت...
فقط همینقدر بود که یه شب تا صبح نخوابیدم که تموم بشه...قصه خوبی داشت...
درگیر کننده بود و وادارت میکرد تا ته کتاب رو بری...قصه با هیچ کدوم از تصورات اولیه من همخوانی نداشت...
و یادمه هیچ کدوم از حدس هام درست نبودن...
حتی یادمه یه جاهایی از روند قصه حیرت میکردم...
تا همین الان نمیدونستم ادامه ای هم داره...
Loved it! Set in the 14th Century. Historical fiction at it's best. Great bits of wisdom. "Music is the tongue of souls" "The only difference between a dead fool and a live one is the dead one has a deeper grave". He is a great author and I am looking forward to reading more of his work. Our children could learn many lessons from this book as can we. I started this book yesterday afternoon while I was waiting at the DMV and finished it this morning. Could not put it down, and I will think about it for days.
It’s got the medieval setting, some royal scandals, some death, some fight scenes, some characters who can’t be trusted, some orphaned kids who need more parental supervision.
He starts the book as “Asta’s Son.” He doesn’t know his real name, and he can’t read or write.
And why do so many important people suddenly want Crispin dead?I think I would have liked this book way back when I was part of its target audience.
It’s only a few pages, but I know that feels like an eternity to a kid.)I like that this book doesn’t ignore religion.
His priest, the one person he trusts, is murdered after trying to help and telling Asta’s Son his real name (which is Crispin).
Crispin’s world has turned upside-down.After days trying to survive on his own in the woods, Crispin encounters a huge man in an abandoned church named Bear.
Of course, it doesn’t help that they keep running into the man who declared Crispin a “wolf’s head” either—even in the huge town of Great Wexly.This book is a great, fast-paced read.
Avi's books seem to be span all genres, the only thing that unites them is the intended audience, tweens.
Crispin is somewhere in the range of fantasy and historical fiction, taking place in medieval Europe around the time of the plague.
The story cover's Crispin's quest to learn the truth behind his birth after his mother's death.While the book had it's moments, it didn't capture my imagination like Who Stole the Wizard of Oz?
The book borrows heavily on the fantasy genre conventions and relies too much on Crispin's emotional state to carry the plot.

One of my good friends recommended this series to me and I was in the mood for a change of pace in what I was reading so I gave it a try. I thought this was well done middle grade historical fiction. I've read several other books by Avi and enjoy his writing. I felt like I learned a few things and was entertained along the way. Overall a good book I would recommend to those who enjoy Historical Fiction.Content: Clean
Great example of historical fiction.
However, this fact makes the story a bit more obscure for children.
Set in the 1600's where the general population was almost considered the property of the landowner and at their mercy.
If the Lord of the Manor is an unkind or even brutal man this made life very difficult and sometimes down right dangerous.This story is one that should be discussed with an adult after reading to understand the historical significance.Not really suitable for young children.
I'd say 5th grade or higher.I did like the character of Crispen as narrator, it added some honesty and innocence to an otherwise some-what brutal world.
I think I would have liked this a lot as a middle-grade reader. It was still all right - I liked the time setting and the characters.
A 2003 Newbery Medal winner that is set in fourteenth-century England and is about an orphaned who is falsely accused of several crimes. This is first book in a trilogy about Crispin. Avi is a skillful storyteller and does a great job at capturing this time period.
In the town, Crispin meets a juggler known as Bear.
But Crispin finds out that his pursuers are still looking for him.
His pursuers don't like that which is why they want to kill him.
In the end, his pursuers die and Crispin and Bear are free.
I liked the theme of identity and the plot was interesting.I would recommend this book to a lot of people, both peers and adults.
This book would appeal to people who like history and realistic fiction.
(The end has some blood when the pursuers die, but nothing serious) Overall, it was a good book and a fun read.
Another chapter about eating lunch.
The plot surprises were not surprising.I wondered if the book was acclaimed for its wealth of vocabulary words to look up, such as mazer (a drinking bowl), wattle and daub (the building technique) and the various liturgical hours (fixed times of prayer).
I know it is an important facet of the characters, but I am reminded of George Carlin's list of people he could do without, which includes "anyone who mentions Jesus more than three hundred times in a two-minute conversation."There is one historical character in the book (John Ball), so I wonder if the series is meant to describe the Peasants' Revolt from a child's point of view?
The Cross of Lead is a very interesting book.
I liked it, but I don’t know if it is for everyone.
His arch-enemy is John Aycliffe, who for some reason does not like Crispin.
There is some mild violence of Father Quinel having is throat slashed while helping Crispin escape, but nothing to graphic.
I am sure for a teen reader this book will be interesting and fascinating.
For the older reader who might be more familiar with the plot line, it might get a little boring.
It is a great book for about a 5th grader, give or take a grade level.
With a price on his head, Crispin is forced to flee the only home that he has ever known.
While the world can be a scary place, Crispin learns just how much he doesn't know and that there is just as much good as bad.I read this as part of the Newberry challenge and thought it was a great book.
Crispin is quickly befriended by a character known as Bear who is loud, corpulent, and a father figure.
He takes Crispin under his wing and begins to teach him.Avi did an excellent job with this book!
This was fast-paced and full of historical details; I found myself reading several chapters at a time and was really interested by it.
Really liked this book!! Amazing story and good lesson.
Children's Book Club selection. The book is recommended for 2nd Grade plus. Conservatively I would say it's more like 5th grade plus. The plot, while predictable for adults, for children is suspenseful and appropriate. I was reading this to a vast age group and had to eliminate some of the gorey and detailed descriptions, as well as mature language that I wasn't prepared to explain (" bastard" or "slit throat"). As an adult I enjoyed the historical fiction.
'Crispin: The Cross of Lead' written by Avi is a historical fiction book that was published in June 2002.
In my opinion, it was a very good book because of the plot line and the character's personalities that tied in with the plot line and made the book seem more real to the reader.
In this book, Crispin, the main character, is a 13 year-old very shut off farm boy living in a poor town (Stromford).
With trouble with the village's steward, John Aycliff, a despicable man, Crispin's life is in danger.
After meeting a mysterious man with the name "Bear", his life took a turn.
'Crispin: The Cross of Lead' is not a very predictable book.
Avi did research into the time period and one of the characters, John Ball, is based on a real person.
At the end of the book Avi explains his interest in the period began in college when he read about the Peasants' Rebellion and a series of lectures he attended on the late Middle Ages.
Avi's end of the book interview explains that he is seeking to write a story that is a prelude to (and ultimately window into) the reformation of a culture and how difficult change is.
The book is certainly in line with Avi's stated philosophy of change, but the authenticity, particularly at the end, is somewhat compromised.
While I would’ve liked to see how the story might’ve changed if the main character were female, Crispin’s story was both heart-breaking and incredibly empowering, showing that it’s possible to pull oneself out of even the most terrible of situations and find true joy.What begins for Crispin as a fight for his life soon leads him to the best thing that has ever happened to him: meeting a true father figure in Bear.
This is our next book for the kids book club. Ellie has started reading it and Jacob will start when he is finished with Ant Man..krb 4/20/17Ellie has finished the book. Jacob is still working on it (but way more into reading Star Wars again at the moment). I will be starting this book soon..krb 5/16/17Mom finished the book and thoroughly enjoyed the suspense, the good, the bad and it made me want to read more from Avi...krb 5/28/17
Really interesting story about a boy who is a serf, who is blamed by his Steward for crimes he did not commit -- apparently as an excuse to legally kill him.
The man, who at first doubts the boys story, but when it become clear that Steward really is going to extreme lengths to hunt down and kill the boy the entertainer starts to question why.
What unravels is something of a critical commentary of the abuses of power that extreme hierarchy allows.The book isn't Historically correct.
The not so hidden curriculum of this book is really about teaching why our system of government (democracy) is superior.
Crispin is a devout Christian at the beginning of the book.
Religion is mentioned on almost every page which seems overdone, even given the time period this is meant to take place in.I do like that throughout the book Avi talks about the idea of owning your decisions, not just leaving things up to God.
13 "Time was the great millstone, which ground us to dust like kerneled wheat."pg.
132 "Crispin, there's an old soldier's saying: 'If you have to choose between alertness and worry, being alert will bring you more days of life'."pg.
Crispin was born a peasant in medieval England.
The book opens with his mother dying and having never known his father, Crispin is an orphan at thirteen years old.
Crispin learns about the world through his new friend Bear, a juggler.
Crispin's past and the turmoil in England at the time are about to collide and come to a head.
I read this book with my sixth grade class while they simultaneously learned about medieval history.
They enjoyed learning about the language and culture of this time period, along with the adventure and mystery of the story itself.
