https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854252.Little_House_on_Rocky_Ridge
I will admit that it's probably been over 20 years since I've even touched the "Little House on the Prairie" series by Laura Ingalls Wilder.
So I was surprised to realize that there are many, many more books that continue that beloved series beyond the original dozen.
Also the beginning starts with just enough of a transition to realize that we're moving on with the timeline in this beloved series.
A true gift for any reader at any age & definitely a book worth coming back to throughout the years for anyone who is a fan of the original works.
This series chronicles Rose's life, Laura's daughter.Laura continues to call Almanzo "Manly" in this book (and I'm guessing the rest of the series) but this doesn't drive me as crazy as it did in These First Four Years.
I'm getting used to it, I guess.Once again, I liked this book more than I was expecting to.
I think I'll continue to read the rest of the series, but I think I'll slow down the pace to a book every few months or so - we'll see.Rose is a bit annoying, and Laura as the mother isn't as amazing as her Ma is.
Fortunately, this is one of the rare cases when a sequel is worth reading.Little House on Rocky Ridge is the first volume in the series that chronicles the childhood of Rose Wilder Lane, Laura Ingalls Wilder's daughter.
It picks up after the Little House series with the Wilder family leaving DeSmet, South Dakota in the middle of a drought and heading down to Missouri to try and build a better life there.
In another sense, it's a new chapter in Laura's life, even though the focus of the book is on Rose's experiences and perceptions.
Ya know, I was sort of prepared for a letdown after the Laura years (forgetting the First Four Years, obviously) But guys, this was amazing! It's like MacBride basically got Laura's voice! It was detailed, but not boring! I felt most of Rose's emotions! And I loved all the stories. You could probably relate to most of them, just kids being kids. And then when they got their house and it was all set up! I love how Laura and Manly continue to make things work, even in hard times. This is gonna be a good series!
I admit I was skeptical at first, but Roger Lea MacBride did such a good job with this series.
I had re-read the Little House series so many times so it was such a joy that finally - there were more!
The Little House books had such a big impact on my life growing up.
I know I will re-read these, too, someday.I've tried another series in the Little House saga, but so far, it hasn't worked as well for me.
I think maybe because MacBride knew Rose and you could tell he knew Rose.
A continuation from the classic Little House on the Prairie Series, this book is written by a different author but still keeps within the spirit of Laura Ingalls Wilder as it tells the story of Laura's daughter, Rose.
The book moved slowly at times, but it was a great book to read aloud to my children at bedtime because each chapter could stand alone as an episode or story while still weaving into the overall story of Rose and her family.
My boys are already begging to read more Little House on the Prairie books now that we have finished this one...
The feels.I remember reading the original series when I was little and absolutely loving it, and I was all over this too. It was absolutely adorable, and I definitely recommend this for fans of the original series.
I can still remember both the excitement with which I greeted this on publication, and the corresponding disappointment on the first read, and that's why this book is now a discardathon re-read.
But on the other hand, it's quite simply not as good as Laura's own books and I can't love it in the way I love the original stories.
I was never tempted to buy, or even to read, the other sequels and prequels - instead I found copies of Laura's own writings (Letters from Home) and factual books about Laura's life.So although this is worth a read, because Laura and Manly's characters and love for each other do really come across strongly, it's not a keeper.
The "Little House: The Rocky Ridge Years" (which is now called The Rose Years) series is a continuation of the Little House series.
It's written from the point of view of Rose--Laura Ingalls Wilder's daughter--by Rose's adopted grandson.
He keeps the writing style similar to that of Wilder, so the continuation seems fairly natural.
I was obsessed with the Little House books as a child, so my parents bought me these books so I could keep reading!
Rose is just as loveable of a main character as Laura was, as she travels with her parents from South Dakota to Missouri to establish a new life.
I didn't care for this book as much as the original Little House stories.
There wasn't much tension or strife - though I realize this is a book for kids, I think everything they went through could have been a lot harder.
I was disappointed at how much Laura's mannerisms and attitudes resembled her mother's.
I never cared much for Caroline and admired Laura's free spirit.
She really did grow up and that makes me kind of sad.
Also, Rose was constantly shouting or screaming when all she needed to do was talk, but the adults didn't really address it.
I found it to be a little annoying and unrealistic.
I hadn't read anything beyond the life of Laura Ingalls Wilder than her own series, so when I picked up this book, I worried that it wouldn't be very much like the Laura books in style or content.
I liked seeing Laura and Almanzo through the eyes of their daughter Rose.
I liked the relationships she made with other people on the journey, and the way she looked at the world.More than that, I appreciated seeing the next chapters in the Wilder life.
This was definitely a fun book to read with my daughter for school.
I adored the original series of Little House books by Laura Ingalls Wilder, and they do stand up upon adult rereading.
I was startled and excited to find there were additional series about Rose, Laura's daughter, as well as her mother and a couple one off books about her grandmother and great grandmother.
The wonder of the little house books was how every bit of food and clothing was accounted for--where it came from, how it was prepared, why it was done that way.
I have a history with the Little House books, and I still love them even after all this time.I owe those books lots, they kickstarted my reading, way back in kidnergarten. I have never been without a book ever since.There's nothing like the Little House books to read with the rain pattering on your roof and a nice mug of steaming tea in your hand. Which happens to be what I am doing right now.
Julianna's review: I liked the wagon parts when they were traveling. I didn't like the parts where they were throwing grapes around at each other. My review: Definitely not quite the caliber of the Little House books, but definitely interesting as we got to see more about the lives of our favorite characters from the Little House books. I also like that these books seem aimed at younger listeners, though this particular book was really long.
Reading this book brought me back to my childhood dreams of wishing I could have lived in the "pioneer times." Some of that was kind of shattered later on in this book because of one aspect about it. If you have arachnophobia, don't read this book unless you want some "exposure therapy". I almost didn't want to finish it once I came to that. :P But it was worth it to finish, it was a good book.
I am a huge fan of the Laura Ingalls stories!!! The tried and true Laura stories are by far my favorites, but when I came across stories of her great-grandmother all the way down to her daughter, I was thrilled. Though I have to admit, the "Rose Years" are my least favorite.
I love this book sooooo much I'm so going to read the whole series
For example, here we're told Rose found the $100 bill, but in OTWH, it seemed like Laura had found it.Therefore, it's a perfect mix of fact and fiction, as Laura's books were.We do learn other info:- Mary was going to teach Rose Braille- South Dakota became a state by the time of the move- The dry weather and droughts forced the Wilders to live in town.
The mom (Laura tells tells Rose that the big surprise is going on a long trip to Missouri.
While they have set up camp Rose gets a surprise from her papa to go riding with Paul and George.
Then after a long journey they make it to Missouri.
When they are in Missouri It had rained and it had been one of the first times it rained during their journey.
I think this book is good because it tells of a little girls perspective of traveling to a new place a long time ago.
I didn't think I would enjoy this book as much as the original Little House series, but I thoroughly enjoy it.
I enjoy seeing Laura and Almanzo again and seeing their journey from South Dakota to Missouri.
Seeing another wagon trail journey remind me of Laura's childhood.
I love how vivid the description of their cozy log house is.
I love the description of food as always, and I love the small details woven throughout the book about life in turn of the century US.
These books always made me feel so cozy.
I just recently re-read the whole Little House book series and LOVED them. I didn't even think about reading books which weren't written by Laura Ingalls Wilder, but this book worked for a game I'm playing. This book picks up Laura's story when she, her husband and her daughter Rose decide to move to Missouri and start a new life. I don't know what it is about these books, but I love them, and I guess I will be continuing this series, of which there are 8 more books.
I could not believe how similar the writing and the feel of the book was to Laura's writing style. It was wonderful and it was like a whole new world to discover this wonderful series. I can't wait to read the next one. The author stated that he knew Rose very well and was her only 'heir' although I didn't think she had any children but I could be totally wrong on that. I'll be curious to find out more about the author.
These are not as good as the original Little House books which were written in first person by Laura Ingalls Wilder herself. However, all indications are that these books are faithful to the life of Laura's family. They were written as a continuation of the story of Laura's life beyond the original series.
This book follows Laura Ingalls Wilder after she is married, has a child and the three of them move to Missouri from the Dakotas. If you enjoyed the Little House books, you'll enjoy this. There are a couple more in the series also.
An amazing read. I read all of the laura ingalls books when she was on her journey and now i get to be apart of Roses journey. :) makes me want to go back and reread my llittle house on the prairie books.
Bleh. I don't think I'll read any more of these.
We continued on to here from the Laura's series but it pittered out for my children. Perhaps they will pick it up on their own later in life!
A wonderful continuation of the Little House series with a new beginning in Missouri.
Et dejligt gensyn med en elsket bog fra min barndom. Sjovt som man læser anderledes som voksen, end som man gjorde som barn. Ser virkelig frem til at komme i gang med anden del af serien ❤
I really enjoyed this. Looking forward to the rest of the series.
