https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/926694.The_Family_Reunion
We were having a walk at Anglesey Abbey earlier this year, and a couple of lines from this play popped into my head: The aconite under the snow And the snowdrop crying for a moment in the wood Maybe they'll encourage you to read it.
النفس الشعري الذي كتب به أليوت المسرحية كان فاتنا جدا ممتلئة بالحكمة والفلسفة والشعور بالذنب المسرحية تحوي دراسة رائعة في المقدمة وكذلك تعريفا مطولا للشخصيات في نهايتها قضيت وقتا ممتعا جدا مع أليوت
since it was not a popular eliot play, i thought before reading that it would be an underwhelming experience.
and, this play is one of those marks of his genius penmanship!
this play is deeply philosophical, and also existentialist in a very unique nature.
mind-blowing dramatic content culminates my reading into the philosophical enlightenment.
recently, i am trying to read more and more philosophical texts but exam month is near.
reading this play quenched my philosophical thirst a little bit.
thanks to mr.
global literature should be thankful to him.
one of the greatest plays i have read after a long time.
In this play, he writes in blank verse the story of a detective, and his journey from guilt to redemption.
You do not knowThe noxious smell untraceable in the drains,Inaccessible to the plumbers, that has its hour of the night; you do not knowThe unspoken voice of sorrow in the ancient bedroomAt three o’clock in the morning.
I am the old houseWith the noxious smell and the sorrow before morning,In which all past is present, all degradationIs unredeemable.
The Chorus at the end says, “We understand the ordinary business of living, / We know how to work the machine,”Eventually, his guilt allows him to see his redemption.See my other reviews here!
لم يترك لنا محمد حبيب غير إعطاء الرأي ان اردت معرفة سبب بقائي في ويش وود فهو ببساطة، لابقيها حية، لأحمي العائلة من الاندثار، لابقيهما معا و ليبقياني حيه، وأحيا لاحتفظ بهما انتم لا تدركون كم انتم عجائز و سيأتيكم الموت مثل مفاجأة لطيفة مثل رجفة سريعة في غرفة خاويةدعت إيمي في يوم ميلادها أخواتها و اخوة زوجها و أبناءها، ليلتم شمل العائلة في هذا الاجتماع ولكن شاءت الأقدار أن لا يصل من أبنائها سوى هاري الذي عاد في حالة روحية تخنقه اشباح ضميره و يطارد الإثم، يتدرج الموضوع من حالة هاري إلى باقي الشخصيات وحوارهم الداخلي الذي يعكس افكارهم و ملاحظاتهم في المسرحية عمق فلسفي هذا اكيد إلا أني شعرت بأن هاري مجنون من شدة المبالغه في رأيي و الحقيقة ليس رأيي وحدي بل هو رأي باقي الشخصيات وارجع المترجم سبب هذه النظره الواصفه لهاري بالجنون لإنعدام فهمنا لحالته...
The purpose of a"play" is to entertain, whether read or performed. "The Family Reunion" did NOT entertain me at all, nor did it instruct. I literally struggled thought the cryptic blank verse, wondering what it means or what the characters' intentions are. There is barely a story, let alone a message, and the end is abrupt and strange. I was glad when it was over, to be honest. How this is considered a classic is beyond me.
مسرحية جيدة لشاعر طالما وددت التعرف عليه ، اللغة شاعرية وفاتنة والحوار بين الشخصيات عميق ومؤثر ، يعيبها وجود الهوامش مجتمعة في اخرها وهذا شئ لا احبه وافضل ان تكون هوامش كل صفحة موجودة في اسفلها
I don't know how to rate this book since I don't feel like I have understood it.However, it is very poetic and absurd, as it would be expected of T.S. Elliot.
ت. س. اليوت | هذه أوّل تجربة، دافع كبير للبحث عن بقية أعماله واقتناءها.مسرحية حافلة بالكثير.يلزمني العودة لقراءتها مجددًا، مع الهامش والمقدمة.لأنها تستحق أن يحيط بها القارىء أكثر مما تمنحه له القراءة الأولى.
I am not certain what I think of Eliot's theology or his drama -- I cannot imagine this succeeding upon a stage -- but I do love his poetry.
أول قراءات عام 2018 و هي بداية غريبة، لإن المسرحية غريبة فعلاً و مليانة رمزيات فمحتاج أقرأها تاني بعد فترة.
The Family Reunion by T.S. Eliot is a two act play. It is taking place in modern England but Eliot used two features of old Greek theater; a chorus to comment on the event every now and then and the the Eumenides (the avenging souls) from the Oresteia. This is one of the very few works which can be considered a comment by Eliot on his complicated relationship to his first wife.
We like to appear in newspapers so long as we are in the right column.
We like to be thought well of by others so that we may think well of ourselves.
246Harry: "All these years I'd been longing to get back because I thought I never should.
I thought it was a place where life was substantial and simplified -- but the simplification took place in my memory, I think." p.
252Warburton: "We're all of us ill in one way or another: we call it health when we find no symptom of illness.
The mother, Amy, as the head of the family has, in her attempt to put off consequences, to maintain sameness, achieved nothing but spreading her own pain and suffering.
The various attempts to repress and ignore emotion, to resist the tide, are ultimately seen, by the wiser characters, a a destructive poison that rots the family tree at the root.
But as the spring comes, bringing with it the pain of (re)emergence, the scandals that were buried and frozen over in the winter re-emerge, are reborn and find new life for both good and bad.
The verse is beautiful, especially the conversation between Harry and Mary about the coming spring.

The library copy I read has a sticker from a store on Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood (Samuel French, Inc.).
As I read, I kept imagining what Hollywood would do with a script like this.
Maybe Hollywood of the 1930s would have attempted it, but I have a hard time believing that they would have attempted the Greek chorus or the Eumenides.The language and poetry is beautiful, but the story ends too abruptly.
And Agatha is a wonderful character, but Eliot doesn't let you realize that she's a wonderful character until the very end, so you barely get to enjoy her.
I used to think that Attic Drama referred to a group of very early Greek plays that were never meant to be staged but only read in the attic.
(I know: Stupid!) Well, I'd classify T.S. Eliot's verse play "The Family Reunion" in that misnomer.
Which is another way of saying that while I don't find Eliot's update of classical tragedy particularly stageworthy or even dramatically sound, I would recommend reading it to anyone open to Eliot's deep meditations on responsibility, fate and family.
There are many passages and exchanges that sparkle even as you have to admit that overall this one has little spectacle to deliver.
Not surprisingly in the least, Eliot's play "The Family Reunion" is fantastic. Eliot strikes a perfect balance of narrative and lucid prose with powerful insights into the nature of family life. In many ways, I related very much to Harry; his feelings about the circumstances he found himself in, his wanderlust and need to make his own way regardless of the expectations of others. When Eliot's characters break into poetry, the lines are effective and reflective. A wonderful play I will likely read many times.
In his pinnacle as a dramatist, Eliot creates a story that has to be absolutely stunning onstage. Wrenching the Furies from their Greek context and putting them into the life of an English peer is astonishing in its own right, but that he then does a Chestertonian reversal of roles and allows his main character to find salvation rather than damnation in them? Goodness gracious. This is a strong play, laced with allusions to his works and those of others. Very much worth your time.
I love T.S Eliot's plays. His writing is as usual, beautiful and poetic. The characters are mysterious even after you finish this book. Short but full of suspense, this family reunion will be like no other. I can't wait to read more of this author's work. His talent is shown in every word he writes, and his thoughts about life and death pour out of every character like a waterfall. I highly recommend it.
My first time reading a play, although I took one as a course before but I had never intended to read it. I actually thought it was a collection of poems , but when I got home I discovered it's not and rather it's a play.I loved the conversations among the characters and everyone of them has a point. it was vividly written, so you can finish it within two days the most.
uncrossing the bones, laying them straight...it was all rather confusing, and effective at confusing me. Far from getting annoyed, I was intrigued and reread passages for clarity, though much still stays opaque.
Something like a Wes Anderson film. Blends poetry with a sort of realism, in the same way that the tragic central character moves from the superficial realm of his family life to one of tortured introspection.
I don't think it would work as a play (don't think so...but I wouldn't mind watching a good performance) but as a piece of plain-spoken poetry it does and it seems to me to be almost a dry run at many of the ideas put forth in Eliot's Four Quartets.
I expected a play. But then again, who doesn't love a handful of Eliot's most hauntingly beautiful lines of poetry?
The best play I have ever read.
I am trying to recommend this play to all my Goodreads friends but for some reason I am not able to do this. Please read this play if you get a chance!
لم تُعجبني الفكرة ولا الحوارات اللغة كانت شعرية، وذلك ليس بغريب على المؤلف
