https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9541.The_Shadow_of_the_Sun
So I sit down next to Ryszard and I listen to his chronicle.With unsentimental approach and spartan phraseology unravelled in a collage of disorderly snapshots spread out in time and assorted geography, Kapuscinski evokes the Africa that runs through his veins, beats in his heart and brims over his memory, avoiding clichés and showing the hidden face of this mistreated continent.
One needs to live all that in order to entirely grasp the glory and the consequence of a place like Africa.Kapuscinski awakens from his reverie.
Sitting under the shelter of this acacia tree, I have listened to this man’s soul and I have felt  The Spirit of Africa.
“The population of Africa was a gigantic, matted, crisscrossing web, spanning the entire continent and in constant motion, endlessly undulating, bunching up in one place and spreading out in another, a rich fabric, a colourful arras.” - Ryszard Kapuscinski, The Shadow of the SunA man I’d unfortunately never heard of wrote one of the most engaging historical reflections I've’ve ever read.
Kapuscinski was definitely an observer and tried to understand things that were “foreign” to him, things such as the African concept of time , which I found very interesting and enlightening.“The European and the African have an entirely different concept of time.
This is insightful prose written by a Polish journalist who spent years traveling around Africa (beginning in the 1950s).
It is a collection of essays that follow Kapuscinski's time spent in Africa; during coups, wars, racial tensions, hunger, starvation, sickness, and more.
Though I didn't love the parts of the book that seemed highly dramatized, what I really liked about this is that Kapuscinski gets into the experience, living it and detailing it.
He talks about the racial tensions of that time, the distinctive culture of each country in Africa, the political climate, the people, the food, the terrain, and his own vulnerabilities.
Toàn cuốn sách là những mảng đối lập châu Phi giàu có trù phú, nhưng cũng kiệt quệ; thuộc dạng "cùng đinh rồi" mà vẫn cứ bị vắt kiệt; một lục địa đói khổ nhưng sao vũ khí đẻ ở đâu mà lắm thế; ở nơi nước là thứ quý giá nhất nhưng vẫn thấy hàng km chai nhựa xếp hàng đợi nước trong trật tự v..v..Mình thích cái tên Gỗ mun này, có cái gì đó vừa quý giá, vừa bền bỉ, vừa dẻo dai, vừa đẹp đẽ, tôn quý.
Và đọc xong mới hiểu rõ tại sao Ryszard Kapuściński lại được ngưỡng mộ và tôn vinh đến như vậy (chỉ cần tưởng tượng 1 phần nhỏ của hành trình ông đã trải qua để viết Gỗ mun)Một việc xấu hổ nữa là mình đọc cuốn này trên vnthuquan, lỗi typo khá nhiều.
Persuasive and beautifully crafted, that review points out numerous errors of fact within Shadow of the Sun -- errors that Ryle argues betray Kapuściński to be more mythmaker than journalist.
When Kapuściński tells us, for instance, that the only bookstore in all of Ethiopia is on the university campus there -- and that it was completely empty when he visited it -- and that this is the situation in most of Africa, it makes a profound impression me.
Una maravilla de libro, escrito de manera muy sencilla y agil.
En ningún momento es aburrido y he aprendido un montón.
Muy interesante, de esos libros en los cuales a medida que vas leyendo no paras de consultar datos en internet.También te cuenta episodios muy duros: Las hambrunas de Etiopia, el genocidio de Ruanda, los señores de la guerra de Liberia, los niños soldado, la dureza de la vida en el desierto....Te ayuda a conocer el continente africano y a sus gentes, sus conflictos, sus creencias, etc...
Nó là một cuốn sách của một con người ở bên trong châu Phi, sống cùng châu Phi, chứng kiến nhiều, rất nhiều cái chết châu Phi, và trong nhiều dịp khác nhau đã rất gần với cái chết châu Phi: cái chết có thể đến từ một con rắn hổ mang đại tướng nằm ngay dưới tấm phản, có thể đến từ lũ muỗi khát máu chẳng kém những tay độc tài vốn không phải là hiếm ở châu Phi, có thể đến từ các căn bệnh quái ác của xứ sở này như sốt rét não hay sốt buồn ngủ, có thể đến từ cái nóng kinh hoàng, mà cũng có thể đến từ một họng súng vu vơ nào đấy, mà súng ở châu Phi thì có nhiều và có sẵn, có khi còn dễ tìm hơn cả lương thực hay nước uống.
What he lacked in funds he made up in ingenuity and a willingness to share in the lives of Africans with the result that he got the big stories (a coup in Zanzibar is the subject of one piece) but also the stories about the little people.
Kapuściński's scope was broader, from the latest war or coup to serious attempts to characterize African people.
That essay ends when Kapuściński is allowed to travel up country and meet the tribal people (which the ruling Americo-Liberians called aboriginals when I visited in 1965).
Salman Rushdie talks somewhere about novels enabling us to meet and hear and encounter people from whom we would normally flee, this journalist does exactly the same thing.Across this book you journey through about 50 years and he touches down in various places and times.
Omenka's voice was always trembling with emotion, and with tears in his eyes he would swear his everlasting devotion and fidelity 'This humour might seem when taken out of context to be a belitling or criticizing of the driver but within the framework of Kapuscinski's admiration for Africa and its peoples it does not read like that.
La mia patria è dove piove Si tratta di un viaggio nelle terre africane più lontane e inospitali. Un viaggio iniziato nel 1958 e durato quarant'anni, attraverso moti di indipendenze e guerre fratricide, genocidi e lotte per il potere. Un viaggio tra la gente, per conoscere, capire, condividere. Con rispetto, col desiderio puro di informarsi, partecipare, descrivere, sempre in modo semplice e obiettivo; senza enfasi né polemiche, senza autocelebrazione né opportunismo; con curiosità e il desider
Corrispondente della stampa polacca, con limitati mezzi economici, ma con la passione del vero Giornalista, Ryszard Kapuściński, riesce a illuminare con la lanterna della scrittura, in questo appassionante reportage, i luoghi più bui e remoti dell'Africa Centrale, quelli che comunemente si confondono in un insieme unico, permettendo la distinzione dei singoli pezzi, dei singoli stati, delle diverse realtà, delle diverse problematiche (l'essenza dell'Africa sta nella sua sconfinata varietà).Dà storia a un popolo senza memoria: non rimangono documenti, nessuno scrive memoriali (qui la storia è ciò che si ricorda; il prima non esiste).Dà tempo a chi non conosce scadenze (gli Africani intendono il tempo in modo flessibile, aperto, elastico, soggettivo; sparisce ogni volta che l'uomo sospende la propria azione).Dà "luogo" a chi non conosce confini (non esiste il concetto di spazio separato, differenziato, diviso; in tutto il villaggio non c'è una siepe, una staccionata, un recinto, una rete, un fossato o un confine [...] Questi uomini non si sentono legati al luogo dove si trovano; se ne vanno in quattro e quattr'otto senza lasciare traccia:[...] l'Africano è sempre stato un uomo in cammino).
I gave that five stars, and reading that book convinced me to buy more of this authors work, including this book, which I have finally made time for from my shelf.This is probably Kapuscinski's best known book, and is his highest rated book on GR.
Un viaje a las venas de África, relatos de sitios casi vírgenes y culturas apenas en contacto con la civilización moderna.. testigo vivencial en primer persona de la descolonización y tiranía local de esos tiempos. Solo como el gran maestro puede redactar. Se mencionan miles de tribus exterminadas, se presenta Africa como un continente politico que sus pueblos desconocen tales fronteras. Cada tribu con idioma y costumbres muy distintas. Una manera profunda de entender el continente de fines de los cincuentas a principios de los noventas. Excelente material informativo.
Their life is endless toil, a torment they endure with astonishing patience and good humor.‘This is therefore not a book about Africa, but rather about some people from there –about encounters with them, and time spent together.’From Ghana to Guinea, Angola to Addis Abababa, he observed, analysed and wrote.
This has been an important book for me to read, as I really know very little of Africa, apart from the outlines of its history and geography, and the wars, famines and violence that fill our news services.
Shifting seamlessly from vignettes of daily life to grand excursions into Africa's turbulent political past, Kapuscinski zig-zags across vast expanses of scorching desert and lush greenery in this masterful piece of journalistic travel writing.
The lioness stalking in the tall grasses is as riveting as the utterly fascinating character study of Idi Amin.The first chapter was studded with generalisations about Africa and Africans that made my inner anthropologist cringe, and is the main reason I am docking this book one star.
If you have ever been to Africa, this book will transport you back there.
Last fall I read Travels with Herodotus by Ryszard Kapuscinski, the Polish journalist.
So it was with great anticipation that I looked forward to reading earlier works by Ryszard Kapuscinski.
The looseness of the content is linked together through recurring themes such as the Sun of the title, the importance of minerals and elements, such as water in the Sahara, and the pervasive violence of both nature and man.
A couple of minor criticisms: the chronology in the book was uncertain at times, infuriatingly so; and, the book would have benefitted from a map for reference as the episodic quality of the content led the reader to and fro across the continent.
In realtà, a parte la sua denominazione geografica, l'Africa non esiste.”"L'Africa è tutta in movimento, in cammino, dispersa: gli uni scappano dalla guerra, altri dalla siccità, altri ancora dalla carestia.
Scappano, vagano, si perdono.”“Dalla nascita fino alla morte l'africano è sempre al fronte, sempre in lotta contro la natura ostile del suo continente; e il fatto stesso di esistere, di sopravvivere, è già di per sé la sua vittoria più grande.”N.B.: Questo grande libro-reportage di Ryszard Kapuściński (1932-2007) riporta la sua esperienza africana dal 1957 al 1998, anno della pubblicazione.
Per elementi di conoscenza più recenti, ammesso e non concesso che qualcosa laggiù sia cambiato, occorrono altre letture.
This book came as a revelation to me! It enlightened me about the history, spirit and psyche of Africa (a meaningless appellation), and made me acutely aware of my smug ignorance about this vast, endlessly diverse continent. Kapuscinski, who’s covered dozens of coups and revolutions as a conflict reporter in the era of decolonization, writes about the continent and its people with empathy, never exoticizing it. I would go as far as to say that The Shadow of the Sun is probably the best work of travel writing I’ve read. Highly recommended!
I diari africani del grande Kapuściński, come sempre in grado di calarsi in qualsiasi situazione e andare al fondo delle persone e dei fatti con estrema umiltà.Non giudica mai, non c'è mai superiorità nelle sue descrizioni, ma un continuo chiedersi la ragione delle cose, quella vera, e una naturale e incredibile capacità di guardare dietro le apparenze e trovare l'origine delle colpe.Nonostante sia datato, credo che Ebano sia tutt'oggi uno dei migliori libri per conoscere le radici del disastro Africa.
Ma in fondo continuerà a viaggiare e a scrivere i suoi diari senza mai lamentarsi perché lui da reporter vuole vivere come un africano e infatti abiterà in bidonville schiacciato insieme a decine di africani,in case di fortuna con muri di fango e ma anche in alberghi con centinaia di insetti.E man mano che si prosegue i diari si snodano dando anche dello spazio per la storia dell'Africa, con uno sguardo lucido Kapuściński affronterà i grandi temi della storia dell'Africa dal colonialismo fino a Idi Amin, da Haile Selassie al genocidio in Ruanda, dai bambini soldato protagonisti di ogni conflitto in Africa fino alla fame che divora il continente.Dipingendo i due volti dell'Africa: quello vivace e ricco di positività e quello dominato dalla violenza e caratterizzato dall'inquietudine.Il punto di forza di questo saggio è che Kapuściński non annoia e spesso riesce a descrivere fatti storici in modo semplice ed essenziale.
"The Shadow of the Sun", a set of stories by Ryszard Kapuscinski, a Polish journalist who travelled and lived in Africa numerous times between the 50s and the 90s, has definitely taught me humbleness and almost painfully exposed my ignorance of Africa.
Reading this book felt like leafing through an album full of colorful postcards of a faraway place: startlingly visual fragments of an alien reality, shocking at times, inviting at others, and always memorable.Kapuscinski provides us with more questions than answers, provokes our curiosity, gives us just enough facts to start craving for more.
Ryszard Kapuscinski was the foreign correspondent par excellence, someone who could simultaneously travel rough, report the story, appreciate and approach the local people on their own terms, and weave his experiences into a narrative of uncommon breadth and intelligence. And it's even more impressive when you realize he's covering Africa for the presumably shoestring Polish communist press. Books like these up the ante for book-length journalism, and show what an absolute shit job the puppets ensconced in the Times and the Post are doing.
Sa mạc, cát, nóng, nghèo, đói, chiến tranh, nô lệ.Không có hồi kết."Nghịch lý của thế giới chúng ta: nếu tính chi phí vận chuyển, dịch vụ, lưu kho và bảo quản thực phẩm, thì chi phí của một bữa ăn (thường là một nắm ngô) cho người trong một trại tị nạn nào đó, ví dụ như ở Sudan, còn cao hơn giá một bữa tối trong tiệm ăn đắt tiền nhất Paris."
This book takes you on an a whirlwind tour of Africa over the span of many years, many countries, and many different types of situations.
The essays span the continent and quickly zoom the reader in and then back out of small incidents, large coups, nomadic wanderings, war lords, and everything (and everyone) in between.
I've never been able to get my mind around Africa.
Its complexity both geographically and politically make it difficult to understand and internalize.
Its now up to me to choose where to focus as I strive to learn more about Africa.
Africa and Kapuscinski. Kapuscinski's Africa.Burning hot continent, swept by waves of revolution, war, man slaughter but also of unbearable beauty. A place of utmost complex diversity there's no generalization can capture it. Honestly, Africa had been outside my radar before reading this. But the gift and curse of Kapuscinski's writing is that it drew me in, dragged me to the unknown and made me pause to think. My world is getting larger, vaster and richer. I am a bit relieved that he had written only a score of books; he'd made me a full time traveler otherwise. five stars
Đã cười rất nhiều vì những chi tiết hài hước thú vị, nhưng cũng có những đoạn đau thương, quá sức đáng sợ và rùng rợn. Thích cách tác giả miêu tả việc những người dân bản địa không thể sống thiếu cộng đồng, bộ tộc của họ, vì nỗi sợ hãi lớn nhất là bị bỏ lại một mình giữa bóng tối dày đặc bất chợt ập đến, giữa thiên nhiên khắc nghiệt dày xéo nơi đây.
Cuốn sách như một bộ phim sống động quay lại cuộc sống - thể hiện văn hoá, chính trị, địa lí ở châu Phi. Vài điều đọng lại: - Khái niệm thời gian: ngược lại với người châu Âu khi họ là nô lệ của thời gian, tuân thủ nó một cách nghiêm ngặt, ngưởi châu Phi lại là ông chủ của nó - 1 sự việc chỉ được xảy ra, mang ý nghĩa, khi nó được xuất hiện trên dòng chảy thời gian mà điểm bắt đầu - kéo dài bao lâu đều do người châu Phi tự quyết định hết.
In reality, except as a geographical term, Africa doesn't exist.” Ryszard Kapuściński crossed the African continent (and pretty much the rest of the world as well) several times.
With an humble attitude and an open mind he really tries to understand, even if he can’t always explain.“Our world, seemingly global, is in reality a planet of thousands of the most varied and never intersecting provinces.
Often, the native and the newcomer have difficulty finding a common language, because each looks at the same place through a different lens.
Here is a long quote:"The European and the African have an entirely different concept of time.
An unresolvable conflict exists between man and time, one that always ends with man's defeat – time annilhates him.Africans apprehend time differently.
It is a subservient, passive essence, and, most importantly, one dependent on man.The absolute opposite of time as it is understood in the European worldview.In practical terms, this means that if you go to a village where a meeting is scheduled for the afternoon but find no one at the appointed spot, asking, “When will the meeting take place?” makes no sense.
For most people, the real world ends on the threshold of their house, at the edge of their village, or, at the very most, on the border of their valley.
The newcomer has a wide-angle lens, which gives him a distant diminished view, although with a long horizon line, while the local always employs a telescopic lens that magnifies the slightest detail."― Ryszard Kapuściński, The Shadow of the Sun As I started reading, I was getting really frustrated.
And this point was crystallized in the final chapter in which Kapuscinski muses about history and myth, recounting the life in a village in Erithrea.Just wonderful!
It is doing today with the Dinka and the Nuer what Stalin did with the Ukranians in 1932: it is starving them to death.from wiki - The Shadow of the Sun (Polish: Heban) is a non-fiction book by the Polish writer Ryszard Kapuściński, published in English translation in 2001.Kapuściński, a journalist who covered Africa from 1957 to the 1990s, wrote a number of books about his experiences in the continent and all over the world which have been widely translated.
Each could stand alone as a finished work, yet together they form a unique portrait of Africa, its peoples and the writer himself.
