https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1137215.Boneshaker
That's how I lost my legs.""Please, Bingley, don't tell us that old story again," Mr. Hurst said, adjusting himself on the sofa before falling back asleep.Darcy said, "The plot moves along at a good pace, but the characters are a bit uninspired.
He lurched across the room toward Bingley, whose back was facing him.Eliza kicked off of the wall and rolled over to Darcy, pulling his pistol from his belt, and fired several rounds through Mr. Hurst's head.
Pipe smoking is encouraged over there." And as Holmes left the room, suddenly the review stopped.
How could you go wrong?For starters, you could have lead characters that I never really connected with or cared that much about.
Protagonists whose most active role was to get themselves into the city, and then who became fortunes of fate, as things happened to them.
And I never really connected with them, so didn't much care.And the whole thing with the big bad was meh.
There's something which happens at the end which Briar is said not to care about because her focus is on something else.
The only thing I did sort of care about is the fate of Swahkhammer, which we're left not knowing.
His mother, Briar Wilkes, goes into the walled wasteland to bring him out.
Can she find Zeke before Dr. Minnericht finds him?I've got mixed feelings about this one.
A steampunk book with zombies and airships shouldn't have so many dull spots.
Dr. Minnericht was a Darth Vader-ish enemy but the reveal of his identity was pretty good, as was his death.I wouldn't exactly say I'd recommend buying this but if you could find someone to lend it to you, I don't think you'll be very disappointed.
Posted at Shelf Inflicted Dazzling inventions, air pirates, evil bad guys, underground vaults, goggles, daring rescues, gold, Blight gas, a one-armed bartender, a princess, zombies.
The main characters were well developed and fascinating.
Briar Wilkes, widow of Leviticus Blue, eccentric inventor, searches for her teenage son, Zeke, in a walled-off section of Seattle, where a dangerous yellow gas shrouds the city, forcing the remaining inhabitants to live underground.
Lots of action, suspense, and vibrant, quirky characters helped move the story along at a brisk pace.
I thoroughly enjoyed the twists, surprises, and very satisfying ending of this riveting adventure story.
I definitely got into it when all the zombie stuff took off, cool details there.3) All the Steampunk stuff was awesome, and well detailed and realized.
The world definitely grew on me a lot.4) Main problem was that the characters didn't hook me until WAAAY into the book.
I really feel like the main character could have been fleshed out more, maybe it was the spare prose style that kept me a bit distanced from caring enough?
I did love the fact that she wasn't a cliched "peppy go-getter lady lead who meets a dreamy airship captain".
So kudos for a different woman lead there.
Definitely recommended for an interesting, Western-style Steampunk extravaganza.
I dug Cherie Priest’s Boneshaker, but I wanted so much more.
I dug the dirigibles, and for once there was enough time with the Skypirates to fulfill my desire.So to recap: I dug it, but...
Mostly because this was essentially a really long Scooby Do chase sceneWe have Leviticus Blue - crazed inventor of the "Boneshaker." Years ago, he "took it for a test run"...aka drilled underground and into the bank.
Figure 1: The Boneshaker.
We follow Briar, his widow, and Ezekiel, his son.
Ezekiel - desperate to clear his father's name grabs a gas mask, crosses the barrier and enters the blight-stricken city.
Briar, upon hearing this, grabs a different gas mask, enters to bring her son back.
Commence the Scooby Do-ing.
Though, I did notice that everyone speaks completely normal while constantly wearing gas masks.
The rest of the world walled Seattle off and did their best to forget about it, except for two things: they still hate Briar, as a stand-in for Blue; and the yellow gas can be distilled into a drug (of course the new drug comes through Seattle.
I'm particularly fond of the Indian Princess who was oracle-like in her advice, and mysterious enough that Zeke wasn't sure if she was going to knife him or save him.Criticisms: Blah, airships.
I suppose they are useful for getting characters in and out of walled cities.
Not sure where it got the story, except some navel-gazingness.
I liked the set up of this steampunk story and I thought the characters were well developed (especially Briar who I thought was great).
For me, I would have liked to have learned more about the "alternate" world in which the book is set in and have the story tie into (or at least hint at) bigger issues to come.
All and all, it was a decent read and I will read the next book in the series when it comes out where the story will hopefully expand.Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Novel Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Novel
engaging but decidedly minor yarn featuring brave women, pirate airships, a zombie plague, and a battered & barricaded alternate seattle. the steampunk elements are of the american west variety, so as far as the atmosphere conveyed, this is more muggy days than foggy nights. enjoyable for the most part, although the highly tedious & annoying character of the son made the last third tough-going at times.i really don't have much else to say. this was a pleasant and forgettable way to pass an evening. so here are some things to fill out this so-called review:
  
  fridtjof nansen:
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
is just ‘a book’.Before I start my grumbling, I’d like to acknowledge the many things that Priest does well here:-	The original concept is brilliant-	The book tumbles along at a good pace-	Much of the imagery is strong and memorable-	Several of the supporting characters stand out brightly 	(I'm thinking of Swakhammer, Lucy O'Gunning and Fang)So far, so good?My first big issue comes with the Mother/Son protagonists (Briar & Zeke).
Boneshaker is very different from other Steampunk books that I've read (and enjoyed).
It's the bleakest dystopia I've read so far, one where people can't even breathe the air.
Most of the time not spent running from rotters is spent trying to breathe through masks that filter out the yellow sludge that turns people into rotters.
Too much time is spent on every little detail of how hard it is to get by there, on details I'd really like to get out of my head somehow.I could have used more focus on the people and their interactions, because that's when it started to get more interesting (in the last quarter of the book).
Cherie (disclosure: she's a good friend, and I read the ARC of Boneshaker) has crafted a beautiful and believable world, and filled it with characters who never once rang false to me. The characters, the dialog, and the descriptive prose all come together to create a wonderful novel that is is easy to read and hard to put down.
I rarely (because I'm cheap and OCD) abandon a book.
It may take me awhile, but eventually the constant chirp in the back of my brain makes me run and pick the damn thing up and just finish it.
However, there are few RARE exceptions to this rule.
Thus I excommunicate it: close the book, blow out the candle, and ring the damn bell.
But every boy wants his father to be perfect, so Zeke runs away from home to go to Seattle and prove his father’s innocence.As much as I enjoyed the (too few) steampunk elements in Boneshaker, what I found most intriguing was the complexity of Briar’s relationship with her teenage son Zeke.
I normally dislike situations that stem from lack of communication between characters, but in Boneshaker, their reasons for not sharing secrets with each other were so painful and real that I couldn’t blame Cherie Priest for deciding to write it exactly like that.
I just kept reading, looking out for the next cool idea (the villain's lair is an interconnected series of train cars, buried underground!), but not getting involved in the story, which includes a fairly pedestrian mystery (who is the evil mad scientist?) and two dull leads (a mother's quest to save her son can probably be an interesting structure upon which to hang a zombie airship novel, but it would require interesting characters).I don't quite get it.
My husband gave up on this one when he got a hundred pages in, and felt nothing was happening.
So I wasn't too sure what I would make of it, but in the end, I liked it a lot more than he did.
I certainly never felt like nothing was happening, and the core mother-son dynamic of the book I found particularly engaging.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
This so could be made into film... loved it! Thanks Cherie :)
Then I heard Cherie Priest was coming to a local bookstore, Murder by the Book (great name, right?) in a week.
Her editor had Cherie drop a vampire book in progress and devote her attention to this new idea.
Nowadays, she has plans to keep writing in her alternate Clockwork Century world, including books set in New Orleans, Florida, and Washington DC.
R. Martins(!), her new book about an OCD vampire Bloodshot, and so forth.
She also explained why the connector book, Clementine is so hard to find: Tor didn’t want it.
My reaction to this book:70% Really?
But nothing has really happened!85% This is really quite boring87% Oh God, go away90% Maybe I should DNF?95% Somebody shoot me before I have to finish this99% There's a freaking EPILOGUE?!?!
I won't survive...Well clearly I survived, but I do have to say that it takes a special book to turn steampunk and zombies into boredom.
And I can't even imagine making 90% and DNFing.
Until now.Anyway, I found the story boring and predictable and I didn't like the alternating mother/son chapters.
I've been looking forward to this one for a long time, too.
And this of course is where so many genre authors get things wrong, as seen again just last week for example in my review of Peter Crowther's "Forever Twilight" series -- that in their zeal to come up with a great concept to propel their book in general, they forget that an entire three-act storyline needs to be constructed out of that great concept too, leading to stories that often have huge gaping holes in their middles, giant hundred-page sections where literally nothing happens, as the characters essentially sit around having frivolous conversations as they wait for the next lever in that storyline's Grand Concept to kick into gear.So in Priest's case, she starts with a doozy of a concept, which like I said is basically step one in writing a great genre novel -- she imagines an alternative-history late-1800s, in which the Russians have hired an American mad scientist named Leviticus Blue to construct a giant drilling machine he calls the "Boneshaker," so that they can go prospecting under the ice in Alaska and jump-start the Klondike Gold Rush a good half-century before it happened in real life.
A triple steampunk whammy then, seems like an excellent place to sampling this relatively new subgenre.Unfortunately for Boneshaker it is the book I read immediately after Margaret Atwood's wonderful Oryx and Crake, a book it has virtually nothing in common with apart from the author's gender.
There are two protagonists in this book, a lady called Briar and her teenage son Zeke, their relationship is somewhat tumultuous thanks to the absent father who messed up their city with his Boneshaker super drilling machine, which caused buildings to collapse, several deaths, and worse of all release a noxious gas from underground which turn people into zombies (of the fast moving variety).The book is fairly welled paced though there is a chapter of Zeke having a long drawn out angst ridden scene with his mom which taxed my patience a bit.
The ravaged area and the victims were enclosed in walls to keep the blight from spreading.Sixteen years after this disaster the inventor's teenage son Zeke ventures into the ruined area looking for evidence to exonerate his father.
When his mother Briar realizes that he is in danger she goes after him, facing zombies, drug-dealers, mad scientists and other dangers to save her son.
Briar and Zeke were both believable and sympathetic characters, and the people setting, and larger world-building were interesting and imaginative.
I almost stopped reading this book 20 pages in when I realized there was going to be zombies.
It was bad enough that it was a steam punk novel, but OMG zombies?
Steam punk (which is "what happens when goths discover brown") has been strangely annoying to me since it exploded a couple of years ago.
There was exactly one zombie meme that didn't suck, and it was the first one I heard of, when zombies attacked SCA practitioners at some park in Montreal like 7 years ago.But enough about me and me being a curmudgeonly hater.
But finding Zeke in a city of zombies and other perils isn't easy, and when she encounters the folks who live in sealed tunnels under the city she learns of the mysterious inventor, Dr Minnericht, whose clever inventions have helped the people survive, even though they all think he's really Levi Blue, returned to the city he helped destroy.This book came highly recommended by friends, and I want to say that I hope my review doesn't put you off reading it if you were so inclined before, but the sad truth is that I didn't really enjoy this book.
set in an alternate Civil War America where a horrible accident has turned Seattle into a quarantined wasteland filled with zombies. Briar, the widow of the mad scientist who caused the disaster, must enter the city to find her son, who has gone there determined to find evidence that will clear his father’s name. This is a highly original pageturner and a must-read for steampunk fans.
Yield all ye plunder to me!What did you say?
I'm a steampunkin' Sky Pirate now.
Zombies?
A'ight, I'll bring me some muskets fer them, aye?
Heads or tails, aye!
Probably heads would be better with them zombies, har!
And me heard that the lovely Briar Wilkes is in town as well looking fer her son.
Maybe there's plunder to be gained.
There's no Grey's Anatomy to cure that dirty old wound.
And whadda ya mean with flat?
A proper Sky Pirate don't fear no nonsense flat ending.
There's gonna be guns and some big old explosions.
Ahoi, Sky Pirates!!!
Reading Boneshaker is like looking into an old Victorian photograph--the exact effect I’d want if I was writing a book to fit a genre influenced primarily by that era.
Shortly after, healthy people otherwise unaffected by the Drill’s menacing journey start to fall sick and die, but they don’t stay dead for very long.When the novel opens onto the first chapter, we meet Briar Wilkes and her son Ezekiel--Zeke for short--living in what’s now become the Outskirts.
Everyone believes Blue responsible for the Great Blight; Briar and Zeke have had the past 16 years as punishment, reminders from an angry public that won’t let Blue’s legacy die.
In an alternate history setting of Seattle, Washington, during the late 1880's America, Briar Wilkes, daughter of mad inventor, Leviticus Blue, blamed for the destruction and downfall of their city several years prior, enters the dangerous, walled up, toxic gas infested inner city, by airship, to find and retrieve her runaway son, Ezekiel, who's determination to clear Leviticus Blue's name - while hoping to answer who is father is - could lead him to his death at the hands of zombies or possibl
But, his character may need to ripen before he is quite like his mom.I feel that if the book had've kept the spotlight and focus more often on Briar Wilkes, and a little less on her son, Zeke, it would've easily been a full 5 stars for me.
Cherie Priest's novel centres around an accident triggered by inventor Leviticus Blue which released a poisonous gas into a fictionalised Seattle.
Zeke decides that he has had enough of living with his mother's refusal to talk about the past and ventures back into zombie and Blight infested Seattle, forcing his mother to follow and creating a few revelations about what happened in that city.The depth of this novel consists of being able to perceive that this is a tale about human corruption.
In the case of this novel redemption must be found for Leviticus Blue and for Briar Wilkes.
