https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/455373.Sphere
Back in 1993, after reading Jurassic Park (see review of that book HERE), I was like in  Crichton-mode actived!  ;)So, my next novel had to be by Michael Crichton!I went to the bookstore and this one was the first book that I checked and after reading the premise, I found it promising. ;)So, I bought it and started to read it.WoW!!!!!!!Since the beginning I was in shock amalgamated with happiness since the style and mood of the novel was astonishing good. (Of course, by then I hadn't read yet Th
(Of course, by then I hadn't read yet The Andromeda Strain, so the idea of gathering a group of expert scientist to deal with something alien was something new for me :P )I don't know if happens to you, that sometimes if you are reading a novel that it hasn't being made into a film yet (I read the novel like 5 years before to be poorly adapted to a movie) sometimes I imagined some actor or actress to "play" the role of the character in my mind, an amusing thing was by then, in 1993, Sharon Stone was in hype due films like "Basic Instinct" and "Sliver", so when I imagined some actress to fill my image of Dr. Beth Halperin, I thought in Sharon Stone that she eventually got the role!Honest to God!
(Life update: I am procrastinating).In my opinion, you can only truly rate a Michael Crichton book by a) the depth and originality of the concept and b) the lucidity of the monologue/essay that will always occur, usually as a rant from some broken visionary genius or another, approx.
While the plot is a highlight, I personally keep this book high on my list of favorites, after all these years, because of the Essay, which breaks with/plays off Crichton's typical form: instead of a broken monologue with a human genius, it takes the form of an italicized, nearly stream of consciousness Socratic dialogue with...
I had some idea what to expect when I picked up the late Michael Crichton's sci-fi thriller Sphere because I'd seen the movie years ago -- a movie I love by the way despite a lot of lambasting from the critics and grumbling from the book's fans.
Sure it isn't perfect (with its moments of cheese and flubs); nevertheless, the exciting, chilling core of Crichton's story is evident and for me the film still stands as a great example of escapist cinema, that mesmerizing addictive blend of science fiction and horror.
One of my favorite movie genres is space horror.
Norman's paper, which he considered a joke at the time, was titled "Recommendations for the Human Contact Team to Interact with Unknown Life Forms (ULF)." Norman is taken to meet his recommendations:* Ted Fielding is a 40-year-old astrophysicist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
Barnes explains that Navy studies have shown women to be superior to men for submerged operations.* In a key passage of the novel, the contact team stops before entering the spacecraft to debate each other on the topic of ceremony.Edmunds: "Tape is running."Ted: "I'd like to say a few words."Harry: "Jesus, Ted. Can't you ever let up?"Ted: "I think it's appropriate."Harry: "Go ahead, make your speech."Ted: "Hello.
It follows a group of scientists as they investigate what is thought to be an alien vessel that crashed on the ocean floor.Crichton's musings have a tendency to be deeply speculative of the human condition, but without using language that alienates the audience.
This novel's plot takes a sharp left turn off the path I expected it to take, which isn't necessarily a bad thing.
I had the urge to keep looking over my shoulder even though the events taking place in the book didn't relate at all to what I was doing in real life.
I’m not going to lie, the writing was really good, the science was fun and the characters were likable but boy was the plot L A M E.
That being said, what I really love about Michael Crichton’s books is that he makes science really fun and explains it in a way that someone who isn’t scientifically inclined, AKA me, can understand and really enjoy it.
I could also laugh at science-y jokes like I knew what was going one which made me feel smart and cool.
What I liked • Interesting premise that held my attention up until the middle of the book, where improbable things start happening and Crichton failed to make them feel real • Slightly dry, witty style of writing, but again, made the dialogue really unrealisticWhat I didn't like• Terribly written characters.
Crichton has managed to make her into a whiny, insecure, overcompensating person on the issue of her gender.
Surely a more complex personality can be used as a plot point/portrayal of imperfect woman/whatever he was trying to achieve?!
• Unrealistic portrayal of emotions, situations, personalities • The premise isn't unforgettable, regrettably.
Well, I had no idea there was a Sphere book. I only saw the movie and thought that was it. Not to mention that the book is written by the same author as Jurassic Park. A group of American scientists are rushed to a huge vessel that has been discovered resting on the ocean floor in the middle of the South Pacific. What they find defines their imaginations and mocks their attempts at logical explanation. It is a spaceship of phenomenal dimensions, apparently, undamaged by its fall from the sky. An
Well, I had no idea there was a Sphere book.
Not to mention that the book is written by the same author as Jurassic Park.
Both the book and the movie have the same ending.
But the journey to get to that ending is quite different at times.
I liked them both.The nature of the sphere itself remains a mystery, and I'm pleased and disappointed with that at the same time.
I'm pleased because not everything has to explained, and disappointed because I really wanted to know whether it was an alien being or just a machine.
Read this when I was in high school, and was one of the few times I've been up nearly all night reading, saying to myself every hour, "I need to go to sleep," but then couldn't put it down.
The movie adaptation was atrocious, so don't judge this story based on the film (I always pictured Ted Knight in the role of Ted, not Liev Schreiber [though Mr Schreiber is a talented actor]).
experience: "Do you want to understand how to ride a bicycle, or do you want to get on and start riding?"A very fun read.
Oh I liked this book!The psychological thriller combined with sci-fi: an excellent mix!Can't wait to watch the movie adaption now. A spacecraft is found underwater...There is a sphere inside it. A group of scientists are sent to investigate but of course, strange things start to happen. Tense and gripping.
The book to some extent was about how these different personalities would react in a crisis situation, and overall, I think Crichton did a good job fleshing that out.
I don’t know how much of it is due to Crichton’s style or to the nature of the sci-fi genre, but the writing was simple and straightforward.
I don’t usually do sci-fi, let alone a mysterious alien spaceship in the middle of the ocean.
But for my first Michael Crichton novel, I was pretty satisfied overall.
It was different from what I usually read but certainly a welcome change of pace.
Do you all remember how great the Andromeda Strain was and how us baby boomers were hooked therefore on Crichton's future endeavors, however unscientific and implausible his writings became?
I believe many of you were not that impressed today with his writing, and have missed a lot because of the movies instead.
I truly enjoyed this book and could easily see how a movie would be made someday in the future.
Since this review was done post mortem, let's just agree that he had a big future and influence on furthering Hollywood's endeavors with the SciFi genre.
One of the first books I ever read, and will always hold a big place in my heart. There's always room for (view spoiler)[black-hole time-travel under-water space-monsters that's all in your mind (hide spoiler)].
I'm reading Nick Cutter's upcoming horror novel The Deep right now and it's reminded me of how much I enjoyed Sphere, Michael Crichton's best novel.
It was my favorite book when I was a kid.
I remember what a page-turner it was and how much the tension kept ratcheting up until it was unbearable.
I remember the plot being extremely clever as well, and how much of it was dependent on less of the sci-fi aspects and more on the characters themselves.
I read it so much when I was younger, the book fell apart.
The Navy assembles an Unknown Life Form welcome squad based on recommendations Norman drafted for a top secret government project six years earlier.
The three survivors all entered the sphere at different times and learned that it granted them the “power to make things happen just by thinking of them.
Evidently the sphere could also manifest positive realities, like when Harry wanted shrimp for dinner and a school appeared, but we do not see much of that as the team becomes increasingly stressed and frightened.
To save humanity from its own destruction, Norman, Beth, and Harry agree to forget the sphere.
I had a claustrophobic feeling all through while reading this thrilling book about the discovery and the consequent scientific expedition to understand the alien spacecraft lying on the pacific ocean bed, a 1000-feet deep.
Although I did not like the way the story changed or 'the explanation' of the spacecraft and what's inside, I felt Crichton did a good job at creating a unique situation that results from his choices for the story.
I see movies like Alien and the sequels getting cult fan following, but how can a specialist team not have the sense to do stupid stuff that common sense should ideally prevent them from doing.
Science investigators ARE remarkably territorial, argumentative and viciously competitive.) I also was fascinated by the protocols the author mentions that have been created for determining if Earth is dealing with extraterrestrial life if some sort of contact from space seemingly has occurred.The plot of ‘Sphere’:Fifty-three year old Dr. Norman Johnson, psychologist, has been selected as a member of a special American Navy exploration team of civilians.
The book maintains a solid footing in speculative sci-fi from beginning to end, and although the dialogue reminded me of 'The Thing...' movie, the mystery behind the fin reminded me of SolarisWow, is there a lot on the Internet about determining if space aliens are really from space!
I liked the mystery and investigation aspect of the story, more than the viewpoint of the main character itself though.As the plot develops and we learn more about not only the ship, but the sphere it contains, I found my mind starting to wander.
I've always been more of an engineer than a scientist, but I don't know why anyone would want to deal with that.As with the other Michael Crichton books I've read, this one takes science and posits some plausible seeming possibilities.
Un buon libro di fantascienza che indaga nella psicologia e nel subconscio umano. Se non avete visto il film ve lo godrete appieno, ma è comunque godibilissimo anche per chi ha già visto la versione cinematografica. Non il migliore di Crichton (fra quelli che ho letto) ma sicuramente molto piacevole, anche se qualche ingenuità poteva essere evitata. Il mio voto: 3,5 stelle.
Words cannot express the contempt I harbor for this book.My hatred for it knows no boundries. There are few pieces of literature that I cannot come to appreciate in some way, even fewer that compel me to demand the time back that I spent reading it so that I may do something more productive like piss on the third rail.It was rather suprising, considering Michael Crichton has published some excellent work. I guess he pulled this one out of his ass while drunk/high/stoned/oncrack/bordering on suicide.
it is awsome!!!!!!!!!!
Michael Crichton had some amazing ideas, as pretty much all the blurbs on his books catch my interest.
But, and that's a big "but", the writing is terrible.
Sphere is heavy on dialogue, flat characters, and sensational action scenes.
It's obvious that Crichton's true calling was screenplay writing, and so far all of the books that I've read by him were made into movies.
He often wrote about interesting and very much possible technologies, but I so wish his execution was better.
Nevertheless, this novel is fun, easy on the brain, and drowning in enough cheese to make this a guilty pleasure.
The first half of 'Sphere' is probably the greatest thing Crichton ever wrote. The amount of plot twists, each superbly executed, is excellent. However, the second half of the book falls apart as it becomes a different type of story than the first half. Still a very good read and one of Crichton's top five best books, but I just found myself wishing the story could have unfolded at the same high level from the first page to the last.
I really loved this book when I read it as a teenager. Too bad the movie version sucked.
nope.bad cassette quality plus lack od interest
Непознатото плаши, познатото ужасява: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/s...Историята е позната на всичи – най-малкото заради филма по книгата.
На дъното на Тихия океан е открит огромен обект, който скоро е идентифициран като космически кораб, който очевидно е там от векове.
Само дето този контакт е вече реалност и той е част от група, която трябва да слезе на дъното, да поживее в свръхтехнологична подводна станция и да разкрие колкото е възможно повече за кораба.
Екипът е от блестящи специалисти в различни области, но това, което ги очаква, ще изиска от тях много повече от професионална експертиза.Издателска къща БАРДhttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/s...
They go around the ship, and eventually find a big sphere in there.
They go back in the sub, and wierd creatures start appearing, like mutants.
There is a guy named Jerry.
They freak out, because it is destroying their sub.norm sneaks out and over to the big ship.
It turns out that Jerry was Harry.
Harry is a man on this ship.
He was the guy that went into the sphere.Then a squid starts attacking the ship.
That is, not harry, beth or Norm.
He gets beth and harry and goes to the surface.
Upon meeting his other team members and being briefed by Captain Barnes, who is head of the operation, he soon learns that they're actually investigating an alien spacecraft more than 300 years old at the bottom of the ocean.
And though at times it does have the feel of an adventure on the high seas it does borderline on the horror genre.This was my first book from Michael Crichton.
Crichton does his job well at mastering the art of the written word and keeping the reader in the jaws of suspense.Though it does differ from the film, sometimes minutely and other times quite greatly, both have the same feel and even the same terror to them.
The book opens with an extremely promising, thought-provoking concept that is too quickly and unfortunately abandoned: Beneath the modern-day ocean a ship thought to be alien, sunken for three hundred years, turns out to be The USS StaR Voyager, having apparently traveled through time to get there.
It's a great story at that point, but there Crichton decides to deal with the one oddity found aboard: The sphere.Let me tell you, all the way through the book I was hoping Captain Janeway would make her grand entrance uttering her infamous bully speech!
That dang Kraken from Verne's book!
I mostly just browse through a chapter of a book because it becomes boring or seem useless to me.
(view spoiler)[ my favorite character from the book would have to be Ted, and up to now it still annoys me that he had to die.
Right from the start I knew Harry would make it till the end, but I expected Ted to make it and not Beth.
It could be a manifestation of Crichton not being sexist, and giving importance to females.
Crichton never fails to amaze me.
