https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421417.Brain_Child
Interesting story! Despite being published in 1985, it wasn't all that dated.
loved it!
Ahora, después de todo éste tiempo, he leído el libro y estoy aquí para escribir esa reseña.Me gustó.
La historia logro interesarme en muchas ocasiones aunque luego daba giros que me parecían malos, pero bueno, estaba bien.
Ahora Alex ya no es el mismo.(view spoiler)[Hay escenas que creo pudieron haber sido más extensas y más detalladas.
El Dr. Torres creo que fue un personaje muy poco explotado, daba para más.El final pudo haber sido mucho mejor, de hecho estaba yendo bastante bien hasta que Alex regresó a su casa.
This book was a bit different than what John Saul usually writes. I mean, of course, there are crimes and suspense moments, all wrapped in a shroud of mystery but still... I realised by reading this book that, after all, the soul is what makes us human: the experiences we've been through, the emotions we've learned to express. And if something can interfere with our humanity and our empathy towards others is not knowing to forgive and forget.
This book was a fairly simple read about a teen who'd gotten into a horrible car accident.
On the surface he appears to be the old Alex Lonsdale that everyone wants him to be, minus feelings.
The book is a farely easy read and I was able to breeze through it pretty quickly.
I liked it, hence the 3-star rating.
There just wasn't anything special about this book that would garner more than 3-stars (for me).
If you're looking for an easy read, or time-filler, this is the book for you.
Evil doctor with evil plans and an evil experiment...and you know the rest of the story if you've read a John Saul book before.Nothing new under the sun.Also, the author is a cheater, he writes a character giving it some thoughts and treats that drastically change towards the end making it seem it was like that since the beginning but it doesn't make any sense since it's supposed to be an omniscent narrator (view spoiler)[ Dr. Torres at the beginning acts like he doesn't know what's going on with Alex, even when he's alone, but at the end turns out he did know the whole time because he programmed him to do all those things.
So what the hell, John Saul??
(hide spoiler)]
Alex, a popular high school student, suffers extensive brain damage in a car accident.
His parents release what appears to be a brain-dead boy to the care of Dr. Torres, an innovative brain surgeon.
Dr. Torres succeeds to the extent that Alex revives, suddenly brilliant but without memory or emotions.
Then a seed of evil that stems from an ancient wrong invades Alex's brain, and the question arises: is Dr. Torres a hero or a devil?
The story has a Twilight Zone feel.
The viewpoints are many, and the characters are sympathetic, but not so deep as to allow the reader to become overly attached to each.
So this was one of the first John Saul books that I read when I was 15, and at the time it was really groundbreaking in terms of the use of technology.
But now, re-reading it, the story loses a bit of it's charm because technology has advanced so far that it doesn't really have the same terror/scary effect now as it did before.
The ideas presented are not as far fetched as they once were.
The work we are doing with computers and genetics really has come a long way and that dates this book.
This was another excellent read by John Saul.
I enjoy the way the author constructs this story as it is an older book, the technology aspect of this read was fascinating and incredibly creative.
This is the second book I read by this author in a little over 24 hours and, with good reason.
Once I startb his books I just can't tear myself away.
Another reminder why I began to look foward to his books many moons ago.
I will definitely be combing the bookstore for more of his books as even after all this time the have not lost their luster.
I didn't even finish it. It bored the crap out of me. Very seldom do I not finish a book once I start it but this time I just couldn't finish it. I tried to read the book but I just couldn't do it. It was sooooo bad. Hell the book deserves half a star.Not really anybody's idea of a good start to the year on reading. No one wants to start their year reading a book that sucks ass...well I did so it can only get better.
This book picked up a little bit after the brain surgery but overall the plot moved too slowly for my liking. None of the characters were likeable or memorable. When characters were killed toward the end of the book, I wondered to myself, "Who was that?" Without giving too much away, the moral of this story is be careful who you're rude to in high school-- they may grow up to be influential and hold a grudge.I give this one star.
I think I just found a new to me favorite author. This was the first John Saul book I have ever read and LOVED it. This book was about a teenager that got into a really bad accident and had a brain surgery that turned him into someone else. Creepy goodness. I didn't want to sleep until this one was finished.
I liked the book very much.A science fiction book can develop in any direction the author might want, and thats whats happening here.Whats happening in the book is totally unrealistic, but I had some nice hours in the company of the brain child.
Interesting, but nothing special, and much of it just dragged on to the point where it became perpetually dull and boring. I liked the vibrant writing style of the intro, but otherwise a lot of this book was just filler.
This was a wonderful book! It threw you in all directions so you didn't know the outcome until the end. I loved it and highly recommend this book!
Pretty interesting but at the end led me to think again that there could be a sequel.
OMG!! What a nightmare! Engrossing and terrifing
Loved it!
I enjoyed it alot. it was like watching a science fiction movie
I mean, I remember coming randomly across him in a second-hand bookstore, (which is how my bullshit personal story to every book I read seems to start), and being mildly captivated by the images on all his books.
No, I said backflaps, you fucking ...First Saul book I read was Hellfire, because it had a creepy front-cover, and the back said something about a haunted mill in rural America.
There’s the snooty rich girl, who will probably get killed in a way that isn’t supposed to be satisfying but can’t help being so anyway.
John Saul is basically like a cheeseburger.
Almost disappointing, but not!I'm not a fan of stories where people feel justified to wrong others of a certain class because their ancestors were wronged by this class of people way back when. With that said, this story almost plunges into that...but surfaces out of it in a very interesting way. It's a "monster" story in a fresh new sense.Lots of build up and back story, but it didn't really drag on, and it felt necessary. Also I was pleased with the ending, to know my guess at an underlying cause was right :) no spoilers.
me gusta micho el estilo del escritor pero estw libro me ha aburrido y decepcionado bastante. El trama se desarrolla bastante lento que en las primeras 100 paginas no pasa nada relevante a excepción del epílogo que son tres hojas. Me hubiera gustado encontrar más escenas de tensión y misterio , paginas llenas de sangre, violencia y terror pero en este libro solo hay un 10%.Aunque la historia da para mucho, no supo jugar bien su trama
This book is dated and fairly banal. The characters are boring and two dimensional and the setting and background are too specific to be appealing to a broad group of readers. The ending switches it from science fiction to horror but basically it is a very, very long short story with an overly simplistic plot.
Good horror writer along with Stephen King and Dean Koontz. Reread this book to get ready to donate to the local library. Looking forward to rereading more of his. This was a good story and really made believable by inserting a technology theme. Good characterization of the main characters, but I liked one of the secondary characters better.
A book ahead of its time. A story that now doesn't seem so far fetched at all. Fairly moving with decent character development. Saul makes the reader care about a character that is devoid of emotions. It's through others we know what is missing, as does the character. Very good. Enjoyed this quite a bit.
I totally loved this book ! It is a simple read a real page turner. It wasn't spine chilling by any means- it just kept me going I wanted to know what happened next. An easy read to take on holiday and leave by the pool when your done.
Este libro empezó muy bien, al final algo así como al final de dos terceras parte del libro tiene un bajo un tanto pronunciado, el cual es remontado con un evento el cual no podía creer mientras leía, un final un tanto escabroso pero bueno y acorde a toda la novela, muy recomendable.
enjoyed this book Saul is a great writer when he gets going he can compete with stephen King easy the best john Saul book I have read yet can't say I've read a bad one yet though I am defo a fan now on to the next one
The last time I read a John Saul book I must have been about 12 years old. I should have let my fond memories of his stories lie undisturbed. It was bad...
I love John Saul's books. I have read a lot of them but somehow missed this one. It was as good as all the rest.
