https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15760.Dark_Rivers_of_the_Heart
This book is made of fail.I tried three separate times to finish reading Dark Rivers, but unfortunately, it simply couldn't hold my interest.
Not only did it feel at times like he was simply writing to fill up space, drawing out each event or description as much as possible rather than reworking the material to create a longer, more intensive plotline, his insistence on dragging out the final revelation regarding the protagonist's "dark secret" was quite frankly irritating.

In 2017, I successfully completed Dark Rivers of the Heart with the Koontzland - Dean Koontz Group.
I can't think of another Dean Koontz novel that is filled with more references & similarities than Dark Rivers - there are shadows of other sagas including Dean's most recent novel THE SILENT CORNER.
There are so many novels that connect to Dark Rivers that I shouldn't even attempt to list them, but here are a few: The Silent Corner, Hideaway, The Door to December, Velocity, The Key to Midnight, The Face, The Mask, Dragon Tears, Relentless etc.Favorite Passages: Wednesday night, he had stepped through an invisible doorway that separated his lifelong reality from another place.
The books are great, the humor is welcome, and they usually keep me reading until late into the night.Publisher's SummarySpencer Grant had no idea what drew him to the bar with the red door.
On his trail is a shadowy security agency that answers to no one, including the U.S. government, and a man who considers himself a compassionate Angel of Death.
But worst of all, Spencer Grant is on a collision course with inner demons he thought he'd buried years ago - inner demons that could destroy him if his enemies don't first.
What we at first would consider good guys suddenly commit criminal (and even violent) acts right after their introduction.Spencer Grant, the main character, is introduced after he has already met his female counterpart, which is different from Koontz’s usual tactics of letting these characters’ first meeting be witnessed by the reader.
And of course Koontz connaisseurs should never doubt the righteousness of a character accompanied by a loveable canine.The other bit of misdirection concerns Roy Miro, the main villain of the piece, who is introduced helping out a woman with car trouble.
one of his best novels."i chuckle because of so many takes i've read from others who flam-beau koontz for his vision...ha ha ha ha!
big black chrysler limousines, helicopters.spencer and valerie, right, they meet by chance.
"he had good reason not to dwell on the past." (an idea that comes back a time or two in may of koontz's stories, like his latest novella/novel, 2010...what's it call?....shoot me) mormons and guys in suits, hardware in armpits.
nice, too, the idea that is also present in other koontz stories, a kind of network of resistance.i know i've read this one at least twcie, probably three times.
I’m a massive Koontz fan, I love pretty much every book I have read by him, yet I am of the firm belief that his older work is much better than his more recent work.
I admit that the Odd Thomas series is my favourite, but collectively his older work scores higher ratings than his more recent work – for me, that is.So, that means you’re going to hear a number of the same comments about this one as with his other work.As always, Koontz creates a collection of great characters (yep, even those with mysterious pasts) and throws them into a truly gripping story.
A good story but far too long this was the second group read for Koontzland
Pretty good book, Dean Koontz usually writes very interesting novels. :)
Koontz does a very similar thing on page 309, where he interrupts his (previously alluded to) story about commandeering a spy satellite to interject some garbage about EPA: “The EPA cooperated so successfully with the Department of Justice that a citizen who even inadvertently contaminated protected wetlands was at risk of spending more time in prison than would a doped-up gangsta dude who killed a 7-Eleven clerk, a pregnant mother, two nuns, and a kitten while he was stealing forty dollars and a Mars bar.” Ho-ho!
I have a love/hate relationship with most of his books.
The "hate" part is that I can't get anything done when I'm engrossed in his books.
And after I escape, wrung-out and exhausted, I look around and am overwhelmed with all the stuff I DIDN'T get done while I was under his spell.This book is no exception.
Maybe a few minor details, but mostly it was perfection and I was left being paranoid of the power the government has over our lives, and it wouldn't take much of a stretch for this novel to be a true story.

GREAT READ! This one comes highly recommended. also check out From the Corner of His Eye Large Print  and Life Expectancy After this sample you will be hooked and will surely want more. This Koontz addiction is like crack.
8/18/2017Someone literally left this book on a table by my desk at work and said ANYONE could take it! I was like, Ummm, okay, that book's mine now...because I am, naturally, a book hoarder (and really, no one else at my work wanted it because it just sat on that table all day, which is inexplicable to me -- who wouldn't want a FREE BOOK?!?!). So, now it's sitting on my desk, just waiting to be read...at some point...when I dig myself out of the pile of books I have to be read at home.
It's been a while since I've read a Dean Koontz novel. I don't know how I could have missed this one! Spencer Grant has a mysterious past that the reader only slowly learns about. He is in love with a woman he knows little about and is being chased by people who want him dead. This book is fast-paced and exciting. Every chapter adds more depth to the story and builds on the character of Spencer Grant and his violent past. I think I need to go back and reread more of Koontz's novels. Excellent writer!
Could not put this down. It had me on the edge of my seat all the way through. I also appreciated that the ending was realistic, and that not everything was tied up in a neat little bow.
Much of the book involves Grant chasing down the woman and Miro chasing them both, once he suspects that Grant must know the woman well and thus shares the same knowledge she has.My favorite character though, and perhaps part of Mom's love of the book was Rocky, a mutt with as questionable a past as Grant, who Grant is loyally devoted to, sensing the innocence in his heart and vowing never to lie to the dog.
Rocky does normal dog things like mooching food, ignoring the concept of personal space, and being scared for unusual reasons and I loved the scenes involving him immensely.
2,5 *
This story is meant to be fiction and yet the more time that passes, the more real this chilling account of the world is, not only believable, but also fact...now in 2017.Corruption is rife, laws are beneficial for those in charge and power has twisted the hearts of those who have it.It was a long book and I was surprised by the numerous typos, however, the characters were great, and much of the dialogue between Spencer and Ellie was brilliant and funny (as I expect from this author), and Rocky's personality was both charming and sad.
It doesn't really break any new background; if you've read Koontz before you won't be surprised by anything.The protagonist, Spencer Grant (who of course has a haunted past) travels with his dog Rocky (who has good reasons not to dwell on the past too) in search of a woman, Valerie, whom he fell in love with...after chatting with her for 20 minutes in a bar.
Of course Valerie has mysterious past too, because at her place some kind of SWAT team surprises Spencer and he has to go on the run.The first biggest problem with "Dark Rivers" is that it's very dated.
Dark Rivers of the Heart is a monumental test of human endurance.
He had enough creative ideas for perhaps 75 pages, but decided that he wanted to make a 600 page book, and so resorted to filling the remaining 525 pages with both human and canine diarrhea.
Although such things seem minor at the beginning of the book, when Koontz invests most of his 75 pages of creative material, they become the sole focus of the book when the book progresses and the author runs out of plot.
The junk food I ate while procrastinating reading this book filled dark rivers in my heart.
The day he walks through the red door is the same day he finds himself being hunted by men in helicopters and on a perilous journey for his life through Las Vegas and the over stretched arms of the desert.One man, a dog and a mysterious woman are escaping, they just don't know where to or where it will all end.
At 728 pages it is a hell of a book-end and becomes the longest book of the year for me.I'm not really into thrillers but for this challenge I want to read a few of them as well as other genres.
Bockmist.Das habe ich nun davon, dass ich mich daran gemacht habe, alle Bücher die seit Jahren im Regal verstauben nun doch zu lesen.
15 Jahren verfiel ich den Geschichten von Stephen King und lernte darum auch Dean Koontz kennen.
Jahre und viele Überlegungen später empfand ich diesen Roman aber nur noch als eines: Scheisse.Die Geschichte ist langweilig, voller Logiklöcher, hanebüchen und einfach nur veraltet schlecht.
Und nein lieber Autor, die Hauptperson davon reden zu lassen, dass er aus moralischen Gründen nie eine Lüge erzählt wenn sein Hund dabei ist, das ist kein toller Kniff.Erstaunlich auch, wie viele Seiten Dean Koontz benötigt um seine Geschichte konstant in leeren Kreisen ziehen zu lassen - nur um am Ende alles in eine möchtegern verwobene Struktur einzubetten die überhaupt keine Rolle spielt.
Reasons why I just can't bring myself to finish it are as follows:1.) The story is so shrouded in mystery that it's hard to have a good understanding of what's happening and why.
I'm sure it eventually all becomes clear, but I find it hard to get into a story when I don't even know the motivation of the main character.2.) The cheese factor.
I know Koontz is a great lover of dogs in real life, but this is just too much.
This is the most boringly written Koontz novel that I've ever read.
Трябваше да остави едната ръка на тялото, така че полицаите, съдебният лекар и погребалният агент да видят, че Джиневра е притежавала най-красивите ръце на света.Но ето че един прекрасен ден, докато се опитва да намери информация която да му помогне да хване и убие Спенсър и Валери, Рой е доведен от досаден колега на място където…среща своята половинка.Ив също има специфичен подход към живота.
I have heard that Koontz is a horror writer but had never seen evidence of that.
I will say that two very long parts of this book made me literally sick and I had to switch to skimming.
That may imply that he is a genius at horror.
Anyway, in between the twisted and depraved parts there were slow slow (skimming again) car type chases...Koontz is good at these chase things but the length and unnecessary detail seemed self indulgent.
There was also a lot of technical computer and satellite talk (also seemed excessive and took away from the story...(skim again).
I read this book several times as a teenager and it remains one of my favorite Koontz books.
That's a recurring theme in a lot of Dean Koontz's books, especially those written in the 1980s.
And at the time, it struck a deep chord with me, too.It's interesting to think that some of the high technology mentioned in this story must have seemed like science fiction when the book first came out...though it is mundane and commonplace today, and in many cases, even dated.This was an entertaining read and one that I go back to, again and again.
I enjoyed many of the tid bits of information that were related to true events added to the story and the info at the end of the book really added to the ending, making me think even more about what our society is coming to and how this has all pretty much been in motion and predicted for centuries.
Though I love conclusive endings answering all my questions I enjoyed the open ending of the main characters, good and bad, still going on in their lives, it seemed a very realistic ending, rather than the good guy always winning.
I think the movement of the story was pretty cool. Though I do feel bad for the past that Spencer had. Just sad.The good thing is that it all gets a little better in the end.Koontz is a great writer, but after reading a few books, it gets a bit boring that he has the whole "its-almost-the-same-as-my-last-story-but-with-a-few-changes-in-character-and-situation-maybe-a-pinch-of-spirituality-for-fun-and-maybe-a-change-in-city-or-state" thing he's got going on. But otherwise, he's awesome. Like super.PS: If you haven't read it, it can get a bit traumatizing toward the part where valerie and Spencer head out to colorado, and the "acts" taken place there. You have been warned!!
This book is a poorly written stalker's fantasy. The characters are week and the main message seems to be if you stalk a girl she and are a weird brain damaged conspiracy freak, she'll fall in love with you. I almost didn't finish reading this book, but then I just wanted to see if there was something to it. I don't know how this book got sold to a publisher. The characters are little more than stick figures.
