https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/150683.Amos_Boris
Tonight both kids wanted to hear the story.
They make unlikely friends and yet each is perfectly suited to help the other out of a life threatening situation.
I got teary-eyed reading this.
It was very touching.The art work almost looked like water colors and maybe it was.
It fit in with the water theme perfectly.
There were many blues and grays like the ocean.
The kids repeated some of the beautiful phrases used in the story and he had some great vocabulary words in there also.
This was a joy to read and the kids enjoyed it too.
I have been reading William Steig’s works ever since I was little and now I have just recently read his most heartwarming book yet, “Amos and Boris.” “Amos and Boris” is a children’s book by William Steig which is about a small and adventurous mouse named Amos who finds a friend in a huge whale named Boris when Amos was lost at sea and Boris saves his life.
This is a lovely picture book about an unusual friendship and giving and receiving help. The illustrations are lovely, the plot is good, the language doesn't talk down to children and like all good stories I think this is enjoyable for any age. I was surprised how similar the later published The Snail and The Whale is to this story.
A book that has been read to me countless times, I can proudly state that I no longer cry whenever I read this. Nowadays I simply wish that we all had friends like Amos and Boris.
I loved this book! It's one of those that defies review, because I can't quite put into words what touched me so deeply about this. It's a tale of an unlikely friendship, between an adventuresome mouse and a whale who finds him when his little ship is wrecked. They learn from one another, and the friendship opens their eyes to things in the world they would never have noticed on their own. Others may not be so touched by the ineffable warmth and wisdom I felt in this tale, but for me it's a treasure.
I just loved it.This is the story of an adventurous mouse, and he gets into trouble on his ocean voyage and meets up with a whale.
Amos the mouse and Boris the whale have a lovely friendship, including helping one another in each of their times of need.
It’s a very sweet friendship story.
The whale and the mouse are wonderfully depicted, as are the ocean waves, the boat, the animals at the end, the beach, and everything else.This is a wonderful story for children of all ages, all types of read-aloud situations, and also fine for independent readers to read themselves.Gift worthy.
This is a really sweet little book from William Steig, one of the best authors of children's literature ever.
His prose is full of little gems of language (my favorite is when he describes a beached whale as being "breaded with sand"); this is perhaps the only picture book to use the word "phosphorescent." His illustrations stick with a simple color palette made up mostly of blue, orange, and brown, nothing showy but tremendously effective, especially in some of the panoramic pictures.
Didn't know until later, though maybe I read too much into it, that this was an allegory for a friendship I had (the friend being the one who gifted me that book in the first place). Its about adventure and taking risks and finding friends. Its silly and lovely and still makes me a bit weepy at the end.
One of our favorite books ever. I cried pretty much every time I read this to to my children. Beautiful story.
Someone in the shop the other day asked me if I'd read this and I answered, "Yes, but not for a while." At the same time I was thinking to myself, "Maybe I haven't read it, maybe I just know the title and the cover and have seen it so many times that I feel like I surely must have." So today I took the opportunity and read it.
No, I hadn't read it before.
But now I have.What a gorgeous book.
The mouse comes to his rescue, cleverly enlisting the help of some friendly elephants who luckily happen to be nearby, and they roll the whale back into the sea.Steig's illustrations are beautifully crafted, and he does a wonderful job of conjuring up the feelings of the characters, whether it is the reflections of the mouse early in his voyage ("He was full of wonder, full of enterprise and full of love for life") or the whale's feelings at the touching final farewell at the end ("He looked back at Amos on the elephant's head.
None, some would say; yet Amos and Boris together somehow form one of the truly beautiful friendships in the recent history of literature.
Amos, the mouse, meets Boris, the whale, under far less than ideal circumstances, the former having rolled off his boat in the middle of an exploratory sea voyage, and now languishing in the sea as his tiny body tires in the massive expanse of salt water.
When Amos is able to unexpectedly return the favor to his friend many years later, the reunion between the old friends is truly something for the reader to cherish in his heart, and the eventual parting of the duo is bittersweetly touching to an extent that one just doesn't find in very many picture books.
This is a wonderful tale of friendship and karma.
The two friends, Amos and Boris, meet by chance and form a friendship for a lifetime, even though Amos must live on land and Boris must live in the ocean.
Another chance encounter strengthens the bonds of their friendship.
I picked this out because of my Dad and I love the fact that the story is as old as I am.
We have enjoyed other stories by William Steig - we loved Sylvester and the Magic Pebble and read it over and over.
We also really enjoyed Brave Irene.

I think one of my favorite children's books ever. The adventurous rat's boat sinks while he's sailing the world--he's saved by a whale and they spend time together and make friends while the whale takes him to shore on his back. They have a sad goodbye, but a few years later, the whale washes up on shore and the rat has the opportunity to save the whale's life. A great story about unlikely friendship!
This classic picture book details the friendship of Amos, the mouse, and Boris, the whale. Amos is sailing the great blue ocean when he falls overboard and is rescued by the giant friendly whale, Boris. During their journey back to Amos' home, they become good friends - finding much to admire and respect about each other. They part with Amos promising to help Boris someday, too.
This is one of the sweetest childen's stories ever! Two unlikely friends in Amos and Boris end up helping each other out, one in the ocean and the other on land. The story is really charming, and the illustrations are very cute. There's a nice lesson in this book for children, but it'll make adults smile too!
I read this book with the 3rd grade class I worked with this week. It's short, but definitely gets its message of love, friendship, and loyalty across in those few pages. I'll admit the ending got me a bit verklempt (choked with emotion). Great story to read aloud to grades K-4, but hopefully if you do, you won't be as emotional as me when reading the ending!
Sweet re-imagining of The Lion and the Mouse, but including a story of friendship (I get the impression that although the Lion and Mouse helped each other out and respected each other, they weren't really close pals).
Another classic -- the relationship of two unlikely mammals- a mouse and a whale, filled with adult vocabulary and fabulous illustrations telling the age of tale of how friends can help each other, regardless of size or outward appearance.
I just read this delightful book to my godson and may have been more entertained than he was. The language is beautiful and the story wonderfully unique and touching. We both adored it. Read this to your children, asap.
We just loved this book about friendship!
Dangerous book to read out loud, I get teary eyed just thinking about it
A nice story but quite wordy for reading aloud. I like that it doesn't shy away from using some bigger words, though.
This is a nice story in and of itself, but it is so damn long that young children will be looking for something else to do about 1/3 of the way through.
This story was so beautifully done. I appreciated the simplicity and the artful word play. It was very moving.
Amos, a mouse, decides to set sail in a boat and see the world. But he is shipwrecked and adrift in the ocean with nothing to help him. Suddenly, Boris, the whale, appears.
🐭🐋Los libros ilustrados son una de mis cosas favoritas, pero últimamente solo he leído algunos publicados en los últimos años (a excepción de Dahl o Sendak a los que siempre regreso), así que cuando encontré la ilustración de un barquito que me gustó, y vi que pertenecía a un libro infantil no taaaan conocido y publicado en los 70, me emocioné y quise leerlo.
Las ilustraciones, también del autor y que fueron la razón por la que quise leer el libro, son sencillas pero capturan a la perfección la historia de estos dos amigos.
This book is a tale of an unlikely friendship between a whale and a mouse.
One day, the mouse fulfilled his dream of sailing the ocean.
Boris, the whale, helps him get home by letting him stay on his back during the trip.
Amos the mouse and Boris the whale became fast friends and told each other about themselves.
Boris delivered his friend to the shore of his home and went on his way.
Then, a hurricane washed Boris onto the shore where Amos lived.
Amos and his elephant friends helped Boris get back into the water.
If you just finished reading Benji Davies's The Storm Whale and are looking for another fine picture book about whales, beached and otherwise, you should check out this 1971 Steig classic if you haven't already.
Whereas Davies's picture book might be accused of containing too few words, Steig's book errs in the opposite direction, often bordering on the wordy, but this tale of the friendship between a mouse who wants to be a sailor and the stolid amiable whale he meets while at sea -- likely inspired by Aesop's "The Lion and the Mouse" -- is simultaneously whimsy-laced and poignant.
