https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14495.The_Mind_Parasites
This is reflected in his products: several volumes and many essays of a biographical nature dealing with exceptional people, many of them not ones you'd want in your home--twisted geniuses if you will; a decent biography and review of the work of the American psychologist, Abraham Maslow, the man who brought "peak experience" into our vocabulary; a series of philosophical essays and books about existenialism, about Husserl; works on the occult and extra-sensory perception; fictional and nonfictional studies of criminal genius; innumberable reviews in papers and magazines, often literary reviews carrying philosophical baggage.The Mind Parasites is ostensibly a science fiction novel set in the near future (a future which has already happened, the book having been around a while).
رواية خيال علمي نُشرت عام 1967, فكرة غريبة عن غزو الطفيليات لعقول البشر والسيطرة عليهم تدفع الناس لت
Very much what I imagine the thought process of a paranoid schizophrenic must be - invisible mind parasites that feed on our collective life force - 'their' only weakness: our minds pushed past the limits of individuality into a 'hive' like pattern. Dark and nihilistic - Nietzsche and Poe team up for existential horror.
As time went on, Wilson developed his philosophy into a kind of optimistic branch of existentialism, holding that the next move in human evolution is to develop the mind into being able to experience bouts of quasi-religious awe which he calls "peak experiences" The philosophy is a lot less facile than I'm making it sound - I really recommend readers check out his non-fiction, though it's outside the scope of this review."The Mind Parasites" came about when Wilson criticized the late H P Lovecraft in one of his works, and August Derleth, Lovecraft's posthumous publisher and apologist, made a challenge to Wilson - saying, essentially "If you think Lovecraft was such a crap writer, why don't you do better yourself?" Wilson relished the challenge and set out to do just that.
إلا ان الحصيلة _برأيي أيضًا_ أنه أوصل فكرة تستحق الدراسة وتستحق النظر فيها وتأملهاان الرواية جعلتني اود تجربة ما جربه الدكتور اوستن في الدخول الى اعماق عقله ومحاربة تلك الطفيليات ولازالت الرغبة تتملكني _هذا للعلم_ خاصة وان في الامر فوائد جمّة وبالأخص ايضًا (ولعلكم لن تصدقوا) انه حصل بعد ان اتممت الرواية في احد الايام التي كنت فيها مرهقة للغاية وبين اغفاءة وصحو ودون نيّة مني او تفكير طلّ عليّ كائنان غريبان من بؤبؤ عينيّ وفي لحظتها رنّ هاتفي الغبي فذهب كل شيء وهذا بالضبط بالضبط ما حصل للدكتور اوستن في اول الأمر، لعلّي اتخيل فقط أو أنها اضغاث احلاملكن دعوني اخبركم بشيء مثير وأيضًا مرعب وقريب كل القرب من ما جاء في الكتاب ..
"Man is a continent, but his conscious mind is no larger than a back garden"."I came to realize how much of "success" in the world is due to a mere habit of agressiveness and hard work, and not at all to intelligence"."Man is lazy by nature, and laziness is by no means to be condemned. It means he dislikes inconvenience, and he has created civilization to escape inconvinience; so his laziness has been an important factor in his evolution. But this also means that he prefers to evolve at his own slow and deliberate rate".
it all reads like a newscast, actually.
yet the novel dissolves into a bright but shallow carnival of dated sf, including moon theories, bodiless aliens, and space police a la Space Odyssey, and you feel betrayed by him: he seems to not have thought it through, and played possum from some really good revelation about this rather revolting human condition that only poets have courage and power to transcend, for very brief periods of time.the soviet edition is supplemented with idiotically thoughtful afterword where our "plainclothed literary critics" pretend that the novel is a great specimen of progressive and anti-bourgeois current british literature (although it was published 20 years later than the original), and no less idiotic comments on names and language remarks for those who wish to perfect their english.
I first read The Mind Parasites in the early 1970s, long before I had ever encountered Lovecraft or knew of the Lovecraft mythos.
I have just finished "re-reading" it in a very well performed audiobook format.
But the novel is also a decently creepy horror tale in the first half or so, and many others things as well.
I can think of no other novel that attempts to combine invisible Lovecraftian monsters, self help, optimistic existentialism and outrageous Fortean woo-woo pseudo-science in a single cohesive volume.
Colin Wilson is very skilled at writing intellectual thrillers and this is no exception. It's his riff on a Lovecraftian tale and involves vampiric mind parasites that have been draining the intellectual vitality of humanity for ages. But as Wilson is an inveterate optimist he posits a way out of this vampirism via inner mind work. Very compelling.
"للمرة الأولى يعتريني شعور فظيع بالضعف و الافتقار إلى الاحساس بالأمان و أدركت أن كل شيء موجود في هذا الكون و مسلم بهِ قابل للنقاش، و أن كل شيء يمكن أن يكون مجرد حيلة" يجب أن توضع علامات تحذير للقراء !لا يجب أن نُصدم فجأة بكتاب كهذا !
Probably not as riveting as when I read it as an angst ridden teenager all those years ago, but still an interesting mix of science fiction and philosophy. An interesting story of mind parasites dulling the minds of the the brightest humans, blocking their mental development, and directing them towards suicide. I am reminded of it every time I realize I've just spent two hours scrolling down my Facebook page.
This was a book of its time - 1960s sci-fi where men were men and women were non-existent or completely unimportant. It was an interesting read but grew irritating.
Прекрасна, чудова ідея і концепція. Але: нудно, сухо, публіцистично, беземоційно, зіжмакано, розмито, коряво, розкидано, офіційно. Дуже шкода.
ما الذي يضمن لك أنّ ما تفعله هو رغبتك الفعلية؟ وما الذي يؤكد لك أن كل أفعالك ليست محكومة من قبل أي متحكم بدون وعي منك؟ ثم ما الذي يؤكد لك أنك لا تعيش حلما كبيرًا اسمه الحياة، وأنّ ما تراه من عناصر لتلك لحياة من أشخاص وجمادات، وما تشعر به من حب وفرح وكره وغيرها من المشاعر ما هي إلا أركان لذلك الحلم المنمق.طفيليات العقل رواية خيال علمي من الستينيات تحاول الغوص في عمق تلك الأسئلة، من خلال مجموعة علماء يكتشفون أن البشر محكومون (بلا وعي منهم) من قبل طفيليات تتحكم في العقول، وتسوقها نحو ما تريده هي، وتبديه وكأن البشر هم من أرادوه.
Grāmata it kā no fantastikas plaukta, bet, iespējams, vairāk domāta psihoanalīzes cienītājiem. Grāmata stāsta par netālo nākotni, kas šobrīd jau sakrīt ar tagadni. Daži zinātnieki atklāj, ka jau 200 gadus cilvēces prātus inficē nemateriālas būtnes - apziņas parazīti, kas barojas no mūsu enerģijas un izraisa dažādus destruktīvus procesus cilvēces vēsturē. Patiesībā stāsts ir par būsu prāta apjomu, tā uzbūvi un darbības principiem. Grāmata par prāta tīrību, gribasspēku un ceļu uz augstāku prāta darbības līmeni. Grāmatu ieteicams lasīt ar jau nelielām zināšanām psihoanalīzē vai neiroloģijā. :)
The Mind Parasites is a lovely piece of fiction that stirs up the dust in the already cloudy field of conspiracy theory. Working partly with facts, partly with fringe science and down-right occluded metaphysics, Wilson weaves a story of the awakening of the collective consciousness of mankind. Sort of. Also, it turns out that a lot of H.P. Lovecraft's stories about ancient gods and antedeluvian chambers and beings of indescribable terror were also true. Sort of. I'm not going to say any more. They are watching.
Before I read this book, I thought Colin Wilson was a dick. Now I am convinced. The only reason I'm keeping it is because it will fit nicely amongst my other Lovecraftiana. Also I don't have the one pictured. I have the original printing from Oneiric Press. I got it for 50 cents. Poppin' Tags.
Leggere Colin Wilson vuol dire sempre e solo una cosa: scardinare la mente.
Non uno scifi quindi ma un romanzo della tradizione psichedelica.E I Parassiti della Mente va letto dopo l'Outsider; Gilbert Austin si rende conto di essere "malato in una società che ignora di esserlo", e se i Parassiti sono proiezioni Lovecraftiane (anche lui un Otusider, peccato che Wilson se ne sia reso conto in ritardo) poco importa, perché l'importante è saper osservare, guardare con attenzione, perché la realtà e tutto ciò che la circonda (compresa la mente stessa) può essere "tutta un trucco".
I picked this one up largely because I'd heard it references Tsathoggua the Lovecraftian Toad god and it starts out very lovecraftian indeed with a mysterious suicide and the discovery of an ancient cyclopean city but there for me is where my interest stops - The novel takes an introspective turn and the parasites are of the mind, preventing man's evolution - the ancient city is merely a diversion.
This veers off again at the end into out and out SF and we take a trip into outer space and start messing with the moon's orbit.
An extraordinary book that offers the best of Colin Wilson's characteristically evocative language and peculiar theology, in the form of a thrilling adventure story. There is a lot of truth in this fiction, especially in the earlier chapters. In the later chapters it displays Wilson's intellectualist Gnosticism and echoes of the Nietzschean Superman. Regardless, it's an enjoyable read up until the last page.
Wilson therefore took his beliefs in the untapped powers of the human mind and, I assume, his distaste for post-Romantic pessimism and De Sadian sexual perversion--and the hip '60s offshoots of both--and concocted this tale of parasites that live in our brains like cancer born of frustrated hopes and keep us all from becoming the poet-gods that existential phenomenology could otherwise train us to be.Well, that was interesting indeed.It did remind me a bit of Harlan Ellison's pithy comment that Star Trek had only one plot line: the crew of the Enterprise encounter God. The Mind Parasites is also quite similar to Arthur C.
Weird, but interesting.Did David Icke borrow his idea that malevolent lizard beings live in the moon from Colin Wilson?
However, I AM sure that Wilson's ideas about the moon - aliens living there, the current moon being the sixth in a line of meteors-becoming-the-moon, all previous moons crashing into Earth and bringing humanity to the brink of extinction each time - remain well outside the mainstream.
Our individuality is a kind of eddy in the sea of mind, a reflection of the total identity of the universal humanity.Oh yeah!

REVIEWLOVED IT:Wilson has blended H.P. Lovecraft's dark vision with his own revolutionary philosophy and unique narrative powers to produce a stunning, high-tension story of vaulting imagination.
For over 200 years, mind parasites have been lurking in the deepest layers of human consciousness, feeding on human life force and steadily gaining a foothold on the planet.
Now they threaten humanity's extinction.
They can be fought with one weapon only: the mind, pushed to-and beyond-its limits.
Pushed so far that humans can read each other's thoughts, that the moon can be shifted from its orbit by thought alone.
Pushed so that man can at last join battle with the loathsome parasites on equal terms.
قد تعد هذه الرواية واحدة من قصص الخيال العلمي المحبوكة بإبداع قل نظيره.
ولكن, في الحقيقة هي تمتد إلى أعمق من ذلك بكثير لتغوص إلى أقصى متاهات العقل حيث قلة استطاعوا الوصول.
هذه القلة هم العظماء حقا.
"طفيليات العقل" هي تعبير عن كل ما يبقينا مقيدين في دوامات الإفلاس المعنوي والشعور بالخواء واللاجدوى الذي يعتري كل فرد منا فيجعلنا نوجه كل طاقاتنا إلى الخارج بدل أن نديرها إلى الداخل: العقل, ذلك الكون الفسيح الذي نخشى استكشافه ونخشى الخوض في غياهبه لذا نبقى معلقين بتوافه الأمور اليومية التي تستنفد كل طاقاتنا وتجعلنا بعيدين كل البعد عن استيعاب قدراتنا الحقيقية ومراقبة ذاتنا في سبيل التحرر من سيطرة "الطفيليات".
This book is an intersting work where I think is the author trying to say that there is a danger in thoughtlessness yet so much potential in the world if one could only be free of "mind parasites"(read "laziness" or "conditioning") preventing you from thinking for yourself and how the world could turn catastrophic if everyone was being taken over by mind parasites.
There are some connections made between the mind and body that are interesting, not all free from sexism/racism but still the theories he was expressing were very interesting.
It was a fun science fiction read which made you also reflect on how you are using your brain, or not...
Wilson's first outright sf novel, The Mind Parasites (1967) combines the long temporal perspectives of H P Lovecraft's Cthulhu Mythos with the transcendental solipsism of A E van Vogt and the metabiological pathos of George Bernard Shaw in a tale which suggests that humanity has for aeons been deliberately hampered by quasi-Alien entities and that these shackles of Arrested Development could be cast off; doing so leads to the acquisition of Psi Powers (notably Telepathy and Telekinesis).
This 'novel' is one of my all-time favorite books, and is one that i often recommend. I like to re-read it every couple of years, as it's insightful and thought-provoking, and reminds me that there's more beyond the mundane and trivial in life.On the surface it is a novel, a sort of spoof of H.P. Lovecraft, and I do need to read more Lovecraft... but then it turns into a journey into the mind, opens into philosophy and phenomenology and study of the inner being of each of us.
I first read this novel when I was 18 (49 years ago) and it had a profound effect on me so much that I found myself hiding in the toilet at work just to read another page. I re-read the book last year (2014) and although it had less impact it is still a great book and sowed the seeds for my own writing actvities. If you are interest in the potential of the human mind, then give it a go.
If I had read this book a while ago, I don't think I would have understood what it was really about. There are many layers to it. I found my way to it and found it very interesting.
