https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/318116.Anatomy_of_Criticism
It might take a while to get through and it might require you to convert a lot of Frye's work into shorter notes and diagrammatic notations, just to keep up with the density of the text, but at the end of it you will be exposed to an almost cosmic vision of Literature, comparable to that at the end of Paradiso.
It is worth the effort just for the sheer ambition of the work and for the bit of that ambition that will rub off on you, even if you reject everything else contained here.Only Joyce might be able to teach you about the scope of literature in a more inspiring fashion than this poet-critic.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، نویسندهٔ این کتاب جناب <نورتروپ فرای> از همان ابتدایِ بحث در کتاب، منتقدانِ ادبی را به دو گروه تقسیم میکند، یکی منتقدِ عمومی و دیگری منتقدِ دانشمندمنتقدِ دانشمند کسی است که آثار ادبی را تحلیل کرده و به پژوهش پرداخته و آن را به صورت کتاب و یا مقاله ای جامع، ارائه میدهد... این گروه از منتقدان کسانی هستند که دانشی در خصوصِ انواع سبکِ ادبی و تاریخِ ادبیات دارند و کارشان باید در راستای دانش و به خصوص دانشِ روز باشد و صد البته هیجاناتِ جامعه و رویدادهای پیش آمده نباید در نوشتار
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، نویسندهٔ این کتاب جناب <نورتروپ فرای> از همان ابتدایِ بحث در کتاب، منتقدانِ ادبی را به دو گروه تقسیم میکند، یکی منتقدِ عمومی و دیگری منتقدِ دانشمند‎منتقدِ دانشمند کسی است که آثار ادبی را تحلیل کرده و به پژوهش پرداخته و آن را به صورت کتاب و یا مقاله ای جامع، ارائه میدهد...
ولی از منتقدین دانشمند مشهور میتوانیم از باختین و یا هارولد بلوم و یا نویسندهٔ این کتاب یعنی نورتروپ فرای، نام ببریم‎و امّا منتقد عمومی، همانطور که از عنوانش پیداست، منتقدی است که با نقدِ خویش به افکارِ عمومی سمت و سو میدهد و حتی نقد وی از افکارِ عمومی شکل میگیرد...
The book begins innocently enough; in his “Polemical Introduction,” Frye discusses the critic’s role and the current gaps in literary theory (which, of course, he intends to fill).
I recall feeling engulfed as Frye trotted out one network of schematization after another: modes, symbols, myths, genres, accompanied by an endless march of terminology: high mimetic, low mimetic, phases, mythoi, alazons, sparagmos, anagogical, pharmakos, agon, eiron, etc., etc.
I think the first time I read Frye I felt like the shrinking man standing before the giant grid.
Frye, 20.yüzyılın en önemli edebiyat eleştirmenlerden biri şüphesiz.Özellikle mit eleştirisi, kahramanın yolculuğununa bakışı- arketipler eleştirisi teorileri edebiyat eleştirisine ciddi yön kazandırmış ve aynı zamanda edebiyat eleştirisinin sadece akademik veya belirli bir grup tarafından yapılmasına karşı duruşu, bu alanın geniş bir topluluğa yayılmasını sağlamıştır.Frye eleştiriye edebiyatın ne olduğunu tartışarak modül ilerlemeler içinde başlıyor.
Bir edebiyat eserini okunur ve sanat eseri değerli kılan başlıklar tarihsel ve antropolojik oluşum içinde şiirsel metinlerle birlikte inceliyor.
Bundan sonra kendi oluşturduğu Edebiyat Modları Teorisini 4 makale/deneme içinde inceliyor:a.
Arketipik Eleştiri: Mit Teorisid.Retorik Eleştirisi: Tür Teorisi Her deneme bağımsız olarak okunabileceği gibi sırasıyla okunabilecek akıcılıkta.Kitap benim açımda çok zihin açıcı oldu.
Her şeye rağmen son 2 deneme, gerçekten edebi okumaların incelenmesi konusunda çok güzel bir başlangıç seviyesi oluşturdu benim adıma.
This is the groundbreaking book that officially introduced Jungian archetype theory into the realm of literary criticism.
Jungians should check it out!I will not do any review-spoilers on this one.
As someone who refrained from it for six years due to inadequate education in literature, I'll just give out a (surprisingly) short survival list of literature prerequisites for this book:1) Whatever literature Jung put you into reading.
That should include the Golden Bough, Iliad, Odyssey, Faust, Bible, Greek tragedy and Greek comedy, some other readings in mythology, the more the merrier.2) Milton, Dante, Spencer, some novels, the more the merrier.3) Shakespeare.
A superior display of erudition.Sets out its task in terms reminiscent of Kant's assertion that "philosophy stands in need of a science" in the Critique of Pure Reason: "If criticism exists, it must be an examination of literature in terms of a conceptual framework derivable from an inductive survey of the literary field.
This bit departs from New Criticism by delving into the "affective fallacy," but it's not reception theory proper, as it reduces audience response to the formal categories of the text, rather than carrying out a materialist's inductive survey of actual reception.
These lurch up unexpectedly out of nowhere; and as soon as you come to one of these junctures, you simply plunge right over it back into a bottomless well of words.At the start of each of these essays, Frye seems to follow this pattern: he will begin by taking up a historic or traditional definition or concept--hold it up to the light, turn it this-way-and-that.
The second two essays in the book ('Theory of Myths', & 'Theory of Genres') are given more length and more lucidity.
Many other critics have handled them.The strength of Frye's acumen does come through best in essay #3.
Well, this is pretty dense in a way that books usually aren't these days.
Density aside, the first two essays - on historical criticism and 'symbols,' (which for Frye doesn't really mean, well, symbol) - are pretty good, if overly schematic.
The fourth essay, on genres, is occasionally interesting but also too schematic and way too long.
One thing that's odd is that people say this seems 'dated' thanks to Marxist or feminist or postcolonial theory, or deconstruction.
Frye's aware of all those trends already in 1957 (not counting postco, I guess); and his work isn't dated by deconstruction.
The Polemical Introduction was intriguing but left one wanting to know exactly what he thought the science of criticism would be like.
The first essay, on modes, was a taxonomy by principles (the status of the hero relative to 'us') that didn't seem all that intuitive to me.
And at the end, there seemed little beyond taxonomy.
What this had to do with the goal of explaining the literary phenomena, which I thought, from the Introduction, was the goal, I don't know.
Then, the second essay, began to deal with issues related to the philosophy of language: meaning, reference, etc.
As Frye traces how myth and mode interact, how each literary work and genre can be seen as one element in a total process, his book gives the pleasure of a narrative in which a maddening and chaotic mystery suddenly becomes clear:The four mythoi that we are dealing with, comedy, romance, tragedy, and irony, may now be seen as four aspects of a central unifying myth.
But it is now 2015 as I write these words and the world has changed again, so that now the Anatomy almost feels like both a triumphant summation of centuries of literature and its scholarly criticism as well as a final fanfare before the darkness which was to come.
For we every day sink deeper into a new Dark Age in which all that Frye clearly cherished and believed in is rejected by our modern society ― one bridles at calling it a culture ― as impractical, non-utilitarian and dangerously liberal.
There's the same four set of characters adapted for each (the alazon, eiron, bomolochon, and agroikos [loudmouth, straight man, class clown, and tightass]), adapted for each season; and there's a sequence of six flavors of each season, which follow the modes as outlined in the first essay.4) rhetorical criticism: theory of genrea) drama [...] b) epic [metric recursion] c) fiction [continuity] d) lyric [association]A genre derives its strength from its rhythm, though rhythms mix all the time, and there's no ideal types that exist in the Real World, hombre.
Northrup Frye argues that literary criticism is a way of thinking, defining it thus: "… by criticism I mean the whole work of scholarship and taste concerned with literature which is a part of what is called variously liberal education, culture, or the study of the humanities.
Like mathematics, Frye sees literature as a language, thus the interrelationships take on importance as a way of knowing; he posits metaphor as an equivalent of equations, suggesting that both are tautologies (350).
The relation between symbols can be read through the phases that Frye sees in literature.
Frye writes like a genial, slightly waggish but awesomely learned professor talks. This book should be subtitled, "The Mutations of Storytelling." Easygoing and smoothly narrated next to the nigh-nightmarish Wimsatt & Welleck. Some:"The disadvantage of making the queen-figure the hero's mistress, in anything more than a political sense, is that she spoils his fun with the distressed damsels he meets on his journey, who are often enticingly tied naked to rocks or trees, like Andromeda or Angelica in Aristo."
Although Frye's traditional approach to the criticism of literary texts seems dated now, particularly from the perspective of recent literary theory (feminist criticism, Marxist criticism, post-structuralism, etc.), this text is an impressive attempt at systematizing Western literature according to genres, myths, symbols and modes.
But maybe actually a Copernican metaphor is better here – Frye, like Harold Bloom, and then a bevy of less intelligent and more reactionary late 20th century culture warriors, saw Western literature at the center of something that has been revealed to have no permanent center – human history.
There’s no bringing back the past, but Frye’s system does offer anybody who has more than a beach reader’s interest in Western literature some clever and useful ways to think about the forms it has taken and the techniques that have been applied in it from pre-history to the 20th century modernists, anyway.
I have to admit thAt I found this book really tough to read and understand.
Northrop references so many books in this to make his point based around art and literature mainly that it's hard to keep up at times.
I have probably ready only 25 % of the books he is referring to.
The book does make some excellent points around poetry and civilisation and language and culture which I found immensely interesting but on the whole I had to skim read large parts of the book as it was way too intellectuall for me.
Northrup Frye argues that literary criticism is a way of thinking, defining it thus: "… by criticism I mean the whole work of scholarship and taste concerned with literature which is a part of what is called variously liberal education, culture, or the study of the humanities.
Like mathematics, Frye sees literature as a language, thus the interrelationships take on importance as a way of knowing; he posits metaphor as an equivalent of equations, suggesting that both are tautologies (350).
The relation between symbols can be read through the phases that Frye sees in literature.
Speaking of the pastoral Lycidas, Frye quips:In short, we can get a whole liberal education simply by picking up one conventional poem and following its archetypes as they stretch out into the rest of literature.
The fascinating analogy between literature and mathematics cuts through the grandiosity of socio-cultural proselytizing the critic seems glad to dispose of here, brings the book to its close, and presumably picks up in his later work The Great Code, which I'm eager to look forward to reading awhile, too.And now, without further ado, three fun facts about Frye and I:1.
How to describe reading this great classic of mid 20th century literary criticism?
It's the sort of book that completely changes the way you read for the rest of your life.
When I first had to read Frye it was freshman year and I was only just turning 17, totally unprepared for the experience.
My favorite English professor gave us Fearful Symmetry to read while we were studying Blake.
Now I'm 72 and have lived enough, read enough, and puzzled enough to get at least some of what he has to say.
Read it.
Da Introduzione polemica:"Un pubblico che cerchi di fare a meno della critica, e sostenga di sapere che cosa desideri ed ami, fa violenza alle arti e perde la sua memoria culturale" p.
11"C'è un altro motivo che giustifica l'esistenza della critica: questa può parlare, mentre tutte le arti sono mute.
Nella pittura, nella scrittura e nella musica è abbastanza facile vedere che l'arte emerge, ma non può dire nulla.
E per quanto ciò sembri voler dire che il poeta è muto o privo di parola, esiste un senso più alto per cui le poesie sono silezione come statue: la poesia uso disinteressato della parola" p.
Amazing, erudite, a little daft, a vast taxonomy of the various genres and modes of literature, in Frye's conception ultimately derived from myths and the cycle of the seasons. One doesn't have to fully believe Frye's taxonomy to still be enriched by thinking about literature as a mix of mythic patterns and modes. This is a tough mountain to climb though, only read through it at a second attempt.
There were some interesting bits in here about the nature of tragedy and the forms of narrative. It was hindered by Frye's tendency to fall into that whole grocery-list tactic of showing his erudition. "Here's a thousand references when I only needed one to make my point."
As with most "literary theory" this is confused jibber jabber masquerading as some sort of profundity.Frye wrote a lot of fine books - this isn't one of them.
gg no reIf every blogging hack read this before writing their definitive review of a work equating preference with quality, it'd be a better world. Yes, I mean you.
Human action (praxis) is primarily imitated by histories, or verbal structures that describes specific and particular actions.
A mythos is a secondary imitation of an action, which means, not that it is at two removes from reality, but that it describes typical actions, being more philosophical than history.
Reading from left to right, this threefold structure divides human faculties into will, feeling, and reason.

You see this primarily in his anagogic notion of literature: the point where the world no longer contains our literary words but reverses so that our words recreate the world.
Creation and Recreation gets to his anagogic purpose of literature in a far more succinct fashion and his Great Code or Double Vision talk about the religious dimension a lot better than this book.
For instance, the Christian Bible or stories from certain periods of time probably contains literature that fit into a lot of different categories, but he places them in only one.
Impossible for me to rate this book because, as a work of literary criticism, it's immensely flawed.
In the comedy-romance-tragedy-irony cycle, every one, according to him, has six phases.
Is it not possible that some have more phases than others?
(Not to mention that he seems to think that reading a lot of literature lets you fathom the mind of the author in writing it, and reveals only that he's not capable of writing fiction, but in my experience, that, alas, is virtually universal among literary critics who don't write fiction themselves.)on the other hand, it's punctuated with descriptions of symbols and setting and plots that make me want to rip them off and write it myself.
After some odd months of reading this book, I finally finished it.
I was bombarded by the task of memorizing some of the terminology.
Next year, I will have to revisit this book again.
I found my mind wandering into so many different avenues during my read that I was too distracted.
In a word this book is quite "DENSE." It is filled with so much information that my brain couldn't really process all of the information as well as I would have liked too.
I hesitated on giving it a perfect score, solely because I wanted to see how I felt about it next year.
