https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320167.The_Last_Precinct
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to The Last Precinct, the 11th book in the "Kay Scarpetta" mystery thriller series, written in 2000 by Patricia Cornwell. I really enjoyed this book as the complexity and the psychology of the killer was top-notch. Each chapter builds on the last, and in some ways, these books keep revisiting decisions and clues from previous book... so it gets quite explosive and intense. In this one, Scarpetta needs a break from the last case where she was batterd and bruised. B
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars to The Last Precinct, the 11th book in the "Kay Scarpetta" mystery thriller series, written in 2000 by Patricia Cornwell.
I really enjoyed this book as the complexity and the psychology of the killer was top-notch.
Jamie Berger, the DA gets more involved, and we start this love/hate relationship with all the characters.
This is definitely not a stand-alone book to read, you need to have read the rest of the series.
tho it started to go down hill again afterwards in future books.
If you enjoy the series, you will love this book.
In this 11th book in the 'Kay Scarpetta' series, the medical examiner is dealing with a lot of personal problems while investigating several murders.
*****As the book opens Dr. Kay Scarpetta, Virginia's Chief Medical Examiner, has maimed the deformed serial killer Jean-Baptiste Chandonne ('the werewolf') in self-defense.
The book's best parts revolve around the investigation of a couple of bizarre torture murders that are labeled hate crimes and, towards the end, a young boy's suicide.
The book is okay but not one of the best in the series.You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot....
Current rating: 3.5, but may change after re-read.I can't say much about how I liked the novel, since I read pre-GR times. It was a Bookcrossing book I found where I live, which I then took with me while I traveled, so that copy was left on Heathrow Airport as I came back from my trip. A pretty thick read, which I stubbornly got through fast enough, so I could leave it far away enough. XDI will probably reread it when I'll read the series in order, so proper review then :)
but there r corrupt cops, a link to the chandonne family in france in illicit dealings, more deaths and a similar murder of a woman in new york a female prosecutor talks thru all the scenes with kay but is intent to get the werewolf tried in new york which means kay and the other 2 women will not be vindicated kay must fight to clear her name against what seem impossible odds but this is one lady - complete with niece!
Continuing from Black Notice-the previous chapter, this book tells nothing, but the dark and gore thoughts of Kay. No logic in the plot.
Suddenly kay is a suspect, and everything once again turns around Benton, Marino is doing nothing but just comes and drinks beer, too much unbeleivable emotion, Lucy suddenly is rich...I stop here !
The repeated use of Villans even they are dead does not make it a twist, but unbeleivable.Positive - I read Scarpetta series just to know what happens to investigations in the pathological point of view.
Just like in black notice nothing is clear about the Villan, and in this book its about Marino's son and ofcorse the Last Precint itself.
The therapy is only a larger piece of vomit about how she never cries and was never so scared before and all those lies.Towards the third quarter there are suddenly three new serial killings, and thanks to Cornwell's illogical and insane splitting up of scenes into chapters, I can drag myself from one to the next by telling myself "it's only a little step, look, just 4 more pages" again and again.
If not even Kay's constant crying could prove her a liar, this purely emotional non-trial should go counter against all her claims of factual integrity.And the two "new" serial killers disappeared for no good reason without a trace, so this is STILL not the end of that idiotic "werewolf" thread either.
In her most explosive novel in the series to date, Cornwell picks up the story where her previous novel ends, literally hours thereafter.
With Scarpetta incapacitated and the killer recently handled, Cornwell begins spinning the story and her characters into a deeper and more daunting web than she’d tried in novels past.
When crimes outside Richmond come to light, the entire investigation into the Werewolf killer takes a spin the reader will surely not see coming.
Stellar plots and sensational thrills from beginning to the last period.Cornwell has surely outdone herself here and knows how to inject new ideas into her already developed storylines and characters.
So this is the lazy version which means mostly spoilers, sorry.What I can say is that this book starts immediately after the last one, with only a 12 hour turn around.
I can't believe how much time we spent talking about Kay's feelings, and she is still mourning Benton.
There is a lot of questions about Kay's sexuality, and I feel like there is a lot unexplained, as to why everyone is out to get Kay. I mean really, she's not that important.(view spoiler)[ I really called a lot of the Talley stuff in my last review.
3 1/2 stars.
My 1st Patricia Cornwell novel and I’m an instant fan.
When I picked it up I didn't realize it was #11 in a series; not a problem at all – I guess she writes each novel so they work as stand-alones.
The main character in the series is Kay Scarpetta, a highly competent medical forensic specialist.
The Last Precinct finds her hot on the trail of a truly dastardly villain by the name of ‘The French Werewolf’.
It’s got a terrific supporting cast including her gay niece Julie, the slovenly detective Marino and an aging Nazi sympathizer.
Cornwell knows her stuff; this is a really decent crime-thriller.
When a serial killer attempts to murder her she is caught up in a web of circunstancial evidence that implicates her in murder and complicity in various rather henos crimes.She is asked to confront what is an all too common reality, that the burden of proof is on the victim to establish that she is not guilty.
As we are carefully led through an intricate web of evidence, including a good deal of blood and guts on the examiner's table, ( we may well ask...
I'm going to be fare and I'm NOT going to rate it because I'm not reading the full book.
Not as exciting or full of suspense the previous book (book #10, this is book #11).
Seeing as to how I'd read the previous book and this being book #11, again not sure why there was so much extensive recap.
-I wanted books within the mystery genre because I wanted some excitement and I found myself pushing to read it and I don't want to do this.
That being said.
Once again, I've not said negative or positive about his..
I just choose not to read it.
#11 in the Kay Scarpetta series.
The final series entry with Scarpetta in the position of Virginia's chief medical examiner is firmly starting the decline from a readable series of medico/legal thrillers to a morass of melodrama.Kay Scarpetta, Virginia's chief medical examiner has plenty of reason to be upset.
She's reeling from the aftershock of Chandonne's murderous attack on her; she mightily misses her slain FBI agent/lover Dan Belson; she's learned that her gay niece, Lucy, is quitting law enforcement for a private PI firm called the Last Precinct - and it's Christmas time.
For a book where nothing happens this is a riveting read. I suppose no-one is likely to come this book without having read a significant proportion of the previous 10 books in the Scarpetta series and as such basing the novel looking back at previous events is not a problem provided it is well written which it is without a doubt. Also the characters seem a little less abrasive than usual though Marino is perhaps becoming a bit of a caricature. It will be interesting to see where she goes from here in Blowfly.

And I'm not familiar with the role her character plays in solving crimes - it seems remarkably similar to that old TV show "Quincy M.D."I nearly put the book down because the results seemed so obvious, but was determined to slog through - only to discover that yes, indeed, Dr. Scarpetta's feeling of foreboding were due to what I expected - probably I've watched way too much "Law & Order." And although I didn't guess one of the guilty parties, I was suspicious, and I would have had a search warrant on my main suspect days before our climatic story end.
I hated these villains in Black Notice and I still do.
In this book we get to examine some of Kay's vulnerabilities as she talks through her grief and anger with her friend, psychologist Anna.
Kay is a character that I want to love, but often hate because she is too perfect and too egotistical.
I like her more after this volume than I did in the last.
We also learn about Marino's son which is something I hope will be a part of his story in future volumes.
tlp sounds promisingmy copy is the pits
Black Notice was the first "new" read in the series for me and now The Last Precinct, I noticed that reading the books right after each other without any time between them gives you a different perspective on the series.
The Last Precinct is definitely a deviation from the first 10 books in the series, there is a lot of soul searching and insightful dialog, there is much more "down time" or character development, and it brings Kay back into the forefront as a person with a heart and soul, albeit one that is fractured and breaking even if she won't admit it.
In the book preceding this one, Black Notice, I thought that the werewolf serial killer was the creepiest thing ever.
In The Last Precinct, the werewolf killer is back, but seems much more pathetic this time.
He has lost his mystery.There are so many double crosses and false identities in this book, that it is hard to keep them all straight.
I feel her point would be better made if the characters were proudly gay and female, and doing their best at whatever jobs they choose, without constantly comment on how they are mistreated.For me, this book was just ok.
Probably smart to read the book that comes before this one, "Black Notice." It picks up from there, but events are explained throughout the book so you may not have to read Black Notice if you don't want to, but it was a great book.
This book was not as good, but I still gave it five stars because I couldn't put it down.
Slow to start but so much changes for the characters in this book that I could not wait to start the next Scarpetta novel.
Through out the book I couldn't help but feel sorry for Scarpetta.
I don't really like reading thrillers or horror books or crime books but I enjoy Kay Scarpetta novels a lot.
They always have something different in them than the usual crime scenes - they have something different.This book was once again about one maniac person - it seems to be like that in every Kay Scarpetta book which makes them interesting, the maniacs are always different.
Somehow it's amazing how Cornwell can create a great book with a great plot and still give some remaining answers after two or three books!These Kay Scarpetta novels are definitely worth reading.
WEEK 9WORD: CHOPBONUS: CLOUDSMY LETTER: P/C - for author Patricia CornwellBook: The Last Precinct by Patricia CornwellFinished: May 3, 2013Rating & Book Review: 3 stars - Better than the last few in the series by far. The ending actually has me excited to see what happens next. BONUS WORDSChop - page 71 - I lay the onion slices flat and begin to chop.Clouds - page 105 - The tops of buildings in the downtown skyline have vanished in clouds, the air thick with snow.
It was all about Kay whining about how crazy everything in the book was making her and how she was trying to control her feelings over Benton's death.
I kinda wanted to say grow up Kay. You aren't the first person who has lost someone they love.
But the last 50 pages did redeem the book with much action and got the answer out that I knew was coming and left the ending open for further books to look at this as only Patricia Cornwell knows how to do.
This book starts out fast but at times it dragged in places. Overall, I liked the book. Drop the couple slow parts and it is a very fascinating story without giving any spoiler info. Unfortunately, I did not read this one in chronological order. I read her next book when I realize some important things happened in Scarpetta's life that I did know happened. Actually, pretty crucial events which is when I realized I hadn't read this book. After the first several Scapetta books, one really has to read them in order. I would recommend this to any Scarpetta fans.
Blog | Reviews | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
Men kan er echt niet onderuit. Dit boek kan je niet begrijpen zonder de vorige in de Kay Scarpetta reeks gelezen te hebben. In feite is geen enkel boek van deze serie losstaand te lezen. Gelukkig ben ik braaf aan boek 1 begonnen om nu al tot hier te komen. Wat ik tof vind, is dat je op den duur een band krijgt met de personages. Je kan ze als het ware zo visualiseren. Wat me stoort, is de ietwat langdradige schrijfstijl. Toch blijft het spannend genoeg om verder te lezen dus op naar boek 12!
This is the first Kay Scarpetta book I haven't really liked. She comes across as petty, self-centered and well, bitchy. I understand that the plot line has her out of her element, so those qualities that are not what's expected fit the circumstance, but by the end of the book I was kind of done with her, and wished she would get her comeuppance. Bit of a disappointment.
As always a Great Read, Love the Scarpetta series. Full of was it this person or that, and no they couldn't of done it, it must be the other person or was it, sometimes getting who is quicker than others. I very often get into my own little argument with me telling me what's what and why.
I really have come to despise Cornwell's Lucy character. This book does nothing to dissuade my desire to kick the crap out of this immature, whiny, unlikeable personification of Cornwell's alter-ego.
A continuation of the Loup Garou storyline, but with less action. Getting a little tired of Kay Scarpetta's moaning and groaning about her lot in life. Seemed like this one took me forever to read.
