https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25895524-red-sister
I just reread this book again today in preparation for starting book 2, and it is just as good as the first time :) It is important, when killing a nun, to ensure that you bring an army of sufficient size. For Sister Thorn of the Sweet Mercy Convent, Lano Tacsis brought two hundred men. Man, what a hook.This is classic Mark Lawrence in that it's extremely violent, unflinchingly bloody, and gives no fucks, which may be bad for anyone who isn't really fond of brutality involving children (seriousl
This book is kind of like that, only little Nona is 8 years old and is entering a very interesting convent to learn to kill, after having already killed someone at her young age.
It is highly complex and remarkably imagined.Nona is our main character, an orphaned child sold for the potential of power in her blood; through some...complications, she ended up being almost hanged for murder until she is brought to Sweet Mercy's Convent for Young Girls.
STOP PRESS Red Sister won the judges' vote for best fantasy of 2017 on the Booktubes SFF Awards!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RwuSH...-- Red Sister has a new cover!
Revealed below:http://fantasy-faction.com/2017/red-s...Book 2, Grey Sister, is out!
My first published book *not* in the first person.STOP PRESS!
Library Journal gave Red Sister this starred review.“In this stunning, action-filled series launch, Lawrence (“Broken Empire” trilogy) establishes a fantastic world in which religion and politics are sharp as swords, with magic and might held in the hands of wonderful and dangerous women.”STOP PRESS!
This is no pretty, flowery tale, but one of vastly different people struggling to survive."Check out the reader art that has already appeared for Red Sister!http://mark---lawrence.blogspot.co.uk...The trilogy is now written.
(4.5) I was craving a good fantasy book and this was perfect for it!School setting, fun magic system, badass nuns?! YES!!Loved the characters, the world (although I need to know more!), the magic system, the story... I need the second book ASAP!Totally recommend :D
Do not mess with these nuns . . .  It is important, when killing a nun, to ensure that you bring an army of sufficient size. For Sister Thorn of Sweet Mercy Convent Lano Tacsis brought two hundred men  No child truly believes they will be hanged. Even on the gallows platform with the rope scratching at their wrists and the shadow of the noose upon their face they know that someone will step forward, a mother, a father returned from some long absence, a king dispensing justice . . . someone. Few
It is important, when killing a nun, to ensure that you bring an army of sufficient size.
First off you must know there are a bunch of jerk holes in this book.
Children being killed for whatever stupid reason.
Nona was about to be hanged but she was saved by one of the sisters and carted off to the nun school.
and you will carry those lessons into Grey Class where I will put weapons in your hands and teach you what it is to be a Red Sister.
because I don't feel like it and spoilers and you can read the book.
I've been a fan of Mark Lawrence's gritty 'grimdark' fantasy novels for a long while now, but I think Red Sister may be my favorite.
The world of Abeth orbits a slowly dying sun.
As a result, most of the world is encased in ice except for an ever-shrinking corridor along the equator, where humanity is squeezed together, fighting for survival.
It's a world in which magic and science co-mingle.
Nona is taken in, and her training begins .
Fabulous, in-depth world building, great characters, and as always with Lawrence, plotting that is fresh and unpredictable.
For Sister Thorn of the Sweet Mercy Convent Lano Tacsis brought two hundred men"The nunnery is reminiscent of the magic schools such as those created within The Kingkiller Chronicles and A Wizard of Earthsea.
What isn't similar to our world is that the novices become trained in extreme fighting (using fists, knives and throwing stars), taught about poisons and other skills that readers would describe as magical.
Nona is of course, in an educational environment and as she learns about the magic, possibilities, poisons and histories of the world, then we as readers learn it also.
Ah, this is going to be a hard book to review. I have a lot of mixed feelings about Lawrence's latest work and I'm going to try and organize my thoughts as best I can.What I love most about Lawrence's writing is the fact he's - to be frank - dramatic as fuck. He knows how to create a nail-biting, bloody, on-the-edge-of-your-seat kind of scene. Red Sister opens with an army coming to kill a nun: It is important, when killing a nun, to ensure that you bring an army of sufficient size. For Sister T
I have a lot of mixed feelings about Lawrence's latest work and I'm going to try and organize my thoughts as best I can.What I love most about Lawrence's writing is the fact he's - to be frank - dramatic as fuck.
Red Sister opens with an army coming to kill a nun:
And, hey, it's almost like the four Hogwarts houses because here the girls train to become either Red Sisters, Grey Sisters, Holy Sisters or Holy Witches.The beginning and end of the book are awesome.
The more I learned about the world and magic system, the more excited I got to explore it further in the next book.
Who knows what sort of training they've had or weapons they're hiding under those habits?!You can never be too cautious with those religious types...So, yeah this is basically a story that centers around a little girl with supernatural Wolverine claws who's trying to find her place in the world.
Make no mistake, this kid is a vicious killer.And I loved her so much!Ok, I can see why some people might want to compare the convent to Hogwarts, but...no.
I mean, yes there are kids being trained in a 'school setting' to use different forms of magic, there are friendships and rivalries, and there is a prophecy about a Chosen One who will save the day.
ARC provided by Penguin Random House in exchange for an honest review.  “A book is as dangerous as any journey you might take. The person who closes the back cover may not be the same one that opened the front one.”  This story surrounds a young girl, given away by her mother and village after a frightful night. Yet, even being given away, our young protagonist, Nona, proves that there will always be room in your heart to love. The children that are given away to be sold are worth as much as wha
This story surrounds a young girl, given away by her mother and village after a frightful night.
Yet, even being given away, our young protagonist, Nona, proves that there will always be room in your heart to love.
Unfortunately, Nona is harboring secrets that are constantly making her question her worth, no matter what's in her blood.
➽ Holy Class - Ages 17-19 typically.In ten years, Nona will be educated and taught everything she needs to know in the ways of blade and fist while becoming a Red Sister, but there are going to be many hurdles in her way.
I had never even slightly considered that there might be a fantasy world out there toppling that of Τhe Final Empire, and most definitely, I had never thought that i could love a book more than The Night Angel.
Nona, a young girl of eight, orphaned by her father and abandoned by her mother, is waiting her turn on the gallows.
But Nona isn't a simple girl.
The world-building is delicate and refined.
Although most of the story takes place inside the convent, the world is explored through flashbacks and tales.
Now now, don’t come into this thinking you’re going to find some explicit scenes, you won’t but maybe in the future sequels and I’m interested to know how the relationships between the characters will develop in the future.Picture: Yumie from the anime Hellsing Ultimate (The kind of Sisters/Nuns you’ll find in the book.)You’ll see the Sisters obliterate their enemies to shame regardless of their gender, mostly men but 90% of the few men in this book are either despicable, forgettable, or a coward so they kinda deserved it.I must state one additional thing, I’ve heard some complaint from readers about these two question: “Why won’t the characters in high fantasy ever bathe?” and “why won’t the female characters showed any sign of having menstruation?
Sale Alert!!!: 05Jun18 This is the Audible Daily Deal. If you don't have it pick it up $5.95I WON!!!!The amazing Mark Lawrence is sending me a signed copy of this. I AM SO EXCITED!!!I won it and now I've finally read in since Grey Sister comes out shortly. Full Review To Come but NONA is awesome.
And Nona is hiding secrets but she's doing right by her friends.
And she does, trust me.Even though the training section may feel too long at times (probably more as a result of just how good the action segments were than anything lacking in these bits), the writing was as incredible as ever, and the last two sections were so blindingly brilliant I had to read them twice over: first time in a desperate rush to get to the end and see what happens, second time to savour the details.
Just thinking over all the highlights to write this review is making me feel nervy and over excited, I can't sit still.
Any book that leaves you that way deserves the full five stars.ARC offered by the author.
So if you tried to read PRINCE OF THORNS and DNFed it b/c you couldn't tolerate that little shit of an MC (I've been assured that he gets better around 40%, but I haven't personally made that determination for myself), now's your chance to give Lawrence another shot.Second of all, even after reading through it again when I finished the book, I still found the prologue to be absolutely baffling.
Or something happens to speed the process?And WHAT IF:The Earth wasn't consumed along with Mercury and Venus?Would science have developed to the point of being able to create and implement a giant mirror (where the moon used to be) to reflect and amplify the sun's diminished light?Would we genetically alter humans to give them a better chance of survival in the new catastrophic conditions?
4.5 stars!
Originally reviewed at Bookwraiths.My rating is 2.5 stars.Red Sister is a novel which has (rightly so, in my opinion) been dubbed the new Harry Potter for young adults.
Mark Lawrence taking great pains to create a close knit community of young and old women bound together by their order and their emotional ties; massive page time devoted to the tough training and wise teachings the characters receive.
All that rescues Nona from death the timely intervention of a nun from the Covenant of Sweet Mercy: a monastery devoted to training women to be the most feared warriors in the world.Once in her new home, Nona quickly meets and befriends a host of girls her own age; people whom she grows to care about in different ways.
Full review now up!4/5  "Or burn bright, take up arms, and fight the bitch.”   This ARC was provided by NetGallery in exchange for an honest review. Release date in Australia is 6th of April 2017I went into Red Sister with apprehension, because I didn't love this authors other series Broken Empire. So automatically knowing this was a YA I thought I'd hate it. However I got it completely wrong, I actually really enjoyed reading this book and it was actually a fantastic coming of age, YA book. I h
I honestly thought Mark would have struggled transitioning from grimdark and adult fantasy to a YA novel, however the transition was smooth and it was the best book I've read by him yet.
I get that the characters needed that training to develop, however it was kinda boring and I could have done without half the shit that I read, but that's just me and some people would have loved it because it was realistic and definitely had the usual things that come with training in a school eg bullying, making friends, learning skills etc.
It's got a fairly complex "magic system" with a lot of potential.
This isn't frivolous, jovial high fantasy, but there is occasional humor presented in a mostly natural, unforced way.
(view spoiler)[Honestly, I was kind of hoping Hessa would turn out the be the chosen one.
There are a few other classic elements of magic schools and high fantasy in general but they're mostly done in a way that isn't cliche or stock.Mark Lawrence writes very well.
He does a good job balancing the dark story with some genuinely likable, almost warm, elements.
This is probably the most excited I've been about high fantasy in a while.
Your death has not been waiting for your arrival at the appointed hour: it has, for all the years of your life, been racing towards you with the fierce velocity of time's arrow. It cannot be evaded, it cannot be bargained with, deflected or placated. All that is given to you is the choice: meet it with open eyes and peace in your heart, go gentle to your reward. Or burn bright, take up arms, and fight the bitch.” I'm not going to quote the opening lines as literally everyone else has but suffic
For 9 months I only read novels and watched tv shows/ films where the MC was female.
I gave up my hard rule but I found that I don't have a lot of time anymore for books that have a male MC, three male supporting characters and one female love interest.
I have said in reviews of Lawrence's other books that despite all the usual grim dark rape bullshit he does write round female characters.
Like previous novels, Lawrence plays around with a lot of familiar tropes- unreliable narrator, time jumps to build tension, etc.
I ADORE dark epic fantasy.)Basically this book has a checklist of all that is awesome:• assassin nuns who have no chill• will smite the patriarchy if needed and have 0% regrets• trains young girls to be warriors, with and without blades• also features 97% female characters• SO MANY FEMALE CHARACTERS IT'S JUST AMAZING AND EXCEPTIONAL• also female friendships!
Reread coming up later???SMOL LIST OF QUIBBLES:• it was pretty slow• lack of sass• lots of characters and I was a little fuddled• not nearly as dark as I'd hoped it was going to be with more training over, like, nuns doing badass things (although we got that in the end)ALL IN ALL: this was a powerful series starter of badass nuns with knives and magic!
~ 22 April 2018 ~Started Grey Sister, and even though there was a nice recap to start off with, I just couldn't remember enough of the tiny details of the first book. So, grabbed the first one again and reread done and dusted now. Still awesome.4.5 Stars!You remember when you were a tiny little girl and did very bad things and because of that found yourself in a convent being trained as a nun specializing in the deadly arts? Yeah, same thing happens to Nona, the star of this story. ;) "It is imp
Still awesome.4.5 Stars!You remember when you were a tiny little girl and did very bad things and because of that found yourself in a convent being trained as a nun specializing in the deadly arts?
Big time.I mean, badass assassin nuns being trained at a convent which is essentially a school for the gifted who are taught to become masterful practitioners of fighting and magic and all things stabby?!?!?
ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.Note: I upgraded my rating to 5 because it's been days since I finished this book and the story, the atmosphere and Nona are still with me.
Red Sister takes place in an entirely new world so you are safe to start with this one if you want to discover Lawrence's work !
This gorgeous art by Tomasz Jedruszek was shared by Lawrence's publisher as a Princess of Thorn inspiration and inspired Mark to write Nona and this new series !
ConclusionThis is my favorite Mark Lawrence book so far !
Via a third person narrative we follow the exploits of village outcast Nona who finds herself rescued from the gallows at a young age to be raised and educated as a nun in service to the Church of the Ancestor.
Nona, being mostly of the slightly built but remarkably swift ‘Hunska’ line with a smattering of magical ‘Marjal’ blood, is destined to be a warrior nun, or ‘Red Sister’.
This restricted setting focuses the narrative on Nona’s emotional growth and her relationships with the other novices.
my first two reactions to this book were basically→so it's  badass assassin nuns  and some of the girls are not straight? bring it on→I know right i didn't think i'd ever actually get to this eitherand I fully admit that this book has a badass beginning:  Nona thought of Raymel Tacsis lying in his father’s halls surrounded by Academy men sweating to keep him from death. Saida was dead - Nona had seen her feet poking beneath the seat in the prison yard, their wrappings still stained with Raymel’s
bring it on→I know right i didn't think i'd ever actually get to this eitherand I fully admit that this book has a badass beginning:
Saida was dead - Nona had seen her feet poking beneath the seat in the prison yard, their wrappings still stained with Raymel’s blood.
It felt as if this book were depending on my interest in a fantasy series to enjoy this, and that just didn't come.
I am 45 fucking percent through this 450-page book and I am so bored by everything and you know what, I don’t care.
I’d heard a lot about this author’s Broken Empire Trilogy, and much of the hearsay led me to believe I wouldn’t enjoy those books because of difficult subject-matter.
Watching her find a place in this convent and become a cherished member was easily my favorite part of Red Sister – so profound!
But thankfully it wasn’t too dark, as some of his other works are rumored to be (which I’m sure are still good books, as lots of people really like them.
It’s definitely worth your time.Thank you, Mark Lawrence, for the opportunity to read and review Red Sister.
I'm not the same person when I finished this book, that's for sure.
For one thing, I think that 8-year old's shouldn't talk like this:(She's telling a story to her friends)The light filtered down, slow at first, making the impenetrable gloom penetrable once more, recreating the forest around me, resolving monstrosities into chance alignment of unconnected branches.Really?
You gonna play us like that?Fine.Moving on.The other thing this book does is go on and on and on about shit.
I like ice.
Ask yourself how you are feeling about killer kids wearing nun costumes on an ice planet and you will get your answer.Watch out!
There are other differences as well, like the fact the story is told in the third person, follows a protagonist who is a young girl, and—at least to my eye—does not feel as dark as Lawrence’s previous works.The book introduces us to the icebound world of Abeth, populated by people who descend from four main “tribes”: the Gerant, distinguished by their great size and strength; the Hunska, dark-eyed and dark haired, capable of great speed; the Marjal, who possess the ability to tap into the lesser magics; and finally the Quantal, who are gifted with the ability to work greater magics and enter a state known as “walking the Path”.
Red Sister's Nona bucks the trend: she is both realistic in her limitations and relatable in her vision of this strange and often pitiless world.
And Nona is not the only fleshed-out and surprising character here.Thematically,  Red Sister wrestles with the question of how one goes about defining oneself in a culture that is quick to script and slow to revise.
Lawrence has created an iconic world that is not lacking in strangeness or wonder.
"Choose carefully, Nona. Let the Path lead you to a name."Nona opened her mouth. "Cage," she said. "Let them call me Cage." Red Sister is what you get what you combine Arya's arc from Game of Thrones with Harry Potter.There's stabbing and friendship. Magic and religion. Illicit potions and assassin lessons. Red herring villains and badass mentors. A "Chosen One" and prophecies.You'll notice I put quotation marks around "Chosen One" because it's not what it seems. Everyone thinks Nona is the Cho
This entire book is basically me getting hit in the face with curveballs, from the moment I noted the teenage-ish cover model and then discovered Nona is under twelve years old throughout the whole book.
Except for sporadic chapters from the future (present?), we mainly track Nona's childhood in the village to her life in the Convent.One of those curveballs is Ara. Beautiful, rich, and skilled, she's despised by Nona from the very beginning.
"Ara's crimes appeared to be confined to being beautiful, being born rich and bring the Chosen One. Everything else, Nona realized, was something given to her by Clera or something assumed."
If I was someone else, someone who really enjoyed a lot and a lot of YA school stuff, then I'd probably go ga-ga over this.As it is, I enjoyed the writing and the developments, albeit slow developments, of the story.Sure, it's awesome that it's a school of assassin nuns and the Ancestors and the hints of high-tech and moving moons and all that stuff is pretty cool, but it wasn't Harry Potter and there wasn't a lot of other things going on.
