https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15753740-the-storyteller
Over time an unlikely friendship grows between her and an elderly customer in the store – Joseph Weber.
It is a privilege to read it; an honour to remember those whose lives were abruptly terminated in such terrible circumstances.
It adds to the richness of the book, and it weaves the story of her grandmother and Joseph Weber together.This is not an easy book to read, simply from the subject matter.
And yet Jodi Picoult’s arresting and easy style of writing means the book will keep you riveted and make you think in the end....
The Weapons an author has at her disposal are flawed. There are words that feel shapeless and overused. Love, for example. I could write the word love a thousand times and it would mean a thousand different things to different readers. What is the point of trying to put down on paper emotions that are too complex, too huge, too overwhelming to be confined by an alphabet?Love isn't the only word that fails.Hate does, too.War.And hope. Oh, yes, hope.So you see, this is why I never told my story.
I could write the word love a thousand times and it would mean a thousand different things to different readers.
Oh, yes, hope.So you see, this is why I never told my story.If you lived through it, you already know there are no words that will ever come close to describing it.And if you didn't, you will never understand.
Yet, as the above passage from the book describes, some ideas and emotions simply cannot be put into words.
I feel that this book is one of them.
Following an accident that maimed half her face, Sage suffers from very low self-esteem, lives and works like a recluse and settles for being some guy's mistress.Had I not read the blurb, I would have assumed that I was reading one of those chick-lit stories where an insecure girl with too much emotional baggage meets a guy who loves her for who she is.400 pages later, that is EXACTLY what The Storyteller turned out to be.What a bummer.I'm not saying that The Storyteller doesn't talk about the Holocaust or doesn't do justice to it.
But Holocaust stories need to either be meticulously researched (or you get people complaining about historical errors) or it has to be absolutely emotionally honest, which is why I suggest Zusack.This is because he is able to communicate the fear, uncertainty, moral reactions and other emotions his characters feel going through the events of the Second World War - but the key difference is that he does this by showing, not telling, the reader what his characters are feeling.
I have not loved all of Picoult's books but have always respected the determination and marketing savvy she has shown since she began her career.
So what did I think of her latest?The Storyteller is told in much the same way as many of Picoult's stories, using narrator viewpoint to lay it out.
The Storyteller is one of those books that is extremely hard to talk about without spoilers.
I hope Jodi Picoult decides to write more in the historical fiction genre rather than "pulled from the headlines" as I think she shines here.
Yet her story of the baker's daughter, the upior, and people having the potential to love and hate does not have an ending; as a story within a story, the upior's story is not written in black and white and it is up to the reader to create their own ending.The Storyteller is the second of Jodi Picoult's books that I have read.
In complex characters Sage, Josef, Minka, and to a certain extent, Leo, readers are treated to a complex web of humans and the potential for each person to love and to hate.
Jodi Picoult is an author who constantly challenges herself and now has undertaken the events of WW2 to segue her usual bone chilling plots and make an amalgam of sorts.The names of the characters in books generally are not only necessary, but they are also revelatory.
Sage is a young woman who has a troubled past and carries enough baggage to qualify as an alcoholic.
Only she doesn't.I liked the main characters.
One bonus fact is that there are no overwhelming flashbacks in this book.
Jodi Picoult uses her unique writing style to weave a persistent and apprehending magic, intuiting that there are many more books in the pipeline.
I have been taking on really easy reads due to the fact that my brain hurts.I thought, being Jodi Piccoult and all, that this book would fit into that category, however I was pleasantly surprised.
This book was not only extremely well written, but thought provoking and moving.
I never considered a book that took various perspectives of the Holocaust, well because I only believed there was one perspective that mattered or that was worth discussing.
In this book the main character Sage, whose grandmother is a survivor, is shocked to learn that an older man much respected in the community is/was a Nazi.
Absolutely worth the read, almost gave it 5 stars...
I do not read many of Jodi Picoult's books, mainly because a lot of them do not really appeal to me.
I bought this book mainly because of the high ratings it was recieving on here.
I loved this book, at times i had to put it down to clear my head of the horrors i was reading.
No matter how many books i have read, True or fiction based.
This book will stay with me for a while and will recommend it to friends alike.
I also feel that The Storyteller is the perfect book to counter that argument, because even though Picoult does use a somewhat similar formula in her novels (family issues, court cases, etc.) she is in no way exploitative, especially with this book.
Like she does in her other novels, in The Storyteller she takes difficult topics like forgiveness, trauma, and justice, and makes you feel every blow through her three-dimensional characters.
From Sage's scar-induced reticence to Josef's incisive inner turmoil, I rode a gamut of emotions expansive enough to cover an ocean.The Storyteller is Picoult at her prime.
When Part 3 returned to the modern-day characters and plot, I was initially not that thrilled about it, but I was feeling more invested in the story by this point — and then I guessed the twist and had to keep reading to see if I was right.
I wasn't really sure how to feel about Sage's ultimate decision ((view spoiler)[ to help Josef die, but not to forgive him  (hide spoiler)]), but it's certainly an interesting choice.
I loved the book. As a Jew myself, living in today's world I felt it was important for me to be reminded of this terrible atrocity. I wonder if I could have had the courage to survive and cope with the losses of all my loved ones. This book has given me a renewed sense of the importance of reaching out to those less fortunate and help elevate their suffering, rather than spend time worrying about petty bs. Thank you Jodi Picoult for this empowering shot of reality
10 STARS!!!!!!! This book wildly exceeded my expectations. This is one of the best book of the year, and easily the finest novel of Jodi Picoult's career. Just an extraordinary book. Words are inadequate.
Spoiler alert:If you read my reviews, then you know I'm a Jodi fan because I like her characters, controversial plots, and varied narrative techniques.
At first, I was frustrated that Jodi chose to write a story on a topic that has been told so many times before (and with so many fiction and nonfiction books on the Holocaust, people will invariably compare this book to these others).
I admit that I was uptight about the long passage Minka narrated of her experience in the Holocaust, but once I let go of my reservations, I found myself enthralled by the story (despite having read this Holocaust plot many times before).
This quote sums up a lot of what this book had me thinking about - "not all Jews were victims and not all Germans were murderers." Reading Minka's story of the Holocaust really dives into that statement.A quote from the book, "I do believe in people.
But he does deserve your forgiveness, because otherwise he will grow like a weed in your heart until it's choked and overrun." If people that did horrible things during the Holocaust later turned their lives around and tried to do good, did they deserve to be forgiven, or should they have been condemned for the rest of their lives?
I had been giving Picoult Novels a wide breath over the past few years as I had felt her books were beginning to take on a pattern which I grew tired of quite quickly.When I discovered that Jodie Picoult was going to take on a difficult and sensitive subject like the Holocaust I really wanted to read this novel.
I think Jodi Picoult manages to achieve a good balance in her latest novel.Sage Singer is a young woman and a baker in a small New Hampshire town and is hiding from the world due to a difficult past when she strikes and unlikely friendship with Josef Weber, a quiet respected and retired teacher and a pillar of the community.

Devastatingly good. Jodi Picoult weaves some amazing stories and like so many of her other books, this one will break your heart. I was completely engaged all day in this book and though some of it was predictable, I did not expect a lot of it. Trigger: this story does center around the Holocaust so it could be difficult for many to read.
I have only read one other book by Piccoult, Saving Grace, and it was okay.
When I read the brief summary of this book, NOWHERE did it mention the Holocaust!
When I realized this is what the book was about, I was upset-- to the point that I almost didn't finish reading it.
I am not anti-Jewish, anti-Holocaust or anything like that, but I do not want to read books about it.
She killed a man after refusing to forgive him.
How did anything really get resolved-- other than she learned her Grandmother's story and killed a man???
I don't know where to start in unravelling what is wrong with this.
I can only think that Picoult moves so many units that the editors are terrified to tell her the bleeding obvious.I've had to come back and add more - I've been dwelling on this: I think it is slightly unsavoury to use one of the most devastating horrors in recent memory as a backdrop to a silly love story.
It starts with Sage and ends with Sage, so Auschwitz is a bit part?
If you're going to use something so emotionally charged, then you have to rise to it - it's not just a cheap ingredient.
It was such an amazing and daring subject matter, an old Natzi SS officer at Auschwitz seeking out a young Jewish woman for assisted suicide and forgiveness.Another thing I forgot about Picoult books is the astounding amount of research that goes into her books – specifically in this case the “other” side of the story – how a seemingly normal German boy gets sucked into becoming one of Hitler’s death machines.But it also touches on loyalty and the breaking point this can reach.
This is a love story, historical fiction, horrendous accounts during the holocaust and dealing with grief and guilt in so many forms.
The Storyteller is my second Jodi Picoult book. And, I must say it will be hard to better it or even match it. My attention was grabbed right from page one, and my mind didn't wander once while reading. I don't know what to say other than this book was FANTASTIC. It's on my favorites list, and I will be recommending it to everyone for years to come.
Because, back in the 1940s, he worked in a concentration camp as a Nazi SS guard.It is quite astonishing to me that the Holocaust was only 80 years ago; it's really not ancient history.
The Storyteller also respectfully addresses the complicated matter of forgiveness and who really benefits from it.While reading The Storyteller, I did not discover anything about the Holocaust that I did not already know – it is not meant to serve as a history lesson – but it's the first time I've gotten close to thinking about what it would be like to experience Nazi cruelty first-hand.
The revelation of Josef's story as recounted to Sage is just classic Picoult.
Nothing is black and white -- he was an innocent boy; he was a man who got caught up and carried away in the times.
A combination of good and evil.
Sage's grandmother Minka is an Auschwitz survivor, but until now has never revealed her experiences.
The same Picoult-ness shines through as we hear about Minka's time in Auschwitz along with a parallel story she had written about monsters.
So really quite clever of Picoult.And clever indeed are the twists toward the end.
I have read a few WWII novels and even though the characters are fictional, the story of each single life lost during the holocaust deserves its own written account.
“What is the point of trying to put down on paper emotions that are too complex, too huge, too overwhelming to be confined by an alphabet?Love isn't the only word that fails.Hate does, too.” ― Jodi PicoultMinka is Sage Singers grandmother, a holocaust survivor, and she does not appear in the novel as a main character until 2/3 parts into the book.
As their friendship develops Josef ask Sage for her help, he wants her to help him die or in Sage’s mind to kill him.
Sage refuses until the Josef darkest secrets are exposed – he once was Nazi guard, stationed at Auschwitz.
To make matters worse – Sage’s living Grandmother is a survivor of Auschwitz and Josef wishes for forgiveness from Sage.
As Sage considers this request will this be murder or justice?A good portion of this book is told by Sage’s Grandmother, Minka.
Jodi I wish I could give you 10 stars for this book.
Josef Weber, a former Nazi officer befriends a young girl, Sage.
Minka’s story which makes up the majority of the book is set in the work camps and concentration camps of World War II.
An interesting perspective in this book was the account of how Josef, his brother and many other young men became committed to the ‘cause’ of Hitler’s Germany.
I did have some issues with Sage’s character at times.
I also found the bread making/baking descriptions initially interesting but then they became slightly boring at times, most especially near the beginning of the book.
So....holy crap wow!
This does not read like a Jodi Picoult novel.
I had given up on her a few novels ago when her stuff got too sappy for me.
I know there are many people who scoff at Picoult with her contrived plots and often didactic storytelling.
If you're one of those people, I suggest giving this one a chance.
I would have given it five stars if not for the fictional narrative written by one of the characters and interspersed throughout the main story.
That aspect of the novel was distracting, sometimes confusing, and sometimes downright boring.
Brava, Jodi.
Muito provavelmente o melhor que já li! E de certeza que vai ser um favorito do ano! O início foi um pouco lento e não parecia fazer muito sentido. Mas depois a narrativa ficou tão viciaste que foi impossível parar de o ler! Uma obra sobre o Holocausto muito forte e emotiva! Aconselho muito.
Through the voices of different people, in different stages of involvement in the Holocaust (the Auschwitz survivor, the ex SS member, the survivor’s grand-daughter and the FBI official Nazi-hunter), The Storyteller dwells with the moral questions of forgiveness and remorse, and has you asking yourself questions about what you would do in the unimaginable given situations.
This is certainly not of those Holocaust books, which manipulates and guilt-induces the reader into praising, just because of the horrid subject matter.
