https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107777.Prince_Charming
3 1/2 to 4 StarsNot my favorite Julie Garwood book–it was a bit more chick-lit than I prefer, as the heroine's relationship with the hero seemed to take a back seat to her relationships with the secondary characters. That said, I still enjoy this book, and in typical Garwood fashion, the ending left me feeling blissful, tenderhearted, and grinning. Note: I listened to the audio version of this story and the narration was fabulous.
Lady Esther's money would enable Ross to return home to Montana.
To Taylor, the wide-open spaces of Montana sounded like paradise....My review:I want to begin by saying that if the last 1/2 of this book hadn't been so very good, I would have given it a 3 star.
Both Taylor and Lucas had enough personality and background to make this an interesting read, but neither wanted to talk about their pasts so there was a lot of bones to their story, but not enough meat.
However...Without giving away too much, by the time they had finally accomplished the biggest part of Taylor's plan for "the greater good," the story had really picked up.
Yes, I know the fashion isn’t right for 1868, but these twins are just too adorable to not post!★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.) What can I say about the wonderful, versatile Rosalyn Landor that I have not said before? Here she surprised me with her Kentucky accent of Lucas Ross, the hero. Granted, I’ve met people from this wonderful Southern “blue grass” state and they speak a lot slower than she delivered Lucas’ lines. LOL! Which is probably a good thing, as it would have taken me for
Yes, I know the fashion isn’t right for 1868, but these twins are just too adorable to not post!★★★★½ (This is a review of the audiobook.) What can I say about the wonderful, versatile Rosalyn Landor that I have not said before?
Of course, the rest of her reading is perfection.
I've read this one before, but she kicks it up a notch.
the scenes aboard ship, the cute twins, and Lucas’ possessiveness -- once he commits to Taylor.
Some think the book’s title is a little misleading, as Lucas is NOT a knight and Taylor is so obviously a lady; he’s a ...
This was a charming book...I liked the way they travelled from England to the wild west.I was chewing my nails a time or two as they searched for the babies...and cried tears when that issue was settled.Daniel David (or is it David Daniel?) was a lovely extra character...and I loved Hunter!At one point Victoria throws up on his boots and I really wish I could have seen his face.I agree with another reviewer who wished that Lucas would have spoken of his feelings a bit more.
Not everyone got what they deserved.Edited to add: There is no sequel to be found...which is a shame...BUT I forgot to say in my original review that I loved the way that Taylor leaned on the Lord for help.
This was the very first romance novel I ever read...I was maybe 12, 13? I even remember taking it off the top shelf at my library (Central in Lake Charles). And of course, I've been hooked ever sense. It's the reading equivalent of eating a sugar cookie--with happy sprinkles! Garwood infuses humor into her love stories which I enjoy and this is one of her better ones. Very much recommended to those who like romance novels.
However, as the story made its way to Redemption, I felt like it hit a landslide and then crashed and burned.
At the start, I really loved how the story began, and the couple getting to know each other and falling for each other.
However, there was way too much unnecessary detailed parts regarding others- like side characters that really didn't need much explaining.
And as much as I liked Victoria, she had too much attention on her secondary character as well in parts.
This book really need an editor for corrections, and to chop the story down.
Overall, not the types of settings and characters that one would typically expect from a historical romance, but in spite of the seeming incongruousness, it all ended up working together to create a very enjoyable story.Taylor is an outwardly poised and confident young woman who knows what she needs to do and is very determined to see it through.
Having experienced prejudice most of his life for being a half-breed, Hunter doesn't think himself good enough for a fine, beautiful lady like Victoria, so the two end up sharing a fair bit of bantering while fighting their feelings much like Taylor and Lucas.There are some other great secondary characters too.
I adore this story.When Taylor Stapleton becomes the main heir to her Grandmother’s fortune, she agrees to her beloved Grandmother’s plan to protect it and her twin orphaned nieces- marry her off and quickly.Not as foolish as it sounds as the man her Grandmother finds for her is none other than a honest to God American frontiersman ala Davey Crocket and Daniel Boone.
As for Taylor, some might think Lucas Ross gruff and imposing, but to her, he quickly becomes her one and only Prince Charming.
They were explaining in detail what had happened over the weekend and talking nonstop all about their day, which I think any normal 2 year old couldn’t do.I doubt a two year old baby could say, “Mama shot a damned snake.” As the story went on the sentences got longer and more ridiculously, unrealistically outlandish.
It’s funny how they’re not even 3 years old yet, and they’re too young to be called ANYTHING other than babies, when they form complete sentences such as, “Are you my mama?” “Yes,” Taylor answers.
Ένα πολύ γλύκο και τρυφερά αισθηματικό βιβλίο με ροή που τρέχει..Θα μπορούσε να το ""απλώσει""περισότερο με τους δευτερεύοντες ήρωες..Αυτό όμως που με κέρδισε ήταν οι εξαιρετικές περιγραφές συναισθημάτων ανάμεσα στους δύο κεντρικούς ήρωες και ειδικά στις προσωπικές στιγμές τους !Τις ζούσα μαζί τους.Άν πέσει στα χέρια σας δώστε του μια ευκαρία .
Taylor's grandmother, Lady Esther, is dying and knowing her granddaughter will need protection she finds a man to marry Taylor and take her to America. She finds Lucas Ross, an American rancher and mountain man.I thought this one started out wonderfully. Unfortunately, it lagged a bit towards the middle. But overall, it was a good read. But not, in my opinion, Ms Garwood's best. Compared to other books of this genre (American West-historical romance), I think it stands pretty well.
Finally!Fi-na-lly!Hear me, finally I finished this book! It took me almost 3 days! Yeah, this book seemed like "War and Peace" sometimes, when I skipped a lot of pages.Author writes beautifully, but I don't care how they washing babies, children, etc..There was so much inner dialogues, ramblings, details and descriptions of hotel rooms.... I don't f*cking care which colour is sofa and walls...The MCs were good, I like them. But those ramblings, oh god!No OP scenes, no cheating, no OW drama.
Es el primer libro de Julie Garwood que compro *-* Estoy tan feliz de al fin conseguir algo de ella.Amo a Lucas, con todo mi corazón, es un hombre que roba suspiros a cada rato.
La relación de Taylor y Lucas, me gusta, porque ella tiene esa picardia, inocencia, impulsividad, que la vuelve graciosa y exasperante al mismo tiempo, y él no quiere pero le gusta.
Me gusta que tanto Taylor como Lucas no se sienten amenazados por la presencia de Hunter o Victoria en su relación ni por la familiaridad con que se tratan ni la confianza de trato.
This is the first Julie Garwood I read. It was recommended by a friend. Since reading this one I've read others and so far they've all been good. I don't tend to read a lot of books that are set in the times of western expansion or similar time frames most of what I read is set in the Regency era or Scotland from when it was independent from Scotland to the 1800's but every so often when I read the aforementioned they usually turn out good.
Me encanta este libro. Puede que no sea uno de los más conocidos de Julie Garwood, pero es uno de mis favoritos de ella. Es la tercera vez que me lo leo, y estoy segura de que volverá a caer en un futuro.
leído en Ene 2012Me encantó.... !!me pareció muy bello el protagonista y la trama es muy buena!!
While Lucas wants money and is getting over the trauma of his past, Taylor wants to use his companionship to rescue her sister's kids, Allie and Georgie.It had wonderful side characters, from Daniel Davis, to Hunter and Victoria, and some nasty evil ones too, including Jane and Malcolm.It had a tender yet strong heroine looking for someone to love.A dashing yet vulnerable hero trying to avoid all emotions.And these two falling for each other.I've always admired the strength of JG heroines, and Taylor was no exceptions.
How she handles being a sudden orphan, wife, confidante, mother of three, protector- yet providing each and every one with love and never giving up was just spectacular to read.Also credit goes to Lucas for being an alpha, yet non overpowering hero.
Aceasta carte a fost pentru mine o adevarata surpriza,si tin sa mentionez ca a fost una foarte placu
Once they arrive in Boston, Lucas will leave and go west in order to live his life and Taylor will remain in Boston to live her life.For many reasons, the plan does not go as expected.During all this, there is a strong physical and emotional attraction between the two.
And the relationship is filled with discovery of who are the two people involved in the marriage.The secondary characters are interesting and add a great deal to the atmosphere and development of the story.If you are a fan of romance, strong handsome heroes and heroines who are much more capable than expected, then this is a book you will enjoy.It is fantasy romance, and sometime that is just what is needed.
(hide spoiler)]Includes: Excerpt from The Ideal Man.I really enjoyed it.There’s no question: Julie Garwood knows how to spin a yarn.Prince Charming was utterly charming.
A nice change of pace mixing Regency England with Colonial America, lovely secondary characters and a believable HEA.My only down-side would be, for all it’s length, I needed a little more story at the end.
Lucas’ relationship with his brothers was a little unfulfilled and I would have liked to see how Taylor got on at the ranch.Is that the sign of a good book?
I wanted more?Overall, it was really good.References:Author’s website: http://juliegarwood.com/books/prince-...(ISBN …)-CR-
I loved this book!!!
I think I fell in love with this book from the first chapter.
There were so many things about this book that I really liked so I will just name a few.
I absolutely loved how Taylor called Lucas Mr. Ross all the time even after he told her to call him Lucas.
Number three: the hero, Lucas Michael Ross.
Number four: it was in Montana.
And this book made me want to even more.
Another wonderful book by Julie Garwood!!Side note: The only thing I didn’t like about this book was holding it!
I am officially a big time Garwood fan.
Time period in the mid 1800s.
The Matriarch of the family is dying and before she leaves this earth she sets events in place to change her will.
Taylor, her favorite grandchild, has been humiliated by her fiance eloping with her cousin Jane(notice no y) just weeks before her wedding.
The Matriarch's eyes have finally been opened to her Son's and his daughter's(Jane) character and decides to rectify the situation before she dies.
She sets events in place to protect her beloved granddaughter, Taylor.
I was under the impression that this was a regency HR novel when in fact it started off as that and then morphed into a Frontier HR novel.
I did like Taylor and Lucas together, but everything else kind of bored me a little bit.
I guess I've figured out that frontier HR romances are not my thing.Other than that issue, the book did have some positives.
The relationship between Lucas and Taylor was funny to watch.
The children being introduced into the story really added some humorous and touching moments.
Victoria and Hunter were also a nice added aspect.
This is actually one of my all time favorite Julie Garwood books.
For years, I hesitated picking it up because I just could not get past the title.
In this book, Garwood really lets her sense of humor loose and I found myself laughing out loud to the antics and escapades of the heroine.
In typical Garwood fashion, we get a wonderful romance, a great story, characters that you grow to love, and some very controversial subjects (eg, child abduction, violence, desertion).
Garwood never holds back and she is the absolute best in developing great leading men.
It all makes for a great read.
Lady Taylor is about to lose her grandmother but before her grandmother passes away they make a deal with Lucas Ross.
Taylor marries Ross so that he can protect her from her Uncle Malcolm.
Malcolm wants the entire inheritance as well as control over Taylor.
Taylor's sister has moved to the states with her husband and twin daughters.
Unfortunately Taylor's sister and husband pass away and the twins need Taylor's protection and guardianship.
This starts a series of incidents where Lucas is drawn further and further into Taylor's world and into her heart.
I LOVED, Loved, loved this book.... I loved it enough to re-read it... Lucas and Taylor had great chemistry, they where funny and sweet... Victoria and Hunter, The children and all the townspeople, I loved them all... There where plenty of LOL moments, and it had some fantastic angst, The Romance was perfect and this book was a page turner, I read it in 24 hours... Judy Garwood isn't overly descriptive with her love scenes but I thought the ones in this story where Hot as hell... I truly Loved this book!
Very cute. I like how the main lady character has always dreamed of the 'wild west' and then finds it's not all fanatically charming as she thought it would be (but she still likes it). I love how the main guy, Lucas, is actually very vulnerable emotionally and doesn't think he is loveable due to his childhood. But he still comes off as tough enough that you respect him. Just a cute book but I'll read it again sometime when I'm in a lull.
I'm listening to audiobook. I also have the paperback.Even though the audiobook sound is very dated, the narrator did a great job. I was hooked pretty much from the beginning. I started reading this author a couple of years ago and loved some and didn't care for some others. This one was great. I'm a little tired of the English lord and lady heroines, it was nice to have someone who wasn't.
This was one of those books that kept on rolling.Very likeable heroine... Hero was okay, but very closed-mouthed about everything. Lots of emotion tied up in this story. Definitely some UST.Easy to read - no "Wall" moments. Entertaining.
This book was simply boring. Taylor was realy annoying charachter even if her heart is in the right place.
