https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/395921.The_Power
*3,5*
- H Κάσι είναι ενοχλητική.- Ο Άνταμ φαίνεται ιππότης,αλλά είναι μαμούχαλος.- Ο Νικ είναι περίεργος και ο πιο ενδιαφέρων χαρακτήρας.- Η Φέι είναι ανώριμη,η κακία της είναι αναίτια και παιδιάστικη.- Η Νταιάνα είναι υπερβολικά αφελής και...μη ρεαλιστική!- Το ρομάντζο ήταν ανεπαρκές και γελοίο.- Οι σκηνές δράσης ήταν βιαστικές.- Και θα το διάβαζα άνετα άλλες 100 φορές!
Although the first two books in the trilogy (The Initiation and The Captive) are pretty strong and I thoroughly enjoyed reading them, this third one did not captivate me in the same way.My main problem was the sudden switch in focus between Nick and Adam, the two men that Cassie is attracted to.
In the first two books the pace was balanced well with the plot development and the strong characterisations, but here it felt like Smith was trying to pack in too much.As with The Initiation and The Power, I did love the way Smith wrote these characters.
Ήταν καλύτερο σε σχέση με τα προηγούμενα, είχε πολύ περισσότερη δράση και αγωνία. Δυστυχώς όμως όχι αρκετά για μένα ώστε να πω ότι αξίζει 4 αστεράκια, διότι οι ήρωες συνεχίζουν να συμπεριφέρονται ανώριμα και η γραφή να παραμένει υπερβολικά απλή και προφορική για βιβλίο.
1.5 stars. It's readable and has a couple of cool bits (when they discuss crystals or other fictional or realistic witchcraft), but that's all it has going for it.
I love L.J Smith's world-building but I hate the romance and the main character.
My line has the sight and the power, she thought. I want to use that power to stand up to him. To face him.  4.5 stars. No spoilers. I'm deducting .5 stars for Diana being a sweet cinnamon roll and suffering for it. She's either really into polyamory, or she's the biggest doormat who ever lived and everyone is okay with it. Either way, I don't like what happened to her.Here are my final thoughts on this book:* I want Diana and Nick to be together. SOOOO. DAMN. BADLY. "But don't worry about it.
My line has the sight and the power, she thought.
I want to use that power to stand up to him.
I'm deducting .5 stars for Diana being a sweet cinnamon roll and suffering for it.
Either way, I don't like what happened to her.Here are my final thoughts on this book:* I want Diana and Nick to be together.
Nick's a nice guy, and I know you won't hurt him.
You know how special he is." Cassie nodded, but she was startled to hear her own words on Diana's lips.She hadn't known Diana knew.
Do yourselves a favor and read it- infinitely more complex than the TV series, and it explains why Harry Potter felt like a bad cliche.Rereading this trilogy was startling- I had forgotten how good it was, how well-developed the characters were, and how strikingly Cassie- the protagonist- goes from being a meek mouse to becoming a strong and capable leader, despite her own self-doubt (showing the multidimensional characterization).
These books also linked for me many different Fantasy interests- paganism, druidism, Greek gods and goddesses, reincarnation.
I would have liked to see how everyone in the Circle ended up, especially Cassie's romantic life.
OMG.
What can I say this was a great to a trilogy.
I could not have asked for more.
It tied all the lose ends.
The cliffhangers through out the series was amazing.
I love the heroine Cassie and the love traingle that in the end worked out for the best.
I admire Diana for here strength in not seeing things as a lost but as a gain in the benefit of the group.
I really enjoyed the interaction between the characters and it made me feel a part of the story as an outside looking in from a window into a world of magic.
Amazing.
Read this whole series back when i was 13-14 and i was BLOWN away by it.... so much so i DESPERATELY wanted to be a witch... hmmm... maybe i just wanted Adam.... :)
That ending was fucked up.
Cassie tut immer so tough und letztendlich ist sie doch nur ein manipulierbarer Schwächling, der nichts anderes tut, als nach einem Mann zu schmachten, den sie nicht haben kann und sich selbst zu bemitleiden.
Ich hatte zeitweise eine unendliche Wut auf Cassie, wegen ihres egoistischen, heuchlerischen Verhaltens.
Nichtsdestotrotz habe ich mich insgesamt unterhalten gefühlt und da man bekanntlich zu Beginn des Jahres noch etwas milder in seinen Bewertungen ist, bekommt das Buch von mir 3 Sterne.
Ich hoffe die nächsten Bände werden wieder besser.
PS.: Ist sonst noch jemandem aufgefallen, dass die Mädchen auf den deutschen Covern keine Hälse haben?
J'ai été un peu déçu d'ailleurs, car il y a eu peu de rebondissements par rapport aux autres livres.Bien sûr, la sorcellerie est toujours omniprésente, ce qui relève le niveau.
Les masques tombent, on découvre les vrais visages des personnes que l'on suit depuis le début, et c'est passionnant !L'intrigue se déroule dans un univers plus sombre que précédemment, on sent que c'est la fin, que l'apocalypse approche, le grand final.
J'avais vraiment apprécié les deux autres tomes, alors quand je me dis que je n'aime pas le dernier de la série, c'est plutôt frustrant.Donc voilà, c'est un avis assez mitigé que je publie.
I picked up this series because I’ve heard its going to be hopefully made into a tv show…I don’t know what I was expecting when I read this trilogy (which I got through in about three days) but I don’t think it was met…this book series just wasn’t very good…it was in no way bad….I’ve read bad, and this isn’t it…But its not very good either, its more “meh”, and bland as hell…I could stand cassie most of the time, but she’s an utter a moron and a terrible mary-sue (actually all the characters are pretty dumb most of the time and all are more cardboard then fleshed out ), the plots see through and I predicted everything from the beginning of book one pretty much, and the writing was all around mediocre….I did like the characters themselves, their descriptions, their vague personalities, etc.
O trilogie frumoasă, potrivită pentru acele momente în care nu-ți dorești altceva decât pură relaxare, voie bună și o poveste ușoară care să nu te solicite prea mult.Magie adevărată, secrete de sute de ani și obiecte cu puteri nebănuite sunt elemente ce au menirea de a te atrage în mrejele lor, pentru a deveni una cu povestea personajelor.
12 tineri au puterea de a alege de care barieră să lupte împreună, însă conducătorul lor, care face parte dintre aceștia și pe care tot ei l-au votat, îi poate influența destul de mult spre calea pe care o vor alege în cele din urmă.“– Aşadar, acum, că eşti vrăjitoare, ce vei face prima dată?Cassie izbucni în râs, simţindu-se ca şi cum ar fi fost beată.
Tuhle knížku jsem dočetla už před víkendem, ale musela jsem si to nechat trochu uležet, abych se rozhodla, jak tuhle knížku hodnotit. A došla jsem k tomu, že je svým způsobem nejlepší i nejhorší z celé trilogie... nejhorší tím, že mě točily některé situace a malinko i samotný závěr. Nejlepší proto, že mě dokázala zaujmout a překvapit, což bych u L. J. Smith ani nečekala... Moje hodocení je mezi 3,5 a 4 hvězdičkami, ale protože je to spíš nahoru, dávám tady čtyři. Pokud jste četli první dva díly, třetí vás určitě nezklame! :)
What can i say about this book? I loved it. This booked showed me everything i wanted to see in all the characters and i'm glad i got to see the circle at it's best. The ending was perfect and this book had to offer so much even though it was quite short.
WOW! I am in love again! This is definitely one of my favorite series of all time! I love the conclusion so much!
Σαφώς το καλύτερο μέχρι τώρα σε σχέση με τα προηγούμενα με έντονη δράση και αγωνία
Follow my book review blog to see more book reviews and related book stuff!---------------------------------------- This book starts right where the second book left. And boy what a cliff hanger the second book left at!Cassie and the coven are finding it odd with Faye as the new coven leader. They're trying to do everything they can to defeat Black John and discover who was behind the murderers but with Cassie's grandmother gone and Cassie's mother incapacitated just who are they supposed to tur
I was always drawn in whenever I picked up the book to read, I was able to relate to nearly every character in some small way at least.It wasn't amazing writing, I didn't put down these books thinking of how beautifully and poetically they were written.
I had wanted so much more!These little things didn't knock down my opinion though, I was able to forgive these things because I feel so highly about this series.Overall, I didn't love this book as much as the other two but I did still really like it and I think it was a great ending to the series.
I loved the book.
This wraps up the story so beautifully.
I didn’t want for it to end, I felt such a connection with all the characters that I wish this would be like a never ending series, all the way till they’re older and the once they’re re born.
I love witchy stories and elemental magic.
Sort of like Wicca.
just like a witch.
Her family also comes from a village that people say was full of magic and witches “Izalco”.
I think that’s why I feel some type of connection.
I feel like writing fan fiction of some characters lol
The Secret Circle series by L.J. Smith was always my favorite series of hers so when I decided to read it again I was worried that it would be awful and ruin my fond memories. While I did find it to be less good than I remembered I still quite enjoyed the characters and story even if the writing style was not exactly to my liking.
For my written review, please check out the link below:Debra's Book CafeDebs :-)
Ο Μαύρος Τζον όμως δεν φαίνεται να είναι διατεθειμένος να τα παρατήσει έτσι εύκολα και αντ' αυτού, φέρνει την παρέα των μαγισσών στα όριά τους, δοκιμάζοντας τις αντοχές τους κάνοντας την Κάσι να καταλάβει πως εκείνη είναι που μπορεί να τον σταματήσει και πως μονάχα με τις δυνάμεις τους ενωμένες, μπορούν να απαλλαγούν από την σατανική παρουσία του αντιπάλους τους μια για πάντα.Η αλήθεια είναι πως όσον αφορά τον τρόπο γραφής της Smith, υπάρχουν ορισμένες φορές που έχω κάποιες ενστάσεις, στο σύνολο του έργου της.
Welches Unglück hierbei wirklich entsteht, wird für den Hexenzirkel erst viel zu spät klar, denn ausgerechnet Black John, der von den Hexen seit Jahrhunderten gefürchtet wird, steht dadurch wieder auf und hat es auf Cassie abgesehen.Black John nimmt die Gestalt des neuen Schuldirektors an und legt Regeln fest, die dazu beitragen, dass der Hexenzirkel in die Außenseiterrolle gerät.Durch diese neue Rolle geraten die Jugendlichen immer wieder in Schwierigkeiten, die ihre Konsequenzen mit sich ziehen, wie schwer diese jedoch sind, wird erst im Laufe der Geschichte immer offensichtlicher - und dann muss sich der Zirkel noch ohne seine Anführerin durchschlagen, denn ausgerechnet Faye verbündet sich mit Black John...Wow, was für ein Ende!
Amazing book and series+ +
4,5/5Nejlepší díl série.
Čarodějnická série Tajný kruh je ještě z předpotterovské doby, u nás však vyšla teprve nedávno.
Vždyť kdo by se nechtěl stát čarodějem, i kdyby jen prostřednictvím kni­hy?Když Cassie Blakeová odjížděla na prázdniny do Nové Anglie, ještě netušila, že se tam přestěhuje natrvalo, zjistí, že je čarodějka, a zamiluje se do přítele své nové nejlepší kamarádky Diany.
Na což je teď, když mladí čarodějové čelí hrozbě od lovců čarodějů i zlého Černého Johna, ta nejnevhodnější do­ba…Moc těsně navazuje na druhý díl trilogie, Otrokyně.
I třetí díl Tajného kruhu je tenká knížka, takže autorka nemá příliš prostoru na rozvláčné natahování děje.
Cost: I received a bind up of the first three books in this series as a gift.
Title:  The Power Series:  The Secret Circle #3 Author:  LJ Smith Overall Rating:  4 starsThis was my favourite out of the original trilogy.
My god do I love characters that admit that they can't do it all themselves, especially in witch books!
I knew something was going to happen, I just didn't expect that!I don't think I'll read the next three books in this series as they weren't written by the queen herself, LJ Smith, and I liked the ending of this one.
That's one of the sad parts about rereading childhood favorites...
In this case, I have gotten too educated to be able to fully buy into the ending.
That, and I finally realized that Smith really did a crap job on writing this ending.
It's always seemed a bit fast paced before, but this time it was really gone in the blink of an eye.
This ending 1.
was over much too fast and 3.
was entirely cliche perfect.
Moving on from the disappointment, it was fun to reread this whole series again!
(You see, cliche's have stuck with me!)
It was really good and the characters weren't all alcoholics and self centered kids like the show made them.Now I don't know if the author is using the show to sell more books, but if she keeps writing the characters like CW they'll turn into a bunch of alcoholics.
But as it happens the show was canceled.When I read the original three books in the 90's I related to the characters.
I also enjoyed the way the author made witchcraft a fantasy.She made it black and white and unrealistic to allow the magick to be a background character.I enjoyed and remembered this three book series more than her vampire four books
