https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173454.The_Divine_Conspiracy
If you are uncomfortable with the theology of the Fundamentalists and their emphasis on "getting into heaven is the most important thing, and the only way to get there is to believe what we believe"...and if you find that there is something lacking in the Liberal's theological conclusion that it is all about social justice...then here is a book which digs into the heart of Jesus's message and challenge to us living in the world today.We can never pass enough laws to force people to be good people--we cannot legislate morality.
How do we change our heart?
I say it's worth getting over it, because this book is SO good.
Life changing.
I will never look at life, eternity, Jesus, Christianity the same, ever again.
It has changed me.
It has made me love Jesus more, want to know him more, enlivened me to his purposes, given me guidance about how to go on from the reading and actually live it.
This is a book I expect to reference my whole life, starting with a second read right now.It isn't easy reading.
Expect some grueling uphill climbs, some disorientation, some re-reading of paragraphs.
To do this, he gives us a prolonged reflection on the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus' in-depth discussion of what life in his Kingdom is like.
There are so many deep and profound insights into what it means to live a life devoted to God. Eternal life is here already, and Willard has helped me to see and appreciate it, and helped me to pull so many threads of Christian thought together into a coherent and compelling vision of life in God, kingdom-life, a life as a devoted disciple of Jesus Christ.
Reading this book is a labor of love. Or maybe just a labor. I really struggled with Willard's writing style, but there is no denying the wisdom, richness, and depth in these pages. Some passages were worthy of reading 3 or 5 times repeatedly to soak in them. The scope is expansive and it's a true classic. Just be patient and prepared to grind through parts.
In his own words, this book 'complete(s) a trilogy on the spiritual life of those who have become convinced that Jesus is the One." The intent/purpose of the book is to "present discipleship to Jesus as the very heart of the gospel." This is accomplished more than once in the 419 pages.
Willard continues to challenge me: from ministry, to the importance of Christ's bodily (not just spiritual) resurrection. A difficult read though, and his "program for discipleship" was not among my favorite features. Overall, a thought-provoking, enlightening book.First review: I just began reading Willard's book, but already it has me thinking. Within the first paragraph, he lays out his philosophy: "Presumed familiarity has led to unfamiliarity, unfamiliarity has led to contempt, and contempt has led to profound ignorance." I hope this book continues to challenge what I think I already know about faith and life...
I don't know what it was about this book - the length of the paragraphs, the density of text on the page - but I couldn't really get with the flow until the last chapter or so. Instead of reading and meditating, often normal for me in a book like this, I found myself skimming in the hope of finding a way in.I don't doubt I will read it again. I made quite a few notes on the way through. But there isn't a forest of bookmarks jutting out of the book as there normally is for something like this.
"My hope is to gain a fresh hearing for Jesus, especially among those who believe they already understand him." This is how Dallas Willard begins his introduction, and he certainly inspired me to take a new good look at the Jesus I claim to follow.
The Divine Conspiracy is the most thorough, structured and comprehensive book I have read on Christian faith and practice.
Willard's use of paraphrased and freely translated scripture also really helped to better understand certain biblical passages.
If the thoughtful answer is; "not really," then we need to look elsewhere or deeper.""Kingdom obedience is kingdom abundance.""As a disciple of Jesus I am with him, by choice and by grace, learning from him how to live in the kingdom of God. This is the crucial idea.
Another way of putting this is to say that I am learning from Jesus to live my life as he would live my life if he were I.""We project upon God the sadistic tendencies that really are present in human beings.
One of our worst thoughts about God is that he, too, enjoys human suffering.
While I wouldn't consider myself a Christian, I do love Jesus Christ's teachings.
His preaching about acceptance is something that I feel is left out by many Christians today, and it's heartbreaking to see.) He has great teachings about love and life and acceptance.
I wouldn't say I believe in the Christian God. So, while I can completely agree with the philosophical ideas behind Jesus's teachings, I can't get behind the theological ones.
They're great points, and this is definitely aimed towards those who believe in the Christian God.I definitely plan on listening to the second book, which is longer, during work tomorrow.
However I am not doing this book any justice with this condensed TL;DR -- read and parse out for yourself!A lot of the material here resonated with me as it seemed in alignment with other Christian voices I have digested in recent years -- N.T. Wright *After You Believe (Virtue Reborn)*, the writings of Richard Rohr (oddly, and coming at it from a moderately different tilt), etc.…The chapters on The Beatitudes and The Lord's Prayer are alone 10X+ the value of the cost of the book.
Read again in August of 2014 and I am revising my stars to 5 because it only gets better every time I read it! Read again in March 2017. Here is the latest review with links to the other ones: http://carolhomeschool2.blogspot.com/...Read it again September 2017 because it is OFFICIALLY in my Renovaré Institute Curriculum!http://carolhomeschool2.blogspot.com/...
For a man who has made his living extricating the deeper meaning of language, I don't know why this particular jingle stumped him and was interpreted in the most literal way possible.The second issue comes with the biggest and arguably most important section in the book: that on discipleship.
Willard, an older white man, probably did NOT receive the sort of training in discipleship, nor dedication to spiritual practice, that I did.
This is precisely the kind of dedication to discipleship that Willard is describing, and says doesn't exist.
He wrote, taught and preached as someone who had authority and knowledge that is beyond the average Christian.I see not as much, but the same understanding in the writings of C.S. Lewis, and now in the writing of Dallas Willard, a present-day philosopher and theologian who wrote The Divine Conspiracy."The Kingdom of God is at hand" is the pervasive theme of this book, with every argument, thought and example pouring into this theme.
If there was anything in this book at all that I did not like, it was that he took the liberty to paraphrase scriptures into his own words.
Anyone seeking to develop their understanding of Jesus's teachings, and feed their vision of his beauty could benefit from reading The Divine Conspiracy.Most of the book is an extensive commentary on the sermon on the mount, showing how it is more than just a brilliant collection of moral teachings.
Indeed, we can expect this love to develop in us as we walk in faith and unconditional surrender.One of the main themes is the power and importance of relating to life through asking.
Rather than make demands which are not warranted on God or on others, through asking we give others the respect needed for healthy relating.
Modern Christianity is not well known for its thinkers, so people like Dallas Willard stand out.
Although conservative, his agenda is radical change, critiquing established conventions in both the Christian and non Christian world view, holding a tension of both modern and traditional outlooks throughout.
I wonder if the book would find more favour with the former than the latter.The early chapters open a gentle rebuke of the existing 'consumerist' Christianity and its appeasement with philosophies in opposition to Christianity, while establishing that the kingdom as explained by Jesus was and is very different from modern concepts of it.
Perhaps the most formative book of my adult life.
No one in our day has more important things to say than Dallas Willard concerning discipleship and spiritual formation.
I see him as my grandfather, at least spiritually.
His book inspired me to memorize the Sermon on the Mount.
I led near twenty college students through this book over a 5 year period.
Willard has such a unique, yet historically proven view of Jesus' intention of calling others to walk with him.
This book and its contents were truly the source of the greatest paradigm shift in my life.
I recommend this book unequivocably.
A soft three stars. I recommend this as a sweet dessert after you have eaten the meat and veggies of other commentaries on the Sermon on the Mount.
This book has influenced my understanding on the central message of the Kingdom that Jesus taught, more than any other I have read! You can't afford not to read it!
One of those rare books that gets you a glimpse of eternal reality. Willard's scholarship is first-rate, his exegesis consistently profound; as he unfolds the inner meaning of the Sermon on the Mount he brings to light truths as sublime as they are deep and insightful.

This book is dedicated to the concept that God helps humans experience the “great inversion” that makes life different than might otherwise be expected, the “great inversion” that turns even religious ideas upside-down.
So, he offers a particularly biting criticism of “consumer Christians,” when he writes, “The consumer Christian is one who utilizes the grace of God for forgiveness and the services of the church for special occasions, but does not give his or her life and innermost thoughts, feelings, and intentions over to the kingdom of heaven.
We can develop a practical plan to help us become more Christ-like.Here are Willard's main points:Christians for the most part consider the primary function of Christianity to be admittance to heaven.Faith that guarantees a satisfactory afterlife, but lacks impact in the here and now, is "consumer Christianity" or "bumper-sticker faith.We must step aside from the politics and pieties of church-ianity and embrace true Christian discipleship."[A]ctual discipleship or apprenticeship to Jesus is, in our day, no longer thought of as in any way essential to faith in him.
They are God’s best information on how to lead a basically decent human existence.”“The key, then, to loving God is to see Jesus, to hold him before the mind with as much fullness and clarity as possible.
They single out cases that provide proof that, in him, the rule of God from the heavens truly is available in life circumstances that are beyond all human hope.” (Dallas's teaching on the Beatitudes is staggering and radical.)“Still today the Old Testament book of Psalms gives great power for faith and life.
From beginning to end, Dallas Willard crafted an explanation of the Christian life that is unsurpassed by anything else I have ever read.
It is a look at "how to actually live in the reality of God's present kingdom." It is quoted so much by others because there are so many nuggets to quote!
He finishes with a "curriculum for Christlikeness" -- so that followers of Jesus are led to the point "where they dearly love and constantly delight in that 'heavenly Father' made real to earth in Jesus..." and so as to remove our "automatic response against the kingdom of God" -- the old habits we've developed over the years -- and replace them with natural inclinations that are consistent with kingdom living.I will be coming back to this book.
Mr. Willard's call to discipleship was outstanding and one that made me really think about personally being a disciple and discipling others.One of my favorite snippets in the book is on page 372 in the chapter "A Curriculum for Christlikeness." It is as follows:"The appeal and power of Jesus' call to the kingdom and discipleship is great, and people generally, of every type and background will respond favorably if that call is only presented with directness, generosity of spirit, intelligence, and love, trusting God alone for the outcome.
This is what I call 'church growth for those who hate it.' And bigger crowds are sure to follow, for the simple reason that human beings desperately need what we bring to them, the word and reality of The Kingdom Among Us."
It is less a traditional commentary than a theological reconsideration of the text for the sake of modern readers.
In the introduction, Willard says that his hope is too “gain a fresh hearing for Jesus especially among those who believed they already understand him.” This is a good and worthy goal considering that so many Christians today understand Jesus primarily through their reading of the New Testament epistles, rather than through Gospels themselves.
The Divine Conspiracy is well worth reading, but should not be thought of as a typical commentary on the Bible.
I heard it in my car some years ago, and recently I felt it was time to read it.It gets "discipleship" right, I think, and the gospel in general.
He is right in his estimation that this is "radical", though not "new", and I think most Christians will find this book incredibly challenging and inspirational at the same time.It's not a short book, though, and I felt it was longer than necessary to get the key ideas across.
At times I got the feeling that he was making new terms, not so much to clarify the message, but rather to sound different or even "hip" to a new generation.
Recommended reading for all Christians.
He breaks down, mostly through the Sermon on the Mount, what it means to be a follower of Jesus, showing the simplicity of the Gospel message and revealing with what the church has tended to bloat the message.
Rather than a new set of laws, a Christian prescription if you will, the Sermon is largely a description of how someone will act once they have truly grasped the fact that the Kingdom of God is at hand among us here and now.
The implication of the at-hand-ness of the Kingdom means believers continually are being changed into Christ-likeness.
Until we accept his Love For Us as the only Reality, we cannot have a relationship with the God who created all things.
How could I trust a God I fear?
It has been said that perfect love drives out fear.
Love did not just happen, it was created, therefore it had to be caused.
As I want a relationship with The Creator, as I don't want to live in Fear, as I want a life accompanied by the attributes of love- I need to Trust in He Whom Love Is Derived - Jesus.
