https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/549449.The_Making_of_the_President_1960
Every American election summons the individual voter to weigh the past against the future.Last Tuesday my wife worked half the day and came home.
Early voting allows one to go to the polls weeks in advance yet there is something uplifting about going out on Election Day. Walking back, I rattled off my list of those I voted for which failed to find victory.
The concluding chapter fleshes out the opening days in Camelot, though the spectre of Asia that White sniffs is from Laos -- not Vietnam.There is always a tendency to look ahead, to imagine omens for the future.
A query made it clear I'd no business there, so he picked me up and handed me over the pine railing to one of his fellows on the pavement, telling me to go back to my parents.I headed back through the crowd, excited by having been on stage, but increasingly nervous about what might now happen at school, until there, on the fringes, in her customary black with a matching, sequinned sash announcing KENNEDY I saw Miss Shriver, our beloved third grade teacher, as she, apparently, was seeing me.
Surprisingly, this doesn't burden the book, since White's treatment of Nixon is sympathetic.
Probably the most sympathetic I've read.
And since the book was a product of the immediate campaign, I have no idea whether White knew of the darker stuff, like JFK bag men buying votes in West Virginia, But you do get the sense that White is something of a romantic, and that this particular political duel is noble stuff.
More importantly, White gives a great account of the what the country was like in 1960, while signaling, accurately, the great changes ahead.
Subtitle: A Narrative History of American Politics in Action.About a year before the November 1960 election, Theodore H White began studying the likely candidates.
He focused on a handful of men with aspirations and/or apparent qualifications: Humphrey, Kennedy, Stevenson, Johnson, Nixon, Rockefeller.
He travelled from state to state reporting on the primaries or state caucuses / conventions.
(In that era, there were only sixteen states that held primaries!) He attended the Democratic and Republican national conventions.
I was fascinated to learn some of this history, and the first-hand look at the “political machines” that produced these two candidates, and ultimately President John F Kennedy.
Thus Kennedy is the main character in the book, and even when White is writing about the Republicans, I got the feeling that he couldn't wait to get to the next chapter to go back to writing about Kennedy.
White includes (as he does in the other three books) a chapter about America at that time.
As I mentioned previously, the book focused much more on Kennedy, and this is at Nixon's expense more than anyone else.
One final, telling comment by White about Nixon: on page 317, one of Nixon's inner circle (who themselves were often cut off from the candidate) said "Dick didn't lose this election.
Thus, the author discusses the political landscape that gave Kennedy, LBJ, Hubert Humphrey and Stuart Symington the confidence to battle for the democratic nomination (with Adlai Stevenson waiting patiently to see if he would be offered the democratic crown a third time), and, in alternating chapters, the fractious dispute between Rockefeller and Nixon.
But aside from the particular events that Mr. White is trying to relate, there is an intriguing aspect to the story that I kept returning to every few pages: In almost all accounts one might read now of Kennedy and Nixon, whether chronicling this time or of the two men individually, the author will have chosen his or her words with full knowledge of Oswald and Watergate.
White writes:“Heroes and philosophers, brave men and vile, have since Rome and Athens tried to make this manner of transfer of power work effectively; no people have succeeded at it better, or over a longer period of time, than the Americans.”The Democrats seeking the nomination of their party in 1960 included Senator Hubert Humphrey of Minnesota, Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri, Senator Lyndon B.
White writes, “in 1820 America held 9,638,000 people, of whom almost 20 per cent were Negroes; and the rest are considered to have been the parent ‘colonial stock’ of America — an overwhelmingly British stock, spiced lightly with adventurers from all northern Europe.”Over 40 million immigrants entered the country between 1820 and 1960.
It isn't Teddy White's fault the country has changed so, of course, but this book is rife with tendencies and attitudes that a less-than-charitable observer today might think helped foretell Sixties radicalism, when nobody really know what was coming in that decade.
He thought of television as a pervasive -- and unsettling -- way of reaching the mass of voters instantaneously without understanding that the school of TV would become today's school of hard knocks for a media candidate like Donald Trump, who could circumvent the electoral process on the way up.
First of all, it's everywhere lauded as a classic; the first real book on an American presidential campaign, the one every journalist from Joe McGinniss to Heilemann and Halperin tries to replicate.
Nixon's managers, on the other hand, concocted a weird theory of "pacing," that dictated their candidate create a "rhythm" of fast and slow weeks for his campaign.
What's also surprising on reading this is how much of the 1960 campaign has already gone down in history: the first, for Nixon almost fatal, TV debate, with his running "Lazy Shave" makeup; the U-2 plane shot down over Russia in the midst of the conventions; Kennedy's call to MLK Jr. in his Birmingham jail.
There are better campaign books out there.
While some things about presidential campaigns have changed, one thing that White portrays well is the grueling character of a national political campaign beginning with primaries through a November general election.
White sees that one of the critical decisions that may have determined the election was the decision of Nixon to campaign in all 50 states, even after being laid up with a knee injury, versus Kennedy's decision to focus on key, large electoral vote states, most of which he ended up carrying.
White also describes the gruelling and exhausting nature of the campaign both physically and mentally for both candidates and their families and close supporters.
(Kennedy ran against Richard Nixon and White spent months and months accompanying both candidates during the lead up to the election in order to be able to write the book.) Reading some of the speeches JFK made at the time and the sentiments he expressed with such eloquence and charm almost makes you want to cry when you compare it to the 2016 US election campaign.White has passed away but there is a book entitled The Making of the President 2016 in the tradition of Theodore White by Roger Stone that I might try reading although Roger Stone is described as being a longtime political adviser and friend of Donald Trump, so maybe not, but then again it might be interesting….but I doubt that Stone tried as hard to be an impartial observer as White obviously did.
Very informative book. I really liked it.
This is the classic, original political reporting of a Presidential campaign.
What is telling about this book, is that in the era when it was written, political reporters didn't really do too much reporting on the private lives of the candidates.
Also, Teddy White had a biased view of the Kennedy's - he was treated with an insider view of the campaign because he was essentially an insider, co-opted by the candidate early on.
But the reporting is blood-less, there is no real vibrancy or fire in the telling ...
But it is a classic, and spawned the genre that we have today.
Looked forward to reading this for years and was so disappointed by the extremely biased tone and outlook of the author. Apparently a certain portion of the press was so blinded by their idolatry of JFK that nothing negative or even human could be written about him...
Theodore White succeeded in writing the definitive account of the 1960 Presidential campaign as well as establishing a whole genre of political campaign reporting with this book.
Today, books are published every four years by journalists who travel everywhere with Presidential candidates and their staffs while learning political strategies and experiencing daily wins and defeats; all of them can trace their lineage to "The Making of the President 1960".
White capitalized upon its success with similar books in succeeding Presidential campaign years, but the "…President 1960" somehow remains the classic.
Kennedy; even White seems to have favored Kennedy over Richard Nixon in his reporting of the campaign.
This is the seminal work on the Nixon-Kennedy campaign of 1960.
White won the pullitzer prize and went on to create a cottage industry of campaign analysis books.
The interesting thing about the work is that it is written in a third-person, narrative style -- mostly.
In that sense, its a bit like reading Churchill's history of the Second World War. White also provides us what has become the iconic sense of these two men in this campaign.
In any case, if you have any interest in Kennedy, Nixon, elections or politically history, this is a book to read.
Some of his descriptions of John and Bobby Kennedy, Richard Nixon, and the Kennedy Brain Trust are still vivid in my mind.Some of the wisdom I remember (hopefully with some accuracy):-If you have huge crowds showing up to see you, it does not mean you are going to win.
Kennedy had an amazing rapport with the reporters (like McCain today) and they all loved to than out with Kennedy, who was like the "cool guy."It has been a decade since I read this book, but it changed the way I view people and describe them.
Wow.What a gripping history of a presidential campaign, and of an era.The book was written in 1961, when the Kennedy vs.
Demographics were changing, the makeup of the country was changing, and nobody was certain if a Catholic could even be elected.The thing I enjoyed most, I think, is that the book was written before a lot of really important events.
Richard Nixon had never been president, nor had he resigned in disgrace.
Kennedy is charming and brilliant and has an amazing knowledge of people, places, and politics.I'm looking forward to the other 3 books in the series.
The original "Game Change", almost a half century before the colorful McCain/Palin/Obama/Clinton campaign.
Like 2008's Game Change, this book was written shortly after the 1960 election and includes extensive insights from embedded journalists.
You step into the inner campaign sanctums of JFK and Nixon, journey with them around the country, watch the strategies unfold, hear the strain in their weary voices, and wait on tenterhooks for each electoral vote to come in.Also, White puts the election in its proper context.
It was about a half dozen other viable candidates who have been largely forgotten by history - the liberal lion Hubert Humphrey, the professorial Stuart Symington, the perennial also-ran Adlai Stevenson, the hawk who bucked his own party Nelson Rockefeller.
I decided to read this book because of it's very high average review rating. I thought it would be the equivalent of Halperin and Heilemann's Game Change, that would it be fast moving and would cover a lot of ground. I was wrong on all counts. It was full of needless information and description, barely moved at all and didn't provide me with a whole lot of new information. A 200 page book would've been a lot more interesting.
This book was apparently fascinating when it was written in 1961, and is still fascinating now, but for somewhat different reasons. It's like opening a time capsule regarding the 1960 election and seeing how things have changed in so many ways. One example: Hubert Humphrey was the first candidate to enter the race, and he didn't do so until as late as December 30, 1959! Today, anyone waiting until just over ten months before Election Day would be hopelessly far behind.
interesting subject matter, but ultimately unreadable. At times painful to plough through another 10 pages of names and their duties.
In other parts of the book, White tends to relate events that he heard second-hand, making the work feel like the earliest forms of history, Herodotus and Thucydides.
At the end of the book, White gives much of the reason for Kennedy’s victory over to the idea that, in the absence of a pressing national crisis, Kennedy was able to locate a vague foreboding in the heart of the American electorate and use that to justify the need for a change in presidential party makeup.
The Making of the President 1960 is a book that stands out from the crowd.
His sweeping tale encompasses all the elements any good book should, complete with rich background information and a vivid cast of characters.
I think this book is best at weaving a narrative that shows not just the events of the campaign but creates a vivid background which would allow even the most novice student of politics to understand the political climate and attitude of the 1960 election.
I find that this book creates a great narrative that is not only informative but also fast paced and entertaining.
This is the first book I've read that dealt with an American election.
At times the author gets carried away with excessive descriptive language but overall I learned a lot about an incredibly close presidential campaign.
I wasn't born yet when this election occurred but I've heard so many general aspects about it without knowing the specifics.
Well, now I know.I can't give the title a 5 because the topic, to me, got a bit on the dry side as the author explained aspects of the campaign that are not inherently all that exciting to the common person.
As revolutionary as this book was when it came out, chronicling a presidential campaign and taking the reader behind the scenes of the primary campaigns waaaaaaay before 2008's Game Change came out, the book still finds ways to enlighten and surprise readers. We all have heard about how much anti-Catholicism JFK faced when he ran for President, but this book REALLY portrays how deep and serious those fears were back in the 60's. Definitely a must read for anyone who loves politics and history.
White sounds like an old-time reporter and some of his American stories sound scotch-drenched ("and by October everyone is drinking before lunch"), but he also has a strained optimism about the country that feels familiar today--he's able to read potential and peril together in the same incident.Great insight about: Wisconsin, West Virginia (99, 100 , 106, 111, 114), Massachusetts (343), Connecticut (341), California: "And it is in this culture of Southern California, where the synthetic and the genuine, the exquisitely beautiful and the grotesquely ugly, mingle without distinction that Nixon grew to manhood searching for identity" (66).Excellent insider take on a convention and on Adlai Stevenson (119, 168), the man who lost in 1952 and 1956 and seemed, even though he didn't actively campaign for it, like he might be about to get another chance in 1960 (this clearly could not happen now)."If this happy and placid man gave political calculators an impression of total schizophrenia, the reason was a simple on--Adlai Stevenson was and, I believe, remains torn in attitude to the two great systems of power that mesh in the unity of the American Presidency.
White lays it all out—the family aspirations, the nominating process, the interplay of regional and national politics, and the emergence of television in elections. Prescient remarks chilled my spine: White warns that the South shows signs of perhaps flipping to the Republicans, and he notes Nixon’s unsettling penchant for creating enemies. Little did he know that those inklings were the Future, instagramming him.
Read this for a book discussion. White wrote this after the election and before Kennedy's assassination so it is interesting to read from that aspect. He also has interesting insights into Nixon's behavior that make his subsequent election and the Watergate scandal understandable. This was a time when primaries were not as prevalent in each state and much of the nomination process was done by the party heavyweights inside each state. A long read but worth if for the understanding of history.
A mix of the personalities and statistics which determined the election of Kennedy over Nixon. Theodore White traveled with the campaigns of both candidates and won the Pulitzer Prize with his insightful, readable analysis.Read 4 times
