https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6604794-the-sky-is-everywhere
Each time someone dies, a library burns. First of all, let me just say that reading this as an ebook is a crime against literature and should be punished as such. The edition I’m holding resembles a diary with its worn cover, wonderful illustrations, little handwritten notes, blue ink and a rubber band holding it all together. It is, without a shadow of a doubt, the prettiest book I’ve ever seen. If you can’t get your hands on a paper edition, wait until you do or you’ll be robbing yourself of
Who knew all this time I was one kiss away from being Cathy and Juliet and Elizabeth Bennet and Lady Chatterley!?Writing a plot summary or trying to explain The Sky Is Everywhere in any way would probably do more harm than good.
They all had a huge part in making this story so special, so unlike any other story I’ve ever read.And Jandy Nelson, where on earth did you come from?!?
Your writing is like this huge energy ball that found its place in my stomach and just exploded over and over and over again, making me cry, laugh or jump with excitement, turning me into whatever you wanted me to be at that particular moment.
She uses original figures of style and moves you in ways you didn’t expect.Granted, you must be patient when you read her books, because she is the type to use more words than necessary in any given context.
She loves describing scenes, characters and especially feelings, making THE SKY IS EVERYWHERE so very lyrical.Normally, I don’t welcome love-triangles in my reads.
I’m used to admiring writing styles and feeling enthralled when I read a book, but I’m not that used to actually, literally feeling something in my stomach when I read a romantic scene.
Luckily, it’s not a requirement for me to love a book, but when it does happen, I am always impressed.
I felt like the romance between Joe and Lennie was WAY too sudden (He just randomly shows up at her house one day and then begins to invite himself into the house every morning with croissants?
A few times a great sentence would stand out to me, but I felt like she did more "telling" than "showing".
She would always say how a character "gave [Lennie] an irritated look", but didn't describe what that looked like.
After reading "I'll Give You The Sun", I was ready to read anything by Jandy Nelson!Once again the main character was an artist and going through grief. That part I loved. I didn't care as much for the romance/love triangle but if someone usually likes YA Contemporary romance you should absolutely give this book a shot!Overall I think it was impossible for this book to be as good as her other one but I overall enjoyed it. (3.5)
Jandy Nelson has a way with telling stories.
They all come out more like works of art than books.
Reading them is an experience of it's own, like dancing, but instead of your hands being on hips, they're on the cover of a book.When I die,tell me a funky storyjust like this oneI can't help but love.(Found on a message board, GoodReads, online)The way The Sky Is Everywhere connects death with becoming yourself and falling in love is beautiful.
All of the characters are crazy.
They feel like they're all telling their own stories, until they all become parallel and then crash together.
My Life is really happy with me for having finally read this beautiful novel. P.S: I quit writing.
when you read a story centred around the loss of someone, its expected to be an emotional and somewhat melancholy experience.
but the best books that deal with loss also make you wish for hope and feel uplifted.
i thought this book explored how lennie handled her grief very realistically and i couldnt help but feel invested in her and the other characters.
this was a very touching story.
one i know i could read at any time in my life, regardless of what i am feeling, and come out the end of it a much better person.
This was one of the best books I've ever read, more than five stars.
It was incredible, heartbreaking, so amazingly weird.
Read it everyone, this book is a gift from god.
Such a beautiful boy.
So different, so weird.
So sweet and also, beautiful, he does not measure up to joe though, oh joe, I think I'm in love.
Seems like best grandma in the world.
She has the most beautiful name.
I want to name my future kid Lennon, then call them Lennie.
I'll call it Lennie.
I can't even begin to explain the heartache I feel when reading about bailey.
Lennie, also called John Lennon by her friend/boyfriend and family, is grieving for her sister Bailey who died a sudden death.
Through-out the book, Lennie writes notes, poems, thoughts on any piece of paper and lets them go, buries them, tapes them to things, throws them away in different places.
But Lennie and Joe have something different.
But, can Lennie let everything go enough to find love with Joe?
I'm guessing you need to read the book to find out the whole story, but there is always a way .
It's sad, not only because of the loss, but because Lennie and Bailey never knew their mother or their fathers.
This is more of a ramble then a review, so bare with me.After reading this book, my emotions were kinda everywhere at once.There are a lot of different ways that people grieve when they loss someone they love.Lennie unconsciously and purposely explores her sexuality with not one but two guys in her life.
I had to go with Joe here, at least for awhile, I wasn't sure I could forgive Len at first either but then I realize that it wasn't ever about deep emotion with Toby, it was just to fill a void that they desperately needed to fill.
The characters are a little too sophisticated for their age - too articulate, too obsessed with reading "Wuthering Heights," playing "La Vie En Rose" and being hip, emo and literate; the romance is a little too intense with proclamations of undying love and plans of "deflowering" 3 days into the relationship; the feelings that border on hysterical with the main character throwing herself into grief and lust with an unprecedented gusto; and finally, the story itself is just so excessively sensual, too wrapped up in lust and obsession for my taste.
Jandy Nelson doesn't just write books—she creates dazzlingly beautiful, poetic masterpieces of words and images, which leave you breathless and shaken to your core, your mind spinning. Her second book,  I'll Give You the Sun  (see my review), still holds a place in my heart and my brain almost four years after I read it, and it made my list of the best books I read in 2014.I've always wanted to read her debut novel,  The Sky is Everywhere , but I've held back, because it made me happier knowing
(And I thought her second book was a tiny bit better than this one!)"I wonder why bereaved people even bother with mourning clothes when grief itself provides such an unmistakable wardrobe."Lennon—Lennie for short—is consumed with crushing grief after the death of her older sister, Bailey.
Suddenly their relationship is overcome by intense longing and passion, something that Lennie has never felt before, yet she isn't sure whether she actually wants Toby, or if being with him is a way of preserving her sister.
Nelson's storytelling fills you with emotion, makes you root for her characters, and just leaves you gasping with amazement at times because of her word choices and the feelings Lennie is experiencing.
This is the story of her journey through grief and loss, through teenage hormones and love, through family and friendship, in the quest to eventually find her true self and survive her sister's death.
Lennie, after her sister dies, starts to write little notes and poems to Bailey and about Bailey, snapshots of their life together.
1 star goes to the plot.This book is not about flawless characters - even though, end in end, it seems to be about flawless love and that's the part I liked least - because Lennie does many stupid things in the story.
This was such a let-down, especially after reading I'll give You the Sun, which was an immensely rich and beautiful book.
I don't understand how those two books can be so different, how one can be so impressive and the other one just weak.
Anyway, I'm glad I read I'll give You the Sun first, otherwise I would have never picked it up, as this was the biggest disappointment.
Here's why:- I couldn't connect with the characters- the romance was unrealistic and childish- the repetitions annoyed me (REALLY annoyed me!)- there was no plot whatsoever- the poems, that I liked in the beginning, started to tire me out- the main character was one-dimensional, stupid and boringAgain, I don't understand how one and the same author can write such different novels.
One of the funniest, most beautiful and most inspiring stories I’ve ever read about coping with grief and falling in love, about discovering oneself, strengthening the bond of friendship and sisterhood, and realizing who your genuine family is. I now clearly understand why so many of my friends have fallen in love with this book. I undeniably have as I have gone through all the symptoms of falling madly in love with a book.♣ Inability to put the book down.♣ Grinning like a buffoon and snorting a
One of the funniest, most beautiful and most inspiring stories I’ve ever read about coping with grief and falling in love, about discovering oneself, strengthening the bond of friendship and sisterhood, and realizing who your genuine family is.
Lol!)♣	Multitasking (grabbing a pen and the special notebook while holding the book to copy all those beautiful lines worth remembering)♣	Being surprised with the writing technique and creativity.♣	Wiping a few tears but definitely not bawling out.♣	That wild spark in my brain brought about by the connection between the story and the cover and title.
4 stars    “The sky is everywhere, it begins at your feet.”  The Sky is Everywhere by Jandy Nelson. YA book #2 in 2016. Jandy Nelson has this special writing style. It’s kind of odd (in the best way) and beautifully poetic. Her characters are a little out there and her stories are like nothing I’ve ever read before. The Sky is Everywhere is a powerful story of a young woman dealing with grief the best way she knows how.  “grief is a housewhere the chairshave forgotten how to hold usthe mirrors h
The Sky is Everywhere by Jandy Nelson.
Her characters are a little out there and her stories are like nothing I’ve ever read before.
The Sky is Everywhere is a powerful story of a young woman dealing with grief the best way she knows how.
The synopsis really tells you what this story is about- Lennie is grieving the loss of her sister.
I did not consider this a love triangle (if you read it, you’ll understand).
I loved both the guys, Joe and Toby.
I also really loved the grandma.
Best character in this book!
You could feel Toby, Gran and Big's pain as you watched each of them deal with their grief differently and Sarah's confusion and hurt as Lennie pushes her away.The romance in this book is that epic, forever, two souls connecting, kind of love.
It does happen somewhat fast but it works because of the writing that really expresses how Lennie feels when she is with Joe. And also because of Joe ('quel major dork', 'bat bat bat' - for those of you have read the book it will make sense).
I'M SORRY I JUST CAN'T DEAL WITH HOW PHENOMENAL THIS BOOK WAS.
I know everyone seems to love this author, but I just couldn't get into the story. The main character irritated me, there wasn't much of a plot, and everything felt a bit disconnected from reality. There were a few emotional moments or ideas, but otherwise I didn't care about very much. The book itself wasn't bad... just not anything I was able to enjoy.
*Lowered my rating to a 3 just because I hated the ending so much.I loved this so much for the first half but then I became excessively irritated with Lennie and I just couldn't handle it. Video review soon!
This book was seriously so wonderful. It deals with grief in a way that was so spot on and beautiful. Jandy Nelson has this superhuman ability to articulate really hard to explain emotions completely perfectly and its just the best.
Truthfully this really isn't even a review. IT's more of a list of questions and comments. SO if you actually like the book. I recommend turning away. Cause this is sort of a hate review. HATE/STRONGLY DISLIKE 1) Screwed up love triangle.2) Screwed up characters3) Screwed up plot4) I know that the character was grieving. But really? 5) Really?6) Setting ACTUALLY LIKE 1) Writing. It was really good and beautiful2) Dead sister OKAY 1) Concept (author maybe pulled it off)See that was my hate list.
Truthfully this really isn't even a review.
IT's more of a list of questions and comments.
SO if you actually like the book.
I recommend turning away.
Cause this is sort of a hate review.
HATE/STRONGLY DISLIKE
1) Screwed up love triangle.2) Screwed up characters3) Screwed up plot4) I know that the character was grieving.
5) Really?6) Setting
ACTUALLY LIKE
1) Writing.
It was really good and beautiful2) Dead sister
OKAY
1) Concept (author maybe pulled it off)See that was my hate list.
Any disagreements?
Okay yep theres a lot.
Maybe I'll give it another go in a couple years.
I breezed through this book in one sitting, and I’m still going over in my heart and in my mind all the emotions this book made me feel about the complexities of grief and loss.Surprisingly enough, there were moments this book had me laughing out loud… literally guffawing and I’m not one prone to bursting out in hysterics, but Lennie’s analogies and mental conflict, especially how she chose to express herself were truly hilarious at times.
She’s definitely a contender for my favorite female fictional characterIn this book, Lennie shares her story of her life at seventeen immediately after the sudden and tragic death of her older sister Bailey.
TBR Reduce Challenge #1- 2011: ArleneI'm so so so sorry Arlene, but I'm in 50% and I still don't like the book. I really tried.I don't sympathize with Lennie, I don't get her Toby thing, I don't feel her loss or her pain. It's like watching a movie without sound: you see what's happening, but you don't really get into it because something important is missing.I wanted to like this so much because so many of my friends loved this.
In-freaking-credible!!!!! If I could give this book a thousand stars, I would! Review later :)
I had (wrongfully) anticipated this to be a cute Summer read full of angsty teen romance and not much else.The story follows Lennie Walker as she attempts to cope with teenage life and its many multiplying predicaments following the death of her big sister, Bailey.I immediately felt an affinity and empathy with Lennie as, just two pages in, she professed her love for Wuthering Heights; my all-time favourite book!
I warmed to the entire story and could even forgive the emergence of the dreaded insta-love!Despite the touching subject-matter, there was levity and humour added to the text in the form of Lennie's Gram and Uncle Big. Her eccentric home life made me feel all fuzzy inside and I adored reading these sections especially.
tissue count: 7this book was so freakin fantastic, one of my new favorites. like, up-at-1:30-AM-crying-because-it's-so-good favorite
This book is really sad, and full of grief, but also hopeful, and uplifting? My emotions were all over the place, reading it, and I’m still not completely sure about my rating.Blog | Bloglovin’ | Tumblr | Instagram
Okay, so about half way through this book I felt like it was going to be a 2 star read for me.
I had major issues with the main charter, Lennie, and how she dealt with a lot of things.
I really loved Lennie’s Gram, she was wise, which added a lot of depth to the novel.
There is also a common theme in this book that was in I’ll Give You the Sun, and that is about life being messy and unpredictable.
Overall, (even though I didn’t enjoy it as much as I hoped) it was still an enjoyable read.
*3.5/5 stars.After I read I'll Give You The Sun last year and it easily became my favorite book of 2014, I obviously had high expectations for Jandy Nelson’s first book.
And while this book met most of my expectations, it certainly didn’t exceed them.Let me explain: Basically, I just didn't like and couldn't sympathize with the main character Lennie.
I also liked the way Lennie’s poems were integrated into the narrative.
They really fluctuated in quality though - some of them were really gorgeous, while others felt a bit childish and clumsy.I also enjoyed reading about all of the other characters that surrounded Lennie.
