https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140524.The_Unexpected_Mrs_Pollifax
On the whole I've listened to a lot of audio books I didn't care for much or liked only a little.That is not the case with Dorothy Gilman's Mrs. Pollifax...I'm not ordinarily a mystery fan, but these are wonderful books (and don't really fit "neatly" under the mystery heading).
Again I picked the first up for my wife to listen to, listened to it as I drove (my job involved a lot of driving) after she was finished with it, and found it fantastic.
In a plot that should strain the ability to suspend disbelief good story telling and humor not only saves all but drives the novel forward.
Review written May 17, 20164 Stars - A solid good old fashioned spy mystery with an unforgettable grey haired lovely lady.
I downloaded the 8:16 hrs audiobook (a 2010 edition) narrated by Barbara Rosenblat...
**********************************************« Mrs. Virgil (Emily) Pollifax of New Brunswick, New Jersey, was a widow with grown children.
Truly enjoying audiobook entertainment in the old school spy thriller genre.
Add a FANTASTIC narration from Mrs Rosenblat.
~ Even old housewife ladies perform great deeds and surprise you in the case of national security.**********************************************I LIKE - grannies with gunpowder
I love all the Dorothy Gilman books, the Mrs. Pollifax mystery series as well as her other books outside the famous series. I'm reading my way through a couple of dozen of them now, back-to-back.What fun.I adore her deep insights about all kinds of people and the spiritual phenomena we encounter in every day life.Her stories always reveal the value of various kinds of people society tends to ignore (unmarried, middle-aged, and elderly people as well as minorities, misfits, outcasts, ...).
This is the first one and I recommend them to ANYONE!^^I first read these books in Readers Digest Condensed when I was a teen and lived with my grandparents.
I loved it when a new book would come and it would have a Mrs. Pollifax book in it.
So it was with great pleasure when I was able to buy the series in paperback and have them all the time.
It was so good to read this again and revisit the world of Emily Pollifax.
I highly recommend these books to anyone who loves a little mystery and a lot of adventure.
Mrs. Pollifax.....a pleasant sixty-something widow from NJ who decides to ask the CIA if she can help her country as an inconspicuous spy. Written in 1966 with lots of Cold War complications, this was a fun little book. I'm sure I'll come back to this series when I need a change from darker novels.
It's taken me forever to read one of these Mrs. Pollifax books because I just didn't think a book could be entertaining enough for me with the heroin being an old lady.
But then my sister told me how much she loves these books and how wonderfully fun and charming they are...
she even lent me her entire collection to read (thanks, Mandy!) and I have been so delighted with these fun books and this charming character, Mrs. Pollifax.
I couldn't have been more wrong or narrow-minded!
It's so fun getting to read about all her adventures and the laughs are plentiful.
I love well-developed and interesting characters and Mrs. Pollifax excels on both counts.This was fun and extremely well-written (imagine Miss Marple joining the CIA and you'll get a sense of what this book is about.) It's classified as a mystery but it's really much more than that.I don't exactly recall how I came across this series (which first came out in the '80s) on Goodreads but I'm thrilled that I did. As an added, bonus when I purchased the first book it came as part of a three book collection and I'm quite looking forward to reading the others.
Wonderful. Unexpected.At 63 years of age, Mrs. Pollifax is a little over her life and thinks back to the days when she wanted to be a spy! The rest is the story of the unexpected Mrs. Pollifax. Thoroughly enjoyable spy novel with a twist. I will have to read the rest of these soon.
Cute story (from the Cold War years) about an elderly widow who is bored and decides she wants to become a spy.
Through a misunderstanding at the CIA office, she's given an assignment that's meant for a "real" spy and the rest is...Well, the rest requires major suspension of disbelief (including her being able to just waltz into the CIA building) but that's okay.
I listened to the audio book and found the narrator to be as likable as Mrs. Polifax herself.
I'll probably continue with this series and will most likely also continue with the audio book versions.Don't be put off by my rating.
Three stars is a good book in my personal rating system.
Very enjoyable - if rather on the far fetched side. I'll definitely read more about Mrs. P
When I first saw one of the books in the Mrs. Pollifax series, I assumed it was another cozy mystery.
Now that I've read it, I wouldn't necessarily call it a cozy "mystery" series, but it certainly is a fun spy novel.
This first book in the series shows us how an unassuming Mrs. Emily Pollifax leaves her elderly suburban life to depart on a spy adventure in Mexico.
Overall, I found this to be a very fun, quick read and I will certainly read more of the stories in this series.
3  stars. I really enjoyed the beginning and the end. The middle was not as good.THE MIDDLE:It was mostly scene after scene of oh my this bad thing is happening, what will we do, oh, quick do that, gee, we barely made it. I’m not sure why I didn’t enjoy this part. Maybe I would have liked more personality interaction instead of a series of bad things being thrown at them.THE BEGINNING AND END:I loved it. I was laughing. Here’s this little old lady walking into the CIA offices and saying “I want
I really enjoyed the beginning and the end.
The middle was not as good.THE MIDDLE:It was mostly scene after scene of oh my this bad thing is happening, what will we do, oh, quick do that, gee, we barely made it.
Maybe I would have liked more personality interaction instead of a series of bad things being thrown at them.THE BEGINNING AND END:I loved it.
Here’s this little old lady walking into the CIA offices and saying “I want to be a spy.” The guy is slack jawed and speechless.
Second: I did not like her fragile little old lady voice for Mrs. Pollifax.
Wow, Mrs. Pollifax has a dangerously exciting time...
what fun it is to read this once again!mrs pollifax will surely never grow old on me;looking forward to her next adventurei don't get the piñata, thoughp14: carstairs had unalterable fath in tirpak's ingenuity, and if tirpak said the microfilms would arrive in mexico city between the twelfth and the eighteenth then the microfilms would be there.p46: "i've lived a very sheltered life," she explained, "and you do have a rather--well, i don't think i've known anyone--i mean, you look as it you'd done some rum things, you see."
I love stories with lots of action and adventure (and this story is packed with non-stop action and adventure) I love stories where the characters travel around a lot and see a lot of different places (from the US to Mexico to Albania to the Adriatic Sea is a great whirlwind of a journey!) but what I love most of all is the character of Mrs. Pollifax.Adventure stories - especially those of the time period in which this book was written - are usually the domain of the strong, dapper young male adventurer.
Recently I discovered these books on audio narrated by the wonderful Barbara Rosenblat, and I find them perfect to listen to as I drive, exercise, or especially late at night when I can't sleep.What makes these stories so good?
But as you read these books you realize she isn't at all expendable - in fact the world needs more people like Emily Pollifax - more people who care about their world and the people in it, who will put themselves at risk to help others, who will take the time to appreciate the world around them.
:)NB- Both DD and I had trouble at first with the audio-books, as Mrs. P sounds old in them.
Even though I knew she (and Farrell) would make it out of their various predicaments- this is book 1 of 14- Dorothy Gilman made the journey feel perilous and exciting.
One of my favorite things about Mrs. Polifax is that, while she was smart and observant, she didn't become a super spy overnight.
The story dragged a bit when Gilman got too descriptive and I wish we had spent a bit more time on the denouement, but it was great so I won't complain.
If you enjoy Miss Marple, you'll like her American counterpart Mrs. Pollifax.
The Mrs. Pollifax series were more suspenseful than I believed it would be, seeing how the heroine of the novel is in her 60s.
However, that's part of the books--most people underestimate Mrs. Pollifax.
This is the first book in the series, where Mrs Pollifax--deciding that she wasn't satisfied with her normal life--goes to the CIA and asks to become a spy.
She is confused with being the courier spy the government needed, and she finds herself suddenly pushed into the world of espionage.
This is a good rainy day book.
Let me tell you about dear Mrs. Pollifax.
She is a widow with grown children and grandchildren, and she feels like she has outlived her usefulness.
What's a woman like Mrs. Pollifax to do?
Well, go after her childhood dream of working for the CIA of course.While I might have found her story far fetched in many circumstances, I ended up being convinced that if anyone could do the things that Mrs. Pollifax did in this book, it would have indeed been Mrs. Pollifax.With a slew of interesting and likable characters, and a plot set in 1960's, I ended up on team Mrs. P and look forward to more in the series.
I'm listening to this for the pleasure of both revisiting a beloved character and the excellence of Barbara Rosenblat's narration. My mother would bring home the latest from the grocery store and it would get passed around. We all enjoyed Mrs. Pollifax's personality and ingenuity, as well as the author's talent for weaving a spy novel with a light touch.I reread these so many times that the plot is coming back to me, several decades later, but I'm enjoying them immensely anyway.
This was my fourth or fifth time reading this first Mrs. Pollifax book since I was introduced to the series in the 1970s, and I still love it! Despite the fact that I know the plot so well that there are no surprises, I enjoy the characters and situations.If you like spy books with a sense of humor, I would recommend this series.
So she decides she'd like to be a spy.
and due to things lining up just right, she is chosen for what should be a simple courier job in Mexico City.When that job goes wrong and she ends up kidnapped and taken to Albania, well, that's when things get interesting.Though implausible, her adventures as an amateur spy are pretty amusing.
A lot of the politics are dated (Yugoslavia exists, Red China is referenced multiple times); and there is some troublesome language that would probably be edited out today (referring to an Asian person as "an Oriental", etc).
Always a pleasure, and definitely more plausible and better-written than some of the later entries.I was fortunate to meet Ms Gilman a number of years ago, while she was touring to promote Mrs Pollifax and the Lion Killer.
I told her that I've gone back to some of her books three or four times, and she said, "There's no better compliment than that."She told a charming story about how Mrs P.
Mrs Pollifax was a kind of wish fulfillment, an older woman who sets out competently to find new worth and work in the world.
3 1/2 starsI loved the premise of this story. I found the character of Mrs. Pollifax to be quite endearing, and at times the book was terrific. At others it read too much like “The Perils of Pauline” for the over fifty set.
I had read this before, long enough ago to have forgotten many of the details, and I enjoyed it just as much this time. A lovely way to while away the hours waiting out a layover.Popsugar challenge 2017: a book you've read before that never fails to make you smile.
It lagged my interest in a couple places but then I got invested in the story and strove on with it.
She's an odd quirky character that you don't quite know what you are getting in for.
It's also a little different direction it ends up going than you expect it to, or at least it was for me.
My expectations and the story weren't quite on track which is a good thing.
It's hard to tell recently.
But it was enjoyable and you root for the character so what more could you want?
We get the whole panoply of types – the steely-eyed, square-jawed secret agent who calls our heroine “Duchess,” the squinty-eyed oriental, Godless communist villains, Red Chinese...
Our heroine, the “unexpected” Mrs. Pollifax, to all appearances a fluffy little old lady, is, of course, endlessly plucky and resourceful, and the tough, ruthless spies and super-villains she encounters just can't stop marveling over her and staring at her in awed surprise.
This is a quick read, and, read as a sort of James Bond spoof, weirdly entertaining.
I wouldn't read another in the series, but I've certainly read worse.
There is quite a lot of bad language in this book, no F-bombs, but a ton of "D***" "H***" and taking God's name in vain.
I was surprised by how many instances of bad language there were, but I suppose since this is a secular read I should have expected that.
I don't cuss, but people in my family do, so as I'm reading my brain just kind of automatically filters those words out of a book before they can offend me, though it does tick me off when those words keep popping up.
However, I'm giving this three stars because it was overall a fun storyline.
I kept thinking that this was a book for the Murder She Wrote crowd and Mrs. Pollifax, in my mind, looked just like Angela Landsbury.
Imagine when I found out after reading the book that it WAS made into a made-for-TV movie starring none other than ANGELA LANDSBURY!!
Craziness.This book series is well-beloved and that is wonderful but it just wasn't my particular cup of tea.
It didn't hold my interest as it wasn't really a mystery but more of a spy tale sans mystery.
If you liked the show Murder She Wrote you will probably thoroughly enjoy it.My Rating: Okay...but not for me.
Mrs. Pollifax has long been a favorite road trip companion.
This book explains how the bored 60 something widowed retiree got hired by the CIA as a courier.
Of course, nothing is ever simple when Mrs. Pollifax is involved and she soon becomes a prisoner in an Albanian jail.This series was written 3 decades ago and I usually have to google to find out the context of the international conflict of the time.
I didn't know that.Emily Pollifax is clever, resourceful and charming.
The book is entertaining and unexpected.
