https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16241198-service-with-a-smile
Bill Bailey's attempted marriage to Myra Schoonmaker doesn't go as planned and Myra is whisked away to Blandings Castle to prevent her from marrying him, a penniless curate.
Fortunately, Uncle Fred takes Bailey to Blandings under an alias and goes about spreading happiness and light as only he can...Throwing Uncle Fred into the Blandings Castle is like throwing torches at an oil soaked Transylvanian house.
Uncle Fred weaves an elaborate tapestry of lies, much like in his previous visit to Blandings, Uncle Fred in the Springtime.
All of the Blandings crew are in top form, as is the incomparable Uncle Fred.
Lord Ickenham (aka Uncle Fred) is an incurable optimist.
Stifled love is in the air and Uncle Fred's the man to clear it!A prize winning pig doted upon by its doddering owner, an underhanded and ambitious secretary, a cantankerous brute of a Duke, love-lorn young folk, a camera-weilding boy with a voice like an electric razor, a beefy boxing curate, and more fill the pages with hilarity, but it's Lord Ickenham who grabs the limelight every time.
However, Ickenham's scheming provides enough unexpected twists to keep you entertained, as one comes to expect from a steady reading of Wodehouse's stock story lines.
The books a re just a delight to lose yourself in, and they never disappoint!
In this one, Uncle Fred is once more needed to spread sweetness and light (with a smile, of course) and is called on to untangle a rather large number of messes the inhabitants and guests of his friend Lord Emsworth's ancestral home have gotten themselves in.
This time he has to foil a pig-napping, prevent a bit of blackmail here and there, help three sets of unfortunate lovers to the altar with the right person, and solve any number of bothersome little things that just so happen wherever he goes in his incomparable way.
I love it:  "Of Frederick Altamont Cornwallis Twistleton, fifth Earl of Ickenham, a thoughtful critic had once said that in the late afternoon of his life he retained, together with a juvenile waistline, the bright enthusiasms and fresh, unspoiled outlook of a slightly inebriated undergraduate..."  What I love about Wodehouse's world is that the rich uptight guy always gets it somehow in the eye, the young lovers have a silly fight and yet end up together, and the butler often comes off a few pounds ahead of when he started.
If only real life were like that.
PG Wodehouse is so highly regarded by many readers that there must be something to him.But having read only two, Dr Sally and this one Service with a Smile, I find myself thinking these stories are enjoyable, well written, contain some amusing lines and pass the time amiably enough.
Lord Ickenham (Uncle Fred), with ‘Cuthbert’ (really Bill Bailey) in tow, goes to Blandings Castle, presided over by Lady Constance who provides guidance to her brother Clarence, Lord Emsworth, whose singular focus is directed towards the wellbeing and comfort of the Empress, an enormous prize-winning sow, in turn the object of nefarious criminal designs by among others, the Duke of Dunstable, conspicuously lacking in social skills, who spends his time in stately homes, usually uninvited.
4.5 stars for this audiobook edition, narrated by Martin Jarvis. While I still have a slight preference to hear my Wodehouse narrated by Jonathan Cecil, Jarvis did an excellent job with this 9th entry in the Blandings Castle series. This one not only had Lord Emsworth & his pig but also Uncle Fred -- a delightful combination!
Poor Lord Emsworth is beset with problems: he has a new horrid secretary Miss Biggs who makes Baxter look nice; the castle grounds are full of camping boys causing noise and mischief and the Duke of Dunstable has invited himself to Blandings and still thinks the Empress is making Lord Emsworth potty.
In order to do that he has to use some underhanded methods to make things come out right.This book was too long on thwarted lovers and too light on pigs.
I wanted to like her because she's a strong female character.

I re-read Wodehouse regularly just to cheer myself up...
When I am down in the dumps, or merely feeling blue, it's always a Wodehouse book that I pick up.
I can never forget the delight that I experienced when i first started on a Wodehouse in my mid 20s, I told my sister with great surprise, "This is hilarious!" and she smiled knowingly, having been a devout Wodehouseian since the 15 years at least.
This isn't quite a book review, I know, but my feelings after reading the book, so there!
This marks my 77th book this year, and by Golly, hopefully not my last by Wodehouse!
Review to come!
"Lord Ickenham whistled softly. Never a dull moment at Blandings Castle, he was thinking." Indeed. Lots of fun hi-jinks and hilarity once again at Blandings. One of the best things about Wodehouse books is the character names. In this one we have: Lavender Briggs, George Cyril Wellbeloved, Frederick Altamont Cornwallis Twistleton, and one of my favorites, Pongo Twistleton.
Another gem from Wodehouse. I actually feel sorry for people who don't get him. He is a true wordsmith. He makes me smile, chuckle and even laugh out loud. He always amazes me with his dialogue.A perfect prescription when life gets you down.
A super quick read and a whole lot of fun!
This book gets a five for Wodehouse comic genius and a two for horrible narration. Lambert is as bad as Frederick Davidson, my other least favorite narrator.
Brilliant! A labyrinthine plot worthy of the best mystery writers and rib tickling humor. Uncle Fred saves the day, spreading sweetness and light at Blandings, foiling the evil designs of all and sundry.
The ninth Earl of Emsworth was becoming like a man besieged at Blandings Castle.
Just reread this.
It is great.
If it isn't as good as a Jeeves and Wooster it is close.
It is one of the books I would recommend if a person.
Was going to read only one Wodehouse novel.
It is Plum at his best.Loved Wodehouse for years.
Once read most of the Jeeves and Wooster stories.
Lately have been reading Douglas Adams.
There aren't many Adams books and there won't be any more, him being dead for over a decade, and all.
So, I'm trying to scratch the itch of wanting more Adams by reading Wodehouse.
There are similarities.
"It's not that I don't trust you, Dunstable, it's simply that I don't trust you" -- Lord Ickenham aka Uncle FredThis, the last of the Blandings series, finds the lovable Lord Ickenham dropping in to offer advice, help the lovelorn, and foil a pig-napping. This is yet another top-notch Wodehouse novel. One begins to question why one would read anyone else.
While I enjoyed this tale, I have a weird feeling I'm likely to read it again in a few years having forgotten I read it. And that's no slam against Wodehouse, but rather, his imitators.
This is particular book is of light hearted humor depicting how various characters of the story in distress due to trifling issues are helped by ever altruistic ‘Lord Ickenham’ who sometimes is perceived as being altruistic bordering on being indulgent in other characters’ personal affairs.
This book is quintessential of how a sequential comedy of errors is of consequence mutually solving each and every character’s problems towards the end with the help of Lord Ickenham.The story starts with the introduction of the inhabitants and the annoying visitors of Blanding’s Castle whose crises are presented in a humorous manner.
The plot is labyrinthine so that even the good old Earl of Ickenham has to retire to his hammock on several occasions to puzzle a way out of difficulties which seem - like population - to increase exponentially.
The Earl of Emsworth surprised this reader, which he has not done since he first appeared in 1915.
Until now.The small boy George is another surprise.
Usually they act as blackmailers and tale-tellers spreading unwanted noise, dirt and jam everywhere, as indeed they do in real life.
He has, however, one peculiarity; he likes the Duke of Dunstable!
The simplicity of the book leaves you with a warmth which makes you smile as you realise how intricately uncle Fred has managed to help everybody without causing long lasting damage to anyone.
One of the lines I loved “The author of the well-known hymn had been in saying that peace, perfect peace to be attained only when loved ones are far away”The backdrop of Blandings,where P G Wodehouse has created such a simple, down to earth life’s of people that you feel safe and comforted the moment you start reading.
I love Wodehouse's Blandings books, in which convoluted problems are untangled over a series of peaceful sunny afternoons.
This one is a little different.
There's a bunch of characters who come on quickly, staying for just long enough for Uncle Fred to dispatch their problems efficiently, with hardly enough time to get to know any of them.
(The character dwelt on the most was the fairly unlikable Duke of Dunstable.) While other Wodehouses leave you with a feeling of satisfaction as everything is sorted out by the end, this one leaves you breathless, like you've just run through a checklist at high speed.
I generally love Wodehouse's works, but this character, Uncle Fred, is not his best.
In this novel Uncle Fred came off as not very bright.
He'd ask questions about things that were very obvious.
He tried to help, but seems stupid with no intuition.
Perhaps that is his character?
Like Wooster?
But in Wooster's case, it's adorable.
Here it was just annoying, sad to say.
(view spoiler)[ Was it enough for Emsworth that the tents had collapsed on them?
Won't they just get new tents and continue to stay on the premises?
(hide spoiler)]I wouldn't recommend it.
I listened to the audiobook (6 cds) and probably would have enjoyed the book better if I had read it to myself. The narrator is a talented voice actor but the characters were so over-acted and buffoonish. I’m sure that is the goal with this book in the first place, but I just wasn’t up for that much goofiness. It’s stereotypical British comedy.
Uncle Fred is back to save the day, uniting loving hearts and foiling a pig-stealing operation (hence that awful cover). Can't say anything about this novel that I haven't said about all the others. The man knew what he was doing.
It really is funny! Delightful to know that it's a series and there are many more books written about the characters.Ickenham is special though, so I'm not sure if the other books will be as entertaining.Recommended for any fan of Fry and Laurie or Blackadder humour.
Another solid Wodehouse. A great read in snatch instalments as there is a preposterous knotty layer in every chapter.
Another of the run of the mill Blandings novels. Light reading for time-pass.
