https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2078671.Mortal_Coils
Huxley is a writer who knows acid, and these five short stories have it abundantly. I have rated them out of 5 µg's of acid. This is not a measure of merit...and it's the wrong kind of acid but...The Gioconda Smile (µg µg µg) - heavy with irony, and later made into a movie, Huxley the screenwriter.   Huxley is hilarious in his descriptions:What a queer face she had! That small mouth pursed forward by the Gioconda expression into a little snout with a round hole in the middle as though for whistl
Huxley is a writer who knows acid, and these five short stories have it abundantly.
This is not a measure of merit...and it's the wrong kind of acid but...The Gioconda Smile (µg µg µg) - heavy with irony, and later made into a movie, Huxley the screenwriter.
Huxley is hilarious in his descriptions:What a queer face she had!
That small mouth pursed forward by the Gioconda expression into a little snout with a round hole in the middle as though for whistling—it was like a penholder seen from the front.
The penholder might do its Gioconda trick, but the eyes never altered in their earnestness.
“For in that sleep of death, what dreams may come,When we have shuffled off this mortal coil…”  Hamlet :  William Shakespeare Aldous Huxley was a master of subtle irony. But he was capable to make his irony so exquisite and venomous that he could kill with a single phrase.Photographs of Greek statuary, photographs of the Roman Forum, coloured prints of Italian masterpieces, all very safe and well known. Poor, dear Janet, what a prig what an intellectual snob! Her real taste was illustrated in th
Poor, dear Janet, what a prig what an intellectual snob!
Her real taste was illustrated in that water-colour by the pavement artist, the one she had paid half a crown for (and thirty-five shillings for the frame).
She made you feel that part of his glory had entered into Janet Spence when she tendered him that halfcrown for the copy of the oleograph.
A genuine Old Master for half a crown.
Poor, dear Janet!Mortal Coils is a collection of five fine sarcastic stories about the commotion and petty vanity of living.We all come to the vanity fair to have some fun but we are forced to take things as they come.
After reading Huxley's Crome Yellow, "Mortal Coils" followed in my Kindle edition.
After reading "Mortal Coils" and "Crome Yellow" I get more of a sense what kind of writer, he was and his vast ability to tap into the human being with all its pathos, goodness, evilness and yes, self centeredness.
In thinking about who he reminds me of it is Irene Nemirovsky because her characters seem to show there bare self at times.That being said there are 5 short stories here."Mortal coil is a poetic term for the troubles of daily life and the strife and suffering of the world.
Brilliantly written, sad, acid, and ironic little stories about the human condition.'MORTAL COILS is a short-story collection from Huxley's early period, including one of his most popular stories, "The Gioconda Smile." '
Classic Huxley
I gotta say, what joy it is to read regular novels again after "A Suitable Boy".
I feel like I've shrugged off a massive cape and can now go running around happily in normal sized novels.
As someone who thinks of Roald Dahl as a short story God, I find Huxley's stories to be underwhelming.
I like my short stories to have punch and clarity, and I lacked that with most of these.
I still adore you Huxley, but I think I'll stick to your novels and essays from now on.
Though I promise to give these stories another read to see if they improve with time.
5 very early stories by Huxley, which show once more that he could write straightforward narratives that weren't simply philosophical dialogues, and that he could see the silliness and pomposity of intellectuals. "The Giaconda Smile" is an Agatha Christie yarn dispatched simply and efficiently, whilst "The Tillotson Banquet" is a superb dark comedy about ambition and reputation and the personalities of the culture racket. "Green Tunnels" meanders about amongst some dull English tourists in Italy but does have some highly acute topical observation of the emerging Fascisti (in 1922) and their attractiveness to the bourgeois of other countries.
Mortal Coils is a collection of five short stories written by Aldous Huxley, published in 1921.
The first, The Gioconda Smile, is probably the most memorable - an entertaining social satire and murder mystery.
Next we have Permutations Among The Nightingales (a play following the various romantic difficulties of a group of hotel guests), followed by The Tillotson Banquet (a story about an old artist, who was assumed to be dead before being re-discovered living in poverty), Green Tunnels (a story about a bored young girl on holiday with her family) and, finally, Nuns at Luncheon (a story about a nun falling in love).
Personally I didn't enjoy these as much as I'd enjoyed some of Huxley's full-length novels, but there are worse ways to pass the time.
The early Huxley short stories and plays in this collection are good but not great. I suppose they were more original at the time.
Contains some occasionally great prose work, although half of it was ultimately uninteresting. That, or I was too tired to appreciate it at the time.
Poetic with many allusions to paintings, caustic and entertaining. Fine dialogue all around. A modest collection, my edition was just 114 pages, so it’s a quick read. I especially enjoyed "The Gioconda Smile,” but they all hit their mark.
The first story "The Gioconda Smile" is often anthologized so this is my second time reading it.
This time, the story impressed me more about the framed man's own existential nihilism and his gathering-up spiritually when he is doomed by the Gioconda who smiled ever so convincingly before.
His shuffling off his "mortal coil" has a tinge of stoic-heroic resolution, a preferred state that his apathetic indifference in living.
The second one is a play of blithe comedy and social satire.
Nothing very profound.The rest of the stories are skipped due the corruption of the e-book.
May re-read at some later point.
Enjoyable stories and impeccable style, as expected. I loved "The Tillotson Banquet" (perhaps even moreso as a daughter of a painter) but skipped "Permutations amog the Nightingales" as I truly hate reading drama format. "Green Tunels" is beautiful and Barbara is a great character - the kind I don't come across too often. She reminds me of Alice. "Nuns at Luncheon" was amazing, I loved the meta-narration and the subtle shepherding of imagination. Huxley's philosophies, as always, fascinate and heavily influence me. Sadly he didn't express too many in this piece.
I really enjoy Aldous Huxley. His literature takes me a while to piece together, because his descriptions and language don't read like modern text. Some of these stories have a very Lovecraftian vibe to them, which seems appropriate. These stories are pretty far removed from his Brave New World feel. I'd recommend this if you like Huxley in general, but beyond that I'm not sure what you'd get out of it.
All five of these stories were confusing and difficult to read -- not because of the archaic cultural references and early 20th century writing style, but because they appeared not to be edited for clarity. The Gioconda Smile was the only one that made sense.
Really liked in particular the story of the Tillotson banquet.. Especially loved the reoccurring allusions to painters and fine art in all of the stories.. All seemed to have unexpected twists and are written in Huxley's classic poetic and enticing stylings. Was really enjoyable to read.
good in parts but very abstract and you don't know why he chose thissubject.were conditions that bad those days?
I missed Chrome.
Not much to say about this one. Enjoyed reading the stories, but none stuck.
Simply stated...Aldous Huxley's collection of short stories are superb!
Mostly empty narratives hold back a peerless writing style that overflows with poetry and expression.
interesting to read these stories even though they are each a bit dated ... the idea of how we behave with each other and then we die remains a stalwart topic for good writing
