https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/335309.A_Common_Faith
Dewey succinctly shows how the seat of intellectual authority has shifted away from religion, in turn altering society's organization.
The religious crowd mistakenly attributes their loss of influence to rebellious worldly hearts or quibbles with particulars, when the issue (the intellectual issue, at least) is the entire method of knowing.
Churchmen may offer "polite deference" to that method but remain "in a confused and divided state," "riding two horses that are going in opposite directions."The skeptical crowd mistakenly concludes that mystic experience is bunk, when the issue is why it occurs, not whether.
It remains to weld all these things together."These facts have "crowded the social importance of organized religions into a corner and the area of this corner is decreasing....
This particular book outlines a plan on how best to educate our youngsters for a functional social democracy.
What works is determined by a given political/social system, and so truth is determined by ideology, and not vice versa.Dewey's political preference is social democracy.
Nevertheless, Dewey likes the religious, because the religious instills in people the zeal needed to accomplish the social engineering required for a socially democratic utopia.
You just decide that religion does not work and discard it, but you keep the carmel-nougaty goodness of the religious zeal and just attach it to the social democratic endeavors that, once realized, will usher in the Age of Aquarius and the Obama Presidency.
A call for compassion and cooperation between people who believe in the supernatural and those who don't.
Dewey proposed a faith that has nothing to do with the supernatural, but that would use the tools of religion in the service of humanity and help us to better our condition as a community.
But the idea reminds me of Esperanto, the constructed language.
It's still spoken by a small number of people, but it never became the international language that its creator wanted it to be.
In other words, people's faiths, like their languages, are part of the ground they walk on.
For example, the "golden age of American philosophy" of the early 20th century resulted in William James' "The Varieties of Religious Experience", Josiah Royce's "The Problem of Christianity" and William Ernest Hocking's "The Meaning of God in Human Experience", three difficult and searching explorations of religious questions and their relationship to science and contemporary culture.Another outstanding study of religious questions by an American thinker is John Dewey's "A Common Faith" (1934) based upon the Terry Lectures on Religion in Light of Science and Philosophy Dewey delivered at Yale.
Compelling ideas on the merits and possibilities of a humanist faith, but deeply eurocentric in its execution.
Religious experiences of human intelligence (not of divine) to inspire human freedom. Writes like a German. Or a capable translation of a bag German philosopher.
Just because the release of these values is so important, their identification with the creeds and cults of religions must be dissolved." (28) He rejects the existence of a supernatural Being, and conceives of God as the unification of ideal possibilities through imaginative realization and projection.
. The idealizing imagination seizes upon the most precious things found in the climatic moments of experience and projects them." (48) His rejection of the objective existence of a divine, supernatural Being and formulation of religious value as a projection of human ideals, places his thinking in line with previous philosophers such as Hegel, Feuerbach, Marx and Nietzsche.
I think this marked the start of my quest for meaning and spirituality without religion. It was recommended by my brother.
For me this is one of the greatest philosophy of religion book in the 20th century. Dewey assimilation of evolutionary theory with spiritual development is brilliant.
One of the best book for understanding the difference between 'religion' and 'religious'. It presents a comprehensive case for the separation of church and state.
Dewey states "[t]here is but one sure road to the truth - the road of patient, COOPERATIVE INQUIRY operating by means of observation, experiment, record and CONTROLLED REFLECTION." I also found the following passage on page 51 to be very penetrating, as he states that "[t]here exists concretely and experimentally goods." These "goods" he also couples with "values".
Dewey’s goal, it seems, is to show that one may have experiences that give perspective to life, and consequently unify it, without using the muddy concepts of religious language.Critiques of Dewey: I do not know what it means to unify a self as a self.
I understand that many people may think that religion has something supernatural as its object of faith (2), but I do not expect anything differently from a scientific society, and perhaps this is why supernaturalism is not explicated further.Positive Integrative Thoughts on Dewey:Dewey was useful in the sense that he laid out a possibility for scientific humanity to have religious experiences without an organized religion.
Morals are intellectual truths that can only be grasped through divine faith.
Dewey wants to break morality from the realm of theology and bring it into our quotidian lives, where social intelligence should control decision making and provide a spark for positive social change.
Additionally, there is room for a religious attitude that utilizes scientific understanding and social knowledge as its mode of doing good for oneself and for others.
It is highly possible that intellectual assent to the divine may be a way to bolster one's scientific understandings of the society that we live in.
In A Common Faith (1934), Dewey argues that we must separate “religion” from the “religious” in order to act most effectively for social change.
Dewey defines the “religious” as an intellectual and emotional attitude or orientation that moves individuals to actively pursue pro-social ideals established and verified by human experience.
Therefore, Dewey wants to entirely separate the “religious” from “religion.”Dewey’s motivating concern is his belief that we are members of a “continuous human community.” The benefits of civilization were made possible because the people who came before us acted in accordance with their ideals about human relationships, and we have a responsibility to at least pass on, if not expand, this “heritage of values” for future generations.
In any case, A Common Faith is about religious experience and Dewey claims to have written it after having one, but the events he describes are more broadly accessible (at least personally) than the “calling” many people of faith describe, since Dewey doesn’t rely on a specific explanation (i.e. the supernatural/God) to account for the cause of these events.
Often, when I talk to people who self describe as Christian, I’m left with the impression that the narrative through which they interpret their own religious experience is very important, so much so that to examine the cause of that experience; to call into question the source of that ensuing happiness, is to threaten its very existence.
This little book is considered by many mainstream pragmatists to be one of Dewey's worst works. However I disagree. This is the most revealing book that Dewey penned during his long career. Larry Hickman gets his idea of "benign supernaturalism" from A Common Faith. Dewey and the pragmatists sought to establish the fact/value distinction rigidly in 20th century America. That comes out over and again in Faith. However the real problem is of a mimetic function. It is better to mimic the objective scientist, than the evangelical, according to Dewey.
This is a great book, and for its brevity (under 100 pages) is a stirring account of what it could be to be a religious naturalist--someone who no longer credits supernaturalism, but who experiences transformative religious passion in relation with the human community and the wider natural world. It remains as relevant as it was prescient when Dewey produced it in the mid-1930s.
Religion vs Religious is interesting, but he misunderstands mysticism to an absurd degree and is pushing to make religion a social/political/economic force, which to me is inane.
