https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11299.After_the_Quake
In response to the deadliest Kobe earthquake and the most enduring psychological consequences of the crisis, Haruki Murakami crafts six remarkable stories. Though the central characters evade the physical devastation, Haruki Murakami's exploration sheds light on the Japanese national conscience.  No matter how far you travel, you can never get away from yourself.  I find incredible solace in Murakami's words. I always have.

This was my first time reading Haruki Murakami's writing, and I was indeed more than intrigued and impressed. The six stories in this mesmerizing collection are set at the time of the catastrophic 1995 Kobe earthquake, when Japan became brutally aware of the fragility of its daily existence. But the upheavals that afflict Murakami’s characters are even deeper and more mysterious, emanating from a place where the human meets the inhuman.My two favorite stories: thailand & honey pie. thailand:
A lot of events occur over the course of Satsuki's story, when she ends up having her dreams foretold, which is one of my favorite things in books:“She says that there is a stone inside your body.
She does not know where it came from.”“A stone?” Satsuki asked.“There is something written on the stone, but she cannot read it because it is in Japanese: small black characters of some kind.
Sayoko turned her head just a bit, and the left hand came out holding a white bra—a small one with no wires.
My favorite Murakami short story of all time is "The Kidney Shaped Stone That Moves Everyday." So when I realized halfway through the last story in After the Quake that the main character was the same one from "Kidney Shaped Stone," it was as if the planets had aligned, the clouds parted and a single shaft of sunlight shot down to bathe me in a golden glow; everything was perfect in the universe.
After the Quake was so brilliant that I didn't want the stories to end, and when they did, I felt like I was saying good-bye to a dear friend.
“No matter how far you travel, you can never get away from yourself.”The Great Hanshin earthquake or Kobe earthquake occurred on 17th January 1995 and affected over a million lives in the southern part of the Hyōgo Prefecture.
The loss of almost 6500 lives and the ruins of Kobe left a bruise at the country's core.After the Quake doesn't chronicle the events of the earthquake, although all its stories have a vague connection to the disaster.
However, instead of putting his characters at the very core of the disaster and writing about it, Murakami chooses to write about the nation's response and the weight on its conscience to showcase the earthquake's impact.
آقا من موراکامی رو دوست دارم! ینی اگه تکتک این داستانها رو یکی برام تعریف کنه، میگم عه چقد خنک. اما وقتی موراکامی مینویسه چنان درگیر جزییات و شخصیتپردازی و معنا میشه که دیگه واویلا. بعد شکست عشقی رو من اینجا خوردم. همین جا، توی گودریدز که فهمیدم دوتا داستان این مجموعه نیومده! نمیدونم کدوم رو خوندم، درواقع صوتی گوش دادم. اما بازم اجرای زیبای حسین آزادی عزیز شکست عشقیمو زدود. :دیاز همه بیشتر داستان شیرینی عسل رو دوست داشتم. بقیه رو هم دوست داشتم و خوبیِ کتاب صوتی اینه که هروقت بخوای میتونی برگردی
آقا من موراکامی رو دوست دارم!
اما وقتی موراکامی می‌نویسه چنان درگیر جزییات و شخصیت‌پردازی و معنا می‌شه که دیگه واویلا.
بعد شکست عشقی رو من اینجا خوردم.
همین جا، توی گودریدز که فهمیدم دوتا داستان این مجموعه نیومده!
نمی‌دونم کدوم رو خوندم، درواقع صوتی گوش دادم.
اما بازم اجرای زیبای حسین آزادی عزیز شکست عشقی‌مو زدود.
:دیاز همه بیشتر داستان شیرینی عسل رو دوست داشتم.
بقیه رو هم دوست داشتم و خوبیِ کتاب صوتی اینه که هروقت بخوای می‌تونی برگردی گوش بدی باز.+ اول چار دادم اما وقتی دوتا داستانش نیست، واقعاً زیادیه!
I'm forever waiting to be disappointed by one of his books--I mean, the guy can't be PERFECT, can he?
This slim little volume of short stories (only six of them in all), all loosely connected to the 1995 Kobe earthquake, didn't garner as much critical acclaim as some of Murakami's other books.
And, to be honest, the first couple of stories were just okay--solid, but not what I would necessarily call "genius", which is what I always expect from this guy.
But then I read the last two stories.
And so, seven or eight books into his oeuvre, this guy's still perfect.
"After the Quake" offers six short stories, which have one common point: Kobe earthquake in 1995.
At the same time, each of the short stories is like a separate story with its characters and world.
To tell the truth I feel a little bit unsettled about this book, because it is definitely new, strange and unusual for me.“UFO in Kushiro,” is quite a strange start with a dull and passive main character.
I can't tell for sure what the story means.“Landscape with Flatiron" concentrates on existential questions with old-young point of view through the creating-destroying fire.
I enjoyed this short read.
This book held multiple short stories that were all very different but shared the same theme.
Every main character was someone that was a "nobody." They were shy, didn't have many friends, and no specific talents.
However, by the end of the story they meant something to someone and they had done something "interesting" with their life.I also really enjoyed this book because they were all stories that took place in Japan and were about the Japanese culture.
I lived in Japan during the summer of 2014, so I was nice to go back by reading this book :)
آقا یه چیز بگم بخندین بم. من قبلاً پسلرزه رو صوتی شنیده بودم، و نمدونستم بعدِ زلزله همون پسلرزهایه که با یه ترجمه و از یه نشر دیگه و صوتی نشیدمش :))))دفعه پیش از داستان ابرقورباغه خوشم نیومد. اما الان پایانش خیلی برام شاهکار بود. فکر کنم پسلرزه سانسور هم داشت و یکی از داستانهاش حذف شده بود. داستان شیرینی عسلی رو برا بار سوم خوندم و لذت بردم و بهنظرم بهترین داستان این مجموعه اومد. همین دیگه.
آقا یه چیز بگم بخندین بم. من قبلاً پس‌لرزه رو صوتی شنیده بودم، و نمدونستم بعدِ زلزله همون پس‌لرزه‌ایه که با یه ترجمه و از یه نشر دیگه و صوتی نشیدمش :))))دفعه پیش از داستان ابرقورباغه خوشم نیومد. اما الان پایانش خیلی برام شاهکار بود. فکر کنم پس‌لرزه سانسور هم داشت و یکی از داستان‌هاش حذف شده بود. داستان شیرینی عسلی رو برا بار سوم خوندم و لذت بردم و به‌نظرم بهترین داستان این مجموعه اومد. همین دیگه.
Each story dips into the troubled waters and emerges with a sense of being wrapped up in not so neat a bow, much is heartfelt much the same.What appeals most to me about ATQ, is the smoke and mirrors subjects and fascinating characters like a giant frog plotting to get rid of an evil underground giant worm or a bitter divorced lady landing up in an unknown lady’s home who tells her that she has a stone inside her.
4 αστεράκια της κλίμακας ρίχτερ.Ίσως από τα λιγότερο σύνθετα βιβλία του Χαρούκι Μουρακάμι που έχω διαβάσει αλλά εξίσου ποιοτικό και όπως ο σεισμός που αποτελεί και το κεντρικό θέμα στο οποίο στηρίζει τις ιστορίες του έτσι και εκείνος έρχεται να «κουνήσει» τον αναγνώστη με μια σειρά ιστοριών γεμάτες από εσωτερικές αναζητήσεις και με κέντρο τους τον άνθρωπο και τον διαφορετικό ψυχισμό αυτών.
6 διαφορετικές ιστορίες ανθρώπων ο καθενας με τα δικά του θέματα μάχονται για να αλλάξουν κάτι στις ζωές τους και με ένα τρόπο που μόνο ο Χαρούκι Μουρακάμι ξέρει βρίσκουν το φως.Αγαπημένη μου ιστορία του κυρίου βάτραχου  «όλη η φοβερή μάχη έγινε στο χώρο της φαντασίας».
اول می خواستم به کتاب سه امتیاز بدم اما داستان "شیرینی عسلی" به قدری شیرین و جذاب بود که تصمیم گرفتم چهار امتیاز بدم

Over and over again he uses the same tired old technique: open the story with a scene set in the present and then go back and give a brief description of the characters' life stories, what brought them here, and so on before returning to the present and continuing the story.
In each story, the earthquake is a peripheral event (this gives a clue to Murakami's skill: he's too subtle to just talk about it face on) in the lives of the characters.
If it wasn't for the bushfires I don't think I would have liked this book at all.
Κλασσικά αγαπημένος Murakami!
" مهم نيست سفرِ آدم چه قدر طولانى باشه، آدم هيچوقت نمى تونه از دستِ خودش فرار كنه. عين سايه ى آدمه. همه جا تعقيبت مى كنه."
تا الان كه اين ريويو را مي نويسم تنها فرصت خواندن چند داستان كوتاه از موراكامي نصيبم شده و بايد بگم همگي بدون استثنا حس مشتركي رو در من ايجاد كردند.
تنهايي بشريقهرمان داستان هاي موراكامي هميشه تنها هستند حتي اگر با كلي آدم، دوست، رفيق و همكار احاطه شده باشند هميشه جايي در درونشون هست كه تنهايي رو فرياد ميزنهتفاوت اين مجموعه داستان كوتاه با بقيه مجموعه هاي داستاني موراكامي در بررسي اثر اتفاقي واحد (زلزله ي بزرگ شهر كوبه ) روي زندگي چند نفر در چند داستان جداگانه است.
براي من كه با داستان كوتاه ازتباط زيادي پیدا نمي كنم، اين مجموعه هم شاهكار و به ياد ماندني نبود اما خوندنش خالي از لطف نيست
آتش میتونه هر شکلی که میخواد به خودش بگیره. آزاده. بنابراین بسته به درون آدمی که نگاهش میکنه، میتونه به هر شکلی در بیاد. حالا اگه تو این حس عمیق و آروم رو با دیدن آتش پیدا میکنی به این دلیله که اون داره همون حس عمیق و آرومی که درون خودته بهت نشون میده. منظورم رو میفهمی؟از متن کتاب
آتش می‌تونه هر شکلی که می‌خواد به خودش بگیره. آزاده. بنابراین بسته به درون آدمی که نگاهش می‌کنه، می‌تونه به هر شکلی در بیاد. حالا اگه تو این حس عمیق و آروم رو با دیدن آتش پیدا می‌کنی به این دلیله که اون داره همون حس عمیق و آرومی که درون خودته بهت نشون می‌ده. منظورم رو می‌فهمی؟از متن کتاب
I am not sure why but this collection of six short stories that happened after the Kobe earthquake just did not impress me as much as his Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman did last month.
In fact, references to the Kobe earthquake were just made in passing and could have been removed without any effect on the stories.The stories are so different from what I read and liked in Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman.
Okay, I am still a Murakami fan but this book does not have what I used to love about his writing.One promising story is the fifth one, though.
Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman (5 stars).
In this collection of six short stories the relationship of the narrative to the earthquake itself is sometimes clear but at other time obscure.
A link they do all share is that the events in each story take place one month after the earthquake.
The stories often have no ending, they simply reflect the thoughts and actions of various people in a narrow span of time.
In typical Murakami style some stories include the surreal whilst others focus on people whose lives somehow feel empty, at least at that moment; some are outsiders and some seem a little lost.
خب، بد نبود، ولی نه ترجمه شاهکار بود و نه قلم خارقالعاده. یه حسی بهم میگه موراکامی هم مثل سامرست موام، مثل ماکسیم گورکی یا برنارد شاو، تا حد بسیار زیادی فراموش میشه. تبزدگی بیشتر از تاثیرپذیری در ارتباط مخاطب با آثار این افراد نقش داره. تب که فروکش کنه، تفاوت شولوخوف، وولف و کوبو آبه با موراکامیها پیدا میشه.
خب، بد نبود، ولی نه ترجمه شاهکار بود و نه قلم خارق‌العاده. یه حسی بهم می‌گه موراکامی هم مثل سامرست موام، مثل ماکسیم گورکی یا برنارد شاو، تا حد بسیار زیادی فراموش می‌شه. تب‌زدگی بیشتر از تاثیرپذیری در ارتباط مخاطب با آثار این افراد نقش داره. تب که فروکش کنه، تفاوت شولوخوف، وولف و کوبو آبه با موراکامی‌ها پیدا می‌شه.
همه چیز به کنار، اون قورباغه هم به کنار :)
موراکامی راحت و آسون نفوذ میکنه به درون قلب آدم و قصشو تعریف میکنه، یه جوری می برتت به عمق شخصیتاش که میتونی لحظه های زندگیشونو با پوست و گوشت و استخون لمس کنی. داستان های اتویی در چشم انداز، شیرینی عسلی و تایلند رو خیلی دوست داشتم.
موراکامی راحت و آسون نفوذ میکنه به درون قلب آدم و‌ قصشو‌ تعریف‌ میکنه، یه جوری می برتت به عمق شخصیتاش که میتونی لحظه های زندگیشونو با پوست و گوشت و استخون لمس کنی. داستان های اتویی در چشم انداز، شیرینی عسلی و تایلند رو خیلی دوست داشتم.

به عنوان اولین اثری که از یه نویسنده محبوبِ تقریبا همه اقشار کتابخون خوندم،چندان برام جذاب نبود.
Wonderful collection. Review to follow.
یه مجموعه داستان جالب از هاروکی موراکامیکتاب در حقیقیت دارای شش داستانه که زلزله سال 1995 کوبه زندگی
Murukami’s stories are ripe for pastiche and parody; ridden with tropes and characters which exist solely in Murukami’s stories, but which constantly pop-up; lackadaisical loners, tortured artists, the disaffected and the deranged, talking animals, convoluted plots; they can, if read concurrently, grate on the reader, but, taken in small doses, they emphasise the magic of Murukami’s imagination, resplendent with the weird and wonderful workings of his mind, a testament to his unrivalled storytelling abilities.My favourite story in this collection is ‘Super Frog Saves Tokyo’, in which an erudite giant frog who, when not quoting Dostoevskii and Nietschze is planning to fight a giant worm who is threatening to destroy Tokyo in the manner that Anna Karenina fought a train.
All of this is told via the eyes of a rather diffident debt collector who may, or may not, have imagined the whole thing.
شش داستان اُتویی در چشم انداز-تایلند-اَبَرقورباغه توکیو را نجات می دهد-شیرینی عسلی -بشقاب پرنده در کوشیرو-همه ی بچه های خدا حق دارند برقصند در این مجموعه قرار دارد.
اما همه داستانهای این مجموعه یک طرف، داستان اَبَر قورباغه توکیو را نجات می دهد هم طرف دیگر.این داستان زییای قورباغه ای است که از نیچه نقل قول می کند و عاشق رمان آناکارنینا است داستن قورباغه ای که می خواهد جلوی زلزله مهیب توکیو را بگیرد و سرانجام موفق می شود اما چطور و چگونه .آن را دیگر شما باید بخوانیداز مقدمه مترجم: موراکامی در داستان هایش وهم و واقعیت را به هم می آمیزد و شخصیت هایش را در دامِ دنیاهایی می اندازد که مناسباتش را نمی فهمند.
Ο σουρεαλισμός στην καλύτερή του έκφανση. Μια συλλογή διηγημάτων, με κοινό άξονα την καταστροφή μετά τον σεισμό του 1995, με μοτίβα που επανέρχονται και διατρέχουν όλα τα έργα του, ως προς τους χαρακτήρες και ως προς την ίδια την πλοκή.Γλαφυρή γλώσσα, ως συνήθως, πρωτότυπες, γεμάτες ζωντάνια, ιστορίες, που ισορροπούν ανάμεσα στον ρεαλισμό και το φανταστικό - ο Murakami κρατά αμείωτο το ενδιαφέρον για άλλη μια φορά και αποδεικνύεται αριστοτέχνης της μικρής φόρμας.
Even characters distant from its epicenter felt traumatized and their lives psychologically disoriented by its televised images and by its reminder of relations and friends at the site.
'UFO in Kushiro' connects a recently divorced man (because of the televised impact) and a single woman in Hokkaido.
After much trial and error in 'Honey Pie', friendships get reestablished--enterprising bears who find a way for equal give and take that starts a new business enterprise; and male/female friends of many years whose true feelings for each other went unexpressed until a child relates the message of The Earthquake Man. Read as an introduction to Murakami before reading 1Q84.
Each story is written in the third person (an uncommon POV for Murakami) and deals with the lives and souls of characters in the days and months succeeding the destruction of the city.The book's opener "UFO in Kushiro" offers up a vignette that belongs thematically right next to works like Wind-Up Bird and 
this tale was.When all is done, said, and forgotten, Murakami's book will still be about men and women in this cold world who are shaken from their stupor and confronted with the opportunity to fill their hollowed-out lives with that undetected mass that had been missing from them the entire time.
“Super-Frog Saves Tokyo” is the highlight of the collection ~ a nightmarish work of magical realism that is at turns humorous, grave, and gross.
It was only after reading “Super-Frog Saves Tokyo” that I could appreciate them in context.
None of them are likeable people, with the possible exception of Miyake from “Landscape With Flatiron.” But he’s not really likeable either.
And Frog replies: “Tokyo can only be saved by a person like you.
And it’s for people like you that I am trying to save Tokyo” (104).
We were damaged people.
Perhaps that’s why I feel sympathy for the fragile Miyake with his phobia of refrigerators.
Piano lessons were waiting.
There was a piece of driftwood propped up against a piece of wave smoothed sandstone, and I was suddenly in the dark standing on the beach burning driftwood after an earthquake, watching the mutli-colours dance their midnight dance.
I've not read this book in ages, but a piece of driftwood, of sunbleached, salt-soaked wood brought me back to the pages with ink on them that captured me a decade ago.I made it back in time for my lesson, but I missed spending time with my love.
I am sad about that, but the driftwood was needed, so it's okay because next time we're together it will be richer for my detour.
Una raccolta di racconti malinconica e soffice con uno sfondo sfocato ma pregnante: il terremoto a Kobe del 1995.Murakami è maestro della creazione di mondi ovattati e insonorizzati, in cui tuttavia il dolore riesce a tagliare come un coltello questa bolla di delicatezza creatasi tra lettore e personaggi. Splendido l'ultimo racconto, Torte al miele. Splendido con questa leggerezza tutta Murakamiana che ti rimane dentro per ore intere.
Katagiri agrees in spite of hesitation and the battle between the two creatures was definitely something worth reading that I won't spoil here in the review.he other three stories of the collection were just as unique and contemplative and I think out of those least three favorites, I can recommend All of God's Children Can Dance most of all.
I don't consider it as one of Murakami-sensei's strongest works, but the three stories that became my favorites are at least worth checking out for yourself.RECOMMENDED: 7/10DO READ MY REVIEWS AT
Murakami presents another weird and wonderful view into his world but this time focusing on the the way that a group of fictional characters were affected by the Kobe earthquake.
I love Murakami although I have to say that this was not my favourite book by him as these stories don't really give him much of a chance to stretch his literary legs!
My favourite book thus far is Kafka on the Shore which features the creepiest character in fiction - Johnny Walker.
On a weirder personal note, I received this book on the day of the earthquake in Japan (11.03.2011) as a birthday gift.
This is worth getting your grubby hands on just for the amazing short story "landscape with flatiron".
For fuck's sake this guy can write.
I'm also finding myself more drawn to shorter stories lately, having less patience for the modern grand master narrative of the epic novel, preferring instead the more fragmented, shorter, leaner & meaner postmodern narrative in the form of the short story.
Again, "landscape with flatiron", the second short story in this collection, is an instant classic, one of the best short stories I done ever read.
Su narrativa es muy ligera y me gusta, pero en ocasiones (y hasta ahora me ha pasado con sus dos libros, no sé sobre los que vaya a leer después) me inquietan algunas escenas que parecen dispuestas ahí porque sí.
O sea, como que sus libros siempre tienen que tener esas escenas extrañas y casi absurdas de sexo que no me llegan a cuadrar muy bien y sobre otros temas que...
Quedémonos con que pese a que la literatura asiática no es lo mío, Murakami se las trae.Ahora, sus personajes, aunque bastante excéntricos en su mayoría, suelen ser bastante profundos, y esas reflexiones existenciales de vez en cuando me llegan, otras simplemente me gustan.
Knyga - labai labai lengva, gerąja to žodžio prasme. Nors tuo pačiu ir depresyvoka. Taigi, sumoj turime lengvą depresiją. Kažko panašaus ir tikėjausi. Bet patiko.
Murakami never fails me .. i just loved this short story collection a lot!
With an economy of words that's almost reminiscent of Hemingway, Haruki Murakami weaves together a delicious collection of 6 tales.
And the events that the earthquake sets in motion, have slow but sure effects on the characters' lives.I think my favourite story in the collection is 'Honey Pie'.
The earthquake signifies a need to shake up the past and move off from all that's destroyed.
It indicates a need to rebuild the main character Junpei's life.
The Earthquake Man signifies an evil creature who would want to do precisely the opposite.'Superfrog saves Tokyo' - the penultimate story, didn't affect me as much initially.
I definitely need to read more of Mr. Murakami.
bila kemaren ulil mendapat kiriman bom yang dibungkus sebagai kiriman buku, maka kemaren pula saya memulai baca buku murakami haruki tentang bungkusan yang gak jelas apa isinya.judul cerpen pertama dalam buku ini adalah UFO DI KUSHINO.wong mau menulis kisah tentang jepang pasca gempa kobe 1995 kok malah bicara tentang UFO?ini kisah seorang lelaki yang ditinggal pergi istrinya seusai gempa di kobe.si istri setelah kejadian gempa seperti kehilangan dirinya, kerjaannya tiap hari hanyalah menonton tivi dengan mengganti-ganti channel dengan tatapan mata kosong.
The beautiful cover drew me in and Murakami's writing kept me reading through his fantastical stories.
I was a little hesitant at first to try Murakami's short stories.
I needn't have worried because his short fiction is just as good as his full length novels.
The only negativething I can say about this collection is that I could have kept reading any of the stories.
I end up wishing that the stories were novels.
As this collection is so short it's a great gateway into Murakami's work if you are unsure of starting with a novel and want to test the waters first.
