https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86424.Lifeguard
Decent book. Quick little summer read but honestly I didn’t enjoy it as much as I hoped I would. Not as intriguing or attention grabbing as some of the other Patterson books but it was an okay book. Quick read though so not a waste of reading time at all. My quick and simple overall: would have like more intrigue in the plot. Decent, quick read though.
Oh my goodness, but this was bad!
I love James Patterson, but I won't be looking for a book co-authored by Andrew Gross any time soon.
And, guys?
We are smart.
Smart enough NOT to need you to repeat people's names in every line of dialog ad nauseum.
It is one of my pet peeves.
Like, "Ellie, did you know I was coming?
Did you know I'd wait for you, Ellie?
Will you wait for me...
Ellie?"Bleh.Plus the plot made no sense.
The characters were indistinguishable and hard to follow.
And the whole jump-in-bed-with-one-woman-who-is-tragically-murdered-but-then-fall-in-love-with-the-FBI-agent-on-the-case thing is a little, um, trite?Bleh.
I loved this book! Of course I read it on a vacation where all I had to do all day was sit by the pool and read! Seriously exhilarating read, the moment you start till the moment you finish! It would make a great movie. Murder, betrayal, manhunt and love story all rolled into one exciting book. It reads quickly, the characters are believable and the story is fun with a diabolical twist at the end!
At the opening of the book Ned has fallen in love with an out-of-his-league beautiful rich woman named Tess McAuliffe.
Ned gets roped into participating in a $60 million art heist by his seedy South Boston childhood friends.
Now being accused of murder and a huge art theft, Ned runs back to Boston and gets tangled up with a perky FBI agent Ellie Shurtleff.Lifeguard is missing some of the suspense and witty police work that we’ve become used to in Patterson’s books.
I’m finding that some of Patterson’s co-authored books are less than good — as if Patterson is just allowing his name to be used on the covers.
Yeah I know people talk to cops without their lawyer all the time, those are the people in jail because they thought they were smarter than the police and could talk their way out of things.Taking your plates off the car and leaving it - what does that get you?
Police are gonna look at a car without plates even faster.
It makes no sense because he was smart enough to swap plates once but not that time.We are going to steal millions of dollars worth of paintings but not have a gun anywhere.
it had all the ingredient to my liking , art theft , beach town , mystery ..only if it would have been written in a better way , felt like reading a movie script.
Things go south of hell when Ned arrives back at the meet-up point, only to learn his three friend have been killed gangland-style, as well as the woman he'd had a quickie with that afternoon.
He goes on the run from the cops, as well as FBI agent Ellie, who works for the art-theft division.The only thing that kept me from giving this great story all 5-stars were a couple plot points that didn't quite jive if one thinks about them realistically for a moment.
I enjoyed it enough to finish it, but there were plenty of times when I was bored enough to put it down.Lifeguard is a crime drama starring a lifeguard on the run.
When an art heist goes wrong and all his friends turn up dead, he is fugitive #1 and manages to dig himself deeper and deeper in trouble, all the while trying to dig himself out.The mystery aspect of the story was easy to figure out from the beginning, and the love interests were cliche and uninteresting.
Not once, but twice does this lifeguard fall in love with a woman after only one meeting, he sure moves quickly!The dialogue at times was atrocious, leading me to excessive eye rolling throughout the novel.
Ned Kelly was looking for the perfect score.
At the time he finally felt like his life was turning around, he made a huge mistake.
He thought he had just met the woman of his dreams, but he needed the million dollars promised in this act.
The only thing Ned had to do was make distractions, but these distractions came back to haunt him.
Thankfully, Ned had a big supporter, who eventually turned into a lover, Ellie Shurtleff, an FBI agent.
Great book!
It keeps you reading to see what happens next, it’s fast-paced, and the ending is a lot different then you would imagine.
I don't understand how this guy is so popular!After giving up on this tedious novel, I tried to skip to the end and see who the bad guy was.
(I assure you this was only in case the person who'd recommended the book to me and whom I'd told I had read it, asked me questions.) It was horrible!
I had to scan through nearly the whole second half of the book trying to find a bit of information I couldn't care less about.
All in all I felt like Mr. Patterson owed me a couple hours of my life back.
A great read, loved the fact that I didn't predict the ending!
Pretty lame and predictable. Very easy read. The situations were not beleivable and the characters were uninteresting. I question if Patterson wrote much of it.
Blink another time and now it’s one more person you know now dead.
All of this happens just because of a deal gone wrong.
When something goes wrongs and the paintings aren’t there the team gets set up and killed all except Ned. The FBI is pointing all their fingers at Ned and the only thing he can think to do is run away for his life in south Florida.
With the help of each other and a few other trusted friends, Ned and Ellie uncover the truth about the paintings and who was doing all the killings.
I finally got around to reading a James Patterson book.
The book was given to me by a friend.
(Seriously the book was like 118 chapters.
I kind of liked that though).
His lifelong friends ask him to help with a huge art heist for a $5 million payout.
The heist goes very wrong, with all his friends ending up dead.
Some of the book was a stretch.
I also like that the setting was in Florida.
Not sure I will go out and search for another Patterson book, but if I happened to come across one I would give it another try.
Not the best James Patterson bookThis book started off strong and I really wanted to love it.
I ended up merely liking it and shrugging when I got to the big reveal.
What I liked was the setting of the book: a rich beach town, where the main character, Ned, finds himself working (and liking) the menial jobs of a common man's life.
I also liked the art heist storyline, introducing FBI-agent-slash-art-expert, Ellie.
Could Ned possibly fall in love more?
And the ultimate storyline reveal?
I barely understood what had happened.I love James Patterson books.
Thriller lleno de tópicos, bastante ágil y que parece escrito para su adaptación cinematográfica. Es entretenido, pero sin mayor trascendencia (ni pretensiones). Y no se puede añadir mucho más. El típico libro piscinero para no pensar demasiado, que entretiene porque es ágil, y que no te exige tener muchas neuronas activadas... De hecho, si las tienes, empiezas a verle todos los fallos y se acabó la diversión...
3-1/2 stars. Another book on tape on our roundtrip driving to Dallas. It kept our attention!
I loved this book!! Great story!! love this author's books!!
1 stars.Going through this book was like reading a low budget action movie. It was dumb and predictable, but not bad enough to get me bored or make me want to throw it from the window.Don't get me wrong, I did not like it. At all. But it still managed to get me interested enough to finish it.Let's start from the beginning: our protagonist and everything-turns-out-good-for-him character, Ned Kelly. He is the typical handsome and street smart guy with a tragic family backstory, he's sweet and char
1½ stars.Going through this book was like reading a low budget action movie.
But it still managed to get me interested enough to finish it.Let's start from the beginning: our protagonist and everything-turns-out-good-for-him character, Ned Kelly.
Sad that the first book I read from James Patterson was disappointing.

I knew it was bound to happen eventually...I found a Patterson novel with a bit of depth to it!
I read Patterson because his writing is light, quick, and forgettable, and sometimes it's precisely what I'm in the mood for.
This novel, however, actually has a bit more going on under the surface.
What I like the most is the hopefulness of this novel.
Things go sour quickly, but the glimmer of hope never fades.
The ending is much better than any of the other novels I've read of his as well.
This story had an interesting and exciting storyline.
The characters were interesting (I loved Champ and would gladly read more about him) and I constantly wanted to read more.
Until the ending.
The authors should have ended the book a few chapters earlier than they did.
By trying to wrap the story up with a pretty bow, I lost interest and stopped caring.
If they had ended with the meeting between Ned and Sollie to wrap up the lose ends, this would have easily been a 4 or even a 5 star book for me.
No soy asidua a las novelas de misterio, y Perseguidos no estaría en mis manos de no ser por un club de lectura. Muy entretenida y se lee rápido, me gustó el plot twist al final con todo el tema del Dr. Gachet. Creo que habría disfrutado más de la historia si hubiese sido una película, para ser francos.
My first read / listen of a James Patterson novel was a pleasant surprise!! Great story line with the mystery ending in a totally unexpected way. The extended epilogue provided a wonderfully warm ending despite the needless brutality that happened during the course of the story. Because of the awesome ending, 9 out of 10 for me!
Another usual Patterson (or is it Gross???) book, full of suspense, twists and action. There were some bits though I felt it weren't really explained, and I felt lost in a couple of situations, but nevertheless an enjoyable and quick read.
Four stars.. quick read.. not one of Patterson's best. But, if you haven't read it check it out. Definitely good for a book you can knock out in a day.
Great story with twists you won't see coming!
Not good at all. Extra bonus though, the book was in large print and I didn't have to wear my glasses.
I didn't feel like this was 100% Patterson's usual style but still a very good easy read
My father bought this book at a flea market. I enjoyed reading it. It is an older James Patterson book. I like the variety of characters in it. It is a well written book.
