https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1099301.The_Name_of_This_Book_Is_Secret
"Xxxxxxxx xx xxxxx xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxx xxx xxxxxxxx xxxxx xx.Xxxx x xxxxx xxxx xxx xxxx xxxx xxx x xxxxx xxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxx xx!"(Sorry! It's a secret! You'll just have to read the book!)
The story starts off in a promising way, but I wish I had heeded the author's advice and stopped reading.
This plot device isn't as clever as the author thinks it is; it's jarring and takes you out of the story, interrupting the natural flow of things.
This might be a way for him to get kids to imagine themselves in the story, but I found that it made the characters very flat.
I wish the author had spent more time on descriptions and developing the plot than telling me he wasn't going to tell me something.
Why bother with illustrations if they aren't going to match the story?
At times it is annoying how blatant the Snicket influences are (definitions of words are hinted at, and readers are sent to the dictionary to look up difficult words), but basically this book is just BETTER than any book in A Series of Unfortunate Events.
I felt like a great deal in those books was filler, and this book manages to be clever while still being funny and better written.
The author is not as great at tying up loose ends, admittedly, which Lemony Snicket is a master at, but I think it's worth it.
Sometimes, as a grown up, you feel the need to read great-big ponderous books, generally referred to as "epics." Maybe you read them to prove a point, that you can.
Maybe you read them thinking there's some great answer in the book, a way of coping with the fact that sometimes life sucks and there isn't anything you can do about it.
Whatever the reason, those great big epics, whether they're good or bad, reveal to you all the ways that your own writing isn't really all that good.
I'm sorry, I'm not allowed to speak of it!!! But one thing for sure: LOVED IT!! =)
کتاب بسیار عالی ای بود , تا حدی که نگرانم بعدش چی بخونم و البته فکر میکنم کتاب باغبان شب که انتخابش کردم به همون اندازه خوب باشه.
اول اینکه نویسنده به شدت جذاب داستان رو نریت میکرد و خیلی سخت بود که زمین بذارمش و به کارهای دیگه ام برسم.
اگر کسی از نریشن های ماجراهای بچه های بدشانس خوشش میاد حتما بخونه چون من برای خودم با همون لحن و صدا تصورش میکردم وخیلی قوی بود.داستان راجع به یه دختر به نام کساندرا و یه پسر به نام مکس ارنست هست که رازی رو کشف میکنن و باید با هم از اینکه آدم بدهای ماجرا (که البته به جذابیت کنت اولاف نیستن) دستشون بهش برسه جلوگیری کنن و در این ماجرا به بقیه هم کمک کنن.
Well the tone of the story is somewhat similar to SOUE that is why I was really determined to read this book.
Throughout the book he uses as "fun tone" and always leaves some side comments here and there about the main characters.
The author really did create soem quirky world within this story.Unlike the dark tone the Lemony Snicket used in SOUE, surely this book is fun to read.The build up done from start up to the climax to the resolution of Book 1 is done beautifully.
It presented the overall concept of the story while leaving you with some thing to wander.
This book was so good!My inner child loves it :)Two adventurers and the magician are investigating a lot of things but what makes this worth the read is the spectacular writing style! Highly recommended.
this was the kind of book that whispered to you read me read me and when you did you loves it
It's My thoughts (Note: This review is for the whole series):I LOVE THE SECRET SERIES!!!
The plot for each book is interesting and each one is different.
The Appendices at the end of each book were cool too, as they usually contained activities, games, and some information.
So I loved this series, and you should give it a try.
It's not completely related to the Secret Series (there are, however, some references to it in Write This Book), but I still recommend reading the Secret Series first.
Happy reading!
3.5 StarsWhat an interesting little book. It took me about 100 pages in to find any real enjoyment in this book, but at that point it became quite cute. This text offers readers something different than the typical engagement with a straight-forward narrative. There are codes, mysteries, interactions with the narrator, and secrets.I am quite glad that I received this book from a student and found the time to read it myself. It will become one of my top recommendations for my reluctant readers.
Granted, apparently Mr. Bosch was able to keep his pseudonym secret for three years before he was discovered (and how he must have howled and eaten several pounds of dark chocolate when he was discovered), but still, I just don't like knowing.
The riddles were very good, the kind of thing I bet a kid would have fun working out before they read on to reveal the answers, and the appendix is full of random, interesting information.If you don't like quirky books, you'll hate this one.
While it may get to be too much in future books, I think old Pseudonymous handled it very well.
Empecé este libro pensado que sería muy infantil, pero nada más lejos de la realidad, me he visto sumergida en una historia de misterio e intriga muy bien llevada. Esta escrito de forma muy original y directa hacía el lector, algo que ha hecho que fuera más especial. Un libro muy recomendado si quieres despejarte de lecturas muy densas y pesadas, pero con una buena historia.
My Review of this book is Secret *Winks*
This book reminds me of A Series of Unfortunate Events maybe because of the writing. I liked it, actually. It's like having a friend tell you a story, or rather, a secret. The Name of this Book is Secret  is about a girl named Cassandra who goes on a dangerous adventure with a boy named Max-Earnest (why he's called such has a funny background lol) because of what they call the secret. This book starts off filling you with curiosity due to the narrator holding back a lot of details, but that curi
This book starts off filling you with curiosity due to the narrator holding back a lot of details, but that curiosity eventually wears off because as the story goes on, the things that happen next become quite predictable.
What I liked about this book are the funny parts; there are a lot of them here and most of the hilarious scenes involve adults.
It is a good book but I think I would've liked this more if I read this when I was ten.
To be fair, it's a book written for children so maybe if you're an adult who read this and didn't enjoy it that much, that doesn't make the book bad.
Great !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!on for ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!11!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!111!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1111!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1
E' un libro per ragazzi, ma non completamente; insomma, sicuramente se l'avessi letto a 11/12 anni avrebbe avuto quel pizzico di fascino e mistero in più che la mia veneranda età di 23 anni (sigh) non mi ha permesso di apprezzare e cogliere..
Leggete la sua biografia :D) parla direttamente con noi lettori mentre ci racconta la storia, ci avvisa dei pericoli che sta correndo nel raccontarci la storia e di quelli ancora più grandi che correremo noi lettori una volta saputa la verità.Sì, perché il libro parla di un segreto..
“WARNING:DO NOT READ BEYOND THIS PAGE!” Great start to a book, isn't it?
Unfortunately, Pseudonymous Bosch is not exactly the second coming of Lemony Snicket, great name aside.
The premise of the book means that the author has purposely left out establishing characteristics of virtually every character, including the main ones.
But it just leads to little other than their worse characteristics getting page time, and makes it very hard to like them.
The text describes a real estate sign with an arrow pointing towards the house for sale.
Emily - 4 stars Joanne - 4 stars Kathryn - 2.7 stars Lauren - 4 stars Priya - 4 stars Average: 3.7 stars Emily- This book was quirky and intriguing.
I did enjoy Cass' trail mix though.Lauren- This book was weird, but somehow quite enjoyable.
Priya- I would trade all my smoochies for this book.The name of this review is SECRET.Our club had mixed feelings about this book.
As a matter of fact, we made Cass' Super Chip Trail Mix. Like the book, it was odd at first but it grew on you.
10/10 would recommend.Are we official Skelton Sisters yet?Smoochies,LITerature Book Club
This book is great! Good for minds wanting to sort out even the toughest mysteries!"The Name of This Book is Secret" is mysterious and definitely written from a different point of view. I have never read such a mind-bottling book and that is a good thing in this case. I am also dying to read the sequel "If Your Reading This it's Too Late". I recommend this book to pretty much anyone who enjoys mysteries and has a good sense of humor.But I warn you it has an open ending so it seems a little confusing, but its good!
Me ha gustado muchisimo, el final me ha sacado una buena sonrisa de la cara.
It is a beast book with all the details.
The whole premise of the story if that there is a big secret that the author does not even want to tell the readers about but can’t resist.
And through many adventures Cass and Max Ernest end up at a cult like spa that’s sole purpose is preserving the key to immortality they discovered.
Although this book had more mystery elements the villains work toward immortality gives it a fantasy angle.
The author goes to great length to explain why he (or she) can not give the true names of characters, and I just wanted to get to the story.
I really enjoyed reading this book by someone with the best pen name ever.
I realize that all books have some kind of social commentary, but sometimes, because it's subtle and intentional and aimed at children, it feels more pernicious.
How should I feel about openly gay characters in a children's novel?
I know that reading a book is about being exposed to new ideas and having one's ideas challenged.
For me, it was really such a small small part of what is otherwise a very light book that I was able to really enjoy reading it anyway.
I loved this book so much! I had to reread it to start the second book, but I still felt all of the emotions as I did in the first time I read it. I can't wait to start the second book right now.
Questo libro come l'ho visto ho deciso di leggerlo, principalmente per il titolo strambo! È un libro per bambini però molto carino e divertente. A chi non si fa problemi a leggere libri leggeri (per bambini appunto) lo consiglio, vi farà sorridere e anche ridere proprio! :)
When I’m not wandering the aisles of a bookstore, filling my arms with more than I can carry, or sitting on the couch in my pajamas surfing library e-book catalogs in search of the next fabulous read, I find book suggestions through the recommendations of fellow bookworms.
She and Max-Ernest (who never goes by a shorter version of that moniker) discover that the Symphony of Smells is a cry for help from a missing magician, and in their quest to rescue him, they end up at a secretive spa where the search for immortality takes precedence over manicures and massages.
Pseudonymous Bosch certainly knows how to keep readers glued to a book... or.. to the series. Written in a style that mekes it more like listening to a story than reading one, the author doesn't give a single chance to the readers to get bored. Moreover, the ending will leave one with no choice but to read the next book. LOVED IT.Anyone who doesn't mind reading children's books once in a while, DO READ IT.. and those who do mind.. well.. I pity you guys...you have no idea what you are going to miss..
I just found these:http://midnight-sun-sensorium-and-spa...http://www.gloriafortuneproperty.net/...
Çocukluk aşkım diyeceğim bu kitaba
