https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2050.Farewell_My_Lovely
However, like Spade, he’s also smart (much more than he usually lets on) and has a knack for clear thinking and being able to read people.
It makes you look thoughtful when you’re not thinking.”      “It was a nice walk if you liked grunting.” “She gave me a smile I could feel in my hip pocket.” “I like smooth shiny girl, hardboiled and loaded with sin.” “A Harvard boy.
Yes, 5.0 stars and a definite must read for fans of noir, mysteries or just superb prose.HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!
In a routine, cheap case , (when he can collect his fee) of trying to find a runaway, Greek husband, Marlowe, on Central Avenue in Los Angeles, 1940, gazes at the titanic, and dangerous Moose Malloy, on an incessant mission, this former jailbird, is six and a half feet tall, 260 lbs., dwarfs the amazed , private eye, the recent, unwisely released bank robber, is looking for his lost love , the mysterious, cute, redhead, Velma, enters the shady establishment, the Florian , nearby, he worked in, eight long years ago, then a nightclub, now a gambling den, ( not legal, but in this city, no questions are asked) soon a man goes flying out the door landing in the gutter, the dumb Moose, returns, grabs Philip like he's a paper doll, and takes him upstairs, his shoes hardly touch the steps, after a brief argument, the bouncer, bounces very high, Mr.Malloy opens the door, ( he wants information, now) not realizing, things have changed, to an office, in the back, does not get any...a homicide occurs, the unstoppable force has been let loose .

"She's a nice girl. Not my type.""You don't like them nice?" He had another cigarette going. The smoke was being fanned away from his face by his hand."I like smooth shiny girls, hardboiled and loaded with sin."Hey, copper, it's how I talk, see? MahhhhhhThis was exactly what the doctor ordered after a blitz of wonderful yet terribly earnest books, one after the other. This classic noir was everything I needed. A handsome private dick (ahem), a heist of some rare jade jewels, mysterious beauties, lots of alcohol, clever wisecracks, and great writing.
Philip Marlowe is looking for a woman's missing husband when he encounters Moose Malloy, a brute fresh out of prison, looking for his lost love Velma.
Once Marlowe got warmed up and I forgave it for not being The Big Sleep, I was completely absorbed by the writing.
Chandler's poetic prose only got better in the gap between the Big Sleep and this book.
Marlowe took so many blows to the head in this one that I had sympathy pains while reading it.While I wouldn't say it's as good as The Big Sleep, Farewell, My Lovely is a classic and not to be missed by noir fans.
Excerpts from a dinner honoring the 2016 winner of the Otis Chandler Award for Literary Criticism  Audience Question: You’re known for your essay on the Kantian aesthetic of disinterested judgment as seen in the works of James Joyce, William Gaddis, and Dan Brown. Are there other authors or titles that come to mind, perhaps even more focused on the primacy of style?Steve: Well, let’s see… Maybe the first book I read where a certain shadowy deportment really popped as a pure statement of style w
Audience Question: I may be taking you further afield, but is this visual, visceral style brought on by Chandler one that necessarily de-emphasizes plot?Steve: I don’t think so.
Steve: Admittedly, HumpBac, as I like to call them (retrofitting a nickname) were iconic, but…Another audience member: Those couple combo names have kind of run their course, don’t you think?
With extra hot sauce.Susan: So what were you dreaming?Steve: Ha, I think I was getting some kind of award and spouting complete nonsense, like in one of my Goodreads reviews where I have nothing to say but say it anyway.
It's a classic of crime fiction; it was first published in 1940, and it's been reviewed thousands of times, mostly by people far more competent than I.Suffice it to say that this is the second full-length novel featuring Los Angeles detective Philip Marlowe, following The Big Sleep, which had been published in 1939.
Scores of writers have followed in his footsteps, but very few have succeeded as well as Chandler did.As the book opens, Marlowe is searching for a missing husband when he encounters a mountain of a man named Moose Malloy who is staring up at a bar above the barber shop where Marlowe had hoped to find the aforementioned missing husband.
I put them on and went out of the room.”So I always find myself making allowances for Marlowe’s bad habits and personal failings.Marlowe is working a boring job trying to find a missing husband when he has the bad luck to come across Moose Malloy.
As a witness, Marlowe tells the cops what he saw and is coerced into trying to find Velma by a lazy detective.
However, a real paying job as a bodyguard for a guy delivering a ransom for the return of stolen jewelry comes up so Marlowe ditches the Malloy mess.
I love a little private dick action and this is perfectly satisfying!This story of a thug getting out of prison and trying to find his girl is fairly straightforward, but Raymond Chandler throws a bucketload of red herrings into Farewell, My Lovely in an attempt to throw you, dear reader, off the trail.
It's like a muddied up pond, but a pond nonetheless, so you can swim fairly easily through the murky waters to the other side.Don't get me wrong, Farewell, My Lovely is still really good reading and any fan of the genre will enjoy it.
Como ya dije antes, no me ha gustado nada de nada! Es más, me ha encantado! Desde luego Raymond Chandler supo crear un personaje único, irónico y humano que a día de hoy sigue enamorando al lector.
What makes you so wonderful?’Unfortunately for her, she isn't his type:‘I like smooth shiny girls, hard-boiled and loaded with sin.’I love Marlowes ability to bounce back.
What I had was a coat, a hat and a gun.'Chandler has such a way with words!'She gave me a smile I could feel in my hip pocket.'There's also a lot of beautiful landscape prose which can get missed and his attention to detail (or maybe Marlowe's) is impressive.
Everyone chain smokes and is practically alcoholic too.I love Chandler's writing and I have a black and white movie visual going on the whole way through.
It’s often a wonder Marlowe gets anything done when half the time he’s soaking himself in bourbon while seemingly trying to burn bridges with his smarmy attitude and general distaste for anyone he meets.Farewell, My Lovely is an excellent novel and a more than worthy follow up to The Big Sleep.
Chandler’s Philip Marlowe is one hell of an interesting character leaving me sad to know there are only six books in the series.Also posted @ Every Read Thing
Marlowe decides to stick with the guy having nothing better to do and as a result he keeps getting high level of entertainment, noir fashion: he gets shot at, people use his head for a drum set to knock him out, and tough guys try to beat the crap out of him.
He gets a client and a case later, but it only means having even more and diverse noir-style entertainment.Chandler's writing quality is high, as always.
The rating is 5 stars for the high entertainment value, writing quality, and influence.
I wish I had Lauren Bacall's looks and a mouth as salty as Phillip Marlowe's. The characters are such great throw backs to the days when men were Men and women were Dames. Chandler's writing is amazingly rich for this genre and the plot lines are just convoluted enough to keep you guessing. Phillip Marlowe is a great faceted character which contrasts nicely against the one-dimensional villains, cops and women who populate the stories. If authors like Sue Grafton are the gummi bears of the genre (low-cal, low fat, but tasty and fun), Raymond Chandler is the 70% dark chocolate.
It said drawlingly, after I had answered: "You are Philip Marlowe, a private detective?"More sucky prose in chapter 7...A wedge of sunlight slipped over the edge of the desk and fell noiselessly to the carpet.
Cars passed, spraying the pavement with cold white light, then growled off into the darkness again.
Some good parts of the book were preserved, but mostly the book had it's arms and legs amputated, and it's heart and brain scrambled.I'm watching the 1975 version with Robert Mitchum, Charlotte Rampling, Sylvia Miles, the late and wonderful Harry Dean Stanton and (surprise!) Sylvester Stallone!
In realtà, non dovrebbe esserci nulla d’interessante dato che la vittima è solo uno “scarafaggio”.” Accese mezzo sigaro e gettò il cerino sul pavimento, dove già molti altri lo attendevano.
Quello che stupisce è piuttosto come riesca a ricordarsene data la quantità industriale di whisky che ingurgita.Un romanzo che, a mio avviso, non supera la prova del tempo sia per lo stile di scrittura sia per l’esplicito razzismo (oltre agli scarafaggi appare anche un indiano e la sua caratteristica principale è quella di puzzare e parlare come un troglodita…) ed una vena misogina.
Un autore amato come dimostrano commenti e votazioni dei lettori ma probabilmente non è il genere di lettura che mi manda in estasi.
Everything had been done to it that anybody could think of.In one paragraph, Raymond Chandler's genre-defining noir detective Philip Marlowe perfectly describes this bouncer and what he looks like.
you know you've got a man who's not to be trifled with.
And you know you've got a story with more twists n turns than that same ball of yarn.
The detective in this kind of story must be such a man.
He talks as the man of his age talks—that is, with rude wit, a lively sense of the grotesque, a disgust for sham, and a contempt for pettiness.The story is this man’s adventure in search of a hidden truth, and it would be no adventure if it did not happen to a man fit for adventure.
What could be better than listening to Elliot Gould read a Philip Marlowe mystery?!
There was so much going on that, at times, I lost the thread, but that was only a minor irritation.
The ending brought everything together and made the chaos of what preceded make sense.If the book had been written today, I would have felt it to be derivative, but this is one of the originals from which noir is derived!
But it wasn't written today and spending some time in 1940's LA made reading this book a treat.
And did I mention Elliot Gould was brilliant?
Some dithering on my part between 4 and 5 stars—but I am going for 5 because I so enjoyed the reading experience.I fear that I will repeat myself a lot from my review of The Big Sleep.
Chandler’s writing is awesome—very expressive, yet very spare.
A delight to read.I very much receive the impression that Philip Marlowe is Raymond Chandler’s alter-ego, the man that he fantasized about being.
By all accounts a troubled man, Chandler certainly wrote the drinking scenes like he knew what he was talking about.
It may have been the thing that he and Marlowe shared most in common.Beautiful writing about less than beautiful subjects—Chandler is one of the masters.
After reading two of his novels now, I'm beginning to like Raymond Chandler much more for his writing than for his plots.
The novels are also a way for Chandler to examine American society of the time.While I am not much of an analyst when it comes to reading -- a) there are a huge number of analyses of Chandler and his writing all over the place and b)I'm just not good at it so don't pretend to be -- one thing I particularly noticed in my reading was Chandler's use of the color red.
Eyes like a girl, a lovely girl," with skin Marlowe describes as "soft as silk" and a voice that was "soft, dreamy, so delicate for a big man that it was startling.
“I like smooth shiny girls, hardboiled and loaded with sin.” Review for Trouble is My Business: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I know, Raymond Chandler and his Philip Marlowe series have a peerless place in the realm of hard boiled genre, even Mr. Haruki Murakami, my idol, is a huge fan of Mr. Chandler as well. but seriously Farewell, My Lovely is the only Marlowe's mystery among the total six or seven of the series that manages to stay in my mind.(link: https://media1.giphy.com/media/
Review for Trouble is My Business: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I know, Raymond Chandler and his Philip Marlowe series have a peerless place in the realm of hard boiled genre, even Mr. Haruki Murakami, my idol, is a huge fan of Mr. Chandler as well.
but seriously Farewell, My Lovely is the only Marlowe's mystery among the total six or seven of the series that manages to stay in my mind.(link: https://media1.giphy.com/media/l41lVs...)But what a crime mystery that is!
Plus when I re-read this book, I absolutely love seeing the 1940s American society through the MC's eyes and I also noticed just how awesomely Mr. Chandler could write!
If you wanted to read no-nonsense, punches-you-right-in-the-face book, try it out!(link: https://giphy.com/gifs/humphrey-bogar...)
"Even on Central Avenue, not the quietest dressed street in the world, he looked about as inconspicuous as a tarantula on a slice of angel food."I'm gonna admit right up front that the fourth star of my rating comes entirely from Raymond Chandler and his way with words.
But Raymond Chandler's books I really couldn't care less about character or plot.
The reason I hit it with my face, I got my chin scraped.
I was expecting this to be a noir but basically it was a like a Sherlock Holmes short story expanded to a novel.
And for that reason, despite my failed expectation, I liked this book.The language is quite old.
The murder of a dead black man (the book still uses the "N" word, that's one reason I say the language is old) is brushed aside by the LAPD and is assigned to a lazy and incompetent investigator, Nulty.
The murder is committed by a huge black guy Moose Malloy who is looking for his girlfriend Velma Valento.
Encountering a behemoth of an ex-con, Moose Malloy, on the street, Marlowe follows the big man into a bar and witnesses a murder.
And before the reader can ask, “Where’s my Velma?” – the question makes sense when you read the novel – Marlowe finds himself embroiled in police corruption, a blackmail scam, chasing a gang of jewelry thieves, another murder and encounters a young female who becomes his pseudo-partner, meets up with a psychic con-man and a crooked doctor and is propositioned by a beautiful young woman who is married to a much older and very wealthy man.
Immersed in the beauty of his prose, the way in which he presents his world, the timing of his humour, one scarcely notices the storyline, and I use that word advisedly.As it happened, style's been uppermost in my mind lately while editing a friend's autobiographical ms.
In her attempt to find her style she has resorted to a heavy-handed use of The Rhetorical Comma.
Eventually they began to enrage me.
I began viciously stabbing at them.
is now covered in angry crosses and one word spat out over and over, as if out of a Dalek.
Omit.
Omit.
Omit.Rest here:https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
In Farewell, My Lovely, Chandler's second novel, the activity opens with Marlowe researching an ordinary missing-individual's case.
Amid his interest, Marlowe discovers something much all the more intriguing inside and out.
He experiences Moose Molloy, a major bruiser simply out of prison and vigilant for his previous love, Velma.
The scene is Florian's, an 'eat and dice emporium', a place where Velma filled in as a vocalist at the season of Moose's conviction nearly eight years back.
Before he knows it, Marlowe is ideal smack dab in the middle; Moose, who doesn't appear to know his own particular quality, winds up breaking the block administrator's neck and heads off with a firearm leaving Marlowe to get drawn into the examination.
“She sighed. “All men are the same.” “So are all women—after the first nine.” ― Raymond Chandler, Farewell, My Lovely Detective Marlowe returns. In this tale he stumbled into a missing person case handed over to him by a disinterested detective.As usual, Marlowe meets colorful characters and suffers for it.This was an audio version by Elliot Gould. I doubt I can listen to any other audio narrator as he does it so well and you can tell he loves the novel series. MY GRADE: B plus to A minus.
I felt intrigued, captivated and amused by this unconventional character that by the time I finished Farewell My Lovely, I could only see Marlowe as a real person come to life, rather than a fictional character.
Yet there were moments in his dialogue where Marlowe revealed more of himself where he openly expresses out loud or through his train of thought, his vulnerability, his fears and distressed And it felt like the characteristics that we know so well in Marlowe - the sarcasm and hard edge attitude and the excessive drinking problem that was so prominent in this book - was just a way to cover up or to numb those feelings away.
He's a homophobic, mysogynist racist with a pretty large booze and cigarettes monkey hanging from his back.
Well, it's pretty simple: Chandler's writing is phenomenal.
He pretty much defined the crime noir genre with his beautifully descriptive writing.
Sorry; wrong Chandler...) He doesn't so much write as paint pictures with words and beautiful, if grimy, pictures they are.Also, his 'voice' is so distinctive and so engaging that it supersedes the unlikeable nature of his characters and skewers the reader like a maggot on a rusty fishhook, making it impossible to look away.
THIS BOOK IS ABOUT A DETECTIVE HE IS GETTING BEAT UP A LOT
