https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13597728-asylum
As I read the other reviews I wonder how horrible it must be to be one of those people who has to nitpick every little detail in a book rather than enjoy it. Personally, I found this an enjoyable story, with twists I didn't see coming and an interesting conclusion. I'd recommend it, just maybe not to an elitist book snob.
No spoilers, by the way.“...This type of ending is a special instance of deus ex machina, known as the folie adieu, which is French for "Are you fucking kidding me?”- Howard MittelmarkThe book fails as a suspense, because within a suspense novel, characterization should be key.
It is a sad, sad thing when a book fails at writing characters that are so poorly written that they cannot even force themselves into a mold.
There is Dan, our main character, a seemingly extra-bright 17-year old, with hints of past psychological trouble.
If this was a character-driven book, it fails utterly.The romance was forced, and it had no room in the plot.
Meh.
That was so so good, whaaaaaa? Exceeded my expectations with flying colours, yes it did. Perfect halloween read! Had me doing this every couple pages:
Unfortunately the title was the only thing that elicited that expected response, because the book was honestly extremely dry and wearisome.The idea behind the story was solid: 16 year-old Dan comes to stay for several weeks over the summer at a college prep program and he finds out their dorms are located in what once was an asylum for the criminally insane.
Dan's two friends, Abby and Jordan, also met each other for the first time on the bus that brought them to the school.
With Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children though, the pictures felt like they fit with the story much more and appeared to be incredibly authentic.
I enjoyed this book much more this time around than the last time I read it. I was itching for a creepy yet easy read and that's exactly what this gave me. I always enjoy it when the plot of a story is centred around an old, dark building with secrets to be uncovered. This provided all of that and more! Add in the slightly disturbing photographs and creepy handwritten notes and I'm 100% sold!
Creo que Madeleine Roux hace un trabajo increíble describiendo la atmósfera del asilo mental y de sus alas y habitaciones abandonadas, pues con cada descripción te transporta hacia allí y ya no estás más leyendo en tu cama, sino que estás en medio de una oficina subterránea llena de polvo, archivadores y fotografías espeluznantes colgadas en las paredes y cubriendo el piso.
así que todo esto hace que te integres más a lo que estás leyendo, que te lo creas más y que, por ende, lo sientas más real, como si lo estuvieras viviendo.Si bien los personajes principales de Asylum son Dan, Abby y Jordan, al último no lo soportaba.
Mini review:I highly recommend Asylum if you want to fall asleep in the middle of the day- which mind you, I haven't done since I was 4 years old, and well, now.
But of course, read this book if you're feeling lazy, and don't want to use your brain as Asylum does a perfect job in these two areas.
While it didn't give off the effect of a thrillingly spooky, the mystery part did give this novel some enjoyment- though insanely miniscule.What was just, bleh:I feel Roux created a bunch of world's randomest characters and threw them into the storyline.
I mean, I liked the book, but I wasn't attached to it.
I just didn't enjoy the book as much as I thought I would.
But when I read the book, I just didn't enjoy it.
Usually, when I read a book, I feel like I am the main character.
But I didn't feel like that in this book and I don't know why.
When I read the huge plot twist in this story, I felt like I saw it coming.
I want to be shocked and read a huge plot twist that gets me.
DNF at 50%.This book compares itself to Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children.
Just don't.I try really hard to finish this book but I wasn't enjoying reading anymore so I decided to dnf.
THE CHARACTERS.All the characters in the book are quite "empty", and they look more younger than they actually are (it gives a vibe of a childrens book, which it wasn't what i was exepted)), but the character that discourage more is the main character, Dan. he irrited me so much in this book.
The relationship between the characters didn't seem real.It developed too fast to look realistic.Don't recommend this book.
من فکر کنم مدت هاست کتاب ترسناک نخوندم!و واقعا لذت بردم از این کتاب. کتابی دلهره آور، پرکشش و مهیجبا سبک روایتی کاملاً خاص و جدیدو عکس هایی بسیار زیبا و جالبمن واقعاً از خوندن این کتاب لذت بردم. یعنی دو روز نشستم 260 صفحشو یک جا خواندمو خیلی وقتی می شد که کتابی رو اینطوری نخونده بودمو البته تبریک ویژه میگم به مترجمشاین کتاب رو به شدت به طرفداران ژانر وحشت توصیه میکنم
I'm sorry to say that Asylum is not the next Miss Peregrine's but it is a pretty good horror/thriller.
Miss Peregrine's was such an unique read because all of the photos that accompanied the story were original.
I felt like Jordan got the short end of the stick in this book because even though he is a main character, at times he felt kind of arbitrary.
He wasn't under-developed but I would have liked to see his character furthered in this book.
This book isn't the next Miss Peregrine's but it's definitely a must-read for horror fans.
Actually kind of impressed with this Young Adult horror story.Creepy cover ✔Horrible history ✔Mysterious happenings ✔Creepy AF location ✔Terrifying photos ✔The photos definitely make this book a hundred times creepier, even if most didn't really match the story.
I think the shudder effect comes from knowing that people and places like this did actually exist once upon a time.For any horror aficionado, haunted asylums aren't really anything new.
(Wait, what?)I guess I really liked the premise and this book scores major points for the creepy factor, but the story itself felt a bit weak to me.
So I will state what I liked and what I did not like and the rest is up to the reader to decide whether or not to read it.So here we go......I picked up the book and loved the cover and the opening.
It was okay to read but I loved the pictures and hopefully there is going to be a sequel because I had more questions than answers.I hope this review helps and I am sorry but I just can't rate it you have to read it to see for yourself whether or not you liked it.

I'm not sure what to make of this one! On one hand, it was SUCH a fast read and I did have fun reading it. On the other hand, it definitely wasn't scary, I saw the culprit coming a million miles away (literally in the first chapter!), and the characters were kind of awful. 2.5 stars? RTC!Buddy read with Kaleena!
من واقعا از خوندن این کتاب ترسیدم! و واقعا می ترسم دو جلد بعدی مجموعه رو بخونم!
I'm really disappointed in this book. I don't know if it was the narrator of the audiobook or if I just didn't like the writing but it wasn't for me. Honestly I had it all figured out pretty early on and I was waiting for a twist but it was just kind of predictable. Not for me which is a shame as it's been on my list forever.
What would you do if you attended a college that used to be an asylum for the criminally insane?In the book “Asylum” by Madeleine Roux, sixteen year old Dan Crawford was attending New Hampshire College Prep, which was just your average summer program - or so he thought.
When Dan comes to know that his dorm used to be an insane asylum, he starts noticing a change in the atmosphere of the college.
Something just wasn't right.Dan and his newly found friends, Jordan and Abby, discover an abandoned wing of the college that led straight into the asylum.
I wanted to read a scary book, something that would chill me to the bone, a dark, deep, twisted read.
Dan meets Jordan, Abby and his new roommate Felix but after a short time at the asylum, nothing is quite what it seems.
Dan starts to suffer from hallucinations, Jordan and Dan from nightmares and all of the friends from disturbing images and creepy texts that threaten to kill them all.
It's then that Dan starts to question his true heritage and because of this, he is determined to get to the bottom of the mystery.
It gets a bonus 0.25 stars because of the mini little twist at the end that I wasn't expecting.This book definitely got better as it went along.
The writing got less juvenile and immature as the story went on.
The romance plot ended up lessening to the point where it was a nice break.
Characters grew up and matured and the story got much more interesting.
Overall a really huge improvement.That being said, the setting of the story is definitely the best part.
I really enjoy that she made the setting a character itself and did a very good job of that.
Mucho gancho, muy atrapante. Aunque esperaba algo más terrorífico y volví a adivinar al asesino al toque, la autora sabe como manejar el misterio, como jugar con la cabeza del lector y por un momento sentí que me estaba volviendo completamente loca a la par de Dan intentando deducir qué pasaba (sentimiento muy apropiado para esta lectura. Muy creepy considerando varios mensajes que te deja). Las imágenes que acompañan la narración son espeluznantes y complementan muy bien la trama. Para mi gusto le faltaron algunos "cómos", pero en términos generales un libro adictivo.Muy bueno.
I cannot stress this enough - this is a horrible and poorly executed book, particularly in that there is no way to get a refund for the time I spent reading it.
Despite the fact that you can easily ascertain where the story is heading within the first few chapters, the storyline is plodding at best and fails to pick up the pace until you are more than two-thirds of the way through the book.
Between the lackluster writing, uninspiring characters, and tediously predictable plot, the only satisfying aspect of the book's ending was that my suffering in reading it was finally over.
The cover is super creepy and the story echoes that. YA creepy is about all the horror I can handle and this was just perfect. I think the first spine tingling thing was the main character having the same name as the warden. If you're into things that go bump in the night then this one's for you.
Asylum, on the other hand, is exactly what it says on the tin, but is unsuccessful at achieving literally anything it set out to accomplish, because it is terribly written.True story: I actually considered jumping ship from Peregrine to Asylum right around the time I realized that it was going to become X-Men Babies, BUT, after reading through a thirty-page sample of Asylum on break, I sat my ass right back down.I was not prepared for the kind of prose Asylum was selling.
خب عالی بود. مخصوصاً وقتایی که نیمههای شب سراغش میرفتم و میخوندمش. واقعاً هیجان داشت. متأسفانه حدسهام اشتباه از آب در اومد. بیشترین شکی که داشتم بیگناه از آب در اومد :|پیشنهاد من: به هیچ عنوان این کتاب رو از دست ندین و اگه میخواین حس مورمور بهتون بده شب بخونینش! خیلی کیف میده! :-D
خب عالی بود. مخصوصاً وقتایی که نیمه‌های شب سراغش می‌رفتم و می‌خوندمش. واقعاً هیجان داشت. متأسفانه حدس‌هام اشتباه از آب در اومد. بیشترین شکی که داشتم بی‌گناه از آب در اومد :|پیشنهاد من: به هیچ عنوان این کتاب رو از دست ندین و اگه میخواین حس مورمور بهتون بده شب بخونینش! خیلی کیف میده! :-D
3.5 era un libro que no me llamaba porque la temática no es lo mío pero me entretuve bastante claro que no pude evitar pensar en esas películas de terror como grave encounters (creo que así se llama ;p) y eso se me hacia algo creppy pero la verdad me gusto y tengo curiosidad de leer los siguientes
3.5 Stars In many ways, this was a very typical piece of young adult fiction with a lot of the tropes that are so common. The inclusion of pictures in the novel certainly enhanced the creepiness of the story.
Check out my video review to see my full opinion on the book! https://youtu.be/CsrsV28pB7s
I wasn't sure about the book at first, to be honest.
One little mistake in the direction on an illustration and about 95% of the kids being read to picked it out immediately.
The little details can matter.) Still a really nice touch using all of the old photos, though.Second peeve is Danny's massive crush on Abby - it hits a bit too close to insta-love for comfort.
Danny-boy is way to obsessively crushing on Abby after only meeting her once, and way too jealous given how little he knows her.
