https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84981.Tuck_Everlasting

All except the younger son, Jesse, who asks Winnie to wait until she's 17, then drink from the fountain and join him in eternal life.The book is full of circle of life type of imagery: a Ferris wheel pauses in its turning, seasons pass, water drifts downstream to the ocean.
The Tuck family feels like the wheel has stuck for them--they're like rocks by the side of the road, while all around them people are changing and growing and living and dying.
I do feel like the book kind of begs the question of why the Tucks couldn't learn more, grow more, have their sons find girls who would want to live eternally with them.
I read this book as a birthday gift to the one and only Awesome Kat Stark who is celebrating her birthday on September 27.
SUPER HAPPY BIRTHDAY, KAT!
Once in my young life, I dreamed of becoming immortal and invisible and you have to admit you did too.
Like any classic middle school books, this one will fascinate you, teach you, inspire you, entertain you and make you tear up a little (it’s inevitable).After all, how can we forget Spidey’s uncle’s great words:*sniffs*You’ll never go wrong with middle school books!AGAIN, HAPPY BIRTHDAY, KAT!
<3 Want the same birthday gift, my friends?
This book is a quiet read.
Even the drama has a hot, sleepy, summer feel to it.
Have a lazy long weekend to just curl up, this is a small and in someways sad, read.I teach this book to my students for lots of reasons.
It lets us talk about metaphors and similes.
The language is not complicated but it is artistic.
I use it when working with predicting texts.
Also, and maybe mostly, it's great for some of those big questions if you're having your students reflect upon life and family.
What is a family?
What is a family?
I really don't know of any other books that explore the subject of life and perils of immortality, except for this one.
Yes, I still think I wouldn't appreciate eternal life.
It's easy to think like this because at the end of the day, death truly is all the option we have.
I think of Winnie's choice, how bittersweet the ending of this book was because of it.
Seems like a pretty good thing to me." I took a little break from reading, got out of bed and looked out the window.
I think I like snow and winter a little more with each passing year.
The book itself introduces the character of Winnie Foster, an eleven-year-old girl who meets the Tuck family and soon learns of their unbelievable secret: that the four members of that family are immortal after they drank from a magic spring.Natalie Babbitt's prose is strong and powerful, drawing a convincing picture of how life can possibly work without death.
Yet the potential was exploited almost completely, additionally helped by some strong messages (the connection between life and death, the ideas of human greed and constant change, the contrast between morality and craving, and the values of love and humanity).The only thing which constantly bothered me was the way the Tuck family behaved - at least except for Jesse, the youngest son.
It made me think of both Beatrix Potter and Lewis Carroll, and the 10-year-old protagonist, Winnie Foster, takes readers on an Alice-esque journey of wonder and questions and confusion.Here, in Tuck Everlasting, the grass is “forlorn,” the sky is “blue and hard now,” and the sun is "a ponderous circle without edges.”Yet, it is not another world, a middle-earth, or any such thing.
And it's wonderful for readers and writers to be exposed to Ms. Babbitt, who writes like a hobbit.
Moving, growing, changing, never the same two minutes together."Geez - who wouldn't want to live forever?
And, one thing I never thought of until I read this book - you'd need to move around quite a bit, as others became suspicious of your lack of visible aging.
"I want to grow again," he said fiercely, "and change.
And if that means I got to move on at the end of it, then I want that, too.
Things that annoyed other readers - the age difference between Winnie and Jesse, the few plot holes, the ending - didn't bother me a bit.
Really...try not to cry.Reread for our #tmgreadalong classics challenge! Discussion on the blog Friday 1/30.
Never actually read this book as a child - only saw the movie. Listened to the audiobook for booktubeathon with my boyfriend and we both loved it! It's a very radio-drama-esque good vs. evil story, but it's charming and fun and we had a delightful time.
The Tuck family lives in the small rural town of Treegap, New Hampshire.
There is a spring there, located in the Foster's Wood, with water that will give you immortality.
The Tuck family knows this because 80 years earlier they drank the water and haven't aged a day since.
But now 10 year old Winnie Foster has discovered their secret which creates all kinds of problems for everyone involved, and so the story unfolds.
It's a thought provoking story with great characters that are easy to love, and the ending has a little bit of a twist.
However, the Cullens are vampires and the idea of vampires being immortals was originally thought of by Bram Stoker while the Tucks have drank water from the spring of youth which is similar to the fountain of youth that was first thought of by Herodotus several years ago before the birth of Jesus Christ.If Gretel and Hansel fooled the wicked witch by making them feel a bone that they found inside the iron cage (presumably a bone from the witch previous captive), 10-y/o Winnie Foster, this novel’s main protagonist, fooled the prison personnel by covering herself with the bed sheet and pillows to make her as big as Mae Tuck who was imprisoned for killing the man who overheard the family’s secret.
In the book, Winnie wants to run away because she is tired of being cooped up being the only child.
It means that my more mature self has picked plot holes and problems where only beauty and simplicity should reign.
There were many coincidences and plot holes and, again, this is something that probably would not bother or even be picked up on by the audience it was aimed for.
I also felt like the age difference between Winnie and Jesse was wrong on so many levels...In all, this is a very sweet and simplistic tale and I am only sorry that I had not read it when I was younger, to truly appreciate the brilliance of the story.
We loved this story, we loved the concept, the descriptions of nature, the relationships between the characters. The music box was an interesting part, we really wanted to know what tune it played. We couldn't predict the ending and we enjoyed speculating how this story would be concluded. Despite really enjoying this at the time, I was left with a sad feeling after the story had ended.
It would be awesome if I got to live forever just like the Tucks get to do in the book Tuck Everlasting.2/26/13The theme of Tuck Everlasting is "Never trust people even if they look nice at first." The reason why I believe this is the theme is because Winnie thought the man in the yellow suit was friendly and nice, but he’s also acting very suspicious like he knows something about Winnie’s family.
Like the man in the yellow suit tried to do to Winnie.
#reread A beautiful novel. I read this aloud to my still-in-utero baby and loved it. (But 100-year-old-trapped-in-a-17-year-old-body Jesse was very creepy for asking 10-year-old Winnie what he asked. Immortal human beings mature and change even if their ages and appearances do not. I'd like to see this reflected more in fiction, though some results would be scaaaandalous.)
Actual rate 4.5What a short and yet remarkable story. I just wish the prologue were longer.
One could say that almost every book I read in my 5th grade class made some kind of an impression on me.
Such books like Sleepover Friends and Baby-Sitters Club passed the time.
But my reading teacher (Mrs. Llewellyn) picked winners for every book.
Not only an interesting story, but one that made you think and truly ask yourself questions about what you believed and why.Read again for Children's Lit class in May 2006 for classic fiction lesson.
Tale to make you think.
I agree with it being a classic.
Tuck Everlasting is definitely classic and really unforgettable; it was one of the first books I read as a kid that actually made me really think about life itself.
The book was well written and I liked how immortality was sen through the eyes of 6 people, but the Winnie/Jesse relationship was a little creepy. Despite that I liked it.
That's what young Winnie Foster has to decide in this beloved novel by Natalie Babbitt.Even though I'm pretty sure that I've read this book before (don't think less of me for not remembering; it was over twelve years ago), I had a very pleasant time reading this classic children's novel.
Coming across Jesse Tuck in the woods and subsequently meeting the rest of the Tuck family showed Winnie a lot about life and really living, and it made me wish that I could really have the chance to choose to age gracefully or be immortal.The characters in this charming book do not disappoint.
Some books never change. No matter how old you get :)
"Ölmek de çarkın bir parçasıdır, doğmak da.
Bir parçayı alıp geri kalanın görmezden gelemezsin.
Bütününün bir parçası olmak Tanrının bir lütfudur.
Eğer ölüm yoksa yaşamın ne anlamı var ki?
O zaman yaşam olarak adlandıramazsın bile."Masal tadında bir hikaye.
Kısa ve derin.
Yaşam ve ölüm üzerine.
Bitirdiğimde kendi kendime dedim ki bir gün öleceksin, bir gün öleceksin.
Farkına var.
Çocuk kitabı olarak geçiyor fakat hüzünlü, ölümün kendisi gibi işte.
Betimlemeler bile konuyla uyumlu yazılmış.
Kitapta geçen ağustos sıcağının durağanlığı gibi, yaşam ve ölüm temasını hissettiğim noktada bir yavaşlama ihtiyacı duydum.
Yavaşlayıp yaşama bakma, yaşadığımı hissetme ihtiyacı.Kesinlikle öylesine yazılmış bir çocuk kitabı değil.
As far as I know, this award-winning, modern-classic is still on the Grade 5 curriculum in BC schools.
The story deals with the universal themes of life and death; the main idea being that there is a natural cycle to life.
If you could choose to live forever, would you do so?
What would it be like if you did?
This story poses these two questions, and asks the reader to think.
At the same time, Natalie Babbitt entertains by writing a highly engaging narrative, filled with beautiful and descriptive language.
Our lives may not be timeless, but this book is.
Many more readers if all ages are now enjoying the wide range of powerful stories written for YA audiences.
I'm writing this quick little review today because I learned the author, Natalie Babbitt, has just passed away and so her stories and the ways in which they touched my life are foremost in my mind today.
I taught this book for many years as a fifth grade teacher and I hope it continues to be read by readers of all ages.
Tadiana wrote such a beautiful review...it captivated me all over again.
I'll reread the book tonight in tribute to Ms Babbitt.
In this fantasy, 10-year old Winnie stumbles upon the secret of the Tucks' magic spring.
The poetic elements of the writing, the beautiful descriptions of the natural settings, the imagery--it was all so rich I often reached for the book after getting out of the car so I could savor some of Babbitt's writing one more time.
Her descriptions of the summer days of 10-year old Winnie took me back--that's how I remember summer.
Along the way, tension repeatedly rises and then frames a question, and the reader is drawn into Winnie's situation--what would we do?
This is a great book for young and old alike--timeless, like the Tucks.
I expect I shall find fable all the the way through.UPDATED March 30OK, I really did like this book.
It did stay fable all the way through.
OrderI think the theme of Chaos v.
Not that it was hard to spot or that the other themes were simplistic, but chaos and order permeated everything, from the fenced yard to the cabin in the forest, to the messy house, to the consequences of falling out of your place in the universe.
“Don’t be afraid of death; be afraid of an unlived life. You don’t have to live forever, you just have to live.” If you had the opportunity to drink from the spring of youth and live forever, would you? And would you show it to someone else?
Just as sweet and heartbreaking the second time around, it's no surprise that this one is so revered.
I read this way back when I was in middle school, so I'll do my best to put some sort of tolerable review together.
The first chapter is entirely description."The next thought: "???"Then: "Wait.
But otherwise, past the really weird and descriptive beginning, this book was just plain awesome."Natalie Babbitt's Tuck Everlasting is one of the few classics I've enjoyed.
to life.Though it was rather sad at times, I loved how this book portrayed death as sometimes being a blessing.
Disney fixed the weird age gap, and just made it quite a bit better.
:)But yes, this was a good read.
