https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316796.Out_of_My_Life_and_Thought
Albert Schweitzer was undoubtedly a genius.
He was a trained theologian and organist who published scholarly works in a variety of disciplines.
At the age of 30, he decided to devote his life to the serving humanity.
He wanted to go to Africa as a doctor, so he resigned his faculty position and enrolled in medical school.
Over the next 50 years, he spent much of his time in Africa.
The conflict between Schweitzer's devotion to his practice and his family obligations is fascinating to me and never addressed in his memoir.
I would be interested in a biographer's analysis of a complicated and remarkable life.
One of those depressing books in that when it is done you ask yourself what have I done with my life?
However, in this my first exposure to his writing, I find him just a touch too arrogant when he describes his philosophy, a little too confident that he has answered all questions.
Of course, he may truly have been a recognized expert in all his diverse interests, I don't know.
Of course, he wrote the autobiography only midway through his life and still made several trips to Africa after its publication.
Was it a little too soon to be writing an autobiography?
I found some of the selfless action, but so far have not found the humility or the depth of philosophy that I would have expected.
An introduction to the life and thought of a great missionary, doctor to the tribes of Equatorial Africa, man of letters and theologian who was also an expert on the music of Bach and played the world's greatest music on the world's greatest church organs. From the simple truths he learned from everyday living to the deeper truths he discovered through extensive research, the book is filled with wisdom.
Some people describe him as a modern saint, and, frankly, I respect him a lot more than Mother Teresa.
Schweitzer was a genius: in this book, he describes his twenties to be productive in terms of the literature that he wrote, and he wrote analyses from Bach to Christ.
He was undoubtedly a genius, but despite his family and friends' arguments, he went on to serve as a medical missionary in Africa.
He was more of a saint than Mother Teresa.
Despite my respect towards him, though, this wasn't a very creative book of his.
"But however concerned I was with the suffering in the world, I never let myself become lost in brooding over it.
Though the writing can be dense due to the academic style and musings on the nature of Christianity, love, service, and music, it is a wonderful thing to be transported in to the words and thoughts of someone I so admire.
Interestingly enough, he speaks to the ills of a thoughtless world in his time: the early 1900's.
I've scribbled notes in the margins and highlighted passages for future reference.**Popsugar Challenge 2017: Book written by someone you admire.
Whilst he believed himself devoutly religious it seemed to me that the more he analysed the fundamental contradictions of the bible and the different interpretations the more the absurdity of the enterprise of religion is revealed.
Ironically the mission in Africa to which he applied initially wanted nothing to do with him because of the controversy of his research into the bible.
His is one of the few books about life in the First World War that revealed some compassion and mutual respect between prisoners and their jailors.
I still have the Epilogue to finish but my husband is taking his Kindle with him home tomorrow.
A quick look at the Epilogue makes me think that will be just fine.
I tired of Schweitzer's long summaries of the books he was writing, particularly The Philosophy of Civilization.
I wonder how anyone could think that he could write such a book and so confidently state that "Reverence for Life" was the answer to his quest for meaning.
However, I do greatly admire Schweitzer and his abilities in so many facets of life--giving organ recitals, writing about Bach, preaching, teaching, doctoring, and even hands-on building and directing construction projects.
Mit sehr viel Ernst berichtet er von seinen theologischen Studien. Dann die Entscheidung, als Arzt nach Afrika zu gehen. Dazu in relativ hohem Alter noch Medizin studiert. Ein eitler Mann. Es geht fast nur um seine intellektuellen Leistungen und sein Orgelspiel. Auch darüber, und über Bach, hat er sich ausgelassen. Das Private kommt grotesk kurz. Gattin wird einmal in einem Nebensatz eingeführt. Natürlich muss man Respekt haben, aber er kommt nicht eben sympathisch rüber.
Whoever among us has learned through personal experience what pain and anxiety really are must help to ensure that those out there who are in physical need obtain the same help that once came to him.
He no longer belongs to himself alone; he has becomes the brother of all who suffer...medical people must do for the suffering in far-off lands what cries out to be done in the name of true civilization."And his attitude toward the problem of evil:"But however concerned I was with the suffering in the world, I never let myself become lost in brooding over it.
A philosopher and mystic argues for rational thought and what he called reverence for life.
"I am in complete disagreement with the spirit of our age, because it is filled with contempt for thought." The primary issue of philosophy was to achieve an active ethic, a realistic confrontation with reality.
"Rational thought boils over into mystical thought.
Mysticism is knowledge of the infinite.
Mysticism is not the flower on the plant of thought.
How could rational thought lead to mystical thought?
What does thought have to do with mysticism?
How can there be knowledge of the infinite?
Love, love, love Albert and all his wonderful accomplishments, however, this particular book didn't make the grade for me.
His command of English prose cannot be denied, but I was hoping for highlights and insights rather than tedious description of reminiscence and recollections, whole paragraphs of which a good editor would have tossed out today.
For example, pages of painstaking description of his Hebrew studies finally got to the point which was why he persevered in these studies and its effect on his later work.
Again, just not what I had hoped.
There are several other good biographies published on Mr. Schweitzer that I prefer.
A theologian, professor, lecturer, author, authority on comparative religion, philosopher, professional musician, humanitarian, physician, and much more I am surely forgetting, spends most of his adult life providing medical care in the depths of Africa.
The reason for only three stars has nothing to do with the story of his life, but in many places the story didn't move along, and I wanted more of his thoughts on philosophy and theology and less on organ (the musical instrument) building and comparative playing.
I must now find the books he wrote on those subjects.
The book I own is much older than the example picture.
This book was part of an exercise a friend gave me.
He had me take my Myers-Briggs and then to search for famous people with the same final profile.What grew on me as I read this book was a realization that the traits I most downplay in myself were actually Albert's greatest strengths.
Which made me realize they are my greatest strengths as well.And I fell in love with his yearning to not only be in service but to redefine civilization to unite ethics with a real view of the world - around compassion for all living things.Note: It can be heavy lifting to push past all the organ playing and Christian research, but I found the book worth it.
A great autobiography of a great man.
He had the audacity to take Jesus seriously when he said, "Those who seek to save their life shall lose it, and those who lose their life for my sake and the gospel's, shall save it." Living life for others -- we could use more like him in our own time.
The main drawback of the book is that in the early chapters he gets wrapped up in technical theological arguments, which will leave many readers scratching their heads.

Well worth reading.
Schweitzer is a commanding character of the early 20th century, an humanitarian of the highest class.
The book reveals may personal insights and glimpses into his soul.
We read of a pious missionary, a dedicated physician, and a staunch anti-war advocate.
We also glimpse his mania and his religious zeal.
Much can be learned from an excellent man such as Schweitzer and hearing it in his own voice is a precious gift.
The book is definitely dated in its style and he does writing voluminously on his interpretations of the Bible, so there are some portions which are easily bypassed.
I read this book when a freshman at the University of South Florida in 1960. About the only thing I remember is the phrase “Reverence for Life.” This time I realized our much fuller of ideas and experience this book contains. Whether one is religious or not Schweitzer impresses me with his thought and the process he goes through in developing his ideas. Most impressive are his many accomplishments during these early years, ranging from his religious, philosophical, music to his medical studies.
I would have enjoyed this book more if it had been more of the sort of autobiography that chronicled his life experiences. Instead, a good portion of it read as a condensed version of his previously published works. While interesting, it was not quite what I was expecting and made for some dense reading.
Very insightful content. I obtained a flush or flesh of new information while reading this. I did notice that Schweitzer had an interesting view on European colonization. I would love to visit the hospital he helped establish.
This book made a profound impact on my life when I encountered it as a teenager. Schweitzer's philosophy of 'reverence for life' struck a chord that inspired me even though it has been a difficult standard to try to live by.
A memoir by a great thinker and a great humanitarian. Not always interesting; but when it is, it ascends to heights of astonishing clarity rarely attained by even the greatest classics. A rewarding read.
I really enjoyed this book.It wasn't an easy read because of his philosophical/theological ideas. It was hard to totally understand what he was saying. But he was an amazing man and it was worth the effort.
Wow. Truly an amazing man, but I used this book to help me fall asleep at night. Just a page, page and a half would do it. I'd sleep like a baby.
Inspiring, then sad.
Is this even worth finishing?
recommended...I can't wait to reread this after recently reading "Things Fall Apart"
This is a really wonderful book; so inspiring. This book is the reason I've been a vegetarian for 18 years!
See, I put this book in a lot of categories because if there ever was a renaissance man, Albert Schweitzer fits the bill. Brilliant.
Certainly an interesting guy with lots of fingers in different pies. Probably better as a philanthropist than a philosopher. He certainly seems to know his way around an organ.
