https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1564832.Far_Away_and_Long_Ago
This book tells the story of the author's childhood and boyhood on the Argentine pampas.
His was a warm and loving family in which the children had plenty of freedom to explore the natural world around them, since they were educated at home in their early years.
There is an elegiac mood created as he states that many of the wonderful natural places he knew as a child were now gone forever due to the spread of agriculture.This book was written one hundred years ago but his observations about the disappearance of natural spaces are still valid for today.
The strangeness of the world is never-ending, particularly in the memoirs of those who have long ago left us. Hudson evokes a bird-world in South America that even he laments as lost, from his burrow in the smokey London of his exile. He knew what was happening in his homeland, the spread of efficient agriculture that doomed wetlands and their denizens. And this was over a century ago. The beauty and oddity of this memoir just absolves it of the terrible pain it causes. That seemed to have been Hudson's case as well.
This book is the memoir of the author while living in the argentinian field. I've been drawn to read this, because of the birds (Hudson loved birds and is always describing them). I also liked how everyday life is portrayed - and I loved that they ate lamb with peaches in conserve. I would really like to get to read his other books, though they are very hard to find - I got this book at a second-hand bookshop in Avda. Corrientes. There's also an illustrated version out there.
This autobiography of William Henry Hudson covers his early years. It was an interesting look at life in Argentina in the mid 1800's. This audio book was read by multiple readers. In this case it was rather distracting since not all were very distinct readers. Also, the book was rather rambling and back and forth in time. Hudson usually made it clear when he was changing time so it wasn't too confusing. Overall, it was interesting enough to continue through the entire book.
Weird.That aside, it was an exceptional book that acquainted me with a curious and wonderful world that I had no idea had ever existed, and when the last page was turned and the story done, I hated to close the book and let it go.To fully appreciate the memoir, I had to do a little outside reading.
That's because the Argentine, as well as the rest of South America, under Spanish rule, had been more peaceful and prosperous, and once the colonial rulers were expelled, anarchy and warfare became the norm.To Hudson as a little boy awakening to a beautiful natural world, all this was an only rarely troubling aspect of his existence.

Toen ik jong was en de dieren nog spraken, was er een programma op de radio dat Het Einde van de Wereld heette.
De kleine Hudson kan “gebiologeerd van verrukking luisteren naar de wilde roep van de goudpluvier” (p.239) en geraakt helemaal in de ban van de rijke fauna en flora van zijn omgeving.Voor een stedeling uit de 21ste eeuw die amper het verschil kent tussen een esp en iep, is de opsomming van dieren- en plantennamen behoorlijk confronterend.
(and conflict with Chile)It’s a fascinating view into a lost way of life – he was a naturalist and ornithologist and evokes a bird, animal and natural world.Despite having little education – a moving, lyrical style.
The death of his mother, his struggle with faith – search to become spiritual and his animism are beautifully and humblingly described.
The animistic faculty (something divine in nature) is lost to civilized man?
(Slitting the throat of their captain)No details about his family – not even their names, yet he describes his neighbours in great detail.
Pocos libros me conmovieron tanto como este.
The death of his mother, his illness and the sentence inflicted by the doctors of a short life, the angst of knowing that his beloved nature, trees, birds and all to be lost soon, produces a struggle of faith against the pullings of new-come Darwinism and its partisans.
But W.H.Hudson´s desire was enough to grant him the faith he so much struggled to retain in the passage from childhood to manhood.An inspiring story, humbling and beautifully told.
Other reviewers have spoken about the joy of hearing the voice of a young man who would later become a botanist.I enjoyed the book, which is essentially a collection of connected vignettes, reading about a boy who had an even more "feral" upbringing than my own, lying somewhere near Huck Finn territory.
Even in the author's time, he noted how, in just the space between his birth and adulthood, how many species had been hunted to extinction, or driven out of habitat, something relatively rare to read about in the era he was writing.
It has a charm for me that never fades—the charm of a sensitivie, warm, kind-hearted personality who was in love with the natural world around him from the time he first encountered it.
Hudson was shy and unhealthy as a child and noticed everything in nature with utter fascination.
It is a delightful record of childhood impressions and misimpressions along with a gradual awakening to the beauties of the natural world and the beginning of a lifelong fascination with birds.
Whenever the modern world becomes too noisy and intrusive, it is a pleasure to turn to this joyful and lyrical memoir.
It is his biography of his early years on the pampas south of Buenos Aires.
The early and late nineteenth century were years of great isolation in this part of the world.
His descriptions of birds in their environment, of snakes under the house, of fishermen in Buenos Aires, of violent fights between gauchos: it is all part of an amazing youth.
He saw more by ten or twelve years of age than many of us see in an entire life time.
I will read on in his story of when of his return to and adult life in England.
It's a little difficult to expand on my title for this review.The author suffered an acute illness i
¿Es posible mantener fresco en la memoria el asombro y la fascinación que sentimos, siendo niños, la primera vez que vimos un flamenco?
¿Y el miedo reverencial cuando, por vez primera, contemplamos una serpiente?
Guillermo Hudson relata con mirada de niño y de sabio (la misma mirada, realmente) su infancia en un área rural de la provincia de Buenos Aires.
El futuro naturalista creció entre árboles y pájaros pero también en un período de fuego de la historia argentina, con las batallas entre unitarios y federales a pocas leguas.
Con lenguaje elegante y poético, conoceremos los recuerdos y las aventuras del "inglesito" (hijo de estadounidenses, en realidad) que creció y amó las pampas.
There is something very special about this book, its magical descriptions of Argentina, told in a warm-hearted, simple but carefully detailed way. You feel, as you read, as if you are there. Can't reccommend highly enough.
Charming. Quite similar to Durrell's My Family and Other Animals.

Very descriptive of the culture and customs of Argentina in the 1850's. Great stories of escapades and adventures, flora and fauna, critters and creatures. You can put it down for days and pick right back up...it's a collection of his childhood experiences. I MADE myself read it, most of it was plodding, but the last 3 chapters regarding his affection for his mother, his search for understanding of truth regarding life after death and life's purpose pulled me through the rest of the book.
A unique and highly personal memoir of a boy's life on the Argentine pampas in the late 1800's. Hudson was highly sensitive to and attracted by the natural environment, and went on to become a naturalist during the time of Darwin's dawning influence. I loved this unconventional book, including its loving descriptions of plants & animals, especially birds, and it's antiquated but touching language.
I am really not sure how to rate this book. I was enjoying it quite a lot; the writing is beautiful despite some overly precious self-indulgence. However, halfway through the book a few thin but strong strands of bigotry began to twine through the narrative. Killed the whole thing for me and left a sour taste in my mouth.
Like a wonderful walk in nature with a friend
Un libro realmente maravilloso.
Good reading when in Argentina, to get a feel for the way life on the pampas was at the end of the 19th century.
Un libro molto bello, anche se non si riesce a leggerne tanto in una volta. Superate le difficoltà legate all'inglese (molti termi relativi a nomi di uccelli, piante, etc.) regala emozioni profonde. Credo di non aver mai letto descrizioni così particolareggiate e vivide. La pampa argentina alla fine dell'800 vista con gli occhi di un bambino. Semplicemente splendido.
LONG AGO AND FAR AWAY is a memoir he wrote of his boyhood.
I read LONG AGO AND FAR AWAY because I’m contemplating a trip to Argentina and wanted to read something about it.
The reader doesn’t learn much of what’s going on in Argentina; that’s pardonable since Hudson at eight or nine probably didn’t know much either.
But there’s a chapter when the family is threatened by a band of defeated soldiers and the reader knows nothing of what the fighting was all about.
Moreover, Hudson’s father – of whom we never get a satisfactory picture – eventually loses the family estancia, apparently through negligence.
I have a faint recollection of reading this book, or a shortened version, years ago at school.
My only recollection of that was the sense of peace and tranquility that his writing style conveyed and I feel the same now.
As Conrad said of him 'He writes as the grass grows'.
It is also an interesting insight into settler life in rural Argentina of the 1840s and 50s and has some similarities to Gerald Durrell's 'My family and other animals', being an account of the life of a growing boy who has a passion for wildlife - although there is little humour.
I take great delight in fine thoughts finely expressed. With that being said, I have a soft spot for Hudson's literature. Or should I rather say for his accurateness in describing the workings of the mind, which baffles me. His tenderness in describing nature, his beloved childhood places and the people that he met and that meant something to him throughout his life, filled me with joy. This book here, as well as Green Mansions, are lost treasures, which should get more recognition. Certainly a pleasure to have read it!
It took me a while to get into this book but once I started I managed to keep up the momentum. The story about the story was interesting but it is difficult to comprehend Hudson's lot until he deals with Darwinism and his own inclinations as a naturalist. Delivered as the story of one's boyhood, it is not until after finishing the book and reading the preface, one reflects and Hudson's genius comes to light.
I'm not sure I can actually mark this book as read... it's more like I gave up. This may be the most boring book I've ever attempted to read. I made it about half way through, waiting for something of importance to actually happen, but nothing did. The author is a pompous bigot who tells little snippets of his childhood that mostly focus on naming the tress and birds that he observed. Snooze-o-rama.
