https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2177236.Hold_Tight
It moves in short chapters between several separate story lines which eventually intertwine in a very clever way.
Of course, being Coben, there are lots of twists and turns along the way with one I was really not expecting right at the end.Coben excels at writing this sort of middle class family drama/mystery.
The children and parents in the story all suffer from problems which come along with reasonably affluent life styles - drugs and alcohol, helicopter parenting and teenagers fighting back.
Where does the parent draw the line in letting their children grow up and yet still protecting them?
I just downgraded my rating from 4 to 3.
This was a good holiday read, always quick to move along as all of HC reads are.
I know a few characters pop up in many of his stories, but I couldn't place who the DA was marrying, although I could place the character of the DA.
I have the worst book memory!
Who can help me here?!I do prefer the Myron Bolitar series to his stand alones, but his reads are always a good pick for me.
Regardless, I will keep reading HC.
Easy reading and I get on well together.
A confession has been made - Hester is the bitch lawyer, LeCrue and Duncan are cops.
I think my favourite sentences in this paragraph are the first ("I can't be bothered actually writing any sort of moving scene, so I'll just say that the room pretty much exploded - that'll do") and the wounds being ripped open and closed - what the hell kind of imagery is that?
Lazy, boring writing, crappy cardboard characters, no more Harlan Coben for me.
Over the last few years, Harlan Coben has pretty much cornered the market on the middle-class suburban New Jersey family thriller genre.Hold Tight explores a number of difficult issues that confront lots of families, including the matter of how to balance parental oversight with giving your children the room to grow and become strong independent individuals, the question of how one attempts to balance a career with your family responsibilities, and the difficulties of managing as a single parent.Mike and Tia Baye are becoming increasingly concerned about their son, Adam, who is sixteen.
[4.5 Stars]
Adam Baye is a typical teenager, he’s generally a good kid that loves his family and playing on the school hockey team, but isn’t totally without his faults; he might occasionally skip a trig class to finger-pop that pimply girl with a low self-esteem who’ll do anything for a smidgen of acceptance, he might steal a few of mom’s Xanax to assist in his quest to get whack while chugging 40’s with his peeps, he’s cut in line at the cinema, and rumor has it that he once kicked a puppy.
Įpratę tobulai maskuotis ir slapstytis jie žudo jaunas moteris, norėdami išgauti tam tikrą informaciją (apie ją sužinome tik romanui įsibėgėjant, tai neišdavinėsiu :) )Kai kurios knygos, turinčios daugiau nei veną siužetinę liniją, dažniausiai mane šiek tiek erzina, mat man įdomi ta viena pagrindinė, o kitas tik praversti norisi.
Negaliu pati patikėt, kad tai sakau apie Harlan Coben knygas, bet VISOS siužetinės linijos buvo žiauriai įdomios!
Tikrai, šis detektyvas buvo ne tik , kad aukštos klasės, bet ir beprotiškai įdomus.
Mano galva, tai tikrai stiprus trileris/detektyvas, kurį rekomenduočiau bet kuriam žanro mėgėjui.
Taip, buvo čia tų "šaudau - gaudau" dalykų, bet visi tobulai vietoj ir laiku.
However, we want to have our children grow up feeling they have a right to privacy, so it's a really fine line.In "Hold Tight" Mike and Tia Baye are concerned about Adam, their sixteen-year-old son.
Mike and Tia become increasingly concerned and decide to install a spy program on Adam's computer.
Soon after they come across a message telling Adam to "Stay quiet".Meanwhile Spencer's mom has come across a picture taken the night of Spencer's suicide and it looks as though Adam was actually with Spencer that night.Then Adam goes missing...."Hold Tight" was a good read with some interesting characters.
Hold Tight (Harlen Coben)Psychological/ThrillerAdam Baye has become remote and withdrawn since the suicide of his friend. His parents, Mike & Tia decide to spy on him by installing software on his computer, to monitor every keystroke. One day they read a cryptic email and then Adam disappears. Mike decides to track down his son and the suspense begins.Fast pace page turner, a definite all night read. Sub plots that are filled with suspense blend perfectly up until the dramatic end.
When Mike and Tia learn through an e-mail that Adam is going to attend a party with drinking and drugs, they set out to intercept him and prevent him from going without letting on to the fact that they know, and even more importantly HOW they know.
Coben juggles a lot of characters and plot lines in this novel.
I've not had a child commit suicide, but I could definitely connect with Betsy Hill after this insight:"The house was dead.
Dead as a doornail, whatever the hell that meant.Dead as her son, Spencer." Don't look for a lot of character development in this novel.
Harlan Coben does it again, Hold Tight was him at his BEST!
Hold Tight tells the story of 3 different families who all end up in troubles of their own, and they all end up coming together in the end.
1# Michael and Tia Baye, who's son Adam, who has become very distant and acting strangely different since recently losing a close friend, so they install a spy program on his computer to find out why.
2#Ron and Betsy Hill, who's son Spencer (who was also Adam's friend I'd mentioned above) had committed suicide by drug overdose for unknown reasons.
We've all heard the phrase "Must See TV!", well this is the book equivalent to that phrase!!
As a parent, how far would you go to protect your teenager?
Is there a gray area??
To spy or not to spy?
Is spying an invasion of privacy or a parent's right to know??
We, as parents, want to protect our children but where do we draw the line?
Mike and Tia Baye feel the same way about their 16 year old son, Adam.
They cross the line...or do they??Another wonderfully crafted story by this author.
Twists, turns, suspense.
Page-turning at it's best!
Not my favorite from Coben, but nonetheless a fast paced thriller as are all of his novels.
I figured that since I've got a reading list pretty stacked with horror, fantasy and scifi, I might want to shake things up a bit, add a little variety, and take a look at Harlan Coben.
At varying times throughout the 416 page novel the plot gets put on hold while he delves for a page or two into the life and times of Character X, Y, or Z.
Half of it pertains to the obligatory ending; the other half is just...well...there.Perhaps my scathing criticism is a product of my tastes, but with nearly every mystery I've ever read, the author seems to simply be going through the motions.
He seeks to squelch his itch under the guise of keeping a promise to the former love of his life.The lives of each of these characters will join together like the complicated pieces of a jigsaw puzzle in the exciting climax of Harlan Coben's latest novel.
I love how Coben never fails to keep me on the edge of my seat, and this particular novel made me consider an interesting moral dilemma- what would I do if my child were becoming more and more withdrawn and was spending all his time on the computer?
What happens to his characters, who are usually in thier 30s and 40s leading normal lives and have families, could happen to nearly every one of us.Coben's main plot device is always the disappearance; he has staked out a corner of northern New Jersey where all his novels happen and where we meet similar characters over and over.
There are a series of interrelated plots, all of which come together in a surprising yet logical way, and, just when you think the plot is solved, there is another twist.Great read, great author, great book.Everytime I finish one of Coben's novels, I am profoundly grateful for my workaday life.
Very enjoyable and entertaining from beginning to end. I am a fan of Harlan Cohen and HOLD TIGHT did not disappoint!
But I have to wonder what Coben's personal obsession is with having all the characters in his books marry their first love (aw shucks, how sweet), having these marriages end almost never in divorce but in the untimely death of a partner, having those who cheat duly (and violently) punished for straying, and constantly reminding readers that his couples keep no secrets from each other and, when they do, are likewise punished.
Is Coben doing this to convince his own wife he made the right decision in marrying her, has no secrets, would never think of another woman, and still thinks she's as beautiful as the day he married her?
This was a book that lived up to it's title.
There were multiple stories going on that I just could not see how they were connected.
The characters are so well formed that even in death you could envision their lives, their struggles and pain.
The way Harlan Coben has written the scenes in the book is movie like, not just going from scene to scene or event to event; he describes scenes and events within a scene.
I listened to the audiobook in the car and read the book in the house.
What a good read.
Most of the characters I ended up not really caring about, since there wasn't enough development to them to be believable.
The only character I ended up really caring what happened to her was Reba.The technology in the story is real.
Maybe that was the point, but I don't know.I wonder if he had taken out some of the subplots and characters, if the main story would have flowed better and the plot would have been tighter than it was.
It was engaging enough for me to read it in one sitting without skipping pages, and I found myself wanting to know what was going to happen in the next chapter.
Tia and Mike Baye never imagined they'd become the type of overprotective parents who spy on their kids.
They install a sophisticated spy program on Adam's computer, and within days they are jolted by a message from an unknown correspondent addressed to their son - 'Just stay quiet and all safe.' Meanwhile, browsing through an online memorial for Spencer put together by his classmates, Betsy Hill is struck by a photo that appears to have been taken on the night of her son's death and he wasn't alone.

I am a fan of Harlan Coben's, but this wasn't my favorite of his books.
Yes, the plot had many unexpected twists and turns and kept me guessing up until the end.
But I thought he wove too many stories together, making it hard to follow.
Also, I thought the story line with the daughter was wrapped up a little too neatly at the end.
Coben blends his characters from one book to another, and I was happy to see one of my favorites, Hester Crimstein, make a return appearance.
Hold Tight by Harlan Coben.I've read and enjoyed so many of H.C. books that this one took me by surprise.
I was ready to be caught in the headlights by his terrific writing but that was not meant to be.
This was dark but not in a mysterious horror filled way.
The situation of a teenager committing suicide and its aftermath for surviving members of his family as well as friends was not for me.
Sorry but this mournful story is going back to the library unfinished.
I found the topic overwhelmingly distressing and finding whoever is responsible not an answer to this dilemma.
Adam's close friend Spencer Hill committed suicide using legal sedatives stolen from his parents'medicine cabinet 4 months earlier.
Adam goes missing after Spencer's mother Karen Hill approaches him after school with a photo from a site honoring Spencer that shows that far from being alone the night he died, Spencer was with friends including DJ Huff who is the police chief's bad boy son, and with Adam.
Mike almost gets killed when following the signal from his GPS and almost getting to Adam in a teen club where the selling of prescription drugs goes on.
Really 3 and a half stars. A little too many twists in one book. It was also a bit confusing at times, remembering all the characters and how their lives were intertwined. The story did hold my interest. It wasn't a police procedural, but was more of a look at relationships between parents and children. All of the mysteries in the book seemed to center around that theme. I will be reading more books by this author.
Another fast paced thriller from Coben. Not his best, by he is a great story teller.
Harlan Coben is one of my most read authors. I enjoy his stories for many reasons. He writes great characters and weaves other characters from other books in....he keeps me happy when I read his books. I like that he can create a great plot, and he manages to throw in some subplots. There is always something happening, some new info to glean....I liked this one. So 4 stars.
2.75 stars, review to follow
I wasn’t quite sure where to start, and due to this I went a while without reading any of the books, but in the end I opted to dive into Hold Tight.Hold Tight has guaranteed that I will be diving into those other Harlan Coben books soon – there will not be the gap between my reading that emerged between The Woods and Hold Tight.
Plus, I was excited to see some characters from The Woods in this one – I’m certainly curious to find out if reoccurring characters are a theme in Harlan Coben’s standalone novels, as I would love to see more of the characters.Well worth reading if you’re a fan of easy yet engaging mystery reads.
