https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24820165-see-me
2.5 Stars"Okay".........something's missing here........When I decide to read a Nicholas Sparks novel, I pretty much know and look forward to what I'm going to get, but SEE ME just did not work.
It had a somewhat different flair (which is "Okay") with a stalker on the loose and an unlikely leading man with a dark history and hot temper added to the "mediocre" romantic mix, but..........I'm sorry to say, SEE ME has turned out to be my least favorite NS read.
The love connection lacked real feeling, the characters were ho hum, and the prose tedious and a bit erratic with way too many "Okay's".Overall, an "Okay" read that was definitely missing the "spark".
Nicholas Sparks does it once again. Yet another well written story about love, with a bit of mystery and suspense thrown into the mix. The story was a bit slow going at first, I believe this is his longest novel yet. It almost felt a bit to descriptive to start off, but when I got a little over halfway through I could hardly put it down. It ended up being just as lovely and thrilling as most all of his stories. I'll be shocked if I ever dislike one of his novels.
Unlike most of my reading-blogging-friends, Twilight did NOT start my reading-addiction - it was A Walk to Remember ♥This time....hm....I cried a tiny little bit - I knew where the story was going from pretty much the very first time the bad guy was mentioned - the story was a bit slow, too long, too uneventful in the beginning - BUT ...
it was refreshingly non-sparksy-interesting.I don't know if it was because it's his first published book post-divorce, but I really enjoyed the freshness of it.It wasn't Nicholas-Sparks-Cheesy at all.
He was such a non-Nicholas-Sparks guy.And I looooved his OKAYs!
It's different this time, like his old romances, with the suspense parts.
If you're wondering if Nicholas Sparks still has it after his divorce, he doesn't. This was not what I expected. It was not a love story. It was a stalker, suspense, twist and turn story. With so much detail oh my lord over the top details! Maybe other people will like it but I was so disappointed. I didn't even cry!!!!! I just wanted it to be over. And I skimmed so much.
Disappointed. I am a huge fan of Nicholas Sparks, but this book just didn't live up to the hype. I guessed at almost all of the plot twists before they happened, so there were no real surprises. I know this book was a step into a new genre for him, but I hope he goes back to writing what he does best. If the book had been written by anyone other than Nicholas Sparks, I would have put it down halfway through and not even finished it. Just ... Disappointed ...
The other main character Maria is also 28 and works as a lawyer having a sister Serena always looking out for her.
The thing is, this has happened to her before and they were the result of a case in which a young girl was stalked and murdered.The story itself is just under 500 pages long and does have a lot of backstory so be prepared to hear lots of things about both main characters past as well as their present occupations.
The part of Colin being a MMA fighter also interested me since I hadn't read a story before in which the main character did MMA.
This novel starts off with an unidentified male person wanting vengeance on Maria Sanchez.
The novel turns into a love story, which is no surprise given that the author is Nicholas Sparks.
But who is the person seeking vengeance?I enjoyed this novel and kept wanting to read it at every opportunity.
There is a lot of dialogue in this novel and I enjoyed some of the conversations that ensued.I admit to being a fan of Nicholas Sparks and the rate I read this shows how I enjoyed it, even if I had figured out who was responsible for the stalking of Maria.
Meni je ovo bio savršen spoj prijateljstva, ljubavi, odanosti, humora i misterije. Definitivno nije klasični ljubić.
Kolin iza sebe ima čitavu historiju nasilničkog ponašanja i loših odluka, a sada je odlučio da živi ispravno i izbjegava sve što bi moglo biti pogubno za njegovu budućnost.
Ovaj roman je netipičan za Sparksa - u njemu ne dominira samo ljubav kao što je to slučaj sa njegovim ostalim romanima.
U njemu pronalazimo i elemente trilera, a konačan rasplet čekamo do posljednjih stranica.
Roman zaista drži pažnju, karakterizacija likova je jako dobra, nije površna kao u Kobnom zavoju gdje u nekih 300njak stranica pratimo samo dva lika.
Vrijedilo je pročitati ovih 500+ stranica i mislim da će ekranizacija ovog romana biti najbolja do sada :)
Loved it!
Collin and Maria's first meet wasn’t love at first sight but it was definitely attraction at first sight, altough their relationship progressed very quickly.
Because Maria is a good girl and Collin is a bad boy but they never let their reputation or pasts get into their relationship, I wasn't really a fan of their love story, I'm not saying it was bad but it was nothing near good comparing to his other novels like: The Notebook or The Longest Ride.Great narrative in the vein of his other books, however the pace was a bit slow.
A novel  of second chances, as the past and present collide, with a roller-coaster ride of emotion, suspense, mystery, and thriller .
SEE ME, focuses on a young man named Colin Hancock, who is trying to shed negative influences in his life, and Maria Sanchez, a hardworking lawyer and daughter of Mexican immigrants who has her own dark past.
What I enjoy about his work, is each book delivers a different emotion---some have more mystery, crime, or suspense, than others.
This will be Nicholas's first book published post his divorce (which i was heartbroken about tbh) <\\3We shall see if he has not lost his (magic) touch & can still woo us with his love stories. I quote him something to the effect ,that when he wakes up every morning & looks at Cath (his wife...I mean ex-wife D: ) ,thats the love he writes about. But thats no more right...? :(
The book centers around Maria, a child of Mexican immigrants who became a lawyer and Colin, who has a troubled past and is trying to overcome that and become a school teacher.
I liked that very early on in the novel, you find out both Maria's and Colin's back stories.
But of course, my favorite part of pretty much any Nicholas Sparks novel is reading about the relationship and how it goes from attraction, to eventually love.
Because, like most of his stories, this is first and foremost, a love story.Not my favorite novel by Sparks, but not a bad one by any means.
I've loved everything Nicholas Sparks has ever written...until now.I preordered this book and counted down the days until its release.
No, it was See Me. I read the first chapter and googled the book to make sure it hadn't been written by someone with a similar name.
This book was 77% dialogue and 98% of that was poorly written.
No one, that's who.This is the first Nicholas Sparks novel where I haven't fallen in love along with the characters.
And the thing is, if it had by written by someone else, it's not a terrible book.
It's just lacking everything I love about Nicholas Sparks.
See Me was a bit of light, warm reading for me and one where I wasn’t sure where the storyline was heading next and thinking about what was going to happen to the characters. Though romance novels are hit and miss for me this novel had some murder, romance, mystery, violence and tragedy in a light tone. An enjoyable read with some likeable characters.
Sparks je u ovom novom romanu napravio odličan spoj romanse i trilera, a u prilog tome ide i veći broj stranica nego što je to za njega uobičajeno što je značajno unaprijedilo kvalitet ovog romana u odnosu na ranije.
Vodeći se životnom mudrošću da treba gledati srcem, a ne očima Sparks dokazuje da ništa nije onako kako se zapravo na prvi pogled čini.
Otuda i naslov romana Vidi me, onakvim kakvi smo zapravo u duši, a ne kako izgledamo.
Zaplet romana sa elementima trilera je uzbudljiv, pa iako predvidiv, nestrpljivo vodi ka dramatičnoj završnici.
I hope Nicholas Sparks hated writing this novel as much as I hated reading it.
Then at least I'll have some vindication for how much of a true let down this was.
Not only did I not like the characters and not like the main love story, it pissed me off.
It was such an awful calculated "thriller" where the characters couldn't put the pieces together and made you cringe and yell at the book constantly for just how stupid they were.
Why can't Sparks just stick to what he does best, a genuine honest love story?
This is not your ordinary Nicholas Sparks’s novel. If you think this is another book full of cliched and tragic-romantic love story and threadbare phrases, you’re wrong.Full review to come.
This is a very different Nicholas Sparks book! If you loved The Notebook or The Best of Me, See Me may not be for you. When I began reading See Me, I was disappointed in the story. Nicholas Sparks' new style was interesting but not great for me. The love connection between Colin and Maria lacked real feeling and appeared unlikely. See Me is definitely my least favourite NS read but it kept me engaged until the last chapter. 3 stars
My thought process was that I would buy a book that was kind of long and then listen to it while I worked out; that didn't happen, and the book went unread/un-listened to.
I don't know why I waited so long to read it because yesterday, I could not put it down, and I am still reeling with excitement on how wonderful the book is.This is only my second Nicholas Sparks novel, my first being The Notebook which I read after I saw the movie.
I really loved that it wasn't pure romance because I thought that's what I wanted, but it really wasn't.
Nicholas Sparks is my favorite author but this just may be my least favorite of his. Sadly just didn't connect to the characters, their love story, or just the story in general :/
While I pieced together things, thanks to some carefully placed clues I nonetheless enjoyed both the characters and the twists.A chance encounter has Colin Hancock and Maria Sánchez meeting and thanks to the help of another character, these two meet yet again and begin a friendship that quickly moves to romance.
These two are opposites, and I loved the slow-paced romance.Colin Hancock is not your typical bad boy.
Their connection felt realistic and I appreciated that they found growth from within because of their interaction.Plot twists, action scenes and near death experiences ramped up the tension as the story progressed.
God damn you Nicholas Sparks!See Me WAS SO FREAKING GOOD!
Then it ripped out my heart, stabbed it repeatedly, and then stomped on it a couple of times just for fun.
Seriously, if I never read the last couple of chapters..
GOD DAMMIT NICHOLAS!This book followed Colin, a 28 year old, with a second chance in life training to be a teacher.
Colin meets Maria, who is a 28 year old lawyer, and there relationship/romance was soo good!
yeah shit hits the fan basically.I feel like this book was way too short..
I'm so emotionally tired after this book..
This is a novel that I wanted to keep reading, I did not want it to end.
Here is a point form list of some of my questions:- Will Colin ever propose to Maria?
( I felt like he would succeed working with the law, he had some pretty bad ass skills, he outsmarted the police officers)- How does Maria cope with all that has happened?- Etc.I have to say I loved loved loved reading this novel, Nicholas Sparks really outdid himself with this one.
I do recommend this novel to others and I would read it again in a heartbeat.
I'm embarrassed by how much I enjoyed this. Part mystery, part romance, it was completely enjoyable from start to finish.
Will Maria's life--let alone her budding relationship with Collin--survive the threats of her stalker?To avoid spoilers, I'll now review the highlights of the novel:The Thriller Aspect: Nicholas Sparks is a world-renowned romance novelist, but he's only written a couple other books with thriller aspects (Safe Haven and The Guardian), which are two of my favorites.
I highly encourage Mr. Sparks to continue to experiment with thriller romances!The Characters: At the beginning, I found Collin hard to relate to, but as his past was revealed, I soon came to love his characterization.
Maria is a very relatable protagonist, and I loved her relationship with her sister, Serena.
I 99.9% of the time prefer his books as movies (with the exception of The Longest Ride , which was fantastic).This one had more of a mystery-romance vibe going on, so it veered a little different than most of his other books that I've read.
Honestly, I think i enjoyed the side character of Evan and Lily more than Maria and Colin at times.....And, I never get the 'who-done-it' right, but I guessed this one pretty early on :) Bonus points for me.Spoilers ahead:I would have liked more details of the actual case that causes all this ruckus...instead of Maria's day to day work and pervert boss.
Opinião publicada no Efeito dos LivrosOh tio Nick, tenho reservado a primeira leitura do ano para um dos teus livros e não é que tenho acertado?!Este "No teu olhar" foi uma óptima surpresa e começo a achar preocupante eu querer roubar livros à minha mãe, especialmente de Nicholas Sparks....Mais que um romance e uma história de redenção, "No teu olhar" tem crime, pânico, perseguição e todas aquelas situações que fazem arrepiar os pelinhos do corpo se estivessem a acontecer connosco. Ler mais AQUI
Got this book.Though I have had tons of Sparks' books pile on my shelf,yet I buy it more.
