https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274827.The_Technological_Society
This book is another truly remarkable exposition of the relation between technology and society, along with Mumford's, Pentagon of Power.
The ideology of efficiency which drives technologies becomes incorporated into every aspect of the social structure.This book is much more pessimistic than Pentagon of Power.
These simple-minded arguments ignore the rest of Technique - the social and economic machinery that goes into their creation and production.
I think it should be read by everyone who can understand it!
Nonetheless, I think it is essential reading for our times.
Still, we are developing more methods (from bleach sprays to "we aren't letting people touch her yet").
The reaction to this will not be a reversion to a more "natural" lifestyle, but the addition of various new techniques.
The real catch is that even a so-called reversion to a natural lifestyle, would be made in the form of a technique.
The only deviations from technique I might imagine are spontaneity, creativity and randomness.Reading this book helped me to recognize some of the absurdly urgent reactions we have to the ongoing barrage of "scientific" studies.
Then, a couple years later, we are told that "Baby Einstein" actually retards our kids development.
I have a sympathy for why thinkers believe this-- after all, computers can be scawwy-- but ultimately it reduces human responsibility and acts as a premise for phony solutionism.Furthermore, Ellul's writing is symptomatic of the Marxist-influenced literature of a time when the social-democratic state seemed sound, when those intellectuals comfortably ensconced in the apparatus of a technocratic, postwar society (Adorno, I'm keeping my eye on you too) could criticize it without thinking that their critiques could be used as ammunition by an army of egotistical libertarians and the wealthy conservatives who quietly bankrolled their efforts.
This book blew my mind- I'll never see the world the same way again. I'll never appeal to "efficiency" as if it were a moral end (and error I was absolutely making). Absolutely one of the most important things I have read in my life.
Ellul is one of those thinkers, like Simone Weil or Hannah Arendt, who are in a class to themselves. He defines technology, not by tools and tehniques, but by a set of assumptions governing the choices we make, where utility and the possibility of doing something overrides all other considerations, becomes, in fact, the determinative value of society.
For much of the book Ellul treats his observations with unnerving lack of concern, like a doctor describing the gradual death of his own body.
The whole book is massive effort to transpose a single idea from comprehension to concept.
Ellul's "technolgy" emerges as a golem carved out of fog - undeniably present and then gone, absorbed again into it's own substance.
Laziness and slight of hand are often the roots of ambiguity.
With Ellul (in this book as well as in "Propaganda") it is different.
The ambiguous heart of his books stands somehow as proof of intensity and intention of his investigations.
Ellul is neither a Luddite nor a Jeremiah, and he is reserved in his claims. Neither shrill nor militant in his position, he limits himself to clear-headed comments on the possible ramifications of the proliferation of technology in Western society.
It explicates a broader concept for which the French term is "la technique," which Ellul uses to mean an entire system of rational methods for advancing order and efficiency.
As the Wikipedia summary of his view puts it, "his sociological analysis focuses not on the society of machines as such, but on the society of 'efficient techniques.'" So his examples range from the ordering of information—that is, propaganda—in the Nazi regime to the mass production of bread.
(Only yesterday I discovered, thanks to Zoltan Istvan, a 2011 interview with Zerzan on the subject of Steve Jobs and the social effects of technology.)
Ellul wrote this book over half a century ago, talking about how technique is taking over our society.
Instead, as Ellul defines it right at the beginning, it is the "totality of methods rationally arrived at and having absolute efficiency." Maybe I'm a bit thick, but I found it a difficult concept to get my mind around, but as I read I just kept thinking of "methods" and "efficiency".
Maybe this is still technique, it is technique's way of coopting even what appears natural for the kids still go to the "art" school and the farmers market may appear natural but how natural is it, let alone accessible to most people?
Ellul is a prophet and like a prophet, he never really "fit in" in a conventional sense in his time and place.
And like the best prophets, he is often better at diagnosing than treating.
Still, there is no book in my mind that I would have my students read before this one in order to better understand what is happening to them without their permission.
A must read for anyone who wants to know how the world of today operates and fancies themselves as even minimally well informed.
Orwell said it in the 1940s- Ellul elaborated on it in the 1960s- but no one listened. Now we are all enslaved and think we are free. Time to take the red pill.

Ultimately his idea is of the "machine" be it a State, Corporate/Industrial, Military or Political Engine eventually envelops and determines our human state.
Certainly a large group of people reacting to Technique - but again to Ellul this is just another means of Technique, just adjusted to please people and lull them into a false sense.Additionally, and somewhat more difficult to work with, is his belief that our whole being has been so subversed that we are no longer aware (he does offer interesting observations about entertainment) and worse even if so that any resistance to systems is futile (yet another modern technological reference: the Borg).
Similar in tone to Mumford's pessimistic "Pentagon of Power" phase. Very dated in my opinion, relevant mainly to the centralizing and totalizing effects of mid-20th century mass-production technology. I recommend reading this with an off-setting dose of Antonio Negri and Yochai Benkler.
Excellent! A 'Must Read' esp. by Christians in our day but all would benefit and find themselves put out but agreeing with a lot of what he has to say. It's been many years since I've read much Ellul but I love his writing.
A very important book. Jaques Ellul was one of the greatest thinkers of our time....a very wise man.
A masterpiece.
He claims that analyses which characterise society in terms of the influence of technoloy are partially right, but in his view technique goes beyond just mechanical automation, and includes things like techniques for social organisation, economic techniques, techniques for manipulating humanity (propaganda), even magic is considered to be a technique, and one of the oldest: the use of ritual to achieve some mystic end fits comfortably into his definition above.Ellul contends that "technique" as it exists in contemporary society is quite different from the role technique played in earlier civilisation.
One of the important books fo the mid-20th century.
First things first, I am impressed with the forward thinking Ellul expresses considering the book was produced in 1964.
What century the reader is reading the book in.
Technology had a vastly different meaning in the mid 20th century.
Fast forward to the 21st century and we find ourselves in a place where society is unable to function without technology.
We are 100% codependent on technology and its advancements so-much-so if not for it I would not be on Good Reads right now via an IPhone submitting this commentary.
I bet the reviews on this book 10 years from now will take on a vastly different point of view.
one of the most challenging books i've ever read.
ellul insists that we acknowledge the actual state of affairs rather than trying to proceed on an artificial basis developed in a pre-technical past which cannot possibly take account of modern society as it has been transformed and adapted to the machine, which he theorizes as including techniques of organization, psychology, etc.i hope in the years to come to convince many people to read this book, if only to reassure myself that i'm not crazy to think it's one of the most profound, and profoundly neglected works of the 20th century.
This is a difficult book to put it mildly.
It's long, the print is minuscule, & the translation from the original French to English is not terribly smooth.
The original French version came out in 1954.
The main challenge of engineering was to fit humankind to the requirements of the technological society - just another cog in the machine ultimately to be surperceded, rendered redundant, & discarded.
His concept of "technique" is broad, amorphous & somewhat hard to grasp.
He is inclined towards broad, sweeping, philosophical generalization & these represent the hopes that he may be wrong.
This book is a challenge but one with great rewards.
Example after example is given of how inexorable is technology's advancement, in that each step necessitates a further logical step, each being consistent with the principle of efficient methodology.Yes, it was written in 1964, but it was prescient, as the past 50 some years have proved the accuracy of the book's thesis: that 'it', as methodology, has no moral dimension, yet, at the same time, has assumed dominance in/over our lives.
Ellul's stance is that, given the spread of the technological and our apparent 'devotion' to it, we must strive hard to be always responsibly aware of the full range of daily choices before us.
Read a couple of sections of The Technological Society while preparing for my honours dissertation years ago. I was rather surprised Ellul did not reference Heidegger as their ideas complement one another in many ways, but now that I've finally completed the book, I have to say Ellul's analysis is by far, more readable and fastidious than Heidegger's shorter critique in  The Question Concerning Technology. Some of the examples used by Ellul are slightly outdated, but they do not detract from his carefully elaborated insights, which have become an even more accurate diagnosis of our current technological environment.
dense, accurate.
I felt that he failed to see that, while it is true that Capitalism does reject and thwart certain techniques that are perfectly valid and even beneficial to humanity, it seemed like he was disregarding the fact that strategic engineers are in positions to organize the Capitalist society and its ultimate end (to maximize Capital) and they do so with technique, and it is the ruthless goal of monopoly and profit (in other words domination) to which the development of technique is oriented.A deeper issue effecting Ellul's analysis, is the way that he severs technique from nature in many ways.
His description of time, for example, in how it suppresses “genuine human communities” would apply less so to a Muslim context, especially as time, as Muslims reckon it, is determined not by the tempus mortuum - the clicking of the mechanical clock as he puts it - but rather by natural phenomenon: the position of the sun to determine the time for the five-times daily canonical prayers and even the phases of the moon for deciding when fasting will begin in the month of Ramada.All in all, I think Ellul’s, The Technological Society, to be an engaging and worthwhile read.
As I read his book I kept thinking that Michel Foucault's Discipline and Punish seemed well-tuned to Ellul's claim that modern society was really just one giant concentration camp where the main concern was not just the surveillance of the citizenry, but surveillance with an eye towards producing ever more efficient technique.
As other reviews have already mentioned, Ellul personifies technique and sometimes this just comes across as perhaps too spiritual, but he's also a theologian/Christian and so this didn't really bother me so much.
Anyway, the book's argument is certainly penetrating and clear (take a lesson, Foucault!), but some of the chapters on economic models just put me to sleep and so I skipped them.
With great care, the author takes you through a detailed explanation of technology's manifestation, and how it goes on to transform the world we live in.
There are different thoughts on how technology can be controlled, but in the end, Ellul feels there is no stopping it.
I would also advise that this book be read several times.
One reading can only serve to introduce readers to the basic concepts and multitude of supporting authors that Ellul uses to both compare and contrast his ideas against.
Professor Ellul describes technique as the efficient ordering of everything.
The book's a slog, but things the professor describes like police surveillance and large prison populations are similar to what we see today.
Described in a book published in 1964!
As someone interested in politics and government, I liked the discussion of "political technicians," people who are concerned chiefly with proper function and efficiency of government over ideology.
(Of course, the professor believes the only ideology of government IS technique.) These are your administrators and experts, usually unelected and can serve indefinitely.
I would welcome a condensed, more accessible version of this book by a student of Ellul.
