https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460548.Go_Dog_Go_
I know this is a classic and all, but I had a hard time making it through this book.
These are big questions, and they need to be asked.
That said, you can have a book that contains big ideas AND an interesting story too.
Ultimately, when reading a book like this, the question you have to ask yourself is "Would I buy the sequel?" And I have to say, with some regret, that I wouldn't.
* * *Seriously though, I had a great time reading this book with my little boy.
They will sleep all night." is clearly an *obvious* metaphor for female hegemony towards the oppressive male dominated society of the early Mad Men era 1960's in which this book takes place.
In other portions of the book it explores how the effects of how economic success and failure in the brewing industry plays out among moderate Democratic congressmen, for example "The blue dog is in.
explores how runaway consumerism, and out-of-control automobile industry have set American society on a one way path to self annihilation.
Fantastic illustrations. Good for teaching children about numbers and colors. Hilariously humorous at few points.Do you like my hat?I do not!

has become her favorite choice for this assignment.The great thing about this one is the repetitive use of sight words that every kid needs to be able to quickly recognize.For that reason alone, this thing is worth its weight in gold for beginning readers.Then, of course, it has wacky dogs doing wacky dog things.Can't go wrong with that, can you?Not if you're a kid!My favorite part of the book is the Two Dogs and the Hat stuff.No, it's not exactly comedy gold, but my daughter always does this funny little high-pitched voice for the girl dog, and a low (which still sounds squeaky coming from her) manly voice for the boy dog.It's adorable.Then again, I'm probably just biased.
Neo literally sped through this book, leaving no word unpronounced or page unturned. Dogs are all over zooming around town in cars, sometimes obeying traffic laws, but also hard-pressed to listen. They congregate together in parks and on the outskirts of town, reds with blacks, greens, and blues. There is no rhyme or reason, but there sure are dogs. Neo loved this one, even after he told me that he’s read this book at school many times, so he knew all the words. Still, it was a fast-paced story for us both to enjoy!
A fantastic colorful book filled with wonderful illustrations and little sub-stories.It stimulates a child's imagination while teaching him numbers, colours and social skills.How about the child is counting the dogs in the bed and the ones underneath the bed.Or seeing all the things the dogs are doing in their treetop party-the big dogs, little dogs, yellow,red, blue, pink and green dogs.This will be great fun for any child aged 4-8 , and will not only be educational , but it is somethingshe will remember for the rest of her life.
When I first met Erika, for some long forgotten reason and situation, someone said, "Do you like my hat?"I answered: "No. I do not." There was an awkward pause and I added, "Good-bye.
It became a fun inside joke for Erika and me, but for the life of us, we couldn't remember where it came from.
Then we had babes, and I picked up a bunch of board books -- and there it was."Hello!""Hello!""Do you like my hat?""I do not.""Good-by.""Good-by."It wasn't quite how I remembered it, not quite the way my mind had twisted it over all those years, but we had finally found the source, and we were stoked.

The following lines from the book made it too cute."Do you like my hat?""I do not."
what a read - what a book. i'll try and finish it up this year.
A great book for children to learn about their world on a bit wider scope, with opposite and colours that are not presented in the usual way. With plenty of colourful illustrations for the younger children to enjoy.
A classic!--Do you like my hat?--No, I do not.--Good-bye again.--Good-bye!....--And now, do you like my hat?[do not want to have to put a spoiler alert! so I'll stop now]
My daughter is loving this. Published in the 60's and one of the best I've found!
This book uses simple repetition and clear pictures to teach kids about prepositions (under, over, in, on, etc), sizes, and a few other basic concepts.
The pictures are funny and have lots of details to talk about with little ones beyond the words on the page.
I took this book on a 2-week vacation with my 5-year old and read it almost every night, picking a different page to describe more fully each night.
It's also a much longer book than a lot of other picture books designed for kids.
:) Those books are quality stuff that every child should read.
i learned what opposites were. i learned that dogs have enormous parties atop trees. i learned that it is "hot out here in the sun" and that it is "not hot here under the house." and most of all, i loved that two page spread of all the dogs in the bed, and that one is lying there with those wide eyes! yeah, i like that dog.
This was one of my favorites as a girl, and became a favorite again as I raised two daughters. Fun story, easy vocabulary for little ones, great illustrations, opposites, colors, fast cars, swimming, sleeping, hats and of course (view spoiler)[a dog party in a tree (hide spoiler)]!
Published in 1961, still awesome. Dogs driving cars in scarves and goggles!
A fun children's book, but I just wish that it had been a little bit longer.
My 5 1/2 year old grandson wanted to try reading this book today on his own. The pictures are very supportive and he really enjoyed being able to read most of it on his own. This is a great read aloud book for younger children as they enjoy the crazy antics of all the dogs.
I like to find the picture with a fishy in it so I can show mom the fishy sound I can make.
And is this the same dog who is asleep when it is time for the dogs to get up?
And finally, "Do you like my hat?" I randomly ask my kids that question intermittently and they always know exactly how to answer.By the way, anybody notice that the dog steals the feather out of the female dogs hat at one point?
First she has the feather in her hat, then he seems to have snatched it.The Dog party at the end is like an opium dream.
This must be the true dog heaven.
All I can remember is that if I pretended that I could not read well then I would be with the kids whose nap-time involved back rubs.
If I could read well then I was allowed into the room with all of the books (including this one, which I more or less wanted to read every day), but nap-time was governed by some awful person who did not rub backs.
I was forced to choose between pretending to be dull but receiving back rubs and giving up back rubs but being allowed to read GDG every day).
Wait...this book isn't by Dr. Seuss:Upon reading it, it became painfully obvious that this was no Dr. Seuss book. Being deceived like that makes me wonder if I'll read another book...
Fun book to read to children. Alas, I read to dogs who didn't even care for the pictures! Haha.
I have no idea why kids like this book. I guess it would be better if I were 5 and someone were animatedly reading it to me. Not much of a plot. Nice colors.
Go Dog Go kicked ass.
It was the sole trophy of social hierarchy in our kindergarten class.
When it was book time, everybody rushed the shelves and the dominant alpha males immediately trampled the girls and other weaklings to instinctively fight (at times, nearly to the death) over GDG.
Whomever lay claim to the "conch" held rule over class for the remainder of the day, only to repeat this same process day after day.
Eventually the wheat was separated from the chaff, a king was established and GDG was his queen.
It's about dogs.
Point being, kids need GDG.
I read it to my son (three years old) this past week and it's all that he talks about come bedtime.
Seuss-esque all the way.2) the "Do you like my hat" subplot (and brilliant resolution) - a hook my son talks about during the day, in fact.
It has my son now wanting to read longer and turn pages.5) questions - the narrative has the reader ask questions and think about what might be happening to carry the plot forward...
This book was one of my favorites as a kid.
The dog party at the tree was a personal favorite of mine, as the details were intricate enough to occupy me for a very long time.
What is the book about?
Dogs in cars.
The central narrative force is a poodle trying to find a hat that the hound dog will like."Do you like my hat?""I do not.""Good-by.""Good-by."Riveting.Reading the book now I don't entirely understand what it was about the book I loved so much as a kid, aside from the sheer motion inherent in the illustrations.
Dogs and cars.Ironically I still love both of those things now.
My Dad read so many books to me, but this is one of the few that I remember.
I still remember puzzling about what was so much better about the girl dog's hat at the end?
The illustrations of the dogs sleeping were very thought-provoking to me as well.
Was it sleeping with its eyes open, or staying awake all night?
Why did it say,"they will sleep all night", when obviously at least one of them was awake.
Were the ones under the bed really asleep?I remember always wanting to be IN the cars myself.
