https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179504.The_ABC_of_Relativity
همون طور که کانت ستایندۀ نیوتن بود و فلسفه ش رو بر اساس نیوتن بنا کرده بود، راسل هم آینشتاین رو ستایش می کرد و سعی می کرد از نظریات علمی آینشتاین در فلسفه استفاده کنه (هر چند خود راسل در فصل آخر به صراحت خلاف این حرف مترجم رو می زنه، و می گه نباید تصور کرد که نظریۀ نسبیت آینشتاین می تونه برای نظریات فلسفی ثمره ای داشته باشه.)به هر حال، راسل در روان نویسی زبانزده.
Itu mengindikasikan betapa penting dan berpengaruhnya persamaan yang sederhana itu.Seharusnya kita tidak perlu terkejut mengapa Einstein bisa sebegitu fenomenal karena jawabanya sangat singkat, Relativitas!Yah, teori ini (ada dua teori, relativitas khusus dan relativitas umum), tak ayal telah melambungkan nama Einstein jauh melampaui prestasi-prestasi puncak yang pernah ditorehkan manusia lainnya sepanjang sejarah.
Teori ini berimplikasi dan merembet pada hal-hal lain yang belum pernah dibayangkan sebelumnya, mulai dari teknologi televisi, sinar laser, bom atom, sejarah alam semesta, lubang hitam, pintu-waktu-kemana-saja-kapan-saja, hingga pertaruhan akan keberadaan Tuhan (baca:konsep Ketuhanan)--itu sebabnya, mengapa-mengapa sebagaimana yang diuraikan di atas harus disematkan pada Einstein--Teori Relativitas (terutama teori relativitas umum), merupakan teori rumit yang memerlukan kemampuan analitis matematika tingkat tinggi (jangan harap teori ini diajarkan di tingkat-tingkat awal kuliah), dengan konsep yang sedikit bias karena "banyak hal yang tidak masuk akal".
هذا الكتاب أجمل وأبدع ماقرأت في تبسيط النظرية النسبية (الخاصة والعامة) لأينشتين, قرأت من قبل فى تبسيط النظرية لمصطفي مشرفة "مختارات من العلم" ولمصطفي محمود " أينشتين والنسبية" وكذلك لإيزاك عظيموف كاتب الخيال العلمي , ولكن بساطة ووضوح أسلوب برتراند راسل تفوقت عليهم جميعاً وعزز ذلك إهتمامه المكثف بالأمثلة والايضاحات الهامشية.
الكتاب يكاد يستحق الدرجة الكاملة فى التقييم ولكن يعيبه فقط ترجمة الكثير من المصطلحات الرياضية والفيزيائية بشكل يجبرك على إعادة القراءة أكثر من مرة كي تصل للإيستعاب الكامل.
وهذا غير راجع لضعف الترجمة -على العكس تماماً الترجمة كانت على نفس مستوي جودة الكتاب- ولكن لصعوبة وتعقيد المحتوي العلمي.أتطلع بشدة لقراءة النسخة الإنجليزية.
Relativity makes perfect sense when I read about it, but I cannot explain it to anyone once I close the book. Perhaps I do not REALLY get relativity after all, but I certainly thought I did while working my way through this book. It is clear, concise, and readable. It probably is not Lord Russell’s fault that my clarity closed as I turned the last page.
لا شك أن تخصصه في الرياضيات ساعده بشكل كبير على فهم النظرية النسبية بشقيها الخاص والعام ومهارته في الكتابة سمحت له بتلخيصها في أسلوب دقيق وسهل الفهم في آن لدرجة أن كتابه هذا أسهل بكثير من كتاب آينشتاين نفسه حول النظريةأعجبتني دقة راسل، فهو يميز بين النسبية في الفيزياء التي تعنى بها هذه النظرية وبين النسبية النفسية والفسيولوجية وهو التباس قد يقع فيه الكثيرون.
يستخدم الكاتب الكثير من الأمثلة لتسهيل فهم النظرية وإيصال المعنى دون تعقيد ولكنه دقيق جدًا في نفس الوقت.
That being said, BR is a terrific writer and being confused by his wit and writing is preferable to being confused by almost anyone else.Thoughts I think MIGHT be true from the book:- all things in the universe are in motion relative to everything else, there's no proper point of reference- conventional physics and Euclidean geometry fails when things are in motion, which everything is all the time- speed of light never changes, even when it emanates from something in motion- at speeds close to the speed light, time + mass warp- if event E on earth happens after light travels from event A on a distant star to earth, A definitely happens before E, and vice versa.
مبدأيا يجب أن يكون هذا آخر كتاب علمي أقرأه باللغة العربية حان الوقت للنضج و ال 4 نجوم ليست لسهولة ال
In explaining relativistic Physics, Bertrand Russell launched a formidable attack on our instinctive knowledge of Physics that have been nourished by our school and high school curriculumn, and when the dust had settled, it was he who stood the victor. I can't say I have understood each and every line of the book, but I can vouch that my conception of Physics has changed.
This should go on the shelf, books stolen from my father. This was a pivotal book when I read it at the age of 13 or 14. I should read it again, I might have missed something the first time.
I understand relativity only vaguely more so than before I read this. I don't know whether that's due to my own inability to comprehend it (most likely), Russell's explanations, or relativity itself (also likely).
içerik kesinlikle çok zengin ve isminin hakkı verilmiş. sadece abc ile anlatılmış rölativite. yalnız çeviri başarısız. çevirmenin bilim adamı olmaması bunda önemli etken olmuş sanırım ama okunması gereken bir kitapmış. tavsiye ederim.
Written with the typical clarity and wit of Russell. Only reason its not 5 is that i still dont understand relativity. I may be hopeless
Buat yang nyerah baca tulisan Einstein atau Leonard Engel yang jelimet, cobalah baca versi Bertrand Russel ini.Buku terbaik bagi yang ingin memahami teori relativitas umum dan khusus Einstein. Ditulis dengan penjelasan yang runut dan sederhana, tanpa mengikis esensi dari teori itu sendiri
يقول راسل أننا نعرف القليل جداً، ومع ذلك فمن الغريب أن هذا القليل جداً كثير، وأغرب من ذلك أن هذه المعرفة القليلة جداً يمكن أن تعطينا كل هذه القوة..كان كتاب رائعاً بعيداً عن التعقيدات الميتافيزيقية الذى يتسم دوما بها راسل
Taking the stance of an epistemic structural realist, Bertrand Russell lucidly expounds the theory of relativity and its philosophical consequences in a way intelligible to a layperson.Many science popular books have been written about Einstein's relativity theory. Yet only a few would have a philosophical interpretation as mature and incisive as that of Russell presented in "The ABC of Relativity"
Available for free: http://www.ubu.com/sound/russell.html Courtesy of the gorgeous UbuWeb.
Plus this is actually my first audiobook: usually I prefer audioshortstories!Passion, studies and eventually work have always led to my reading mostly fiction.
In the Einstenian world there is more individualism and less governement than in the Newtonian.
Owning (the Italian translation of) the complete and updated edition, my take on this point is "so much the better": the additions do not add much really and, if anything, they lessen the beauty and power of Russell's spare, clear prose.
This gem is recommended to all lovers of science and audiobooks alike!
My first attempt to understand Einstein's concept of relativity.
Though it was a very interesting read, it made me believe the Theory of Relativity is simply much too difficult a subject for me to comprehend.
'Relativity Free of Folklore' and realized I was not beyond hope, that all I needed was to be taught how to think and interpret physics notions and concepts properly.P.S.I've just found an English copy of this book (electronic version) and browsed it.
Maybe because I went through it too quickly when I had come to the conclusion it wouldn't make me really understand Relativity Theory.I should re-read this book in the light of what I've learnt reading 'Relativity free of Folkore'.
Read it, get confused around the middle, be glad you have read it once you have finished. This is a short, extremely helpful, introduction to Einstein's Relativity Theory. It's about spacetime you knew something about it!
A classic! I read it years back. I enjoyed every page of it, every word of it. It's nice to learn relativity from a philosopher than a physicist. It got me interested in the philosophy of Physics. Very well written like other Russell's books.
If ever you wanted to know about the consequences of Einstein's special and general theories of relativity (things like time dilation and curved space-time) without seeing a single mathematical equation, this book is for you.
ABC of relativity is as complex as #$! of relativity. Though the author has tried to explain relativity through multiple examples, please dont expect any eureka moment in understanding relativity.
Bertrand Russell is a giant amongst thnkers
Gave up on it after 39 pages. I just found it too confusing and the examples were unrelatable. The book smelled nice though because it was old and musty :)
با کتاب صوتی و پی دی اف زبان اصلی شروع به خواندن کردم.سعی می کنم از هر بخش خلاصه ای موثر تهیه کنم.
I didn't quite get one of his train analogies but I do plan to reread that material.Equally important, he provides nice discussion on the idea of what Time Space is.Also, because it is General Relativity, he does talk about objects traveling on geodesic paths and non-euclidean coordinate systems.The book is only about General Relativity and only minimally touches on quantum theory.Definitely a nice companion or supplemental reader to other readings on Relativity, including Dr. Hawking's books.Finally, I really do need to give credit to Newtonian Physics.
Sure, maybe it isn't accurate over long distance and euclidean space doesn't work over long distances.
Albert Einstein ismini duyunca aklımıza gelen ilk imgeler "dahi, genel görelilik, dünyayı değiştiren adam, bilimin büyük insanı, modern fiziğin kurucusu" oluyor.
Kendisi daha çok "Dünya'nın en zeki insanı" etiketiyle medyada anılmış ve hala anılmakta.
Zekasına dair onlarca hikaye, yüzlerce dedikodu duyabiliyoruz.Peki, Einstein ne yapmış da dünyaca ünlü, herkesin tartışılmaz bir efsane olarak kabul ettiği bir figüre dönüşmüş.
Bu kitapta Sayın Russell Einstein'ın hangi fikirleri ürettiğini, bunların açıklamasını, destekleyen kanıtları ve bunların insan ırkının dünya görüşüne yaptığı devrimsel etkileri birer birer açıklıyor.
Kitapta Russell'ın yaptığı açıklamalar Einstein'ın teorilerine dair bir anlayış kazanımını sağlamakla kalmıyor, dünyaya bakarken farkında olmadığınız pek çok farklı alandan ayrıntıyı ve farkındalığı da okura kazandırıyor.
Russel, anlatmak istediğini desteklemek için bazı bölümlerde matematiğe başvurmuş.
Her ne kadar matematiği çoğu matematik bilmeyen insan için anlaması güç olsa da kitap genel haliyle anlaşılır bir dille yazılmış.
Say Yayınları'ndan çıkan baskısında da yazıldığı gibi Russel aslında bu kitabı tamamiyle "....'nın ABC'si" kitapları çok satılıyor diye maddi gelir etme amacıyla yazıyor fakat bana göre ortaya çıkan şey "şunun bunun ABC'si" kitabından daha fazlası.Bilim ilerliyor, dünya değişiyor.
Bilim, insanların düşüncelerini de şekillendiriyor.
Newton'dan Rölativiteye kadar geçen süreçte insanlar Newton fiziğine uyum sağlama uğraşı içinde, yaşamlarını Newton'ın yasalarına adapte edip şekillendiriyorlardı.
Bu nedenle Rölativitenin kavranması gelecekte olası durumların anlaşılması için gerekli görünüyor."Ama fizik!", "amaan görelilik ne imiş" falan deme.
I only knew Bertrand Russell as a great philosopher and writer; consequently, I was quite surprised to find that he wrote a book on explaining Einstein's special and general relativity for the public.
I decided to read this book despite I've read many before regarding this topic.
I still learn something new every time I read physics books no matter how many times I've come across the topic.
What caught my attention for this book is the philosophical perspective of the writer towards science.
Being humble and open to change and criticism is what I love about science.
This is the fourth book I have read about Einstein's Theory of Relativity and it was the clearest explanation yet. I still don't fully understand it but I feel that Russell's explanations and examples got me closer than I had been before.His writing style is clear, enjoyable, and full of side comments and personal quips that make a very "heavy" read much more enjoyable.If you are interested in E=MC2, this is a great book to start your exploration.
3.5 starsQuite an interesting introduction to Relativity even if not very simple. Russell's writing is clear and compelling but I have to admit some of his examples aren't as effective and enlightening as I had hoped. Like some reviewers said there isn't really an eureka moment in the book where the relativity theories appear crystal clear. I still learned a few very interesting facts though and I recommend this book to anyone interested in the subject.
