https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253801.Science_and_the_Modern_World
The clearest example I know is Fred Hoyle, who for a few years was considered one of the world's great scientists; during the 1950s, I understand that his name, at least in his native Britain, was synonymous with unconventional brilliance.
In case you're in any doubt, he inserts little Greek and Latin phrases every now and then with a disarming naturalness.Until I was halfway through, I was scratching my head and wondering why the book wasn't better known; but it then becomes brutally apparent that all is not well.
Weyl, in particular, was philosophically sophisticated: his Philosophy of Mathematics and Natural Science is in some ways the book this one would like to be.I don't want to scare you off.

Many, many times I had to re-read passages and turn back-and-forth between pages so as to interpret Whitehead's ideas.
Still, I closed each chapter feeling like my mind had been stretched into new territories teeming with vital, restless ideas.I have folded the corners of dozens of pages in this book, so as to return to them and again piece together Whitehead's ideas.
There's a lot here to digest, and I have an unshakeable feeling that I need to keep this book close and to keep exploring its pages to see what lights I may find within.
The most exciting work of intellectual history I've read in a long time, but it took me years to be prepared for it. Read it in concert with Process and Reality: the two books illuminate and interfuse with each other.
The book conceptualizes the way of thinking that led to and supported the development of modern science.
By no means is the book anti-science; it is instead asking us to see a bigger reality beyond science but that includes science.
Such abstractions substitute for experience instead of enriching it.
The error of substituting abstraction for empirical reality affects not only how we see ourselves in relation to the world around us, but also our social, political, economic and culture milieu.So I recommend this book, for if you put forth the effort to understand it, it may enrich your life.
I realize that the ideas in this book are extremely important.
But Whitehead's obscure writing makes me want to stop reading philosophy forever.
I was a philosophy major in college, but maybe I've changed over the years.
When I now encounter page after page of obscure metaphysics, I think about the meaning of life in terms of why anyone would want to spend significant portions of their life thinking and reading about such things.
There are many instances in which I can read a two-page spread in this book and have only the vaguest notion of what the hell Whitehead is actually talking about.
The last chapter is exceptional. It was worth plowing through the first 12 chapters, just to glimpse Whiteheads vision in chapter 13. Aims of education, associations, the dangers of the Gospels of Force and Uniformity, potential fallacies of Adam Smith and the Professional man, physical wandering, spiritual adventures, passionate feeling, aesthetic experience are all addressed. "Wisdom is the fruit of a balanced life". I'm not completely satisfied with his ideas of adaption. I'm a fan of considering tried and time tested cultural habits that are good and proper.
We are somewhere in the 1920's, Whitehead starts assuming that we did our homework; meaning that we know a great deal about Bacon, Harvey, Kepler, Galileo, Descartes, Pascal, Huygens, Boyle, Newton, Locke, Spinoza and Leibniz. My homework wasn't finished, but I kept going anyway. Then he goes about knitting together the evolution of science through the 18th and 19th centuries. He lost me a bit in two chapters, but finished strong with a sober view of social progress.
Just as relevant and interesting today as it was when first published in 1925. A must for all students of historiography, theology, or philosphy! Accessible, clear and articulate! Loved it! Again!
Alfred North Whitehead argues against the atomic materialism that gave rise to Newtonian physics, in favor of a philosophy of organism which he thinks is more compatible with evolution and quantum physics.
But this has been a general theme of philosophy for centuries.I find Whitehead most appealing in his conception of God as the creative force in the universe, embodying both evolution and human creativity as part of an organic creation of value.
Charles Hartshorne builds on Whitehead's concept to argue against a static, perfectionist conception of God, in favor of a constantly changing God, coincident with the universe, including human creativity, which grows and endlessly surpasses itself.
Whether or not one agrees with his conclusions they are necessary reading for understanding the history of scientific developement and the relationships between science and philosophy, and between science and religion.
Whitehead proclaims the death of strict materialistic philosophy of nature as a foundation for science and gives what he calls an organic theory as a possible replacement.
S. Lewis who wrote a critique of Materialism about 20 - 30 years after Whitehead presented these lectures, and the critiques of the well-known philosopher Alvin Plantinga.
This book is well worth the time it takes to read it, and to understand the concepts that Whitehead advances.
This type of insight is the basis for Whitehead's "prehensive" theory of mind where material reality is intertwined in space and time even if it is not "contemporaneous." In this way, Whitehead points his theory in the direction of universal wholeness and the lack of an organic theory of the whole is, he believes, the chief defect of 18th century science.Whitehead then draws certain conclusions from the world of science and quantum theory in particular.
With adaptation and survval as the criteria for evolutionary success, it's not clear why Whitehead would make such a statement about these animals other than "force" is at odds with his theory.
Absolutely brilliant. This book challenges one's thoughts and tears one away from the simple status quo. I need to re-read some of it as it needs a lot of concentration and each time I lay it down for too long I need to refresh my reading. I believe all scientists today should read this since they are showing signs of departing from a true sense of the scientific method, thereby adopting positions as fact which are truly incapable of absolute proof.
This the book I was reading when I made the decision to study history of science. I shared that fact with Owen Gingerich, the distinguished historian of astronomy, when he interviewed me at the time of the switch in majors, and he mentioned that it had been a formative influence on him as well.
I think the argument of the text if fascinating--he investigates the presuppositions that underlie science. (For instance, in order to have science, one must first suppose there is order in the universe.) I just need to find some uninterrupted time to focus on it.
Interesting book. I liked the chapters "Religion and Science" and "Requisites for Social Progress". Whitehead provides an incisive critique of philosophical and scientific materialism. I wasn't a fan of the middle chapters of the book, where I believe his message lost some of its clarity.
to difficult
My undergraduate degree in philosophy focused on Whitehead. This was prior to my own conversion. While I now am quite critical of Whitehead, I acknowledge him as an import modern thinker.
Dense and abstract. A history of philosophy and its relation with science, while developing a new philosophy of nature.
