https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228331.Getting_Past_No
Nothing new or shocking here, but I was pleasantly surprised to learn that I do many of these things when faced with a difficult situation.
Ury also outlines the ways negotiations fall apart, which was helpful by highlighting to me that I'm likely to give in too easily, or look for an alternative to building what he calls "the golden bridge."I think the most important lesson I learned from this book is in understanding the other person's perspective.
You may see the benefits of doing something a certain way, but perhaps those benefits aren't what the other party is looking for.

Consider the four most common ones: not their idea, unmet interests, fear if loosing face, too much too fast.""You have to jettison three common assumptions: that the other side is irrational and cant be satisfied; that all they basically want is money; and that you can't meet their needs without undermining yours.""Building a golden bridge involves much more than making the other side an attractive proposal.
You need to suspend your reaction when you feel like striking back, to listen when you feel like talking back, to ask questions when you feel like telling your opponent the answers, to bridge your differences when you feel like pushing for your way, and to educate when you feel like escalating.""1.
This book is way better than the first in the series Getting to Yes. I like Ury's prose and his advices are concrete and helpful, it's no wonder this book is considered a negotiation primer. Key takeaway:• Obstacles to cooperative negotiation: o your (emotional) reaction – don’t strike back, don’t give in, don’t break off – to fight this it’s important to recognize the OP’s tactic (stone wall, attack, trick go around, deflect, expose), know your hot buttons, and take time to reflecto their emoti
What makes that fair?) questions in order to clarify their interest, test their opinions and attemot ti dusciver their standards of fairness; ask them for what would they do if they were in your position and how they think the issue should be handled; o	their dissatisfaction – remove common obstacles, don’t dismiss them as irrational, spend time trying to understand their nned and their reasoning, consider the needs for recognition/identity/security, ensure that the proposal is consistent with their principles and valueso	their power – help them see that agreement is in their best interest (compare BATNAs, let OP know the consequeces “What do you think will happen if we don’t agree?”/”What do you think I will do?”/”What will you do?”•	Identify your Best Alternative To a Negotiated Agreement then use that as leverage.•	After asking a question that recived an incomplete or unclear answer, or after presenting an option, be quiet.
despite most of what is being said in this book kinda feeling obvious, just reading it and organizing ones thoughts is extremely helpful.
in fact, just today (i finished this book on the train home today) i used techniques described in here (possibly unknowingly) to get 3 adversely positioned colleagues to change their stance on the issue in question by 180°.
definitely a five star read, and even if it may be out of sequence and possibly more of the same, i started "getting to yes" today.
His experience lies not only within the confines of teaching but has been involved in a number of roles as an advisor, negotiator ranging from corporate mergers to wildcat strikes in a Kentucky coal mine to ethnic wars in the Middle East, the Balkans, and the former Soviet Union.In his book "Getting Past No: Negotiating in Difficult Situations", William writes about how to negotiate with a customer/client/person who is unwilling to budge from his stance and proving difficult to negotiate with.
Make it easy to say yes: Build a golden bridgeTry to understand how the client is benefited by your offer/product and work towards it.My most favorite line in this book is "Help write your opponent's victory speech".
مراجعة كرتونية للكتاب تجدها على الرابط:http://agileurbia.com/4d2n
Take a May term class, they said. Get the most out of your tuition, they said.
A good for people who want to understand why people do the random things after sitting on the negotiation table. Every tactic has been summarised pretty well but the most important thing is to remember that all your negotiation should be based on principle. All this is easy to read and understand but actually perfection will only come, once you start observing these negotiations and start implementing the tactics.
Concise, practical book on negotiating Best-selling author William Ury has the topic of negotiation down cold. Reading this classic book (originally released in 1991) is a pleasure and the reasons it became a bestseller are obvious: It is clear, concise and eminently readable. This book has such wide appeal that getAbstract recommends it to all businesspeople and to anyone who ever needs to negotiate about anything – from cops bargaining with hostage takers to consumers pushing for the best car prices. Read this book and become a better negotiator.
I learnt a lot from the different negotiation strategies that I can apply not only in work but in my personal life to make my negotiations with others more effective :) The book had a very smooth structure that I liked because it gave me a sense of ideas' sequence. I strongly recommend it for people who find it difficult to reach an agreement with others and often struggle in negotiations :)
This book must be read in conjunction with "Getting to Yes" who was co-authored by William Ury, the author of this book. "Getting to Yes" is how to negotiate under ideal circumstances which are practices any negotiator must have in their tool box. "Getting Past No" is for the other 95% of negotiations when the other side refuses to talk, uses nefarious tricks and actively works against you.
The world would be a better place if everyone negotiated nicely with the best common interest in mind. Unfortunately most people who consider themselves "good negotiators," hagglers, and hard-bargaining are really just bullies or other personality disorders. The author gives some good tricks for dealing with them, but in real life you're probably better off walking away.
This book outlines a very good process by which to handle all negotiations in life. Very methodical without being overly specific. Quick read. I am going to read his others. eventually.
Useful guide in business negotiations.
Getting Past No digs deeper into how to deal with especially entrenched and difficult parties, and is packed with excellent quotes, anecdotes, and stories, many taken from history.
Most of the basic ideas are similar to Getting To Yes, but there were many more examples and stories.
Since I deal with positional, entrenched parties pretty regularly (lucky me), I found the extra depth helpful even though I am familiar with the basic principles.If I were judging this book by the power and usefulness of the negotiation tactics, it would get five stars.
كتاب خفيف لطيف. فيه الكثير من القيم و المواقف لصناعة و تطوير الذات. و كيفية تطبيق استراتيجيات الاختراق لتغيير وجهات نظر في العلاقات الصعبة. و مهارة السيطرة على الانفعال. و كذلك الابتعاد عن الجدل و تقبل الاخر و تفريغ نظرياته من معناها و تحويرها لتكوين فكر او وجهة نظر قريبة من وجه نظرك. و كيف تخفف من الضغط على الطرف الاخر حتى لا تخسر عملية التفاوض. واستخدم طرف ثالث جدير بالثقة. و يعطي الكتاب اهمية لعملية التصعيد في المواقف. و الفرق بين التهديد الصريح والانسحاب. ساعيد قراءة هذا الكتاب مرة اخرى. وانصح به.
A generic self-improvement cassette type sort of a book which touches on only the basic negotiation skills which are taught at schools. The examples provided in the book are pretty standard. My major qualm with this book is that it does not consider the personalities of people and how that may influence in the time of negotiation. My suggestion is give it a pass if you already have the basic negotiation skills.
Excellent book. Very well written; concise. It’s a fast read, and one that I will revisit many times. Real life, relatable examples help to clarify the concepts, and relevant quotes and anecdotes reinforce the main points. Each chapter includes a summary, and there is a book summary at the end as well. All in less than 200 pages. Bam!
Ury builds on previous works on this topic and does a good job in the first third of the book setting out the 'framework' for negotiating. The remainder of the book (like many business books), just continues to build on the original framework. Given the current political climate, I'd recommend this book to every member of Congress.
Nice and practicalThis book is well organized and easy to follow. It gives a lot of very practical and tangible advice, as well as a wide variety of examples. While I approached it as a “business book” it actually is applicable to many different relationships and situations in life.
Very concise and useful advice on handling difficult negotiations. The theories are illustrated with lots of examples which help understand and remember the main points. The ideas are well structured and the length of chapters (and of the book in general) is optimal.
Guidelines to live byGreat examples used for clarity.... Easy reading as well as highly enjoyable...I recommend this book to assist anyone in negotiations personally and professionaly
It is an interesting book, mainly tried to teach how how to get to your goal in a more appealing way for your counterpart. I enjoyed it because some of the ideas he brings to the table tend to be very doable and logical
This book was written before social media conquered the world but the lessons ring true. Empathy, patience and getting to the root of the issue by asking questions that focus on the other person, not you. Highly recommended
Very tough read for such a short book. Very dense on one on one negotiation’ s tactics, I would define it as the OK Corral guide...more examples or a more narrative style would have made it a more enjoyable read.
This!
Very detailed explanation and examples.
Not much added value following the "Getting to Yes." Still quite useful though.
Better than expected - combining analytical strategy and anecdotal tactics. Of course, good preparation is the key.
