https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252648.The_Postmodern_Condition
In the spirit of freshness and as a way of providing what I hope is a unique angle on the philosopher’s abstract theory, below are quotes from the text along with my observations incorporating what I judge to be a near-perfect literary example of Lyotard’s presentation of postmodernism in action: Donald Barthelme’s short story “Game.” One meaning of postmodern for Lyotard: “The emphasis can also be placed on the increase of being and the jubilation which results from the invention of new rules of the game, be it pictorial, artistic or any other.” ---------- The first thing our narrator tells us is how the other man in an underground bunker with him has a set of jacks and rubber ball and refuses to allow him, the narrator, to join in the game.
Well before Big Data there were ominous whispers.
The world was tumultuous and I lacked all grace.
I was blind drunk on my Nietzsche, sort of mumbled through the grotesque parts of Foucault (though it was his biographies that have resonated) with Derrida and the Rhizome Twins (D and G) just too cool for school.
Out of that rave this text resonated.
It simply asked, theoretically what can we adhere towards, lacking a legitimate metanarrative, we are orphans, without a heritage or metaphysical hope.
A short expository piece about the meaning of postmodernism.
In short, there is no single Grand Narrative about human history anymore.
Everybody has their own individual Narratives and none of these necessarily dominate.The reasoning behind this is apparently based on Wittgenstein's later work of language games, except taken under much more specific circumstances, where a single minor variation of a meaning or usage can completely distort and create a new 'game'.
But then he adds some foggy predictions about the future of technology gone amok.Now all this is about to make me throw up my hands and say 'enough'.
Legitimacy is the name of the game for Lyotard, and his borderline-wholesale rejection of legitimacy altogether places him squarely in opposition to Juergen Habermas, who had already attempted to ground intersubjective legitimacy in his theory of communicative action at the time this book was written.
Lyotard critiques the epistemic naïveté of scientists of the logical positivist ilk, arguing that a correspondence theory of truth presupposes privileged access to the world.
On the basis of general laws extrapolated from observation, scientists are able to launch robotic craft and fly them 300 million miles to Mars, and then to land them so gently that the robotic rovers within are not damaged.
. .any science that legitimates itself with reference to a metadiscourse of this kind [i.e., philosophy:] making an explicit appeal to some grand narrative, such as the dialectics of Spirit, the hermeneutics of meaning, the emancipation of the rational or working subject, or the creation of wealth." Postmodernism, in turn, is ".
Lyotard sees it as inevitable that bureaucrats and technocrats will be the ones to master this basic resource of power, information.
Lyotard argues that the Postmodern moment should emphasize "paralogy," or dissensus.
author proclaims the end of liberalism and Marxism because Wittgenstein. Or Nazis. Or Something.
ΟΚ, ομολογώ πως επανειλημμένα μου έκαψε τον εγκέφαλο, ωστόσο υπάρχουν ορισμένα χωρία που είναι κατανοητά. Σίγουρα πρόκειται για έργο αναφοράς και δεν υπάρχει μελέτη για το μεταμοντέρνο που να μην αναφέρεται στο παρόν βιβλίο. Παραμένει όμως, κατά τη γνώμη μου, πολύ δυσνόητο.
But it is in its nature to induce new requests meant to lead to a redefinition of the norms of 'life.' In this sense, the system seems to be a vanguard machine dragging humanity after it, dehumanizing it in order to rehumanize it at a different level of normative capacity.
The best I can gather, it is really just the age-old argument of relativism against absolutism, and I think the Sophists did a better job with that argument (Socrates be damned).Lyotard is more readable than most of the postmoderns I've come across (even so, I could stand to read this one a time or two more).
And (as with all philosophy I've read) this only gets interesting where the rubber meets the road (i.e., politics).
برای یک جلسه نقد رمان شروع ش کردم.
بعضٌ من الاقتباسات : السؤال الاستثيقي الحديث ليس : ما هو الجميل، بل : ما الفن و( الأدب)؟ من السهل أن نجد جمهوراً للأعمال التوليفة. فحينما يقوم الفن بالكيتش فإنه يغازل الفوضى التي تسود "ذوق" الهاوي. في غياب المعايير الاستثيقية، يبقى من الممكن والمفيد قياس قيمة الأعمال بالفائدة التي تجنيها. البحث الفني والأدبي مهدد مرتين، من طرف الثقافة السياسية من ناحية، ومن طرف سوق الفن والكتاب من ناحية أخرى. إن الإحساس السامي، الذي هو إحساس بالسامي أيضاً، بالنسبة إلى كانط هو انفعال قوي وملتبس: يحمل في الوقت ذات
بعضٌ من الاقتباسات : السؤال الاستثيقي الحديث ليس : ما هو الجميل، بل : ما الفن و( الأدب)؟ من السهل أن نجد جمهوراً للأعمال التوليفة.
فحينما يقوم الفن بالكيتش فإنه يغازل الفوضى التي تسود "ذوق" الهاوي.
أو بصيغة أفضل: هو اللذة التي تنبثق من الألم.إن العقلانية لا تكون معقولة إلا حينما تقبل أن العقل متعدد، مثلما يقول أرسطو عن الوجود أنه يذكر بعدة أشكال.إن العمل الأدبي والفني يقبل وفي الوقت نفسه يُلزم بأن يستمع له بجميع الأشكال الممكنة.
إن العمل لا يعاني من فرض " منهج " للقراءة، يحدد له معنى محدد ويسمح بتصنيفه لمرة واحدة دائمة.
"Let us wage war on totality; let us be witness to the unpresentable; let us activate the differences and save the honor of the name" Lyotard in TPC offers a summation of what postmodernism 'is' (incredulity towards metanarratives) and its critique of modernist paradigms (a la Habermas).Lyotard critiques science and institutions for legitimating knowledge, and commodifying knowledge.
But the important takeaway for me is Lyotard's opposition to the cold aesthetic policies of authoritarian governments, and a fundamental questioning of what, or who knowledge serves, and what power is behind it.Lyotard has a rather scathing critique of modern universities, which is only more poignant now that when Lyotard originally wrote TPC.
The modern, scientific world has drawn on one or another of these two narratives in an attempt to legitimize its knowledge of the world, only to find that it cannot do so within itself.
In other words, the modern world has been so concerned with creating a tight, logical totality of knowledge, never realizing that such a project is impossible to attain.The postmodern world then is that which seeks to present the unpresentable.
So Lyotard concludes then with a call to eschew totality and "activate differences." For it is through the differences, not the totalities, he argues, that we will enhance our knowledge of the world.
The Postmodern Condition is about the dominance of scientific knowledge over that of narrative, and the related death of meta-narratives.
It is, rather, only a concomitant symptom of the secular productive forces of history, a concomitant that has quite gradually removed narrative from the realm of living speech and at the same time is making it impossible to see a new beauty in what is vanishing.This concomitant symptom that Lyotard continues tracing does not emerge after modernity.
In The Postmodern Condition Lyotard is mourning not for the death of religion, or tradition, but for the removal of hope from the world.
A new problem appears: devices that optimize the performance of the human body for the purpose of producing proof require additional expenditures.
No money, no proof-and that means no verification of statements and no truth.
An equation between wealth, efficiency, and truth is thus established."Not five stars because Jameson's foreword isn't helpful at all, and he seems more interested in articulating the idea that Lyotard didn't understand Habermas than he is anything else.
But the argument with Habermas is like, the whole book.
So the foreword tells you that the book is misguided, but thankfully saved by Jameson's foreword.
Its main saving grace is its brevity. For the parts that discuss science, I found myself perpetually asking "really?" While certain, small insights seem wise, I found the concept of the "decline of the grand narrative," which stands at the centerpiece of the work, to be a total pretention. Indeed, Lyotard considered the work a failure, yet it still stands as his most famous work stateside. Eh, fuck this book.
cultural theory
Jameson's introduction to this is goalz. Fairly accessible read. Have a feeling that I'll keep coming back to this as academic life continues. What is life without Theory, maann!!
Postmodernism, What now? After the fall of the grand narratives, and the establishment of chaos as the philosophical reference to 'small truths,’ how can we succeed to find something accurate enough to last a long long time?For Lyotard, the age of the ‘universal’ the ‘one-transcending-truth’ ‘I-understood-it-all’ fell down to let us swaying on unstable grounds. So what now? Will we rebuild once again our way to truth, a universal truth even? Or will we stay busy with local truths?
Therefore, I can't claim to have even attempted to understand all the intricacies of Lyotard's writing, but I managed to extract a few big themes.One of the better points he brings up is an observation that at one point, knowledge and the university education were legitimized in the context of two grand metaphysical narratives about humanity's destiny, along the lines of "knowledge will liberate humanity" and "humanity's duty is to synthesize knowledge for its own sake".
And it is clearly narrative knowledge that is suffering a crisis, probably due to the failures of systematic thinking to generate meaningful results in the humanities, rather than scientific knowledge, which is as successful as always.
Ja, jag förstod ju ca 0 av detta resonemang vid första läsningen.
Si estuviera segura de haberlo entendido bien quizás le pondría un 3. Le doy el beneficio de la duda.
The radical difference is that the metanarratives of science and technology have been able to legitimize themselves through their own denotation to the exclusion of all other narratives which place things like moral traditions, tribal wisdom and even earlier philosophical prescriptions into incoherent positions.
The postmodern condition is, then, a loss of narrative knowledge to the means of science since it will manifest as efficient production through its use of power - which leaves grand-narratives broken into many pieces of differing positions (think of too many language games, beliefs and viewpoints).
O autor traça o caminho da crise de legitimação epistemológica do saber e da Ciência por meio das transformações mercantilistas a ocorrer no atual momento —convencionado como pós-moderno. As metanarrativas (relatos oriundos da modernidade que legitimaram o saber e a política até o pós-guerra, como, por exemplo, o saber como emancipador do ser/cidadão e propulsor da liberdade humana) não são mais capazes de sustentar a motivação sócio-econômica vigente, a qual se configura pela performance de me
As metanarrativas (relatos oriundos da modernidade que legitimaram o saber e a política até o pós-guerra, como, por exemplo, o saber como emancipador do ser/cidadão e propulsor da liberdade humana) não são mais capazes de sustentar a motivação sócio-econômica vigente, a qual se configura pela performance de mercado.
Contudo, os saberes científicos, ainda que paralógicos (para Lyotard, a parologia é a ação constante de recursividade e refutação dos conhecimentos vigentes, produzindo, assim, novos conhecimentos) podem ser legitimados pela busca por aplicações performáticas passageiras à serviço das necessidades sócio-econômicas atuantes.
Lyotard presents a fine observation on the language-games of society and its recent transformations, but it is difficult to say that his observations amount to a convincing argument, especially when his examples are drawn from difficult studies like the advanced fields of science and technology, of which he is not an expert.
Scientists could be less forgiving, for they could easily point out Lyotard's intentional use of surface-level scientific theories as logical constituents of his claim.But Lyotard's text is philosophical and metaphorical at best, one whose message is largely propelled by the uniqueness of the declaration and ability of the writer to provide an imaginative account of the paradigm shifts of his generation.
Instead, I found a rather accessible overview of the effects that scientific thinking have engendered on the fields of culture, art, and education, as the scientific mindset has altered the definition, character, and content of what we would term "knowledge." Lyotard's analysis is somewhat dense, but not so much so that it cannot be understood with only a minimal amount of effort.
And as an early identifier of some of the major consequences of the technological mindset, this is really foundational reading for any with interest in the postmodern as it relates to art and media.
Postmodern has its good and its bad sides but if you really want to get to know the subject it's best not to rely too much on introductory texts that truncate and misrepresent the arguments of the movement. Therein is the problem, Postmodernism is often wrapped in impenetrable, obscurantist language. It is that way for a reason.Lyotard's seminal The Postmodern Condition is one of the easier works to get to grips with, especially, compared to say, Deleuze and Guattari's works. This makes it invaluable to any serious student of PoMo.
Fantastic work explaining the Post Modern condition. I read most of this as part of a class on Post Modernism, and began reading the book as skeptical on what I had been learning in class, and walked away a believer. Lyotard is challenging, but very understandable if you give the text the proper amount of attention. I would recommend this to anybody who needs some clarification about what postmodernism actually is, especially in regards to its contention with modernism. What seems like pretentious nonsense on the outside looking iy becomes a very powerful theory if you engage with it.
A bit overstated at times. True to his Marxist roots, Lyotard vastly overestimates the autonomy of the "system" from society (or what have you). I also disagree with Lyotard's argument that paralogy could ever serve as a form of legitimation; paralogy renders the very thought of legitimation absurd. But, aside from Lyotard's obliquely prescriptive conclusion, this book is absolutely brilliant. Habermas, despite many efforts, has never mounted an altogether effective answer to it.
There are a few traits in Lyotard's theory that I cannot agree with, but either way it is a relevant reading to understand the post-modern world, specially when we associate it to Fredric Jameson's writing.
Prescient but often tedious.
