https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313329.Richard_Scarry_s_Best_Mother_Goose_Ever
I have memories of the delightful illustrations and catchy nursery rhymes from my childhood. Was delighted to find a copy when my youngest was a baby, and have enjoyed it alongside both my children since. A must-have for every household with youngins.
I love these old fashioned nursery rhymes.
And Richard Scarry's illustrations are always fun.
The book is pretty big, with usually only one rhyme per page, so the illustrations are huge.
I think my favorite picture is Elsie Marley, who is too fine to feed the swine.And my favorite rhyme is:One misty, moisty morning, When cloudy was the weather,I chanced to meet an old manClothed all in leather,Clothed all in leather, With cap under his chin.How do you do, and how do you do,And how do you do again?I really enjoy this book; it's so fun to read these to my kiddos.
Part IRhyme Answer or completion Anthology/PageIn what rhyme is the hour of one o' clock important?Hickory, Dickory DockThe Real Mother Goose illustrated by Blanche Fisher Wright pg. 125Child Craft Vol. 1 Once Upon a Time, pg. 11Mother Goose a Collection of Classic Nursery Rhymes Selected and Illustrated by Michael Hague, pg. 26When we ride a cock horse to Banbury Cross, what are we going to buy? A Galloping HorseA penny white loaf, a penny white cake, a two penny apple pie. Century Co. , The Ce
Part IRhyme	Answer or completion	Anthology/PageIn what rhyme is the hour of one o' clock important?Hickory, Dickory DockThe Real Mother Goose illustrated by Blanche Fisher Wright pg.
46Mother Goose a Collection of Classic Nursery Rhymes Selected and Illustrated by Michael Hague, pg.
46Mother Goose a Collection of Classic Nursery Rhymes Selected and Illustrated by Michael Hague, pg.
46Mother Goose a Collection of Classic Nursery Rhymes Selected and Illustrated by Michael Hague, pg.
Most of the Mother Goose rhymes that I read had the index in alphabetical order based on the first lines of the poems.
The interesting and rich language of the music and poetry selections (yes, even simple Mother Goose Rhymes) helps the child develop a taste for and comfort with the beautiful, stylistic language ubiquitous in the classical education to come.
With this kind of introduction on a Jr. K level I am intrigued and excited for what we may expect in years to come.Up to this point we have covered the lesson plans, phonics, math and now poetry.
Target audience: Early elementarySummary: Fifty of the most well known and familiar of the Mother Goose rhymes, (from a diller, a dollar to Wee Willie Winkle) illustrated in typical "Golden Books" style.
Strengths/weaknesses: The greatest strength of this book is the classic Mother Goose rhymes as well as the very sturdy construction of the book.
Whether the style of the illustrations is appealing or not is a matter of taste.Personal critique: The style of the illustrations in this book seem somewhat dated compared to some of the more modern picture books available today.
More than adequate, but there are a lot of choices available for Mother Goose books.Illustrations: As a picture book, the illustrations are the key element.
1. Appropriate level: Toddlers- 1st Grade2.
Summary: This book is made up of fifty favorite and not so well-known nursery rhymes are brought to vibrant life by Richard Scarry.
This oversize book depicts these most classic characters in bright, funny, colorful ways.3: Review: This is a great colorful book to teach children about rhymes.
It has simple vocabulary words which the children will be able to read out-aloud with the teacher or parent.
4. In class use: Its a great book for a read-aloud for the whole class.
It can be used to teach the children about rhymes.
Grabbing a book by this author is such a great gift to give the children you love and to help them on that road to learning.
I read this book a lot as a toddler. It has rhymes, and features many cats. Extremely derivative.
The drawings are good as always. The nursery rhymes include many unfamiliar/obscure ones. One about Taffy the Welshman was surprising in its plot of repeated thefts and escalating vengeance.
Loved
One of our family's favorites. A fun read. A great choice for every child's bookshelf.
Enjoyed this as a child.
The illustrations are large, detailed, varied, and fanciful; I would compare it them to a combination of Norman Rockwell, Walt Disney, and Salvador Dali.
As one example, Jack Sprat's wife appears to have some "lean" vegetables and fruits on her side of the table (though certainly a much larger quantity of food than Jack himself).
C. Richard Scarry's Best Mother Goose book ever is one of the best rhyme books ever!4 I would use this book to read to a group of children from ages 5-6.
The use of the rhymes in conjunction with the colorful illustrations make this a great book.
Best Mother Goose Ever contains fifty mother goose nursery rhymes artfully illustrated by Richard Scarry.
One nursery rhyme fills two pages, which makes this perfect for read aloud.
Best Mother Goose Ever is pleasing to the eye because of Richard Scarry’s animal illustrations for each of the nursery rhymes.
Preschoolers will appreciate the sweetness in the characters faces and enjoy memorizing the nursery rhymes from each page.
I purchased this old book (copyrighted in 1964 & 1970) at a used book store because I fell in love with Richard Scarry's illustrations.
I read many books illustrated by Scarry throughout my childhood.
This book contains the traditional Mother Goose rhymes with detailed, animal-filled illustrations by Scarry.
The rhyme about an old woman who lived in a shoe shows a cheerful mother rabbit with 41 children (yes, I counted them).
I believe every home with children needs a book of Mother Goose nursery rhymes.
Richard Scarry's Best Mother Goose Ever!
Characters: traditional Mother Goose characters such as Jack, Jill, etcSetting: variousIntended audience: preschoolers, kindergartnersWith illustrated animals as the vehicle for conveying the rhymes and plain white backgrounds on every page, Scarry's presentation of the classic verses is a bit too simple.
The pictures, composed of pen and watercolor, are juvenile and unstimulating, and require minimal thought on the part of the reader.
Each page consists of the exact same type, size, and color font-- except each nursery rhyme's beginning letter, which is slightly larger and mildly embellished.
Far from the best ever, it would be surprising if this book held the attention of even its most motivated reader.
Many pages are coming out (but none are missing).
And features poetry by little Pam, plus written commentary by little Pam ("I lik the cut kitten." - must've been before I learned "silent e".) It also has a page of fashion design drawings I did, probably around age 8.
So many memories of being read this by my Mom!
I did cheat and read this one out of "shelf order" but that is acceptable according to our house rules for our reading every children's book project.
The books are not shelved in order, and therefore may be read in any order, but only count once.
This is my current favorite Mother Goose/Nursery Tales compilation.
In addition to the kid-pleasing Richard Scarry-ness of the illustrations, I love the actual feel of this book.
If you know me in real life, you know that I am easily prejudiced against a book if it doesn't feel right in my hands while I'm reading it...
This one contains all the traditional stories and nursery rhymes but also meets my standards of hold-ability.
If Richard Scarry isn't your thing, I am also a big fan of the Paul Galdone stories and The Real Mother Goose Board Book.
This book is a collection of well loved nursery rhymes set in the world of Richard Scarry.
Many readers (and parents alike) may recognize the characters from the Richard Scarry TV show or the "Busytown" computer game.
The pages are filled with large full-color illustrations portraying the nursery rhymes in action.
Most of the rhymes are confined to one or two pages, and there are no titles.
Overall, I found this book to be lighthearted and entertaining, but the lack of titles and page numbers made the book difficult to navigate.
I would recommend this book for parents and young readers.
Read by: AnnieAuthor: Richard ScarryGenre: Traditional LiteratureInterest Level: K - 2This book contains most of the familiar Mother Goose rhymes, as well as many unfamiliar (and strange!) ones. It's a little too long to teach as a single lesson; better to break it up or pick and choose specific rhymes. Some of the language is quite outdated, which could be skipped or made into a mini history lesson. This book contains excellent, literal illustrations that children will like. This would make a great addition to an author/illustrator study.
Some of these are the classics that I heard as a kid and some I've never heard. Most are fine but a few I skip over because they just don't seem all that kid friendly if you know what I mean. I don't think I'm over the top with what I don't allow Julia access too but some of these are a little crazy. I can't see sitting in bed at bedtime reading to Julia about violence- whether it's a cat playing pretend or real- same thing in a 3 year olds mind.
These rhymes were read to me and my brothers when we were very young. We then all read them ourselves and it required much sticky tape repairs due to our love of it, when my two younger siblings were born this book was dug out again and much loved by both of them. It has also been read to my nephews when they were old enough to appreciate it - I will make sure to buy a copy when I have my own children and hope the get the same joy out of it as I did.
Good grief, I loved this book when I was a kid! I wore it out! This book is so synonymous with nursery rhymes for me that when I recite nursery rhymes with my niece and/or nephew, an inordinate number of Richard Scarry cats, pigs, rabbits, and dogs parade through my head as we speak the words. Jack Sprat will forever be a skinny little tomcat in my mind, and Peter Peter Pumpkin Eater? Yeah, he's a rabbit.
Richard Scarry's selection of classic Mother Goose rhymes. I have had this one since childhood.Nice exemplars of rhyming and certain types of poetic forms. Older children could sort poems by type or Imitate forms in their own writing. Useful for oral reading fluency practice especially the tongue twisters. Younger children could illustrate the a rhyme for an art integration.
As always, Richard Scarry's illustrations are very cute. The narration includes standard Mother Goose rhymes, although they have not been edited at all and can be a little brutal. "Be he alive or be he dead, I'll grind his bones to make my bread." and "She whipped them all soundly and sent them to bed." Ugh!
Someone devoted some time to pointing out the differences between the 1963 and 1991 editions of The Best Word Book Ever. Some of the changes are in the name of respecting cultural identity or gender equality but others are just weird. Like, no more jumping out windows. Bummer. http://www.flickr.com/photos/kokogiak...
Richard Scarry is a classic, and it's nice to see nursery rhymes that haven't been dumbed down for kids. These are the originals, and they're as wonderful and the illustrations. Definitely better for preschool aged kids. We only checked it out because my toddler found it at the library and refused to put it down.
Amazing illustrations, made me laugh over and over as to what type of animal Richard Scarry would choose to represent the various Mother Goose characters. Lots of good times with the kids with this book.
It's fine, though I question the inclusion of 'When I was a bachelor'--and the exclusion of such classics as 'Humpty Dumpty' and 'Jack and Jill'--in a collection of the 'best' nursery rhymes. But my 18-month-old seems to be a big fan.
A good selection of Mother Goose nursery rhymes. This book brings nursery rhymes more modern with the use of Richard Scarry's illustrations. This book offers a variety of opportunities to incorporate lessons in the classroom from phonological awareness, to rhyming patterns, to counting.
