https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1393718._rasme
A short biography of Erasmus by a writer now mostly forgotten now being rediscovered with a vengeance, at least among my friends here on GR.
He was judged in the 1920s and 1930s to be one of the most famous writers in the world.
I haven't seen any indication that his biographies have been rediscovered, however - mostly just his fiction, and The World of Yesterday.
His succinct biographies include Balzac, Dickens, Dostoevsky, Rolland, Nietzsche, Tolstoy, and many others..
.Previous review: The English PatientNext review: The Eye in the DoorMore recent review: Strangers and Brothers SnowPrevious library review: The Odyssey: A Modern SequelNext library review: Oblomov
Ultimately, Luther won, but the revolution he spawned grew quickly out of his control and led to centuries of bloodshed as Erasmus had feared.
The postface has an interesting note in how Erasmus' work did live on the the philosophy of Gandhi (and Mandela), but that unfortunately, at his period, the hawk-like mentality of Luther and the opportunism and selfishness of The Prince still holds the predominate power over politics.
I felt quite an affinity with Erasmus and certainly am an adept of his principles, but unfortunately the majority of people today are not of that opinion.
This triumphant biography belongs to an exclusive charter: there are few books which I can say I read in an evening alone.
I checked this out from the library and upon returning home from work I was summoned to accompany my wife to Target.
I sat on the store's hipster furniture and read for almost a hour, another patron cautioned that the store didn't care for customers to sleep on the premises.
I finished the book upon the return home.
The book tackles such an enigmatic author and the conclusion where an ailing Erasmus is greeted by Rabelais is simply heart breaking.
Triumph und Tragik bildet mit Castellio gegen Calvin eine Art historisches Diptychon gegen den Faschismus, auch wenn die gegenwärtigen Ziele nicht persönlich angegriffen werden.
Die Humanisten Castellio oder Erasmus als die gescheiterten Vermittler und Vertreter der Toleranz.Das Erasmus-Buch ist sicherlich die schwierigere Aufgabe, denn der Held weigert sich stets Stellung zu beziehen, dem Humanisten Nummer eins und Vordenker der Reformation geht seine Unabhängigkeit über alles und ebenso wie der Schutz seiner empfindlichen Physis.
Von daher entzieht sich der wortgewandte Diplomat nicht nur dem Bitten der Kirche wie der Reformatoren, für ihre Sache Stellung zu Beziehen.
Inerme di fronte alla realtà, vitale solo nell'attività cerebraleQuesto saggio di Zweig più che una biografia è un'analisi del pensiero del sacerdote, teologo e filosofo olandese Erasmo, arricchita di riferimenti biografici.Il libro non si può certo definire spumeggiante.
Erasmo, in altre parole, nel suo scritto più importante descrive una situazione umana opposta alla sua; chissà, forse la sua condizione di pragmatico e razionale gli è stata un po' stretta...Un uomo molto intelligente, quindi, Erasmo.

Leyendo a Stefan Zweig, no se concibe fácilmente que sea posible escribir mejor una biografía de uno de los grandes personajes de la historia.
Zweig hace accesibles los más grandes temas que trataron las personas que han configurado nuestra civilización occidental sin dejar de ser riguroso, porque respeta la esencia, habilidad a la que llega porque su erudición y estudio repetuoso de la obra y época se lo permite hacer.
En el caso de Erasmo, el juicio personal del carácter dubitativo y temeroso aparece documentado en numerosos hechos, a la par que nos muestra la grandeza de su obra escrita, quizás el teólogo/filósofo más importante de la historia de Occidente.
Yes. I knew Erasmus was a critic of certain Church practices, but he was a reformer rather than a revolutionary like Luther.
He was concerned with doctrinal issues but not to the extent that they could lead to chaos and destruction, evidence by religious conflicts that occurred in the 16th and 17th centuries.Zweig does more than just tell the story of E’s life.
Although E was highly regarded in certain circles, Zweig explains why he did not have larger impact on European affairs during his life time.
He was content to study and write his books for a small but highly literate audience rather than lead a movement.
The setting is Renaissance Europe during the religious Reformation.Semi spoilers ahead:The biography of Desiderius Erasmus "Prince of the Humanists" is a dire tale, unfortunately true, of what happens when a careful, deeply learned theologian tries to remain temperate in the midst of a religiously politic storm boiling around him.
His attempts to remain neutral, to avoid inflaming either faction, has the dismal effect of rendering him recipient of everyone's fury.Also it is astounding to witness, via Stefan Zweig's deft pen, how a relationship of mutual respect between two historically important figures: Erasmus and Luther, deteriorates into major awfulness, despite continued attempts of the former to cleave to civility and to tactics of careful, pinpointed Reform.
Un drama digno de la pluma de Stefan Zweig.La personalidad de Erasmo es pintado de manera sumamente bella y clara, en apenas unas pinceladas: “La vastedad le atraía, la profundidad, no … Todo lo exagerado era por necesidad ajeno a su carácter cerebral … no hubo nadie en le Edad Media menos supersticioso que él … sólo podía entender y hacer entender lo universalmente comprensible.” Su relevancia como personaje en la Historia Universal es presentada con similar acierto: “La Reforma alemana y la Ilustración, la interpretación libre de la Biblia y las sátiras de Rabelais o Swift, la idea de Europa y el humanismo moderno, todo esto sale de su pensamiento sin ser, sin embargo, obra suya.” De esta forma nos presenta el autor la genialidad de este hombre al tiempo que ilumina los rasgos que le caracterizan en el devenir de la trama, esa ironía histórica que le hace “luz de su siglo pero otros [ser] la fuerza, él iluminó el camino pero fueron otros los que supieron transitarlo.”Este libro es, definitivamente, uno de los mejores libros sobre cualquier tema que haya leído en mi vida.
Anlatılanları sanki üçüncü bir göz gibi izliyordum olay yerinde.
Keşke bu kitabı okumak için geç kalmasaydım.
Kitabı okurken bahsi geçen metinleri, mektupları çevirilerine ulaşabildiğim kadarıyla okumaya çalıştım.
Erasmus’tan sonra en büyük hasmı Martin Luther’in hayatını merak ediyorum şimdi.
Böylesine kanlı bir ortamda sanatlar gelişip serpilemez; uluslarüstü bir toplumun oluşturulması, bundan böyle onyıllar için, yüzyıllar için, belki de hiçbir zaman için düşünülemeyecektir ve Latince, birleşik Avrupa'nın bu son dili, Erasmus'un yüreğinin dili de can çekişmekte­dir: O halde artık sen de ölebilirsin, Erasmus!”Erasmus tarafında mıyımyoksa Luther mi bilmiyorum ama okurken en çok dinlediğim şarkı Coldplay - Viva La Vida oldu.
Sanki en çok bu yakışıyor gibi.
Eser ile sadece Desiderius Erasmus’un değil aynı zamanda Martin Luther’in kişiliğini ve fikirlerini de öğreniyorsunuz.
Ahmet Cemal’in muhteşem çevirisi ile her iki dahi arasındaki kişilik farklılıklarının ve fikir ayrılıklarının akıcı bir şekilde açıklandığı kitabı okuyarak hümanizmin ve protestanlığın doğuşu hakkında da bilgilenmiş oluyorsunuz.
Eğer sözlükteki “bağnaz” sözcüğünün bir karakterde(Martin Luther) nasıl yaşam bulduğunu ve günümüz konuşma diline de yerleşmiş Erasmus Anlayışı kavramının nereden kaynaklandığını bilmek istiyorsanız bu kitabı okumalısınız.
Bu kitabı okurken daha önce seyrettiğim “Luther” isimli filmden pek de doğru sonuçlar çıkaramadığımı fark ettim.
Açıklamada Luther’in reformu silahsız ve kansız yaptığı söyleniyor oysa ki Stefan Zweig bu ünlü “bağnaz” ile ilgili hiç de öyle demiyor.
Erasmus'un hayatını Stefan Zweig in gözüyle görmeye başladım önce, ardından Martin Lutherle yıllar süren tartışmalarını okudum (en sevdiğim bölüm bu bölüm oldu). En sonda kısa bir şekilde Erasmus sonrasi Avrupayi gördüm.Ama ne anladığımı soracak olursanız tarihsel olarak baktığımızda devrimci veyahut yenilikçi olarak tasfir edeceğimiz kişiler o zamanki fikirleriyle günümüzde yaşasalar insanlık adina eleştireceğimiz kişilerdir.
Erasmo es el máximo exponente del humanismo. Erasmo es el germen de la idea de integración europea (Según Zweig, el primer europeo consciente de serlo). Se relata también el ascenso de Lutero y su posicionamiento equidistante (de Erasmo) en la lucha Reforma-ContraReforma. En los momentos decisivos, Erasmo desaparecía (Dieta de Worms y Augsburgo).
an interesting focus on the origin of the separation that was made in the reformation and a good emphasis on how the climate itself changed.his advocacy to the middle road through the character of Erasmus which he build seems to be appropriate as well as his critique of the type of cynicism that was involved
Má segja að erasmíski draumurinn um sigur skynsemi og rökhyggju yfir eigingirni og þjóðernisrembing hafi ræst eftir fimm alda ófrið í Evrópu með stofnun Evrópusambandsins? Bókin er skrifuð1933/34 og höfundur er ekki bjartsýnn, enda skynjar hann hvernig öldur þjóðernishyggjunnar slettast upp að ströndum Evrópu. Og Zweig veit hvað það þýðir..
Another nice biography from Stefan Zweig. Amazing that everyone was and is still talking about Martin Luther but rarely anyone about Erasmus.
A very interesting book, especially the contrast between Érasme and Martin Luther. I also liked the way Zweig set the context in Europe, with the discovery of the New World and all of the intellectual ferment that followed. My only complaint is that Zweig tends to repeat himself a lot, especially at the beginning of the book, with fairly vague statements about Érasme--his philosophy, his intellectual approach, etc. When he gets past this, the book picks up and becomes more enjoyable.
Trotzdem hat Zweig das Leben und die Werke des Theologen Erasmus zusammengetragen und als Vorbild für Europa hingestellt.Erasmus stammte aus ärmlichen Verhältnissen und wurde Mönch in einem Kloster.
„Erasmus und die Erasmiker meinen, das Menschliche im Menschen könne nur gesteigert werden vermittels der Bildung und des Buches.“ (Seite 94)Er war ein Vordenker der Idee einer Europäischen Union.
In seiner Heimat wurde er angefeindet und so verlässt er die Stadt und zieht nach Basel, wo er in Ruhe rein wissenschaftlich arbeiten kann, aber auch da ereilt ihn die Herausforderung und es kommt zu einem Abschlag mit Martin Luther.
I assume that Erasmus is not a well-known figure in today's times, so  if someone is here is probably because he/she has read other books of Zweig and has come for more.
However, as much as I love Zweig, I have to say that if you want to know about Erasmus' life and work in detail there are probably better books out there.
In the end, Erasmus is as fallible as every human being, and in his life, we can find some things to imitate and some others to avoid.It's also interesting the reflections of Zweig on Machiavellianism and Humanism, and how the former has apparently triumphed in the battle against the latter.
Nothing is farther from his mind than to endeavor to abolish these contrasts after the manner of the fanatic and the system-monger who would like to see all values reduced to a common integer and every flower constrained to make one shape and one color." (117-8)"All that Erasmus sought was peace and tranquility of soul; all that Luther sought was to create a tension and a convulsion of the emotions." (136)"[A]n ideal which, because it has failed to secure embodiment in action, is neither worn out nor compromised in any way, continues to work as a ferment in subsequent generations, urging them to the achievement of higher morality.
Un ideale, invece, panumano, conciliante, supernazionale al pari di quello erasmico, non offre ai giovani, i quali vogliono guardare in faccia bellicosamente l'avversario, un bersaglio nitido ed efficace, e non ha in sé la forza elementare di una dottrina orgogliosa e intransigente, che addita il nemico al di là del proprio confine e al di fuori della propria confessione religiosa.---Nel campo dello spirito tutte le antitesi hanno posto; anche ciò che non si afferma mai vittorioso nella realtà, serba in esso la sua efficacia come energia propulsiva e sono appunto gli ideali irrealizzabili che si dimostrano i più invincibili.
A persuasive pictureStefan Zweig paints a portrait of Erasmus as bookish and withdrawing from the violence and dirt of the everyday world outside.
He wants more than anything to promote peace and unity in Europe - and to be left alone to pursue his writing in freedom - but his own celebrity status, and the fanatical religious disputes and wars aroused by Luther's rejection of the Catholic Church's failings, mean that Erasmus is constantly being courted by one side or the other.
"Felului meu de a gândi i se potrivește mai degrabă o cărare mai liniștită și mai sigură. Eu nu pot decât să urăsc dezbinarea și să iubesc pacea și înțelegerea, căci mi-am dat seama cât de nebuloase sunt toate treburile omenești. Știu cu cât este mai ușor să stârnești confuzia decât s-o risipești. Și, deoarece nu în toate chestiunile mă încred în propria mea judecată, prefer să mă abțin de a mă pronunța cu toată certitudinea cu privire la felul de a gândi al altuia." Erasmus din Rotterdamhttps://www.scribd.com/document/32696...
The bits about the relationship between Luther and Erasmus are fascinating. Zweig is an entertaining, engaging writer. You take what he says with a grain of salt - he's got that Eurocentric, what-happens-here-happens-to-the-whole-world tendency in him - but he certainly pulls you in. He doesn't waste time on random stuff or get bogged down anywhere uninteresting, and he keeps the pace moving along very nicely. He's sympathetic to Erasmus, but not afraid to call him out where necessary. Enjoyed it. Definitely will read more of his work. In fact - I'm going to read 'Right to Heresy' next!
Zweig made something of a specialty of these intellectual and biographical sketches seeking as well to catch the spirit of the times.
Erasmus was appealing to him as the driving force for a supra national humanism, in which education and the Golden mean would remove all conflict and barriers to progress.
Yer Zweig is too smart not to realize that there was an elitism to Erasmus ‘s methods and a passivity to his character that overwhelms him both in his own time and to posterity.
Erasmus was repeatedly aloof to the conflicts his own writings had engendered.
Zweig’in biyografilerini okumaktan epey keyif alıyorum. Kitap Erasmus’un hayatındaki konumu ve bu süreçteki Avrupa’nın “bağnazlık” zamanlarını anlatıyor. Ayrıca hümanizmin nasıl Erasmus fikirlerine ve inançlarına yön verdiğini detaylı bir şekilde öğrenme fırsatı sunuyor. Buna ek olarak Erasmus’un son nefesine kadar donemin en önemli olaylarından katoliklik ve Protestanlık arasındaki “savaştaki” örtük ve açık rollerini ayrıntılı bir şekilde ortaya koymakta. Genel olarak beğenmekle beraber biyografik öğelerden beklentilerim daha yüksekti. Ahmet Cemal çevirisi ile okuması epey keyifliydi. Yayınevinin hiç bir teknik hatasının bulunmaması da bu deneyimi epey keyifli kılan detaylardan biriydi...
Bogen udkom i 1934 og den har ikke ubetinget stået distancen. Men med tanke på pacifisten, humanisen og den elitiært intellektuelle Stefan Zweigs smerte og depression over nazismens og voldens fremmarch i sin samtid,må man undskylde de til tider lidt skingre, svulstige og naivt idealistiske vendinger. I stedet kan man nyde den fine skildring af den forfinet intellektuelle Erasmus, der nægter at tage parti og der med engagere sig uden dog at kunne undgå dette, når den bombastiske og grove Martin Luther buldrer frem med sin konfrontation og Reformation.
A travers cette biographie d'Ersame, c'est sa propre vie et ses propres convictions qu'exprimen Stefan Zweig. Comme toujours, le style est a la fois fluide et elegant. Mais Zweig se repete beaucoup, et ecrit un texte qui, parce qu'il fait un grande place aux idees, manque cruellement de teneur historique. Apres une centaine de pages, on cerne tres bien le personnage, mais l'on ne connait presque rien de sa vie. C'est donc une biographie qui, a la longue, laisse le lecteur feru d'histoire sur sa faim...
Un humanista escribe sobre otroEste breve libro es muy didáctico. Personalmente ignoraba casi todo sobre Erasmo y sobre su influencia en la Reforma Protestante. Más que una biografía es un relato de la evolución de las ideas, y sobre la lucha entre la razón y la pasión. Vivimos hoy tiempos tan difíciles como los que vivió Erasmo, y como los que vivió Zweig en 1938 cuando escribió el libro. El mensaje de Erasmo continúa actual, pero sigue sin ser escuchado...
