https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3756539-thuvia-maid-of-mars-the-chessmen-of-mars
Both stories follow the multiple cliffhangers / damsel in distress / Sword and Planet genre formula of his original Carter tales, but while Thuvia, Maid of Mars feels a bit like another John Carter tale (featuring his half-Martian son, Carthoris), The Chessmen of Mars is by far the superior of the two, and arguably the best of the five I've read so far.In Chessmen, the damsel in distress (Carter's half-Martian daughter, Tara) is slightly more self-sufficient than her mother, Dejah Thoris, though no less inclined to continually need rescuing from the clutches of men who cannot resist her beauty.
Conferma l'impressione il gradimento dei precedenti volumi: Avvincente e ancora leggibile anche se penalizzato dal fatto di essere stato scritto più di cento anni fa. L'avventura ha la preminenza sulla fantascienza, lo svolgersi degli eventi sull'approfondimento dei personaggi; notevole inventiva narrativa, specialmente per quanto riguarda le varie razze di Barsoom.
Yes, these books are dated and silly and really repetitive, but I love them anyway.I enjoyed Thuvia, Maid of Mars, which follows Cathoris (John Carter’s son) and Thuvia of Ptarth.
It’s more of the same from the earlier books, although I still found it a really fun read with some new supporting characters and enjoyable action.On the other hand, I really adored The Chessmen of Mars, which I think is best described as a fairy tale retold as a space opera adventure with romantic comedy elements.I mean, here's the beginning: A princess meets a foreign prince at a ball.
One of the weakest in the series of ERB's "A Princess of Mars" chronicles, this book is written with less intensity and sophistication than Burroughs' other entries in the series.
A weak ERB novel is still pretty damn good; it just doesn't reach the bench mark I've come to expect from the his other Mars tales.
The personal narrative of Carthoris is not quite as fervent or stirring as "A Princess of Mars" or any of the tales told by John Carter in the first person, but there's plenty of low-hanging fruit to enjoy.If you love ERB's Mars stories, you'll be amused and maybe even fascinated by some of the principles he philosophizes about here.
I thoroughly enjoyed these 2 tales of heroics on the planet Mars. I was worried that shifting the focus away from John Carter would diminish the excitement, but Burroughs had a talent for telling essentially the same story over and over, yet making it feel like a new adventure every time. I am still in awe by the forward thinking he put into these space age tales as he wrote them in the early 1900s. I tracked down the remaining six(!) novels of Barsoom and can't wait to revisit the dying world of Mars.
Nel secondo volume del ciclo di Marte tornano John Carter e la sua sposa, assieme a nuovi personaggi (figli inclusi).La protagonista assoluta è però l'avventura, oltre alla geniale fantasia di Burroughs.Nel secondo volume del ciclo di Marte tornano John Carter e la sua sposa, assieme a nuovi personaggi (figli inclusi).La protagonista assoluta è però l'avventura, oltre alla geniale fantasia di Burroughs.
A must for all sci-fi fans. Burroughs captures all the romance and adventure you would expect from a pulp writer, a really talented pulp writer. Chock full of plot twists, heroic exploits and derring-do, strange martian species, damsels in distress and incredibly brave, chivalrous, and masculine heroes. A page-turner and I loved every minute of it!
Out of the two stories in this one book, the better one was "The Chessmen of Mars"......long live Ghek!
Barsoom,ERB,John Carter
The Chessman of Mars is a better story then Thuvia, Maid of Mars.
Thuvia, Maid of Mars & the Chessmen of Mars by Edgar Rice Burroughs (1972)
