https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278958.I_Am_David
In chapter three David learns that there is a Queen in England. That sets the book in a time of 1953 or later.Were there still concentration camps in Eastern Europe? Many reviewers feel the Nazi's were the guards, well that can't be in 1953. The story was well good enough, nothing spectacular, I struggled to give it 3 stars. With so many good YA WW2 novels around I would not recommend it, it was a little boring. Sorry just telling how I read it.
I loved this book when I was a kid. When I reread it a while back as an adult, I found it less believable, but still a very good story.
I had first seen this movie and had a feeling the book would be great also. Although the plots differed more than I thought they would, I thoroughly enjoyed both the movie and the book. In the book, I liked how you get more insight into David's thoughts. He is a remarkable boy, to say the least.It is a young adult novel and I think the author took some liberties with the plot that adults won't "buy". I liked the way they "fixed" that in the movie. All in all, I would highly recommend both the book and the movie.
A young boy escapes from a concentration camp somewhere in "eastern Europe" and walks and hitchhikes his way to Denmark.
He's lived his whole life in camp so he doesn't know anything about the outside world, doesn't even know about money or how to eat properly at a table.
he prays to a "god of rivers and streams" and is afraid of being caught by "them." He's totally clueless, yet manages to survive this whole long journey, despite getting captured again.
I compare it to The Boy in the Striped Pajamas, which is far better and leaves more of an emotional impact.
I don't even know what's good to eat and what's poisonous..." pg 38"In the camp, thinking would have made life unbearable, but when you were free, it was necessary..." pg 54"God of the green pastures and the still waters, I am David and I choose You as my God!
But You must please understand that I can't do anything for You, because I've always been in a wicked place where no one could think or learn or get to know anything, and so I know nothing about what people ought to do for their God. But the David Johannes used to talk about knew that even if he couldn't see You, You were there and were stronger than any men.
I love this book very much.I want people to read this book so they know why I love the book and hopefully they will love it to!
I also want people to read it because I know that they will LOVE it to!
" I Am David " or "David in Denmark" or " North to freedom" is a very good book to read.
I recomend that people read it but only 9 and up read it because I don't think the age under 9 should be reading a book like this because it is just a little bit much for them.
I first read this book as s teen, and was deeply moved by it.
Rereading it as an adult, it becomes clear both how deeply damaged this young boy is by his experience, and how important his faith becomes for him.
I always cry when I read this book!
This is why David is so clear that only books written before 1917 may contain the truth.
An example: I suggested it to a mom for her son, who was about 12 - she told me afterwards that, as he was reading, he would say, "Mom, listen to this!" and them begin reading aloud to her.
This is all about character.Because David grew up in a concentration camp, he knew little socially or culturally of the outside world, but because of conditions in the camp, he had had the opportunity to learn several different languages and had been taught manners and a degree of faith by a good and gentle man who had taken him under wing.
I also would have liked to have known who Johannes was, due to his extraordinary influence on David, especially on the development of his sense of integrity, and especially in a concentration camp setting.
David's young age is in sharp contrast to his world-view and experience - a detail Holm continuously reminds us through adults' observations of him - most particularly of his eyes, which represent the window to the soul.The language is beautifully sparse and simple but somehow manages to convey an enormous amount of human emotion from pain and suffering to sheer joy.
The accessibility yet power of the language is so impressive, I want to try to adopt that into my own style (not doing too well in this review)!David is a superbly written character and Holm does a brilliant job of creating a young man who has only ever known a concentration camp, has exceptionally high moral standards and who's discovering the 'real' world and adapting to it.
From the drab, depressing surroundings of the prison camp to the wide world of freedoms, colors, smells, scenery, being clean, and being honest, David cautiously learns about the world around him.
This book is a learning adventure at becoming true to one's self.
At one point in the book, a boy beats up David, but David doesn't fight back.
My ALL TIME favorite children's book since the 3rd grade when my teacher read it to the class.
I own two copies and have even underlined some of my favorite quotes throughout the book.
I first read this book under it's American released title of North To Freedom way back in Jr. High (in the 7th/'72'-'73'/or 8th/'73'-'74/grade) a little less than 10 years After it's American debute in 1965.At the time i imagined it was a W.W.II story not really knowing alot about the post war world or the whole cold war mess i grew up in.
I plan on looking for that movie now to see how it holds up to the book.I saw an advert on the library website for Number the Stars about a Danish girl and her Jewish best friend during W.W.II and it reminded me of North To Freedom and so I had to re-read this one again.xoDaleB.xo
The main problem I have with I Am David is the lack of background information for the setting.
These questions drove me to distraction and made it very difficult for me to give my attention to the amazing journey (both developmental and physical) that David makes on his way to his final destination.I strongly feel that this novel has the potential to be placed in the category of "Great Literature" but only if in a future edition there is an adequate and expansive revelation of the background available to the readers who are not already familiar with it.
After seeing the same scenes, objects, and people every day for 12 years, what would you think of the world seeing it for the first time?
Armed with very little to help him survive his long journey to Copenhagen, Denmark, he learns so many things spiritually, physically, and mentally.
Along with learning new objects' and places' names, he learns to trust, love, and seek help for the first time.
Although he seemed to know so little about the world, he actually knew much more than an average adult because of his time spent in the concentration camp.
David is a boring protagonist who is unrelatable in any way and while he does have a excuse for being devoid of and personality which is being raised in a concentration camp but if it takes so long for him to develop any traits at all (which he dosent) then don`t write about him.
1 is you can judge a persons intelligence just by looking at them which he actually says in the book (which says something about his own intelligance) and that you must never except help or advice from anybody because there trying to alter who you are and brainwash you.
I was given this as a reader for a group of ten-year-olds and started to read it myself before I gave it to them.
I only read about half of it and gave up in disgust.
Needless to say I never gave it to the children.
We are never told why David is in the gulag; the implication being that children are banged up for nothing in Eastern Bloc countries.
David escapes to the West, where everyone has plenty of food and lives in a huge house.
They also have servants to do the work.
(Coughs!) So the servants don't count as people?
David's entire twelve-year life has been spent in a grisly concentration camp in Eastern Europe.
Sensing his enemies hot on his heels, David struggles to cope in this strange new world, where his only resources are a compass, a few crumbs of bread, his two aching feet and some vague advice to seek refuge in Denmark.
Is that enough to survive?David is a dynamic character.
He thinks of danger a lot and when he sees a baby, he is astonished at how helpless it is.
He charges the mother to take care of the baby because it is so small.
Juvenile, simplistic and dull. Not a fan. Full review to come.
Come to find out the book is a young adults novel so it was a really easy read, but that doesn't mean it's not filled with emotion and important situations.
When it comes to whether I like the book better or the movie I think it's about 50/50.
I liked the fact that in the book you know everything that David is thinking because it's narrated by him, you really find out how he feels about things and why he is the way he is.
I also feel that parts of the book seemed rushed through like there could have been more information but the author just left it out.
The story follows young David from his life in a eastern European concentration camp to freedom, traveling through Italy, Switzerland, Germany to Denmark.
Despite the rigors of life in a prison concentration camp, abandoned by his mother and seeing his only friend die, David is a kind person by nature who feels compelled to help people without asking for anything in return, although he does not consciously know all the time that by doing so, he is performing acts of kindness.
His valiant effort in saving a young Italian girl from a fire was truly heroic, but he has trouble overcoming the damage inflicted by the prison guards/life.
This was one of Heidi's books recommended for teen book club....I loved it and will consider it.Reread for teen club this Thursday, 9/27/12....very good!!!!! Should be great for our discussion....
This book was written over 50 years ago by an author who felt like kids needs literature that made them think and this was a good book for this purpose. Even though he's escaped from a concentration camp it's definitely a book you could read with kids.
David learns about all of the wonderful things that life has to offer from the family of Andrea and Maria.
In this last portion of the book David has gotten his picture taken, trapped by a farmer, made a new friend that is a dog, escaped soldiers, and has found his mom.
She offered him to come to her house, while there David looked at her photo album and sees a picture of a woman.
He meets a dog in the barn and later towards the end of the winter he escapes the barn by cutting through the wall and sneaking out without the farmer seeing him.
It shows the spiritual journey of discovery where, a twelve-year old boy David gradually loses his mistrust of humanity and beginds to smile, share, and eventually love.Seven years after the World War II, David is an escapee from the concentration camp in Bulgaria.
Johan, his friend and mentor in the camp, saved him from the bullet's wrath by snatching the bar of soap he stole from the officer, and eventually he (Johan) met his end.
The solitary journey of a lost, loveless, hopeless child from the stark brutalities of the concentration camp and its daily mind-numbing grind along the road to the colorful, stimulation, varied offerings and experiences is truly gut-wrenching and heart-warming.
Just that statement makes me cringe, how since even as a young boy, he was forced to suffer in the concentration camp.
Though David has suffered his saving grace is a man that gives him directions on escaping the camp and surviving outside of it.
This book reminds me of Night, by Elie Wiesel along with Hatchet, by Gary Paulsen.
The survival elements of Hatchet are evident as well as the horrors of Night.
Once David does escape from the evil concentration camp, he must survive in the European wilderness, alone.
Well, it would probably be impossible to have such a chance as we have been such a country, where David run away from, so to have such a book beeing published here would be impossible.
This book is a must for every child, I think, as David shows them, that it is important to go to school and learn new things to be able to make their own decisions, that it is important to treat everybody else like you would like to be treated by them.
I am David is a very well-written, captivating and very thought provoking story of David, a 12-year-old boy who is mysteriously given instructions about when and how to "escape" a concentration camp during World War II.
David is an unforgettable character in this absolutely unforgettable book!
Every once in a while you read a book with a character and story that you know you'll remember for life.
David is one of those characters and I am David is one of those books!
I HIGHLY recommend reading this book.
I'm serious, this book is a "must read"!
David succeeds but he now has no were to live he was too young to remember his mom, and he doesn't know his way.
The books like they say are always better than the movie.
In the movie he has a picture of his mom that will help him find her, but reading the book you don't have the picture.
So the movie makes it more obvious who she is.I highly recommend this book because not only is it a thrilly and interesting book, but its a true story.
This book tells many great story's in it and I know you'll like it.
About the cruelties of life, and about hope and love and what makes this world beautiful, and about doing things yourself, about keeping true to your identity.
It brings awareness to the "God of green pastures and still waters" - how strong God is, and how kind He is.
And it teaches you to never stop hoping, because just at the moment we need it most, miracles and grace is showered upon those whose help is in the God of green pastures and still waters.
All of the memories 12 year old David holds are of his life in a concentration camp.
One night, a guard (and man he hates) tells him how to escape and get to freedom.
This is only the first decision of many David must make on his journey north to freedom.I'm definitely going to recommend this to some of my younger readers.
I get a few requests for stories about kids *after* they escape or are released from concentration camps.
This will definitely be a good one for those kids.One thing to note, though, is that David does discover a relationship with God in this book.
I first read this as a young teen and remember being very touched by David's journey and the difficulties he faced along the way.
Reading again as an adult and being more aware of the WWII context, it's easy to see that the book presents a rather simplistic view – though still a worthwhile introduction for younger readers to this time period.
I also found the book a bit too sanctimonious second time around.
While it remains a touching and bittersweet tale, I'd say it's better read by the target audience rather than adults who will no doubt take a more cynical approach to proceedings.
