https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7673.Eaters_of_the_Dead
I have to confess, the first time I read this book I thought it was a real manuscript, and that Crichton was just putting it for us in book form...until I got to the epilogue.
That was when I understand that Crichton is an amazing story teller.Digging around, I found out that Crichton did the book out of a bet that he could not make Beowulf interesting.
Basically Beowulf.What I found truly captivating was that it was written as a manuscript.
Oi, Are you ready to ride towards Valhalla with mighty Viking warriors?  Step right into this ship, dear fellow.  “Animals die, friends die, and I shall die, but one thing never dies, and that is the reputation we leave behind at our death.”  In Eaters of the Dead, Crichton forms a holy matrimony between facts and legends, as he seamlessly combines the accounts of Ahmad ibn Fadlan, a famous 10th-century Arab traveler, with the legend of Beowulf, the Viking warrior who fought against the unholy
In Eaters of the Dead, Crichton forms a holy matrimony between facts and legends, as he seamlessly combines the accounts of Ahmad ibn Fadlan, a famous 10th-century Arab traveler, with the legend of Beowulf, the Viking warrior who fought against the unholy monsters.
The novel is structured as the account of Ibn Fadlan, who was traveling from Baghdad to Bulgaria.
Now, here is the fun part: As per Ibn Fadlan's eyewitness account, Vikings are extremely dirty and barbarous bunch, even according to 10th century standards.The history diverges into a "What if" story when Ibn Fadlan is forced to join warrior Buliwyf and his company's quest to the north.
Let me preface this review by saying Eaters of the Dead is not fantasy.
It seems often shelved by people as fantasy, but it is not.
There are some fantasy 'themes' eg the story is based on Beowulf, and that is all.
A whiff of potential fantasy that is no more than a whiff.I thoroughly enjoyed the book, although I think it should nearly be classed as a novella.
The movie The Thirteenth Warrior is a favourite of mine and I was pleased to see it did not drift too far from the book.
I have to give the book 5 stars.
But my husband had not seen “The 13th Warrior”, so we sat down to watch it the other day and I realized I had a copy of “Eaters of the Dead” somewhere, that was patiently waiting for me to get around to it… No time like the present!This book is a fictionalized account of (actual historical figure) Ibn Fadlan, an emissary of the Calif of Baghdad, sent on a diplomatic mission in northern Europe, and enlisted more or less against his will in an adventure to rid a Viking village of a mysterious an terrifying enemy.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، کتابی بود سراسر چرت و پرت و سرشار از خزعبلاتی که بیشتر به داستانهای خیالی و ترسناک شباهت دارد تا به یک سفرنامهنویسندهٔ این کتاب «مایکل کرایکتون» از نوشته هایِ خیالی و چرت و پرتِ یک تازی استفاده کرده و هدفش نوشتنِ کتابی خیالی بوده است... امّا عرب پرستانِ بی خرد، این کتاب را به عنوانِ سندی تاریخی قلمداد میکنندعزیزانم، یک عرب و تازی به نامِ «احمد بن فضلان» از سویِ خلیفهٔ بغداد مأمور میشود تا به عنوانِ سفیر به سویِ پادشاه بلغارستان برود... اما این عربِ خیال باف نزدیک به سه سال ناپدی
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، کتابی بود سراسر چرت و پرت و سرشار از خزعبلاتی که بیشتر به داستانهای خیالی و ترسناک شباهت دارد تا به یک سفرنامه‎نویسندهٔ این کتاب «مایکل کرایکتون» از نوشته هایِ خیالی و چرت و پرتِ یک تازی استفاده کرده و هدفش نوشتنِ کتابی خیالی بوده است...
جنگاوران از ترس دچارِ حالتِ تهوع شدند و با حالی دگرگون به زمین افتادند و من دریافتم که وحشتی عظیم بر آنها مستولی شده است‎عزیزانم و دوستانِ با شعور، دقت کنید این بیشعور چه خزعبلاتی به هم بافته است...
The style definitely was a plus this time, and Crichton imitated the real Ibn Fadlan's voice so thoroughly that the point where the historical manuscript ends (the first few chapters) and Crichton's novel begins is practically seamless.
He starts out as an outsider to the Viking band he's been drafted into, but by the end with Buliwyf's funeral, he is fully taking part in Viking rituals as a fellow warrior while still being a believing Muslim.I thought I'd be comparing this unfavorably to the movie the entire time I read it, but I found it just as enjoyable, even if it was quite different.
شيء رائع انك تكتشف ان مصدر كثير من شخصيات وانواع افلام وروايات الخيال العلمي مصدرها أو مستوحاة من مخ
This book was everything I have been looking for lately.Violence? Check.Great story but not overly done background stories nor weighed down by unnecessary details? Check (while I love these things usually, sometimes you gotta take a break).Motherfucking Vikings? Check(I really want to watch this show!!)This book was a lot different than his usual stuff that I have read, but still really enjoyable. Thanks Sarah! :D
I'd been wanting to read this book ever since I found out the movie The 13th Warrior was based on it.
I'm a fan of historical fiction and thought this would be right up my alley.
It was a decent read, shorter than I expected and better than the movie.
I love the blending at the start of real excerpts from an historical document with the fiction of Beowulf.
You didn't really care about any of the characters and the fighting and battles was over too quick.An airport thriller, this book is just something to eat some time without making you want to burn it later.
This is a retelling of Beowulf, in a first person, narrative, entertaining form.The narrator, Ibn Fadlan, is an actual Muslim writer from the 10th century.
Crichton then moves from there in to the fictional portion, using Fadlan as a first hand observer of the events surrounding the Beowulf story.Considering how dreadful Beowulf was (admittedly mainly due to barriers of time, language and perception of what is entertaining), Crichton has accomplished a very difficult task.
I don't remember if Beowulf did the same.Still, very well done, very entertaining and very good historical fiction.
THE 13th WARRIOR We come from the land of the ice and snow,From the midnight sun where the hot springs blow.The hammer of the gods will drive our ships to new lands,To fight the horde, singing and crying: Valhalla, I am coming!Page/Plant, Immigrant Song, 1970.The idea for the book came after Crichton heard his pal giving a lecture including Beowulf as among the Bores of Literature. Crichton notes in an appendix that the book is based partly on the Beowulf myth).The full name of this 1976 novel
After being made into a movie under the title, The 13th Warrior, the book was republished for a time under that name.The book is basically told as a edited translation of the account written by Ibn Fadlan, a Persian ambassador conscripted by a group of Vikings (probably from Sweden) as the 13th warrior in a hero's quest to save a northern kingdom from a group of "mist monsters" called "wendol," a group of vicious savages, perhaps surviving Neanderthals, who wear bear skins in battle.
After battling with the wendol (probably based, in part, on Grendel), they must fight Grendel's mother:I was somewhat disappointed by the lethargic lulls and the story's underdevelopment.
From a kind of historical perspective this is pretty interesting. From a reading standpoint, it was a bit boring. Maybe it is the writing style. I am not sure. But I can say, the movie adaptation is fun. I just don't really have a lot to offer here. It is not a terrible book, but it is not the most awesome read of the year. I am glad to have read it. Just meh.
This story speaks of one such seemingly unnatural pairing : an Arab in the land of the Vikings.
An Arab among the Vikings would have been a peacock in the land of penguins and it is exactly one such scenario that Crichton uses here.Do not let my earlier paragraph fool you for this is no cultural study.
Crichton relies on the travels of a man Ibn-Fadlan into the lands of the Vikings and mixes into it the soul of Beowulf.
There is also the fact that the narrator Ibn-Fadlan is a very prosaic and pragmatic narrator and at times his exploits read more like a trade agreement than a dramatic rendition of a bloody conflict.
Yes, it is absurd in a science fiction kind of way." But as you read on you think, "Holy crap!
Can this actually happen?" That is because Chriton is not afraid of explaining things to you.
Not only are you being entertained by Dino DNA, but you are kind of learning somthing.
He explains things in "Regular Joe" language.
The man was smart and hung out with smart people.Eaters of the Dead was not his original story.
I believe it was based on some ancient Arabian warrior's tale.
See "The 13th Warrior" (really violent) with Antonio Banderas.
That's the other thing about Chriton.
I'm currently reading "Dragon Teeth" which is written by "CrichtonSunLLC." (I don't know what that means). Anyway, had a flashback to "Eaters of the Dead" which at the time I thought was Crichton's weakest work. However, I just read a number of reviews, and I recently read the latest translation of "Beowulf": when I first read this, I didn't relate it at all to "Beowulf", but since Crichton is one of my favorite authors, it's time for a re-read of this one!
I liked the movie, and I like Crichton, but this structure isn't for me. Seems a bit self-indulgent. Shouldn't the story be the focus? Twenty pages of fake-real historical placement? Then just massive fast forwards? DNF.
I haven't read that yet, so I'm afraid I can't give you acomparison just yet.The Michael Crichton book here, is written - he says - in the style of Ahmed IF, to appear as if it is a complete, contemorary document of his travels to the meeting with the Viking Rus and onwards - or backwards - with them to confront the title's eaters of the dead.
What the book does, better than the film, is retain the sense of the Viking warriors Ahmed Ibn Fadlan met.They were shockingly different to him at the time and really should still be to us.
Adventurous, very Arabian Nights vibe. A normal protagonist, without any gimmicks and an Arab/Muslim hero, a rarity in Western mainstream culture. A Middle Eastern met the Northmen and everyone got along just fine and fought a COMMON enemy. No taunting and no one called anyone an apostate or an extremist. Haha. Take heed.
أجمل حاجة قرأتها في 2015 حتي الآن رغم حجمها الصغير
Обожавам такъв тип книги, а филмът ми е един от най-любимите. След като видях накрая на книгата проучванията на автора и тоновете книжа, които е изчел, за да проучи достатъчно добре животът и навиците на викингите разбрах защо книгата (дори и филмът) са толкова автентични и носят духа на севера. Голям поклон пред Крайтън.

What begins as a cold firsthand account of Viking culture becomes a terrifying experimental novel, as the prose gradually becomes less analytical and more eloquent. Crichton was an expert at blurring the lines between fact and fiction.
Genre: MythologyA very unique way to write a story, Crichton uses a mix of actual historical documentation and personalised fiction to blend two classic stories together into his own work of hitorical fantasy.
This book overlaps the stories of Beowulf and the documented adventures of historical writer Ahmed ibn Fadlan and merges them into an original story written in the style of Ibn Fadlan's travelogue.
What I think is great about this book is that Crichton ties the history so well together with the story that he wrote, which is why so many people discuss "is this a true story, or fiction".?
This is probably the most fun I've ever had reading a Crichton book!
The inspiration for the (similarly enjoyable) 1990s movie The Thirteenth Warrior, starring Tony Flags, this short, speedy novel purports to be a translation of a 10th Century Arabic text, and is full of "translator's notes" and "footnotes," in much the same way a real translated text is usually presented.
In that way, I was actually reminded of The Remains of the Day, where the aged butler often YES I JUST COMPARED MICHAEL FREAKING CRICHTON TO KAZUO ISHIGURO.
Eaters of the Dead: 2.5 starsI've only ever actually seen Crichton's work - The Andromeda Strain (the original, not the remake), Jurassic Park, The Great Train Robbery and The 13th Warrior (based on Eaters) - and, technically, I still haven't read him.
Based on this novel, I'll still not be reading him any time soon.Don't get me wrong: It's by no means a bad book.
Unfortunately, it allowed for little in the way of character development and (staying true to the conventions of medieval chronicles) left little room for the set pieces 21st century readers expect in an action novel.
Not always historically accurate, but definitely a quick and entertaining read. The concept of the book is interesting but I think I would have liked more detail, especially since the book echoes a lot of classical hero's journeys (especially Beowulf). I think perhaps I am not a fan of Crichton's writing, but I would definitely be interested in re-reading a re-vamped version by another author who really could've added a lot more historical and cultural details.
To be honest, if it wasn't for the factual note in the end, I would have rated it with 4 instead of 5. The storyline was great, the characters vivid and the vibe dark as it should have been. The ending was more abrupt than I should have wanted it to be.
Eaters of the Dead is the story of Ahmad Ibn Fadlan, an Arab emissary who, through an encounter with a group of Northmen, is appropriated into their company for a journey to defend against a 'nameless terror'.This was a reread for me, and as I have not read this book since I was in high school, practically like reading it anew.
Do not think ahead, and be cheerful by knowing that no man lives forever."One aspect that I find so endearing about this novel, and what makes it such a fun adventure is in watching the gradual disconnect between Fadlan and the Northmen dissolve into a tentative friendship forged in their shared experiences.
In the opening of this book written in 1976 Michael Crichton rightly critises the historians who discarded the role of the Vikings in Europe during their period of reign.
I had seen the movie based on this novel and was treated by some other viewers afterwards to the pub and half of them turned out to be historians and they were rather more positive on the subject of the role of the Vikings in Europe and Russia.
Ibn Fadlan is the protagonist through whom Michael Crichton tells the story.
I don’t know if I would have enjoyed this as much if I hadn’t been hearing/seeing Antonio Banderas as the narrator, Ahmed ibn Fadlan.
I enjoyed hearing the story from his point of view: an ambassador in the midst of warriors; a Muslim among Pagans.
The book has dwarves that are missing from the movie, but the movie has more humor, plus it has a more elegant version of the “Viking prayer”:Lo, there do I see my father.Lo, there do I see my mother,and my sisters, and my brothers.Lo, there do I see the line of my people,Back to the beginning.Lo, they do call to me.They bid me take my place among them,In the halls of ValhallaWhere the brave may live forever.
