https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1227072.The_Honey_Tree
Milne published his first book 1905 it was called Lover in London he wrote a book of poems called “When We Were Very Young” published in 1924.
Milne decided to write one last book about lovable bear called “The house at pooh corner”.
Despite his reputation as a children’s author, Milne continue to write for adults.
Also the adventure part of this book can grab the children’s attention.
Teacher can ask children what the consequences of overindulgences, such as eating too much candy or watching too much TV.
Then, teacher can help children make a list of healthy food.
Read for a topic read. I remember seeing the story on the tv but never read the book. Brought back nostalgic memories.
Comme ci, comme ca. A sort of Disneyfied version of Pooh. Milne's originals are far superior.
Charming story. You can see the end come before you get there, but at a mere 24 pages it does not have a chance to get tedious.
GB 93
Winnie's addiction to honey15 November 2013 Well I had a look at the picture on the back of this book which has a train (being pulled by Tootle – I vaguely remember Tootle) and the train had all of these characters that appeared in the Little Golden Books (though Big Bird was a little too big for the train, so he had to walk along beside it). Anyway, the characters come from a whole range of places, including Disney, however the interesting thing that I noticed was that all of the Sesame Street
Anyway, the characters come from a whole range of places, including Disney, however the interesting thing that I noticed was that all of the Sesame Street characters were all noted as being owned by Muppets Inc, which I something that I probably did know, though it was most likely buried deep in my brain.
As for this book, well, I never had much to do with Winnie the Pooh when I was a kid, and I really don't know much about his antics beyond his addiction to honey.
I have tried drinking tea with honey in it before any it does not taste anything like tea with sugar in it.
This classic story of Winnie the Pooh is a great story full of humor and adventure to delight young readers.
Pooh's adventure teaches children to live in moderation and respect mother nature.
This story is a great book for early to intermediate readers as it uses more complete sentence structure than early reading children's books.
Winnie the Pooh's story teaches creative problem solving, respectfulness of nature, and moderation for students and children alike.
This story is a classic for all ages, as the iconic and whimsical Winnie the Pooh entertains all of his readers.
Winnie the Pooh will never be a bad reading choice if you are looking for an overall good, solid, positive short story to read to either your children or any child at all within pre-school and 2nd grade.
Pooh is the perfect example and role model for any young child for a plethora of reasons: he's extremely humble, he's caring and thoughtful 150% of the time, he thinks about everyone else before he thinks about himself and does whatever he can to help out any of his friends or acquaintances in his little town.
I loved all of the Pooh books growing up and I am sure that my children and future students will as well!
This is the Disneyfied version of Milne's classic story. But it is at least his original text. The book is quite cute, and Pooh is never a great thinker. The biggest problem I have with this edition is that the text is microscopic. It is very hard to read, and in dim light the text vanishes. My 5-year-old daughter was having a hard time reading the simple text because she kept losing her place.
Aah classic Winnie the pooh. You can always count on him having an adventure and in this case he is aiming high to get Honey his favorite treat. This book is a fiction and a classic it contains the elements of adventure and it funny at the same time. Winnie the pooh has always been a very determined character which is always good for a children to be exposed to.
Good book to read during break time or a chill time. It's funny in a way because you could see Poon doing this in your head. Pooh is a great character for your first and second graders because he is a character they actually look up to. They all know a bear flying by a balloon is just silly, but his way of thinking out the plan will be comical to them.
Love Little Golden Books and love Winnie the Pooh. Pooh is trying to get some honey and devises a plan to float up with a balloon. Christopher Robin is there to help and I love his, "Silly old bear" comment.
Winnie the Pooh is a good series of books for children to start with when reading because it is full of imagination and fun. This particular book reminds you that if you try your hardest, sometimes you can still fail, but you should never give up on that dream.
I just read this to my kids. They have so many books that just don't offer anything. Not only did they enjoy this story so did I. I laughed a couple of times and you have to love the philosophy of Pooh. And, I love honey too.
This is the longest book I can get my 2 year old to sit through. It helps that the illustrations look just like the 1977 Disney movie and the story is familiar to him. Cute enough book, my son seems to like it.
I'm really not a big Winnie the Pooh fan, but I did laugh at the "Pooh Coo Clock."
WAY WHEN I WAS YOUNGER I USED TO READ BOOKS LIKE THIS FOR BED TIME STORYS..LOL
fgbytu
Another Whinnie the pooh. A sweet, lovely bear who makes us laugh and reminds us of how sweet the honey is and how good it tastes.
I remember the cover but just not the story
Winnie the Pooh - plus the songs too!
Another book from my childhood - I remember reading it over and over. I love that I've been able to share this one with our girls, too.
Most likely without a doubt the most well-known Pooh book. I love this classic story. I always get cheered up by Pooh and how funny the story really is!
A classic children's tale that's a must read for all parents to their children. It will bring joy for years to come.
Great book abut bears
dont eat too much. you will get fat and stuck in a tree.
Tut, tut, it looks like rain.
A gift from Abuela for Christmas, the boys love the whole set.
I think it's dishonest to call this A.A.Milne's book, when this is really the version that Disney stole and touched up. I'll take the real thing, thank you.
family favoriteThis would make a lovely addition to everyone's personal library.
