https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248170.It_s_Always_Something
Gilda talks about her love for Gene and how she got her start in show business, but most of the book is about her experiences dealing with cancer.
Also highly recommended for anyone who loved Gilda or Gene.Favorite Quote"I had wanted to wrap this book up in a neat little package about a girl who is a comedienne from Detroit, becomes famous in New York, with all the world coming her way, gets this horrible disease of cancer, is brave and fights it, learning all the skills she needs to get through it, and then, miraculously, things are neatly tied up and she gets well ...
Like my life, this book has ambiguity.
Oh she was funny!When she first found out she was diagnosed with cancer, Gilda set out to write a book about how she beat the disease.
The book starts out on such a positive note as this lovely, strong, courageous, and hilarious woman faces the roller coaster.But things go wrong.
Soon she comes to realize that she is not writing a book about beating cancer, she is writing a memoir of her death for those who may find themselves following her.
Read this book and you will know he loves her still.
One of the most heartbreaking but strong books I've ever read. What an emotional roller coaster. Gilda was an amazing woman!
Hmm. So many people love this book.
I had been meaning to read it for years.
I loved Gilda's comedy on SNL and knew the gist of her story.
I wanted to learn more about her formative years, more about her life before cancer, and much less about her co-dependency issues.
I don't mean to downplay her courageous and heartbreaking battle with cancer or her foundation legacy.
I wasn't expecting much humor, but at least a better book, and while I appreciate that she told her story, it just left me saying "meh".
After reading the Gene Wilder book, I re-read the Gilda Radner one. They had completely different descriptions of their relationship. The author uses quips of her dry humor but also talks about memory loss and then goes on to describe things that happened. Kind of a sad read.
Not only was she one of the funniest people on earth when she was with us, she was also extremely wise.
Gilda Radner tells about her battle with Ovarian cancer.I loved Gilda in her many characters of SNL and enjoyed her in a few movies. I loved her sense of humor. I was saddened when she died and when I found a paperback book called "It's Always Something" I got it. Of course, I got it years ago and only now read it. It was a hard book to read, finding out about the pain and suffering she went through.
That didn't happen and I was vaguely disappointed.But over time I've come to appreciate it for the less-is-more version of truth: there aren't always tidy endings.
Sometimes Zen moments are what sustain us:Buddha told a parable in sutra:A man traveling across a field encountered a tiger.
Coming to a precipice, he caught hold of the root of a wild vine and swung himself down over the edge.
Trembling, the man looked down to where, far below, another tiger was waiting to eat him.
The man saw a luscious strawberry near him.
Grasping the vine with one hand, he plucked the strawberry with the other.
If you read it as a journal of someone who has cancer and is sifting through feelings arising from that, it is hopeful at times and disparaging at others.
At that level, it is completely, brutally honest in its portrayal of a cancer victim.
She tends to ramble and switch directions in a lot of places, which again is okay if you are reading it as a journal.At a personal level, I found that I'm not sure I would actually like Gilda as a friend.
She was definately obsessive-compulsive, and probably bi-polar as well, and that was before she had cancer.
I couldn't put this book down even though I know Gilda's life ended.
In fact, people going through cancer need it to be funny sometimes.
What I might have overlooked though, was the need for patients and their families to talk about their hopes and fears.
We need more of that: patients, families, counselors, nurses, and doctors talking about what it is like to live with cancer.
Please read this book to get an inside look at the ups and downs of what cancer can do to a person as strong and as wacky as Gilda.
I loved Gilda Radner as a comedienne, and I was heartsick during her battle with cancer, and I greatly admired her honesty and openness in revealing that she had ovarian cancer.
Sadly, as I understand it, ovarian cancer is still often misdiagnosed, then diagnosed after women have suffered greatly, physically and emotionally).
Radner was extremely gifted, bright, and admirable, and she certainly didn't have to be a good writer outside of comedic writing (which isn't even to say that she doesn't manage quite a few humorous touches in her book).
As alot of celebrity books do, this one reveals more about the author's life than she may have intended.
But it also shows glimpses of her husband's (Gene Wilder) struggle, his exhaustion and gives some idea of what it must be like for the family of cancer sufferers.
It's discouraging how different her experiences were with the more middle class majority of cancer patients.
I think Gilda's story is an inspiration to many with cancer, but most folks will not have her experiences because their background is so different from that of a successful Hollywood celebrity.
I loved Radner's comedic writing in this because it felt like she was talking to me about all the crazy little things that would cross her mind as she tried to work through her experience with Cancer.
I learned a lot about Cancer and for whatever reason at that time in my life, I was forever altered because what seemed to me like one of the scariest things to ever experience, she turned into a great healing journey that she chose to share with anyone who wanted to read it.
Objectively, this was not a brilliantly written book.
Radner does a lot of telling instead of showing; I did this, then I did that...But that's understandable.
And despite that, this book moved me more than any I can think of.
I suffered every setback and celebrated every gain.
This book, while it is her story, is also the story of anyone who has endured the horrors of disease and the importance of fighting every single step of the way.
This book is 269 pages of fighting and half a page written by Gene Wilder after the fight was over.
What a courageous, brave, funny woman Gilda Radner was. This story is touching, funny, and completely breaks your heart. The new edition, which goes on to explain that not longer after writing this, she passed, will make you cry. One of the first books I can remember crying over. Years later, when I go back to re-read a story of a smart, funny, brave woman, I always read this.
I read this right before reading Gene Wilder's autobiography. Seems like they had different views of their relationship. Quick read, interesting.
A funny lady tells the story of her not-so-funny battle with ovarian cancer, which she ultimately lost. I borrowed this book from one of my Middle School colleagues.
I read this book as slowly as I could, relishing each and every word.
Gilda was diagnosed with Ovarian Cancer right after my step-daughter.
Gilda was given a very low chance of making it: 20% , I think.
My step-daughter was given a 10% chance of survival.
I couldn't read this book.
My step-daughter, without all of Gilda's money and resources, lived 25 years with her Ovarian Cancer.
Reading Gilda's book was a trip down memory lane.
She did an excellent job of telling us what her life was like as a result of the cancer diagnosis.
I miss you being on this earth.....just as I miss my step-daughter.
You'd expect a comedienne to publish a funny book, and Radner did try to inject humor into this work, but cancer is seriously unfunny, and this book is more about the everyday challenge of coming to grips with the reality of living with a disease you have little control over.At the time this book came out, my mother's best friend was also diagnosed with ovarian cancer.
The trick in getting through life - whether you have cancer or not, is to appreciate the good things in it and not dwell on what you don't have.Six years ago my best friend died of leukemia.
Now I've learned, the hard way, that some poems don't rhyme, and some stories don't have a clear beginning, middle, and end.
But her spontaneity, honesty and sincerity brings you to the exact threshold of pain, angst, mortality, her clinginess to hope, positivism, life, love, fame, and how quick she melts down when face to face with reality .
To this day, cancer remains to massacre the human spirit.
And Gene Wilder, the love of her life, re-married, two years after her passing.
Impatient with an ending, a story i don't even know how to begin again.
Now I've learned the hard way that some poems don't rhyme, and some stories don't have a clear beginning, middle, and end."Book jacket.The world fondly remembers the many faces of Gilda Radner: the adamant but misinformed Emily Litella; the hyperkinetic Girl Scout Judy Miller; the irrepressibly nerdy Lisa Loopner; the gross-out queen of local network news, Rosanne Rosannadanna.
A supremely funny performer, Gilda lost a long and painful struggle in May 1989 to "the most unfunny thing in the world"--cancer.
This is Gilda's last gift to us: the magnificent final performance of an incomparable entertainer whose life, though tragically brief, enriched our own lives .
Read through this in a few hours Saturday evening; I'd bought it some time ago & decided to review it after listening to Gene Wilder's autobiography Kiss Me Like a Stranger.
Gilda's book focuses on her marriage to Gene and her subsequent fight with cancer, with occasional flashbacks to childhood and her career with Saturday Night Live - I would have liked more material from this time period.
It was difficult at times to read about Gilda's highs and lows in her cancer fight and the hopeful end to the story; knowing that in the end, she lost.
This is an important book to read but maybe not one I should have read while my mom is also sick and experiencing some similar situations although way more advanced treatments.
The one thing that bothered me was the way Gilda felt the need to yell and scream about her upcoming treatments and doctor appts and hospital stays.
Since my mom's diagnosis, my mom has never yelled or screamed and barely cried.
I did appreciate Gilda's honsety and appreciation about being a celebrity and having the means to have great care and around the clock nursing staff.
I really like Gilda Radner and admired her as a fine comedianne.
Her death saddened me- a tragic waste of talent for her to die so young.
And can you imagine the talent a child of Gilda and Gene Wilder might have had?This book focused mostly on her struggles with her health and the diagnosis of cancer.
I had been hoping for a book with more of a slant on her comic life, but found this one very moving, intimate, and honest.
I am a nurse and also have a chronic illness that forced many changes upon my life and our family.
It is the description of Gilda Radner's last five years of life from her marriage to Gene Wilder, infertility treatment, and ultimately ovarian cancer and cancer treatment.
She describes her ups and downs and reactions to her different treatments.
She really makes it clear that being optimistic and having a team of encouraging professionals and friends and family make all the difference.
I got the impression that she finished writing the book while she still had hope and things were getting better, which was nice.
There was a final poem that Gene added after her funeral.
Most of us fell in love with the funny characters she created.
The book isn't great literature, but it is another look into the life of the celebrity we didn't see on the boob tube.
Many of us, me too, are afraid of even the thought of cancer....the big C....but some of us will have to deal with it either directly or because someone we love is dealt a bad hand in the card game of life.
If the heavy weight of cancer or some other terrible disease lands on me, I hope I can be as strong as she.....mgc
It's Always Something by Gilda Radner (Harper Collins Publishers 2007)(Biography).
Gilda Radner was an irrepressibly hilarious comedienne who burst onto the scene in the 1970's with the premiere of Saturday Night Live.
Gilda was the goofy little girl who made you laugh until your sides hurt.
She brought to life a number of characters that are still funnier than anything SNL has come up with since.
She was Lisa Loopner, Judy the Girl Scout, Roseanne Roseannadana, Baba Wawa, and many more.
She died of cancer in May of 1996.
The world is a more somber place without her.
Of all the books, articles and stories I've read or heard about cancer...Gilda's is the ONLY one I can relate to.
It's like she was writing my words!
Sometimes word for word!
She describes perfectly, my cancer experience.
The ugliness.
The horror.
The anger.
The rage.
And then trying to find ways to turn it into something good for others.
I feel like Gilda and I are Kindred Spirits.
I was so grateful to find her book when I needed it, in amongst all the Pollyanna Positive Crap books written about cancer, this one tells it like it is.
Thank you Gilda.
I love Gilda Radner. She was the funniest. This book is great because it has great stories of times we may have all watched on tv. But not just that. She tells about how she is strong but unsure of herself, happy but unfulfilled, and sick but alive. Luckily she found the love of her life and had a rock to lean on when she needed it. She tells of her battle with cancer and all the different treatments she tried. She was not always brave and sometimes downright stubborn. Her star is still shining.
This was really good, but by the very nature of it, pretty sad. Radner tells the story of her cancer battle with such painful honesty, that it's sometimes hard to read, if only because it gives a glimpse into what she went through.It's also refreshing to hear about her early career and how she got her start with comedy and SNL. It gives more insight into some of her famous characters, and reflection on the nature of her relationship with Gene Wilder.Recommended for comedy fans, cancer reads, wellness communities.
