https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29749098-catwoman
How many times do you guys bet Maas is going to have Catwoman purr her dialogue...EDIT: I say this affectionately btw! It's possible to laugh at something you love.
Let Gotham City enjoy its final days of Summer. This book has journeyed with me across two continents and five different countries while I've been travelling the last few weeks. I don't normally read books this slowly, but it was a strangely positive experience. I enjoyed slipping in and out of Selina's plotting and thieving, and I eventually found myself trying (and failing) not to cry on a train to Prague.Yes. Catwoman + Sarah J. Maas does not exactly sound like a recipe for tears, but this b
Maas does not exactly sound like a recipe for tears, but this book got me good.I do have to issue a couple of warnings - 1) I'm not a typical Maas fan.
I don't recommend this book for those who like strict adherence to the canon.But I actually really enjoyed it.
A couple of years later and Selina is back with multiple secret identities and assassins on her tail.She teams up with Harley Quinn and Poison Ivy (who is the shining star of the novel) and causes chaos.
Update: Here's all 3 books I just had to get and I got some goodies for pre-ordering =) The picture is a little blurry.
I don't know what I was doing!
Listened to my audio edition this morning.
The special editions will be coming later.
I will add pics when I feel like getting on the computer again.
With these wonderful cancer treatments over the past few months, I haven't been on the computer.
And I only really care about sharing pretty pictures any more.
Cancer changed everything and woke me upMel ❤️Thank you to those that are still around.
I just have one complaint/request can SJM please write a Batman book!!!!
SJM not only did a great job on Catwoman/Selina/Holly but used other classic Gotham villains and side characters perfectly.
I think having Catwoman running circles around the new kid of the Bat family was a great idea, as we Batman fans know this would never happen to the man himself.
This is definitely the best of the DC Icons books so far, and I cannot think of a better incarnation of Catwoman.
That wasn't cool and I apologize BUT after this book and after Kingdom of Ash I think I’m just going to cancel SJM because I just can’t anymore.~ SPOILERS BUT THIS REALLY NEEDS TO BE READ BECAUSE SOME OF THE STUFF COULD BE VERY HARMFUL TO YOU~Issue One: Selina and Luke both have PTSD.
Poison Ivy I loved, don’t get me wrong, she is the main LGBT character in this book (yes there is LGBT rep and it’s actually good!) and it wasn’t a poor me story like ACOWAR.
4 popular YA writers each writing a Superhero novel??? HELL YES, TAKE MY MONEY!!!!!!!Publishing in 2017:Wonder Woman by Leigh BardugoBatman by Marie LuSuperman by Matt de la PenaCatwoman by Sarah J Maas
Speaking of those authors, they are all big names in the industry and they all were below their average in this series.🌟 If you have read SJM other books then you know that she has a good writing style but there are sometimes many repetitions and it sometimes gets on my nerves, but what I like about Sarah is that she listens to the readers.
I liked many parts of the stories and that Sarah is trying to improve her writing.
This book reads as though SJM skimmed Selina's wikipedia page and was like, "all right.
Selina wouldn't even steal in the beginning of the novel because she "didn't want to risk jail" like,,, did SJM just make up her own OC orSelina isn't even called Catwoman because she's a cat burglar in this!!!
I'll try to explain this sans-spoilers.At one point, both Ivy and Selina want to steal a painting.
(view spoiler)[At the end Ivy just brushes Selina's betrayal off and is like "i know you used harley and i to save your sister selina but it's ok!!!!
I want this in my life. I need this in my life. Shut up and take my money. *throws dollar bills at Sarah Maas*Catwoman is my absolute favorite female comic character. She is my queen.   I've never read anything by this author, but I am willing to give her the benefit of the doubt. Not so sure about Batwing though. Catwoman belongs with Batman. Don't even argue with me on this.  I guess we will have to wait and see.
05/08/2018 — My child has been dispatched and should be ready to collect from the store any day now. I can’t wait to hold her! 😭•20/11/2017 — HOLY SYNOPSIS! I AM IN NEED!!! •Let's be real: Sarah J Maas is going to fuckin deliver with this book! I AM READY GIVE IT TO ME! 😍
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestLmao, I seem to have lost a few friends over this review already. On to the books-that-made-me-lose-friends shelf it goes! #YOLO #UMadBro #WhateverIReadWhatIWantDNF @ p. 121 I get into a lot of trouble with people when I tell them, in all seriousness, that Batman & Robin is my favorite Batman movie. I know it's bad in the same way that the Super Mario Bros. movie is bad, and I love that movie too. Some of the people I tell this to try t
Worse than that garbage, EMPIRE OF STORMS, even.Maas turned CATWOMAN into one of those broken women who become bad-assed because they're damaged (she's literally implied to be a teen prostitute on welfare who fights in a street gang and steals to help her sick sister).
also, do my nails look okay?" Like, fucking spare me.Maas also totally ruins Harley Quinn AND Poison Ivy. Poison Ivy was always so seductive and independent, and say what you like about the Batman & Robin movie (just remember: I will fight you), but Uma Thurman TOTALLY nailed that vampy, bad-ass role.
I feel similarly about this book as I did about Wonder Woman: Warbringer and Batman: Nightwalker.
Even though all three were written by different authors, their writing styles and narration styles are similar.
That’s the thing—I don’t feel enough of the author in these books.
That’s why I can’t bring myself to give any of these books four or five stars even if the story holds together.
All in all not at all a bad book but I do wish the writing style had been less generic and for a deeper connection to Selina to have been possible.

So you know Sarah's Catwoman is going to have great outfits. (I had a smirky emoji here but GOODREADS WILL NOT ALLOW IT.)It'll also be good to see her write a standalone.
Yes hello, I'm not here to debate the author or anything I just want to know what the fuck is going on with that cover.IT LOOKS LIKE WORD ART
The story opens with Selina at 17 years, working as a Leopard in Gotham's underbelly, she's also fully responsible for, Maggie, her younger sister, who is terminally ill.
Fast forward three years and Selina is back in Gotham posing as, Holly Vanderhees, a wealthy heiress, and fortunately (or not), her new neighbour is none other than Luke Fox (aka Batwing).
Batwing, the Gotham underbelly, and the LoA.
Overall, with the exception of Luke Fox, the characters were fully nuanced, the plot had a steady and ultimately satisfactory progression and conclusion.
Luke, on the other hand, needs to turn in his Batwings!
im not even gonna pretend to be an objective reviewer who dissects and rates books according to the elements of the bookhell nah, im gonna review this purely on how it made me feel which was effing fantastic. catwoman is an evil queen, i absolutely adore her character. luke is an adorable baby. IVY AND HARLEY IM SCREAMING WHAT A TRIO OF ICONSthis book wasn't perfect but goodness i loved every fast paced, well-built moment of it. im actual trash
Catwoman? Sarah J. Maas?Puuuuuuuuurrrrrrrfect ;) Sorry, I had to.
A Young Adult novel version of Catwoman, written by Sarah J.
Leave those badass girls alone!!!(Link: https://giphy.com/gifs/catwoman-RO6yV...)Just for the record: at this point, I only want to cry for poor Catwoman.Now, I must also cry for Ivy and Harley.*goes to sit in a dark corner and cries*PS: more bad news is rolling in!
Last week I also found out according to the premise of the upcoming Batman YA novel (by Marie Lu), the barely-18-years-old-Bruce Wayne is going to do community service in the mother freaking Arkham Asylum!
(Source: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...)PSS: even more bad news is rolling in!
*facepalms*(link: https://giphy.com/gifs/wetv-no-facepa...)
A book that promised feminism and a kickass plotline was flat and used PTSD and abuse as a plot device to push forward the weak story.
I don’t think the friendships created between these characters were well done, which was frustrating, but they were there and I guess there was an attempt made.My least favourite about this book, if you had no idea yet, was the PTSD.
I would say that only Luke experiences PTSD throughout this book, but in an underlying way, you could also say that Selina does as well.
The way Sarah J Maas dealt with PTSD throughout Catwoman: Soulstealer kind of made me feel like she had no idea what she was doing.
Wonderwoman, Leigh Bardugo: I didn't even try to read it because my thoughts were biased since I hated Wonderwoman's character (comics, show, movie...) And I'm not a fan of Bardugo.
But here we are, and this book almost came out a week ago so I thought it was time to bitter: The MC (can't even remember her name, that's how memorable she is) is just basic and sexist and mean, so your average YA main character.
There's this thing with SJM books that I've noticed, she doesn't just make a plot, like any competent writer, no.
i marked this as 'currently reading' but never actually started it, since i haven't had time, but now im actually starting it. wow i wish myself luck cause this book's reviews are not...looking...good.my copy has arrived and all i’ve been hearing is that this book truly just sucks so i wanna read it even more to see how much of a trashy book this is but idk if i have to read wonder woman and batman before??? someone please tell me 5/22/16I NEVER KNEW I WANTED THIS
This review can also be found on my blog,  Where the Words Take Me .I won this ARC of Catwoman: Soulstealer from a giveaway on Tumblr, but I still want to thank the publisher for providing this for early-ish reviews.The bad cover aside, I think some part of me was still hoping that Sarah J. Maas could at least pull off a standalone book, especially since it was a book featuring characters that aren’t her own. That being said, DC is my preferred comic book universe, and Batman especially means so
(I won't even get into how laughable it is to picture Selina working for Falcone in the first place as one of his glorified cronies instead of just taking what she wants, but I digress.)That was strike one.The only thing about the first part I liked was Maggie and Selina’s relationship.
Maas tries to explain, but it doesn’t add up, especially once Selina starts thinking she wants to upend Gotham society and let the supervillains know that Batwing can’t measure up now that Batman is away.
Turns out I can actually love Sarah J Maas's protagonist as long as she doesn't spend the entire book trying to tell me how awesome she is.
And as a devout fan of the Batman universe, and as someone who has read the many different versions of Catwoman, Batwing, Poision Ivy and Harley Quinn, I can truthfully say that Maas's versions of these characters are not an accurate representation of what you've seen previously on TV and in the comics.
When social services comes to know about their living situation, Selina makes a deal which involves leaving her life behind for two years in order to train with The League of Assassins.
When I received this news, I died and went to YA heaven. Sarah J. Maas is probably my favourite YA author and Catwoman is one of my favourite comic women, so the mere thought of SJM writing about Selina Kyle made me the happiest person in the world.Just imagine the darkness, the worldbuilding, the baddassery and the feels we'll get from this!!!THANK YOU, YA GODS, THANK YOU.
Catwoman sweetie you don't deserve this I'm sorry
I seriously enjoyed this book! I’ve seen some mixed reviews but that happened with the other two books of the series and I enjoyed them also, so it did not stop me from reading. I am glad of that also because I actually liked this one more than the other two. The story was addicting and the characters were awesome to read about. I Loved it! My quick and simple overall: fun take on Catwoman!
The first one is that there is one scene in this book in which I think Batwing should've easily been able to figure out who Catwoman is and I just think it was a bit unrealistic that he didn't get it.
The other reason is that I overall just still enjoyed "Wonderwoman: Warbringer" a tad bit more than this book.
Nevertheless, this was one of the best books I've read in quite some time now and I really hope Maas will write a sequel at some point because the ending was a little too open for my liking and I definitely need to know what will happen next!instagram || my blog || twitter
Se menciona a Batman y hay un personaje de conexión, pero no nos cuentan nada de la anterior historia, y bueno, ya con Wonder Woman no tiene nada que ver.
No sé cuánto ha cogido de la historia que todo el mundo cree conocer, y eso para mí le da puntos porque jamás pensé en este personaje como un antihéroe (no puedo llamarla villana porque no lo es) en lugar de un superhéroe :O y eso ¡me ha flipado!
Si hay algo que definen los libros de esta autora, son sus personajes grises llenos de matices, unos personajes capaces de todo por conseguir sus mayores deseos.
Wonder Woman: Warbringer by Leigh Bardugo ★★★Batman: Nightwalker by Marie Lu ★★★★Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Tumblr | Youtube | Twitch
