https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5128.The_Doors_of_Perception_Heaven_and_Hell
Why, after all, should one need to starve or abase oneself for months and years to achieve such states when the same experience, or a reasonable simulacrum, can be had for the cost of a drug and perhaps a mild hangover?Heaven and Hell goes on to develop this thesis by comparing the visions induced by exogenous chemicals to the more visionary pieces of art throughout history, as well as elaborating on the religio-spiritual theme.
But keep your browser near at hand, because many of his points are utterly lost without knowing the art to which he refers.Finally, it is this very lack of illustration, and internal referencing for the modern reader, that prompts me to deduct one star from what would otherwise be a truly stellar recommendation.
همانطور که از نام کتاب مشخص است، پس از مصرف، جهان برای هاکسلی همان جهان است، اما کیفیت ادراک وی در مواجهه با طبیعت و همچنین صنایع دست انسان، نظیر موسیقی و نقاشی دچار تغییرات وسیعی شده استتوصیفات هاکسلی از شفافیت و درخشش مناظر و نور در این کتاب، با بخشی از توصیفات مربوط به بهشت در مسیحیت و اسلام شباهت زیادی داردبخش دوم کتاب، بهشت و دوزخ، علمی و به قدر کافی مستند به نظر نمی رسد.نویسنده در این بخش به تشریح قسمتی از ناخوداگاه انسان که با تجربیات عرفانی و رویابینی ها در ارتباط است می پردازد.
The Doors of Perception consists, in its first part, of Huxley recounting his experiences on the drug, and in its second, shorter half of an argument for the usage of psychedelic drugs in order to "ooze past the reducing valve of brain and ego, into consciousness." It's an incredibly fascinating essay.
The function of the brain and the nervous system is to protect us from being overwhelmed and confused by this mass of largely useless and irrelevant knowledge, by shutting out most of what we should otherwise perceive or remember at any moment, and leaving only very small and special selection which is likely to be practically useful."As such, the consciousness we experience has gone through a "reducing valve", so that our experience of consciousness does not overwhelm us.
Reading “The Doors of Perception” is like this - Aldous Huxley does mescaline and then describes it extensively to the bored reader who is probably not on mescaline.
And it’s not nearly as fascinating as Huxley believes it to be - because we’re probably not on mescaline (I know I wasn’t when reading this crap).
The point of the essays is that Huxley believes there is more to human nature than the base level of survival and that it’s because of how our species has developed that has made us forget ways in which we can perceive things beyond the ordinary.
Drugs and transcendence/life in general had always have much in common, but his way of preaching is exactly like what his drug encounter warns him against.The description of his adventure would be much more revealing, if it hadn't elevate into a lecture about two ancient categories of being, one experienced through our everyday life, where language represents a barrier between us and the world, and the other one of true essence that can be reached only through some transcendental activity such as taking drugs.
He makes a paradigm of pure being out of it, which selfless as it is, is based on one sole experiment of his humble self.
'There are things known and there are things unknownand in between are the doors'; The Doors of Perception.
Why should you read it?
2. If you want an insight into psychedelics.
If you want to know about the 'unknown' and its difference with the 'known'.4.
If you want to know what is the difference between a deranged ( schizophrenic) and a normal brain and what defines a brain, normal and labels a visionary, mad?
5. If you want to read the richness of the text used to describe the philosophical treatment of the mystical experience.
7. Lastly, If you want to 
DOORS OF PERCEPTION
He argues (quite correctly) that a massive part of the function of the brain is to selectively discard sensory input, keeping only what is important in the here and now and relates to our immediate survival ability.
The effect of mescalin, as also felt through sensory deprivation, oxygen starvation, hypnosis, and other sources, is to bypass the "brain valve" and receive more of the "useless information".
And it is through that that we can perceive ourselves as we truly are, part of the All.In Heaven and Hell, the follow up essay to Doors of Perception, Aldous Huxley revisits the topic of visions in the context of the social and spiritual import of these experiences.
This book consists of two essays by Aldous Huxley. Short philosophical essays. The main one is Huxley's description about his Mescaline trip and his reaction to various forms of pictures paintings while he is on Peyote. Interesting counterculture book that I can see the aspect of why it was a popular book in the 1960s.
A book about hallucinogenic drugs and altered mind-states written by author of famed science fiction novel Brave New World (which, as of writing, I have yet to read).
Being that I have dabbled in the use of psychedelics and studied countless writings on hallucinogens and alteration of mind-states, a topic that greatly fascinates me, not to mention my love for sci-fi, I really expected more from this.
This is why many great musicians or artists are greatly, even directly, influenced by drugs, because with drugs they see things in a new light that many people never noticed before due to the routine of conventional thinking, which makes their art appear to be fresh and unique.
The second is that it shaped the views of many people about drugs for 20 years.Aldous Huxley came from a scientific as well as a creative background.
For me, it gave him some level of credibility when assessing the merits of psychedelic drugs.
Basically, (I think) he argued that the psychedelic experience could open the doors of additional powers of perception, over and above the rational.
Towards the end of his life Aldous Huxley was introduced to psychedelics, still legal at that time.
His analyses of the phenomenon are detailed in these two essays here combined in one volume.
For further reading about his relationship to such drugs see, of course, the various biographies about Huxley, particularly Huxley in Hollywood, and his wife's collection of essays by and about him and these drugs entitled Moksha.
My first from Huxley and I imagine he represents the best of what a liberal education used to teach, a broad and deep knowledge of the humanities, art and psychology.
His main thesis is that the our consciousness is absolutely stifled by the narrow window through which we learn, created by our educational system and the reductionist thinking of modern science.
Huxley details his experiences after consuming peyote, and comes up with rather startling observations, primarily through the enhancement of “seeing” without preconceptions (or abstract reasoning, as we normally comprehend visual perceptions, constricted by words and ideas).
The Doors of Perception & Heaven and Hell, Aldous Huxley عنوان: درهای ادراک بهشت و دوزخ؛ نویسنده: آلدوس هاکسلی؛ پیشگفتار: جی.جی. بالارد؛ مترجم: مهناز دقیق نیا؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، میر کسری، 1381، در 128 ص، شابک: ایکس - 964744902؛ عنوان دیگر: بهشت و دوزخ؛ موضوع: داروهای توهمزا، مسکالین، رویت
He also discusses religious punishments, self-flagellation, hypnosis, fasting, vitamin deficiencies, Mortification of the body etc., as a means of reaching those antipodes of the mind by increasing the CO2 to lower efficiency of the brain as a reducing valve and permit the entry into that “other world”, to experience the visionary or mystical from “out there”, also including things like prolonged shouting, praying, chanting, etc.
This book contained two essays Huxley wrote about the experience of taking Mescalin (LSD) and his journey to understand his inner self.
I only read the first essay The Doors of Perception and to be honest I found it to be pretty boring.
But neither, if we are to remain sane, can we possibly do without direct perception, the more unsystematic the better, of the inner and outer worlds into which we have all been born." (pg 49)Overall rating: 2.5/5 stars (rounded up to 3/5 stars)
The latter species of reactionary dismisses without much consideration the possibility that certain chemical substances might be useful and even important (one reviewer here compares the experience of reading Huxley's sober account of his experience with mescaline to the experience of being sober in a car full of drunks.
The former species of reactionary probably read on some website that members of the Native American Church take peyote, and somehow believes it logical to transition from that assertion to the conclusion that mescaline has some inherent profundity.
If hallucinogens have any utility, then at least some of it surely stems from their capacity to shake up our belief systems, to present reality in a strange, new way—in short, to unlock the doors of our perception.
As he explains it, psychotropic vehicles like mescalin and LSD grant us access to "the other world," they transport us to "the antipodes of the mind." And just like the ordinary world in which we typically spend our days, this drug-induced realm comes complete with its own set of intrinsic principles, along with its own standard of "truth."Hence, Huxley writes:Every mescalin experience, every vision arising under hypnosis, is unique; but all recognizably belong to the same species.
Huxley's eloquent little essay is the precursor to the modern position on drug use - resentment that tobacco and alcohol, which are plainly harmful, are legal, and yet other illegal drugs, which are ambiguous, are not.
In his case, he uses mescaline, derived from peyote, used in Native American religious rituals to this day, despite legal threats of action.Let drugs be tested and used responsibly, of course it is a fair sentiment.
An interesting book, although the ideas in the first part have become so disseminated in modern positions (at least to me!) that it only is his own experience which is still worth reading.
Woah. First time reading anything like this.It makes a lot of sense for the most part,although the part where he says we likeshiny things because they take us to ''The Other World'' is a bit ''meh, no.'' it most certainlymakes you see the whole thing from a verydifferent angle. It also made me want to try psychedelics even more and Mescalin is now on my Drugs-To-Take list. I will have to re-readit though.
Huxley je svijet za sebe, a njegovo poimanje svijeta i života jedinstveno je.
A terrific book about perceiving things as they actually are: Kant's noumena, the thing in itself.
The book is a fascinating treatise on raw perception, on an experience of seeing things in real time.
Huxley compared the taking of the drug mescaline to the experience of schizophrenia: whereas the drug fades and you are no longer bombarded with perceiving all of existence, the schizophrenic perceives all existence indefinitely.
I appreciate this book a lot, and must ultimately agree with its conclusion that systematic thinking will ultimately miss the mark and flounder to explain the things that are most important, the things that give our life the most meaning.
Algının düşsel/düşünsel doğasını canlandıran meskalin deneyi ve sonuçları. Cennet ve cehennem bildiğimiz tanımlarından çok uzaktalar aslında.
Science has advanced since his time, and much of his enthusiasm for conscious-altering drugs have darkened by experiential data, yet this book holds its own value in terms of understanding art, spirituality and religion.A few notes on this book:(1) Human being “embodied spirit” versus simply animated automatons which implies “by its very nature every embodied spirit is doomed to suffer and enjoy in solitude.” The hard shell of “self” encrusts us to a mind with particular furnishing and setup, hence it is impossible to experience Other Minds even if we hypothesized wildly about ‘the theory of mind’.
this position is, in my opinion, even more untenable than the materialist one - it is directly evident from our experience of the universe that everything is connected, and the idea of two separate but somehow-interacting universes is silly.)the second thing that turned me on in "the doors" was his description of tripping not as a vivid hallucinogenic experience, but as an exposure the the raw, true, nature of reality - that essentially, our survival filters fail to function.
heaven and hell is more or less the same.maybe i should be more interested in art, but both these texts read more as poor art criticism than anything else.the idea that psychedelics function by cutting off oxygen to the brain seems incredibly silly and quaint here in 2007.
So I decided that, starting with 2012, I'm going to try to focus on one "great mind" each year and read as much as I can by and about that person.
ANYWAY, for 2012 I decided to focus on Aldous Huxley, the great mind behind Brave New World.
In this text, Huxley goes into far more detail on how throughout time, people searched for transcendence.
Huxley says that as long as our society is in the business of keeping us in line, people will always search for an escape.
All in all, these two essays serve as an interesting and thought-provoking journey into the curious mind of a great thinker.
The description seemed interesting enough for me to give it a shot and it was a good experience.A believer in the use of mind-altering chemicals (colloquially called "drugs") as a means to widen the mind (not literally), Huxley argues that the only way for the human mind to achieve its true potential is by seeing things above and beyond what we normally perceive.
He used the brain on mescaline to describe spiritualism and epiphany, to explain trance and the religious high as he bats for the use of such products as a way for humans to think beyond the preconceived notions of ideas and conduct, and approach life through the perspective of a person high.
There are so many forms of escape that people try to utilise in order to "cope" with their mundane lifestyles.
Even now, after having read Huxley's account of his time as a spontaneous Mescaline user, I feel no closer to understanding.It appears to me that the most that can come out of this experience is that you become an unexpected fabric connoisseur.
Other then that, all colourful objects seem to shine with an inner light and everything turns into a connection to everything else.
Actually, that was my favourite thing about his account, how he described the connectivity, the oneness with every object.
Open the doors, step inside and float downstream. The philosophy of chemical nirvana through mescalin and LSD.
Un studiu asupra consumului de mescalină. Lucrare care are mai degrabă un caracter științific decât beletristic.

