https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18693627-the-girl-you-left-behind
I'm probably done with this author.
The storyline about Sophie and Eduoard during WWI kept me interested.
The painting of Sophie deeply affected all who viewed it and I liked the way it linked the two plots.
That second modern day storyline just didn't cut it for me.
I thought it would never end and did not care how it ended as long as it ended.
Me Before You was written by this author in 2012.
She needed to take more time with this one.
I think she needs to hire an aggressive editor and pare her stories to their essential cores.
"It was never about the painting, Sophie."And there it was, confirmation of my fate.  3.25 stars. I loved so many things about this book, especially the historical story of Sophie and her Edouard. Their legacy was worth at least 4 and a half stars. Unfortunately, I felt the modern day story of Liv and Paul to have floundered on for such a lengthy amount of time that it almost took the focus away from the girl in the painting (who was in my opinion the star of the book and the reason for why ev
I loved so many things about this book, especially the historical story of Sophie and her Edouard.
Unfortunately, I felt the modern day story of Liv and Paul to have floundered on for such a lengthy amount of time that it almost took the focus away from the girl in the painting (who was in my opinion the star of the book and the reason for why everything was set in motion), and I could only give their portion of the story 2 stars at best.Even with the Paul and Liv legal battle being drawn out for far too long, I am still happily loving so much about this book.
The painting sets in motion a series of events which has Sophie bartering the things that are most precious to her for one chance to see her husband again.
Se puede decir que estoy sin palabras! Sin respiración! No hace muchos días una compañera de GR me dijo que Jojo Moyes era una apuesta segura, y qué razón tenía. Es, son, dos historias tan fascinantes, duras y trágicas que... ufff! Sin lugar a dudas, una de las mejores novelas que he leído este año :)
The bar downstairs is still very lively during the day, though rations are low so the gathering of people has little to do with splurging on alcoholic drinks but more with finding solace amongst one another.Author Jojo Moyes paints a sober picture of the town and its people that slowly turns more gritty as the story moves along; with neighbour turning on neighbour as the slightest of suspicions.
As Paul and Liv piece together the faith of the young woman who just as desperately tried to get back to Edouard as Sophie is trying to cling to the fragments of David she has not yet lost, so does the reader.
Actually, this book would make a great Book Club read if anyone’s looking for something like that — there are so many possible interesting discussion topics within the story.The genre is fully Women’s Fiction (not a Romance at all).
The storyline alternated between the past in World War 1, and the present day — giving two sides of the same story which revolves around a painting.
Also it helped that around 70%, we went back to the past and got to see more of what happened then — I loved that!While I don’t want to give too much away, I will say that the story has a very satisfying ending — especially for a Fiction novel.
This was quite a story, and I honestly think Jojo Moyes is in a class all her own for pulling it off.
I love this author and it took Ami reading it first and loving it for me to read it.
This is my 5th book by Jojo Moyes, and I've loved them all for different reasons.
All of her books seem to have a character who is facing a life changing decision, or moral dilemma.
This is quite a borderline great book, with its talented author, and detailed characters, all making for a read never restrained by the tag 'chick lit' it carries.
The story encompasses the overlapping of history and geography.It's not unlike a Jeffrey Archer book.
But while Archer can only do so much, and has recourse of deaths to drum up drama, this book can do all of that without resorting to ultimate means.
But the character called Sophie, is doubly vivid in the reader's memory because she is long dead.
The village is having fun, yet it's so futile, they are all dead.
5 stars I wasn't planning on writing a review for this book I thought my 5 star rating spoke for itself. But its been 9 days since I read this and I can't get this book out of my head. I love JoJo's writing. This is my favourite of hers to date (out of the 4 books I have read). BTW I love the way this book ended.Recommend for those who enjoyWorld war romance/slight historicalHeartacheSome JoJo humour2 strong heroines told from past/present
برام قابل درک نیست که یه نفر بخواد این کتاب رو داوطلبانه بخونه و ازش لذت ببره، بدترین کتابیه که تا حالا خوندم.داستان به طرز افتضاحی ضعیفه، قسمت هایی که مربوط به فرانسه س به حدی وحشتناک اشتباه دارن که تقریبا مطمئنم نویسنده فقط براساس چیزهایی که شنیده اونا رو نوشته:| یه سرچ میزد تو ویکی پدیا حتی از این بهتر میشد! بعدشم اگه آلمانیا اینقدر با فرانسویا مهربون بودن و شب کریسمس فرمانده شون می اومد با یه زن فرانسوی میرقصید و...، احتمالا آخر سر فرانسویا نمیزاشتن حتی آلمانیها از کشورشون برن:| تا یکجایی از
برام قابل درک نیست که یه نفر بخواد این کتاب رو داوطلبانه بخونه و ازش لذت ببره، بدترین کتابیه که تا حالا خوندم.داستان به طرز افتضاحی ضعیفه، قسمت هایی که مربوط به فرانسه س به حدی وحشتناک اشتباه دارن که تقریبا مطمئنم نویسنده فقط براساس چیزهایی که شنیده اونا رو نوشته:| یه سرچ میزد تو ویکی پدیا حتی از این بهتر میشد!
بعدشم اگه آلمانیا اینقدر با فرانسویا مهربون بودن و شب کریسمس فرمانده شون می اومد با یه زن فرانسوی میرقصید و...، احتمالا آخر سر فرانسویا نمیزاشتن حتی آلمانی‌ها از کشورشون برن:| تا یکجایی از کتاب نویسنده آلمانی ها رو خوب نشون داده، بعد انگار یکی بهش گفته: «هی، آلمانیا خوب نبودن!» و از اونجا به بعد سعی کرده همونا رو وحشی نشون بده:| بدتر از اون، بخش هاییه که مربوط به سال 2006 میشه.
Heerlijke feelgood roman...echt vakantie leesvoer!Het verhaal behelst twee liefdesverhalen...afspelend in WOI en in het heden...met als verbindende factor het schilderij van Sophie. Het verhaal is goed geschreven en leest lekker weg...echter...het laat geen blijvende indruk achter.
Hola, resaca lectora más insoportable de mi vida y sensación de "jamás encontraré un libro que me guste tanto como este". Qué bonito, qué intenso y qué todo. Perfecto.
It’s WWI and Sophie’s husband (painter Edouard) has left to fight in the war. Sophie moves back to her family’s hotel during his absence, which has now been occupied by the Germans. In an effort to maintain some semblance of normalcy, Sophie has kept a portrait of herself, painted by Edouard, hanging on the hotel wall and the local Kommandant has found himself drawn to it. Sophie will offer everything she has to become this woman once again for the Kommandant in hopes of reuniting with her spou
It’s WWI and Sophie’s husband (painter Edouard) has left to fight in the war.
Sophie will offer everything she has to become this woman once again for the Kommandant in hopes of reuniting with her spouse.Fastforward almost 100 years to recent widow Liv. Sophie’s portrait was purchased by her late husband as a wedding gift for his new bride.
The WWI story seemed like I had read something similar before one too many times and Liv’s story felt underworked.
The back-and-forth time changes seemed out of place with over 100 pages devoted to telling Sophie’s story while you wouldn’t even know Liv existed if you had not read the book jacket.
This is an amazing story!!
Got it.)After I really loved Me Before You, I a) immediately fell into a slump and b) attempted to remedy said slump by acquiring as many Jojo Moyes books as possible.
Ese momento… cuando SOBRAN LAS PALABRAS.❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤
Σε αυτό το σημείο να πω ότι το πρώτο μέρος, με ηρωίδα την Σοφι, μου θύμισε έντονα την υπόθεση του βιβλίου Suite française της Némirovsky Irène, αν και πρέπει να αναφέρω ότι ο στόχος της Némirovsky δεν είναι να γράψει μια ερωτική νουβέλα, αλλά να παρουσιάσει κοινωνικά φαινόμενα… τέλος πάντων πίσω στο θέμα μας.
Το δεύτερο μέρος διαδραματίζεται στο 2006 και η ηρωίδα μας είναι η Λιβ μια ηρωίδα που έχει επιλέξει να μείνει πίσω… (για περισσότερες λεπτομέρειες διαβάστε το βιβλίο!)Να αναφέρω επίσης ότι η μετάφραση του βιβλίου από την Χρύσα Μπανιά ήταν πραγματικά πολύ καλή!Εν κατακλείδι πολύ ωραίο βιβλίο.
After reading Me Before You, I was all geared up to have my emotions raked across the rocks (in a good way), and this wasn't that.
It wasn't a bad story, but it's always difficult to readjust expectations.Sophie is an artist's wife living in occupied France.
It's daring and sexy in a way Sophie struggles to see herself and it catches the eye of the Kommandant who craves Sophie.
Liv fights passionately to keep the painting because of the connection to her deceased husband, but as she fights she learns Sophie's story and starts to fight for something else.While I adored Sophie's story, I struggled with Liv's.
Jojo eres fantástica. La novela también lo es.(Fin de la reseña. Para más información pasad por los tropecientos blogs que han recibido la novela gratis).
An outstanding narrator added extra appeal to this already excellent book.
Male to female, French/German accents were very, very good.
Two timelines joined together by a painting done in war time, and the struggle to find its rightful owner in the new millennium.Historical fiction is not my genre of choice, therefore I did enjoy the latter current day story more, but as a whole, I did enjoy this novel.
Jojo Moyes is an author of talent and I look forward to getting to all of her books at some stage.
Tied in unobtrusively was a lovely element of romance.
Lovely book!
I love all things old and historic,so reading about World War I,and France, was really such a blissful thing to do.
Sophie and Liv both were not perfect people,they had their flaws and that made them real, but they were both worthy of being called heroines.
I also appreciated the fact that Sophie wasn't able to move past her husband,whereas Liv could eventually, it shows us that even in similar circumstances people might chose differently,that of course doesn't mean that LIv loved David any less.
This book deserves more credit and i'm so glad i chose to read it.
Los momentos de tensión son demasiados dadas las circunstancias que viven la protagonista en todo su entorno, ya que la historia se desarrolla durante la primera guerra mundial.La segunda parte del libro nos sitúa en 2006, alrededor de 90 años después y, obviamente, con una nueva protagonista.
Esta segunda parte también me ha gustado mucho, me encanta Liv, en comparación con muchos he sentido más empatía por Liv, me gusto mucho su historia y como se va desarrollando, creo que Liv tiene una mayor evolución y crecimiento, ni que decir de Paul, me ha robado el corazón, como siempre Jojo creando protagonistas que nos roban el corazón.
Neighbors quickly turn away as they feel that the Kommandant wants to possess more than just the painting of Sophie that hangs in the motels living room.Flash forward to London 2006, Liv Halston, still dealing with the death of her handsome and ambitious husband, David.
The two embark on a relationship that will soon see both coming into contact with the mysterious disappearance of Sophie and the strange history of " The Girl You Left Behind Painting"Jojo Moyes once again tugs at the heartstrings and delivers a book that will make you want to reread as soon as you're finished reading it.
After reading Moyes novella, Honeymoon in Paris, preceding this novel, I couldn't wait to see how the characters lives played out in this engaging novel and I wasn't disappointed.
I enjoyed this book thoroughly and was happy with the ending, but my only confusion was how Liv didn't seem to remember that she saw a painting prior during her honeymoon (from novella) with the same woman in it...that was confusing to me.
I highly recommend this novel but I would suggest reading Honeymoon in Paris first since it sets the scene for this book.
In this book it is the Germans in 1916, taking over their little French town, and deciding to have Sophie cook for the Kommandant and his men.
That is the dilemma and though it seems she has little choice, there is always a choice, good or bad.
It is a picture that will connect the two story-lines.When one writes with dual time frames, I feel they are always taking a risk.
The story taking place nearly a century later, concerns a young woman, who must fight her deceased husband's family for the rights to own this painting.
Most of her protagonists feel like good friends by the end of the book.The Girl You Left Behind is actually a painting with an unresolved past.
Sophie ends up making some difficult choices and gets taken away in a cattle car towards a work camp.Fast forward almost 100 years later to Liv Halston, a copywriter living in the  Glass House designed by her deceased husband.
She is lost and alone, The Girl You Left Behind, a wedding present from her husband is the only thing worth fighting for.
La historia de Sophie es conmovedora.
I love how Jojo Moyes allows for the reader to follow Sophie and her story for about 1/3 of the book before we move on to modern time and to Liv. As I said, this book deals with two time periods and it does so beautifully.
We get to know the two main characters thoroughly, and we get to fall in love with them so deeply even though they are very different from each other.
This book does have some ressemblances to "The Last Letter from Your Lover" - also by Jojo Moyes, but at the same time the two books are so different from each other.

3.75★ I liked it!
A big surprise as I was not a fan of Me Before You. Plenty of good reviews from friends on this one so I’ll just add my thumbs up.
It was in my OverDrive hold queue for many months and I had forgotten about it.
I just love it when these long light-weight holds come in at just the right time.
Rather than being annoyed at 2 different story lines 100 years apart, I enjoyed both of them and ended up feeling like I got a twofer.
No wine was consumed while writing this review.
Brillante manera de comenzar una relación con Jojo Moyes. La Chica que dejaste Atrás, una historia que se lee a dos tiempos. Intensa, triste, Esperanzadora, hermosa!. He conocido a dos luchadoras: a Sophie, que me ha enseñado que el Amor es la base de la Esperanza y a Liv, que me ha enseñado que la Esperanza es lo último que se pierde, cuando se lucha por lo que uno quiere. Estas dos me han mantenido pegada a sus páginas sintiéndolo todo muy real, por esto me quedo encantada de conocerte Jojo Moyes, nos seguiremos viendo.. seguro!.
