https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356321.The_Story_of_Babar
Aside from endorsing Colonialism, Jean de Brunhoff makes light of death by killing off Babar's mother on page two, quickly moving on and completely ignoring it.
I'm sorry, but for a child's mother to die, that's a pretty big deal, and two pages later, that child shouldn't be totally over it and having fun riding an elevator and buying new shoes.
And lastly, the pictures are pretty poorly illustrated.Babar's adventure is somewhat cute, but it's just really hard to overlook death, not once, but twice.How is this considered a classic in Children's literature??
Babar, following his mother's murder at the hands of white hunters, blithely follows their path back to the white city.
Without his own mother, Babar is a child of the colonial city, happily learning to dress the dandy and eat french pastries.With the benefits of his education in a civilized country- thank god he's finally wearing clothes over the wrinkled, sagging, gray elephant skin- Babar returns to the land of his people where, due to his fine duds and worldly ways, is immediately declared king of the naked Afri- I mean- elephants.Babar returns home, more French than the French, and ready to lead his people on the path to civilization.
Thank God, those hunters killed his mother!
I can appreciate the iconic illustrations and can certainly see why Babar made an enduring character, especially when the books were first published, as probably many children found the antics of an elephant in the city humorous, and dressed in his gentlemanly attire he certainly makes an interesting contrast from the other creatures of the forest.
(I realize many view the story as an homage to colonialism.)I realize Babar is a very beloved character and I wish I could like the books more.
I really doubt that a kid will read this and think, "Gee, that means that French people are superior to people of an African tribe, as represented by elephants, and need the French to guide them in order to succeed!" While we're at it, let's just cut all the anthropomorphic animal stories out of the children's canon--they must be teaching our kids that in order to succeed, one must be human-ish.Anyway.
Kids are going to see a story about an elephant who wears a green suit.
Don't go to the white people's city Babar or else I can't read this to my kids!", "Oh my gosh!
That character can't be hunting, can he?"Good Lord.
If there's anyone out there who is thinking about reading it with or getting it for their child(ren), if you're the type to be scared of by statements like the ones here (I hope you're not for your sake) get the book and read it through yourself first.
Jeez, look through my books that I've read with my daughter and I guess I should be in jail.
I'm sure there must be some other versions of this book but the one i read had hand-written text!, and in cursive!
Even i had issues deciphering a word here or there but i can only imagine the horror on a child's face if they were handed this :lol.
Also Babar is elected King rather than inheriting it, which seems a nice change...
until you find out why he in particular is elected.
Part of me wants to think it's a biting satire on elections but i suspect not :lol.The art's still nice though :) .
This book was confusing to me.Babar has his mother killed in front of him. I thought this would turn out into a similar story to Bambi, but I was wrong.Oh so wrong. Suddenly, Babar leaves the jungle and assimilates with the humans (he doesn't hate them for what happened to his mother? or scared of them?).His cousins join him later and later they all return to the jungle beause the cousin's family was looking for them. Afterward Babar becomes king and his cousin bride becomes queen.Confused? So am I.
This was my 5 yr old's choice for his "on his own" reading today.
And he was sorely disappointed.
I had read some of this as a child but I didn't remember any of it.
Babar's mother gets killed by hunters?
I'm not a politically correct person when it comes to discerning what my child reads.
If he's able to read it, then I'm willing to let him, and then discuss with him after.
I read it after him and wanted to kill myself.
He was just happy he never had to read it again.
I remember being in love with Babar as a child, but I'm thinking they must have been the updated stories.
Not only did my preschooler not really enjoy this lengthy tale, I was almost too embarrassed to keep reading!
I mean we see his mom shot and killed and Babar is sad, but he's ok by the next day because a rich old lady wants to buy him some clothes!
Then he goes out to civilize his former herd (who of course want to make him king because he knows of the outside world!) along the way proposing to his cousin...I think I'm done with Babar for awhile!
He runs away to the city where an old woman takes him in.
Years pass before two random elephants come running to the city too.
Babar and his old lady "friend".
He gets them some clothes and tries to make them conform to the posh society but decides this is his chance to escape and dumps his girlfriend and heads back to the forest.
On the drive there, he becomes engaged to the girl elephant, not even mourning his recent split from Old Lady.
Once he arrives at the forest, he's made king, gets married, and is off to who knows where for his honeymoon.
As a child I was drawn to Babar (a name I just recently learned is pronounced with emphasis on the second syllable --buh-BAR) partly because the books were written in cursive handwriting.
At five, I couldn’t decipher the curly letters, but oh, how I wanted to.
When I could at last read the words, I felt as if I’d cracked some sort of ancient code, so the books always felt quite magical to me.
Little did I know the books would be later denounced for their pro-colonialism politics.
Read with a child’s imagination, if you can crack the code.
After his mother is murdered and he is chased by the hunter who did, his first desire is to...buy some sharp looking threads?
And when Celeste and Arthur visit him for the first time in the city, what does he do?
Buy them clothes of course!
And when he returns with Celeste and Arthur to the jungle in his swanky new car(nice image there; Celeste and Arthur's mothers have to run behind the car with their trunks held up to avoid the belching smoke), what does he do when told he is the new elephant king?
Why, tell everyone he and Celeste are getting married and will require (wait for it)...new clothes!
Babar's mom is killed by hunters, so he goes off to the big city and is taken in by a rich old lady who happens to like elephants and he becomes her boy toy.
After living there for a couple of years, he returns to the rest of the elephants where he is immediately crowned king (the reason?
because he has lived with men) and, at the same time, marries his cousin Celeste.I just could not get into this beloved classic.
My son was mildly interested, only because he recognized it from a Babar cartoon we saw last month.
My father loved to read this book to me when I was a child. He made it come alive! Reading it today to my first graders it brings back those warm memories....
I really enjoyed this book when I was a child and still love it today.
because clearly strange elephants must want nice clothes and also wouldn't need to communicate that...at all...it's just obvious- Babar gets engaged to his cousin (yes I know it was a different time back then) during a car ride (again I know it was a different time, but seriously...I just saw you cousin, oh let's be engaged now)- he literally becomes king only because he just came from the big city and he has nice clothes.
Um...yeah...I mean it's still fun to read, but I feel like I'd prefer something that was a little longer but better written.
Originally published in 1931 as Histoire de Babar, le petite éléphant, this classic children's picture-book, the first of a number of titles to chronicle the adventures of its eponymous elephantine hero, has sparked quite a bit of debate in the field of children's literature. Condemned by some as a colonialist fantasy - most notably, see Herbert R. Kohl's  Should We Burn Babar?: Essays on Children's Literature and the Power of Stories  - and defended by others as a comic parody of that fantasy -
- and defended by others as a comic parody of that fantasy - see Adam Gopnik's essay, Freeing the Elephants: What Babar Brought, published in The New Yorker magazine - it seems to excite quite a bit of commentary from adult readers.
Whether child readers perceive these themes, or are harmed by them, is another question altogether.Although not one of my great favorites as a girl, I do vaguely recall reading the Babar books when young, and while I can't remember any of the specifics regarding my reaction to them - clearly, as my friends and family can attest, they didn't turn me into an apologist for colonialism - I liked them well enough.
He finds a sugar mama (named only "Old Lady"), who gives him money and anything else he wants, and he lives in Gatsbyesque opulence until one day his cousins Arthur and Celeste show up.
When Babar arrives, the Elephant Elders say, "Oooh, look, he's got the fanciest clothes and a snazzy car; let's make him our king." Babar agrees to take the job, but announces that he and Celeste (who, let's not forget, is a) a child, and b) Babar's cousin) are now engaged.
Go shopping!) and entitlement (Old Lady gives Babar anything he wants, and then the elephants make him King, just because).
Lucy Mangan in her book Bookworm: A Memoir of Childhood Reading has said everything I thought about Babar but did not know how to put into words.
"He was lumberingly dull." "Honestly whose first thought when they pitch up in an unimagined, unexplored city is to buy a suit of clothes?" I discovered Babar when joyfully exploring my local library as a child.
Years later when my son was born a distant memory of Babar...
Led me to invest in Babar's Anniversary Album: 6 Favorite Books but my son's view was evidently the same as mine.
A second son and a daughter later led to further testing of the Babar story.
My one family member - willing to part with her books - the only problem with that is that, besides the fantasy and science fiction and vampires she reads, there are so many I've been longing to read from her collection.
Will book buyers have to pass a test on loving the books before I am willing to accept their money?
Nostalgia of a life of loving books, and the thick paper, and darling drawings.
Books Lost but always loved, then suddenly FOUND.
What I do remember is that he mentioned Babar as something he used to read to his daughter.
I guess in 1933, when it was published, a book like that was totally fine for children; just a normal life, wasn't it?
Meanwhile, the elephant king is conveniently poisoned, and Babar, having learnt the proper ways in the city, becomes a king (making his cousin he met that very day his queen).The only way it can be read today is assuming it a social satire.
But satire is not a genre a kid still reading picture books can understand, so it's definitely not suited for children.
This story was selected as one of the books for the November 2012 - Classic Picture Book Characters reads at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I know I read this book (or others in the series) when I was very young, but so far I had not read this book with our girls.
It was much as I remembered it, but somehow I don't think this book has withstood the test of time.
The illustrations are very recognizable, and the characters are just as I remembered them.
We enjoyed reading this book together, but I doubt our girls will remember this as vividly as I did.
I just reread this and boy do I have a list of complaints.
1. His mom dies.
2. He goes from being a little elephant to being an adult in a matter of hours?
4. They float between being just elephants and anthropomorphic too freely.
5. Two young elephants cousins find him in the city, they too grow up quickly while there.
6. The old king dies,there are pictorial depictions of this.
7. On the car ride back to the forest Babar becomes engaged to Celeste, whom is one of the young elephant cousins.
Another banned book.
Poor little Babar.
His mom is shot and killed while he's riding on her back!
Not a cheery way to kick of a children's picture book.
Life does get better for Babar though, and when the king is poisoned and dies, well, he gets to be the next king.
I didn't find anything really compelling in this book though, and it would definitely have it's sad moments for children.
No need to ban it though.
It's kind of like Bambi meets Lion King.
;) Again - the key with so many books - talk about it with your children.
My fourth book for Banned Books Week. This was a pretty fun book to read, though also sad (in the beginning).
I could swear I loved this as a kid... But it is kind of not-so-fun reading this as a now-adult. Sad and strange. So very, very odd that this is such a classic.
1,5Me solía gustar mucho Babar, lamentablemente cuando se crece hay cosas que no se pueden ignorar y la relectura de este libro fue todo un descubrimiento, uno malo :cMe duele darle tan baja puntuación, pero la nostalgia no puede hacer que pase por algo el contenido de la historia. Después de esto me da miedo hacer una lectura más profunda de los Moomins y de Winnie de Pooh porque a ellos nadie me los baja del pedestal.Nadie :c
I grew up with this story, and I remember really liking it, so I was a little leery about introducing my son to it. What if it wasn't as good as I remembered? Fortunately it was, and all was well.
Καταπληκτικό. Μπόρεσα να το καταλάβω στο μεγαλύτερό του μέρος. :)
Cosa linda <3
