https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383197.The_White_Cottage_Mystery
Originally written in 1927 as a series for the Daily Express and then printed in book format in 1928.Jerry Challenor drops for a young woman at the White Cottage.
Moments later he hears a scream and the body of Eric Crowther has been found.
Everyone who had met Eric did not like him.Detective Chief Inspector Challenor, Jerry's father has the task of finding out who did it from a long list of suspects.This is a well written novella.
If you are a fan of Agatha Christie this novella is for you.I would like to thank NetGalley, Bloomsbury USA and the author Margery Allingham for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.
THE WHITE COTTAGE MYSTERY Written by Margery Allingham1927 (reissued June 2016); Bloomsbury Publishing  (139 Pages)Genre: fiction, mystery, suspense, romance, cozyRATING: ★★★★When Jerry Challenor drops a young woman off at the White Cottage all he can think about is going back to the pretty girl.
With Jerry in love with one of the suspects DCI Challenor finds more resistance than any other case!This novel in 1927 was presented as a serial for the Daily Express, and was published into book format the following year.
Now, almost 90 years later, The White Cottage Mystery is available in eBook format.
If you enjoy Agatha Christie, Patricia Wentworth, etc you must read The White Cottage Mystery.
This is a short story by Margery Allingham that features Inspector Challenor accompanied by his son, Jerry.
Jerry drops off Norah Bayliss at White Cottage, when a loud gunshot is heard.
The dead man turns out to be a neighbour, Eric Crowther, a nasty piece of work.
Crowther liked watching people suffer by using their secrets against them.
Not for blackmail mind, just the sheer pleasure of torturing people.
A smitten Jerry joins his father on his hunt for the killer.
Everyone is a suspect until they are eliminated.
An absorbing mystery for readers who enjoy reading from the golden age of detective fiction.
So many leads, but no clues.
Does this web lead anywhere?
The famed W.T. will surely clear away the tangle!
Well, now I’ll try to share my thoughts without giving it away.
It got to be a bit much towards the end.
Next, probably because it was a serial before becoming a novel, it has an odd way of moving between chapters.
The new chapter has a tendency to pick up in the middle of a conversation anywhere from 5 minutes to days after the last one finished and then fill you in on what you’ve missed.
That made it a bit hard to follow sometimes.
My thanks to the author, her publisher and Netgalley.I think I just don’t care for Margery Allingham’s books.
Margery Louise Allingham is ranked among the most distinguished and beloved detective fiction writers of the Golden Age alongside Agatha Christie, Dorothy L.
Allingham is J.K. Rowling's favourite Golden Age author and Agatha Christie said of Allingham that out of all the detective stories she remembers, Margery Allingham 'stands out like a shining light'.
I am a big fan of the Golden Age of Detective Novels, but this won’t be one of the authors I will turn to.
but this takes nothing away from the finished product.Jerry Challenor meets up with a young lady as she alights from the bus and offers her a lift to her home, which turns out to be White Cottage.
And that answer is the most surprising one of all which makes the denouement of the book very unusual and, rather mildly paced throughout, the mystery suddenly comes very much to life at the end.
Jerry's father, Inspector W.T. Challenor of the Yard, is the cop called in on the case; having succumbed to Norah's allure, Jerry tags along on the investigation, which eventually takes the two Challenors to the south of France.Everyone associated with the White Cottage (except the servants, probably) and with Crowther's own home, the Dene, seems to have a motive and perhaps the opportunity to have blown the monster away, but one by one W.T. satisfies himself that they're innocent, until .
The White Cottage Mystery is to be sure a slight piece, but it offers an interesting insight into the early work of arguably the best of the Crime Queens.
Sayers and Agatha Christie, heck I even enjoy Georgette Heyer's detective stories, this felt a little too contrived.Eric Crowther has been murdered with a shot gun in a crowded house, everyone is a suspect, everyone has a reason to hate him, and everyone is hiding something.Although I didn't love this novel I thought it was incredibly accomplished for a first novel and it included many of the devices I have read elsewhere in Golden Age novels such as secret societies, war heroes, plucky younger sisters, slightly manic elderly servants, stilted dialogue, emotional foreigners and a phlegmatic detective.I must say I will look out for other books by Margery Allingham, especially the Campion series.I received a free copy of this book from the publisher via NetGalley in return for an honest review.
Written initially as a magazine serial, this is a short, well-constructed mystery where the culprit is very much the last person you'd think of, but also the obvious person in the context of the facts of the crime.


This book couldn't have been more awesome for me, at this time. Margery Allingham's writing somewhat resembles Agatha Christie's but with some differences that manage to make reading The White Cottage Mystery even more enjoyable. I have nothing but good things to say about this novel. Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for giving me the opportunity to have read such an amazing mystery! (also published on Goodreads, Amazon, and Barnes & Noble)
If anyone is really impressed by the amount of books I'm reading all of a sudden, don't be. This is a combination of cold and realising these are all due tomorrow. Despite being first published in book form in the 70s, this is actually Allingham's first story and predates Campion.
I almost gave up on this small mystery book, but when I saw how much other readers enjoyed it and loved Ms. Allingham's books I decided to keep going.
This is a "whodunnit " book.
I couldn't keep up with all the names and motives.
It became frustrating and daunting.
About halfway through I settled in and after finishing the story had to go back and reread some sections.
It took me awhile to acclimate my brain to all the characters and goings on.
However, after finding my footing I did enjoy the latter half of the book.
For what this is -- a Golden Age detective story -- it is flawless. I thoroughly enjoyed it. She's a bit like Agatha Christie, not as witty as Dorothy Sayers, but certainly able to stand on her own merits. I look forward to reading more of Margery Allingham (this was my first).
first published as a newspaper series.The plot is simple: Jerry finds a lovely girl and drives her home.
Just as they arrive, a shot is heard.There's a dead man, a neighbor, who happens to be hated by everyone around him.It so happens that Jerry's father is the famous Detective Chief Inspector Challenor, and aided by his son, he will do everything in his power to solve the mystery.
Add a few red herrings, a little romance, as Jerry falls in love with the girl and you have a lovely read.I received an ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review.
This is the first Margery Allingham novel that I have read, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.The format is a classic who done it - seven possible murderers, who are whittled down, to denounce the actual murderer in the last chapter. Nothing earth shattering, but the formula works so why change it?The story is well written, well paced and with sufficient twists to keep you reading, and wanting to know who did it.Looking forward to reading another of her books soon.I was given a copy of this book by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
This my first time reading anything by Margery Allingham, and I enjoyed it and highly recommend it! This story involves Detective W.T. (Greyhound) Challoner and his son, Jerry. They investigate the murder of a man whom everyone freely admits that they hate and all the suspects have a motive and the opportunity to have committed the crime, or do they??My thanks to Netgalley and Bloomsbury USA for the opportunity to read and review this book.
nice little cozy mystery, with a few twists - I nevertheless discovered the guilty person way before inspector Challenor (a very sympathetic inspector ;) )
This selection is the May-2018 novel.I am amazed that I never heard of this author prior to reading this novel.
As I was reading the novel I was also thinking about mysteries by Agatha Christie.
In "A Note on the Author" ...Agatha Christie said of Attingham that out of all the detective stories she remembers, "Margery Attingham stands out like a shining light." It's a quick read, absorbing, and I would have finished it in one sitting if I would have been able to stay awake on a Friday night.
I can't wait to read more mysteries by this author.
Allingham's first mystery novel is amusing in it's datedness with many of the plot elements descending directly from Bleak House and A Woman in White and assorted Victorian potboilers, but so condensed so that it reads almost like an outline of a novel.
There's a secret society, illegitimate children, blackmail, and stereotypes about.
It is however, a well-constructed classical golden age puzzle with a solution that is, in fact, much more modern that the book that precedes it.
At 160 or so pages this doesn't take long to read and if you are interested in the history of crime novels this is well worth taking the time to read.
This book was simply mildly interesting.
1928, nice elderly Inspector and his son find themselves mixed up in a nasty domestic murder; rural England, Paris, and French Riviera.Cosy police procedural, extremely old-fashioned style but still interesting and well-written - worth a look.
(BLACKKERCHIEF DICK, 1923) WHITE COTTAGE works very well in the cosy police procedural format, it's nicely plotted, has pretty good pacing and settings (if a bit perfunctory) and there's a nifty little bite to the twist at the end too.
The ending twist is not obvious even to a current reader, and this early novel is well worth your time if you enjoy cosies in an extremely old-fashioned style.
It was later edited by her sister, Joyce, to remove the repetitions found so often in serializations and published in book form after Margery's death.It opens with Jerry Challanor motoring along country roads when he spies a pretty young woman deposited along the road by a bus.
T. Challanor of Scotland Yard and soon his dad is on the case.It doesn't take long for the Yard Inspector to discover that Crowther was a thoroughly unlikeable fellow.
Margery Allingham's first detective story, written before she had properly developed her own voice. A good story all the same, playing fair by the rules of the game. It was originally set in serial form, which explains a couple of glaring inconsistencies in the narrative, but let them by. There are a few things which reappear, reworked, in later Albert Campion stories but I've no intention of spoiling anything by saying which, or what, or when.
It is also the first Margery Allingham book I've read, although I am sure it is only the first of many.Eric Crowther is the victim, shot dead at the White Cottage.
Jerry became involved in the crime when he gave a young woman a ride to the White Cottage, and then, just minutes later--while putting up his convertibles top nearby, he hears the shot and rushes back to the scene along with a constable that was near.
He is attracted to the young woman, and is worried that she is also a suspect, among several others, of killing Crowther.Throughout the book you first suspect this one, and then that one, until the solution is finally revealed.
Thankfully for Jerry, his father is a Chief Inspector and the two of them set about finding the killer.Margery Allingham is one of the best known writers of the Golden Age, with The White Cottage Mystery being serialised in 1927.
This was my first foray into her work and provided some light relief in the way that only cozy crime can.With its cast of potential murderers, it is certainly of a familiar style to readers of Agatha Christie or Georges Simenon.
I love this way of being able to reduce the number of suspects down to the perpetrator, though I found myself caring little about the characters in this particular mystery.
I love mystery novels and I absolutely adore Agatha Christie, so I couldn’t help but give Margery Allingham’s most acclaimed work The White Cottage Mystery a try.
I have to admit that parts of this book reminded me of Agatha Christie’s The Murder of Roger Ackroyd and considering that The White Cottage Mystery was published in 1928 a couple of years after Agatha Christie’s novel, Allingham was probably influenced a bit by Christie’s work.
Great and quick summer read.I’d like to thank NetGalley for providing me with a free copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.
Very good book by Margery Allingham.
I have always liked her Albert Campion books.
This is not Albert Campion, but still good.
Really proud of myself.A very evil man dies just after the son of a detective has given a girl a lift to the house from the bus station.
So, who killed him with the shotgun on the table - a gun he had brought over himself to taunt the husband of the woman who was his victim.
Although, really everyone in the house is his victim.
No one likes the man and no one mourns his death.
When Eric Crowther is found dead at the White Cottage everyone in the vicinity is suspect as he was a collector of their secrets.It is up to Chief Inspector Challenor to discover those secrets and so the killer.The writing style of the book reflects that it was written in the 1920's.This is possible the first Allingham book I have read, look forward to reading more.A NetGalley Book
