https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/412238.Secrets
I cannot believe they've re-released and updated these books to fit the times. Seriously? Do the characters really need cell phones and internet access to make them relatable to today's teen? Has Gossip Girl really ruined everything? They better not have messed with the fashion descriptions. I want to know that Liz has her hair feathered and pinned back with two barrettes, that match her polo shirt, which is tucked into her pleated khaki pants. C'mon!
:)Cover Models: Elizabeth and JessicaElizabeth looks utterly scandalized at what Jessica is gleefully saying to someone on the phone.Page count: A whopping 118 pagesSpecial Event: A fall dance.Number of times "a hundred and thirty-seven" was mentioned: Once, on page 87.Mental Illness of the Week: It's a tie.Jessica has psychotic episodes, two, three times, I don't know I lost count.
I mean, what if some thought it was me hanging out with Enid?" - page 24Since this book is all about Jessica destroying Enid's reputation, there are plenty more degrading comments concerning Elizabeth's best friend.
as the motto goes, 'What Jessica wants, Jessica gets' simply must come true in this one.
Jessica is wants two things right now Bruce Patman and the title of queen for the next school dance.
What Jessica does in this book to get her way is low and plain cruel to several people.
I feel so bad for Elizabeth and Enid who are caught in the middle and even a bit bad for Ronnie who gets a twisted version of a truth that he was not ready to understand.
I'm slowly working my way through the Sweet Valley High and University series, as well as completing my collection.
She finally confides in Liz, who swears not to tell anyone, and of course Jessica stumbles upon one of the letters Enid accidentally left in Liz's room.
I'm not really a huge fan of the first 10 books or so of the series, before Francine passed her work off to a ghostwriter.
I've also never really been a fan of Enid, so any book where she is the center of attention is bound to not be a favorite of mine.
Each book seems to have the same running gags: every girl crying at the drop of a hat, Jessica mentioning 'a hundred thirty-seven times', Jessica being a sociopathic clothes and boyfriend stealing little schemer, and Elizabeth/Liz being a passive little pushover.
Central crisis: Jessica wants to be fall queen and Elizabeth's best friend Enid, whom Jessica despises, is standing in her way.
And besides, she doesn't want her sister to be friends with a nerd anyway.
Most importantly, Jessica is sure stereotypical 80s high school cliche Bruce Patman with his black porsche (and house on the hill) is going to be crowned king.
We can all agree that Jessica is a straight up psychopath right?
Yes, yes, I know this whole series is bound to be insanely cheesy BUUUUUT. . . it's a lot of fun to read.
First it takes her forever to figure out that people are mad at her and why, and then to realize that Jessica had a hand in it...sheesh.
I give up.I really loved these books at a certain time in my life, and now they're something of a guilty pleasure.
I think re-reading them is fun because it takes me back to a different time and place, and so becomes associated with feelings and memories that has nothing to do with the content of the books.
Which means I'm going to keep re-reading these things.
Ok so I know these books have there faults, there not well written, there probably not the best books for teenage girls but if your like me and appreciate them for what they are they are a fun read.Jessica really annoyed me in this book and she stopped to a new low even for her.
I liked the strong message in the book about how starting and spreading rumours can be so damming and how to over come that if you're the victim, I also loved that Jessica got her just deserts and the whole situation made me giggle!
Another good installment in the series.
3 Stars
If I had done a fraction of what Jessica has gotten away with, my mother would have had me kidnapped in the middle of the night and sent off to a boot camp in the woods to scare some sense into me.Edin is worried about her past coming out, especially with her super jealous boyfriend (her first clue that maybe he isn't the best guy to be wasting her time with in my opinion).
Well I wrote a long review on the first book Double Love, so this won't be as detailed.
I read both of these books back to back--pretty easy to do when they're only about 150 pages long.
One thing I forgot to mention on the first review, that I had forgotten about, was how each book ends.
It got me and my friends instantly on the phone talking about the possibilities of Enid's past and begging our parents to get us to a book store or library.

This was the first Sweet Valley High book I ever read.
I loved how the outfits were described and how Jessica got a taste of her own medicine in the end.
In the end, I learned what a true boyfriend is.
At the time, I was blinded by my love for Sweet Valley High to notice the big issues of the domestic violence, unsupervised party, and Lila’s actions.
Lila’s lucky her jealous rumor just got Ms. Dalton a broken heart, harassment, and sleep deprivation.
Ms. Dalton could’ve gotten fired or even arrested.
Jessica and Lila might not have intended the consequences to happen, but they did happen anyway.
Luckily these books are not getting any less ridiculous!
Don’t forget to link back to A Simply Enchanted Life and Jami’s Words.We are back in Sweet Valley High with all new drama in "Secrets." In this book, we find out that Jessica learned absolutely nothing from her shenanigans in the first book.
And now, well, being a Christian woman, I can’t say it!" -Aunt Em; The Wizard of Oz.Jessica stooped to an all new low in this book when she deliberately exposed Enid's secret to the school.
I thought I couldn't hate Jessica any more than I already did but I was wrong.This book also tackles the subject of inappropriate student/teacher relationships.
So the second book I received was the old edition from the eighties, which made everything better. That said, in the first book Jessica accuses Todd of sexual assault and in this one, she purposefully misleads Enid's boyfriend (kind of scarily controlling guy) into thinking he was being cheated on-- girl really is awful- how did she have so many friends, anyway? The third book is the new version. I am ready to feel like everything is wrong again, but this time, I am prepared. Two stars, because that's probably what I'll give all of these books...
I KNOW what it's like for a guy to do a 100 and turn from someone you thought you knew to a complete ass hole right in front of your eyes and the hurt you feel thinking to yourself what happened.
But then at the first sign of Ronnie being possessive (and apparently it doesn't take much) why didn't she call it off if in the back of her mind she knew he wouldn't be cool with her communicating with an old (ex) just as a friend?*Even though I think less and less of Jessica, in this one I actually admire her determination to not give up going after her guy.
What can I say about this book, I never realized how much of a huge brat Jessica was oh and I can’t forget how selfish and so conceited she is too. She treats her sister and friends badly and loves to spread rumours that aren’t true. Poor Elizabeth having a sister like that. In this book Jessica spreads a rumour about Elizabeth’s friend Enid and ends up causing a lot of issues between the two friends. Sad but it does all work out in the end.
Jessica has not yet realized what an ass Bruce really is, and is desperately trying to catch his attention, as she's certain he'll fall hard for her the minute he 'discovers' her.However, though Jessica is sure she'll be made queen, she wants to make absolutely certain, and as Enid's boyfriend, Ronnie is in charge of the voting, she's concerned that he'll convince everybody to vote for Enid instead of her!
c) break up Enid and Ronnie so she can suck up to Ronnie and become queen of the ball, have Bruce become king and fall madly in love with her!Since it's Sweet Valley, Jess' plan works only too well.
Another awesome story! It seems Jessica didn't learn, she still had to have her way and schemed and lied. But Elizabeth got her back for what she did. I loved how well written this series is! I look forward to reading the next book in the series :).
Jessica Wakefield is alarmingly awful. Who hurt her?
Finally reading the series from the beginning (I've read one before). It is so silly but a quick read and entertaining. Love that these are on Kindle now.
Loved this books as a teenager. Easy to read and had me gripped. Would even read again in my 30s!
http://kateylovell.blogspot.co.uk/201...
so entertaining
This is my favorite SVH book yet. Jessica is outrageously selfish👌
Another feel good book!! I’ve been revisiting my moms childhood favorite books for a school project and I am really enjoying myself!!
Jess continues to be a psychopath, what else is new. (Or is it a sociopath?) Elizabeth remains a saint. Todd is bae.
