https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114138.Nightshade_Night_Smoke
Roberts has a way to draw you in to the story and keep you coming back for more.
Everytime Althea makes it clear things need to remain professional between them, Colt is there daring her to deny the desire swirling between them.
Despite their differences they make a good team, and Colt now has a new mission, to convince Althea to take a chance on him.
Book #3 in the Night Tales's series, this is a quick read and a suspenseful romance with humor and wonderful characters!NIGHTSMOKERyan Piasecki can't get Natalie Fletcher out of his head after investigating the fire at her building.
This book #4 in the Night Tales's series is intriguing from beginning to end!
I don't really know why, but it kept me turning pages and even though I'm an avid reader of paranormal stories, this rather normal one kept me reading until the very last page.The first story is about Althea and Colt who partner up to find a missing girl and oust a pornographic video ring.
The story is a page turner and you really feel the cold fury that just lurks behind Althea and Colt.
or not?!The second story is about Nathalie and Ryan and a story that could be Cinderella material if the two protagonists didn't have switched roles: Ryan is a fire fighter turned arson investigator who is looking into the suspicious fires of Nathalie's Million Dollar company.
Nora Roberts has delivered two steamy, sizzling tales of romantic suspense that a hard to put down.Nightshade-An ambitious hard nosed detective goes up against a stubborn PI on the trail of the missing daughter of friends.
Colt and Althea step on each others toes and hearts as they solve the case.Night Smoke--Natalie and Ryan are fanning the flames of passion as they search for a pyro and try to keep her business from going up in smoke.
The two stories are the second in Roberts Night tales series and will light a torch for romance fans while creating spine tingling suspense.
This a smoldering 5 star read.
Nightshade3.5 stars
But Lieutenant Althea Grayson prided herself on being in control, and she wouldn't let her new partner ruin that.
The way he challenged Althea's thinking, stared right into her eyes...and held her in his arms.
NIGHT SMOKE: Arson investigator Ryan Piasecki was a man who got the job done no matter what the obstacle...or how beautiful she was.
Ambitious executive Natalie Fletcher's new business was going up in smoke, literally, and she needed Ryan's help to catch the arsonist.
But if he wasn't careful, the sparks flying between him and this hothouse rose would erupt into a five-alarm blaze -- and they'd both be engulfed by the Night Smoke
I started reading this without knowing that it was part of a series. I had read some of Ms Roberts other books of different genres, but I really like her Night series books. This series of books deals with people officers and their private lives as well as their jobs. In fact, I like them better than any of her other genres of books. Check this series out.
This is a five book series so I will do one review for all five. The books are great. The characters are easy to like although at times you wonder what they are thinking. The 3rd one has an odd twist that doesn't really fit in with the series but doesn't diminish from the storyline. I would recommend all these books although not so much to be listened to as the narrator isn't the best. I almost didn't listen to the series but I'm glad I did.
I must remember to not read a series of Nora Roberts books in a row! The hero and heroine are interchangeable with each other, especially in her earlier novels. However, I did enjoy the first story. the second was not so good, I thought. I felt that she didn't have enough for the length she needed, so she padded it out. So a three star rating for Night Smoke.
Gave up after about half way through and a year later. Just couldn't make myself go back into book. Story was predictable. I will read simple romances and suspense/crime of some of my favorite. There needs to be an interesting, twisting, oppositional or humorous path along the way. There is opposition but it is straight forward and predictable.
Wow!! Two books by Nora Roberts that I hadn't read before! Who woulda thunk it.
Loved both of these stories!!! Loved that they played off one another just slightly. Amazing reading!!
Two good romances. Have lots of the criminal element and some arson too.
1st Story- 1 star2nd Story- 3 stars
This compilation contained the 3rd and 4th books in the sextet of Nora Roberts' intriguing series entitled Night Tales.
Nora Roberts keeps readers interested in this 6-book series by reintroducing previous characters and further defining their intertwined relationships.
The best thing about Nora Roberts’ books is that you are never bored; there is rich detail that takes the reader to the edge, but never lets the story get lost in minutiae.Nightshade reintroduces Boyd Fletcher’s partner from book one in this series, Lieutenant Althea Grayson.
I highly recommend this series to anyone who likes mystery, elaborate scene set-ups and love stories, all mixed together.
I liked that they had some of the same characters in both of the stories, nice continuity.The reason I gave Night Smoke a slightly lower rating is because of the heroine.
The heroine in Night Smoke is an Executive Officer in a multi million dollar company, yet she acts like she should be involved in knowing everything about the investigation...which is kind of irritating when it causes undue delays.
The action stays prett consistant, whether it be the action of the mystery or the action of the passion between the main characters.Good read!
Finished this one this morning while I was waiting for the frost to magically melt off the windshield of the van before work :) That's how good this book was..
had to read a few pages whenever I could...
waiting for my order at Sonic, waiting for the windshield to defrost...
waiting in the checkout line at the grocery store....
Just not enough time to read anymore...Anyway this seems to be book 3 & 4 of a 4 book series having to do with 'night'.
and 'Ry' in Night Smoke was a real hero fire fighter, so whats not to love there!http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/3...

I enjoyed both of these books but liked Night Smoke the best. I really liked Natalie and Ry together. Nightshade has Althea Grayson (Boyd Fletcher's partner from Night Shift) and Colt Nightshade (Boyd's friend) as the h/H. Night Smoke has Boyd's sister Natalie and Ryan Piasecki as the h/H. The main characters from the first two books in the series appear in these two so it is nice to see them again. I would recommend this book even though it is early Nora. Enjoy!
Night Shade: Colt Nightshade and Althea Corayson are cops. She just wants to do her job. Colt wants Althea in many ways but mainly just to be his lover. Colt manages to have sex with her and since that day he is all the Althea thinks about. Night Smoke: Natalie Fletener needs help in order to save her business. Her first choice is arson investigator Ryan Piaseckis. Soon she finds when they meet up for copy he is leaving her wanting more. This book was a HUGE disappointment from the first.
I'm not a huge fan of this series & had these been some of the first Nora Roberts books I had read, I may not be a huge fan of her either. Her story telling has come a very long way. These are some of her earlier works and while entertaining, far from her best. They're very predictable and repetitive of each other. Boy meets girl, girl and boy fall in love, girl & or boy pushes the other away, something life changing happens, they get married and have babies. Wash & repeat.
"Stolen" is actually 2 books in one though the characters are "intertwined". Both books depict very strong women--one a policewoman and the other a CEO of a lingerie company. Both women fall in love with men who are also strong but maybe not quite what the women had expected. Very fast read and interesting stories.
Nightshade= 5 Stars!!Night Smoke= 2 StarsNightshade's the classic "when couples attract" scenario. It was witty and never a dull moment. As for Night Smoke, I was a little disappointed. This is a great author, but the writing technique seemed to be a little off where I couldn't get into the story quite as well as I can in her other books.
Two shorter stories in this novel. The characters tie in to "Night Shift and Night Shadow" So far my favorite was Night Shadow becasue it had a touch of the paranormal stuff I love when Nora Roberts writes. These two are just cute love stories.
Best of the novellas in the book, "Suspicious," the book "Night Moves" should really have been titled "Night Music" as author Nora Roberts plays off her major character being a composer. Both a love story and a mystery to solve a 10-year-old disappearance.
Good story...I liked how even though the stories were unrelated there was a link between the characters. I was disappointed in Night Smoke as the "incident" which broght the characters together was very thin, not typical Roberts style.
The mysteries that there could really be a man with special or super powers like superman, and of course to have money and fame on top of that, of course can't forget handsome. Just puts you in a place that maybe there is something truly out there.
Nightshade includes the story of the previous officer Boyd's partner AthleaNightsmoke includes a sexy arson investigator determined to find the culprit even going so far as to accuse the beautiful owner of the building in question
I enjoyed these 2 books. I don't normally go for romance novels but I was surprised w/ the suspense added to them. they're linked making them more enjoyable. there are twists & turns keeping you going to the end.
Not a typical book for me, but I'm at the beach and wanted something light and easy to read. This book filled the bill.
