https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401939.Touching_from_a_Distance
I have been emotionally compromised by a book. *cries softly into hot cocoa while thinking about Ian Curtis* Okay, Joy Division have incredibly brilliant and beautiful lyrics. While "Love Will Tear Us Apart" is so damn sad it's brilliant in itself. I do lots of good - surprised at what you wouldDon't call me no crud - I really think I'm goodYeah, you think you're something but you're no good for me
No one is saving time travel style) but my own feeling is that Ian had wanted Deborah because of Tony.
Deborah writes that she wondered if he didn't keep his affair drama going to fuel the song fires), the soul poured into art and murdering life like Voldemort's horcruxes in Harry Potter.
But shit, Deborah could not have saved Ian. She keeps pointing out that she never got to hear those songs from Closer.
My suggestion would be to read “The Life of Ian Curtis – Torn Apart” by Mick Middles and Lindsay Reade either while reading this book or directly after reading it.
This may help to buffer some of the incriminations Deborah Curtis brings forward against her long deceased husband.
My problem with Deborah Curtis and this book is that she is generous with details on accounts from Ian’s life provided that they are negative or horrific in nature.
I can’t help but feel that Deborah still hasn’t forgiven her husband for either his infidelity or his abandonment of their little family.
I finally got around to picking it up again, and decided to read from the start because I couldn't remember where I'd left off before - and I'm so glad I did.This is a very touching and painful biography of Ian Curtis's life to read, as told from the close, personal perspective of his widow Deborah Curtis.
The inclusion of a gig list and song lyrics was also excellent, and it's quite disturbing reading some of Ian's later lyrics for the album Closer, after having read of his personal life and emotional state at the time of writing those songs.A great read if you're a fan of Joy Division's music, truly fascinating.
You like Manchester, you like New Order, a fan of Joy Division, want to know more about the man, the myth, the deceased frontman....then read this.
Whatever you probably LOVE Interpol and think they are so original...without Joy Divsion you wouldn't have any of that stuff.
Me lady is a big fan of Joy Division/New Order so we happened to visit Macclesfield (Ian's home and place of death/eternal resting place).
Yeah, this book is also the basis for the Joy Division movie "Control" which should be coming to theatre's soon and THEN you will read this book.
Unlike my more heavy reading habits, I don't feel like this subject matter needs to be fresh in my mind to write a review.
I suppose what sparked a renewed interest in Joy Division and Post-Punk was the fact that I just started listening to The The and I've been pretty impressed.
I'm not sure if I should be glad or disappointed that The The somehow passed by me as a kid; but it has caused me to revisit other bands I liked from this era (e.g. The Cure, early New Order, The Smiths etc).
More than likely many of them are floored that Ian Curtis was a Tory conservative--GASP!!!
I think Deborah Curtis did a good job representing her husband.
The difficulty in reading this book is not that Ian's wife paints him as a racist, violent, abusive, controlling, insecure, right-wing mess of a human being, but that this boring housewife (how could he ever have had any interest in her?) portrays herself wholly as a victim for the first half of the book.
One can only feel that the latter half of the book was less a product of her perceptions than what she gleaned later from the band, which makes the book feel ultimately a little dishonest and not wholly accurate.
4 Stars.I don't really have any opinions on this book.I have never properly listened to Joy Division but I have been interested in Ian Curtis as a person, and reading this has made me realise that he was a lot more of a complicated character than I had expected.This was a dark, interesting read and has definitely made me want to give non fiction more of a try.
Just relax!"My sister Jill had a friend who worked looking after the teeth of people in institutions and Ian loved to hear of patients with extra breasts along the nipple line.
A simple harmless deformity would fire his imagination." I really don't understand this.
Is "extra breasts along the nipple line" a teeth thing?
An extra nipple could be described as "a simple harmless deformity", but I'm not sure why a dentist would know about this.
Is an extra breast "a simple harmless deformity"?
I'm too scared to Google "extra breasts along the nipple line".
If you've seen the movie "Control" and/or "24 Hour Party People", you might want to read this book as it strips away the "myth from the man" to reveal Ian's, rather intense, character flaws and emotional issues that pre-date his epilepsy.
If anything, she comes off as still having a bit of hero worship for the guy even after he lies about her to the band, picks up a mistress, and abandons her.Ian Curtis was a young man with serious problems and as his popularity grew he turned away from his family, especially his wife.
Readers of this book have to remember that just because Deborah Curtis was married to Ian, she doesn't have special insight into his personality.
All biographies are CONSTRUCTS - and reading this book brings you no closer (yes, I used that word) to Ian than simply spinning one of Joy Division's records.The essential problem with the book is that DC presents IC as such a one-dimensional character - a rat bastard and terrible husband.
Also, the narrative reads like the product of an author with a personality disorder (yes, I used that word, too).
Finally, if you read this book, pay specific attention to its diction, especially when DC discusses Ian's lyrics.
Having seen Control for the third time, I was very eager to read this book.
Unsurprisingly, the book written by Deborah, gave me, and not only me, the sad, dejecting and on the other hand, beautiful image of a person, whose only wish was to become famous and release an LP and a single.
This book, bearing in mind being subjective, gave me a further insight into Deborah and Ian's problematic life.
He could not control his life anymore, and yet he did not ask anybody for help.
This is an mildly interesting read, though it's probably only of interest to fans of Joy Division, Factory and the late 70's Manchester Post-Punk scene.
Deborah Curtis's writing could definitely use more life, but as far as a document of events it functions ably.
Of special interest to Joy Division fans will be the small collection of color photos from Curtis's family life, and the appendices (at least in this edition), which include not only lyrics for Joy Division's entire catalog, but also previously unpublished or unused lyrics and writings, a complete "gig list," and a discography.

Per lungo tempo ho evitato di acquistarlo, nonostante Jan Curtis sia uno degli idoli della mia adolescenza: pensavo di sapere quello che mi aspettava. E infatti: mi è dispiaciuta la non obiettività . Il punto di vista è unilaterale, quello di una moglie dopo tanti anni incredibilmente livorosa. Ma anche il tono sciatto. Una scrittura a due mani non avrebbe certo nociuto. Che sbaglio, leggerlo. Voglio che i miei "Idoli" rimangano sul piedistallo, quasi "non-umani"...
In Touching From a Distance, Deborah Curtis retells the life of her husband, Ian Curtis - the lead singer and founder of the British punk band Joy Division.
Deborah chronically Ian's tragically short life from childhood antics, to secondary school indifference and the start of his obsessions with striking it big and dying young.
Curtis, with the help of quotes from several others paints a picture of a man determined to be a legend.I started Touching from a Distance with no idea who Ian Curtis or Joy Division were.
It is obvious that Curtis did her research, talking to everyone else involved with Ian and Joy Division.
My favorite JD songs, in no particular order: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JxuIh_... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRnWYA... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_4pScq... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Mz5AE... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fhCLal... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GQSpJf... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GL9rSA... I'm including these because I've definitely been in a Joy Division type of mood lately (winters in the Hub have a very Manchester-esque bleakness and bitterness, I'd imagine, among other, more personal, bleaker things) and because only songs like these can begin to explain or redeem such a pretentious, selfish, maudlin, afflicted, spineless little creep.
Some parts are a bit flat and reportorial, while others are raw and harrowing. The sections about Ian Curtis's epilepsy are particularly troubling in their implications. This account shreds many of the romantic notions surrounding Joy Division, without ever quite touching the mystery of the music itself.
She alternates between trash-talking Ian to saying how much she loves him, and what a good wife she was to him.
Through the entire narrative, Deborah portrays herself as the perfect, sweet and innocent wife, abandoned by her fickle husband.
Toward the end of the book, she also talks about a strong "bond" she and Ian shared, yet through the ENTIRE book accuses Ian of being distant and withdrawn from her and Natalie.Personally, I would NOT recommend reading this book, but if you do, pay attention to the contradictions in her narrative and how clean she comes off in her little story.
The band that smacked me right across the gob and changed me forever was Joy Division.By the time I heard the astonishing voice and, yes, haunting words of Ian Curtis, he had been dead at least 3 years by his own hand.
If I sound like a driveling fan-girl, it is because I am!Now that we are in a period of Joy Division nostalgia, with the success of last year's indie biopic, Control, about Curtis's life and the formation of the band, it might be of interest to other fans to make mention of the book penned by Curtis's widow.
I LOVE LOVE LOVE Joy Division and Ian Curtis' lyrics.
However the 2nd part of the book tends to take a look at Ian's whole situation (at least from his wife's point of view).
Debbie Curtis does leave you with the impression that he never intended to live beyond his twenties and took his life while he would be remembered a legend like many of his idols.
All in all this was an short, but interesting look into Ian's life.On a side note.
It is very interesting knowing the story and going back and reading the lyrics to his songs.
I knew something about Ian Curtis before I started reading, certainly have loved Joy Division for years.
Here's the thing: Deborah Curtis got hurt in a mean way.
And then you get this book and you have to freakin' read about it.
It leaves me with the incredible shouting inside my head: "THIS IS ONLY HER SIDE OF THE STORY!"I still love Joy Division.Still have all the admiration for Ian Curtis as a musician, but for nothing else.Will want to read some other book about the actual band at one time and forget about this one.
"I probably cannot be trusted at all when it comes to reviewing anything Joy Division, but I do believe that Deborah Curtis honest and gripping story will appeal to anyone - and be utterly indispensable for anyone into Ian's work."
i expected more from this one.his personality demand more from biographer. it was necessary to have another dimension, but all you get are facts.still, if you're interested in curtis, you have to read this book. for informations, at least.i recommend the film: control.
perskaičiau per dvi dienas autobuse, važiavau nuo Subačiaus stotelės iki Jono Kazlausko, tikrai neblogai
An intense read and a very sad story: albeit well written. Deborah Curtis writes from the heart and shares with us her memories and journey as an innocent and helpless bystander in Ian Curtis's life. Left to raise their daughter alone, my heart goes out to this poor woman. Very sad indeed. I had to put this book aside for a time as i felt depressed by the whole situation. When you read what some people have to put up with in life, it makes you grateful that your life is ok.
So tragic and sad. Found it really hard to read the last few pages even tho I knew how the story went, v sad.
This book, Touching from a Distance: Ian Curtis and Joy Division, is Deborah Curtis’ attempt to rest her husband’s ghost to rest.
While it didn’t hit the bull’s eye of the reasons of the suicide, it still gave devoted fans a glimpse of the rock icon when he was not on their minds’ highest pedestals.
D.Curtis didn’t feel the need to further develop the typical rock-star myths revolving around his husband, being a prominent icon emerging from the music scene of his decade.
I must say, though, that it didn’t make me like Joy Division—or Ian Curtis—less.
However, the story saved them both from being completely tossed from King's school.4-8-11Now that I have finished the book, Curtis, as his wife Deborah tells it, was, to put it mildly, not a very good husband to her or father to Natalie who was barely into her second year of life when her father hung himself from a clothes rack in the utility room of the family home, a jolting "fuck you" act calculated to give Mrs. Curtis the finger, as if his unconscionable affair with Belgian Rock Journo Annick Honore hadn't torn Mrs. Curtis asunder already.
Deborah Curtis' version is certainly not flattering for Ian. The tone of the book is bitter and resentful, even if it was written many years after the events.She narrates how Ian and herself met, how the introverted but charming guy persuaded her to get married and how their marriage disintegrated under a lot of pressure from (but not necessarily in this order): lack of money; Ian's depression and epilepsy; his struggle to became famous; jealousy; the birth of a child thrown in into this mess, etc…Malevolent remarks are directed against everybody connected with Ian's band.
