https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159979.The_Image
My dad wrote this book. I remember stamping the pages with a rubber number-stamper on our dining room table. He'd spent ten years on his latest volume of The Americans; this he wrote in three months. This endures.
Boorstin is like the little boy who shouts, "the emperor has no clothes." He helps us to peel away the veneer, the false fronts.McCarthy was an expert at creating reportable events that had "an ambiguous relationship to the underlying reality." He invented the morning news conference that announced an afternoon press conference.
Organizations manipulate the media to create events all the while castigating the press for opinions on the editorial page.Boorstin argues we now confuse fame with greatness.
The demand for digested articles was so great it had forced the creation of articles to meet the demand: a literary pseudo-event.We are now engaged in a competition to create more credible images.
The central point of the book is so incisive that it not only survived the major technological and cultural shifts of the last 50 years but is made stronger by them: Most ofe take as important or news is image and artifice.
As far as I can tell it means nothing, except perhaps a naive desire to receive credit for something you're not taking any action to produce.
This book is critical to understanding Western culture and its direction.
"Always the play; never the thing"A superbly titled and entirely prescient book, this one.
As America's Graphic Revolution was spiraling with television, movies, and other 'images' created for easy consumption, Boorstin wrote about how there is simultaneously much more and much less to everything we see.
Boorstin died in 2004, so how did he not go crazy through the Lewinsky scandal, Paris Hilton, 'reality' television, the Colbert Report, the 24-hour news cycle, and internet news aggregates / blogs?
I suppose each of the chapters presented in this book has spawned entire genres of 'image' studies: behind the scenes of the media, celebrity worship, digestible movie adaptations, etc.
Skimmed thoroughly. Would love to have an excuse, such as a book club discussion, to read carefully as it's well-written and still relevant. However, much info. is that which I've already encountered elsewhere, or figured out for myself, and given that I'm on a time crunch, I chose not to read every word. Recommended to anyone interested in sociology, advertising, popular media, politics.
In our desire, we have come to prefer illusion to reality because reality can't possibly come up to our expectations.This book was written in 1961 and, though the celebrities mentioned are from the 1920's to the 1950's, Boorstin's thesis holds true today.We live in a self-referential world of images, of pseudo-news (packaged "news" instead of spontaneous events), of celebrities that are known for being known, of "adventure" vacations that are packaged so that nothing unexpected will happen.Never bored, and never resentful of the illusions that make up our world, we are instead fascinated even by the process that creates them.
These include the changing role of the news media from relaying spontaneous news (crime, accidents, governmental proceedings) to creating news to be reported (press releases, publicity stunts, interviews, etc.); the replacement of the hero with the celebrity; the replacement of the traveler with the tourist; the increasing ubiquity of different forms of art melding into one another (books becoming movies becoming television shows, etc.); the rise of the importance of the public image to both companies and consumers; and finally, the reliance on creating an "image" of America that is suitable for exportation to other countries and suitable for consumption by Americans themselves.
Anyone reading it today will probably be struck by how Boorstin identifies trends that are so prevalent today -especially the way society is fixated on images rather than the underlying reality.Some might call Boorstin prescient but it's more accurate to say that he was an astute observer of what was already happening in the mid-20th century as the era of television was making sweeping changes in society.
As more people than ever before read, travel, vote and participate in politics, watch TV and movies, and otherwise partake of culture, and at the same time technology accelerates, more events and items take on a mass-produced quality.
I loved reading it and have been enjoying talking about it.
celebrity and how we allow daily, hourly, minute-to-minute information into our lives and try to paint it as meaningful.
Over-saturation makes one common.
I get that; it can be a challenge to read and watch stuff that is self-conscious.
I suppose that detachment, that ability to reflect what one sees without tainting it with too much of an agenda makes the great creators great.
This book also made me think about all the images I am bombarded with in daily life.
This book is Boorstin's diatribe against the promotion of "image" over reality.
His denunciation is even more relevant today, 50 years after it was published (consider not just regular TV news, but the explicitly party-line hacks who pose as reporters and spend time on trivial issues; and, Jon Stewart who pretends to be a comedian to comment on the news).
Boorstin's book is not a balanced presentation of both sides of the questions he ponders.
Still, it is worth pushing through those curmudgeonly Luddite broadsides because every chapter will also question some aspect of modern life.
Inciteful look at trends in media and modern life. Saw a lot in the early 1960s that would still be important shapers of life in the early twenty-first century. The deluge of media and pseudo events that now largely make up our screenspace these days.
Provocative though a little "get off my lawn!".
As we Americans obsess over fake news and alternative facts in the wake of Trump's presidential election, Daniel Boorstin's 55 year-old reflection on the proliferation of "pseudo-events" in American life reminds us that "fake" is a spectrum, and we're very nearly blind to all but the most extreme end.
Boorstin also presents a critique of "celebrity" compared to "hero," which is all well and good, except he fails to explain why the "hero" is such a valuable social concept.
He also criticizes the fact that we now want to humanize our heroes and recognize their flaws.
Today in entertainment Nicki Minaj tweeted that Taylor Swift parked in a handicapped spot and laughed while a 87 year old woman had to push her walker 3 blocks to her chemotherapy appointment. Swift quickly accused Minaj of bathing in the tears of infants upon whom she extinguishes her lit cigarettes.  In case you haven’t noticed, much of what passes for ‘news’ these days is anything but. It’s a mish-mash of public relations, opinion, trial balloons, 2nd hand stories, press conferences, spin, a
Lester Holt, opening the nightly news: “You know, absolutely nothing of importance happened today, so we’ll be back another day when we actually have something newsworthy to report.
And there’s a lot he doesn’t like … the kids these days with their recorded music and paperback books and packaged vacations and movie stars and Reader’s Digests and TV news and airplanes and best-sellers and public relations and picture cameras and Muzak and museums and publicists and art reproductions and screenplays and hi-fi stereos and corporate logos and anything that’s considered popular and everything else that a self-proclaimed authenticity expert like Boorstin deems to be fakery and while you’re at it get off my damn lawn!
Reads like it was written in the last year rather than the 60s. Boorstin was prophetic in his description of American culture.
Cynical. Vital.
More like 3.5.
Although somewhat dated (published 1961), his argument that the increase of "image making" since the onset of what he calls the Graphic Revolution (beginning with prolferation of print in the early 1800s, enhanced by advances in illustrative techniques, photograpy, etc.
I have some quibbles with some of Boorstein reasonings in parts, but the history of these technological advances was fascinatin to me in itself.
My own opinion is that any evaluation of this idealism was likely colored by which end of the gun one was on, but I cynically digess.
Written by U.S. historian and writer Daniel Boorstin in 1961 this book focuses on what the author even back at the beginning of the Kennedy administration called the ‘pseudo events’ in our ( U.S.
While I’m a fan of Boorstin ( see The Discoverers ) and I have a lot of sympathy with his view of particular areas of society , e.g. journalism or advertising , I’m not sure his overall criticism is warranted .
His view is probably fairly elitist and has little time for popular culture.
Also of some interest is the light that his thesis throws on the culture and nature of the U.S. where most of these ‘pseudo event’ originated.
This is a curious book.
Everyone reads this book when they take Media Studies classes in college.
When in college, the student reading the book is usually on the good side of history.
In college, this book can help make a person a better anti-capitalist, but soon after graduation this book gets dusted off and packed away into the suitcase that the former idealist takes to countless job interviews at marketing firms.This book is a lot like art school: it sounds like a good idea in theory, but you better be careful or you'll just end up working in advertising.
Originally published in 1962, this book was both an illuminating and a frustrating read. Parts of Boorstin's theories are still applicable to today, and as someone interested in marketing and journalism (and who lives outside the nation's capital), his discourses on advertising, news, and politics were relevant to my life. However, I found other parts of this book totally outdated, or otherwise completely disagreed with him. Also, I find it ironic that he implies that paperback "reprints" of hardcover are essentially used to game the publishing system (and are therefore bad)...and I read this book as a paperback.
Boorstin introduces the idea of a "pseudo-event", the event created for the purpose of coverage. Interesting reflection on the dominance of imagery.
The seminal non-academic work on media studies. Along with Walter Lippmann's Public Opinion, it forms an indispensable diptych for understanding how politics and culture mediate our democracy.
We wanted a reality that exceeded what was actually out there.Quotes:"Every day seeing there and hearing there takes the place of being there.""Having read a good deal about the villains who are said to be responsible for our perplexity - the hidden persuaders, the organization men, Madison Avenue, Washington bureaucracy, the eggheads, the anti-intellectuals, the power elite, etc., etc., etc.
It is simplified, and it is ambiguous.""Images are the pseudo-events of the ethical world.
Boorstin gets a little too cynical in parts, but even then, his words are incredibly profound.
Importantly, he believes that these are new currents in American culture, directly stemming from the Graphic Revolution (which Boorstin dates to the invention of dry-plate photography in 1873 (13)).First, materialism was hardly new.
The mainstream of the human passions runs in this direction and sweeps everything along with it” (619).Second, Boorstin's lamentation that the decline of American ideals is responsible for cultural and civic decline ignores the historical events of the period preceding the Graphic Revolution.
This failure of American ideals was observed by another outsider, a former slave—Frederick Douglass—speaking on the 5th of July, 1852: “Your high independence only reveals the immeasurable distance between us.
What is worth noting, however, is that Boorstin's emotion and bombastic writing really does emerge from a deep-seated love and concern for American society, so perhaps he can't be faulted for this.Originally published in 1962, The Image is really an extended description of what images have done to society, how they have changed attitudes and perspectives and even whole ways of living.
That his descriptions and understandings of these problems are just as relevant now as they were in 1962 speaks to the prescience of his voice and the overall nature of his almost prophetic character.
However there are simply not enough real news that are of interest to us.
Soon this creates a world where the Image is more important than the substance.
They tell us how to speak, how to dress, sometimes down to the exact word or phrase, to craft our Image.
Celebrities have images that are packaged.
Boorstin suggests that we do more critical thinking, do some real travelling and read the original everything as much as we can.
After 50 years, his words are even more pertinent to our time where we have become Instagram and Facebook people, literal Images of our real selves.
Each chapter approaches his thesis in a different area of American life: politics, travel, publishing, the movies, etc.
Some of the chapters drag because the examples he uses to make his arguments no longer feel that compelling—do we care that much about Thomas Cook and American Express's travel services?
I would love to read Boorstin's take on travel in a world of Tripadvisor and flights cheaper than he could have imagined, while the studio system for creating Hollywood stars was likely more fascinating to readers in 1961 than it is today.
We have "progressed" to the point where pseudo-events are presented as news and covered as such.
But then a politician issues a press release about the senator's death, and the press release is covered as news.
It's not; it's a pseudo-event, managed and finessed by the politician's handlers.
Then another politician tweets about the press release--another pseudo-event, even further distanced from the actual news event.
Then the talking heads are brought on TV to take one side or the other about the tweet, and we are devolving further and further away from the actual reality into an image of reality.The same thing happens in entertainment, best selling books, award shows.
Written by a consensus historian in 1961,  The Image  describes how Americans in the late 19th and 20th centuries created a "graphic revolution" in which images held prominence over ideals, truths, and meaning.
The vehicles that placed (and place) images at the forefront of American society are pseudo-events.
It was a creation of the people.
With the democratization of society and the creation of the "masses", pseudo-events exist to give the people what they want and what they have asked for.
Unfortunately, this has created a hollow and flabby existence that undermines the essence of what these images hope to accomplish.
