https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/344157.Rilke
I. Should. Not. Write. Again. Ever. BUT YOU SHOULD READ THIS (especially, if, like me, you first read Rilke as a lovesick teenager writing horrible poetry and liked his work okay, and didn't think about him again for years)...
Pesme izvan mojih trenutnih interpretativnih mogućnosti.
Outstanding. This book is like medecine for my apathy. It humbled me, reminded me that in spite of the pointlessness that runs like a thread through our lives, in spite of all the anxiousness, the insecurities, the feeling of inferiority, of puniness, there is so much to live for, if only you can (dare to) see it. I love this so much.
I fell in love with Rilke's poetry from quotes I found here and there.
Now, after reading this collection, I fell in love with him fully and completely.
What I love most about his poems is the depth of feeling they inspire.
There were many times when I wanted te read some verses again and again, until I could feel them saved in mind.
The images and feelings these poems have woken in me are still vivid and will probably remain as such for a long time.
Or...maybe I did, and I'm totally underwhelmed.
I loved Rilke's "Letters To a Young Poet", and that's what made me want to look his poems up.
I kept feeling like each poem started building momentum to reach significance, but I was robbed of my expectation each and every time.
Poor Rilke.
Just tell me one thing, did I understand you or not?To be fair, I only read about 60 pages before I started to think I was wasting my time.
If anyone thinks I might change my mind on a poem I haven't read of his, please steer me straight.
If you're a fan of Rilke, you'll enjoy this compact book of his poems. The book contains poems from: The Book of Images; New Poems; Requiem for a Friend; Poems, 1906-1926; French Poems; The Life of Mary; Sonnets to Orpheus; The Duino Elegies; Letters to a Young Poet; and an index of first lines. My personal favorite is the French Poems, especially "Child in Red". To have a multitude of his poems from various books compiled into one creates an interesting view of Rilke's work as a whole.
My rating reflects my view of the relative merit of the translations. Frankly, I don't care for J.B. Leishman's translations, although they're better than some of the bizarre renderings others have put out.
I don't really "get" poetry.
Cornucopia...
Is there anything better than Rilke to make you think about your life? And how you live it? And how others live in and out of your life? His "Requiem for a Friend" poem was given to me recently and I had forgotten how moving his work could be. I keep coming back to him, about every 10 years or so. There is no better sign of a classic than one that evolves with you.
