https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567616.The_Art_Book
It takes 500 different artists and shows one work from each of them.
It often left me wanting more -- I expected this book to serve as a jump-off point, so that's a good thing.
I should note that, being an art book, there is a bit of nudity in here.
But that's an entirely different debate...Note: there are two versions of this book: A large coffee-table sized one published in 1994, and a smaller pocket-sized one published in 2005.
I read the big one, which was nice, because the pictures were full-page and I could see them well.
Much to my husband's dismay, I took the binding off this book and put each page in a page protector; it now takes up two binders. But now, for $19.95 plus page protectors and binders, I have over 500 pieces of art that can be passed around my classroom.Well, most of them can be passed around my classroom. I'm struggling with the nudity. Why is it more acceptable to me in an ancient Greek statue than in modern art? Hmmmmm...
I got this as a gift recently and I must say it's amazing.
I enjoy this book because of the variety of different artists in it; all of which have contributed to my fascination with art in some way.
I know some of the artists pretty well and some are completely new to me, and I love that.
I could spend hours just flicking through this book and still not have read/studied it completely.
I don't think I'll ever get bored of this book.
It would make a great gift or coffee table book too.
This was really an interesting concept.
Hundreds of artists, drawn from many times, movements, places, one page spread per artist--one work, one short explanation, a little attempt to locate the artist in time and movement.
I couldn't stay out of this at work--we kept going back, opening it up, arguing over whether the work chosen was the right one.
And one other caveat--this might not be a good choice for a conservative homeschool family.
But this was really, really fun and if you have a friend or two that knows a little bit about artists, you can have some really, really fun discussions/arguments/lively conversations about the artwork choices.
Plain and simple: This was the book that made me fall in love with the visual arts. Almost every time I went to the library as a girl, I would borrow this book. I would sit and look at it for hours, never getting bored with it. I still haven't purchased this book for my collection, but I am planning on it soon!
very simple, a photo of the artist work, brief about the artistit gives you hints, not very helpful but it's a joy to the eye, you can like a painting or a sculpture and go do the research yourself, witch is not a bad idea after all, that is not a bad idea after all
It also seems unfair to have some amazing, iconic painters reduced to just one work of art, which is hardly representative of their overall contribution, whereas others (especially some of the more contemporary artists) could easily have been left out of the book altogether.The print quality might have been ok 20 years ago (my copy is the 1994 large format coffee table version, not the more recent 2005 pocket size edition), but is below average by today's standards.
It is a matter of taste of course, but I found too much art I didn't care for and thus will most likely not be keeping the book.There are also some fairly obvious errors in the book, where the captions talk about one painting, but the picture is of a completely different one altogether.
this book presents a fresh and original approach to art.It is an essential reference to those of us who are always looking for inspiration..And a good visual sourcebook too..
Love this book - it is alphabetical order of artists, with a picture of their work, and some biological detail. I particularly love the big version, that I saw at a school. The mini version I have at home is a bit small for some of the detail to come through.
I just luvvvv this book. i carry it around whenever i have to travel because it is fun to read and reread. it teaches you a lot about art in accessible and convenient way. Just the kind of book you like reading. hours can pass by and you barely notice it. :) luv it!
This book is the Linkin Park of the art book world. Granted it doesn't have to be as scrupulous as a doctor giving a prostate exam but it's still quite vague and doesn't give much away. Still useful if you're doing your GCSEs though.
I guess, no real artits really read this art book. But, this book is very artsy on the cover and 1000 times more artsy inside. And best of all, it's from Phaidon.
This really should have been called The Western Art Book. There is only one Asian artist represented, and Latin America is limited to a few Cubans and Mexicans. Everyone else is completely absent.Unlike other reviews, I actually liked the alphabetical arrangement of the artists, as it really demonstrated the diversity of the North American and European art tradition. You have this on one page and this on the next.
So getting this book was a natural follow-up.
It won Illustrated Book of the Year and is in the Top Five Popular Art Books on Goodreads.
I'm not the kind that collects those--in fact this is the only book of the kind I own.
But if any such book should be part of every home, surely its an art book like this one, where the great Western artists and (alas only) one of their representative masterpieces is laid before you.
This is also by far the heaviest book I own--you could do strength training with it--but it's worth its weight.
It would be a mistake to take this book for what it is not: a serious, in-depth treatise on art.
No, it's a picture book that gives almost twitter-like info on artists.
I also enjoyed the little gimmick: listing artists in alphabetical order juxtaposes somebody like Lorenzo Lotto with Louis Morris.
It reminds me of a similar encyclopedia of painting I used as a young teen.
This might similarly spur young art lovers to explore further.
It gives an over view of art and some important works. Information on the art contained in the book is limited but enables you to go look further. Also lists contact details for major Galleries in the back. My copy is a small version however the photos of the art work are printed clearly and you can see all the textures of the paintings as well. Make sure this isn't your only art book in your library, but definately a good place to start when loking for reference, or pictures, or styles, or whatever you are looking for.
I love this little goodie. At least mine is little, I think they made two sizes. It's great to flip through. When needing inspiration or just procrastinating. It's fun to discover a new artist or new work by one you've known.
that book is very good, in this book your can learn more about the art and in this book have something is so surprised for me. one is for the this book have 500 different artists and shows one work from each of them. other thing is for the the art have mandy year's old and have mandy people want to learn more about art. this book can for some one didn't know art and that can geive some one want to learn word art thay can read that book.
This book helped me as an art novice to get a feel for certain artists and styles. The pictures are of a very good quality and the book itself is a monster. It was fun flipping through this and getting snippets about various artists and genres. Each page has a reference to similar artists, giving one the opportunity to keep in theme if desired and learn about related artists.
The perfect prescription for someone who thinks Kupka might have something to do with the continuing cup-cake craze.A artist, a picture, a critique, a list of recommendations to other artists of the same school. A pared down minimalistic approach which works. And pocket sized too (a wide pocket). Educational and, what's better, memorable.
Though it might frustrate those looking for an in-depth analysis, The Art Book is great for casual appreciation or anyone who doesn't know where to start. I personally enjoyed the huge variety of wildly different pieces sitting side by side.
An everyday book for Everyman. Quite nice for the coffee table or for the kids to flick through. It does what the title says so probably deserves 5 stars but it lacks sufficient depth or enquiry for my tastes..
Great little book if you take it for what it is - something to dip into to stimulate ideas or discussion... or simply pages to flick through to look at interesting works of art. Not for the academics, but that's part of the appeal.
Remember how this book was seen throughout the whole Friends series? First at Central Perk, then at Monica's. Now it's on my shelf, thanks to Patty :) It's actually a nice read if you're into arts and stuff, and of course I cannot brag for reading it, rather browsed through.
This is a nifty little book (or a nifty big book, if you have the hardcover edition). It only scratches the surface, but it covers a lot of ground. It's a wonderful book for browsing.
I refer to this little book quite often. I am always looking for artists and their styles. I keep it very handy. It's a must have.
This book is small is size, but a great art book. It was my daughter's first art book of her own and she would sit for hours looking at the art.
This book is simply a masterpiece. I love it.
This book is well-written and well-edited. It is hard to put down.
I owed the original version of this book, so when I heard there will be a reprint with updated content, I jumped on this chance.
This book is an A-Z listing of some famous artists.
Some you will most definitely have heard of, many you have not.
The book has ALL types of artists...sculptors, performance artists, traditional paint.
They are put back to back in this book, organized only by their last name, so you will see some interesting contrasts in their styles and presentation.
This is a wonderful book for art fans, as well as those who are art curious.
I HIGHLY recommend this book!
