https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7679.The_Terminal_Man
So. Much. Coffee.
The Terminal Man  is so far my least favorite of all Michael Crichton's novels. (I'm almost finished reading all of his fiction books.) But I couldn't rate it lower than three-stars, because this is Crichton, for pity's sake. He's one of my favorite authors. And I suppose the tremendous research and effort dedicated in this book is worth an additional star. Okay, so this is about a man named Benson who frequently had violent seizures. People from the Neuropsychiatric Research Unit decided to ap
(I'm almost finished reading all of his fiction books.) But I couldn't rate it lower than three-stars, because this is Crichton, for pity's sake.
Nevertheless, I felt really educated after reading this because Crichton still inserted several tidbits every now and then, especially during dialogues (the briefing/ interview part of Benson was cleverly used).
And I felt like I wasn't able to get to know the characters better.The writing could be better.
But the thrill only arrived towards the end of the book, which was unlike Crichton's other novels (as there was usually a continuous dose of thrill available all throughout).
As 'playing God' goes, the doctors involved fall a few steps short of Frankenstein or Jekyll, but they engage in quite a lot of back-slapping, words-of-caution-ignoring and unhatched-chicken-counting.
Needless to say a garden-variety thriller breaks out.What sets The Terminal Man apart is how thoroughly researched it is; we're talking 5 pages of bibliography and technical references for a short novel.
The bulk of the story comes pre-op; detailing the science and personalities in play while the inevitable rampage ends up feeling rushed and perfunctory.
It makes me wonder whether he could've cut the thriller elements entirely and just given us a story of complex people and their complex experiments.
Years ago, I saw "The Andromeda Strain" & then saw this book, so I picked it up. It was pretty good & was an early explorer of man-computer interfacing. It also shows the fallacy of positive feedback as a form of control. There's a fair amount of gore & the hospital descriptions really impressed me. It might be a bit dated now, though. If you have to hunt up a volume, try to find the first hardback. It had some good, if a bit gruesome, illustrations in it, as I recall.
This is a classic 'man orchestrates his own downfall' or 'man created monster' warning tale, but at the same time it is a quick paced thriller.
The reader can get a sense of the complicated nature of neuropsychiatry, and how little we understand the human brain (or at least how little we understood it in 1972) while not feeling like they are reading a fear-monger's treatise on the subject.
This story specifically centers around a man named Henry Benson whom has brain damage, and partially due to this damage he has episodes of uncontrollable rage and psychosis, this man is also brilliant in his own right.
I had high hopes for this book after reading Crichton's 'The Andromeda Strain.' I thought it would be another techno-thriller with the same kind of intriguing ideas and medical realism that would make the plot believeable and far-fetched at the same time.
Even if I try and place myself in the early 1970's (when the book was published) and pretend that the comparison of man to a computer is a new and exciting revelation I would still have a problem with the ham-fisted ways that Crichton goes about comparing man and machine.
I didn't start reading a Michael Crichton book expecting strong characterization; I was expecting a page turner with under-developed but mostly-believable larger than life characters.
The Terminal Man by Michael Crichton.One of Crichton's earlier works The Terminal Man is not as polished or as engaging as his later Science Fiction or Medical Fiction, but the hint of greatness is definitely evident and despite the fact that the books is 41 years old this year the story is still a compelling read with a few unexpected twists and turns.
The technical medical term (I looked it up) is "psychomotor epilepsy." Medical science steps in to try to an experiment in mind control, embedding a series of wires in the mans brain with a computer control to spark the right synapses when it detects that a seizure is about to happen.
It was rather ironic to jump from Henry Marsh’s account to Michael Crichton and both these books are based on neurosurgery.
The important point to note was that these two books are as different as chalk and cheese.
Having read through almost all of Crichton’s oeuvre, I think this is one of his weakest books.The premise is standard Crichton fare of science running amok and how we finally fix it.
It goes like :Scientists goof up.Trouble begins and goes unnoticed.
Trouble escalates.People die.Heroes step in.Wham, bam, thank you ma’am and sirs !The end.There you have it !
Science, you are too naughty !
A typical Crichton thriller; It's a casual airport novel which is fast-paced, has a lot of action, chases, coffee drinking, cigarette smoking and some violence.
It seems a bit dated with its talk of the growing omnipresence of computers in our day to day life and an eye on the potential growth in the future along with the drastic growth in their power and functions.
The narrative is pretty fast, doesn't leave much scope for major character development except the main lead and the book suffers from making some obvious revelations in the earlier part of the book which makes a few later actions of the characters quite obvious.
While he is recovering, a woman named Angela Black gives Morris a wig for Benson, whose head was shaved prior to the operation.Morris goes back to his normal work, where he interviews a man who volunteers to have electrodes put into his mind to stimulate pleasure.
Morris goes to his job, and meets Benson's boss who said that Benson feared the University Hospital because of its ultra-modern computer system, an upgraded IBM System/360Ross is contacted by Anders, a policeman who found Benson's dogtag at the murder scene of Angela Black.
Benson comes to the attention of a group of surgeons, doctors & a psychiatrist collectively called the Neuro-Psychiatric Service, at the University Hospital, who have been experimenting with 'interfacing' a computer with the human brain to control aberrant behavior, by the use of electrodes implanted in the brain.
It's been 40+ years since Crichton published this novel & if it were good it would be considered a classic, instead of merely dated.
Crichton has never been known for his ability at building believable or sympathetic characters, but in 'The Terminal Man' he takes this to new heights (or depths, depending how you look at it).
It is also maybe the best Crichton book I have read so far.
Like any good book by this man, it’s not just the mesmerising combo between high concept science and page-turning thrills, but the exploration of whatever idea was currently giving him nightmares.
It’s simply the idea that man will one day lose his individual self, replacing his brain - (his very soul) - with computer technology.
Also, while good Crichton is always fun, even his best books suffer from flat, unlikable characters.
And while I’m sure that some would say the same for Terminal Man, I actually liked everyone in this book.
At first, I thought that this book was going to be purely medical fiction, and did not expect to understand much or enjoy it.
This would be controlled by a miniature computer (second "brain"), which is also implanted in his body.
The story is mostly about the aftermath of this operation.Written way back in 1971, the author very nicely explains how the computer is similar to a human brain.
This book screams "Machines are going to take over the world" all the way.
The author wanted this point to be driven home.I enjoyed reading this book as it is fast paced, and quite thrilling.
Computers were brand new technology in 1971 and Crichton's book focuses on the fears that people had about computers getting too powerful.
Usually Crichton's books are chilling in their accounts of science going awry but, unfortunately in this case, his imagined fears are not so scary or believable in 2010.
The technology is not the only thing out dated about this book.
Overall, forgiving the fact that this book is from a different time, the plot is still predictable and the characters are not that interesting.
The full review is available at the following link:http://bookunderthesun.blogspot.com/2...Although he is not the protagonist of the story, the whole event revolved around Harry Benson, a patient suffering from a violent seizure known as Acute Disinhibitory Lesions, or ADL (not sure if it is a real syndrome).
The story explores the psychotic fear of Harry against machines as he viewed machines as an intelligence that will ultimately take over human, and the implantation of a computer chip to help control his seizures is only adding to his fear.
Harry Benson is a computer analyst who works for the DOD and thinks machines are taking over the world.
Most of the medical staff at University Hospital think he's a perfect candidate for surgery - implantation of a computer in his brain to stop the impulses triggering these seizures.
Then the race is on.With a premise like that, this should have been an excellent book.
There was too much medical and computer speak, as well as too much interaction with the hospital staff and their hopes and dreams for fame and fortune.
Granted some of this is necessary but 2/3 of the book?
It is dated for the 21st century, but his style and formula is fairly clear as far back as the early 1970's.
The only difference is that there is a little more character development than in his later novels.
I think Crichton finished it like that in order to generate talk and discussion about the subject at hand.
I would have loved to have heard an interview with Crichton in the 21st century regarding the subject matter.
The only difference is that it actually helps my brother to arrest seizure activity and he is hardly more machine for it.
It seems to follow the book quite well so far.
Michael Crichton has always written books much ahead of his time, yet it is difficult to believe that this book was first published in 1972.
The story revolves around the complications created when machines take control of humans (a precursor of Artificial Intelligence in recent times).
Some chapters are spine-chilling especially the conversation between Benson and Dr.Ross at the latter's house, reminds of the conversation in Silence of the Lambs between Judie Foster and Anthony Hopkins.
The best part of the book is that it can be finished in 2 - 3 sittings for an average reader, thus proving that thrillers need not really be lengthy and tortuous.
Quite an excellent story, Crichton, once again, kept me on the edge of my seat throughout the whole book.
The only reason why I don't give this book the 5 stars is because the ending leaves you on the edge, there are some unanswered questions that I am still curious about.
I am hoping that the film has an ending that will help me out with some closure.
That being said, The Terminal Man is an excellent story, ahead of its time and very relevant right now.
The Terminal Man was interesting, in its way. It's an older Michael Crichton book and isn't as polished or as intense as his later works. It's another of his books that I would recommend only to hardcore Crichton fans. I had some difficulty understanding Harry's actions, even though they were fully explained in the book. I'm not sure if this was more about me not comprehending the psychological/medical/technological aspects of the book or if the book wasn't basic enough for a lay-person.
Esta novela fue escrita en 1971 y las cosas que cuenta eran ciencia ficción de la buena entonces, aunque hoy estén anticuadas muchas de ellas. El argumento es bueno (de nuevo, marca de la casa Crichton) y la conclusión es triste: máquinas y hombre están condenados a no habitar en simbiosis. La visión es bastante pesimista. El libro, que terminé un día después de "Acoso", me pareció mucho mejor.
Crichton attended Harvard Medical School, among others, and thus his medical work seeps its way into The Terminal Man and creates a new level of authenticity.The Terminal Man is about a man who is receiving an experimental medical procedure to correct a brain condition that causes violent bursts.
To nobody's surprise, he escapes holding and goes on some violent bursts.
While it was not the best one I have read by him (that prize I would give to Sphere), I am happy to have checked another box off my Michael Crichton journey.
Rather dated this is the tale of a hospital medical research team who attempt to cure an accident victim with brain damage the causes him to become violent on occasion.
The patient is a computer engineer with fears that the machines are taking over the world, but has agreed to an operation that will insert needles into his brain to monitor and stimulate certain sections to prevent these outbursts.
The probes are connected to a nuclear power pack and a minute computer that monitors and initiates the stimulation.
At first it looks as if they are successful, but then things start to go bad and then disastrous.
It also depicts how such technology could be used in combination with genetic engineering as a form of discrimination and reinforcement of class structures and social stagnation.In The Terminal Man, the very act of attempting to use science for the betterment of mankind is implicated as a fundamentally irresponsible thing.
One of my problem with this kind of work is how it reenforces general ignorance of how actual science is performed and perpetuates the fallacious idea that science is fundamentally and inherently arrogant.
Ok
3.5 stars rounded to 4.
Weak plot with ignorant and outdated views of people with epilepsy. Crichton himself came out and said he felt this was his worst novel and after reading it, I would agree with him.
I've got to say I am more than a little disappointed after finishing this book.
I tried my hardest in putting myself in the early 70s mindset of awe and apprehension towards computing and technology, but it was more the story itself which let me down.
True, the book hasn't aged particularly well due to some of the science being wrong, much of the technology being woefully out-dated, but for the time the opinions and technology were right and worked.
That said however, the story just isn't all that interesting.
Scientists attempt to link a man with behavioral disorders to a computer that will mollify his violent tendencies, but fail.
This take on the Frankenstein story (a staple of modern sci-fi) is less successful than the predecessor "Andromeda Strain," but still displays Crichton's fearlessness: there are pages and pages of references in the appendix, most of which are real articles and books, but others were invented for the purpose of the story.
A clever way of confusing the reader into thinking perhaps this really happened.The story itself is rather pedestrian, but the characters are more fleshed out than in "Andromeda" and you can see Crichton learning his craft here.
I didn't like this book.
It was stupid and I really didn't care what happened to any of the characters.
I especially was annoyed with the psychiatrist who kept telling the murdering Benson guy that he would be ok.
Not very believable when this guy just tried to kill her hours earlier.
Crichton was trying to post a moral dilemma that if we use computers to heal us that we are becoming more reliable on computers and will continue to become more computer like.
He didn't make you really believe it though.
I really didn't care.
