https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462619.Until_We_Meet_Again
I picked this book up after learning that the couple who ran a small-town beloved Oklahoma drive-in were, to my great surprise, also World War II Holocaust survivors from Poland.
Their son has recorded and told their stories in this book, together with Kathleen Janger.
Although the fact comes at the end, it puts the book in context: less than 5% of the Jewish population who lived with Meyer and Manya in their small Polish town of Hrubieszow survived the Holocaust.
The callous and capricious way in which people's lives were taken or spared is mind-boggling.
News to me was the way people were moved from one camp to another to another, sometimes after only a short while.
This is a book young people can read, but it conveys the story in all its shocking horror nonetheless, with a dramatic true-story intensity and a miraculous ending (though most of the families of both protagonists were tragically lost to them regardless).
One of many important books about the Holocaust, but most definitely worth your while.
I have always been fascinated in stories of the Holocaust so it was very interesting to read a book about an actual testimony of what the people suffered through during World War II.
The terrible tortures that Jews and many other people suffered through in the work and concentration camps is unbelievable and hard to even imagine.
This book is about how Meyer Korenblit and Manya Nagelsztajn because of their love for eachother survived the dreadful events of the holocaust and were able to find each other when the war was over, and enjoy a married life together.
I bought this book at The Holocaust Museum in Washington D.C. I love the way this is written as, it is in story form, and it is easy to forget that it is nonfiction. These type stories really help me keep in perspective what is and is not really important in life.  It is also a reminder of how evil things and people can be and to remain aware to keep them from happening again.
If you enjoy books about love and bravery in the holocaust then "until we meet again" is a book you'll want to read!
This is a story about a happy beginning with love, a suspenseful bravely middle, and a strong lasting ending.
Until we meet again is a story about 2 famillys connected by love, Manya and Meyner childhood lovers with a share of religion.
The two families are then forced to hide and risk not being caught.
suddenly, they are caught and the two families are torn apart.
the rest is about a true story about love and survival.
You should definitely read this book yourself!
Two young Jews, Manya and Meyer, are in love.
They and their families hide from the German soldiers who search out Jews in order to send them to a ghetto, to a work camp, or worse, to immediate death.
The beauty is found in the young couple's love for their families and for each other.
There is beauty too in the non-Jews who try to help by providing food and places to hide.
And even within the confines of the work/death camps, compassion sometimes shows itself.
So yes, there is a happy ending for the couple.
3.5/5This is a touching true story of two young Jews in love during the Holocaust and their struggle to survive.
I love stories in which people have to overcome adversity/struggle and do so with honor.
Any story in which one survives through hardship makes you ponder human character-what makes us who we are and why/how we’re able to react in certain ways.
This is also a love story, as the two are separated, but long to “meet again”.
I also love how this story brings to life that of the Holocaust, as it should always be remembered.
What a haunting, heart-wrenching, beautiful story, told with love and ending with hope.
I became immersed in this story and after completing it am still thinking of the people in it.
It is amazing what the human spirit can endure and still have the ability to love.I think this is my favorite book about the Holocaust because it brought everything into focus and I felt like I was there with the two main characters--living through the horrors of they endured.I also loved it that there was some good news at the end.
Oh my goodness, it's incredible how hard it is to find this book.
If you want a true story of pain, love, and perseverance, this is a book for you.
"Until We Meet Again" was the first book to make me understand the true horror that was the holocaust.
Prior to this story, I had read "The Diary of Anne Frank" and "Number the Stars," both of which focus on children.
"Until We Meet Again" follows adults and focuses on the hardships of surviving and thriving through Hitler's reign, and not knowing whether you will ever see your loved ones again.
This is a very poignant love story about two Jews who have to face their worst nightmare of separation, losing their families and getting through the Holocaust alive until they can find each other again. I would definitely recommend reading the forward by the author to make sure that you get the background of the story and how it came to be. The fact that this is a true story is just astounding...thinking that people can go through so much with just the thought of their loved ones to see them through.10 stars for me!!!
I read this for a boom response in literature. the book was intrigueing. Sad. But it is nice finding out in the beginning that they live. When she was blind, I cried. I couldn't believe a more remoresful thing could take place. after all that she had seen, death, friends taken away, families last faces, and love. She got it all taken away from her, not to be seen again. Until one day she woke up to half blurry vision. She got a second chance. And meyer found her. Love can go on even through the most torturous things.
This is one of my top 5 favorite books of all time. It's a story about the power of love and the strength of the human spirit. Much like Night, this book is a tear-jerked and shows how awful human being can treat one another to make themselves feel superior. The detail, at times, can be sickening, but the amazing part of the story is that some of the characters find the will and the ability to survive. If you ever get the chance, read this book. It will make you appreciate all that you have.
This is a well written true story about two young people in the midst of the Holocaust. This book ellaborates the amazing spirit of survival that men and women possess. It also focuses on the importance of love, family, inner strength, and forgiveness. The two main characters in this story reside in Ponca City, Ok. I have met one of them when I was a child. Their son, Michael Koernblit wrote this true love story about his parents. Michael is a motivational speaker.
If you know a girl who is thinking of picking up Twilight, direct her to this instead. This beautiful, tragic (and somewhat true) love story is inspiring and heartfelt. It gives you that seem "awww" teenage love story feeling, but with much more depth and personal strength exhibited than angst in Manya and Michael, the two main characters. I love this book for all ages, but I really encourage it as a Twilight substitute.
The WW2 era, and Holocaust survival stories are among my favorite topics--the heroism of so many in war-torn Europe humbles me, and gives me hope for the human race. This is an engaging and well written account of the family of the author in Poland, and what happened to them. One can only wonder if the courage shown by the families, and those brave enough to try to save them--some who lost their own lives in the trying--would be possible for self.
I read this book a few years ago on a trip to Washington D.C. I bought it at the Holocaust Museum and let me tell you... The rest of the trip is a blur because I could not stop reading this book. It had me crying with every single page. Such an emotional story and such a wonderful love story. DEFINITELY READ THIS BOOK.
I read this book because it was based on the true story of a couple who survived the Holocaust who are living in Ponca City, OK. One of my best friends lived next door to the couple for a while and told me I should read this. This book is captivating. I couldn't believe what they went through and how they survived. This book is a must read.
This book was difficult due to the many other Holocaust memoirs I have read lately, mostly because the people kept flitting from one place to another, always going back to the loved ones they were NOT with, which exposed them to a lot more danger.
It amazes how anyone could have survived the holocaust...a great book about love & courage.
My grandmother co-wrote this book. It's a beautiful story and one of the best-selling books at the Holocaust Museum in DC.
I read this for the first time in High School and it has been a personal favorite ever since. I've read it no less than 10 times. Classic
Loved this true story about love during the ugliness of the holocaust. Vivid discriotions of horror that took place e but amazing how love can still survive those horrors. Really good book
A well told capture of a story that. Ever ceases to amaze me. #neveragain
2
Very powerful real-life book about a teenage couple who survived the Holocaust. High school students would like this.
My son bought this book from the Holocaust Museum in DC. He wanted me to read it after he did, so that we could talk about it, which makes it one of my favorite books ever.
Another good book about the Holocaust and the reality of survival in those horrible concentration camps. It is only reasonable to rate this a 5 star when it is a true life story of a very dark time in history. It is hard to believe a person could survive such horrendous conditions and that such hate can be felt from one person to another, no matter what their faith.
Those are the two main characters that the book has shown until now.This book starts by explaining what the family of Avrum has done over the years.
That is what has been happening in the book so far.There are two things that Avrum has asked for from Meyer.
Those are the two things that Avrum asks Meyer to do.The story had changed a lot in the past chapters.
Those are some characters that have been showing up as the book proceeds.There are some reasons why Avrum's family went to hide in the hay stack.
Until We Meet Again: A True Story Of Love And Survival In The Holocaust by Michael Korenblit and Kathleen Janger is a book about true events that occurred during World War two.
Manya decides to live with him because both of their parents died during this terrible war.
If any one likes reading books about the second world war, or about Hitler, or even Uncle Tom's Cabin, then this is the book for you!
Nonetheless, this book was alright for me and I give this story a two out of five stars.
It must have been hard for Manya and Meyer to relive these memories for Michael, must have been hard for him to listen at times, I know if it were me listening to my parents describe the horrors, I would have, I honestly don't know what I would do.My dad served in the Army for 4 years, once he was stationed in Germany and on some free time, he toured one of the mountains in which the crematories were kept.
What an amazing event for Manya to get her brother back!
