https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827394.Mr_Pye
In contrast, although Peake's parents worked at a missionary hospital, he was not religious at all (though his wife was raised a Catholic, so they sent their children to Catholic schools).PlotIt's more of a situation than a plot; it rambles along, and you keep waiting for something to happen (or some rich descriptions), but mostly in vain.Middle-aged Mr Pye goes to Sark, and sets about exploring the island, then people's hearts, and then, he hopes, to bring them together in harmony.
We don't really get to know anything much about his beliefs, and no religious books or figures are mentioned, other than his Great Pal.La Coupée, phtographed from Sark, looking towards Little Sark, 2 May 2017Magical RealismThe most interesting part is the magical realism (a term not coined at the time), when (view spoiler)[he sprouts angelic wings.
As with his Titus books, there is a restlessness inherent in the fact that Peake never turns his hand, and so the reader is always left looking for purpose and direction.
It does not proceed ponderously, like the Titus books, but there is a measured pace which requires that the reader take the time to let things unfold.In theme, it roughly resembles Sinclair Lewis' 
While Gormenghast moves about these difficult questions slowly, giving a reader a clear view before drifting on grandly, Pye alights quickly and then it's on to the next.
A remarkably well constructed parable, which deserves to be better known. The moral is, roughly: don't be ashamed of being a good person, even if it makes you feel ridiculous. Peake finds a clever and original way to say it.
Would like a peek at this island through MP's wild and extravagant eyes.
St. Peter's PortOpening: 'SARK.''Yes, sir,' said the man in the little quayside hut.
La Coupée, the wasp waisted land bridge between Big and Little Sark.A penguiny cove tries to lassoo a whole island community (yes, it's a small one but still) into his disciiples during a midnight agape picnic.
(view spoiler)[He starts to grow wings so changes tack and behaves a little roguishly whereupon horns start to spring from his forehead.
well, this ending was like that, only whackier.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
You know how sometimes you start a book and think it is about one thing and then something happens and it turns into something else?
Having come up with a solution, or at least an idea about how he should start to deal with his problem, Mr Pye returns to Sark, but this time with a very different agenda.I am a recent(ish) convert to Mervyn Peake's imaginative writing and style of illustration, and in the end what I thought was going to be a religious diatribe turned into a different kind of morality story.
Filled with Mr Peake's gorgeous prose but lacking the compulsion and gravitas of the Gormenghast novels or his poetry. It's a slight tale, a fable really, filled with some terrific characters and scenery but I wasn't gripped or filled with the same sort of enthusiasms that his other writings have given me.
The last of the Peakes that I read. Descriptions of Sark remain fresh in my mind from this novel. Superb detail.
Originally published on my blog here in February 2001.Peake's most famous work, the Gormenghast trilogy, has autobiographical connections with his childhood in China.
Christianity is never mentioned, but it is fairly clear that he represents the positive side of a particular kind of evangelist.However, about halfway through things change, as Mr Pye discovers that, in some sort of joke by his Pal, he is beginning to sprout wings like an angel.
Peake's clear feeling that Sark needs the ministrations of Mr Pye is perhaps revealing of his attitude to the people of the island - though I believe he was reasonably happy there.As a novel, Mr Pye is fairly unsatisfying.
"'It is all interwoven', said Mr Pye. 'One cannot segregate things in an arbitrary way - words and illnesses, tadpoles and tears, volcanoes and dominoes, are all interwoven. What affects one thing affects all the rest.'" p.127
Just too odd. What Peake was driving at with this number, I cannot fathom. And perhaps that's it, perhaps I'm just too dumb and impatient to appreciate Mr. Pye. Not.for.me.
Basically, I don't think it's aged too well.(view spoiler)[This is a tale of two halves, representing the battle fought over Mr Pye's soul.
In the first half, he is the epitome of the virtuous Christian.
Establishing this fact is essential to the rest of the book.
Far from being whimsical and amusing, I found this first half of the book, with the calculating Mr Pye, quickly became tedious.
My sympathies were with the islanders and not with Mr Pye's evangelism, perhaps that was why, or perhaps the establishment of his 'goodness' simply takes too long.
Generally light-hearted, amusing, and some excellent characterisation (Mr Pye, Miss Dredger and Tanty in particular). Not as masterful as Peake's Gormenghast Trilogy, but there are flashes here of that greatness. A stand out moment for me was Pye's visit to the coast of Sark, when he is sitting on a dilapidated cannon, mulling over his fantastic predicament. Worth the time if one likes a good fable. Recommended.
Literally a Crusade. I can't finish reading about a midnight picnic to celebrate the love of Pal Jesus.
Playful and kind"Can't a thing just be itself without its having to mean something?"
A wonderful story.
Mr. Pye works for the eye in the sky: he is a man on a mission on the Island of Sark. However, as he wavers between good and evil, between being an angel and being a devil, he finds that the path towards perfection is fraught with pitfalls.This year marks the 50th anniversary of Peake's death.
A brilliant piece of eloquent prose by Peake. Peake’s narrative, of a tongue in cheek parable, contains numerous pieces of laugh out loud moments. However, the novel should, on the rear cover, contain a warning—“don’t mess with a small, close knit, community...no matter what your good intensions may be.” To sum up Peake’s novel...a well crafted, brilliantly written and entertaining read. But, isn’t that Peake anyway!!
Even if that's a euphemism for doing other things to the goat, it's hardly evil - and must have seemed even less so just seven years after the liberation of Auschwitz.I read this just after Hilary Mantel's Fludd - deliberately, because I felt they might complement each other.
The odd thing is (spoilers, remember) that Fludd actually is a supernatural being and we are given almost no clue to that from Ms Mantel, if you don't count her comments in the preface.
Mervyn Peake's last complete novel (I count the Gormenghast sequence as one vast and sadly unfinished novel) begins as a naturalistic satire and then takes a strange left turn into fantasy.Mr. Harold Pye, a man whose background we never learn, takes a boat to the island of Sark, without buying a return ticket.
He has set his heart on converting the three hundred or so Sarkese to the love of "the Great Pal," as he calls God, and sets out to do so in a slow and deliberate manner.The Sarkese we meet in the book are, generally, types, adding to the satirical feel of the whole: people with characteristics rather than character ...
They are almost cartoons and would fail in any setting other than Gormenghast but that Peake is using them here for a fable, for which they're fabulous.
Peake's characters are part of the dramatic landscape, and he never takes any of them entirely seriously.Peake is good at drawing a scene, at drawing it out, one might say, and making a great dramatic point out of very little action.
It is set on the Channel Island of Sark, where Peake lived.
I think one of Peake's great virtues is maintaining a sense of proportion in the bewildering landscapes and situations he sets himself to describe.
Mr Pye - Mervyn PeakeCurious sort of book, and quite good if this is your taste.
You can make comparison to his Gormenghast books too, it is in the same dimension.
Gormenghast also is in a place much like Sark both physically and also with it's feudal institutions.
Pull up a google map and some pictures while you read; this does make vacation (or life) on Sark sound fun.The illustrations in this book are a good addition (again like in Gormenghast.) Author's that illustrate and illustrators who write are a special sort.Characters: Mr. Pye, Miss Dredger, Miss George, Tintagieu, Thorpe.
I started it for the lame reason that I wanted to read a book whose action was taking place on Sark.
However the constant swaying between light/silly humour and what seemed a social discourse, character caricatures and Absurdism, Spirituality and Surrealism puzzled me deeply to say the least.
I love Absurdism and Surrealism (Aimé, Vian, Michaux, Ionesco, etc.) both when they ostentatiously show their absence of meaning and when they have a multi layered narrative.
However as much as I wanted to love Mr Pye I couldn't really get further than being intellectually curious about it and was somehow put off a little by what I felt was dehumanised and mechanical.
тот ли это нечастный случай, когда поди пойми еще, что нам хотел сказать автор?
это несколько путанный роман решительно непросвещенного в восточных путях западного человека?
или утонченное издевательство над всей иудео-христианскорй духовной традицией?
о чем он, в самом деле?
о вреде крайностей и пользе пресловутой умеренности и аккуратности?
о пагубности стпремления жить на службе у Идеи, какой бы та ни была?
или о пользе конформности и страхе перед нетерпимостью общества и давлением ровни?
или это книжка о том, до чего пуста жизнь без чуда?
I think this is probably the worst book I've ever read, or, at least, the worst book I've read that I remember reading (which is, of course, an entirely different proposition).I came to this book as a fan of the Gormenghast sequence (and was devastated to discover that it was intended to be longer and unfulfilled (and further devastated upon the discovery that Mr Peake had gone/ been taken before his time)), however, even this couldn't save me.
This reads as a simple morality tale, told in a ham-fisted, repetitive and bland style.
I want to write more about this book soon, but suffice it right now to say that it is a true delight.
Peake has a gift for turning caricature into character through how much he really cares about the eccentrics he creates.
It would have been so easy to mock Pye and his desire to evangelize for the Great Pal non-stop, but he sees Pye through a number of dark, funny, grim conversions that make you wince, shift in your chair, and care all at once.
He does caricature-character evolution masterfully in Gormenghast, but this is another instance of it, and it has a MUCH better ending.
I read this after having gained a fascination for the island of Sark through a university project I had been working on.
I probably would not have picked it up had it not been for that, which would have been a great pity.
However, having done so, I was really pleased I had as it was a delicious little book.
How do you balance a personality?
- are you too good or too evil?
- do you want wings or horns?
A year or so after I read it, a television programme was made on it with Derek Jacobi in the lead.
Wow!!! This book is....weird. Well, what can you expect from Mervyn Peake????????? I honestly had no idea of what was going to happen until the last 20 pages. Really Good. A great book for those who are ready for an adventure. Who thought that she was going to be the hero???????(Im not going to say who because I dont want to ruin it. Its just another genius piece of work from Mervyn Peake!!! YAAAAAAY!!!!!
Interesting piece but not gripping like Gormenghast was. I think the main premise was intriguing: what if our good and bad deeds caused immediate physical manifestations upon us? The humor was fun, ironic, and quirky...but it still didn't make me laugh out loud. Maybe that just reflects on life events here and now rather than on the book. I was a little disappointed.
The literal symptoms of moral dilemmas, Peake carves his way around the island of Sark and jaunts Mr Pye through his maze of brambled descriptive writing. Mervyn at his subtle comic best, a pleasant read and Mr Pye himself could have been a character easily plucked from a Brecht or Dickens novel, so well tailored is he.
I may be being slightly harsh on this book only giving it 3 stars, but for me this book doesn't quite do enough to earn an extra star. The characters are well developed, the setting, clearly a place of interest to the author, ideal. Where the book falls down for me is on the plot. A little strange and, towards the end, slightly rushed, story it costs an otherwise interesting read.
