https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4495288-the-driver
I know William Godwin was probably the first with Caleb Williams and he came much before, but I'm not sure how prevalent it had become by Garrett's time.- The atypical romantic relationship in The Driver, between Galt/Lord Porteous and Vera in Atlas Shrugged between John Galt/Francisco d'Anconia/Hank Rearden and Dagny Taggart.
Atlas Shrugged was a little more complicated and weird, but in both the female has a very unorthodox view of romance.-The central line "Who is John Galt" in Atlas and "Who is Harry Galt" in The Driver.I'd say that's enough to at least indicate a very strong possibility that Rand had read and was influenced by Garrett.
a great read underpinned by great principlesMy son, knowing of my fondness for The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged, gave me this book for Christmas.
As he said, "it could go either way." As a novel, it is a quick and easy read, yet it is easy to see how it may have served as inspiration for both the characters and plot lines of both Rand books.
I at one point early in the book, not realizing it was written in 1922, assumed the events were set in the Great Depression, as the similarities to that era and to our recent "Great Recession" were so glaring.
Read the Mises.Org reprint, which is said to have less reproduction problems than this reprint. Excellent book of the American Dream. A personal read puts to rest the incorrect idea that Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged was based on The Driver. Worth seeking out and reading.

People like William Buckley and Whittaker Chambers following the giants of the Old Right – classical liberals like John Roderigo Dos Passos, H.L Menken, Rose Wilder Lane, Albert Jay Nock and of course Garet Garrett, economist and journalist.Today – of course – novels are reserved for the likes of Tom Clancy and Dan Brown – cotton candy of the mind, serving better the big screen where ideas come in last place after violence and sex.
The focus on the motive power of man; and the classical liberal ideas of responsibility, hard work, individuality and private property.
A slower read than most, as this is based on history, in the person of Henry M Galt, known to the real world as E.H (Edward Henry) HARRIMAN.
Galt is a focused individual with one purpose - to take over, control and rebuild the nation's railroads into th mightiest conglomeration of railways in the world - with him at the helm.
The book is based on Harriman, but doesn't mirror his life.
It is written with a human factor, making the people and events around the crash of 1893 believable and understandable.
Other than that excellent book, and worth reading for anyone trying to understand history.
Like many novels written in 1920s America, it is an extremely well-written book with a bit of a romantic/fantastic plot.
Covering the rise to fortune of a (fictional) Wall Street speculator who dreams of running a railroad during the 1890s, "The Driver" reads like a period piece, except that it was written more or less during the period covered in the book.The romance in the story is told with great wit, and the historical facts contained in the novel are treated with wisdom and education.
Anyone with an interest in the Turn-of-the-Century will enjoy this novel, and of course those of us with an inclination toward economics will enjoy the historical aspects of the novel.I highly recommend this book to anyone.
It starts off with the narrator following Coxey's Army which was basically the "Occupy Wallstreet" of 1894.
The narrator ends up working as a secretary for a railroad.
Galt, ends up taking over the railroad when the stock is down, and turns the company around.
Galt refers to the narrator as "Coxey" in tongue-in-cheek manner throughout the rest of the book.
The book was basically written as a biography of the fictional character Galt from the moment he was introduced.The book is interesting because of the insights into how the railroad operated, how the stock market worked, and how people related to the stock market.
There was a period in my life when I was both a male factor and a malefactor. Now I've got a straight story to tell. And I don't need any help.Read the reviews. Believe the hype.The synopsis reads as such: The destruction of the world through the eyes of an innocent child under guise of transcendent underachiever. Else; gleeful prolonging Re: ancient yearnings Re: forgotten time.Oftentimes being quite sardonic offers its own rewards. What man cannot control he may sometimes conduct. Ask Beethoven if you don't believe me.
I think that Ayan Rand borrowed from Garrett in Atlas Shrugged, both have major characters named John Galt, both involve railroads, and both are an apologetic for the free market over the parasite class of government. What is great about this is how it explicitly shows that government regulation is fascistic as it is usually the competitors usning the club of the state to cripple the most cutting edge company. Good book.
What an inspirational book! Loved it. I loved it especially as one loves an underdog.Commerce is one of the least understood, wrongly condemned, and under appreciated forces in society.Interesting fact: Ayn "Intellectual Property" Rand totally ripped off some ideas (even sentences) from this book.Here is my video review.
The book that Ayn Rand actually stole some of her ideas for Atlas Shrugged from. I enjoyed reading this piece...it's not a great work of fiction, but it is better than Atlas Shrugged simply because it tries to tackle the economic issues without worrying about having to justify atheism and licentious behavior. It's also got an enjoyable storyline in and of its own merit.
History repeats itself. This is a novel, but the events (circa the last turn of the century) are eerily similar to what is going on today.
simple, but gripping read. educatonal in the way of business while still being easy to read.
This was truly an Ayn Rand with a Human Face book. Wonderful.
