https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123515.Elizabeth_I
of Anne Somerset's Elizabeth I and feel I now know more about her than I ever did before, for all the biographies I've read.
And, how near the end of her life, when she was bankrupted by acting as she had to do in foreign affairs and the people groaned against her, how it hurt her.
Reading the book was an awe-inspiring experience.
If you're a history buff or have an interest in Elizabeth I and are up for a challenge, this is your book!
This was one beast of a book and I recommend this highly, but only to those that are interested in Elizabeth I and her court affairs, because it encompasses everyone around her.
I really admired Somerset for this, and how much knowledge and understanding of the Queen is in this book is incomprehensible.
Somerset does a wonderful job of giving almost every detail and of trying to stay neutral in all situations laid out.I found with this that I am not the biggest fan of this queen like everyone else is.
Pure history, and hard work for me ...but beautifully written and readable.
Fictional treatments choose their facts and tend to treat ER I as shadowy and mysterious (a circumstance she certainly encouraged) so this book was filled with facts and relationships hinted at elsewhere but clearly laid out here.
For me, the fascination was in the complexity of running a government with far flung representatives at a time when communications were at the speed of a fast horse or a wind-blown vessel.
Especially interesting, too, was how completely marginal some of the events in my recent reading -- for example, the Grace O'Malley saga (completely unmentioned) -- were to the mainstream of Elizabethan history.
Yes, I wanted to know that the Queen was stylish, but not to the point of redundancy, especially when her domestic and foreign policy was so intricately complex and of course interesting.
But what really made her (and this book) stand out was not the wars she fought against stronger powers, nor how she made a weak country strong.
But how she did all of the above not only being a women, but a women who did not need nor want one man and refused to let any man eclipse her.
Oh, she did have a weakness for certain men, but she still managed to never wed while enjoying the fruits of her Queendom.
This biography is full of details and facts!
It's amazing how Ms. Somerset was able to compile such a complete picture of Elizabeth's life!
Before reading this book, I had no clue who Queen Elizabeth I was; but now, I feel like she is a like a familiar celebrity in our modern world!
Also, this book helped me break that old English stereotype of proper English ladies and gentlemen sipping tea.and eating little cakes.
These people in the 1500's were human too, and there are similar scenarios are portrayed in Elizabethan England that occur today!
Elizabeth's life was very interesting.
Somerset outdoes herself in this highly detailed work. Though it can at times be information overload, it still reads as a detailed account of a remarkable forty four year history of a realm on its way out of the backwaters to nationhood amongst the superpowers of the day. I especially enjoyed the details of issues and things beyond the court such as the wars in the Netherlands, and Ireland which are so often glossed over in other books on her reign.
While I trudged through this book, it wasn't because it was poorly written or boring. It was just information overload. Somerset did a great job of recreating moments in Elizabeth's life and her prose was easy to read and follow. This biography is going to be VERY helpful for me...gotta love Elizabeth!!!
Nothing short of brilliant. So full of detailed information and not just a biography but social history too.
It took a long time for me to tackle this beast of a book, although it was infinitely rewarding to do so.
As with so many books about this time period, it can be tedious for a modern-day reader to wade through the Elizabethan language.
Still, sticking with it paid off in a very rewarding study of a fascinating monarch's life.
The closing chapter, in which she succinctly paints a picture of Elizabeth I's successes as a monarch, is excellent.I would hesitate to recommend this book to someone with only a passing interest in Elizabeth's life, since it does require work and commitment.
Anne Somerset’s Elizabeth I has taken me a long while to complete, but that was due to busyness on my part, not sluggish writing on Somerset’s part.
Elizabeth I is simply wonderful and enlightening.
I have an enormous respect for Elizabeth I for the way she took on the responsibilities and challenges of her role in a time when the heavy burden of massive political power was doubled by the fact that she was a woman.
Somerset illuminates clearly how Elizabeth I was able to do this.
I love that Somerset kept her eye on the ball and stuck to to big picture.
Somerset kept in on track.
If you're like me, you will come away from this lyrical, comprehensive biography believing that Elizabeth I is one of the great virtuosos in history when it comes to foreign policy. While the continent was engaged in ritual massacre, invasion, and insurrection, Elizabeth took a shaky kingdom and set it on the road to empire.But we knew that, I think. The real strength of this biography are the vignettes and anecdotes of Elizabeth's courtiers, whom she played against each other even better than she did inbred European monarchs. Well done.
I read a lot of history, and a lot of that is specifically British history, with a heavy course of English monarchs. I was looking forward to this book about one of the most fascinating monarchs of England, and to my surprise, I found that I could not get into the book. This one is "Did not finish", one of about six such books in my lifetime. I'll be darned if I know why, but there it is.
Simply excellent, lucid observations of history and historical research presented in a thorough and well analyzed manner. I had a look at the BBC’s very good four part series on Queen Elizabeth I and, while I enjoyed the series, the book, I felt, provided a wider range of sentiment about the era and therefore was more objective in comparison.
Very readable. Her conclusions made sense. Full of references to original letters. When she did include quotes, I usually could not understand them since the writing was so complex and roundabout. I did not realize the difficulties she experienced by not marrying. She would pretend to seek engagements with foreign nobles with no intention of accepting them.
This must certainly be one of the definitive biographies of Elizabeth I. Absorbing. An immersive experience. Quite good.
Sorry, I just can't get into Somerset's writing style.
The start was a little rocky for me, but the perspective it offered on her motivations (especially surrounding her lovers) was hugely refreshing and made for a really engaging read!
Review - The best biography I have ever read of Elizabeth I. It deals with every event of her reign in glorious detail, and tries to understand what impact her childhood and upbringing had on her as a person and a queen. It examines the people around her like Lord Burghley, Robert Dudley, and her father, sister and brother, trying to understand what made her the person she was. It's not just a biography but an examination of everything that made the Elizabethan age.General Subject/s? - History / Biography / TudorsRecommend? – YesRating -20/20
The author did a great job keeping the flow of characters intelligible.
Most histories get bogged down with an ever shifting palette of names, nicknames and titles, but in this work, I found it quite easy to follow the various people.
Fascinating stuff, though I did remember a good bit from history classes and various movies.
The writing style is clear and understandable, but it seems clear that the author has been influenced by Elizabeth I's own rather convoluted sentence structures and turns of phrase.
Some people might want to keep a dictionary handy, I mostly just plowed on through, assuming that I got the gist given the context.
Although not a light read by any means, Somerset's writing style is very engaging.Elizabeth I was without doubt a woman of immense political and religious power, a highly intelligent leader, strong willed, and seductive.
The author brings the complexity and difficulty of ruling an empire for 45 years during politically unstable times to life by describing many treasonous conspiracies, intrigues at court, and international conflicts.Anyone who enjoys learning more about this period of time, the glittering personality of Elizabeth I as well as the major political events of the era will enjoy this book.
The book is a fantastic biography that captures an amazing amount of nuance to her character.
I was drawn to the subject after watching HBO's superb miniseries on Elizabeth.
However, after reading this work, I was left with the conclusions that HBO's sins were only those of ommission.
They give short shrift to a number of Elizabeth's pets.
But, even Sommerset's work pays more attention to Leister and Essex.
Even when Elizabeth's motivates and moods seem less than noble, you cannot help admiring the cunning of this woman.
It is an amazing political symphony conducted with such a deft hand, its hard to imagine anyone else pulling it off.
For the serious Elizabeth I fan, this detailed account of her reign delivers the facts of a history text along with the feeling of an autobiography.
Never boring, any of the few suppositions given by the author are well supported, leaving the reader with a confidence in the author to deliver a rounded account of Elizabeth's journey as a monarch.
There is almost infinite factual detail within - leaving little room for rumor, gossip and other drama associated with some works about the subject.
For a serious Elizabeth researcher, however, there leaves plenty of little undiscovered tidbits to amuse and satisfy even an avid Queen Elizabeth I fan.

When she was two years old her father killed her mother because her mother had not had a son.
Her father would then continue to kill her stepmothers every few years because no son had been born yet.
Elizabeth still loved her father, and once a boy came along he died at sixteen, only being in control for a year.
Mary got control and ruled, and Elizabeth was becoming very smart and did better than any of her other siblings.
She made her successor Mary queen of Scots son when she was sixty, and died shortly after.
Somerset's biography is very well-detailed, and I liked that she mostly waited until the end to insert her own opinions of Elizabeth's reign.
I read it in order to get some background before reading the Faerie Queene, and I think Somerset provided as many points of view as fairly as possible in addition to her details, so I feel prepared.
I highly recommend this encompassing biography to anyone interested in Elizabeth, and I would say that it is equally suitable to scholars as well.
Sadly, a lot of this very long book was wasted effort.
Parts of it read like "And then Elizabeth had lunch with the Duke of ______...
and then she went to Richmond...
and then she might have slept with Leicester...
It's shocking how hard it is to find a good Elizabeth bio.
These were important guys back then, like rock stars!
It's like the author couldn't fall back on careful and detailed analysis or evocative writing, so she fell back on typing.
Maybe this just wasn't the book I was looking for.
She's an excellent writer and historian.What's fascinating about the book: the struggle to get Elizabeth to marry and her parrying away the prospective grooms her counselors put forth; the relationship and power struggle between Elizabeth and her cousin, Mary Queen of Scots; the fact that Somerset, a far better biographer than Antonia Fraser, doesn't hesitate to criticize her subject for actions she finds dubious or duplicitous. This is something Fraser should have applied to her biography of Mary, whose stupidity, lack of judgment, total abscence of political savvy, and deplorable, self-destructive taste in men, cried out for analysis and criticism.
A really good book for everyone, who is interested in Elizabeth I and her reign.Main pros: 1) the author's neutrality, presenting narrative, allows to make your own conclusions;2) Elizabeth is placed in the context of her time and space - one must remember that her actions and decisions were influenced by various events abroad and at home, morals of 16th century's society, politics of the day, opinions of people around her and her own uneasy experiences. Somerset explains it all very well.
Very well written. Very informative. Elizabeth ruled for almost 45 years. She is the daughter of Henry VIII and Ann Boleyn. She was born in 1533. Ann Boleyn was executed in 1536. She was 13 when her father died. Her older sister, Mary, by Henry's first wife became queen. Elizabeth lived away from court. Mary disliked Elizabeth very much.Elizabeth became queen. She executed her cousin, Mary Queen of Scots. But Mary's son James succeeded Elizabeth as King of England, even though he was a Scot.
This was a definite struggle to get through.
It was rather boring during the religious parts (but I know this was a huge part in Elizabeth's reign).
I found it rather exciting when they talked about court life, marriage, and expenses accrued when on progress.
If you are really into history on Elizabeth then go on and read it, but if not there are better books about her out there to read.
There were a ton of parts that I had to reread because it was so boring and finally I just skimmed over those parts.
Good luck if you do read this!
