https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274065.A_Fish_Dinner_in_Memison
We actually have two parallel stories – in our own world, we follow the meeting, courtship and marriage of Lessingham and Lady Mary Scarnside; in Zimiamvia, we’re back with King Mezentius, his son Barganax, Barganax’ mother Amalie, the redoubtable Vicar and various others who’ll cause and/or become embroiled in the events of Mistress of Mistresses.Having said that, this is not a book of action; it’s primarily a book in which the various characters, in various combinations and permutations, have lengthy discussions about the nature and purpose of existence and of Love (yes, capital L), especially at the eponymous fish dinner.
The trilogy as a whole has an extremely unusual and rather disconcerting structure, in that it is more or less in reverse chronological order, with much overlap between the events in the second and third novel (the central event which provides the title here also occurs in The Mezentian Gate).The fact that the opening chapter contains phrases in French, Italian, Greek and Latin might put a fair number of readers off, but more difficult in actuality is not so much Eddison's theme (time and eternity) as what he wants to say about it.
I'm only so far as the prefatory letter Eddison wrote in explanation of the philosophy which underlies his Zimiamvian trilogy, but having read Mistress of Mistresses: A Vision of Zimiamvia a few times, I see (possibly indistinctly) where he's coming from, although I'm not sure if I agree.He says that the universe is built upon a dualistic male-female axis, the male pole (no pun intended) being Truth, which creates, sustains and is sustained and enchanted (he actually says 'enslaved') by the feminine pole of Beauty.
Dense reading, but if you enjoy Eddison's style, keep at it.
Lessingham, his alter ego, comes off here as the worst sort of Mary Sue: great painter, great diplomat, mountaineer, most interesting man in the world.
He also spouts off at one point like the worst sort of Tory toff (I know that he claims at one point to be a Whig, but this is presumably in the 18th century sense).
Still, if you're interested in the history of fantasy literature in the 20th century, Eddison is significant, and if you can appreciate his cultural references and manage his language, his work is worthwhile.
While Eddison's earlier works demonstrate his skill with language and story telling, they lack the depth that makes this story so compelling.
In this book, the author turns his attention to bigger themes - time, deity and personality among others - and presents a fantasy that sheds light on reality.
I disagree with a number of his views but Eddison has clearly thought deeply and presents a compelling tale that never descends into allegory and retains the integrity of the tale.
But Fish Dinner in Memison is Eddison's magnum opus and deserves to rank among the best books to have graced the fantasy genre.
Though this book has the rich and beautiful prose that I have come to expect from Eddison, it is easily my least favorite of his Zimiamvian trilogy.
Eddison often spends large amounts of space describing a scene or having his characters go into long metaphysical dialogues.
But this book spends way too much time with these things, particularly with the latter.
But the former books in this trilogy also had battles and political intrigue.
But there is very little of that sort of excitement in *Fish Dinner*.Nevertheless, I recommend this book to the Eddison completist.
His rich prose are truly a thing to slowly read and savor.

Incredibly stylish, detailed and complex, I'll need to reread to fully understand the relationships between the two parallel worlds, but I'm looking forward to it. Great!
(review of the full series in Zimiamvia: A Trilogy)
i really loved "The Worm Ouroboros", so I'm hoping this will be slightly close to similary groovy! not nearly as good, hmmm, i think maybe the introduction was the best part
