https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59807.Carnal_Innocence
این کتاب اولین اثر ترجمه شده از نورا رابرتز در ایران است ٠ نکته جالب در مورد نویسنده آن است که در هر هفته ، حداقل سه کتاب از وی در صدر فهرست پرفروش ترین رمان های مجله نیویورک تایمز قرار دارد و کتاب شهر بی گناه پرفروش ترین اثر اوست که در سال ۲۰۰۱ به مدت ۸ ماه در صدر پرفروش ترین ها بوده است.
In the first few chapters, his family is described in all its infamy - they are the richest people in town but there’s an alcoholic older brother, lazy but charming Tucker and a twice divorced younger sister who loves the gentlemen a little too much.At the beginning, one of Tucker’s affairs comes to life and I was a bit outraged that he would date women from a different social strata.
Solid 4 Stars I really enjoyed this book and the narrator was fantastic. My only complaint was there are sooooo many characters involved at times it was confusing and I would have to stop and remember who's who. I really didn't figure out who the killer was till about 3/4 or more into the book...I kept changing my mind. Very good storyline and characters with plenty of aghast and heart beating scenes.  Tucker and Carolyn  The hero Tucker Longstreet is not my average kind of hero he's very "Non
I really enjoyed this book and the narrator was fantastic.
My only complaint was there are sooooo many characters involved at times it was confusing and I would have to stop and remember who's who.
I really didn't figure out who the killer was till about 3/4 or more into the book...I kept changing my mind.
Tucker and Carolyn
She's very lonely and alone although she does have family, as an only child and a child prodigy to an overbearing mother she is suffering in more ways than one and decides to take some time off and heads to Innocence, MS.
ETA: 4/7/12 The unagridged version narrated by Tom Stechschulte is now available on audible.com!
Listened to this on audio narrated by the masterful Tom Stechschulte.
While listening to a book on audio the reader is forced to listen to all the description and not skim.
I'm guilty of skimming at times, especially when the action gets going and I'm on the edge of my seat.
While listening to Stechschulte's excellent narration of Carnal Innocence, I was struck by the rich details Roberts includes in her book.
Roberts has written books I don't care for, but when she's on, she's amazing.
Just basically a depressing read with a predictable plot and a "let's-wrap-it-up-quick" ending.A downer with a morbid tone:  I did like the lead characters, Tucker and Caroline, but the book is not uplifting or amusing.
(hide spoiler)] For a book written in 1991, a huge percentage of the characters were happy to entertain lung cancer.
So what does that portend for Cy?As I said, I did like Tucker and Caroline, but I didn't fully buy into Tucker falling so hard and fast for her.
Loved that name — a play on words with Ulysses.A far better book is this author's more recent publication, The Witness, narrated superbly by Julia Whelan.
What I love about Nora Roberts’ books is she makes sure that the reader is easily drawn to her characters.
Just ignore them and enjoy a fantastic, vintage Nora Roberts book.Caroline is in Innocence, MS taking a much needed break from her life.
She also finds herself drawn to the town bad boy, Tucker Longstreet.Tucker is infamous for his good ole' playboy ways, but there was something about him that makes him a cut above the rest.
When Edda Lou turns up dead, her father takes a dive off the deep end and goes after Tucker.There are several plots and subplots swirling around the small southern town of Innocence where gossip is the primary form of communication and it is hot and sticky.
This was a three and a half star southern mystery that was punched up to a four star by Tom Stechshulte's narration. Nora did a wonderful job making the foliage and surroundings so real that I felt like I was there along with the characters. The murder mystery was a pretty good Southern drama with original characters mixed with some romance and a bit of comic relief.
Tucker Longstreet is the hero and one who loves a good nap and when the mood strikes willing woman with no relationship complications.
Tucker then has a huge issue when the woman who claims she is pregnant by him turns up dead and Caroline is the one who discovers the body at the spot they first met and on her property.
I wasn't a big fan of Caroline and I had issues with Tucker at times too.
It to me fit the time, the small mindset of some people, and the small town mentality that can happen too.
Well done romantic mystery suspense.
Various conflicts are well done.An example of fun dialogue: Tucker is this slow talking rich southern man who sleeps with a lot of women.
I loved Tucker’s relationship with a teenage boy -- heartwarming.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:I recently heard Judith Ivey doing a southern accent that was irritating.
Tom Stechschulte (this audiobook narrator) did a wonderful southern accent.
He’s now one of my favorite narrators.OTHER BOOKS:Nora Roberts is hit and miss with me.
Swearing language: strong including religious swear words, but not often used.
Sexual language: moderate.
Genre: romantic mystery suspense.
A great old book that's not dated at all! Loved the mystery and all the details that went on, it was a really long book . I had guessed the killer correctly so I'm proud of myself! lol
Tucker and Caroline, according to Lifetime Television: Me likey!
Unabridged audiobook version from Speaking of Audiobooks dated 9/30/10:Narrated by Tom StechschulteAttempting to listen to a bad copy of Carnal Innocence, I just knew there was so much to enjoy that I was missing because of all that extra noise.
Tom Stechschulte’s narration is superb and I believe it’s his interpretation of Tucker that made him so, well, to die for!
Hopefully your local library’s copy is better than mine although, I must add, that Carnal Innocence was on hold when I returned it to the library.
But the narration by Stechschulte and the hero Tucker made this one 5 stars regardless of the violence.
Gostei bastante deste livro, apesar de não me ter cativado tanto como outros que já li da Nora.
Tem bastante suspense e mistério e um pouco menos de romance do que é habitual, mas o pouco que tem é muito giro e divertido, dei umas boas gargalhadas com as personagens deste livro, principalmente com o Tucker (uma personagem masculina um pouco diferente das que a Nora costuma criar, mas não menos cativante) e com a prima Lulu.
When our Audiobook group was discussing the great narration of the audible version I thought I would check it out.
I really did enjoy this new to me narrator, and he brought the rating up a bit.I liked the way Nora Roberts lays the ground work for her stories.
With her descriptions of the town, the people, the main characters and the tidbits of history, I had a crystal clear impression of the world this story took place in.
Overall, I enjoyed the mystery and the characters.
The romance was a bit weak but all the other things going on in the story made up for it.
4.5 stars. The South really came alive in this book, a lot of it due to the brilliant narration by Tom Stechschulte. Those Southern accents were just so good, coupled with a great story and this is a fabulous romantic suspense, even 20 years later.
The kind of town where everybody knows your business as well as the business of your family 200 years back and it’s all still current.A world-famous violinist has escaped to Innocence to find herself and her roots.
We get to know a number of people in Innocence all of whom have their impact on the murders and through them we find a small town of support and tolerance.
The results would be exactly the same.” And eventually, he persuades Caroline into adopting the concept as she learns more about the depths of Tucker Longstreet as opposed to the surface he allows most people to believe.This is a sweet and easy romance with homey characters which leaves you wanting small town life.
Caroline Waverly has fled to Innocence Missisippi to escape the burdens of her high stress career as a famous violinist and the pressure her mother imposes on her.
she discovers the joy of smalltown living; warm friends, friendly neighbors, and even romance.
But there is more going on in Innocence than meets the eye.
The mystery behind the murders kept me guessing until the very end.
The romance that grew between Tucker and Caroline absolutely made me swoon.
And it brought tears to my eye to see how much confidence blossomed within Caroline throughout the course of her stay in Innocence.
But the pace reminded me so much of the movie, sipping ice teas, gossiping, cotton plantation and the hierarchy of the town of Innocence, maybe even a little bit of Peyton Place.Caroline comes to take a break from concert performances (she's a violinist).
She meets Tucker Longstreet, I can so picture Paul Newman in his prime playing this role.
Tucker I enjoyed getting to know him, a true onion of a character.Written in the 60's this would have been made into a movie, today...
folks just can't appreciate slow southern charm unless it's written by Nicholas Sparks.
The setting of the sweltering, southern small-town is fantastic.
It is inhabited with flamboyant characters who get under your skin quickly.
They breath life in to their town with gossip, passion, love, death and everything in between.
Add a rivting suspense with twists and turns that surprised the hell outta me and I was enthralled by this story from beginning to end.
Once again I'm enamored by the characters, both main and supporting, and the setting that was full of southern charm.
But the suspense plot added a thrill that shows Nora Roberts has a nack for incorporating various storythreads into a flowing, exciting read!
2.5 starsThis was just too dated and redneck for me to really get into. I didn't like the lazy-assed, but generous (of course), hero with no ambition other than to sit in his hammock all day. I didn't like the racist/KKK elements or the driving drunk that everyone seemed to do without a second thought.The best part about this book was the narrator.
4.5 -- review to come
This was a fantastic read. Caroline comes back to Innocence, MS to her grandparents home to destress. She is a classical violinist who is burned out. She meets Tucker Longstreet, who seems to be a lazy, well off guy who doesn't do much except womanize. Ms Roberts takes us on a wild ride as gruesome murders of women in this town are happening. The twists and turns in this book are unbelievably good. This was a big 5 star read for me. Highly recommend.
I enjoyed Tom's performance here so much that I just might start listening to the rest of the Ghostwalkers even though I'm not a super-soldier-paranormal fan.The Story: I did not realize I'd read this book (would have been in the early 90s when NR was an auto-buy) until I reached the part where Billy T and friends were about to lynch Toby March, and then I remembered who the murderer was.
This was not a favorite of mine.
I'm going to attribute it to the fact that it was originally written almost 20 years ago.
The language was unacceptable to me (a lot of racist remarks and situations), the lack of technology bothered me, and overall the whole thing just felt dated.Also, the plot was just bizarre and there seemed to be a constant "crazy" person trying to kill someone, it just felt that there were multiple storylines that were vying for the main plot.
I think I'll stick to new releases from Roberts from now on.
It took quite some time for the story to develop and I had a hard time sticking with it.
Somewhere around halfway, it got really interesting, the characters came alive and the mystery got suspenseful.
The relationship between Caroline and Tucker developed slowly and unfolded very nicely.
Both of them had commitment issues that needed resolution before they could have a decent chance at a romance and it was handled perfectly....it's the highlight of the book.
The whodunit factor is pretty high and there's a nice surprise ending.
I'm rating this only a 3.5 because it just took too long for this story to develop.
Overall - this was a good one! A murder-mystery set in the south... Good murder mystery, but could have been a bit better - a bit more suspenseful!The romance was a bit insta-loveish! Their first lovemaking scene was quite weird and non-sexy... But it got a bit better afterwards... Again, just like in my previous read "Chasing Fire" , the killer (view spoiler)[ is just plain crazy! She killed because she was crazy! There is no other hidden motive.... Which is a bit disappointing - I actually wanted a valid reason!  (hide spoiler)]
Great book. I was somewhat surprised when the killer was revealed. It made sense though. Since I live in the heart of the deep south, I got a chuckle out of some of the scenes in the book. We may talk a little slower but we aren't all dimwitted. I think she proved that with atleast the main characters in the book. Not so much with the other characters. All in all, a good book.
Great narration. Fun listen. Classic old school romance novel. Lite on bedroom scenes, but great chemistry and satisfying HEA with the main couple.Nice one far a long drive on a sunny day. :) .Definitely recommended!
Four stars for the superb narration by Tom Stechshultz, who brings Tucker Longstreet to life. Still not a Nora Roberts fan, but I simply fell in love with the hero, Tucker Longstreet, a charming Southern lothario with hidden depths and lots of heart!
Niet écht mijn favoriete boek van Nora Roberts, het verhaal was net niet boeiend genoeg om mij aan het lezen te zetten en te blijven lezen. Ook al zijn de personages op zich goed uitgewerkt, toch ontbrak het mij aan spanning in dit boek.
