https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40317.Lean_Mean_Thirteen
You know that the following will happen at some point in the story: you will laugh out loud at least three times (often more), Stephanie will have hot sex with Joe Morelli, Stephanie will think about the possibility of hot sex with Ranger, Stephanie and Lulu will find themselves in some embarrassing situations while trying to apprehend a bail skip (this 13th installment involves exploding taxidermy and a gravedigger who does taxes on the side), Grandma Mazur will either pack serious heat or get her hair dyed a color not found in nature, Stephanie will destroy a car (maybe two), Stephanie will feel torn between the two men in her life, the phrase "Ranger will kill me if something happens to you" will be uttered by at least one character (and maybe more), and no matter how crazy and dangerous things become, it will all turn out right in the end.
Book Review  3+ out of 5 stars for Lean Mean Thirteen, the 13th book in the "Stephanie Plum" mystery series, written in 2007 by Janet Evanovich. What can you say about a girl who is half in love and half in lust with two different men, only to have one of her ex-husbands show up, then be killed. And she's the chief suspect! But she's a bounty hunter on the good side of the law. How is that possible? Well, it seems anything is in NJ! Another good book in the series, full of the hilarious antics
Book Review
3+ out of 5 stars for Lean Mean Thirteen, the 13th book in the "Stephanie Plum" mystery series, written in 2007 by Janet Evanovich.
What can you say about a girl who is half in love and half in lust with two different men, only to have one of her ex-husbands show up, then be killed.
Another good book in the series, full of the hilarious antics, mistakes and luck Stephanie Plum faces in her job tracking criminals down.
While not quite that bad, this girl is always hot for someone.
Just like the series of books...
XDI have no idea how Janet Evanovich does it but I still love this series and I still can’t decide if I’d like to tousle Morelli’s nice hair or if I’d rather tousle Ranger’s bed sheets doing the nasty with him.
;-) (Can’t help but wonder if Stephanie is going to decide for one of them in the next 11 books though…) Anyway!
My biggest love is still Grandma Mazur!
<3And to all of you who wonder what “Lean Mean Thirteen” is about.
Not that anyone wouldn’t want him sniffing after them.
But he’s not normal.”Happy Reading!
That's why we have friends who read our books and help us see the things we don't.
Here's the thing: I know you think you're writing a protracted love triangle, but in fact, you are writing a threesome.
Also, in your case, you had two choices: either you could take the route that ends up with Morelli and Ranger killing each other (hint: not really appropriate for your neck of the genre) or you could take the route that ends up with Morelli and Ranger kind of buddies.
I don't ask for a great plot from a Stephanie Plum adventure or I never would have got past the 5th book in the series.
I read these books because Stephanie is funny and eats the way most people over 14 can only dream of eating.
Stephanie isn't funny anymore, she's obnoxious.
Lula and GRandma, usually the two people you can count on for at least one or two good laugh, make appearances are so superfluous that even if they WERE funny, you wouldn't be able to laugh for cringing at how sad it all has become.Sigh.
It turns out that the guy Stephanie is trying to catch for missing his court date can't leave his house because the cable company is supposed to appear sometime between now and the Apocalypse and he needs to be at home.
He lost his job, but he got his cable fixed.""I hate those fuckers," Lula said.
With Morelli being a cop, he tells Stephanie to enlist Ranger for help.
I'm still on Team Ranger, but I am hoping Morelli dumps her on her ass first.
I googled "Stephanie Plum Ranger" and this is what I got...
With a cast of crazy laugh out loud lovable characters and danger and mayhem lurking around every corner, this series is my go to series when I need out of a book funk or just plain and simply need a good hearty laugh.
And the best part is, she has a crazy cast of friends to help her through it all not to mention two hunky guys vying for her attention.
Laughs, danger, great friends and co workers, and a mystery that is always fun, this is a series that anyone that loves to laugh and still get some depth, will enjoy.
My friend Alisa bought the first book in this series for me about 2 years ago.
They're good - I think you'd like her writing style." Um, right.
I'm thinking no way will I like some chick lit novel.
Sold!Next thing I know, I've read the book on the plane, loved it and gone home and ordered all the next ones in the series.
Now, I have to wait a year for each new one and I love Alisa for introducing me to the world of Stephanie Plum (main character in the books) but hate her for my new addiction.
Waiting a year is TORTURE!If you're looking for a fun, quick, fluffy read this is a good series.
After reading it, one can see why the mob runs New Jersey!Incompetent bounty hunter, Stephanie Plum gets to go after her louse of an ex-husband.
Top cop Joe Morelli helps her out a little, even though like all cops in these types of books, he couldn't catch a cold.
She does a favor for uber-bounty hunter Ranger (who is a former SEAL.
Why is a SEAL going by the name Ranger, which is an army designation?) Ranger CAN catch a cold, but probably not pneumonia.After much carrying on, things work out in the end.I rolled my eyes a lot.
I'm listening to Lean Mean Thirteen on cd at work.
Twice today I burst into laughter and had to fake a coughing fit to disguise my inappropriate behavior.
The line "I stapled him in the balls." completely undid me.Finished it.
Liked it.
However...I'm getting a little tired of all the Ranger-calls-her-Babe stuff.
I mean, is it really necessary for her to have two hot guys battling for her attention?
I'd like it better if Ranger fell heavy in love with someone else and he and Steph became just the best of friends...they always have each others' backs, but the flirting is so tired.
Stephanie Plum's ex-husband, Dickie Orr, has disappeared and Stephanie is the prime suspect in his disappearance.
Joe Morelli, the hottest cop in Trenton, New Jersey, is also keeping Stephanie on her toes and he may know more than he's saying about many things in Stephanie's life.
It's a cat-and-mouse game for Stephanie Plum and the ultimate prize might be her life....
I'm getting tired of the love triangle with Joe Morelli and Ranger and I wish Stephanie would finally choose one of them or else dump them both and date someone new!
That being said, I will still continue to read the series.
Basic InfoFormat: AudioPages/Length: 6rhs and 43minsGenre: MysteryAt A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Triangle.
Cliff Hanger: ehTriggers: n/aRating: 3 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot: 6Characters: 7World Building: 7Flow:  6Series Congruity: 8Writing: 7Ending: 7Total: 6In DeptBest Part: It was short.
Worst Part: I got bored.Thoughts Had: oh no!; ugh.ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: yesShort Review: Welp, this one fell a bit flat for me.
It could have been way better, Plum was accused of killing Dickie!
Come on, there should be tons of action and adventure, but i was bored.
I needed wayyy more Lula.Misc.
Book Boyfriend: Ranger!Best Friend Material: Lula!Review in GIF Form:
Evanovich NEVER disappoints and the only thing betteer than her witty banter dialogue is the situations that her characters find themslves in. If you need a good laugh--pick up any of the Stephanie Plum books by Evanovich and ENJOY !!
:: 5 Pretty Little Stars :: Janet Evanovich NEVER lets me down with her Stephanie Plum novels.
Whenever I am looking for something light, funny, and known for its entertainment value I pick up a Plum novel.
I know some people think that her work in terms of this series is getting old, but if she stopped publishing these novels I think people would miss them.
For all I care she can write 100 of them and I will read them all!Clearly, I really enjoyed this installment of the series.
For anyone who hasn't read this series YOU NEED TOO!
Great book, as always.
In this book we get to know Stephanie's ex-husband.
What a jerk!
Explains her commitment issues.
After some time with him I would have been committed...to an asylum.
Or maybe just arrested for manslaughter.
It's so relaxing when an author makes the characters so easily defined.
No redeeming traits makes the real jerks so much easier to smack around.Reread May 2018 — Ok. Although I still love this book and I still love Steph and the gang, I’m still ticked off at Morelli.
How could he have kept the Dickie info from Steph?
The Stephanie Plum series is definitely in decline. While this novel has a promising plot (Stephanie's ex-husband disappears, and she's a suspect), the storyline is just plain flat, mainly because the author insists on borrowing scenes and dialogues from her previous Plum books.I didn't even have much interest in the main characters, who have had virtually no character development in the last several books.I'm really starting to feel as though Evanovich is just phoning it in these days. Sad. This used to be a series that had me breathlessly waiting at the bookstore for each new installment.
Another great fun read in the Stephanie Plum series. The cases and mystery were interesting with a different twist. In the series, each Friday night dinner at the parents' home seems more humorous than in the previous book. The last few have been so funny that I wondered how Evanovich could continue ramping up the laugh factor. She managed in Lean Mean Thirteen.
Laugh out loud amusing silliness and full action is what you always get from all the Stephanie Plum novels. Easy, fun, thrilling and funny. When real life gets too heavy and you need a break, grab any of these novels for a needed vacation from whatever ails you. Works for me!
(Which if you start such a book where it just gets plain ridiculous, it helps to not put it down and actually think about what the heck you are currently reading)- it never surprises the reader (at least not in the big plot kind of ways, because the actual story plot?
Which is just refreshing, I do not need he reality of animal deaths in this book series, so evanovich lets just keep those guys alive through out this whole thing, and say that is just how the plum luck works.Also am I only person alive that things that the whole ranger/plum/morreli relationship stuff could just be solved when they all get together and call it a day?
This was one of my favorites in the series.
It has the same great cast and characters.
Of course it's the same opinion and probably the same as we all feel about ours, ha!
If you've read previous books in the series you can probably surmise that things will get a little hairy.
Never fear, after the repeated stunnings that Joyce Barnhart has given Stephanie, Stephanie does turn the table on Joyce, maybe one of the funniest parts in any of the books so far.
It is amazing how I never tire of these books.
I will continue on with the series.
Ah, Stephanie, you and I are breaking up.
Perhaps it's the horrible fascination with which car you'll blow up next or what might written on your underwear or how you'll injure and/or humiliate the odd professional thug who comes your way.
And then there's your grandmother...Oh, you're funny enough, I'll grant you that.
But really, after 13 books couldn't you have learned ANYTHING that might make you the slightest bit less incompetent as a bounty hunter?
No wonder your mother is a secret drinker.
I, however, not being related to you, am over you.
A bunch of us girls who love this series went on a road trip to meet the author and have this book signed when it came out.
Though I love this entire series, a bit let down by this book....
It may of had to do with the fact that the author was a TOTAL LET DOWN.
I wasn't expecting her to bow down and thank our group for spending hundreds of dollars on her books over the years..
or thank us for telling everyone we knew to read them as well....
I was just expecting a smile.
I always love Stephanie Plum but this one wasn't my favorite..still good though.
A reasonable read. I guess I wanted something light and easy to read, following the previous book I read. Janet's books are a good reliable option and this one didn't disappoint.
Another fun installment in the loveable, blundering bond enforcement agent Stephanie Plum series.
Which made me laugh out loud several times.
This time, Stephanies in hot-water over her ex-husband's disappearance.
As usual, Stephanie, Lula, and Connie are a gas.
All these characters, even the cops as bounty hunters, all seem to care about each other.
So you end up laughing more with the cast than at their antics.
but I just don't care.
Even if I would love meet and date a Stepahnie in real-life...
It's 3,5 stars, but I rounded up to 4 because the series is so damned life-affirming and fun.
Stephanie tracks FTA's, destroys cars, and gets involved in tracking down 40 million stolen dollars that her ex husband has taken from his gun dealing drug smuggling mail order lawyer partners. Includes exploding taxidermy projects. A fun read
3.5*Pas le meilleur tome mais on passe un super moment avec Stéphanie et toute sa clique !
I love how sections of these books make me laugh out loud.Totally unbelievable situations, but good for comedic effect.
These still make me laugh. Stephanie sure can get herself into a pickle sometimes but she always manages to find a way out.
And that "about fifteen minutes" after that, Stephanie filed for divorce.But I'm tired of a lot of the things that get said over and over in each book to "catch up" anyone who might not have read the upteen books that came before.But no.
Since he's the plot in this one.**Okay, random Goodread Reader, you should know this is a pretty general talking-about of the Stephanie Plum series up to this point, not just a nice little contained review of this book.**And more than ever I'm thinking that the very best thing that could happen to Ranger would be for Stephanie to slap the taste out of his mouth.
