https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124679.Shock_for_the_Secret_Seven
Scamper Goes Missing!4 November 2015 Well, fortunately there is only one more Secret Seven (and one more Famous Five) book for me to read so I guess I should be looking forward to the fact that I don't have to read any more Enid Blyton books (and can start churning into some other books that I have been itching to read for a while, such as Red Dwarf). Don't get me wrong, I have really enjoyed my travel back in time by rereading these books that I read when I was a kid (though with these Secret S
This happens pretty much right at the beginning, and unlike a lot of the other Secret Seven books this one seems to jump straight into the action with dogs going missing all over the village, a mysterious man in big boots, and of course the mystery as to how this guy managed to get Scamper without the dog making a single noise.
Of course everything works out in the end, the Secret Seven solve their mystery (and as you can probably guess, the fact that Jack has actually left the group sets it up for him to work everything out) and they end up getting Scamper back.
It was a little bit boring at the starting but it was a exciting story at the end.
Good grief, not Scamper! Imagine if someone stole Timmy! Wait, did anyone ever steal Timmy?
More adventure and mystery from the seven youngsters here as the series begins to look tired and old - this time dognappers and Scamper is at risk. Oh no - and why is Scamper not a member of the group but Timmy a member of the five? He must not be a member of the union perhaps. Anyway - the usual formula is followed here pretty much to precision even to the password saga of each book.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.

Yet another fun and fair mystery. I was kept guessing till (almost) the very end. On the minus side, it does reuse ideas of an earlier book. On the plus side, it closes with a terrific sentimental scene.Back cover blurb:"Dogs are disappearing in the village where the Secret Seven live! But the Seven are too busy quarreling to investigate! Then poor Scamper disappears..."I read the Galaxy Children's Large Print Edition, ISBN 0-7540-6152-3, 134 pages.(Finished 14:23EST 2007-12-05.)
I really enjoyed this one. There were enough red herrings that I even second guessed my own predictions. I got a bit choked up at the end.**Interview with my kids**Me: What did you think of that one?Him: Super awesome dawesome sawsome.Her: Dood (Good).Me: What was your favourite bit?Him: When the dogs came home.Her: When Damper (Scamper) come home.Me: Which dog was your favourite?Him: Scamper! I wish my dog was Scamper.Her: Damper (Scamper).
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Secret Seven) Features 7 children who form a backyard club. They love to have meetings with SecretPasswords, etc. Soon, they begin to fall into mysteries. This series is for the younger reader than the other series Enid Blyton wrote for children. 8-10 years old maybe.Great reading. introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
Enid Blyton was my favorite author as a child. There's a reason behind all this. I simply love her writing. She's definitely inspirational. Even though I'm too old for The Secret Seven books, I really enjoyed this book and thought it was well-written and crafted.
All The Dogs in the town Start to disappear , Even Janet's And Peter's Dog , Scamper.Is there a dog Thief in the town? And Who Is the dog Thief? I liked it , But it was A little bit Boring , And I can say that the thief Was A little bit Predictable :P
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
nice but too predictable
The one with the dog-napping postman. The ending of this book was very moving! :)
Okay fine yeah. They had me guessing! It was good fun!
I can feel the sense of excitement and at last,exhilaration as I read this book,reading how the seven children solve mysteries which I felt was unsolvable for them.
reminds me of our school library....nice to see my daughter readin this
it was quite exciting like all their adventures and mysteries
i wonder if kid today read these books then make little secret clubs just like my friends and I did as a child?
1334th - 2011
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
The best book ever read
I thought it was a really good book and would recommend it to people who like Enid Blyton in general.
Dogs are being stolen all over the village and poor old Scamper is one of them, although he was probably glad to get away from pompous Peter for a while!
crecí leyendo sus libros y me sirvieron bien
Exciting and interesting especially scamper scampering around!
