https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2902741-mental-efficiency
A google search by my brother presented the possibility that Betty Sue Hale was the youngest child of Luther and Hattee Hale from Tennessee which made Betty Sue 13 years old in 1948 and now most likely dead already (or still alive, at 78, with eyes that had long ceased to be capable of reading fine prints).BOOKSALE could also be "books" and "ale" for the books here, like ale (beer), can intoxicate.
Buying more than what we are capable of reading in our lifetime is just like going to a food buffet: we are not expected to eat everything there, just those we fancy trying (k.d.--"the more apt analogy here is going to a library where you do not pay for all the books on display.
This guy is a genius, great analysis, good advice and astounding way of conversation between the author and the reader!He talked about various topics, psychology, a little bit of philosophy, and the will of power and its relation with sincere desire.Some quotes:Most writers on success are, through sheer goodness of heart, wickedly disingenuous.
To address the population at large, and tell it how to separate itself from itself, is merely silly.One of our chief national faults is our hypocritical desire to suppress the truth on the pretext that to admit it would encourage sin, whereas the real explanation is that we are afraid of the truth.
My mom and I have a long tradition of listening to books on tape (well, really I guess they were CD’s mostly) when we would travel.
When Minnie and I were driving back from Olympia this weekend, we continued this tradition.
We listened to Mental efficiency, and other hints to men and women by Arnold Bennett.
Really, I think it is more of a collection of essays, but he has proven to be a timeless writer even with more than 100 years between its first being published and now.Read the rest of my book review on my blog, How's Your Mental Efficiency, a Review of Arnold Bennett's Book or more reviews.
The importance of pay attention to exercising the brain just as much as we preen the body.
Bennett wrote a number of self-help books in this vein, and all are in my opinion worth reading or listening to, at least the handful I've tried so far.
I've already quoted him on the air on his views regarding the benefits of books that you buy and keep on the shelf but will probably never read.
Though Bennett claims to have been reluctant to share something so personal and close to the core of his being, he offers in the last chapter his rather Buddhist view of human life, with a bit of enlightened, non-dogmatic Christianity mixed in.
This is a fun read. Not only is it a charming look into the time period in England, much of the advice, with slight modifications, still applies today. The chapter on books could easily be translated to current arguments about ereaders vs physical books. The argument about the cult of the body and physical exercise vs mental exercise certainly applies today! A wonderful read, I highly recommend all read this, keeping in mind the times it was written in.
I ran across this book by chance and listened to most of it as an audiobook; then liked it so well that I pulled it up on Gutenberg.org and read the whole thing in print. I'd never read anything by Bennett, and I'm glad to make his acquaintance. He is at the same time sensible and hilariously witty.
I have the 1911 edition. I read this as a youngster in Junior High, along with 'How to Live on 24 Hours a Day' 1910 editionand 'Self And Self-Management' 1918 edition.I referred back to them all the way through college.They helped me stay 'on track' and achieve.
Another excellent book by Arnold Bennett. It's a candid collection of Bennett's thoughts on Success, Marriage, Mental Efficiency, buying/not buying books and many more burning topics of life. Again a short read, but very pragmatic.
This was described as one of the first self help books. An interesting and sometimes very funny commentary on "mental efficiency", and the authors commentary on marriage, success and other things. I will put it on my to read again list. 3.5
I really enjoy reading this author. For this particular book, however, I am still puzzling how the chapters following the first are related to the title. Nevertheless, I gleaned some useful advice from this book and would read it again.
I forgot to log in when I finished this, so I'm guessing 2/28/13. This was quite entertaining, with many funny quotations to remember, lots of pithy humor.
Rarely have I seen such a good analysis on life, culture and the values of the human being.
That is not saying that the book falls into the trap of inducing the reader into weariness with redundant details.
As small as this book is, it packs quite a punch.I picked it up in order to have a small reading on a commute and even from the first page I knew that I had bought something good.Aside the fact that I resonate with most things written in there, I genuinely love the way it's written.Look at, for instance, how he ridicules these "Get fit with 10 minutes a day" programs: "I, too, lay on the floor, my delicate epidermis separated from the carpet by only the thinnest of garments, and I contorted myself according to the fifteen diagrams of a large chart (believed to be the magna charta of physical efficiency) daily after shaving.
Mental Efficiency And Other Hints to Men and Women Arnold Bennet (1913)I honestly thought this was a book about psychology and ended up liking what substance I found in it.
The highlight for the whole books what that section of books.How funny that reading and writing go hand in hand.
Of particular interest is the fact that buying books and having them arranged on a shelf does not necessarily mean you are going to read them.
The notion you have that you have classics arranged on your shelf is in itself a hindrance to reading.A good book to read.
A nice conversation whit the reader, not much to learn but considering when this book was writen this is accualy preaty amazing. I shall recomend this book to newcommers into psycologi. Indeed a good read if you have a hour of your live to read a good book. not
Not much new here
Some telling hints from the 20th century that 21st century has forgotten.
amazingly timely and very very well written.
v
loved it
FALSE
lol
