https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168445.A_History_of_Civilizations
The conqured always submit to the stronger; but their submission is merely provisional when civilisations clash.Jaw dropping analysis and synthesis. Braudel took the heavy lifting of his notable trilogy and applied it to a primer, a survey of world history for young students. Starting with Islam and ending with Russia, Braudel uses the long view to explore the definitions of civilization and the migrations, faiths and systems which have cultivated such. I was staggered by the beauty of Braudel on India: luminous poetry.
Από τα ιστορικά εργα που άλλαξαν την αντίληψη του ανθρώπου για το χρόνο, το τόπο, την κοινωνία.
Ο Μέγας Μπροντελ δίνει την ουσία των πολιτισμών και διαβάζει τον καθένα μέσα από τα κύρια χαρακτηριστικά του.
Οι σελίδες όπου αναλύει την λατινική και βόρεια Αμερική μέσα από τους λογοτέχνες και την λογοτεχνία της αγγίζουν την αναγνωστική και γνωσιολογικη απόλαυση.
Αν και γραμμένο το 1963 δεν χάνει σε τίποτα από την νεοτερικοτητα.
Σημαντικό ανάγνωσμα για κάθε σκεπτόμενο άνθρωπο, γιατί αν ξέρεις το δρόμο που χαραχτηκε για να είσαι ΕΣΥ εδώ, σε ΑΥΤΗ την εποχή και σε ΑΥΤΟ το σήμερα, κατανοείς την εποχή σου και την αναλύεις ορθά, μακρυά από την ευπιστια και το φαντασιακό που η κοινωνία κουβαλά και ο άνθρωπος σαν μονάδα αντιμαχεται με ορθολογισμό.
It’s also not a history of civilizations - it deals with what Braudel considered the great living civilizations – and rather than being history as usually understood, it describes primary characteristics of each with some development over time.
The civilizations included are the Muslim World, Black Africa, the Far East (includes India), then Europe and European civilization elsewhere (to which he devotes half the book).In spite of the many gaps, blind spots and weaknesses, there are some real high points and original insights.
Ένα βιβλίο ιστοριογραφίας που δημοσιεύτηκε για πρώτη φορά το 1963 στη Γαλλία, με στόχο να ενταχθεί στο σχολικό πρόγραμμα της δευτεροβάθμιας εκπαίδευσης.Ο Braudel διακατεχόταν από την ισχυρή πεποίθηση πως ο πρωταρχικός ρόλος της Ιστοριογραφίας ήταν να μπορέσει να μας δώσει τη δυνατότητα, μέσω του παρελθόντος, να κατανοήσουμε την εποχή μας, και ως ένα σημείο, να προεικονίσουμε το μέλλον.
Έξι διαφορετικά μέρη των οποίων προηγείται μια εμπεριστατωμένη εισαγωγή όπου αποσαφηνίζεται το περιεχόμενο και η σημασία των πολιτισμών, εστιάζοντας στις καταβολές τους, τους πιο σημαντικούς παράγοντες εξέλιξης και τις ιδιαιτερότητές τους.Με τη σκόπιμη εστίαση στην ανάλυση Πολιτισμικών ιδεών και αρχών, εξοβελίζοντας τα γεγονότα από το προσκήνιο, ο συγγραφέας μυεί τον αναγνώστη στην πολυπλοκότητα του κόσμου, όπου ιστοριογραφία, οικονομία, πολιτική και πολιτισμικά πρότυπα αλληλοδιαπλέκονται.
When I first stumbled across Braudel, it was through his complex multi-volume  Civilization and Capitalism, 15th–18th Centuries  which I attacked as side-reading during my Western Civ class at Ohio State. And his insights, like the impact of Watt's and Newcomen's steam engine on the field of mining (and thus energy potential, spurring the British Industrial Revolution). In fact, his insights -- along with Ronan and Needham's  The Shorter Science and Civilization in China  made up my entire expos
The Shorter Science and Civilization in China
A history of Civilizations
Not only was the author an old friend, whose insights helped me get some great grades on my Western Civ papers in the late 80's, but the topic was my "new interest." First off, I liked the book.
And Braudel does a relatively even-handed job laying out histories of the Americas, Africa, The Middle East and China and the East.
I found a lot of the broad portraits too simplistic, something which shocked me in Braudel.
The book is doing exactly what a good middle school text aught do -- introduce me to a topic.
While at times Braudel is surprisingly egalitarian and open-minded in his approaches, one still can’t help but notice that France is in a somewhat special place in the book, and that blanket statements about how “they” live in various non-Western cultures pop up every now and then (the section on “Black Africa,” though clearly well-meaning, shows its cringe-inspiring age).
The Cold War is also peaking at about this time, and so a large section of the book is dedicated to the Soviet Bloc, despite its chronological brevity when compared with societies within Islam and China.
Centralized curriculums are a generally bad idea, but when you've got one written by Fernand Braudel, it is hard not to be jealous of France.
I have been saving Braudel for years, on the mistaken assumption that my French would improve enough to take him on in his original language.
In the 60s he undertook the design of a curriculum for the French school system.
The book is what it says, a history of all the world civilizations that a mid-century academic thought worthy of inclusion.
Time to dive back into those French books so I can finally read The Mediterranean in the Age of Philip II.
I have read it in Russian translation. But it is the best history book for the upper classses. It both gives a wide picture of the worlв civilizations and at the same time builds clear links between past, present and future. The approach to the history announced by Braudel on my mind is the most productive and humanitarian one. The book is amazing bot only for its brilliant fact showing bu talso for method used, for example it gives clear and deep explanation of "civilization" as a notion in use.
Мюсюлманският свят От главата за исляма и мюсюлманския свят, освен подема на арабските учени в науката, „Златният век“ на Исляма (813-1198 г.) и пр., по подробен начин е описан пътят на идеите на Аристотел по протежението на Близкия Изток и африканския континент към Западна Европа, за да достигнат до там през Гибралтар в края на 12 век.
„През целия 16 век може би 100 000 мъже напускат само Севилия, за да поемат към Новия свят.“ Всяка страна в Латинска Америка има свой собствен фолклор, музика, приказки, които с времето са формирали множество конгломерации с африканските традиции, вярвания, магически ритуали, християнския католицизъм и пр.
“Find the key to a civilization: Greece, a civilization of the Aegean, from Thrace to Crete—and not a Balkan peninsula.
Egypt, a civilization that tamed the Nile.” This, Braudel writes, is the key to understanding the currents of history.
But Braudel goes beyond history to paint a broad brush picture that draws on anthropology, sociology, geography, psychology, and linguistics.
He writes in an engaging style, with “thick” descriptions that bring the larger story of humanity to life.
Quite dated now, of course, but an enjoyable overview nonetheless.
The bits of this book that dealt with ancient civilisations I really enjoyed, but the main problem with the book was just how much was written about the 20th century from the perspective of 1962.
This is a much more recent edition and seems to have more pages so perhaps that has been corrected, but as it stands this is not a book I would readily recommend to someone.
This was quite a revolutionary book being written in 1987.
I was referred to Braudel through a number of history books and was drawn to him because he changed the way history is viewed and taught - changing the focus on epochs and drawing in influences of geography, sociology and diplomacy.
The book was quite an undertaking to write and at 570 pages was somewhat tough to get through.
While comprehensive it did get quite heavy during the European section, as the author is French and most familiar with this material.The only drawback is that so much has happened since the book was written that it is a bit dated.
This book is an overview of the history of the currently existing civilizations(in 1962 when it was written)I.e it is a broad view that looks at large strokes of history.
He looks at the macro patterns of these civilizations, and this is where the interesting insights come in that make the book worth a read.
If you keep in mind this was written in 1962 you would enjoy this book.
He does make some predictions that in retrospect seem silly, but everything else is quite interesting.
All in all, I recommend this book if you're interested in history.
Basically an excellent overview of civilisations through history.
The long view which makes a good counterpoint to the more typical short-term histories.
Also useful in that the book makes an effort to cover all the world's civilisations not just the European ones.
That said, Braudel, who was writing in the early sixties, does come over all condescending sometimes in discussing 'primitive' peoples.
The Aborigines of Australia are described as "a living museum of archaic primeval ways" with their lives being "meagre".
I guess Braudel never heard of Dreamtime.Such infelicities aside I can still recommend this book to those interested in the big-picture view of human history.

Obviously a broad minded genius, but it is interesting to read this in view of the times, and the prophesies he makes, some fulfilled and some not.
My main problem with the book was that he had a very clear western-centric mindset and this rigidly showed with the disparity between his description of the countries in ''the west'', such as the U.S. and Europe and countries such as Africa and Latin America.
The chapters about Africa and Latin America were markedly different.
Africa is continually described with metaphors of ''darkness'' and ''hopelessness''.Latin America was described in much of the same terms.
Some parts are hilarious in retrospective, although if you get some context, you can see why the author predicted what he predicted.Of course, the division of the world and historical periods is adjusted to the way a Frensh sees the world (pretty much as the way hollywood or the dominand american culture views history and the planet from the perspective of an American).
I know you cannot avoid ideological condamination in history, but I feel like he didn't even try...On the plus side, it was an amusing read, with many facts that stand up as anecdotes or impressive trivia.
I'm amazed by the author's brilliant intellect, mental clairvoyance, vast cultural and factual background, let alone his highly elegant writing style. To the extent that I now regard Braudel as one of my favorite writers and surely one of the best historians ever. This 750-page book is a rich collection of illuminated and illuminating narratives on the surviving world civilizations, covering a wide range of their aspects: religious, sociological, psychological and economic ones.
Great opening chapter, but then descends into a slightly suspect, rather dated history of the world.The central initial thesis, promising to shed light on what civilization actually is, is swiftly abandoned in favour of a simple linear historical narrative of various regions and countries. Some of this is interesting, but not interesting enough to bother with the rest. And much is decidedly suspect, especially the Africa chapters.A shame, as I've liked much of his other stuff.
Originally published in 1963, this provides rather a shallow overview of several areas of civilization: Islam and the Muslim World, Africa, The Far East, and European Civilizations, which includes the Americas.There's an extensive Introduction by the translator (Richard Mayne) about the author and his point of view regarding history.Not an easy read, but not terribly difficult, either.
pequena "enciclopédia" com comparações pertinentes e de qualidade, que nos permite uma visão global/mundial do conceito de civilização. é, contudo, um livro datado e as referências positivas ao colonialismo francês para além de duvidosas são desnecessárias
A very broad overview of world history. Weirdly reductive and full of French exceptionalism.
Доста амбициозно начинание...
dated but that adds to its interesting aspects.
A most extraordinary history book !
It seems a pretty interesting and ambitious idea to write a history of "civilizations" that exist up to the present, viewing them from all different angles and even attempting to make some predictions.
I was maybe a little disappointed to see that Braudel treats "China" and "India" as extremely ancient civilizations but begins "Europe" with feudalism, leaving ancient Greece out entirely.
Also, as Braudel is fairly frequently referred to by radicals, I was surprised that he had such an uncritical view of such ideas as "growth," "progress," "development," "modernization," etc.
Certainly, Braudel's bizarre and unjustifiable (but completely "normal" for the time) notion that colonialism was not all that bad is less frequently voiced today.
The scope of this book is vast, covering the history of civilizations in the world almost from the dawn of history itself.
Braudel first wrote the book in the 1960's in the hopes it would provide the basic history curricullum in French Universities.
In so doing, his book has become quickly dated as far too often he thinks the Communist model will truly prove a successful competitor to capitalism.
The book does, however, provide some useful insights into Islam as well as world history and colonialism from the French perspective.
Interestingly, but perhaps not surprisingly, Braudel doesn't think colonialism was all bad for the colonized.
Braudel was a French historian who wanted to talk about history from several points of view rather than from the vantage of Big Men and their times.
This book was written in 1963 and intended as a high school text, but it was never widely adopted.
It was refreshing for me to read a book about world history and civilization written from a European perspective.
I majored in World History at an American university, and Braudel's vision is, if not unique (think of Daniel Boorstin, for example) then certainly unusual.
It is worth reading both for its novelty and for its European point of view.
