https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/487915.While_Still_We_Live
Helen MacInnes wrote While Still We Live in 1944, a year before the Allied victory, looking back at the days in 1939 when Adolf Hitler became determined to invade and occupy Poland.
That readers get to live a pivotal historic moment in real time gives this novel a worth beyond just the pleasure of an adventure story reasonably well told.
I would recommend this over most contemporary WWII novels simply because it gives a contemporaneous view that most modern writers miss.I've also just learned that the section on the Polish Resistance movement was so accurate that some believed MacInnes had learned the top secret details from her husband who served in Britain's MI6 intelligence unit.
The Resistance leaders all knew her father and while they don't want to put her in any danger, they have no choice since the Germans have interest in her.
An aunt gave it to me during one of our summer visits to Montreal - she told me it would be good for me to learn some history.
What I didn't find out until many years later was that my Aunt's long time friend, someone I knew well, actually fought in the Polish Resistance during the war and participated in the Siege of Warsaw, which made this book mean that much more to me.
This is probably my all-time favorite book. I read it once every two years or so. All of Helen MacInnes' books are fun reads--providing the reader with interesting characters, suspenseful plots, and intriquing locales, but this one has a depth to it that most of the others don't have. This is more than just a good World War Two, Espionage story. You are introduced to the heart of Poland and whether or not you have previously had any connection with this country or its people, you come away feeling as if you have seen their soul.
When Sheila, somewhat naively, accepts an invitation to visit Polish acquaintances in the countryside not far from Warsaw in the summer of 1939, she is oblivious to the fact that war is about to break out all over Europe.
Suddenly, it is too late to return to England, and Sheila belatedly realizes she is in danger.
However, learning for the first time that her father died in Poland makes Sheila realize she too would like to work toward Poland's freedom.
When she is mistaken for a German spy, suddenly there is an opportunity for her to work for the country she has learned to love against the Germans...
The fall of Poland to the Germans is depicted in such great detail, fraught with tragedies, inconveniences and general fascination.
Alan Furst MUST have read this before "The Polish Officer." There was a lot about the book that made me want to go to Poland--good landscape, interior and urban descriptions, good descriptions of both peasants and aristocrats, women and men.
But then, because this was written in 1944, the heroine, a great self-doubting smart young woman, falls in love, and so the finish was less impressive.
Having fallen in love myself, though, there are very great descriptions of that amazing rite of passage!
The story is that of Sheila, a young British woman who vacations to Poland in 1939, just before the outbreak of the war in Europe.
Pulled into a war that she never wanted to be apart of, and beginning to care about the Polish people whom she never really understood, Sheila begins to realize that now is time to act.
With a good balance of espionage, suspense and light romance, the story explores the themes of loss, hope, and retaining the human spirit in harsh circumstances.The characters are interesting and dynamic, and you really feel as if you come to appreciate the heart of the Polish people after reading this novel.
I found this book while in high school in the school library.
I absolutely loved it, and later read it again several times.
I also read many other books by this author, and althought she may be hard to find in your local library, most of her books are available on Amazon.com.
This book is a story of an English girl who is vacationing inPoland at the beginning of WWII.
The story is excellent and how she finds her true love is a great ending.
Also lots of suspense escaping the machinations of the nazi's, since she is English.
A moving tribute to the tragedy and heroism of the Poles during the1939 German invasion of Poland, the siege of Warsaw, and the resistance/underground movement.
4.5 stars for me.What if you were visiting Poland right as World War II broke out and Germany invaded the country and you were mistaken for a German spy?
This is the scenario presented in Helen MacInnes' fantastic suspense novel.
Sheila Matthews is a young British woman put into this situation, and what follows is her story of joining the Polish underground movement.
Perhaps one of the most interesting aspects of this novel is that it was written in 1944, while these events were fresh.
I thoroughly enjoyed the story and learned so much I didn't know about the German invasion of Poland, the siege of Warsaw, and the resistance/underground movement.

An early novel of Helen MacInnes', with its focus on the invasion and capitulation of Warsaw in 1939.
Sheila Matthews, a young British woman, is visiting friends in Poland when the threat of war becomes imminent.
She elects to stay in Poland and contribute to the war effort, but a complication arises when she is mistaken for a look-alike named Madalena Koch - who happens to be a German agent.
With all the MacInnes bravura, but a different tone from her later works.
This was published in 1944, when the war was still on, and you can tell MacInnes' heart is solidly with the Polish people.
I love Helen MacInnes's spy thrillers, set in the first half of the twentieth century in America and Europe. While Still We Live was my favourite book by Ms. MacInnes. Set in Poland in the days leading up to the Occupation, it gave me my first taste of modern history as a child. The love story is also tragic and very romantic. Overall, a thrilling re-enactment of a devastating time.
Another MacInnes book that became one of my all time favorite books. I read this as a teenager - stayed with me all these years later. Wonderful love story.
It's packed full of history, and I promise you'll feel like you're in the middle of it, and you won't feel like you're reading "history" at all.The story revolves around a young British woman, Sheila, who visits a family in Poland one summer, to give herself time to see if she loves one of the sons of the family.
Like the MC in many of MacInnes' books, Sheila becomes involved in the struggle and finds herself working undercover for the resistance.
Looking for a book that would keep my interest, I happened upon the 1944 novel "While Still We Live." This relatively early Helen MacInnes novel met all my expectations: a delightful hero who must pull out courage she didn't know she had, the invasion of Poland by the Germans, characters I believed in, villains I had no trouble despising and, of course, a love story.
The novel also gives us a clear picture of how life changed even for well-to-do Poles once the Germans took over.
Helen MacInnes was a celebrated writer of intenational intrigue, about whom I have read much but of whose work I have read nothing.
It was not the right choice, but I'm not discouraged and would be grateful if someone could recommend another, better, book by Ms. McInnes so I could try again.
The vehicle for this tribute is a somewhat wooden and pedestrian story of a young British woman who remains in Poland during the war and is motivated to work for the resistance there.
Some books age better than others.
A visitor to Poland at the start of WW II finds herself in Warsaw during the German invasion and unable to leave.
Five stars for how the author touches our hearts regarding the plight of the Polish people, and brings insight to the siege of Warsaw and the oppression in the villages.
The description of the land is marvellous and makes me want to visit Poland.
Three stars because the romance is a little clunky and the beginning gets off to a slow start.
Overall, it is a good read and more memorable to me than Furst's "The Polish Officer."
While written as popular fiction, this story provided more depth, insight, and emotion than we are used to in contemporary writing.
The story is about a young English woman caught in Poland during the Nazi invasion.
The reader comes away with a real understanding of the terror and valor in Warsaw as the bombs were falling.
There is adventure, and love, but not a standard HEA as the book was written before the end of WWII.
The reader today, however, understands how fragile is the happiness and hope of the lead characters.
I read this book several years ago and was very happy when I saw it was available in Kindle version.
I have read it again and enjoyed even more all the descriptions of the country side, the people and how the author described everything.
The story shows us about the courage the people from Poland had, about their history and how they fought for what they believed.
But I have to admit, since I read this book in my teen years, that I was a fan of Adam W.
I look forward to read more of her books.
The author, Helen Macinnes, was a female espionage writer in the early 1950's.
She was one of the few female writers in that genre, as men were considered more able to write about such things.
But, the head of the CIA is reported to have enjoyed her novels.
In addition, she based her novels on experiences she had as a newlywed traveling in Europe prior to WWII.
Culturally I found the books very interesting as they depicted roles of men and women of the era.
I have read a few of her novels, as they are easy to read.
An easy way to get a dose of history!

I consider this more adventure-romance than spy novel, and I tend to forget about MacInnes' slow build-ups. But once I settled into the pacing, I appreciated this book more and more. I know so little about Poland, and it was fascinating to learn about the WWII Polish Resistance. And more fascinating to think of this being published in 1944. From my very basic Googling, I'm pretty sure the realities of the Resistance grew more complicated, due to the Soviets. But MacInnes gave a real feel for the Polish landscape, culture, and people.
I've set a goal to read, or in many cases re-read, all,of Helen MacInnes's books. This is number 3. This is set in Poland during WWII, beginning just before the Germans attack. Sheila Matthews, visiting from Britain, gets drawn into the conflict spying for the Poles. There are many tense moments. The book paints a grim picture of Germany's take over of Poland. It does get a bit preachy in spots which I think is just MacInnes trying to get the reader to feel the horrors of war and man's inhumanity to man. Good book.
I read all of the MacInnes books back in the dark ages when they were written, and enjoyed the combination of suspense and romance they feature. This one's particularly enjoyable, especially after my experience teaching European history, because it gives a participants' eye view of the Nazi invasion of Poland with the heroic resistance of the Polish people. The book begins rather slowly, so I had to persevere to get into the book, but once the protagonist lands in jeopardy, the book really moves. The protagonist grows and becomes more admirable through the novel, which lends more charm.
Written in 1944, the events in this book are still painful and new. In one of this lady's books, the plot was so believable, Nazi stragglers were trying to find the setting, ( a fictional lake), they thought it was based on knowledge. There are a lot of characters and you just have to assume that they will all sort themselves out, and they do. She tells such good stores, but will change your way of viewing the world forever.
A young British woman is trapped in Poland during the Nazi invasion. She survives the siege of Warsaw and gets involved spying on the Germans. Eventually she joins a Polish guerrila group in the forests. I thought the siege and counterintelligence parts particularly gripping, but the last section was a bit too hokey. Written during the early days of the war, it has a certain touch that a book written after the war wouldn't have.
Liked book hutLearned many interesting facts about Poland and her people's courage, Faith, and love of their country as they suffered Nazi Occupation. Many interesting characters and vivid description of village life and Warsaw. But book too long and made parts boring. Main character Shelia portrayal confusing as she seemed in a daze and not too brit then at tis seemed to be amazingly brave and brilliant accidentally..
A sweeping novel of a young Englishwoman's romance with Poland during the invasion by the Germans. Sheila Matthews has come to Poland on vacation and just can't bring herself to leave so when the Nazis invade she bravely decides to stay and offers her assistance to the Polish restiance fighters. Great suspense, spy action, and realistic sense of how the invasion affected Poland.
This should totally be a miniseries. A British woman chooses to stay in Poland as the Nazis invade, and the consequences of that are manifold. It's fiction, but at least the general overview seems to ring true. Writing doesn't have to be gory to express the horrors of war. And it's fun when they are cursing in Polish - "Dog's blood!"
Have been reading MacInnes as family members prepare to go to Italy. This one is the story of a young British girl who gets stuck in Poland as the Nazis launch their offensive. She becomes involved in an underground group and endures a lot of hardship, basically a "spy" novel. Harder to read than the other titles I read by this author.
