https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62022.The_Queen_s_Gambit
At eighteen, Beth Harmon has established herself as the queen of American chess. She may be the most gifted player since Morphy or Capablanca; no one knows just how gifted she is – how great a potential she holds in that young girl’s body with its dazzling brain. To find out, to show the world if America has outgrown its inferior status in world chess, she will have to go where the big boys are. She will have to go to the Soviet Union. Imagine this story though. Beth, a plain, shy eight year ol
She sees Mr Shaibel, the janitor, playing a game on a board and by himself and soon finds out that it is called chess.
Beth soon discovers remarkable chess openings, such as the Sicilian defense, the Queen’s Gambit and the Stonewall Attack.
Beth actually planned the moves out in advance in her head and ended up stunning everyone with her play.
He learned to play as a seven year old and is now a class C player.I was really taken with the title and upon research found out that the Queen's Gambit is one of the oldest known chess openings.
It’s feeling really challenging to try to start my next (any) book because I doubt I’ll enjoy it as much as I liked this one.
In fact, some of my book club members were having a hard time getting a copy, so I quickly finished the last couple of chapters so that they could read my library copy before its due date.
If I had read this as a teen or young adult I’ll bet I’d have made an effort to learn and play chess games.
!!
I so adore this book.The twin passions of games (order, clarity, focus, beauty, creativity, competition, transcendence) and addiction (chaos, release, abdication, destruction, waste).
Tevis works these themes in all his books.
(I've read the book a dozen times and my pulse still races during the tournament scenes.) The characters are lovely and heartbreaking.
While not a stylist like Salinger or Nabokov or Kundera, and not as universal or varied as Atwood or Irving, Tevis succeeds perfectly in all his ambitions.
Perhaps more than any author I can think of, Tevis revealed his joys, fears, and inner landscape.
I'm a tad biased rating this.
In my youth, I was a chess junkie.
The rise of Bobby Fischer coincided with my early adolescence.
Thus I understand some of the technical stuff in this book and I can appreciate descriptions of well-turned wooden chess men.
But putting nostalgia aside, I wonder if slabs of the narrative would be inaccessible to non chess players.
The book was written in the early 1980s.
The writing style might have been cutting-edge then but things have moved on in 35 years.
I didn't hate the book but I wouldn't recommend it to non chess players.
I read somewhere that this is one of Lawrence Block's favourite stories.
Well, if it's good enough for LB...I'd enjoyed chess as a child and recall the hype and excitement surrounding the world championship match between Bobby Fischer and Boris Spassky, in the 70's.
This book captures the excitement chess can evoke (trust me) - and you don't even have to have played the game to enjoy it.The story of an eight year old orphan who transforms her life through chess is brilliantly told.
Makes me want to grab a chess set and set up the pieces!
Anyone fancy a game?
Greatness is this book.Tevis upset my understanding of writing and literature with "The Man Who Fell to Earth," and he did it again with this book.
There are no tricks, no boon-doggles, no fast-ones, and no gimmicks: the story unfolds the way the story needs to unfold, and all of it makes for great reading.
They loved the book, which overjoys me, because that might mean that Tevis has seven new adherents, who in turn can spread the word of his prose further.
This book moves me so fully; it makes me glad to be alive and glad to be reading.
Ciò nonostante, questo romanzo, che pure ha frequentissime descrizioni di agguerriti confronti tra giocatori esperti, mi ha veramente tenuta avvinta dall’inizio alla fine.Il fatto è che Tevis ha creato qui con Elizabeth Harmon un altro personaggio affascinante, al pari dell’alieno de “L’uomo che cadde sulla terra”.
Come del resto, un po’ “alieno” è stato lo stesso Tevis, che ha sofferto a lungo di depressione, nonché della schiavitù degli alcoolici.
Eppure quasi non si riesce a staccare gli occhi dalle pagine, nonostante non accadano moltissimi fatti.Il finale è più ottimista rispetto alla struggente malinconia di quello de “L’uomo che cadde sulla terra”.
Beth is an orphan and only 8 yrs old when we meet her.
She is quiet and clever and soon discovers she has a talent for chess when she is introduced to the game by the janitor.
The story follows Beth with her dream of playing chess at the top level, her struggle with alcohol and tranquilisers.There were some very good characters in this story, all with their own problems, their good and bad sides.
I enjoyed Beth's strong character and loved her matter of fact attitude.
I give this 4.5 stars as although the ending seemed fitting I really wanted to find out how Beth's life turned out.

The action is both on and off the chess board.
The star is Beth Harmon, a female chess prodigy who was orphaned at eight and learned chess by at first watching, then playing with, the janitor at the basement of the orphanage's school basement.
As punishment for stealing tranquilizers (to which she became addicted when the orphanage officials gave these to their wards regularly before) she was banned from playing the game for several years.
She was able to resume playing only at around thirteen and she quickly overwhelmed opponents and became the U.S. Chess Champion.Walter Tevis, who died in 1984, was a gifted storyteller.
I found this book on a stoop and it sat on one of my shelves for months if not years.
I pulled it off the shelf to give to a co-worker at a new job.
I thought he looked awfully bored and was letting his potential go in a mind-numbing position.
But I started reading the book on my way into this job and never put it down.
I enjoyed the way Tevis created a girl who was real, surreal, and stronger as a female than often portrayed.
Her wicked mind in chess captivated me.
The book was meant for ME to read.
I have way more than fifteen chess books now--probably closer to three times that--and I still revel in surprising victories and agonize over surprising defeats, against both human and computer opponents.From my personal page:Late Nov. 2004.
I'm still on the chess kick that began when I read this a year and a half ago (now have over 15 books in my "chess library," read a few pages, or play a game every day) so it's fair to say this book changed my life.3-11-17.
I know WAY more about chess than when I first read it and I still love it.
Mr. MagooDi per sè, la storia di una giovane orfana che si emancipa da una condizione difficile graz
E' incapace di rapportarsi con gli altri perchè non ama sè stessa, e per superare il suo malessere fa uso delle "pasticche verdi" per dormire che danno in orfanatrofio e dell'alcool.Il gioco degli scacchi è il suo modo di prendersi la rivincita verso il mondo che non la comprende.Chiaramente non sono riuscita a capire lo svolgimento delle partite descritto in modo preciso e puntuale da Tevis, ma questo non mi ha impedito di apprezzare il romanzo, ben scritto, e di rimanervi impigliata.Confesso che il gioco degli scacchi mi affascina, non avevo mai approfondito questo aspetto prima di leggere il libro.Penso che gli scacchi non siano un semplice gioco, siano una metafora della vita e delle battaglie, anche violente, che occorre combattere per conquistare il proprio posto nel mondo.
I think maybe this is may favourite kind of book.
It makes me think of Don Carpenter's Hard Rain Falling, Carson McCullers' The Heart is a Lonely Hunter and John Williams' Stoner.
Simple, measured, yet beautiful prose; a straightforward storyline about a life; melancholy and heartache and difficulty that is at the same time minute and all-encompassing.
Beth is a beautiful character and you cannot but feel and root for her, and while in the mix is plenty of plot, it is measured and each step thought and mulled over, examined and held up to the light, like the moves of a careful chess game.
Faccio prima a spiegare perché non prende cinque stelle.Be', non le prende semplicemente perché il romanzo è esattamente ciò che ti aspetti dalla prima riga, non dirò cosa per evitare spoiler, tanto l'avete già capito.Tevis scrive così appiccicato alla trama che neanche lo noti, evita con grande accuratezza tutto il superfluo, ogni compiacimento. La partita che gioca è essenziale e diretta, sembra quasi non esserci un narratore in queste pagine, solo una storia.
I haven't in many years, but having known the game I could relate and get excited with some of the game developments.But, towards the last third or so of the novel, the matches were running very thin for me, to the point where I had to start skimming through them.
The Queen's Gambit ultimately follows Beth's rise in the chess world.
There is some very good character development but towards the end of the novel this took second place to the competitions.For this reason, this was ultimately a disappointment for me.
An hour later she drew Goldmann and Board Three. She walked into the tournament room at exactly eleven, and the people standing stopped talking when she came in. Everyone looked at her. She heard someone whisper, "Thirteen fucking years old," and immediately the thought came into her mind, along with the exultant feeling the whispered voice had given her: I could have done this at eight.
What did I think?Like most chess novels, it just doesn't ring true if you are involved at a competitive level. If you aren't, then I imagine this is a fair way to spend an aeroplane trip. Me? It irritated me constantly, but I've given it a second star on the basis that if I wasn't me, I probably would have liked it.
I had never heard of Walter Tevis, but the description of this book interested me, so I bought it.
I haven't played chess since I was in junior high and I've forgotten a lot, but "The Queen's Gambit" brings it all back.
One day, Beth notices the school janitor, Mr Shaibel, playing some chess.
"Boys came in from the hallway and lined up along the back wall to watch the homely girl from the orphanage at the edge of town who moved from player to player with the determined energy of a Caesar in the field, a Pavlova under the lights."After Beth is adopted by the Wheatleys, she begins to compete in larger tournaments for money - and wins them.
I really like Beth Harmon and really enjoyed her story.
This book, first published in 1983--a year before Tevis' death--features a strong, appealing female protagonist focused on winning at chess. Beth Harmon carries the book with her story as a savant who visualizes complex chess plays as readily as people breathe.I recommend this book for the unusual Asperger's-like characterization of Beth, her genius, and her courage. However, readers should be aware that The Queen's Gambit is dense with arcane chess terminology.
On a long plane trip, I started reading "The Queen’s Gambit." The author was Walter Tevis, who had also written "The Man Who Fell to Earth" and "The Hustler" (and who would later write "The Color of Money").
This is the dream novel: 100% story.Here, for example, is Beth, freshly orphaned, breaking through her shyness to confront the silent giant of a custodian who spends his days playing solitary chess in the orphanage’s furnace room:”Will you teach me?" Mr. Shaibel said nothing, did not even register the question with a movement of his head.
We decided to play some chess since I knew the moves from high school days and thought it would be fun.Well, he knew a lot more than the moves as he kicked my butt night after night.
Joined the local club, learned to play in tournaments, got caught up in the fever of the Spassky-Fischer match, loaded up on books, took lessons,etc.
One reason it took me back to the days of my serious play is that the games are described using "descriptive notation" - not moves, per se, but lines like "moving the pawn to the king's bishop 5 square presented complications".
How many of us know about the hours of fanatic analysis and study of past games go in the name of ‘preparation’ or that a whole world of magazines, clubs and publications devoted solely to the technicalities of Chess are lapped up by a small tribe of chess aficionados.The final showdown between Beth and the Russian champion had all the elements of becoming a jingoistic propaganda-like rendering (especially since this work was written during the Cold War).
A fitting tribute to the character of Beth.
The novel traces the coming of age of its protagonist, Beth Harmon, orphaned at the age of eight, who turns out to be a chess prodigy and is playing against the best players in the world by the time she's a teenager.
You wouldn't think that a thriller whose plot centers mostly on chess would be very exciting, but it's a credit to the author that I felt the same sense of urgency around the chess matches as the protagonist did (this despite only having a rudimentary understanding of chess).
Some of the Cold War commentary is interesting too, especially given the time the book was published.Easily the best novel I've read so far this year.
I found this book lying on a table at the library one day and started reading it. A great story--I keep recommending it to people but I don't think anyone's taken me up on it yet.
A joy to read from front to back. Whether you know chess or not, I would highly recommend this book. Loved it.
I liked this story of a young girl's coming of age while becoming a world chess prodigy. I also like that she is a female prodigy in a men's world. Although her love of chess drives her to overcome huge life challenges (loss of parents, difficult upbringing, addiction to tranquilizers and booze) and emerge with hope...Beth's personal life is just so sad, leaving me sad as well. Also, although I played in a few high school tournaments, the extended game descriptions could turn off some readers who don't know the game.
Finito in un giorno e mezzo. Che altro dire... Immersivo. Emozionante. Tevis, lo adoro.
