https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68452.Pani_Jeziora
This review can be found on Amaranthine Reads.We come to the end of the Witcher series, and I say thank Belzebub for that.
I suppose the time I had invested and a small spark of hope that the end may have been worth it all...The Lady of the Lake is the final book and it brings the whole saga to an end, with Ciri finding herself in another world having gone through the Tower of Swallows and trying to get back, to find Geralt and somehow end the war that has been ravaging her home.Oh, where to start.
There is also a moment where some characters actually ride off in to the sunset, as if that isn't the most clichéd thing that has ever existed as a plot device.
Whose that read the books of the series starting with the third one - the first one in the format of a novel - know that author likes jumping between POVs and time but somehow manages to make this not confusing.
Finally the third chapter gets much better returning to Geralt and his sidekicks (see, I just spoiled you that the guy is alive in the beginning of the last book).
I realized that the series would be better off as short story anthologies like the first two books.
This is the final tale in the dark fantasy series The Witcher, and all though it had a decent start the ending will, no doubt, disappoint many readers.
It's an interesting idea, one that merges history and fantasy creating an almost dream like feel within the writing, though it never delivers what it promises.
It was hard to tell when events were happening in relation to each other, and at times the book felt like a series of connected short stories or novellas rather than the full novel it was trying to be this time round.
These are timeless concepts, and by no means original to the series; yet they are striking nonetheless, by virtue of their flawless execution, and the degree to which we come to care about what happens to Geralt, Ciri, Yennefer, and the others.“The Lady of the Lake” is also stylistically daring.
Geralt, Yennefer, and Ciri transcend life and death, and become myth and legend -- which is what the whole Nimue/Condwiramurs angle was designed to convey.
(hide spoiler)] Some people may dislike the ending, but I really love how Sapkowski plays with the ideas and tropes around myths and legends.
Lady of the Lake is an unfortunately poor conclusion to one of the finest fantasy series ever written. Sapkowski attempts to mix in too many new things, his transitions between times and places are very poorly executed and quite overused, and everything about the ending itself is either too much of a cliché, or simply ridiculous.I've stayed with this saga for many years now, and it remains one of my favourites. Especially the knowledge that the game series takes the franchise to perfection, is a comfort.
Me ha dado muchísima pena terminar esta saga.Me gusta mucho como escribe Sapkowski, aunque hay algun
Teško je jednim review-om obuhvatiti četvoromesečnu zabavu koju mi je pružilo čitanje serijala o Vešcu, ali hajde da pokušam.Slabo stojim sa serijalima epske fantastike - osim neizbežne Tolkinove trilogije "Gospodar prstenova" (pridodaćemo tu i "Hobita" jer je, zapravo, tu cela priča počela), mamutskog "Točka vremena" i nedovršene "Pesme leda i vatre" (spremna sam da se kladim da Martin nikad neće ni završiti serijal), "Saga o Vešcu" je došla kao prijatno iznenađenje, ne samo što se tiče worldbuilding-a, već i stila pisanja, kao i pristupa uobičajenim temama kojima se epska fantastika obično bavi (mislim da sam spomenula već jednom uvek-ponavljajuće motive o Odabranom, o Proročanstvima i bla-bla-truć).Krajnje je uobičajena stvar da pisci poturaju reference na razna književna i ina umetnička dela koja su ih inspirisala i motivisala da se i sami bave pričanjem priča.
With that in mind, I don't think I can give this book that fair of a review because I just didn't know what the characters did in the previous books or how any of the events unfolded.
I love everything about Arthurian England and I think the author used the inspiration excellently while still putting his own twist on it.The writing is the other thing I love about this book.
It's translated, but even in translation, his writing style is truly a pleasure to read.
That being said, I think I would have enjoyed this more if I had read the previous novels so I might go back and read the first one.
The problem with this series is that it felt like one ENORMOUS tumour had begun to manifest in it by the end of the second book, and grew to full form at the fifth.
I truly loved her character from the beginning, but by the end I felt like the author didn't even bother to sugar-coat the fact that she had evolved into a very obnoxious Mary-Sue. The thing is I wouldn't have minded any of that had her Mary-Sueness not manipulated the plot into something mundane, something dull and dulling and just so mundane.Here is why- the plot was wrapped up only with Ciri in mind.
However, I feel like some untapped potential died with the end of this series, and I’ll carry that disappointment with me for a while.There were so many new threads explored in the final novel of The Witcher saga that I wish had been left out in favour of more time spent with our favourite characters.
Sapkowski has always masterfully handled multiple time frames and locations, but I found myself for the first time wondering what was going on, where and when we were, and why the things that happened, happened.That said, I don’t feel entirely let down as I think the ending included some of the things that I’ve wished for, albeit not in entirely the manner I’d imagined.So it goes.Reading Order:1.The Last Wish (short story collection)2.
2) Despite all the jumping around we do, there was at least a sense that final volume was trying to pull everything together; whether it’s a nod to events in the previous books or tying up loose ends and bringing things full circle, the narrative made an earnest attempt at closure.
His narration was a big reason why I stuck with the audiobooks for this series, because when he reads he brings the stories and characters to life.
Throughout the whole series, I’ve grown so attached to so many characters and I hate to see them stranded away because they couldn’t fit the author’s weak excuse for a plot.
Instead of focusing on the characters like Geralt, Yennefer and Tris who were shamefully neglected in the previous books, Sapkowski introduces new characters who hold no significance to the plot and live 1000 years AFTER the crucial event.
I’ve grown attached to almost all characters, but by the end, most of them seem two-dimensional, passive and plainly dumb.
But here he just overdoes it: It's the longest book in the series with many half-baked resolutions, yet so many pages are dedicated to new side-characters that are irrelevant to the main plot in all ways but adding atmosphere.Now some grunts, beware of SPOILERS:Geralt discovers the info he's been seeking for 3 books because he just happen to monster-hunt in a cave where Skellen and his co-conspirators are having a meeting?!
Lots of build up on those characters and poor resolution.What really happened at Soden hill?
Και ξαναδιάβασα όλα τα βιβλία, από την αρχή, για να το χαρώ όπως του πρέπει.
Και δεν μπορώ να σας πω πόσο πολύ ανταμείφθηκα για την υπομονή μου, να περιμένω να κυκλοφορήσουν τα βιβλία, τόσα χρόνια.Μόλις τέλειωσα ένα μεγάλο ταξίδι.
Ένα ταξίδι που κράτησε δέκα χρόνια.
Ένα ανεκτίμητο ταξίδι, που μου έδωσε πάρα πολλά πράγματα.
περιμένει την κατάληλη στιγμή για να βουτήξει.Να βουτήξει στα βαθιά νερά, στα σκοτεινά νερά της ψυχής μας.
Τότε γίνεται ανυπόφορα συγκινητικός, σκληρός και τρυφερός ταυτόχρονα, γίνεται το κλάμα που ευχαριστείς τους θεούς, δαίμονες, την τύχη, ευχαριστείς σε ό,τι πιστεύεις και δεν πιστεύεις...
Που υπάρχει αυτή η ιστορία, η ιστορία του Geralt, της Ciri και της Yennefer.
Lei non è soltanto la regina dal sangue antico, ma anche la signora del tempo e dello spazio; viaggia in giro per i diversi mondi insieme a Kelpie, il suo cavallo e l'unicorno incontrato nel mondo degli elfi.E Geralt, Ranuncolo, Milva, Regis, Chair, Yennefer, le maghe, Vilgerforz, i re, i regni, la guerra?
Volevano Ciri, la incontrano, ma anche questa volta Ciri sfuggirà al loro controllo.L'elemento di novità che inserisce Sapkowski e la narrazione della storia, la leggenda di Ciri, da parte di Nimue (Sì sì proprio quella Nimue) che contribuirà affinché la Rondine prosegua il suo destino.
A rather unsatisfying conclusion to an overall great series.
Based on how the books ended, and the two months and a half that took to finish the seven books, i w
For the past months I've been reading almost only fantasy books, starting with George R. R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire, rereading LOTR, 'chilling' with Trudi Canavan. But it's 'cos of Sapkowski I redefined fantasy. The series is wise, intelligent and at the same time it's funny and light (in writing style). It shows that fantasy doesn't have to be pompous. And Sapkowski's writing style is pure genius!!!
*Minor spoiler alert* I dislike how the author decided to kill off some of the characters, i dont mind them dying , but you cant just kill one of the main characters who has been in at least 3 books , in 2 sentences.
*Spoiler alert* The deaths of Geralts litlle band of followers were so sudden and some just outright idiotic , that i was sure yenfer or ciri would revive them or that ciri would travel several hours in to the past and do it over again, or something.
Τα οποία και είτε κόβονται από εκεί και μετά ή χρησιμοποιούνται πολύ έξυπνα για να σου δώσουν τον επίλογο της μάχης.Το βιβλίο έχει και μία άλλη μεγάλη σκηνή δράσης (που την περιμέναμε εδώ και βιβλία) που είναι αντάξια χολυγουντιανού blockbuster - μόνο πως εδώ οι κακοί τρέχουν, παραδίνονται, φοβούνται, φέρονται σαν άνθρωποι ρε παιδί μου - και ενίοτε πετυχαίνουν και στόχο...Δυστυχώς, έχοντας παίξει τα παιχνίδια ήξερα το τέλος από πολύ νωρίς, αλλά αυτό δε μου στέρησε από την ανάγνωση - πέρα από το πώς θα με είχε αφήσει να κοιτάζω τις σελίδες αν έφτανα σε αυτό χωρίς να το ξέρω.Μία καταπληκτική φάνταζυ σειρά, με τις ιδιορυθμίες και ίσως τα προβλήματά της, που όμως την κάνουν τόσο ευχάριστη σε σχέση με πολλές άλλες δυτικότροπες του είδους.Ο Geralt, η Ciri, η Yennefer, ο Dandelion...
There is so much time dedicated to new and minor characters, while the main characters' lives (and especially deaths!) are glossed over.
While the gray morality theme has been enjoyably present in all of the witcher books, it has not previously been stated outright and over and over again by a slew of minor characters.
Geralt's time with Fringilla Vigo does not fit his character.
The mushy and constant declarations of love being traded between Ciri, Geralt, and Yennefer are also completely out of character.
This doesn't change the fact that Geralt, as well as many others, are great characters.

Que esta saga deberia estar reconocida como una de las mejores?
No, no puedo decir eso, porque no serian opiniones que apuntaran a la objetividad, aunque no creo que esta exista, tengo que intentarlo.
Escenas tan imponentes que dejan mal paradas a las peliculas de Hollywood.Sin olvidarnos del realismo, dentro de un mundo de fantasia algo muy destacable y puede que unico.Si, tengo que decir algo malo sobre el libro.
Porque pueden existir muchos libros buenos, pero sagas asi de epicas, no se encuentran todos los dias.
Edit: I had to round this up to 4 stars - I’m just too invested in the story and its characters to give it any less.
I’ve also grown to appreciate the ending a bit more.***************************************3.5 stars.
And so ends the Witcher Saga, which I've been steadily reading throughout the last year.
This has been used to great effect in previous instalments, a useful way to set the scene for big moments.
What a great villain.Overall, this is still a fantastic series well worth a read to experience the epic journey.
play The Witcher 3 ;)Series rating - 4.5 stars.
Jasně, je tu ještě prequel Bouřková sezóna, ale už asi nebude mít kouzlo rozsáhlé série.
Spád děje nabral na obrátkách, příběhové linky se uzavřely a závěrečný asi 100 stránkový epilog s ohlédnutím na navštívená místa a osudy postav jsem si naplno užil.
Se způsobem ukončení příběhu ale úplně spokojený nejsem, mnoho zůstalo nedořešeno.
Ve velké bitvě se vyřádil i historik v Sapkowskim, kdy nezapomněl ani na alternativní verzi "Toho bohdá nebude..." Jana Lucemburského.Jedná se o krásné literární dílo s unikátním stylem, kdy přeskakujeme mezi časovými úseky o mnoho (desítek) let tam a zpět i z perspektiv postav irelevantních pro hlavní příběh.
Celé to ale dohromady opravdu dává smysl.
Some plot twists started extremely good and exciting, but ended ...
Thus, the storxy felt too rushed, it was like the author wanted to end the book as fast as possible (although the German edition has over 600 pages).
With each book we were introduced with new characters and adding to the last new ones - and killing old ones just like that off - did no good.
The bookish version of Geralt's story did not find such a good ending, but we still have the games.3.5 stars for the last book4 stars for the total series
Lady of the Lake (Saga o Wiedźminie #7) by Andrzej Sapkowski is a book of The Witcher but you don't have to have read the series to read this, it can be a stand alone.
The story is about Ciri, The Lady of the Lake, but told, well...it is a challenge to explain, easier to read.
There is so many fantasy creatures and adventures in this book!
This old lady's arms were sore, lol.
No wonder this book has almost 6,000 5 star reviews alone!
Loved this book.
"Algo terminó y algo comenzó, y algo perduró y hubo silencio, silencio y paz."Final agridulce, pero agradezco mucho al autor esa historia extra.Voy a echar mucho de menos seguir leyendo sobre Geralt, Ciri y compañía :(
Serinin son kitabı olan bu ciltte Ciri'nin, Yennefer'ın, Triss'in ve Dandelion'ın serüvenlerinin sonunu okuma fırsatı yakalıyoruz.
Bu kadar az sayfada bu kadar çok şeyi böylesine çeşitli bir şekilde anlatabilmesi takdire şayan doğrusu.Lady Of The Lake önceki kitaplara göre daha az neşeli, daha ciddi bir romandı.
Ek olarak, ta ilk kitaptaki kısa hikayelerden birini bile sonuca bağlayarak inanılmaz bir tatmin ve tamamlanmışlık hissi bıraktı bende.
Sapkowski'ye bir şapka da burada çıkarıyorum.Bazı yerlerin gereksiz uzatıldığını düşünmem haricinde seriye yakışır, tüm açık uçları bağlayan bir sondu.
Umarım bir gün dilimize hakkıyla çevirilir.
(view spoiler)[Battaglie, azione, magia, romanticismo, ironia, lacrime, un destino tragico ed inevitabile che incombe su tutti i personaggi, ed un finale grandioso in stile "Arturiano" che più epico e memorabile non si può. (hide spoiler)] Una delle più belle saghe epic fantasy di tutti i tempi. Dopo la serie di video games che ha ispirato, pare siano in arrivo film e serie TV. Non vedo l'ora.
