https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7748.Fear_and_Loathing_on_the_Campaign_Trail_72

Thompson explains:And how many more of these stinking, double-downer sideshows will we have to go through before we can get ourselves straight enough to put together some kind of national election that will give me and the at least 20 million I tend to agree with a chance to vote FOR something, instead of being faced with that old familiar choice between the lesser of two evils?The political apathy was palpable at the time, as it is today, and much of the American people were hoping that the Democratic Party could produce a candidate powerful enough to stand up to the incumbent Richard Nixon.
Thompson's political epic Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72 is a spiritual sequel to Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.
Thompson continues his scathing and satirical, as well as retrospective, critique of the sixties and early seventies.
No other writer has written so well on those years.Campaign Trail...
is a scathing account of American politics and presidential campaigns.
This is a political book, and Thompson knows his shit.
It's funny, manic, angry, satirical and always entertaining.

Nixon was the beginning of the end of the Golden Age of America, the subversion of the working class
HST is a hell of a writer, not just for his drugs.
Few others make journalism so venomous, and political squabbles so interesting.It's rather fitting that this is the 40th anniversary edition, re-released in one of the most spectacular train wrecks in years.
One wonders, if HST lived, what he would have had to say about this pack of loonies.
HST, as cynical as he wants to be, still has a bit of idealism buried in him somewhere, that a Democrat lesser evil will prevail over the tyranny of Nixon.
Makes you feel rage instead of cynicism.
Forget Primary Colors: A Novel of Politics.
The greatest book on a political campaign of all time is Hunter Thompson's Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail.
Any author can look back at a campaign, but Thompson, despite being drunk or high or hung over for the duration of the election, predicted the future.
He couldn't know that Watergate and its aftermath would set the calendar back one election cycle and four years.
I just wish Thompson were alive to write the definitive book on the 2008 election.
Maybe Alex Pareene or Matt Taibbi will be the new Hunter Thompson.
Looking for one-to-one correspondences doesn’t quite work; someone told me just a couple of weeks ago that he was afraid Sanders was going to be another McGovern, but in that case we would have to cast Clinton as Nixon (which does seem to ring true for some reason)…but it might make more sense to take a quote from Frank Makiewicz, McGovern’s political director, who said, in April 1972: “The worst thing to look like now is a politician; this is a bad year for them.” McGovern, at least during the primaries, was able to capitalize on the perception (a word that Thompson returns to throughout the book), which of course many candidates try to engender, that he wasn’t a traditional politician.
Thompson covers the "truth" behind the 1972 campaign to either reelect the very divisive and seemingly unpopular President Richard Nixon, or elect one of a slew of potential Democratic candidates.
Only Dr. Thompson himself could probably deliver THE definitive truthful account of that election (facts are necessary to hyperbolize and embellish simply to GET to the truth, you know!) and on top of that, also deliver a sheer gonzo masterpiece of journalistic writing that stands up to posterity simply because the TRUTH that Hunter delivers is applicable to ANY time period and nearly ANY presidential campaign since then.
Thompson captures a volatile time in history, both politically and socially.
In his drug and alcohol stupors, Thompson manages to be more honest about the American political process than anyone else.
It is obvious he was on drugs and reading it sober was daunting at times.For anyone into history, specifically political history, this book is a must-read.
I consider this book part of the American canon not for the grace of the writing (it's more like driving on Route 66 these days: daunting and full of pot holes), but as a snapshot in what it was like to live and matter in 1972.
Every year when you go to out the bars on Halloween you see someone dressed up like Johnny Depp’s version of Thompson in the movie “Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.” Green plastic card playing visor.
What does it say about our society that one of the most famous writers of the modern age is a self-described drug-addled lunatic?I tired of the myth of Thompson long ago.
Like Matt Taibbi writes in the introduction to ...Campaign Trial, “nobody was ever more fun to read.” It’s true.
It starts neutrally, a bit of anger and frustration, but as the campaigns take hold, as he finds his hero in McGovern, (the candidate who eventually won the Democratic nomination and went on to be beaten almost to death in the Presidential election), Thompson begins to enjoy the ride.
There is a whole chapter when Thompson puts down the behavior of one of the Democratic candidates to a drug that it is clear that he is experimenting with himself, but on the whole this is a straight book.
I guess the bottom line on this book is that it might as well have been called Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '08, cause shit still sucks.
My mom is completely obsessed with election coverage - "TOTAL COVERAGE", she calls it, in reference of course to Hunter S.
And, if nothing else, FALOTCT '72 certainly shows his raw power and ability to stay on task, not in a marginal way (like his coverage of the motorcycle race in Vegas) but in true newsman fashion, you know, Getting The Story.
Certain passages are more memorable than others, such as the jigsaw puzzle of an interview that pieces together who knew what and when they knew it about the shoot-the-moon maneuver against the Anybody But McGovern movement at the credentials fight or the account of Thompson’s sudden, confident realization of Nixon’s undercurrent concession to the Democratic establishment by sticking with the ultraconservative Agnew.
As a political (and HST) junkie, I knew I had to eventually tackle this famous work.
Nixon, certainly, and the power of incumbency, but the book (and the election of that year’s)focuses on McGovern’s ill-fated campaign and whether it could have worked.
Overall, it was sort of what I expected, but it just goes to concrete everything that made HST great, and it’s a really great campaign book too (not just a “I took a bunch of drugs and followed McGovern around” story.
If I had to rate, I would say four stars for the average reader, but five for politics or HST fans
while this book doesn't carry the same cultural cache as Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, it is a fascinating look into the cesspool that is the political machine.
Thompson's disdain of Richard Nixon is both funny and quaint by today's standards given the current United States president.
if you are into the counterculture, and HST fan, a political junkie, or just want to learn more about the era and zeitgeist of the early 1970s, then check this out.
it is written in the typical Gonzo Style.
just don't expect fear and loathing in Las Vegas.
I think what keeps it so compelling – and ultimately what gives it its tragic tone – is that from the beginning Thompson was routing for McGovern, who eventually became the Democratic candidate - despite all odds - to run against Nixon in his second bid for President of the United States.
Thompson had some great moments of obsessing about a campaign message, trying to decipher exactly what the tactic and target audience was and why they were targeting that particular audience.A few regrets while reading this: 1) not starting it early enough to really parallel the election.
I probably wouldn't recommend it if you're a Republican, but in that case I doubt you're reading HST anyway...This book was originally written as a series of articles in Rolling Stone covering the Presidential campaign from the primaries to the conventions to the actual election, so if you know basically nothing of the election (like I did, not having been born yet!), it's pretty interesting to see how the whole thing developed.
How does one classify a book which is ostensibly a journalistic account of the 1972 presidential campaign but is actually more about its author, both essayist about (Thompson is loose, very loose, with the facts) and participant in the events he describes?
With misgivings, I classify this as autobiography--albeit, again, loose, very loose, with the facts.This is not Thompson's best book.
If you have interest in him as a person you might find Campaign exceptional in that in it, despite himself, his actual character is fleetingly revealed: he actually seemed to care for McGovern and what he stood for.
There are a few books-- very few-- I read that, after I've finished and if they've left an impression on me, I track down and purchase an original 1st edition printing of it to put up on my shelf (perhaps my daughter will read them one day and have a better understanding of who I am; maybe I just like to collect beautiful things).
This is one of those books.
This is a must have for anyone interested in politics, writing, history, journalism, Hunter Thompson or the art of the snark, archived 1st edition or not.
thompson, you glorious fucker.
I mean, what else was there to do in the 70s?But, back to the book: basically Thompson hit the campaign trail and followed South Dakota Senator George McGovern through the long, arduous slog of the Democratic Primaries through the convention in Miami and all the way to an epic beatdown at the hands of Richard Nixon- who was re-elected and then promptly impaled himself on the Watergate Scandal two years later.
Looking at the bulk of Thompson's analysis, it seems that McGovern ran initially as an anti-establishment politician a sort of anti-politician Washington outsider who gained a lot of strength in the early primaries because people brought into the notion that he could actually affect real change in the country.
It is a difficult syndrome for most people to understand, because few of us ever come close to the kind of Ultimate Power and Achievement that the White House represents to a career politician...The presidency is as far as he can go.
Thompson captures it all and at times, embodies it all, as he becomes a kind of anti-hero, both disgusted and ammused, both pushing away from and pulling himself towards the mad machine that is American Politics.I found it hard to keep myself engaged towards the middle of the book.
Stapled together out of a year of Rolling Stone columns, Thompson covers the '72 Nixon-McGovern campaign in his own inimitable style: a mix of drug fantasy experiences, rumor, straight-shooting opinion, and (verbatim?) transcripts of tape recordings with senior people.Thompson picked Senator McGovern as his man early, the last decent man in Congress, a staunch opponent of the ongoing atrocity in Vietnam, and the catalyst of a new Youth Movement-centered democratic party to finally sink the crusty and corrupt bosses in Big Labor, ethnic machines, and imperialist warmongering before going on to crush a weak President Nixon.
Thompson makes fools of major Democratic politicians, giving his press pass to a yippie who ruthlessly mocks Muskie in Florida, and the hated President, he sneaks into a Nixon Youth rally, but the real heart of the book lies in crushing disappointment of the eventual electoral result.The book has staying power for two reasons other than the quality of the political coverage: the anger and the despair.
His desire for a clearing political brushfire still resonates today, as the creaky two-party system continues to sadly bulldoze any thoughts of fundamental change.The flipside is the personal sadness that Thompson feels once it is clear how badly McGovern is losing and what that says about the American electorate.
That America must acceptLike the historical republics corruption and empireHas been known for years.Be angry at the sun for settingIf these things anger you.-Robinson JeffersReading Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72 during the 2016 primary season really drives home the point that the cynical view of politics is in fact the most accurate.
The inner workings and machinations of a well-run campaign have so little to do with what the average person would consider "politics".
Anything can happen, and if history is any guide, it's likely that the American people will choose the more despicable person for their highest office.
And since we're in an election year, I decided I'd punish myself with the sad and frustrating story of McGovern alongside the media bombardment of Obama-Romney coverage.
I'm a glutton for punishment.What makes this book excellent is how intimate it is despite taking on a subject as massive in scale as American politics.
I don't just mean the new-journalism subjectivity for which Thompson is famous, either.
This text is as much a story of the self-loathing of being a writer as it is a book about an election.
I think this is an important book to read right now.
Bernie Sanders is a lot like George McGovern, and those of us who support these "new politics" candidates would do well to learn from the strengths and weaknesses of long-shot campaigns past.
Some of those things a candidate has control over, and they are the opposite of the conventional wisdom that one has to move right in a general election.
But either way, grappling with the McGovern campaign is something all serious American leftists should be doing right now, and this book is a great help in that task.
Thompson's career that hasn't been said, and lord knows he doesn't need more fans (I do!), but this is such a great unfrogettable instructional book on politics at a certain time in a certain place, that it's hard to ignore, and may be his crowning achievement as a writer.
Thomspson is both observer and actor in this book, an amphibious character, and he immerses just enough in the campaign to wrap his head around America, while staying enough inside of himself to be a great writer, observing himself.
Campaign Trail '72 is the epitome of the gonzo journalism experience.
The author has just the right amount of straight journalism and personal experience which of course includes some of his own outrageous reactions and opinions.
We now know that the Democrat Party really did sabotage the McGovern campaign and were fine with four years of Nixon rather then allow a visionary that might rock their boat into the White House.
I know because I'm the one who started them".) And I was never quite sure if Thompson really did interview McGovern while he was using the urinal.
