https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/852468.Christ_in_Concrete
Sinclair's book---one of my all-time favorites---begins brilliantly with an Old Country wedding, and that seemingly natural way of life is contrasted with the ostensibly richer hopes of the New World, which becomes an unremitting stinking hellhole of merciless misery and injustice.
What's gloomy in Sinclair is more like yearning in di Donato.Things become grim in this book, and yet the optimism of these people, these Italian immigrants is always to the fore.
Its passions are not contained, yet it never feels sappy or sentimental.
This book was written in 1939 (same year The Grapes of Wrath by Steinbeck came out) and was hailed as an accurate depiction of Italian immigrants experience trying to survive the harsh environment in the lower side of Manhattan during the Great Depression era.Due to its rich religious imagery and the characters directly talking to God, reading this book is a good way to spend your Holy Week.
For example, even job (yes, your job that gives you your salary) is referred by his people her as Job (first letter is capitalized) and I thought that Di Donato was referring to the prophet who lost his fortune and his whole family and had boils all over his body as God's way to test his faith.
Why don't more people know about this book? An immigrant and second generation Italian-American tale written in 1939, also very much about class and exploitation--so much so that the movie version of it was banned in the US.
I know I'm getting redundant, but this is another favorite urban narrative with a focus on the struggles of the italian immigrant community in New York in the early 20th century.
"Christ in Concrete" is both paean and prayer to the old immigrant Italian industrial worker.
They are "Christ in Concrete," dependent on work that literally kills them.
Merely an adept portrayal of the construction worker's life in the great Gotham of skyscrapers and cold bitter bluster.
Di Donato, a bricklayer by trade, mined prosaic music from the mundane task:"He reached the trowel down into the mortar.
He dropped it back into the tub and worked the trowel back and forth in the mortar just as he had seen the bricklayers do.
Di Donato wrote the heck out of this story.
I have not read a more devastating first chapter. I'll never look at an old building again without thinking of what the true human cost was of building America's great cities.
Christ in Concrete  presents the often harrowing story of an Italian immigrant family in New York City in the 1920s. 12 year old Paul is forced into construction work to support his mother and 7 younger siblings after the death of his father Geremio in the collapse of a shoddily constructed building. The book alternates passages of Faulknerian stream-of-consciousness – the narrative often becomes expressionistically inarticulate in scenes where the characters experience extreme stress - with se
The last section of the novel takes place in the early years of the Great Depression, but even this society shattering event is overshadowed by the personal relationships of the characters and the crisis of faith Paul undergoes, symbolically presented over several pages in a dream vision which serves as the novel’s climax and which, like most such efforts, I found heavy-handed and unsatisfying.The first chapter describes Geremio’s last days of life and ends with his death on Good Friday, which, especially given the book’s title, struck me as overly heavy-handed symbolism.
Di Donato’s deeply empathetic portrait of the Italian immigrant laborers is both humanizing and glorifying: like Paul, the reader comes to see these men as martyrs, whose gruesome deaths on the scaffolding of the the new cathedrals of the pagan god Capitalism are preserved in concrete like the saints who adorn the stone parapets of medieval cathedrals -- monuments in stone that were created, not coincidentally, by the guilds of Old World working-class stonemasons, carpenters, and metallurgists who were the forefathers (perhaps even literally) of these Italian immigrants.
It's astounding how under the radar this book is considering how mind-blowingly good it is. The first chapter includes the best description of a building under construction collapsing and crushing people that I've ever read. And it's really beautifully written.
Beautiful, absolutely beautiful story. Beautiful style. It was like reading poetry.
Another essential for Italian American readers, studies, research, etc. Absolutely fantastic.
The wellspring of this is the working-class Italian cultural origins of the author and his family.
The minutiae of passion both amongst the men, women and children is as detailed as the descriptions of the technique of the artisanry.
The inevitable comparisons would be to socially-conscious writers of the time, such as Lillian Hellman or John Steinbeck, but there is little bending, posturing or allegorical ornamentation to make a point.
If it isn’t the only one, even if it is, this guy, in my opinion, is one of the greatest novelists unjustly forgotten.
noise O noise O noise and sounds swelling in from the sea of city life without of pushing scurrying purring motors and horns and bells and cries and sirens and whistles and padded stream of real feet O noise O noise - O noi-se and through Job mouths stretch wide screaming:I want brick!I want tile!I want the scaffolder!I want mortar!I want speed I want rush I want haste I want noise I want actionI want you all of you to throw yourselves into Job!With the midday sun the close stairwell became a hotbox, and Paul stripped off his shirt.
Later, Nicky told Paul that the carpenter was greasing the wheel at the top of the hoist when the cable suddenly ran and caught his hand against the wheel rubbing off his fingers.'Don't let that bother you, kid,' said Nicky.O my Jesus, guard me.
This novel is the puffed-up version of a story, first published in Esquire magazine, which went on to be named "Best short story of 1938".
As long as the author deals with his father's lethal accident on a construction job and his own decision to step in as the bread-winner for his mother and 7 siblings, the writing is strong and vibrant.
A kind uncle does his best to help but loses a leg.
When Paul's self-appointed god-father eventually dies in yet another accident caused by the greed of the bosses, Paul loses his faith and falls out with his mother, who promptly takes to her bed and dies.
Here is a book about what it was like to be an immigrant, in this case Italian, in the early 20th century. No whiners here. I found myself asking, Is it really worth leaving your home to endure such hardship and longing for a “better” life when what you had may have actually been the better thing? The writing is exceptional, experimental, and di Donato manages to capture the pathos, the culture, and the heartache of the immigrant experience—where family and community were all you had—and it was almost enough. And faith both sustained and fell short. Highly recommend.
Beautiful,magical, almost lyrical at types, story of an Italian-American family in NYC during the Depression. Really funny pasta-eating scene. Lots of suffering, poverty, family struggle, etc. Lots of "cursing," but would be great to have them in Italian!
Brutal, visceral, sensual. This book is thick with atmosphere and heavy with the pressure of Italian-american life just before the depression. Love the linguistic attentions and gritty realness. It is so lush with detail yet careful not to be so hyperbolic that it is not believable.
A forgotten classic. DiDonato really captures the soul of the Italian immigrant and gives a realistic view of tenement life. A truly worthy read!
Couldnt finish it
A powerful work, portraying in agonizingly reality the experience of recent immigrants, in this case Italians in America as they struggle to find their way, scratch out a living, sweat, suffer and die in the merciless construction industry of the 1920s.
A boy of twelve, after the death of his father in a construction accident, sees no alternative but to quit school and seek employment as a bricklayer to support his widowed mother and six younger siblings.The construction site -- the "Job" -- is portrayed in brutally realistic prose of the highest order, reminiscent of the poems of Carl Sandburg.
It is wonderful to see in written form the life they led, what they went through, assimilation, toil, racism, passion It is very heavy on the Catholicism.
And very dramatic.
Italians are very into Catholicism, such as myself.
An Italian without Catholicism is almost unheard of.
Also, we tend to be dramatic and a bit melancholy.
Our thoughts and passions run deep and that is obvious in this book.It is hard to read because Pietro Di Donato tries to either translate Italian what he means directly into English, which doesnt quite work with idiomatic expressions.
Or he tries to make the characters in the book speak a broken English.
Christ in Concrete is the poignant tale of a labor class youth's attempt to sustain himself and his family in the early-mid nineteenth century streets of Downtown Manhattan, New York City.
As Paul endures the toiling labor in bricklaying and weeps at the hands that denied him the most basic of needs in the most perilous hours, it seems clear that he represents the tragic nature of humanity: man is constantly waging a war against himself.
The difference in class between the two drives them against each other even though they are both human.
This is a very sobering account of Italian immigrant construction workers in the the Lower East Side of New York City, taking place just before the Depression.
Di Donato's novel is largely autobiographical, based on his own experiences growing up as the oldest son of an immigrant family, who, at age 12, must make ends meet after the untimely death of his father.
It is a small, yet powerful book, and though it is about the Italian immigrant culture, it is also about the working class in general, and the trials and tribulations of those who labored in construction during the early part of the twentieth century.
I finished this book too early in the morning to think about a review, which I am lousy at anyways.
So, agreeing with just about everyone else that gave it 4 or 5 stars, the only other thing I can add is the word choice and word order that di Donato uses.
I have never read a book written this way and at first found it a little disconcerting - but not for long.
This wonderful book has given me some insight into his life, although I know it wasn't as difficult as Geremio's.
There is a sequel, "Three Circles of Light", need to find it and read it also.
A novel about the difficulty of Italian immigrants getting by during the Depression. Studs Terkel likens it to Grapes of Wrath.The style created a barrier for me. I imagine the intent was to remind us that the characters were speaking Italian and also to convey the confusions of the workplace and family gatherings. It was sort of stream-of-consciousness, but hard to tell in whose consciousness. I could not get used to the personification of Job.Bad things, unfair things, happened to the family. They survived.
Who knew 1930s literature about developing NYC could be so gory?
The scene with the building collapse and the...
jaw stripping down to bone and other grisly details, will stay with me for a long time.
It's a great book to read while living in New York, where you can easily look around and imagine the buildings that Pietro Di Donato and the other bricklayers may have built.
The book jumps around a lot and seems to leave some loose ends, but I definitely recommend it for people looking for a unique perspective on New York in the early 20th century.
It's a good classic story with some very powerful and beautifully written lines. There are also many parts where it gets confusing. It was once said the best way to do flashbacks is.......don't. I feel the same rule applies to mental breakdowns and dream sequences. Both of these occurred in the book and became so convoluted, I just started skimming until they were over. Though I won't tell you the ending, I can say it didn't bring about any resolution. All in all, parts of the story were very powerful, but it could have been better.
affecting and depressing, this novel derived from the author's autobiographical short story, offers a deeper look into the lives of Itallian immigrants and the hardships they faced. Framed by death and trajedy, the novel does offer glimpses of hope. Make no mistake though, this novel isn't trying to play nice and it goes in for the kill several times with unexpected imagery and frightening details.
Great book about human tragedy. The language varies a lot to be realistic about actual dialogues, and it adds colors and nuances. You really feel part of it. The subject is more actual than ever, about immigration, immigrants conditions, dreams, hopes and desperation. Different country, different immigrants but same sorrow.
When I read that this book bested Grapes of Wrath in both reviews and sales (they came out the same year), I thought I needed to see what it was all about. So I tracked down an old copy at a used bookstore and dug in. Having now read it, I don't see what all the fuss was about. I'll take Tom Joad and his ill fated journey.
