https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32129.Spiritual_Midwifery
This book is groundbreaking in its own right but it ended up being more of a biographical and historical account then my personal how-to guide.This book was autobiographical on how "The Farm" came to be, how and why Ina May ended up in a midwifery role, and the things she and her midwifery partners learned along the way.
Just know god is mentioned often in the book whether that's a pro or a con for you.It's an interesting read but I enjoyed Ina May's other book and Penny Simkin's "The Birth Partner" book more.
"Why," you surely ask, "is a man reviewing Spiritual Midwifery?"Frankly put, I delivered two of my children at home.
It's not a real how-to, nuts and bolts guide to home delivery, though it does explain in great (and graphic, not for young children) detail the mechanics of it all.
The most intriguing aspect of the book, however, are the vignettes recounting the stories of various pregnancies on The Farm.
From a multitude of viewpoints, life and the giving of life on The Farm is dissected and observed, examined and appreciated by those who lived it.
And just like living at the farm, this book isn't for everyone, but it's definitely worth considering.
This book changed my life.
I had no idea what I wanted to do with my life.
I was lost, I was tired of trying to find direction.
One day at the health food store I wandered to the book section and I was drawn to the cover of this book...
Although I applaud "lay-midwives" or "direct-entry midwives" for the services they provide to people, I believe the route I'm taking will allow me to serve a greater number of people and expose them to high quality holistic health care that they may not get from your run-of-the-mill obgyn doc.

Laura found this first edition (1975) at the flea market next door.
It's the first hand account - told by the mothers and fathers and midwives - of about 200 of the 372 births (thus far) on a giant culty hippie baby making farm in Tennessee.
It was right up in my thing, because I always tended to be a little lazy about spending my energy.
This book was definitely stoned ("charged with spiritual energy").
I never would have thought - when we saw this dusty old thing forgotten in a flea market booth - that more than 200 copies had ever gotten out or been read.
There's greater romance than I'm telling here, because the book tells the story also of how this collective of midwives grew from Ina May to a raft of 'disciples' who lived in housebuses in a large community together and served the greater community.The strongest thing I took from this reading, is that I don't have to be an angry birthing mother-to-be.
As Ina May says "What put the baby in there, can bring the baby out." So, being loving and even 'smoochy' with your partner (I personally didn't quite make it to the smoochy stage in my 8 hours of birthing) can aid the process.
O MY GOSH you have to read this book if you are going to or have given birth at home or just want to have a wide awake natural childbirth!!! It left me with the confident knowledge that I wasn't the first, I won't be the last, and birth first and foremost belongs to women, not doctors.
I read this book before the home births of each of my three children. Yes, it's hokey. Yes, it's dated. There's a lot of long hair, beards and wire-rimmed glasses. BUT the pictures and birth stories are worth it. When I was looking for information on healthy, involved births, Ina May Gaskin provided a variety of experiences in this book. I did find the lack of racial/ethnic diversity to be a turn off, but oh, well. If you're looking for open, positive, and detailed stories about births, this is a great book to have.
I was able to get past the sort of hippie-go-lucky language and tone of the book to the meat of it--namely, that childbirth is a wonderful natural process that can go much better for the mother when she is surrounded by supportive individuals who are acting on her behalf and the baby's in a personal way rather than in a institutional, impersonal, intervention focused hospital.
I guess I have to start by saying two things: 1) This book changed my life.2) I think every single woman should read this book.Although the central theme of the book is midwifery, in essence, it's just this really, really amazing book that makes you feel incredible and powerful about being a woman.
(Update 3/2014: Today I wouldn't necessarily finger quote the word feminism the way that I've done here, but I stand by my basic meaning) We need to learn to rejoice in our bodies and our femininity and to claim our power as women...
Don't be turned off by the outdated language and fashion in this book. It has the potential to change your whole outlook on birth and pregnancy. Even just reading the first half, which is all birthing stories, is very inspiring. There is also information for parents and midwives. I would highly recommend this book to current or future parents, midwives, or those who want to be supportive of a friend or family member's birthing.
Loved the birth stories even though sometimes the hippie-ness of it is a little off putting.
My biggest complaints are that:The author herself seems to be very particular about what she wants from clients and seems to put a lot of the burden on the laboring woman to "be nice," and I don't believe that that's necessarily the energy that works for everyoneThe Farm as the epitome of a great environment but the percentage of women who are actually going to birth there is negligible so why not talk a little more about some other great birthing environments or ways to make a birthing environment great.She makes a lot of pronouncements such as: We have a very low incidence of post partum depression here on the Farm.
The making out while in labor stuff both interested me and grossed me out depending on the story, but it also made me feel like I'll never learn how to relax my mouth properly because my husband and I won't be kissing much less touching while I am in labor.
Aside from all that I enjoyed reading it for the most part and learned some things.
It did take me a long time to get through, because I kept picking up other, more interesting things to read.
Ina May's desire to change the way we think about birth is admirable.That said, this book was not useful to me when I was pregnant, nor did it help prepare me for birth.
In my son's birth, medical intervention was necessary, but Ina May implies that when this happens, it is the parent's fault for not letting go of their fear (I forget which birth story, but there is a particular one where she comments after the parents's narrative that their fear was what caused some difficulty--condescending much?).
This is the greatest book...in it I found a lot of the inspiration I needed to be able to birth at home.
Ina May Gaskin is one of the greatest midwives of our time, I do believe.
The talk is real hippie as the women tell their birth stories in the beginning of the book, and I love the spirit of the community and women as they gather together to support each other during birth.
The black and white photographs are beautiful and lend such a depth to the stories.
Love this book...
a photo of a wise older man in a white coat and stethoscope punctuating a story about God helping out midwives) to curses when one mother says that she, her husband, and Ina May "prayed" over a blue, motionless baby while someone ran to get Ina May's husband, who did some goddamned CPR to finally start saving that kid's brain function.My midwife recommended I read this to prepare for my second birth, citing positive birth stories.
Even if that was really her experience (sure it was), no amount of spiritual midwifery could make it mine.I do appreciate that Ina May Gaskin has helped improve the way childbirth can happen in America.
This is the second time that I've read through Spiritual Midwifery, and I enjoyed it just as much this time around.
The birth stories are incredibly touching, even to someone who doesn't have children and has no intention of getting pregnant any time soon.
There is a certain hippy-dippiness to this book that is to be expected, and the language can be hilariously dated and a little off-putting at times, for example everyone seems to be getting high together off of experiences and having telepathic moments with one another.
Her words are well-worth reading, and the stories captured in this book are touching and teaching in turn.
I cannot get past this this portion of the book, which unfortunately is in the beginning:“We were a transient population with no desire to leave a trail of debts behind us, and we had an ethic that did not allow us to accept welfare.
This material may be protected by copyright.--It changes my perspective of the book.It suggests a privilege while simultaneously passing judgement on those that may need to (for whatever reason) seek assistance at one point or another in their life.
However, it seems any variation from this way of "life" ,"birth", however you want to brand it, isn't preferred.
Well, I'm glad out of all Ina May Gaskin's books I saved this one for last.
This book is highly referenced.
It is...I think the best way to describe it is this a book of birth stories written by hippies.
Far out, high, tripping, psychedelic hippies.
Their stories are interesting and empowering.
Their stories are also poorly written and contain a lot of words like "High" and "telepathic" and "Puss".
I never could figure out what they meant by "high." Happy?
I'm glad I saved it for last.
Read Ina May's Guide to Childbirth first.
The backbone of the modern-day midwifery revival, Spiritual Midwifery's greatest strength is in portraying life on The Farm and the practical motivation for learning the ancient practice.
The book is peppered with personal anecdotes and birth stories, which range from the really far-out to lovely descriptions of souls entering the world.
For those of us who have yet to undergo such an experience, there were a few stories that revealed TOO much of the process (where is the mystery, man?).
I mainly enjoyed the historically relevant language, which was really groovy and inspired me to throw the Grateful Dead album onto the turntable.
My favorite childbirth book ever.
Yes, it is a 70's hippy book but truth is truth from generation to generation.
I love the hippy pics.
But even if you don't, this book is packed with so much information, your mind will be on overload.
Practical advice, sane advice, safe advice, loving advice.
Information, explanations, personal stories, diagrams, illustrations, this book has it all!
A real book about real women, real babies, and real births.
This book will change how you think about pregnancy and birth.
This should be required reading for every pregnant woman in the world.
Best birth book ever!
The book has an atmosphere of acceptance and love and it really comforts a person facing the unknown.
If you have any fear about your ability to labor and birth, I highly suggest you read this followed by her newer guide to childbirth, then Birthing From Within by Pam England.
There is a technical aspect too in the section for midwifes, but it is universal reading material worth your while as a new mom embarking on a very spiritual journey.
I had a personal connection to The Farm community at which these birth stories occur.

This book started me on my journey toward natural childbirth and other incarnations of hippiness. I found an old copy at the LSU book bazaar one year. At the time, I was not at all interested in having a child(I was young and unattached), but the pictures and stories in this book captivated me. I read it cover to cover and vowed to have a natural birth if ever presented with the choice. When I got pregnant later, I came back to it for inspiration and education. What a long, strange trip it's been...
It's certainly not the most original thing to say, but I was profoundly changed by Spiritual Midwifery's early edition (created in the 1970s). The latest edition is so significantly different as to count as a separate book, in my mind. Both editions are vital to independent birth knowledge/learning.
I think that Ina's husband pushes it with the comments about babies and sexuality. Not everything sensual is sexual. For the rest it was a good and empowering book...particularly for people facing a natural breech birth. Fun 70's language too.
Excellent book. This was Ina May Gaskin's first book, and is full of a lot of great antecdotes. I actually read it after reading her Breastfeeding and Childbirth books, but I know a lot of people go on from her to read those. Either way, highly recommended.
My favorite book on pregnancy. I used it each time I was pregnant and it really did help tremendously. It really helped to make the whole experience more spiritual and meaningful and enjoyable. Wonderful pictures as well.
Honestly, I dig it. All the trippy flowery illustrations, pictures of long-haired women in labor, stories about "rushing" and transcending and being telepathic, etc. I'm just done reading birth stories right now. The end!
A trippy hippy book about Ina May and her adventures at "The Farm" including homebirth midwifery and the works. It is an honest, graphic book (well, it's natural birth, what do you expect?). Insightful, educational, beautifully written.
