https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1249931.Strange_Meeting
--Strange MeetingAfterword
Isn’t the only real purpose of our being here to teach them that lesson – how bloody useless and pointless the whole thing is?’ ‘Men are naturally stupid and they do not learn from experience.’This is but one of the conversations between the two main characters - John Hilliard and David Barton.
One of the things I hear/read from men who have participated in war and/or any military experience is that they are able to form close relationships despite (or because of?) the stresses inflicted upon them.
In this way, it is different from other WWI novels I have read.While reading, I came to finally recognize one of the primary differences between most WWI literature and WWII literature.
While in many ways a subtle novel, missing a lot of the overblown, overwrought "movie-moments" found in other war novels, it seamlessly captures the agony and ugliness of a war that devoured a whole generation of young men.
The beauty of the book is instead found in the rare, meaningful friendship that forms between two young soldiers in one tiny corner of the war.
Like this novel, it's simpler and more restrained than a lot of the famous war poems, and like this novel, I find it to be incredibly moving and true:Here dead we lie Because we did not choose To live and shame the land From which we sprung.
A deeply moving, and beautifully written story set during World War 1.
This sad and haunting tale of the deep friendship which evolves between two officers serving in the 
In this case, 'Strange Meeting' is an account of the relationship between two officers over a relatively short period in training camps and trenches.
I remember how pale his eyelashes were and I thought of how alive he’d been, how much there had been going on inside him - blood pumping round, muscles working, brain saying do this, do that, his eyes looking at me.
I just wanted to stay there and look at him, I couldn’t take it in, that he’d been so alive, and then he just lay, spouting out blood and that was that, he was dead, nothing."Of course, the especial pain of reading WWI novels is that they never end happily and this one is no exception.
WWI officer John Hilliard returns to France after spending several months in England recovering from a serious wound.
He tries to isolate himself emotionally to avoid breaking down, but is brought out of his shell by David Barton, a friendly, warm-hearted officer who has not yet seen combat.
The relationship between John and David, which is in a gray area between friendship and romantic love, is portrayed sensitively and develops believably despite their very different personalities.
Set in the First World War. Beautifully written, it almost reads like a poem, if not exactly Wilfred Owen's poem of the same title. Trench horror contrasts with the unreality of life in Blighty experienced by one of the characters in the novel, home on leave; so unreal he can't wait to get back to France.The' strange meeting' is that between two officers, John and David (David and Jonathan?) and the resulting bond between them. One of them writes as a poet might – Owen??It brought the war, its horrors and ironies, home to me in an unforgettable way.
A blurb on the cover of All Quiet on the Western Front calls it "The greatest war novel ever written." Susan Hill's  Strange Meeting makes for the perfect companion novel.
The first is the beautiful, opposites-attract relationship that develops between Hilliard and Barton.
Hilliard receives the perfect Harrods gift baskets from his family, while Barton only receives letters overflowing with warmth and sense of family.
Barton initially plays the role of uplifter, but as the experiences of the war gradually take their toll, it is Hilliard whose emotional intelligence has developed enough for him to take on that job in the friendship.
It reflects the hopes of the army ahead of life in the trenches and the feelings of a just war.
It speaks also of how the war is viewed on the home front and the disconnect of the soldiers on leave.The discription of the futility of war, the randomness of death and the sense of wasted life.It is a moving novel and worth reading to get a feel of this conflict and the impact it had on all combatants.However, I wasn't fully engrossed and involved as much as other novels about this period and life on the western front.
I think maybe by the end of the year I'll be changing my rating to 5 stars.WWI as a literary setting is powerfully attractive to many people, as Hill says in her Afterword, and I am no exception.
I have yet to read 'just another First World War' book and this is another 'not just another First World War novel'I liked where the story started - a new beginning for John Hilliard in a way, but not *the* beginning of his war.
I have attempted this book twice and I can’t get anything from it. For me it’s dull, predictable, boring, badly written and has some small errors. A shame because I love her ghost story books.

I read this book in a day. It was dull and predictable and not as fantastic as everyone claims. I did not enjoy it at all.
John Hilliard is an officer in the British army recently fighting in the trenches of northern France against the Germans in the horror of the First World War. Taking stock of his life in England, John knows his life has been forever changed by the scars of war, he makes his farewells to his distant family and returns to his battalion in France, never knowing if this is the final time he’ll see England.On returning to France John meets a new officer David Barton, who he shares a billet with.
I first read parts of this when I was in school and obsessed with Wilfred Owen but didn't finish it as I really couldn't 'get into it' (I was about 15) although I did read endless other works on WW1 as I continued through university, which were, overall, better than this.
Having read a lot of Hill's other works, this is clearly an early piece and is a novelist finding her way through the 'literary' field.
A very descriptive read, rather than a story. Two men meet in the war, one already been to the front line, the other hasn't. This is about their friendship whilst under a great amount of stress.
A remarkable, and profoundly moving, novel.
The bond between the two men soon deepens into an ambiguous love - one which Hilliard cannot articulate even to himself - and one which is perpetually in threat of being destroyed through separation in death, with the prospect of being killed in battle ever present.Thoughts:What resonated with me most throughout my reading of Strange Meeting was the stillness to the narrative, imbuing the novel with a sense of poignancy - the futility of war when looked at against the backdrop of senseless death.
Hilliard, for all his experience and wisdom provides the grounding and guidance Barton will need.Strange Meeting never makes the relationship explicit - to either Hilliard and Barton or the reader.
It’s hardly more than a novella, really, but packs a beautiful punch.I admit I was put off a little when I first cracked the book open and started to read, because it is clearly aiming at the literary market–nothing wrong with that, but sometimes I just want a story, not flashbacking back and forth and endless descriptions of the smell of roses and the look of the mist.
Hilliard’s own family write sparingly, and send hampers from Fortnums and Masons, with ridiculous treats like candied figs and caviar.The author says in her author’s note at the end of the book that she is constantly asked if Hilliard and Barton’s relationship was homosexual and was it consummated, and really, I don’t think it matters in this novel.
I'd love to know the story behind this choice, because it instantly sets one's mind working - his childhood, war experience and love life are well documented, and I can see both similarities and differences to Hilliard.
Maybe the fault is with me for being impatient to get to the heart of the story: the relationship between John Hilliard and David Barton.
Hilliard has a strong sense of foreboding that he won't like Barton!Of course they go on to become close in a way that is unusual to both men.
The way Susan Hill writes their relationship is perfect, imo.
Where Hill finds grace is that Hilliard and Barton acknowledge mutual love and the reader knows that it is real, that there is absolutely no doubt the two characters love each other but not exactly as two lovebirds would love each other in any romantic story.
The end comes swiftly; of course, it's a WWI novel so there is only bittersweet awaiting in the end but like all great love stories, there's a sense of melancholy and tragedy and that's what makes it so beautiful, so touching.
Strange Meeting does not disappoint in any of these aspects.John Hilliard comes back from a temporary leave after getting wounded to find that all the men he knew are either dead or changed.
Then he meets David Barton, a charismatic, happy young man who tells John stories of his family and home life.
I had prepared myself for a sad ending, and while I was not disappointed I knew that there was a reason behind it, and I love this short little novel all the more for it.
Ending it with John coming to David's house and feeling as though it's his home was beautiful and almost poetic.
I started this book last year, and put it down just after the swimming-with-Beth memory, for reasons I'm not quite sure of.
Strange Meeting stands in remarkable contrast to Birdsong, which is the only other First World War novel I've read set at the front, in that the ratio of description to dialogue is reversed completely.
It reminds me in structure far more of Regeneration, with its emphasis on human relationships, reflected through the fact that the majority of both books is conversation, rather than on the graphic horror of the Front.
Both Strange Meeting and Regeneration are very sparse in description, whereas Birdsong is far more drawn out.
It is written with Susan Hill's usual precision and directness, painting vivid and unforgettable pictures of people and events.What makes this truly exceptional, though, is its subtle and penetrating study of character.
Their contrasting relationships with their families are very believable, too, and every minor character is utterly convincing.
It is a book which has important things to say about all of these people and their relationships, and of the redemptive power of simple human kindness and love.
I found it very haunting and deeply moving.In short, this is a very fine novel which conveys far more in its brief 180 pages than many books of twice the length and more have done.
Several years ago, I read a book by David Malouf, Fly Away Peter, which was also about World War I.
I knew when I started this that no happy literature comes out of war, but I had forgotten how much I could dread the story ahead of me.
It was worth the dread, though.Susan Hill has written an excellent book about war.
Even better was her way of giving us John's and David's friendship without telling every detail.This, like Fly Away Peter, is a slight book in pages, but not in impact.
It is hard to believe that people can write books like this, we read them and we still engage in war.
Short but hauntingly captivating and deeply moving, Strange Meeting is set in the trenches of the First World War and tells of the deep love and friendship developing between two officers at the front amidst the horrors of the battlefield. The writing is as beautiful as the emotions portrayed, making this a wonderful little gem among novels set in the period.
There is much to admire in this careful, measured and unsensational study of a young male friendship in the midst of a war. However, much as I admired the work, I felt that it was hard to like; my reaction was cold and rational and perhaps it should have been more moving. Sad to say, but perhaps a little dull.
I read this for my English Literature AS Course. It was tedious, non descriptive and unbelievable. The ending managed to be both brutal & disappointing. the book reached its climax very early on and then fizzled out.
I read this book in one day. It is so very moving. Beautifully written. The characters are fictional but the thought of what that whole generation of young men went through during the Great War is almost unbearable. I had to take myself off for a quiet cry at the end of it.
