https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141191.The_Eight_Strokes_of_the_Clock
За всички почитател(к)и на красивия крадец – джентълмен Арсен Люпен настоящият сборник ще донесе много охкания, ахкания и вероятно в някои случаи леки припадъци за микросекунда, щото сме съвременни кифли, що, тъй като в този малък роман в разкази френският Дон Жуан с бързи пръсти се изживява като елегантен еквивалент на Бенедикт Къмбърбач, и за сърцето на една леко вятърничава и общо взето неотличаваща се с нищо, освен с грация и финес, идващи от местната кръвна банка, дама е готов дори да защитава закона.
Ортанз Даниел е готова на безумен ход, да избяга с човек, който е увлечен по нея, но към който тя не изпитва нищо, когато в живота ѝ нахлува Принц Серж Ренин, поредното превъплъщение на крадецът-джентълмен.
Покрай това освобождава Ортанз от домашния ѝ арест, връща ѝ наследството, което ѝ се полага и успява да я придума, да участва с него в разплитането на още седем авантюри, за да станат толкова, колкото са били ударите на часовника.Хронологично „Осемте удара на часовника” е след „Зъбите на тигъра” и преди „Графиня ДьоКалиостро”.
Тук не са просто осем случая както в „Агенция „Барнет и сие”, а са осем разследвания обединени от Ортанз и любовта на принц Ренин към нея.
Com uma inteligência acima da média, possui o dom nato de solucionar pequenos mistérios que, para ele, são “óbvios e triviais”.
O livro envolve dois personagens principais: Hortense Daniel, uma plebeia que iria casar a desgosto com um pedante conde Francês e o príncipe Rénine, que é a própria personificação de Arsène Lupin.
Dividido em oito capítulos, cada qual com um mistério, o príncipe, ao salvar Hortense de um infeliz casamento, prometeu devolver-lhe uma presilha de corpete furtada de há anos.
Caso ele consiga solucionar este último mistério até a oitava pancada do relógio, e um ano após sua primeira aventura juntos, ela concederá a sua mão em casamento.
Un Lupin plaisant et enlevé, mais complètement tiré par les cheveux. Souvent les histoires sont incroyables (littéralement) mais avec le format long, on plonge dans des relations passionnantes entre les personnages et on se laisse emporter. Ici les nouvelles ne laissent pas le temps de se laisser emporter et on reste incrédules. Malgré tout, cela se lit vite et reste divertissant et bien écrit
The title doesn't give any impression of the book's content. It's 8 stories where Prince Renine (Lupin) solves mysteries and fixes problems. Not what you expect from a thief. It was a fun reading seeing how he reveals those crimes. A recommendation for those who love detective stories.
recueil de nouvelles d'Arsène Lupin où sous l'identité du Prince Sernine il résout diverses enquêtes.
Very good for Sherlock Holmes fans.
I liked how it wasn't a endless book full of mysteries and how Renine could solve them quickly and efficiently.
Although he could have gone on and seen the ending of some of the peoples' stories, he stopped when he wanted to and engaged in new adventures as they came.
At one point Hortense wanted to take a break, but Renine just ignored her and then right after they solved the mystery before, a new mystery piqued his interest.
I recommend it if you like mysteries.
The French Sherlock Holmes
Prince Renine (AKA Arsene Lupin) is an amateur detective who teams up with a lady named Hortense Daniel.
While exploring an old tower, they discover a clock that strikes eight after Renine removes a telescope from inside it.
So Renine asks Hortense to assist him in eight adventures, ranging from a stolen piece of jewelry to an insane murderer that almost kills Hortense.
Renine cleverly solves all of the mysteries, though he often resorts to less lawful methods such as using false evidence to get a confession from a criminal.
A very enjoyable book with a happy ending for both the adventurers.
What fun! A reformed criminal, now masquerading as a millionaire prince, has taken up a new life as a sort of fixer, solving crimes instead of committing them. In the first of the eight adventures here he meets a young woman who is desperate to change her life: he invites her to join him in his exploits, no strings attached, for one year. She agrees, although with some reservations, and Hortense and the Prince work their way through seven more cases together. Fast moving, intelligent, and -- for crime fiction -- oddly non-judgemental. Worth the read.
This was a fun one. Under the name Lupin or not, I still liked the character and I loved the whole adventure plot. It almost reminded me of Doctor Who. And it took me 14 books to realize that Leblanc is the narrator in the whole series.
Eight strokes of the clock, eight adventures, eight short stories featuring prince Rénine (Lupin) and Hortense Daniel. The mysteries are not as complex as in other novels, but the book is, as always, quite an agreeable read.
Arsène Lupin, sous le nom de Prince Rénine, prend une compagne d'aventure pour huit énigmes, autant que de coups d'horloges. Chaque mystère est d"un simplicité confondante mais seul Rénine parvient à trouver le fil pour le ravissement de sa jeune compagne.
Huit aventures du prince Rénine, alias Arsène Lupin. Il entreprend de résoudre les énigmes des cinq femmes retrouvées mortes, d'une agrafe de corsage disparue depuis des années, de prouver l'innocence d'un homme, de retrouver sa nouvelle et charmante compagne Hortense Daniel qui a disparu...
Language loveThis book was written when the love of language was important. Almost a romance of words. Loved it. A group of short stories or adventures, some what old fashion but enjoyable.
I read this in one go and enjoyed it. Of course, there was a "just-so" element, with feats that were a little too amazing, but I expected that. I thought it would be more of a typical Lupin book, so that surprised me.
This was my first Lupin, and I really enjoyed it. The setup was silly, but the mysteries were good enough. We aren't talking Sherlock Holmes, but they were better than most of this time period.
Un plaisir pour les amateurs de nouvelles policières.
Gruesome, but awesome!
Entertaining mystery/romance.
Eight amusing stories tied together and a happy ending.
Think I found my new (old and dead) favourite author!!
A fun read of 8 mysteries in one book. Like Sherlock Holmes only French! A great book, I really enjoyed it!
The way this story was structured, with discrete sub-plots, made it difficult for me to get into. I have some more of his books on my Kindle which I hope will be better
Prince Renine alias Arsene Lupin is here assisted in eight adventures by Hortense Daniel.
I loved this book! It was like a French Sherlock Holmes! 8 mystries all in one. If you like detective books, you will love this one!
