https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8032191-the-devil-s-disciple
In Japan at the time this genre was called “erotic grotesque nonsense.” (Clearly something is lost in the translation.) In the first story, the same as the book’s title, a young man is accused of a murder he did not commit.
But coincidentally the prosecutor was a former lover of his and the accused spends all his time in jail writing letters to the prosecutor blaming him for the unfortunate turn in his life and giving long explanations for his behavior, which of course, only serves to did him in deeper in the eyes of the authorities.The second story is Did he Kill Them?
This book contains two long-short stories by a 1920s/30s pioneer of noir influenced crime fiction in Japan. The title story, The Devil's Disciple has a classic noir plot. Twisted sexuality, infidelity, hate, love, murder. It is also an intensely sustained narrative of moral corruption and reproach. Did He Kill Them?, the second story, is no mere makeweight. It begins as a more conventional tale of a love...quadrangle?...and its murderous fallout. But then the ambiguities start to mount. Obsession, possession and a muddled path to execution. I highly recommend this to fans of Georges Simenon and Jim Thompson.
The most famous writer in that movement without a leader was Edogawa Rampo (yes it is a play on the name Edgar Allen Poe) and Shiro Hamao.
He threw that life away to become a crime writer, and an early supporter of gay rights in Japan.
And we can be thankful for Hesperus publishing these two short novels "The Devil's Disciple" and "Did He Kill Him?"Both stories are pretty pulpy, but it drips with Asakusa 1920's life, and both have a gay sensual quality.
Imagine Cocteau writing a gay noir detective story - and that is pretty much what is here.
One can only hope shortly that there will be more Shiro Hamao stories in English.
The Nihon version of the genre remains much more closely tied to its origins in the works of Poe and Wilkie Collins than its European and American counterparts -- indeed, horror in Japan is classified as part of the mystery genre, and books by the likes of Koji Suzuki and Ayatsuji Yukito are as much about figuring out what's going on as grisly supernatural murders.But this also means that Japanese mysteries contain a number of elements that Westerners find off-putting, including unfair tactics like unreliable narrators and hiding vital, need-to-know information until the last minute.The two novellas collected in this book definitely fit into this school of mystery fiction.
Out of the two short novellas here my favourite was called Did He Kill Them?,in what seems to be an open and shut case Hamao manages to turn things around with an ending which is kind of anticipated but the motive and circumstances of the crime are left until the culprit's confession, the translation flows really well, and the story stayed with me after I put the book down .
This is the first translation of Hamao's stories available in book format, hopefully not the last.
What a little gem...! Two very, very brief, and utterly brilliant novellas -- teetering on the razor's edge of sexual perversion and murder... shame and guilt... what a surprising find....The short introduction to this volume is also essential, in placing both Hamao and this genre of ero-guro-nansensu ('dark, erotic nonsense') in its proper context).
Erotic grotesque nonsense ... why would anyone write anything else? These two stories present adultery, homosexuality, sadomasochism and mahjong in the Taisho Democracy (Asia's answer to the Weimar Republic). Dirty, sexy, cool ... like one of the better Lady Gaga videos.
Así, en El discípulo del diablo un preso se dirige a su viejo amigo, amante y ahora fiscal, para poner los puntos sobre las íes en el caso que le ha llevado a la cárcel.Eizo Shimaura no parece haber conservado muchas cosas de su juventud, pero todas ellas serán determinantes: primero, su relación con Hachiro Tsuchida (el ahora fiscal), especie de ser satánico, con el que mantuvo una relación ya no solo de amistad sino también sexual, y al que no duda de calificar de su maestro en lo terrible; segundo, heredado de Tsuchida, su necesidad de los tranquilizantes para poder dormir, siempre, hasta necesitar cantidades y compuestos increíbles; tercero, su amor por Sueko.
The Devil's Disciple is one of those rare books that works well both in the field of crime fiction and outside of it; it is probably one of the most literary pieces of crime fiction I've read lately.I'd recommend this book first and foremost to people familiar with Japanese crime fiction and who enjoy that genre's dark atmosphere, psychological complexity and in many cases, the bizarre twists these authors love to employ.
Lumping Shiro Hamao's sashimi-sized slivers of short stories in The Devil's Disciple down as detective fiction would be a little like calling Mark Twain a travel writer, or Charles Dickens that bloke who penned miserable Christmas stuff: in other words, it would do scant justice to a writer who wrote the stories that make up this intriguing, translated volume in 1929, six years before his tragically early death at the age of forty.Originally published in the Japanese magazine Shinseinen, these appear to stand as the only work of Hamao - among his sixteen novellas and three full-length novels - to be put into English.
il thriller poliziesco nell'epoca Meijiquattro racconti polizieschi incentrati più sull'analisi psic
historias que llenan la mente de una trama tan peculiar y dedicada que te hacen disfrutar cada párrafo y frase de una manera extraordinaria. autores japoneses simplemente son de los pocos capaces de asombrar con palabras ordinarias utilizadas de maneras extraordinarias. sorpresa y mucho deleite... enero 2015
Voto finale 4,5 stelle. Ne parlo qua: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JXPU2...
The first story was predictable. I liked the second story a little. So the 3 star.
Con alle spalle la propria esperienza come avvocato e procuratore, Hamao Shirō (1896-1935) si dedica alla letteratura cimentandosi nel genere poliziesco, e più in particolare in quello che oggi potrebbe essere definito una sorta di progenitore del legal thriller.
Al di là delle manifestazioni più estreme, c'è una costante soffusa sensualità che permea tutti i racconti, fatta di sguardi e attimi fugaci che possono decidere un'intera vita.E come in ogni noir che si rispetti, non possono mancare le femme fatale, donne per cui dannarsi, incantatrici più o meno innocenti, vittime o complici.
Ma Hamao Shirō è stato anche un uomo di Legge, ed è quindi più che consapevole di come spesso la Giustizia non riesca a punire i veri colpevoli, o, peggio ancora, condanni gli innocenti.
Yo no he jugado nunca en Japón, pero si varias veces en China, cuna del juego, y normalmente en las zonas rurales.
Tal y como lo juegan en China es de una velocidad increíble, para mi vergüenza y las simpáticas tomaduras de pelo hacia mí del resto de los jugadores.
como se nota que el libro está escrito mucho antes de la aparición de los verdaderos monstruos que nos han rodeado y nos rodean actualmente.
No obstante las tramas, la descripción de los personajes, el encanto que tienen todos y cada uno de ellos en especial en el segundo cuento hacen que su lectura sea sin duda algo a disfrutar.
These two stories by Hamao Shiro are probably of greater historical than literary interest to most readers but for those intrigued by the development of crime fiction, psychological fiction, and modernism in early modern Japan, this is an excellent and really very entertaining little book.
Cada día me encanta más la literatura japonesa. No sé porque los escritores japoneses fueron tan versátiles de escribir en todos los géneros.
Dos relatos uno más fantástico de otro, ambos son muy parecidos en su estructura y narrativa, muestran el estilo del autor.Sin embargo ambos relatos tienen sus toques de locura y vueltas de tuerca geniales.
Japanese authors were influenced by writers such as Edgar Allan Poe. In six years, Hamao wrote 17 novellas and 3 novels, and was working on his fourth one before he died at the relatively premature age of 40.
His works often focus on themes of aestheticised decadence and sexual and moral perversity.Now I'll comment about Hamao's two novellas in turn.The Devil's DiscipleThis little gem is about a man who write a series of letters to his old school-friend and lover, a prosecutor.
The man is in jail for a crime he didn't commit, murdering his young lover by allegedly giving her an overdose of sleep medication.
Per quanto risenta di un lieve sentimentalismo, la produzione di Hamao ha l’enorme merito di portare alla ribalta tematiche dirompenti per il contesto dell’epoca, ad esempio l’omosessualità maschile, con espedienti narrativi sempre diversi e moventi e psicologie mai banali. Lo stile elegante e acuto e le ambientazioni spesso altolocate accompagnano inoltre frammenti di vita che ancora profumano della liberalità degli anni Venti in Giappone.Recensione pubblicata qui: http://www.rivistaunaspecie.com/recen...
The parts that are presented as manuscripts are compelling. There are points where I felt like the second story lost a bit of steam, and I started to skim. But the conclusion to that story is worth sticking around for.The first story is some straight hearts of darkness stuff.... woof. Needed to take a break during that one.
Man vs. LawIn this book - Man (may have) wonIn reality - Man with money wonI am interested to know why Hamao-san left his post as an attorney and started his writing career. True, he was a very good writer and literary world would have lost a gem if he persisted in practising perverted laws. But what was his reason?
Early Ero-GuroTwo of Hamao's stories are included in this book. Atrocious crimes explained straight from the mouths of the criminals, delving into the psychology of crime and what actually makes a criminal act. Strong themes of misogyny and sexual taboos.
Nice translation. Language choices ("dame," "bereft") slightly anachro, cavalierly awful like a John Banville character ("just finished the shitty meal she prepared and dived back into my research on murder") and proximate to the noir idiom without being hammy.
El libro está compuesto por dos relatos muy interesantes, en los que abunda el misterio, el asesinato y la duda. Nada es lo que parece. El primer relato es el que más me ha gustado. El segundo es algo rebuscado, pero en ambos el listón está muy alto.
It was really nice to read something different. My first experience with heterodox crime writing - love the blurring of good/bad and the use of an unreliable narrator. Also nice to read 1920s Japanese literature for a touch of the decadent. Well written and good use of language.
Deliciously dark. Wish there was more legal drama, but the psychological brilliance made up for it.
Sigue la línea de El corazón delator de Poe
La primera historia sabe a poco, pero la segunda ("¿Fue él quien los mató?") es brillante, con un desenlace deliciosamente retorcido (y avanzado para su época).
