https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149150.Giant
With sweltering heat, a husband that works like a cowhand, and an evil old-maid sister-in-law to contend with, Leslie enters a nightmare of a new lifestyle finding some shameful abuses to Mexican humanity, and a BBQ menu from hell (calf brains served in the head.....ewwwww!) and that's just the start.This old western classic is a Giant of a good read with a powerful storyline!
There are some wild and crazy good characters in this book and movie, but James Dean really stands out in the movie as a drunken ranch hand turned oil tycoon.....What A Performance!
The movie begins differently than the book and has a much better ending.
I finished this sweeping novel of Texas while on an airplane, bound for my first visit to that great state.
I had earlier sent a call out to my friends, asking what one should read before one's first trip to Texas, and when I saw that this suggestion was written by the author of So Big, a novel I loved, I knew I'd found a winner.I was right.Giant is absolutely a tale of Texas in the earlier part of this century, shortly after the Great War. It's a tale of ranches and cattle, dust and mesquite, Mexicans and Americans.
Sometimes it reminded me vaguely of Austen, some of the characters caricatures of the embittered old ranch madama, the rancher's daughter, the clucking hordes of unthinking cattle wives and the Stetson headed county commissioner.
After finishing this novel I can definitely say that I prefer the movie adaptation more in comparison.
Once you make it through the first few chapters of the novel which hits you over the head with the magnitude of the state of Texas and everything in it, it certainly gets a little easier as we get to see the Leslie and Bick's relationship from the beginning.
I can't really recommend the novel, unless you want to discover the movie's source material, but the movie, although a little overlong, is much more accessible and worth your time.
(Yeah, I know - "Sweeping Family Saga" is much more bite-sized and digestible, isn't it.) The heroine is a free-thinking liberal from Virginia while her Texas born-and-raised rancher husband is at heart a good person but stubborn, myopic, conservative, and often kind of a dick.
Ultimately however, I was expecting more of a story here - I like a good Sweeping Family Saga - and less of a study, and it took me several weeks to slog through this.
4.75 StarsI remember watching  Giant  with my mother some twenty or thirty years ago, and I loved, loved the movie. Rock Hudson as Jordan "Bick" Benedict, Elizabeth Taylor as Leslie Lynnton Benedict, and James Dean as Jett Rink; what an incredible cast. And despite Edna Ferber's descriptions of these characters, I could only see the actor's images as I read Giant.The novel does deviate somewhat from the movie: the beginning is the movie's ending and there is more to the Jett/Leslie angle, rather
And despite Edna Ferber's descriptions of these characters, I could only see the actor's images as I read Giant.The novel does deviate somewhat from the movie: the beginning is the movie's ending and there is more to the Jett/Leslie angle, rather than the novel's stating that Jett had "a thing" for Leslie from the beginning.
Yes, Jett's motive for his revenge is crystal clear, and Jordan Benedict's hatred of Jett Rink is also clearly defined.Giant should be read a bit slow because Ferber fills her lovely prose with such detailed descriptions I could feel the winds, smell the mesquite, see the oasis-es on the highway, and so on.
This story is about TEXAS.
Everything is big in TEXAS.
In TEXAS we do things differently, and it's like a whole other country.
TEXANS are like no other people.
People not from TEXAS couldn't possibly understand what it means to be from TEXAS.
Did I mention TEXAS?
I did feel like I was being beaten over the head with it, though.
I enjoyed the book more than I would have thought possible at the beginning.
There didn't really seem to be much of a resolution to the story, it just kind of ended, and I wasn't sure what I was supposed to make of it.
I've seen the movie several times on TV and read Cimarron years ago and liked it, so decided it was time to read Giant.For me, this is one case where the movie is better than the book.While it deals with some serious issues, racism being one, mostly it reads like a cross between an encyclopedia and a tour-guide book about Texas.
There are pages and pages going on about the history of Texas, breeding cattle, Texas, Mexican workers, Texas, etc., then a few paragraphs where something actually happens, then back to the history lessons about Texas again!
I confess I finally did a lot of skimming.3.5 stars
It's plain to see from the first chapter that the movie was an excellent adaptation of Ferber's book, although I'm disappointed in her.
She spends copious pages showing us the early marriage of Leslie and Bick Benedict, how his staunch Texas idealism clashes with her Virginia liberalism, and while that's all fun and well-done, Ferber rushes through more fascinating circumstances in their lives in the last 100 pages as if she just got tired of keeping up so much with these characters, but I wasn't tired of it!
Ferber's a great writer, however, and I look forward to reading her other books.
But aside from that, it is mostly a novel of Texas.
At times Ferber's writing made me feel as though I was expirencing the ranch land first hand.Another prickly issue in this story was about the Mexican people.
And in doing so the Orignal People get treated badly and lose many of the wonderful things they once cherished.But you have to look at the story this way, it was written in Mid Century America when many things were done differently.
If it were written today it would have a completly different feel to it.I am glad I took the time to read this one.
Describing the ostentatiousness of Jett Rink's hotel, in which everything is branded with his initials: "Downstairs and upstairs, inside and out, on awnings carpets couches chairs desks rugs; towels linen; metal cloth wood china glass, the brand JR was stamped etched embroidered embossed woven painted inlaid." It's hard to even type that, my hands want to put in the commas, but how much stronger it is when it's written that way.
The novel begins building up to an incident when Bick and Leslie are middle-aged, then goes back to recount their meeting, whirlwind courtship and marriage, and disorienting first days in Texas.
Like in So Big, Ferber ends this novel abruptly with characters facing poignant questions.Though dramatic at times, some of the middle of the novel moves slowly, and there are many details about the ranch, its work, and the Texan landscape.This novel paints a vivid picture of a piece of American history, and explores themes of progress, of land, of marriage, of the parent-child relationship, of size, of success, of power, of right and wrong.
When she meets her future Texas big money husband, the sparks fly, and oddly they both seem to like it, and lo they are married.The rest of the book is about how she, and therefore the reader, learns about how big money ranches in old Texas are run, the people that live on those ranches, and all the tangles two people who are so different and marry quickly can get into.However, on a deeper level, somewhat disturbing and yet good for soul searching, we see the terrible ways people did and still do live, the sides they live on by birth or choice, and almost finish the book with a sense of dismay until we realize what Leslie is really saying at the end of the book.I am sure my review leaves you wondering if you should read the book, and the only answer I can give is it depends on the genre of books you like.
Giant is full of conflicts and contrasting influences.
There is the contrast between rich white landowners and poor hispaniclaborers.
There is the confrontation between oil and cattle, between Benedictand Rink, between sister in law and wife.With all these dramatic contrasts, I was somewhat disappointed in the lackof resolution.
The book is rich, wittyand artistic in its portrayal of a larger than life early twentieth centuryTexas, and I fully enjoyed that.
At the end, though, it seemed to fall apart without resoving the conflicts that had been established.
Blows the movie out of the water.
It's a much more cogent, penetrating, and pessimistic critique of Texas, and American, society and culture.
One might almost call it cynical.
The characters are much more sharply drawn, without the Hollywood softening to make them more acceptable to Peoria.
The women aren't quite as beautiful and the men are not nearly as heroic.The social critique of the founding of Texas is presented in greater detail and depth than in the film, and the treatment of the Mexican-Americans is more brutal and realistic.
In economic and social terms, Ferber is prophetic.
I suppose this is a look at a certain type of Texan, whom I have never met, despite more than 20 years in San Antonio. But I've always lived in a city, never on a ranch. Never even been to a ranch. Don't know anybody who owns a ranch. The movie developed somewhat differently from the novel, and I'm not so sure that I didn't like the movie better. But the novel is very readable.

Edna Ferber's sprawling epic concerns 25 years of married life between liberal-minded Leslie and conservative Jordan Benedict, and how as they watch the world changing around them, they find themselves changing too.
My biggest problem here is that most of the book takes place in Leslie's first two weeks in Texas, and then the last 125 pages are about her final 25 years; in the film, they spread it out more, and I liked the effect better.
I run Reata.
She walked about reading from these, one finger between the pages, her gaze going from book to object in approved tourist fashion."You can't do that!" the Texans protested, outraged.'Mmm - San Antonio," mumbled Leslie.
"Who named it San Antonio?"The Texans stared at one another.
"Let's see...Don Domingo Teran de los Rios, with Father Damian Massanet and an escort of fifty soldiers...June 1691...came upon Rancheria of Payayas...What's a Payaya?""Indian tribe," Bick replied briskly."Leslie is a bore.
Bick is a bore.
The book "Giant" was a quick and very enjoyable read and did not disappoint this eager reader.
The story takes place in Texas around the time of the Depression and World War II.
:)It was easy to get lost in this story and as I read the words seemed to disappear and I was there in Texas.
Edna Ferber seems to be somewhat of a Realist, and her books, while enjoyable, are not always the most uplifting.
It's not a depressing book or anything like that, and it's not that the ending was really sad.
I'm struggling with Giant and So Big. Giant immediately feels like an author who has really expanded her craft; it's more formally experimental and takes greater liberty with language than its predecessor.
And she's tackling some thorny philosophical issues surrounding class, race and citizenship in America that resonant especially loudly in the present political climate.
Unfortunately, it becomes a rather pedantic mediation on TEXAS and WHAT TEXAS IS and WHAT TEXAS MEANS that is quickly wearisome.
Biggest ranch.
Biggest steer.
Biggest houses.
Biggest hat.
Biggest state.
A mania for bigness.
By the time Ferber wrote this, she had written a number of plays and had a number of novels adapted for the screen.
Clearly, in Giant, she was envisioning the novel as a film, and she writes with a cinematic voice.
The novel is filled with Texas lore, and probably far too many characters to manage well.
But it also--as with so many of Ferber's novels--plows head-on into issues of social justice, driven by a strong female character who wants the Chicano-Americans to have good living conditions and equal rights.
A not-very-well-written book with a great heart and a great eye for detail.
I was further intrigued when I realized that it caused quite a scandal when it was published in 1952.
Giant Scandal article And although I agree with the author of this article that sometimes the Texans seemed more like caricatures, it was a charming novel with some really sharp understanding of human natured tucked away in it.
The protagonist's struggles acclimating herself to Texas and her husband reminded me a lot of Main Street by Sinclair Lewis.
In both you have a young independent woman trying to be herself amidst stubbornly provincial husbands and communities.
I'd never read this classic and it came to my attention when watching a BBC series, A Place to call home, where one of the main characters is engrossed in this novel while on her honeymoon.
I had heard of it, of course and had seen the movie many years ago.
The book is quite interesting and a page turner with great characters and it holds up well.
I can only imagine the sensation it caused when it came out.
Texans had to be livid.
Now I must see the movie again.
Edna Ferber was a favorite author when I was a high school and college student.
I had never read Giant and still feel that Ferber tells a great story.
The book was somewhat hard to capture my interest when I began.
Once chapter five began and Leslie and Bick first met and fell in love, I was hooked!
The setting of Texas during the first half of the twentieth century was fascinating.
I watched the movie after I read the book.
The movie was well acted, but the book made the characters more multidimensional and of course gave more complete background information.
3.5 stars. The last half I couldn't put it down, although the beginning feels disjointed, starting at the end then going back to the beginning. I wonder why the author decided to structure it that way. Maybe if you started with Bick's trip to "ole Virginny" it reads flat? It reminds me of that Elton John song that was so boring, then they added the live audience track in the background and it was a hit. One little switcharoo changes the whole feel of it.
I've reread this book several times and it always makes me cry. Texas, West, Texas, will always be my home. Ferber's words immortalized the true mortality of what it means to be blessed enough to be a part of the Lone Star State. I've always wanted to be a part of a group that breaks down the text into a book study. It would be interesting to see which character everyone connects with the most.
This is a good classic. It has drama, humor, romance, kept my interest. I read it when I was in high school. I learned some about prejudice, and overcoming of that; how money can hurt as well as help. The young woman falls for the sexy bad boy rich man, (who I wanted, too), but sees in the end that he doesn't have true strength of character and is not good for her. She also found that her parents were wiser than she thought.
I recently went to the opening of the musical production of Giant and received a free a copy of the book. I had never heard of the author and later read that she was considered one of the best female writers of her generation. Compared to the dark novels I normally read, this was breath of fresh air. A little Texas history mixed with love, life, wealth and ranching.
Truly amazing and exactly the kind of book that I love -- sprawling and epic. I did have some trouble with getting a frame of reference for the time period though. I couldn't get my head around the fact that things were taking place during the 50's and 60's. But then again, maybe that was the point.
I didn't enjoy this as much as I did So Big - I guess I just couldn't get into the mystical life of cattle rearing and oil drills in the heart of Texas. I found it hard to care about the characters and I was ready for the novel to end long before it actually did.
