https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/262304.The_Wild_Party
Another, Black, "spends part of the evening" lustfully with Queenie:"His hips were jaunty,And his gestures too dextrous.A Versatile lad!He was ambisextrous."and those three figure centrally in the story all the way through to the abrupt ending:And the cops rushed in.A lot of the poetry is bad, doggerel, maybe kind of fitting the salacious subject matter: drunkenness, casual sex/swapping, an orgy, misogyny, and, spoiler alert, manslaughter:His mouth and his throat were foul cotton.God, he felt rotten!And:His mouth twitched:He was dangerously still,By an enormous power of will.Her eyes filled with a martyred look:She registered grief, and her voice shook.So, that’s not great poetry, but you know, I liked it, anyway.
OMG people.
This book is all nuts and screws.
Art Spiegelman illustrates this bit of Speakeasy grit, all told in rhyming couplets.
Eighty pages of them.
I did not pee.
I did not do anything but turn each page for two hours until I was through.
It makes me wonder the things my grandma has seen that I'll never know about.
Reminds me of the time she told me about girls that "went" together.
She said, "Now we didn't mean anything by it .
but we used to call them: queer.""Good news, Mag!" I told her, "and no worries.
Short of that, a small sample -- certainly not the dirtiest section, but representative, and one that can stand on its own -- will have to do:The bedroom door swung open wide,And a girl sauntered outWith a man at her side.They kissed, in a matter-of-fact way,And were mildly gay.His suit was badly out of press.She tried to smooth her crumpled dressWith small success.He pulled his tie back in its place:She rouged her lips:She powdered her face.She rearranged disordered hair.What had been going on in there?Who noticed the two--And nobody seemed to care.The edition of "The Wild Party" I read is introduced and illustrated by Art Spiegelman, a long-time fan of the book who pushed for it to be reprinted.
He read some of it on the air.
It was to become the 2nd book I ever bought for myself, after Atheism: The Case Against God. I still have The Wild Party, but A:TCAG was thrown in the garbage by Tony "Loony Tunes" Perez (a noted Catholic) in college.
I memorized the first two chapters of The Wild Party, and it sat atop my short list of Favorite Books before being dethroned by Lolita, which lost out to Blood Meridian, which was topped by For Whom the Bell Tolls.
A friend lent me this poetry book, illustrated by Art Spiegelman, at a party where we played many rounds of exquisite corpse and everyone got drunk off Campari. Tipsy handing it to me after a conversation about graphic novels, she said: this is a naughty book, you'll like it. And she was right. The book's forward, and the forward--also by Spiegelman, goes into how William Burroughs decided to be a writer after reading the Wild Party at Harvard. Considering the characters and content surrounding lust and heavy debauchery in rhyme, that makes sense.
The poetry itself is decent, but the setting and characters that makeup the story are great. Vicious and entertaining, and Spiegelman did a beautiful job illustrating it. He does everything in a version of his normal work which seems woodblocked, so it has a feeling of being deep and simple at the same time. Good for poetry lovers, great for the more open minded of sequential art readers, and just really, really cool for those who like Jazz Era New York culture and history.
Once you grab it, you just can't stop reading til you reach the last page. And then you start again!
Zum Glück findet man im Freundeskreis Menschen, die manche Leidenschaden wie Bücher und Comics teilen und dann solche Bücher verborgen.Sowas mag ich sehr.In diesem besonderen Fall ist die Grundlage ein Gedicht aus den zwanziger Jahren, zufällig von Art Spiegelman entdeckt und es faszinierte ihn sogleich.
Das teils holprige tut dem Genuss keinen Abbruch - leichtfüßig, schnell und auf die wesentlichen Charaktere und Ereignisse fokussiert, wird man durchgeführt und darf an den Ausschweifungen der damaligen Gesellschaft teilhaben.
Art hat sich von den plastisch beschriebenen Bildern im Gedicht voll einnehmen lassen und mehr als einmal ist es mir passiert, dass die Gesichter in den Zeichnungen nachhaltig hängen blieben.
Some wild party.
First of all, the book's endpages are red velvet!
I discovered this poem/story randomly as I was browsing over at the Main library here on UGA's campus.
Noticing Art Spiegelman's name on it, I immediately placed it in my stack of books.
An interesting read although it possesses a very dark and depressing undertone.
Spiegelman mentions in the introduction that during a conversation with William S.
Burroughs that this was the first story Burroughs read that really made him want to write.
Make yourself a mint julep and sit down to enjoy the quick rhythm of the prose and Spiegelman's wonderful art, as usual.
A narrative poem from 1928 describing a night among louche theater people. It was widely banned but still a big success. It's powerful not just for being daring but also wonderfully written, and I say this as someone who doesn't like poetry much. I can't stop thinking about the ending. Art Spiegelman did expressive illustrations for this 1994 version in a woodcut style reminiscent of Lynd Ward.
The poem - a syncopated tale of Jazz Age debauchery - is slight, but pleasant enough for a quick read. The nineties introduction by Art Spiegelman, though, has dated far worse. Remember the End of History? Ha. His illustrations still aren't really my thing, but capture the fleshiness and signs of wear the poem demands.
It's almost impossible to write a proper review for The Wild Party, way too many things to be said. To keep it simple, it's as wild as the title promises (as well as awfully but yet delightfully disturbing and funny)!
Truly a 'lost' classic. This was such a quick fun read and captured the crazy, sultry lifestyle of the Roaring 20's. Definitely had shades of the type of shenanigans that Hemingway described in another classic 'The Sun Also Rises'. I thoroughly enjoyed this little gem.
The Spiegelman illustrations are great. The poem, though very much of its age, is very affecting. And very funny in places. My favorite lines:"His hips were jaunty,And his gestures too dextrous.A Versatile lad!He was ambisextrous."
Interesting. An experience. Also, probably not the best choice for reading on an airplane when passengers beside you might wonder about the dirty pictures in that book you're reading.
Decadence! Cruelty! Sickening violence! Sudden death! Bootleg Gin and Bottomless Despair! Makes Studs Lonigan look like Pride and Prejudice!
A quick read... but as I'm really not fond of graphic novels it wasn't really my style of reading. It was written as a poem... so if you read it out loud some of the scenes make more sense.
The art and packaging are superlative. Spiegelman is a master. Five stars. The poem itself, fun and sleazy and pretty near worthless. I averaged the whole thing out to a really enjoyable three stars.
Upon its 1928 publication the poem was widely banned, first in Boston, for having content viewed as wild as the titular party...When asked once about March's The Wild Party, the acclaimed writer William Burroughs replied, "It's the book that made me want to be a writer."I first saw the 1994 version of this epic poem with illustrations by Art Spiegelman.
Putting aside for now the issues involved with illustrating a work written to stand on it's own, I just didn't like his art (not in general, just in this one).
Libro que compré primeramente por un mal entendido de la contraportada. Viene una cita de William S. Burroughs: “La fiesta salvaje es el libro que me convirtió en escritor”. Y yo pensé que Burroughs era el escritor del libro. Luego, ya en casa, descubrí que era un comentario de él sobre el libro, que el autor es el juguetón de Joseph Moncure March. Segunda cosa por la cual lo compré: está ilustrado estupenda y atinadamente por Art Spiegelman. El Spiegy es garantía total, es de los buenos. Tan bu
Libro que compré primeramente por un mal entendido de la contraportada.
Burroughs: “La fiesta salvaje es el libro que me convirtió en escritor”.
Y yo pensé que Burroughs era el escritor del libro.
Tan bueno es el Spiegy que el libro, no siendo suyo, lo ilustra y lo hace tan bien que lo hace suyo y nos hace suyos al leerlo, cantarlo, corearlo y verlo.
Bueno, ustedes entienden: bien-mal-para-bien.
De esos libros que llegan accidentalmente, y que el accidente se termina por convertir en una especie de gratísimo regalo del Azar.
According to the introduction by Art Spiegelman, this is the book that made William Burroughs want to become a writer.
It is a poem -- William Burroughs said it is -- "it rhymes".
Like most things hopped up on bathtub gin, this story doesn't end well.Clearly, Art Spiegelman loved this poem when he illustrated it.
Not only does he say that he fell in love with the poem within his introduction that comes a few pages after the red velvet end-papers, he shows that he fell in love with the poem with every wonderful and sometimes decadent illustration.
art spiegelman is an amazing human being.
But this poem is a riotous riff on the stylishness and slum of the Jazz Age, and his adaptation is a breathtaking gem.
But rather than being spiky, they feel jaunty - pocket change you rattle in your hand while whistling a few bars of a catchy classic.
While most widely known for Maus, Spiegelman is at his best for me in his city books.
If City of Glass: The Graphic Novel is the cerebral paean to the nature of languages, cities, and time, The Wild Party is a perfect snapshot of an ephemeral age.
Years back I happened upon a movie with Raquel Welch and it made an impression on my young mind and I remembered it even after all these years.
Well the movie was forgettable but the poem was fantastic.
I finished the poem in an hour; I couldn't stop reading it!
They are deceitful, decadent, violent and they decide to have a party during the Jazz Age. What happens during the night is told in hilarious and sad lines that connect to each other brilliantly.
I doubt I would have bothered with The Wild Party but for the production that has been mounted by my favorite local professional musical theatre company.
That production, from St. Louis' New Line Theatre, is, like most of New Line's shows, outrageous and fabulously well done.
I found the music somewhat cacophonous and the simulated sex annoying - and the actors, their performances, and the intricate choreography totally mesmerizing.However, this is supposed to be about the book-length poem, not the show or the production, however much one affects the other.The poem is crude, dirty doggerel, but its rhythms are inescapable, the crisp depiction of its characters unavoidably entertaining.
Normally it does not matter to me which edition of a book you read, but in this case I am reviewing the Art Spiegelman illustrated 1994 reissue - and, even more specifically, the hardcover.
The book - the actual physical object, rather than simply the text - is very important in this case.The text was written by Joseph Moncure March back in the 'twenties.
A sensual, hedonistic tale of sensual, hedonistic times.
However it cannot be read without Spiegalman's gloriously debauched illustrations.
One needs the hardcover.
A substantial amount of time has passed since I completed a full read of THE WILD PARTY.
I admit, my memory of the material has weakened, and only increases so the further I distance myself from the scripture and the closer my appointment with death approaches.
If, by chance, I find the desired time to revisit THE WILD PARTY, I will be sure to give it the accurate criticism it deserves upon it's second completion for myself.
Until then, there is a plethora of things to be read, so be sure to keep your eyes pealed for my opinion on them.
READ ON!!!
‘The wild party’ is a hard boiled Jazz Age tragedy, told as a nursery rhyme.Queenie was a blonde, and her age stood still,And she danced twice a day in a vaudeville.Queenie and Burrs have a violent spat.
Then comes along Black an innocent lad.
Black falls for Oueenie and they end up in the back room.Some love is fire: some love is rust:But the fiercest, cleanest love is lust.Burrs stagers in and pulls out a gun.
Black wrests it, it fires and kills Burrs.And the cops rushed in.March improvised his Jazz age tail a few lines a day over the summer of 1926.
'Wild' really is the world. March's verse swings from long and lyrical to sharp and staccato, almost in imitation of the lurching, drunken movement of his characters. Burrs, Black, Queenie, and Kate (not to mention the rest of the guests, including incestuous brother pianists, an 'ambisextrous' dancer, a predatory middle-aged lesbian, a hard-drinking pugilist, his girlfriend, and her fourteen-year-old sister) are rendered disturbingly lifelike by jarring, colorful, and occasionally disgusting descriptions. Well worth a read if you like the Coen brothers as much as you like F. Scott Fitzgerald.
What's not to love?
In the course of this epic poem, March details an evening full of jazz, sex, violence and general debauchery with a nicely varied cast of generally unsavory types, including Queenie (a blond bombshell off of the Vaudeville stage), Burrs (a misanthropic and belligerent clown, her lover), and Black (a new man on scene, who aims to steal Queenie from Burrs).
The new edition (pictured) has illustrations by Art Spiegelman, which are a nice touch.
The source material for two fine musicals- one with music by Andrew Lippa, the other Michael John LaChiusa- that are both commercially available.
