https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108540.The_Dark_Room
She was so emotional and her actions quite extreme or at least they seemed so, but then I remembered the state I was in when I found out my husband was having an affair, and made allowances for the fact that she came from another culture, India, and therefore would act differently from me in some ways.
What I hadn't thought of was the way religion can, under guise of the correct path, actually be a malign influence on not just actions but ways of thinking too.
I would have felt guilty at her last action, but she could use religion to justify her contempt.
When Kaikaye, the step-mother of Rama, on being manipulated by the Manthara, her wet-mother, decided to claim her two wishes, she went to this room called kop-bhavam - literrally a sulking chamber, a room in which you go when you are angry.
For Sita, too naive to rely on indirect methods, the only option is to isolate herself from people she is disappointed from and ask Earth to take her in.Savitri in our novel had a dark room in her house which she used as her Kop-bhavan.
Indians, like people of Dostovesky's novels, love blaming their country for all problems ....
The third Narayan novel I have read in the Everyman's Library edition of four stories set in the fictional town of Malgudi, India and I am looking forward to the fourth ('The English Teacher'), as Narayan's wonderful unassuming and gentle style improved with each of the books I have read so far.
No wonder that she slinks off to a dark room of the house for bouts with major depression.As with the first two Malgudi novels, the tale is a sort of bittersweet parable.
It's been long since I last visited Malgudi; it was with Talkative Man, I guess.I fancy if there exists still housewives like Savitri, who is hellbent to achieve salvation by doing her duties as a resourseful wife and mother at home.
And uncertainty of Savitri's conscience at the end of the book about whether it is right to call Mari to her house when she herself feel strange about her position in the house and her right over the things she no longer can claim ownership over, even if it comes to her own kids.
I can see from the eyes of this book, the temple, the river, all of Malgudi and its people.
A simple story which depicts the picture of our conservative society where a man can get away with anything but a woman cannot even do things which definitely looks quite normal to me.
The great man comes up with another story which leaves a huge impact on the readers.
A story as relevant today as it was way back when it was first published in 1956, it certainly makes for a thought-provoking read.
Read it just to get an idea how our society can stay quite stagnant/static after almost 75 years;this book was written in 1938!
Unconventional
A familiar story of marriage, conflict, an affair, reconciliation, but all this with Narayan’s trademark touches.
While what happens is not without drama, including an attempted suicide, the story unfolds as if this is just one more small episode in the human comedy—a kind of tableau miniature.
And, again, the reader is transported into a world of karmic inevitability.
We know that Ramani, the gruff, unfaithful husband and his longsuffering but inevitably fed-up wife will get back together without much really changing .
This is a small novel that occupies one or two hours profitably.
It's not the plot, but the character that drives the story and here Narayan shows tremendous writerly gifts.The Dark Room is about a dominant, excessively critical and self-centered husband, Ramani living with his wife Savitri and three children.
But quickly realising the narrowness of his world, comes back into the mainstream.In The Dark Room, Narayan quite clearly feels a deep anguish at the wife being treated shabbily and leaves no opportunity to portray the ugliness and selfishness of the husband's character.The book is less of a novel and more of a novella.
Moments of brilliance, portraying how fallible we are
A story back in time when the fairer sex was treated unfair. they were married off soon and expected to be under the thumb of the husband. the protagonist Savitiri is one such character.The story is more about the domestic relation between a husband and wife and what happens to the equation of the wife dares.Also deals with themes of casteism, male chauvinistic world etc. A literature which can be grazed on surface and also provides a deep theme.
In this book, the author has actually tried to highlight the nature of family that lived during those times.
Maybe in some ways that nature of families still continues.This story is about Savitri who is a submissive housewife living with her husband and three children.
When her husband starts an affair with colleague in office, she fights back and leaves house and tries to kill herself.
It is a good book to read but in the end it leaves you sad for Savitri.
I found it curious how there are many parallels between this story and Charlotte Bronte's "Jane Eyre".
In my view it's Jane Eyre living in Malgudi, with her three children, without an education and a husband, who has found another woman.
In this story Savitri is the strong female character, who is being in some ways oppressed by her husband.
She leaves abruptly with similar points and ideas in her speech as Jane Eyre had.
But I think that she returned in order to make sure that her daughters have a way to escape a similar fate to her own - get an education and be able to earn a salary and not be dependent on someone for their whole life.
3.5 stars.Read this in a single sitting.
Everytime I start reading RKN, it feels like this is the best book by him so far!
Unfortunately this feeling ended after 50% when suddenly the story took a wild turn.
This is a simple story of Savitri, mother of three children with a very dominating husband.
Even the minutest emotions are depicted very well and yet so simplistic.First half - 5 stars for it is just brilliant!
More than any other book I've read by him.Overall - 3 stars.An extra half star only because it is based in Mysore, a city I'm so much in love with :)

Like in anyother RKN's stories - this too brings alive the life of 1950's in Southern India.The great man comes up with another story which leaves a huge impact on the readers.
A story as relevant today as it was way back when it was first published in 1956, it certainly makes for a thought-provoking read.
It reflects the unfair conservatism of a society which has been set up in a way where it is always easy to lead life as a male rather than a female.
RK Narayan is perhaps an eminent feminist among Indian writers.
Liked it much better than The World of Nagaraj.The character of Ramani reminded of this piece from Nisha Susan about the phenomenon of "Particular Men": http://theladiesfinger.com/particular... Narayan captures the same thing in a brilliant way by opening up his internal monologue and showing how weak he actually is in face of manipulation.And Ponni was a superstar!
Dark room is a story of a woman who raises her voice against her dominating husband after he cheats on her.
Nothing new , right?
But story isn't about her struggle of how she had risen to occasion.
It's about what if a person doesn't has the strength to go over and doing it alone?
There are too many stories of success, but very few of attempting and failing in pursue of it.
Helplessness of Savitri will not make you rebuke her cowardice but will make you feel for her.Very good story with unexpected turn and grim ending but a reality of lot many Indian wives.
Very Good and interesting fictional story by narayan. Many life tips are also given. The fifth best book for me
This is really 31/2 stars.
The glimpse of a typical housewife. The incidents and resolutions she experiments to overcome her own thinking about herself.Well ending fine.
I found the book amazing on the sensitivity displayed for a traditional Indian woman, that too in one written in the 1930s. I love all RK Narayan's books and this is no exception.
Which is why this book and its title, piqued my interest.I always look at the voluminous copy of Malgudi Days at the bookstore with mixed feelings of guilt and fear.
Fear, that if I did pick up a copy and read it, I just might have to alter my sepia tinged memories of his words.The Dark Room is everything I had never associated with Mr. Narayan.
In The Dark Room, Narayan touches upon, with great sensitivity, a woman’s existence in just about any kind of society with great poignancy.
yet another wonderful work by RK Narayan
well, the ones who would say such things have watched too many wasteful tamil movies.We must keep in mind that this story was written close to sixty years ago.The fact is that the story of the troubles of a husband and wife couple with their suspicions of infidelity and self-doubt, is still commonplace today as it must have have been at the time the great novelist penned it down.Moreover, the classical setting of a little Indian town is not entirely fictitious, and can still be glimpsed in today's modern India, making it perfectly easy to identify with.it is this timelessness of R.K.Narayan's stories that make them transcend to greatness.
This timelessness of his stories is partly due to the timelessness of India; her capacity to observe the ancient rules while at the same time adapting and absorbing the modern to create a uniqueness unlike any other.
"All right , I will live in this ," she said, choosing the lesser charity.This book is about the struggle of a woman who dared not speak a word against her husband.
It is about a woman who struggled hard to unshackle herself from the society which owned her in every possible way, but yet returned to its fold for the sake of her children.
It is about modernity without which India as a society would have never moved forward.
It is a pity that some entitled women distort the true meaning of feminism.
Well, I had a lot of expectations from this book having read an excerpt from an omnibus years ago.
It gave me the impression that the book was a poignant tale about a woman fighting to be heard in the male-dominated pre-Independence India.
This is not the story of a woman who tried to challenge the social norms, but rather the story of a typical Indian woman who tries time and again to stand up for what she thinks is right but whose courage buckles under the tremendous pressure from a society which regards a woman as an object of pleasure, a vulnerable, utterly dependent creature who needs to be confined within the four walls of her 'home' for her own security.
A poignant story of a women , who felt very dependent of the male dominated society.
Women are to be given food and shelter and cajole them every time to keep up the harmony and retain peace in the house.
Savithri is the very loveable wife to her husband.
He cajoles her calling pet and all sort of stuffs , but yet fails to keep up her mind in peace.
Finally making up his mind, he came a day after to his house knowing her come back.
The guest characters Ponni and her husband brought more charm to the story.
This book is one of best examples of how RKN sir's novels can be so realistic.Savithri unable to bea
Reading RK Narayan makes me miss my childhood.
The picture he paints of people and places are like that of your neighbours or those whom you have seen and known all the time.
The dark room is a really light read yet the rich characters and the poignant story lingers on.
I feel like his characters are so real-life that they could just come put of the books for you to see and feel them right in front of you.
He makes you laugh and cry, both at the same time.
His simple yet classic writing is a benchmark writers in India need to follow, now!
The condition of women, mainly, "housewives" has not changed much. Despite the story being set in 1935, any person in Modern India would identify with the condition of women depicted in the story. You can't help but sympathize with Savitri, on whom all the work-load of the household is bestowed.Adding to the already miserable and powerless life, her husband Ramani spends his nights in his office with Shanta Bai, whom he has taken a liking to. A must read for any Feminist and for all these who just have a blind-eye to the condition of housewives in India.
