https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99495.De_c_mo_un_rey_perdi_Francia
Thanks goodness that France had the rather garrulous Cardinal Perigord during the reign of the tragic King Jean II. Especially since the clueless King never managed to do anything right during the beginning decades of The Hundred Years War.
This pompous and opinionated bore and vicious gossip relates the events since the start of the Hundred Years' War, and he rants about King John (Jean) II who is currently on the throne.
As he criticises others, his own defects are revealed.The cardinal is however, in between gossip, able to clearly describe the horrendous devastation of the plague as well as the raids and pillaging by the Black Prince and Lancaster (John of Gaunt).
I am fascinated by the Hundred Years' War and I love Maurice Druon's writing, his subtle humour and irony, but I would not like to be a hapless passenger in the cardinal's palanquin and were I to be invited I might also be prone to sickness in palanquins.
El fin de la saga. Me dio un poco de tristeza terminarla, amo esta saga. Aunque de todos los libros fue el que me gusto menos. Aunque es una saga que recomiendo mucho, es bueno que el que la lea tenga conocimientos vagos de historia, que si de como son las sucesiones, como eran los estados antes (que si navarra, castilla, etc) para poderla disfrutar mejor, porque sino habrá cosas que no entenderá, o le costara.
Après la malédiction des trépas rapides, la malédiction de la médiocrité.  “After the curse of the sudden deaths, the curse of mediocrity.” This observation sums up the book’s plotline, told by the narrator, the Cardinal Talleyrand-Périgord, a Frenchman with sharp wits, a sharper tongue and a temperament that’d have made him more comfortable in the military orders than as Papal legate in charge of witnessing—and trying unsuccessfully to prevent—the disintegration of the kingdom he loves, courte
“After the curse of the sudden deaths, the curse of mediocrity.” This observation sums up the book’s plotline, told by the narrator, the Cardinal Talleyrand-Périgord, a Frenchman with sharp wits, a sharper tongue and a temperament that’d have made him more comfortable in the military orders than as Papal legate in charge of witnessing—and trying unsuccessfully to prevent—the disintegration of the kingdom he loves, courtesy of the latest of the long line of rois maudits to come into power since the passing away of ruthless yet efficient King Philip the Fair.It’s in the last days of the rule of the latter’s Valois grand-nephew, Jean II, that the narrative starts, with the elderly but still lucid Cardinal en route to fulfilling his latest mission on behalf of the Church, and in-between cursing the atrocious country roads and the ailments of age, he recounts to his secretary and nephew the events of the past years since the reign of Philippe VI of Valois, near the time of the defeat at Crécy, when the now widowed king is refused by the courts the funds to counter this humiliation by striking back at the English.

The most boring of the 7 books...
Por alguna razón que desconozco, este libro rompe con el estilo marcado en los seis tomos anteriores.
También desconozco por qué unir este libro a la saga de Los reyes malditos.
Para mi, el autor le da fin de manera correcta a la saga en el libro 6 (quizá le hizo falta un epílogo más largo y narrar lo que sucedió después).Si veo este libro como una obra separada de la serie de Los reyes malditos, podría decir que funciona y que se justifica.
Digo, no es un mal libro, pero no llega la narración a la altura de cualquiera de los seis pasados.
Creo que después de sus antecesores, libros interesantes, llenos de intriga, de maldad, de personajes fuertes en la historia de Francia, este último volumen careció de la fuerza necesaria para cerrar el ciclo de Los Reyes Malditos.De cómo un rey perdió Francia narra la historia de Juan II, el rey quién fue derrotado por el Príncipe Eduardo de Gales, allá por 1350.
Para mí fue complicado porque me costó creer en la objetividad de los personajes y sus acciones.
Éste libro presenta una narrativa diferente a sus predecesores, no está tan lleno de intriga, batallas y personajes interesantes, aún así lo disfruté porque me hizo reflexionar respecto al peligro que representa para una nación un líder tonto y vanidoso rodeado de personajes egoístas. Es una lectura rápida y entretenida.
Quand Maurice Druon perd ses lecteurs...I liked all the previous books in the series, especially the book six.
Clearly Maurice Druon wanted to try a new narration form, but why he adapted the worst form possible is above my understanding.
The story of king Jean II's disastrous ruling is told by a cardinal, a papal legate, during his long journey across France.
Even though the historical events he tells about are interesting, this endless droning monologue format makes the story just as exciting for the reader as the slow and boring voyage must have been entertaining for the cardinal.
Review disponível em breve.
Abandon p. 108. Impossible de rentrer dans cet ultime tome qui se ressemble en rien au tome précédent. Il s'agit d'un long monologue d'un personnage qu'on n'avait encore pas croisé jusque là. Je ne doute pas que les évènements qu'il relate à son neveu sont intéressants mais la forme du récit m'ennuie profondément.
Druon attempts to finish off (again) his 'The Accursed Kings' series with a novel that falls as flat as Jean II's attempt to flex his muscle across Western Europe.
Told in a letter-type format, the novel follows some of France's key events that led to Jean II pushing his military might up against England and its allied kingdoms.
While the entire series has hinted at this drunken power of French kings, it is in this novel that the ultimate price is paid and Jean II leads his men into the trap that ultimately pushes them to the brink and leaves England as the European superpower, at least in its western kingdoms.
Hola, bueno efectivamente es la historia de como el Rey Juan II de Francia libra una batalla contra 
La serie completa es muy buena, inspiró la intriga política y palaciega de GRRM en "Canción de Hielo y Fuego" y hace que uno reconozca a ciertos personajes en sus contrapartes históricas, retratadas por Druon a lo largo de siete libros.
Si bien lo mejor de la saga se puede ver en la primera mitad, sobre todo en el ascenso de Felipe V al trono de Francia por encima de su sobrina Juana, el epílogo que representa este séptimo libro condensa los conflictos y traiciones de los anteriores seis, desde el relato en primera persona del cardenal de Périgord durante la Guerra de los Cien Años y los dos cautiverios del rey Juan II.
En esta ocasión, Druon cambia de narrador, entiendo que lo haga para dar un panorama más general del asunto, sin embargo, a veces resulta un poco tedioso. Concuerdo con la mayoría que piensa que la saga debió terminar con el libro VI; en este libro el único personaje que apareció en los anteriores es el rey Eduardo y ya no se toca ni por errorla maldición de los templarios.
La historia del rey Juan II y cómo su mal carácter, falta de control sobre sí mismo, vanidoso y cruel que se lanza a una batalla contra Inglaterra mientras su país trata de sobrevivir los estragos de la peste, el hambre y una guerra que solo traerá más miseria y pobreza extrema.Fue un libro que tuve que brincarme hojas y odio hacer eso , porque significa que de plano me ha dejado de interesar y quiero acabarlo de una vez.
Son muy recomendables los primeros libros porque las intrigas y conspiraciones entre parentela son más seguidas e interesantes.
The seventh instalment of the series is in some degrees a separate stories from the other sixes. A new set of characters, less characters development and in my opinion a weaker work. Though it is better than 2 stars, it is less than 3. I wish I had the choice of 2.5.
Abandonado. La diferencia con los otros 6 libros es abismal. Menudo aburrimiento.
Неожиданный и совершенно иной манер повествования в заключительной книге, позволил взглянуть на всю серию не так однозначно, как по прошествии первых 6-ти книг... прекрасное окончание серии)
Un rege necunoscut mie înainte de a citi cartea.
Tous maudits jusqu'à la treizième génération de vos races!" Alas, with its seventh installment the series seems to have shared the curse Jacques de Molay put on the Capétiens… I have never been so disappointed as with this volume.
Maybe ten years is a long time to wait to write a sequel to a series?
The thing is, it left me with the bitter taste of the tremendous disappointment; I venture to suggest readers of the series to avoid this one of do it at their own peril!
The book is narrated by cardinal Talleyrand-Périgord.
The narration is a long, excruciatingly boring monologue that, I confess, I couldn’t read more than a couple of pages.
I have read it is wise to leave unfinished a book or a movie you do not like, life is too short to drink bad wine and all that jazz.
I am neither English nor French, so the Hundred Years War is not something I know a lot about.
I was fine with this for about 20 pages, when I started asking myself, when is the story going to catch up?
Well, 200 pages later, when the Cardinal gets involved in the battle of Poitiers.
You know it ends bad, for the French, but you want to keep reading.
Само две неща ще кажа тук.1.
От чисто любопитство, проверих рецензии на други хора, за тази книга, по простата причина, че отново се оставих на така любимия повик, да грабвам от рафтовете на библиотеката, книга, за която не съм чувала нищо преди.
За мен той, чисто и просто, е един типичен представител на светата католическа църква през 14 век.
някак си, като почти всички описани лица и той не може да избяга от човешките страсти и слабости.
Аз просто се чудя, защо толкова много хора му се възхищават.
Научих много неща, за конкретни събития и съм страхотно благодарна, както винаги!
Имам голям грях към поредицата "Прокълнатите крале" - страшно ми хареса, а след последната книга се оказа, че заради взискателност, читателско мрънкане и недоволство и заради продължително и преъсвано във времето четене, не съм дал повече от четири звезди на нито една от книгите.
От само 3 и 4 звезди излиза, че книжките са приятни, някои доста увлекателни и въобще се подминава очевидната истина, че историята в тях е пълнокръвна, изпълнена с обрати, несигурност и вълнение.
I had expected that this, the final volume in Maurice Druon's panoramic tale of the Capet monarchy in France, would be like the others.
It has the same outraged narration of the collosal egos and catastrophic failures of statecraft that led JRR Martin to describe the series as "the original Game of Thrones".
I never managed to get my head around this massive change of style, or to relate it to the rest of the series.
But it didn't satisfy the Pavolvian expectation from the previous books for dialogue, direct action and wry Gallic philosophical musings from the narrator
This is the 7th in the series The Accursed Kings, and is only now available in English.
It is written in an entirely different style to its predecessors.This time you are a fly in Cardinal Perigord's palanquin, or in the air above him as he rides or walks talking to his nephews or servants as he travels to Metz after the Battle of Poiters.
It is fascinating as it is not straight dialogue but chatty, and often catty, gossip, observation and advice with constant asides, mainly to staff.This book is highly entertaining, even if you are familiar with the history that it is from.Highly recommended
C'est assez rare que je ne finisse pas un livre, mais ça a été le cas avec "Quand un roi perd la France".
Je ne sais pas, la série s'essoufflait légèrement depuis quelques tomes j'imagine.
Et je ne pouvais pas me défendre du sentiment qu'il valait mieux interrompre la série, après la mort de certaines personnages clés, quand de l'aveu même de l'auteur à la fin du tome précédent, il est difficile de continuer.
Quoi qu'il en soit, je garde un très bon souvenir des six premiers tomes.
Ne pas avoir fini le septième ne peut qu'améliorer ce souvenir.
Este libro me parece más una crónica histórica que una novela de ficción histórica, siento que desfasa un poco de los demás libros, y por eso puede volverse aburrido, pero no menos valioso. Esta es una de las mejores sagas que he leído y por la cual me enamoré de la ficción histórica, en primer lugar. Es interesante leer cómo terminó la dinastía y la era de los Capeto y los Valois, una de las dinastías más escandalosas de la realeza (y yo que no superaba a los Tudor y a los Borgia). Me declaro fan de Maurice Druon.
The end of this fantastic series of historical novels about the kings and rulers of 14th century France. This final novel is told through the eyes of a French Cardinal. Although I have given it 5 stars it is the weakest of the series by virtue of the narrator distancing the reader a little from the action, whereas in all the other books the reader is in the middle of the action. The other books really deserve 6 stars. Thoroughly enjoyable and gripping nevertheless. Thus ends probably the greatest historical fiction series I have ever read.
