https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/787895.Audition
The best book on acting I have ever read, and also full of great insights into human psychology.
This is a book I have bought many times over. I keep lending it to people and never getting it back.I use this book to remind me of what goes into good drama.Here is a link to a blog entry that I wrote about this book:http://lcmccabe.blogspot.com/2006/12/...
The BEST Acting book I've ever read! I refer to this book constantly.
It is, by far, the best book on acting I've ever read.It is filled with fantastic advice--some of it kind of obvious, much of it I've already been following for years, but still several good reminders of how to audition well.
I wasted nearly half a pen re-highlighting this book (my yellow highlighter from 10+ years ago had almost completely disappeared on these yellowing pages), there's just that much good advice within.
Great read. Super insightful and extremely helpful. Any actor subjecting themselves to the madness of theater should read this.
A must read for anyone who aspires to be an actor.
Definitely read this if you want to do anything in the field of drama. Or if you like philosophy. Or if you like weird, random stories about Barbra Streisand.
Good tips. Direct, no bullshit advices.Every actor or director should read once.a bit boring though. Was really hard to read more than 20 pages a day.
Shurtleff takes you into the audition scene and gives you real life examples of what to do and what not to do.
In this guidepost, it talks about being involved in the moment, which can lead to new discoveries about other characters, themselves, the scene, or the show as a whole.
It explains that the more discoveries the actor makes in a scene, the better it will be.
I recommend this book to actors, directors, and anyone involved in the show-biz, but it can be useful in real life as well.
Some of the advice in this book is particularly useful for actors auditioning for scripted plays, but I still found a lot of useful advice for acting in improvised scenes as well.The core of the book sets forth the 12 "guideposts" for reading a script in an audition.
Though I do not do script readings myself, these guideposts can still be useful when doing improv scenes.
When practicing improv, I could focus on a particular guidepost to develop my ability in that arena.
Hopefully, this would eventually lead to performing in accordance with all of the guideposts after practicing enough.
Not just for actors! While aimed at actors who need knowledge or help with auditions, it is a lifetime's worth of good anecdotes from a big deal insider, told with the force and tenderness of a relative who knows you can make it, but is not sure your passion for the field will survive all the hoops. It's about how to present yourself to people who will judge you in moments, how to be pragmatic, authentic to yourself and yet totally surprise them into thinking well and memorably of you--even if you don't end up getting that particular role.
Lots of valuable information. Best excerpt for me .. is to give an ENTIRE range of who you are in an audition. An audition is NOT the performance.This rang very true for me. An audition is the chance to show the auditor WHO you are. Your personality.. and all facets of it. This book is a staple for any serious actor & with each new set of sides I receive.. I touch base with my highlighted parts and get renewed :)
The absolute must read for actors. If you want to have successful auditions you have to get this book for yourself and read it a few times. Known by all in the business as the "bible" on how to audition and very good just to go deeper into characters after you've been cast in a play.
I thought this would be cheesy, but damned if it's not really, really helpful.
Excellent, pragmatic advice for scene study/monologues/auditions. Somewhat antiquated. A useful resource for students and teachers of Theatre.
As a Theatre major, this book has done more than just open my eyes when it came to auditioning. This book is very helpful for actors. Highly recommend it.
The best book on the topic of acting ever written. I have used it countless times, both as a teaching tool and as a reference for myself. MUST READ if you want to get better at getting cast.
Use it in my acting classes. It is great for beginning actors and experienced actors alike. Easy to understand and apply as an actor.
Excellent book! It helps teach much more than auditioning, it also teaches exploring and approaching scenes. Excellent for anyone who is into acting if even a little, it'll help you out!
What is art, after all, but a form of controlled insanity.Regardless, it is certainly the case that we are all actors in some capacity, the most oblivious of whom—normal people—are called by documentarians “social actors,” or those who mill around believing “acting” is something done on stages and movie sets, separate from real life.
We just need to reincorporate* this externalized capacity; Jung called it “eating the shadow.” We can become what we are only through becoming other than what we are.This book is not about these things, of course, but how boring would a book review be if it simply summarized the covered material?
Golden advice from a casting director on how to pass a Broadway acting audition. Beautifully written. Grounded in experience and illustration of point. The psychology at play is fascinating for its relevance, applicable beyond the arts. Self-help genre, even. Thankfully, published in 1979, Shurtleff was writing directly for actors and unaware of the cross-appeal. That is part of the magic. To act is to master the manipulation of social dynamics. The skill of passing an audition involves manipulating these dynamics under intense pressure to achieve a successful outcome. Basically, everyone could benefit from the advice contained in this book.
From Screen, Stage, to Life, Michael Shurtleff was an American Actor and a Big Force in the casting world. His experiences took him very far in his career in life as a casting director. "Audition: Everything an Actor needs to know to get the part" is just that, showing us the step by step process of how to make sure we nail that next actor's audition.
Some very interesting insights into acting and how to help young actors. But it feels formulaic and I worry that strict adherence to these guidelines would lead to performers that are too caught up in their heads. I also don't trust anyone who calls O'Neill "artless." He lost me after that.
A must-read for everyone even remotely involved in acting, writing, or who is in the business of understanding people. Shurtleff gives perspective and a suite of tools for bringing characters to life that are invaluable.
"Humorless acting is the dreariest kind; it's the hallmark of soap opera performing- and even there humor is likely to creep in, however half-heartedly and apologetically."
Had to read this for my acting elective. It did what it set out to accomplish on the cover. 4 stars.
This book is like a fountain of knowledge! After reading this I feel more confident to be able to go into cold reads and auditions with strong acting choices.
My acting bible
Every actor NEEDS to read this book.
It's a very interesting book but I can only read the preview of the book and not the whole book.
