https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34463.Seven_Japanese_Tales
Great book, beautiful writing, deceptive in its simplicity. Quite inspiring. Read for my 2016 reading challenge: #6. A book translated to English (or from English into your first language)Thank you Steelwhisper for the rec.
Funny, the things that serve as fluttering markers to our memories.I'm reading these out of order to the book layout because I wanted to see the chronological progression in themes and style relating it back to history.
"Aguri" 1922Uses a courtesan tale to platform new leisure activities of travel and places the characters in this tension of Western modernity withering Japanese traditions."A Blind Man's Tale" 1931The oblique critique of Emperor Taisho during early Showa years is particularly interesting."A Portrait of Shunkin" 1933To Be Reread"The Bridge of Dreams" 1959I was profoundly surprised at the publication date of this work.
The sexualized and pathologized interactions reflecting early Showa tension.
The tale is very short (around 10 pages) and to me it felt as it ended too soon, I would have liked a more linear structure, as I am not such a fan of open-ended stories.The Bridge of Dreams (1959) – 2*This is the story of a weird and unhealthy relationship between a man, his son, and the stepmother.
And I was not totally convinced, although I liked the way the character talks directly to the reader at the end...Aguri (1922) – 1*This was probably the story I liked the least, it is about another sickly relation between a man and a very young girl who seems to be a sort of prostitute.
He was part of the 1920's Tokyo gang that was obsessed with the West that was very fashionable among the literary and young set at the time.
But when the big earthquake hit Tokyo in the early 20's, he became torn between the bright lights of the West and hardcore Japanese tradition.
And basically all his books deal with this unusual relationship between the West and the East.
And Tanizaki obsesses over the fetish aspect of the sexual act as well as making interesting insights into a culture that was changing - and Tanizaki's fears or obsessions dealing with the change of Japanese culture.
If love is a puzzle to be resolved then the first object of desire has be the mother.
I have been preoccupied for some time now with a simple and innocent question: can search for a lover be a return back to the mother?
Can you, in purity, write an ideal one-person love story where the other is always absent?
What starts as a need to compare the new mother with the memories of the old turns into an awakening of a new desire, which starts with tiny pleasures like suckling from her breast.
You fuckers ever stayed up late watching weird Japanese horror movies you found at Blockbuster as a teenager?
Can you remember the first time you saw really intense Japanese porn, not necessarily the kind with tentacles but where there's something just...
wrong?
If Tanizaki is any indicator, turns out shit has been weird for a long time.
Incest, bondage, fetishism, they've all been there, it's just that now we have the Internet.
And it's not that Tanizaki's stories are just weird or kinky or whatever.
They're intense, poetic, and harrowing, much like Tanizaki's longer-form work.


مقطع من قصة الواشم أو الوشم ):[في صباح مشرق من بداية فصل الربيع، كانت القوارب تجري في النهر صعودًا وهبوطًا، وتحدث مجاديفها صخباً في ذلك الصباح الهادئ، بينما كانت أسطح القرميد تلمع في الشمس والضباب بدأ ينخفض رقيقًا فوق الأشرعة البيضاء، في لحظات النسيم الباكر. وأخيرًا، وضع سيكيشي فرشاته ونظر إلى وشم العنكبوت. كان هذا النوع من الفن أرقى جهدًا في حياته. والآن بعد أن إنتهى منه، صار قلبه منهك المشاعر. وبعد قليل، تردد صوت سيكيتش مرتعشاً عبر جدران الغرفة: " لأجعلك جميلةً حقاً، صببت روحي في هذا الوشم. وا
وبعد سنوات ظهرت الفتاة التي كانت تعمل في مهنة الرقص وتسلية الناس، وطرقت بابه وهي تحمل طردًا من أحد أصدقائه.
حاول الوشّام إقناعها وعرض عليها بعض صور الاميرات الصينيات الجميلات وقال لها سأصنع منك "امرأة جميلة حقًا" لكنها كانت خائفة، وأرادت الخروج من المنزل لكنه إستطاع تخديرها.وبعد أن أكمل رسم امرأة العنكبوت السوداء على ظهرها إستفاقت الفتاة وكأن هناك عنكبوتاً حيًّا يتحرك في ظهرها وطلبت من أنه ترى الوشم لكنه طلب منها أن تستحم أولاً لتبرق الألوان، وبعد أن إغتسلت بالماء الساخن شعرت بالألم.
"ثم استدارت قليلاً وكشفت ثوبها الواسع الفضفاض"الكيمونو" وفي الأثناء تسللت أشعة الشمس وأزالت الوشم المصوّر على ظهرها، وتلاشت أنثى العنكبوت في شعلة من النيران.
Japanese culture, when compared to what's generally passed off as Western culture, seems to be a little off.
The result is a collection of tales which embrace the uncanny and unusual as well as the traditional, the setting for most of the stories gathered here.
Some stories are short - the shortest (and earliest, from 1910) details a woman forcibly tattooed in a design which reveals her darkest nature, which she embraces.
But if you bypass them you'll miss a look at the discordant parts of nature which seem to be examined so well by Japanese authors, none more accomplished than Tanizaki.
His appreciation of the West at the time really shines through in a couple of his works, which may make it a more familiar read for those unacquainted with Japanese works in general.Tanizaki seems to be thoroughly renown for the prominence of sexual perversion in his works.
However, a lot of what was written in the stories I have witnessed in my association with Japanese people or during my stays in Japan.
I think that's one of the crucial things that make an author like Tanizaki one of the Japanese greats.Certainly enjoyed his depiction of scenery and iconic objects throughout his stories, really makes me miss Japan.
I love this collection even though I didn't give it five stars.
Some of the stories are stronger than others, which holds it back from reaching the kind of perfection other stories hint at.It's a collection about what it means to be Japanese, which may be a turn off for many.
It's very accessible, I thought.
Stories about creation and destruction, about art and life, about love and Death.
These are stories about life, told with great seriousness but also great humor.
This was my first look into Tanizaki but I've been very eager to get my hands on more.Highly recommended.
Bez ikakvih metaforičnih značenja, bez i malo kitnjastosti i ulepšavanja svojstvene ogromnoj većini pisaca, konkretne, gotovo bezobrazno jednostavne i razumljive rečenice, grade svaku od sedam prelepih priča ove zbirke. Staloženost ritma pisanja jednako prisutna bilo da pripoveda najobičnije dane u životu svojih junaka, bilo da se bavi različitim osetljivim temama. Savršena mirnoća u pisanju me očarala.https://bezimenaknjizevnazadruga.word...
I'm a huge fan of these short stories. You can go back and re-think about them over and over. The alarming fixations of his characters - some neuorotic, some manipulative - keep you riveted, even while you're appalled. Excruciating studies of the dark and confusing sides of humanity.If you've not read Tanizaki before, I'd suggest not beginning with the novella that is included in this volume. Take on the masterful, shorter stories first, like "The Tatooer." Once you've got the hang of Tanizaki, go back to the novella - it's also great, just takes more patience.
1. A Portrait of Shunkin: 4 starsMy thoughts:- Complexity of people and relationships- Who are we to contemplate whether a relationship is healthy- Boundary of consensual and obsession blurred- Yet the 2 members involved are ok so is it right or not?- Questions where obsession crosses the boundary- Yet is it wrong??????- Also, is Sasuke insane, obsessed, devoted, in love, or a saint?- Is Shunkin cruel, sadistic, cold, harsh, misunderstood, narcissistic, or angry?- Maybe these are questions that
The bridge of Dreams: 4 starsMy thoughts:- holy shit!- again the line between motherly/familial love and incest blurred- Is the man truly manipulated by his family to have an obsession towards his mother or did it come from him?- very perverse yet so hooked to this little story4.
A Blind Man's Tale: 4 stars- Historical tale that is so sad- very dark- makes you realize how much familial bounds have changed- or have they????- willpower of women and how it increases their beauty is shown here- Also shows how the behaviour of one generation doesn't necessarily show itself in the nextOverall, I enjoyed this short story collection and will definitely be continuing to read from Junichiro Tanizaki.
Quote:“The cold winter rains and the snowOnly fall now and then—But because of you, my tearsAre falling constantly.”“Even though you love,Do not let your love be known.But do not forgetWhile you pretend you do not love.”Review:Ever since I read Tanizaki’s beautiful novel, “Naomi,” a novel he wrote when he was 39, I’ve been hooked to his bizarre brand of Japanese beauty.
It’s quite pleasing to know that a writer of Tanizaki’s caliber is not born but made over several years of painstaking practice.
This is borne by the fact that the stories he wrote in his 20s and 30s feel unfinished, undeveloped, unremarkable.
Tanizaki’s genius, I realize, was developed over time, and is in fact the genius of age, of having lived through so much.
Tanizaki wrote about controversial and taboo subject matters (sadism, masochism, incest...) like a boss. The characters here - mostly are crazy, losing their friggin' mind but you can totally relate to them. At some points the story get sick and creepy but the prose itself is marble-like perfection and really haunting.My personal favourite are A Portrait of Shunkin and The Tattooer. Strange but believable and powerful. Anyway, the name Sasuke seems to mean "emo" in Japanese. Just kidding.
At first I was struck by the firm nobility-fetishizing bend to these stories, but upon finishing the book and reading more I'm realizing that some stories may have been using that voice ironically to call out the tragedy of rigid social order. Still not sure about that, but the writing is great and the sexual pathology is arrestingly incestuous and footy.
A great book. Tales that all tell of an aspect of human nature. I like the way Tanizaki writes, the flow of the words, the pattern of speech.I had higher hopes for The Tattooer but The Blind Man's Tale was better than I hoped.  A sad story of a womans fate by the unseeing eyes of her servant. In the era of wars womenwere little more than beautiful prizes.
one of my 15 choices for literary masterpieces for sff lovers; the essence of the author
LOVE Tanizaki. For the American reader: this will be a different style of storytelling for you. Beautiful and a bit bizarre.
Favorite stories; A Portrait of Shunkin, The Bridge of Dreams and A Blind Man's Tale.
They stand alone as examples of the short story whatever there relation to transitions in Japanese literature from the pre-World War II era into the middle of the 20th century.The Seven Japanese Tales begin and end with long stories with blindness at their center.
My sense is that Tanizaki was initially interested in writing modern stories rather than traditional ones.
By the end of the tales here collected this would have been a completed exercise for him and for Japanese literature.
From that point of view the value in these stories is how well they stand absent any question of the traditional verses the modern or Japan versus the west.
"A Blind Man's Tale" is a very long story within a story during the Warring States Period; a blind man who works as a masseur is telling a traveler his role in serving the Lady Oichi, Lord Nobunaga's younger sister.
Finally, I read "The Tattooer", supposedly the best erotic story in "Seven Japanese Tales." It's about a skilled tattooer who actually takes pleasure in tormenting his clients with the needles as he creates the tattoos they came to him for.
But what makes it so good is that Tanizaki draws from a published biography, quoting it at times, and then adding more illustrative writing to balance out the long story.
I don’t even know if it’s based on a true story or not, but the writing is very strong and I guess I don’t really care.Of the shorter stories, “Terror” was the most memorable to me.I know I will be reading a long of his novels in the next few months because I bought it recently, and I am hoping that since it was written in the 1930s and the best of this collection happen in the 1930s it will be good.
I must confess that I'm not too familiar with a bit older Japanese literature.
I have mainly read modern Murakami and all of his novels I have liked a lot.
This was a completely different reading experience.Tanizaki is a recognized and valued author so most likely my evaluation is not literally valid.
But I didn't like these short stories too much.
Better knowledge on Japanese culture would perhaps have helped a little bit.
Perhaps not.These stories were somehow "slow" in a manner I didn't find interesting.
I'm not sure if I shall read a novel from Tanizaki after this trial.
Cuando compre el libro me imaginé que su contenido era muy diferente a lo que encontré. Al leer los diferentes cuentos, uno a uno, entendí el contexto y la época en el que fue escrito. Es simple y sencillo, pero siento que las diferencias culturales no me dejaron entenderlo en su totalidad. No es de mi favoritos. No lo recomendaría, pero hay que leer de todo un poco para saber que te gusta y que no!
Una grata sorpresa, bellísimo, siete cuentos que entre si son muy diferentes, pero mantiene el estilo de llevarte rápidamente al centro de la historia y te deja el suspenso de estar esperando cómo se resuelve. Ninguno de alguna forma tradicional, ni siquiera esperada, por lo que cada cuento no es muy difícil de no leerlo de corrido.Buena experiencia para acercarse al trabajo de Tanizaki!!
Me llamó la atención que varios personajes de estos cuentos son ciegos y con esta condición les confiere una especie de atributo o virtud, igual que Proust, hace énfasis en detalles muy particulares de los recuerdos de la infancia (dato curioso: ambos son Cáncer), creo que los 7 cuentos tienen como personaje central a una mujer, siempre descrita con fervor y erotismo. Aunque sólo me gustaron 2 de estos cuentos, me gustaron mucho, así que le daré otra oportunidad a Tanizaki
I'm not a big fan of this book. It was a little bit boring and repetitive, anyways, I can recognize its value. Tanizaki's approach to aesthetics, the feminine figure and the Japanese culture is very rich and interesting.
