https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/883196.The_Complete_Poems_of_Dorothy_Parker
Lilacs blossom just as sweetNow my heart is shattered.if I bowled it down the street,who's to say it
CodaDorothy ParkerThere’s little in taking or giving, There’s little in water or wine;This living, this living, this living Was never a project of mine.Oh, hard is the struggle, and sparse is The gain of the one at the top,For art is a form of catharsis, And love is a permanent flop,And work is the province of cattle, And rest’s for a clam in a shell,So I’m thinking of throwing the battle— Would you kindly direct me to hell?

and then i started reading the poems, and they were overwhelmingly about how love sucks and it makes her want to kill herself.
upon reaching the "acceptance" stage, i created a did-not-finish shelf on goodreads.and then today, giving it one more chance, i found a non-rhyming poem at the end of death and taxes that i really liked.
but i'm going to try to finish it, because i really love some of her poems, and it has *just* enough merit for me.my favorites were "Of A Woman, Dead Young", the turning point of the book for me, and also "Poem in the American Manner", a cutting, surprisingly relevant commentary on the ignorance-is-bliss state of mind many of today's SuperPatriots espouse.
Some really fantastic poems, and some really horrid ones.
I could've done without the poems based purely on hate , which she very accurately calls "hymns of hate." There is a (hateful) poem on: (1) husbands (2) men (3) wives (4) women (5) actors (6) actresses (7) bohemians (8) summer resorts and (9) books.
There are other hate poems on other topics as well.
HATE!) And coming from someone who enjoys a good dose of negativity and pessimism, this is saying a lot.I did, however, enjoy the poems that exposed the sad reality of the social mores of her time, such as the inferior status conferred upon women.
Dorothy Parker's poems really powerfully evoke the time and place she lived in. It's amazing that she was so effectively able to squeeze it all in there but through her language and her attitude you can really feel Jazz Age New York. Not only is this collection a brilliantly executed time capsule, it's also filled with beautiful and humorous poems that pop and sizzle with Parker's charming and witty character.
Masson explains that Parker's writing was a "method of self-defense," to cope with a world that she "didn't like." I can certainly see this -- Parker is filled with so much wit, and promise and potential, but also so much cynicism and despair.
Here Parker deals with some autobiographical elements and uses her wit and humor it seems to create a shield.
This wearing out of themes and forms is especially true of her unpublished poems, and namely her "Hymns of Hate." She uses humor to express a "hate" toward women, men, actors, actresses, books, parties, you name it.
Love, Love, Love, Love, Love this collection of poetry! Adore and the story how I stumbled upon it is awesome. Will post tomorrow and it's really special to me after reading   by Ellen MeisterAn absolute gem!!
What an amazing woman! She was so ahead of her time. She seemed to have suffered so much but was courageous enough to share her pain through laughter and her work. Imagine a white woman of her time leaving everything to MLK. Amazing! This was a good sampling of her poems they seem to get better as she gets older. I just wish that this book contained some of her short stories. My students enjoyed and connected with the poems so well worth the read.
There's little in taking or giving,There's little in water or wine;This living, this living, this livingWas never a project of mine.Oh, hard is the struggle, and sparse isThe gain of the one at the top,For art is a form of catharsis,And love is a permanent flop,And work is the province of cattle,And rest's for a clam in a shell,So I'm thinking of throwing the battle-Would you kindly direct me to hell?Funny.
Who doesn't love Dorothy Parker? My favorite Dorothy Parker quote "Curiosity is the cure for boredom. There is no cure for curiosity."Read her, while sipping a martini, for an evening of complete gigglement.
I think the thing that struck me most about Parkers' poems are her descriptions of certain types of people. Though written many years ago, they apply to people today just as well. Wit doesn't age, it seems.
I adore Dorothy Parker, my misanthropic soul mate, who is super witty and never dull. This book is always close by, as I read her poems over and over again.Try "Inscription for the Ceiling of a Bedroom."
That book that has folded corners and a creased cover, a soul of its own and an owner's name written in ink on the first page. Mine all mine!
Really a 3.8
400 pages of bitterness eroded my enjoyment.
IntroductionSuggestions for Further ReadingChronologyA Note on the TextEnough Rope (1926)--Threnody--The Small Hours--The False Friends--The Trifler--A Very Short Song--A Well-Worn Story--Convalescent--The Dark Girl's Rhyme--Epitaph--Light of Love--Wail--The Satin Dress--Somebody's Song--Anecdote--Braggart--Epitaph for a Darling Lady--To a Much Too Unfortunate Lady--Paths--Hearthside--The New Love--Rainy Night--For a Sad Lady--Recurrence--Story of Mrs. W------The Dramatists--August--The White Lady--I Know I Have Been Happiest--Testament--"I Shall Come Back"--Condolence--The Immortals--A Portrait--Portrait of the Artist--Chant for Dark Hours--Unfortunate Coincidence--Verse Reporting Late Arrival at a Conclusion--Inventory--Now at Liberty--Comment--Plea--Pattern--De Profundis--They Part--Ballade of a Great Weariness--Résumé--Renunciation--Day-Dreams--The Veteran--Prophetic Soul--Verse for a Certain Dog--Folk Tune--Godspeed--Song of Perfect Propriety--Social Note--One Perfect Rose--Ballade at Thirty-Five--The Thin Edge--Spring Song--Love Song--Indian Summer--Philosophy--For an Unknown Lady--The Leal--Finis--Words of Comfort to Be Scratched on a Mirror--Men--News Item--Song of One of the Girls--Lullaby--Faut de Mieux--Roundel--A Certain Lady--Observation--Symptom Recital--Rondeau Redoublé--Autobiography--The Choice--Ballade of Big Plans--General Review of the Sex Situation--Inscription for the Ceiling of a Bedroom--Pictures in the Smoke--Biographies--Nocturne--Interview--Song in a Minor Key--Experience--Neither Bloody nor Bowed--The Burned Child--Fighting WordsSunset Gun (1928)--Godmother--Partial Comfort--The Red Dress--Victoria--The Counsellor--Parable for a Certain Virgin--Bric-à-Brac--Interior--Reuben's Children--For R.
I wasn’t sure if they had been previously published at all—or were ever intended to be—but a little Google research shows that the vast majority of them had appeared in print (ugh).
It ALSO showed the person who originally rounded them up from all the various sources did a ton of editing (ugh).
And it ALSO showed that there was a lawsuit because Penguin flat-out stole the collection from that guy for inclusion in this book (ugh).Basically I wish I had just read her three standalone poetry collections instead.
Holy wow! I loved this collection. Dorothy Parker is the poet I didn't know was my verse writing kindred spirit. She doesn't leave you scratching your head. You can just imagine her amused at her own rhyme and bitter at whoever she turned her weapon on that day. This is poetry to me - pretty and witty ways of saying normal things
A lot of fun. Some of the references, and indeed a few of the attitudes, feel dated - the next edition will need to be annotated with details of some of the famous names, for example. However, much of the commentary on emotion was deeply recognisable to me and the wit still sparkles.
I can't imagine a better compilation of poetry! Dorothy Parker's acerbic wit was my close companion while reading this collection. She was hysterically dark (and accurate) when denoting her experience with relationships and I enjoyed it so very much!
Finally found a poetess I can proudly call one of my favourites. List includes: Shakespeare, Frost and Wilde.
why linger in the shadowy sadness?The red of that magical madnessand let her loves when she is dead,write this above her bones:"no more she lives to give us breadwho asked her only stones"
4.5 stars. Love her.
The only part I didn’t enjoy was the uncollected poems, except for the “Hate Song” series (which should’ve been a collection on its own)
Dorothy Parker is the queen of rant poetry and witty comebacks.
Men, women, actors, slackers; you name it, Parker bashes it in clever rhyme.
Though these complaints may seem superficial, her work is deeply introspective.
Themes of unworthy men, societal expectations, and death contemplations are presented with comical yet thought-provoking cynicism.
Parker has the power to make you laugh on the outside while pondering life’s injustices on the inside.Parker's sense of humor saves the reader (and likely the poet herself) from drowning in self-pity and the genuine agony of the demons Parker faced, resulting in the rise of a masterpiece from the ashes.
Though Dorothy lived nearly a century ago, it’s amazing how relevant her words remain.
Parker’s work is darkly beautiful.http://www.meganalms.com/book-blog
I'm very picky with poetry, but I loved Dorothy Parker!
These are the poems that I especially enjoyed by her:ENOUGH ROPE -The False Friends, A Very Short Song, Somebody's Song, Braggart, To a Much Too Unfortunately Lady, I Know I Have Been Happiest, A Portrait, Unfortunate Coincidence, Indian Summer, Faut De Mieux, Nocturne.SUNSET GUN-A Fairly Sad Tale, But Not Forgotten, Two Volume Novel, Coda.DEATH AND TAXES-The Danger of Writing Defiant Verse Sanctuary, Ballade of Unfortunate Mammals, Purposely Ungrammatical Love Song.NOT SO DEEP AS A WELL-autumn valentine POEMS UNCOLLECTED-Women: A Hate Song, Men: A Hate Song, Relatives: A Hate Song, Slackers: A Hate Song, Hymn of Hate: Bores, The Passionate Freudian to His Love, Song for the First of the Month, Fragment, Thoughts!, Fantasy!, Promise, "How Bold It Is", Triolet [1]!, Wanderlust, A Triolet!, Paean, And Oblige, Song of a Hopeful Heart.
Good times.Favourite poems in alphabetical order:"Absence""Ballade of a Not Insupportable Loss""Bohemia""Cherry White""Christmas, 1921""Day-Dreams""The Drab Heroine""Folk Tune""Hearthside""Hymn of Hate: Movies""Hymn of Hate: Parties""Hymn of Hate: Reformers""Idyl""Incurable""The Lady's Reward""The Little Old Lady In Lavender Silk""Love Song""Lullaby""Lyric""Oh Look, I Can Do It Too: Showing that Anyone Can Write Modernist Verse" ("Bacchanale" & "The Picture Gallery")"Ornithology for Beginners""Paean""The Passionate Freudian To His Love""Paths""Promise""Resume""Sanctuary""Solace""Song [2]""Song of Social Life in Hollywood""Song of the Conventions""Song of Wilderness""Symptom Recital""Testament""There Was One""Thoughts""To A Much Too Unfortunate Lady""To My Dog""Unfortunate Coincidence""The Veteran"
CondolenceThey hurried here as soon as you had died,Their faces damp with haste and sympathy,And pre
Went through this quite slowly.
I don't like Dorothy Parker as much as I think I should; there's something about her poetry - probably her combination of wit, invective, unrepentant self-regard and genuine insight - that reminds me at times of Catullus, at times of Morrissey.
This should make me adore her poetry, but I have a hard time directly relating to a lot of the subject matter (heartbreak isn't my thing) and the style (Cavafy is my favourite, afterall...) - the few passive poems ('interiors', 'sanctuary', 'penelope', 'midnight' etc) obviously therefore touch me more than the others, great though they are...
but really, her poetry is clever and diverting!
That's more than enough tbh.
Need to get her stories sometime.
