https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301456.Father_Brown_Stories
I'm pretty sure that this wasn't the edition of Father Brown stories that I read.Anyhow I came to them after reading Sherlock Holmes.
The Father Brown stories are rather similar in that the character of the detective is hugely important and each story is a free standing puzzle that the hero-detective resolves.
The problem is that as far as I can remember the Sherlock Holmes puzzles are simply better thought through.For example in one Father Brown story an Anglican priest murders the adulterous village blacksmith (or similar) by throwing a heavy object off the Church tower on to his head.
Or else would have ended up a four star book.The book obviously has two collections of stories - THE INNOCENCE OF FATHER BROWN & WISDOM OF FATHER BROWN.
For the first section I can give four stars.
And the next section deserves three stars.
I enjoyed reading these stories.
I enjoyed reading these stories.
There are plenty more for the non-English to enjoy as well.
You can read these witty remarks and I am sure you will not be able to control the chuckle or at times even the laughter.Happy that I got introduced to Father Brown.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Cooks and Boxrooms: "Father Brown Stories" by G.
K. Chesterton(Original Review, 1981-01-05)When I was 9 or 10 I loved reading about Sherlock, Father Brown, Pop Larkin, Billy Bunter, Bertie and Jeeves, Just William, etc., etc.
At the same time there was a range of Puffin books that gave me Erik the detective, the dalmatians, One End Street and others.
And there was the Children's Book Club -- a monthly hardback volume -- those titles seem to have disappeared, but I half remember them and would be fascinating to revisit them.
L'ho abbandonato.Simpatico, ma nulla di che.Erano molto meglio lo sceneggiato RAI con Renato Rascel e Arnoldo Foa e il film con Alec Guinnes.
My grandmother gave me this book after college, and seven years later, I finally gave it a try.
The Father Brown stories are delightful!
I even solved some of the mysteries before the other characters, which I am usually unable to do.
I think this just means the mysteries aren't generally that complex, but I'll take it.
Chesterton uses Brown not as a preaching mouthpiece, thank goodness, but as a sort of Catholic guide through the tales, should we choose to meditate on the spiritual aspects of the crimes and criminals.
Should you choose not to, that's okay, the stories still stand up as fun little detective tales.
I wish that goodreads let you do 1/2 stars, b/c I feel like book should get 3 1/2...so I rounded up. Anyways, I liked the stories a lot, quite entertaining, and not a hard read at all. G.K. Chesterton made Father Brown so incongruous(sp?) that I would read his name and then forget the stories were about him...very cool.
When I scanned the barcode from the copy I read I was directed to a complete collection, whereas the Wordsworth classics paperback, like the Penguin, has a selection ...
Father Brown seems to have two uncanny abilities: to be in the right place at the right time (he is specifically engaged for very few of the cases in this collection) and to make clever leaps that help him solve mysteries from very few clues.
Holmes, of course, does much the same, but with more obvious logic and less intuition which makes him a far more satisfying person to read about, in my opinion.
I also think these stories have dated far more than Conan Doyle's.
These are truly delightful stories, particularly the ones from Chesterton's first collection -- no accident then that they form the bulk of this collection.
There is something I just absolutely love about Chesterton's prose, his lurid descriptions of landscapes that set the scene with mountains f glorious adjectives.
His sense of humour too, I remember while reading it I kept jogging my partner's elbow and showing him phrases I particularly enjoyed or that made me laugh -- not something I am usually inspired to do!
I didn't mark them however, too much marking and working through books for the dissertation I think!
Päris kobe vana hea inglise kriminaaljuttude kogumik, ajastule vastavalt paljusõnaliselt ja ohtra moraalilugemise saatel kirja pandud, kuid olemuselt siiski mõnus ja turvaline lugeda.Tegelikult võiks seda isa Browni eesti keeles rohkemgi olla, Chestertonil on teda tervelt 55 jutu ja 5 kogumiku jagu, eesti keeles (selle kogumiku ja igivana Loomingu Raamatukogu peale kokku) hädised 15, ehks siis ainult veidike rohkem kui veerand...
Minus one star for the standard Romanist (and Arminian, & Lutheran, & Mormon…) anti-Calvinistic hate. But remarkable story telling, and even hating the Reformed faith still manages to capture some of the Christian faith.
The crimes solved have hardly any gore, blood or multiple bodies in Agatha Christie genre - these are the detective stories that deserve 4, 5 and more stars.
It needs a different approach and taste to enjoy the tales of Father Brown or maybe tales of The Black Widowers and those who can will definitely appreciate and second my award of 5 Stars.I enjoyed Father Brown immensely, the only regret being, I too felt bosh - what a funny tale - Detective Father Brown indeed - when my Dad introduced me to the character a few decades back.
Got it as a cheap collection of crime stories. It was worth it although they became kinda repetitive in their form and Brown's explanations came almost out of nowhere. Sure, he is clever and has some great intellect but is he *that* kind of genius? He isn't described as one in the beginning. I mostly liked how the 2 characters that seem to be the main characters in the first story end up later on but the rest of the stories were kinda forgetable though enjoyable.
Father Brown is not a mortal man. He is Chesterton's ideal Christian.
Thoroughly enjoyed reading these stories, though they are extremely predictable at times.
I give up - I admit defeat, I'll never finish all 39 of the stories, but will keep watching Mark Williams in the TV series. Shallow but satisfying
Though the short stories do not explain how this works out - most of the time - Father Brown travels the world.
I had a small smile on my face most of the time for that reason.Furthermore, I enjoyed the variety of ideas; the variety of mysteries that the good priest got to investigate; and the variety of people through which it was told.
But in the end it usually made kind of sense, and once or twice I could pride myself with getting there before the narration ended.What I really had a hard time dealing with, and I am sure that isn't because I'm a non-native speaker of English, is the language in these short stories.
Father Brown had been there in the shadows all my reading life, either by living reference or by literary reference, so I decided to take the bull by the horns and read a collection of him.
True to his period, his stories move slowly, which makes them a fine panacea when you need to drop off to sleep quickly.
But don't dismiss his true originality and sharp-wittedness in the slow-moving plots.
Father Brown, himself, is original and brilliant, though in a light under a bushel basket kind of way.
He would never want the appellation "brilliant" applied to him.
For example:"Over the black pinewood came flying and flashing in the moon a naked sword--such a slender and sparkling rapier as may have fought many an unjust duel in that ancient park.
It fell on the pathway far in front of him and lay there glistening like a large needle...Seen at close quarters it had a rather showy look: the big red jewels in the hilt and guard were a little dubious.
But there were other red drops upon the blade which were not dubious."Many an unjust duel!
A large needle!
Undubious red drops!
Charming, but rather amateurish. Some of these stories had good twists but others didn't make much sense. The idea of the detective+his former thief friend was entertaining and originally but their characters remained only half-formed. And while there are occasion great turns of phrase, there's are also sentences are are repetitious, and description that's just hard to follow.If you like detective stories of this sort, I would recommend maybe 2 or 3 Father Brown stories but not the whole collection of them.
Un detective aficionado, El Padre Brown, creado por Chesterton es distinto a lo ortodoxo que podrían ser Holmes o Poirot. Su apariencia es poco impresionante: bonachón, amable, simpático, inocente... pero poseedor de una perspicacia única en eso de conocer a la naturaleza humana y esa es su arma investigadora. Muy recomendable para quienes aún tienen la mente por encima de escenas sangrientas, crímenes con lujo de violencia y emociones rápidas.
A collection of short stories about Father Brown, an affable priest with a knack for mysteries. Although The mysteries themselves were more or less predictable (with a couple of exceptions), there were character developments in the first four stories that took me completely by surprise, which is a major asset. Another major asset is the use of language and the slightly ironic tone the writer employs, with a subtle sense of humour even under tragic circumstances.
I know this amount to literary sacrilege, but I preferred the TV adaptation. Although these stories are beautifully written, there is something about the whole 'midsomer'/'Miss Marple' similar place and characters often in one location that I find more believable.... yes there may be abnormally high body counts, but when does Chesterton's priest do any, you know, sermons, confessions, etc?
Kratke poviedky o zahadach a kriminalnych pripadoch, ktorym na koren vzdy pride uzemcisty katolicky knaz Brown. Zaujimavy jazyk a styl, starosvetske vyjadrovanie, ale velmi prijemne citanie. Mozno trochu prilis mystiky, filozofie a podobnych veci, ale to je dane zrejme dobou, v ktorej bolo dielo pisane. Pater Brown je sympatak, rada si precitam aj nieco dalsie o nom :-)
I read a few stories and they were clever, but an entire collection? No, really, I couldn't. Like a plateful of brownies, one is deelish, but all piled together like that would make me sick. Maybe one day I'll read a few more stories, but no more than one at a sitting please.
Deliciosa la lectura de "Los relatos del padre Brown" , Chesterton y su sentido común nos brindó una obra imperecedera, maravillosa y literaria y con un personaje genial. El rey de la paradoja es necesario e imprescindible.
If I had started with Chesterton's detective stories about Father Brown maybe I would have had an easier way with other books in the same gender. His stories are plain simple but delightful. I'd recommend Father Brown to young teenagers.
A collection of short detective stories. Generally pretty good. Centered on understanding motivation, rather than observing details. Never invite Father Brown to a dinner party unless you want someone murdered.
Meh.
i loved the stories at the first chapter more than the second.
Beautifully written, succinct, charming and clever.
