https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228696.Owl_Moon
This book is a Shabby Sunday feature @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2018/...Owl Moon is a striking story that takes you on a journey through the winter woods in search of owls.
The little child has been waiting to go owling with Pa for a very long time.
Pa made a long shadow, but mine was short and round.
I had to run after him every now and then to keep up, and my short, round, shadow bumped after me."John Schoenherr's illustrated imagery paints the perfect winter impression and this is a ideal book for bedtime that highlights the companionship between parent and child.
A beautiful children's book with wonderful water color illustrations throughout. I loved the story and recommend this vintage book highly.
Read for my son tonight as a bedtime story. What a beautiful story! Father and daughter quality time. Hiking in the snow and into the woods looking for owls. Her Pa tells her to be silent when go owling. Her Pa makes the whooo-whoo-who sounds to call the owl out. I love the illustration! Snow covered landscape, winter wear on the girl and her dad, and the woods' shadows are gorgeous to look at. I highly recommend this book for father and daughter!
I was preparing myself for either death or the kid saved the owls life.
It goes to show I haven't heard of owling.
Imagine my surprise and relief when I found out what owling really is.
Owling is wonderful and I would like to do that one snowy night someday.The art was lovely, simply magic.
I love that quiet softness of snow.
The kids had read this book before but they enjoyed reading it again with their aunt.
My nephew had to hold a hooting contest and the kids had some good hoots.
There are so many good stories out there.
Owls are a favourite animal of mine (my favourite species is the great horned owl) and it was amazing to see a book celebrating a quiet ritual of observing these birds in nature.
Owl Moon is a perfect winter story (despite it being 33 degrees here in Canada and I've been eating rainbow sherbet and running fans all day), and also a beautiful story about a bond between a father and a daughter.What really makes Owl Moon memorable is its illustrations.
It's a children's story but one that celebrates the enigma of a frosty and dark night owling for young and old people alike.
“Owl Moon” is a Caldecott Medal award winning book by Jane Yolen along with illustrations by John Schoenherr and it is about how a young girl goes out with her father to see an owl and experiences the magic of looking at owls all in one night.
And the image shows the young girl and her father leaving footprints in the snow as they walk through the forest.Overall, “Owl Moon” is definitely a book worth reading during the winter holidays and children who love reading about owls will definitely get a kick out this book!
Both Jane Yolen's narrative and John Schoenherr's luminous "winter wonderland" illustrations perfectly, descriptively and caressingly capture the quiet, the peacefulness, the mystery of the winter woods at night, a luminous marriage of text and image (and I can certainly and appreciatively understand how and why Owl Moon won the prestigious Caldecott Medal in 1988).While I do not see much wrong with the father imitating the owl's calls to attract it, I tend to think that using a flashlight on the owl is perhaps potentially harmful, as I believe this could temporarily blind it (and I definitely did not enjoy that part of Owl Moon quite as much).
Lovely art and a poetic story about a young girl who goes owling with her father.
very picturesque and even though I have never been owling, this makes it sound mysterious and fun.
While some kids may find this boring, take your kids out into the woods or something one night to look for nocturnal animals.
Then read this just to add and compare the experience.
Lots of fun for the kids.
Otherwise I advise, older, patient kids for reading this book.Again, lots of praise for the artwork.
It was beautiful and told a story all it's own.
We could practically feel the cold, nippy air while reading this!
I really enjoyed this story of a child's first time searching for owls with Father.
The writing style was my favorite part--I thought it was very lyrical and I really enjoyed some of the diction selections; it was unusual without being jarring and really helped convey the mood, IMO.I didn't like the illustrations quite so much--nothing "wrong" with them, they just weren't really my style.
But, I did really appreciate the details; such as the various animals "hiding" in the woods as the child and father looked for the owl.
On reread (11/15/10) I’m tempted to change this from 4 to 3 stars, but I guess I’ll leave it.The watercolor paintings are lovely, just beautiful.
However, the father’s facial expression was too fierce for my tastes.
But, all the paintings highlight the dark, the cold, the quiet so perfectly.The story is very simple and sedate and I figure some children will like it and some will be bored, or scared.
If the father’s expression and the owl aren’t seen as frightening, this could make an appropriate bedtime story.
The quiet companionship of daughter and father on an outing just for them will likely seem special to children, and those who remember childhood.
Beautiful.
How did I leave this book off of my list? My grandson and I read this book at least 3 times a week for months and months. I absolutely love the language, the atmosphere, EVERYTHING about this book.
A sweet adventure when a father takes his daughter owling on a cold winter's night. The illustrations by John Schoenherr are wonderful watercolors.
We loved this book! What a fun idea! To go on an owl walk! The illustrations were beautiful too! The kids loved it! Great read!
This book was cute and covered a rare topic!
The story of Owl Moon takes place in the bitter cold of the late night hours yet it is a special heartwarming read.
I enjoyed the story of the little girl and her father on their owling trip.
I never heard of owling until I read this book.
I feel I know all about the special outings now.
It was also interesting to read that both the author and illustrator had gone owling.Although this is a Caldecott Medal winner, I am not particularly fond of the illustrations they are just not my taste.
The owl itself was a little mean looking.
This is a very nice story about a Father and son who go out owling on a bright moonlit night.
It is told from the boy's perspective, a good memory of a special time with his Dad. The illustrations are simple and muted, but do a great job of telling the story on their own.
I thought this was a very interestng story, but our girls lost interest a few pages in.
i am clearing out my oversize library - with hundreds of children's books my children last read 20 years ago.
It is a gorgeous, evocative walk in the silent winter woods; an almost sacred ritual to see a Great Horned Owl, maybe, as described by a girl on her first "owling".
The description of the wait, first to be old enough, brave enough, quiet enough, warm enough - then for the hoped for silent, regal flight of an owl.
Being urban for the majority of my life, those truly silent winter, snowy nights have been rare for me, but this beautifully, perfectly, illustrated book brought them back.
Sit somewhere quiet and read it.
Owl Moon was an enjoyable book. It was easy to read and follow along. This book again will be a great way to introduce snow and different climate to children that had not experience it before. Also, this book will be a great adventure for children to go owling and also introduce owls and night creatures to the children. I also love the connections between the father and daughter.
Those illustrations are just amazing, beautiful, touching... As is the story. Definitely a must.
Our son loved this beautiful books.
Owl Moon is a story about a young girl’s father who takes her “owling” for the first time.
It is late at night and the girl and her father walk silently into the snowy forest hoping to soon hear an owl hoot.
And my nose and the tops of my cheeks felt cold and hot at the same time.” Having students use their senses is a great comprehension strategy to create meaning from the text.
It takes place during a snowy, moon lit, still night when a young child and a father walk in the woods looking for owls.
The story is really all about the time spent together between father and child.
The watercolor illustrations in this book compliment the text and the picture of the owl was much more detailed than the rest.
I think this was purposely done to emphasize the importance of their trip together and the time spent in nature looking for owls.
This is a popular Caldecott Medal awarding winning lovely tale of a child and father who go "owling" late at night, past bedtime.Told from the perspective of a child, there is wonderment in the cold, in the crunching of the snow, in the quietness of the land and the night sky.As the child notes the rules of owling -- one must be patient, one must accept the cold chill, one must be quiet -- he/she gently walks behind father who leads the way.Interestingly the gender of the child is not noted in the book.
Listening and calling the owls, the father is successful in drawing an owl to them.This is a lovely book, well-written, with soft, clear words augmented by lovely images.Highly recommended.
I wish that I lived someplace where I could go owling (though I felt the chill of the cold and snow as I read this beautiful book). Maybe someday I will experience these things, but for now I'm content to read, to fall into the beautiful illustrations, to become almost hypnotized by the soft cadence of words upon the page. The child narrator truly makes the story. This is one of the more beautiful books I've enjoyed with the Caldecott challenge and I can't recommend it enough.
A book we have read many times before but now that the kids are older they liked the book even more. Great to read before bedtime..krb 3/11/16Ellie read for November Pizza Hut Challenge..krb 11/16/16. She rates it 2 stars this time.
I like the illustrations in this book better than the story, which is about a young girl going out on a winter night to look for owls.
Beautifully illustrated Caldecott winner with poetic language and memorable phrases - "When you go owling you don't need words or warm or anything but hope." Loved it!
I enjoyed this book but it failed as a read aloud to my 4 year old. She wandered off part way through. For kids older than 4.
1) Genre: Contemporary Picture Book2) Late on a winter night, a young girl and her father go owling.
Their experience is simply not limited to just spotting an owl, but a creation of an undeniable bond between father and daughter.3) Critique: a) The major strength of this book is the usage of similes that add to the imagery of the content and pictures.b) If used correctly, similes definitely add to the story because the comparison is often made more realistic to the story.
I think the imagery created by the words and similes were more effective, but the picture did enhance the overall meaning of the story.
