https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12442.The_Plague_Dogs
And it absolutely deserves five stars.The Plague Dogs is one of the most visceral, wrenching, emotional reads you'll ever find.
But dogs are not wild animals -- they crave and need the companionship of people; and as Snitter and Rowf try to reconcile their need for humanity with their circumstances as de facto wild animals, they remember and relive the better times, when they were pets, before they ended up at the lab.It's an emotionally grinding book, bleak and ultimately painful.
But because it's too bleak to read again, I can never really love this book.
And when they die, they are disposed of with no more thought than one might dispose of a burned-out light bulb.One of the subjects is a large black mongrel dog which is being used to answer the great burning scientific question of, "What would happen if we kept trying to drown a dog but never actually let it die?" Rowf (having never had a master, his name is just the sound he makes) has a single companion in the lab, in the cage next to him - a small terrier who, having had a master before, has a name - Snitter.
Adams asked himself the question, "How would a dog interpret the world?" and got a lot of great ideas from it.And, as I mentioned before, there's a lot of talk about humanity's responsibility towards the animals.

It's up to researchers and workers to follow the rules daily, and they always know when the inspections will happen.Also, animal labs do use and buy animals from shelters for experiments.
Back in 2006 for sure, Ingham County Animal Control in Michigan regularly sold animals for $5-10 to "resellers" who then sold them to Michigan State University.
Many experiments only require an animal in general, not lab stock, sad to say.
Sadly, there is no daily oversight in labs.
The best line is when Rolf states, "Surely some good must come of this?".
Truly, animal labs are a business.
I'm planning on rereading it soon, and I swear, more people need to read this book.It's the tale of two dogs who escape from a laboratory that is very happy to use animals in its experiments.
Whilst escaping, Rowf and Snitter pass through a room that is being used for research into the bubonic plague, and break a petri dish, thus convincing the scientists that these dogs have bubonic plague and are a public health menace.
I am so glad that I received this in a book exchange and returned to the adventures of Snitter and Rowf.
I won't go into details here, but if you are sensitive to this issue, I would recommend skimming certain portions of the book.Snitter had an owner in his life before the facility and longs to return to this loving environment.
You hear from a journalist covering the story; a scientist that leaks information to the press; the sister of the owner of Snitter; the military called on to help rid the countryside of the dogs.
This type of book has lead to people believing all labs just use any animal of any type for prurient vivisection.
I work in labs and there are no animals not bred for lab use by specialists.
No lab would buy stolen pets that may harbor disease and offer too broad a genetic variance.
They had been informed we did animal work by some local variant of animal rights group, but one that never checked the validity of their reports since all we ever had was lab bred mice.
Two badly-treated dogs, Rowlf and Snitter, escape from Animal Research, Scientific and Experimental lab (A.R.S.E.--gotta love it!), in the beautiful English Lake District.
(Tongue-in-cheek joke, I suppose, but still a bit weird at that moment.)The book was written in the year 1977 which I recall as being a time when there was a big outcry about the cruel way cosmetic products were being tested on animals and gruesome horror stories and photos abounded--which makes me wonder if Adams chose to write this book at that time with perhaps the hope that people would read it and be swayed to become activists for animal rights.
Years later I learned that the film was based on a book, and I immediately read it.
I pretty much knew most of what was going to happen when I read Watership Down, since the film follows the book rather closely.
Now that I have finished the novel I can finally say that I am so glad I gave it another chance.As an animal lover, this book is incredibly hard to read, but it is so worth it.
The story switches between dog and human POVs, and Adams even breaks the forth wall in the last few pages to address the horrors of animal cruelty.
The book is progressing to a logical end, and Adams steps in with a nice postmodern trick and adopts the voice of the reader addressing him, the author.
"How can you end it like this?" the reader essentially says.
Adams also goes back and touches on certain characters, one of the scientists, especially, and fleshes them out for the first time, showing the reader a little bit of perspective, which raises the book from propaganda into the novel form.
(Nothing against Beowolf, it's the 4 times that got me.) I can't say that I enjoyed this book, but the ending was very well-done.
I started this book at least ten times before I could read past the first chapter. This book will destroy the heart of any animal lover. It is the story of two animals that escape from an animal testing lab from the point of view of the animals. While the writing can be hard to absorb as Adams tries to show the mental condition of the characters, the tale is well worth the read. It seems to me to be a good way to step out of what we know and see the world from a different set of eyes.
It's not that this isn't a well written, thought provoking book.
It just isn't the kind of book that I like to read, because it's just too...sad.
It is, in fact, quite a good book.
If you like Richard Adams, or if you do not like animal testing and are looking to get emotionally charged up about it, this would be a good book to read.
If you are extremely sensitive about unreasonable abuse/violence to animals, you probably should not read this book.
I read it a couple of years ago, so that's all I've got, cause that's all I remember.
One of the saddest books I have ever read. As an animal lover, especially somone who loves dogs it was very hard to finish-but the ending was appropriate and Adams's gift for storytelling helps soften the blow at the end of the journey.It did make me hate scientists for awhile, though.
The book follows multiple participants on the plot so there are moments in which we follow the two main charaters who are dogs and experience their inner life (I wish my dogs could hold meaningful conversations like that but this is where the plot gets fairy tale-ish) as well all the people involved.
While the dogs struggle to survive, the people take stand either on political life of the county or animal testing and the portrait media paint of it.
it was just way too far from English) and opinions (there were almost philosophical musings so it kinda clashed with the dogs having voices so I'm not sure how old one can be to read this).
It’s peppered with gratuitous literary references, weighed down by lengthy passages of leaden political satire, and the whole thing has the slightly ponderous air of the kind of book a retired civil servant would write.
Careering madly through Godwin’s Law, Adams goes so far as to trace a comparison between the state of animal testing in the 1970s and experiments carried out by Mengele under the Nazis.
Very little of this is directly relevant to the central plot, in which a pair of dogs escape from a testing lab and run wild in the Lake District, but then there’s quite a lot else in this book that’s not really relevant to that either.
The Plague DogsI honestly do not know if I should recommend this book or warn people off of it.
It is a good book but any violence towards dogs, pets in general rubs me the wrong way and this degree of neglect, torture in the name of science etc is extreme.
The writing is superb, I have seldom disliked so many characters so violently!The plot line is intricate and flawless.
The narrator in this book is part of why this was so hard for me.
He made every character unique with a voice all it's own.
3 stars for the whole story (because it might be 2 times shorter) and 5 stars for the ending
Truly fantastic book; The Plague Dogs is a tale of friendship, loyalty and adventure, and also an unintentional yet effective testament to animal rights.
The experiments that are being carried out at the facility are barbaric and make for tough reading.The damaged past that Rowf and Snitter have faced impacts their current lives too, and Rowf has a deep-rooted mistrust of mankind.
On the other hand, Snitter suffers from some kind of hallucinations or visions, and some of these seem to be stark mad.They end up meeting 'Tod' - a fox with a Toon accent.
Snitter likes The Tod's company, but Rowf is a bit wary and doesn't trust The Tod's sly ways.The end of the book is quite heartbreaking, along with many other parts as well.
The reality of this book is a reality of humans, and the dogs often wonder why men changed the natural houses into things like unnatural trees and rocks.
The reader is taken into a story where he can observe the evil deeds of humans (and there are not many deeds which aren't evil in this book).
Their actions are not weighed on as good or bad in any way, only necessary (with that, I will add this is a fairly violent book), and without knowing they had escaped from horrible animal testing practices they would not gain any ground in the readers' hearts.
From what I have heard, and read myself, I feel that this is definitely the low point in Richard Adams' writing.I think that my two main problems with this book are first the amount of space that Adams uses to push his political agenda down the reader's throat.
While I totally agree that the inhumane treatment of animals in research facilities is deplorable and that something definitely must be done about such activities, after a while when reading the novel I began to dread the sections of the book that did not concern themselves directly with the dogs' activities.
I'm a bit torn on what rating to give this book.
Portions of it I absolutely despised, as they just felt rather contrived and redundant...
other portions I absolutely adored, and three parts were downright beautiful.
I enjoyed the style of the book itself, and the newspaper clippings interspersed throughout were used just as well as they were in say, Carrie or Dracula.
The moralistic conversations, while a bit jarring, were still used rather well to the purpose that the book served.
All in all, a three star for me with a potential for change.
The movie, on the other hand, is a solid five star endeavor.
I read this after finishing Watership Down, Adams' most famous novel. Plague Dogs is darker, angrier, and more polemical than Watership Down, but Adams is such a gifted writer that his characters transcend his political purpose. While I would recommend Watership Down to everyone, I suspect Plague Dogs would be an ideal book for later adolescents with a tendency to rail against society. I enjoyed it at forty-three, but it would have consumed me at sixteen. If, like me, you felt instant affinity with Fiver from Watership Down, you'll find Snitter from Plague Dogs compelling as well.
Adams makes it clear in the first few pages where he stands on animal experimentation - the acronym for the research centre the two dogs escape from is A.R.S.E. A rambling and surreal narrative that not only tackles Man's role in Nature, but warfare, media and government too - heavy stuff, but carried off with aplomb and a deftness of touch on more than one occasion. Apparently, a lot of the 'nicer' characters in the book are actually real - I hope that means 'The Tod'.
Onvan : The Plague Dogs - Nevisande : Richard Adams - ISBN : 345494024 - ISBN13 : 9780345494023 - Dar 390 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1977
Just a hint - when a critic calls a book "Grave of the Fireflies with puppies," believe them.Richard Adams, that son of a bitch who put us through bunny hell with "Watership Down," is back to torment us with dogs.
It's not a perfect story; Adams did love himself a tangent, and the ending is a wee bit pat.Also, I'm going to pretend that this story is an endless slog through the north country, because to imply that it will, eventually, restore your faith in humanity would actually be to present you with something of a spoiler.I understand there's a movie in circulation.
This book is a different kind of story altogether, more interested in satire and exploring mankind's inhumanity to the animal world, shown through endless scenes of laboratory testing which are guaranteed to upset and horrify any animal lover.
This makes Snitter and Rowf's escape all the more desperate and all the more enthralling.This novel combines many different elements, from expertly-described scenics (you'll feel like you've personally visited the Lake District after reading) to random authorial asides, hope, despair, violence, courage, and mental illness.
I admit that I found this a difficult read purely because I was so caught up in what was taking place that I was actively scared as to what might happen over the page.

Two laboratory dogs embark on a daring escape from the facility that imprisoned them: Rowf, angry and bitter, is fiercely protective of small Snitter, whose brain has been compromised but whose heroic streak remains intact.
Despite everything they've endured, they both retain the dog's trademark capacity for love and loyalty.
I approach animal stories with caution because they touch my soul in a visceral way, and this book will stay with me forever.
But it's worth the plunge into a darkness that's only too real just to experience the palpable way in which the author, and the dogs, insist of pursuing the light.
Two dogs escape from an animal testing facility and it goes downhill from there.The animation version of this was one of the most devastatingly grim films I’ve ever seen, and I mean that as high praise. The original book is a wandering polemic and differs on some plot points which I think the much tighter movie narrative improved upon substantially.
