https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35721089-beautiful-boy
The drug is highly addictive and has dangerous side-effects.
There was the scary emergency room visit for an asthma attack during a party where drugs, alcohol and cats were rampant.
My neglect to mention my drug use to the doctor treating me nearly caused me to have a heart attack.
My love affair with the drug was over as quickly as it started.
I’ve read stories about drug addicts, but none told from a parent’s perspective.
I’m looking forward to Nic’s story – what made him start using, his relationship with his parents and siblings, and the effects his parents’ divorce had on him.
I checked this book out of the library after hearing David Sheff and his son Nick interviewed on NPR.
You learn nothing about David Sheff's childhood and I only found out that one of Nick's grandparents died from alcoholism from reading Tweak.
Instead he writes family scene after family scene of Nick being this golden boy as a child/teenager which becomes annoying because clearly Nick had problems beyond the divorce when he was a young child.
David Sheff didn't miss a single experience of having a drug-addicted son. He seconds guesses himself repeatedly. David reads about it, asks questions, studies new and old treatment, loses sleep, abandons himself of loved ones, sets apart his life over and over again. David is depressed. He makes himself physically sick. He can't turn to God. Sheff didn't miss a fucking beat. I've had this book for a year before I could bring myself to read it. I regret putting it off so long.
This is a book full of numerous examples of how over-idealization of a son by his father can cause as many problems as insufficient attention paid to the child.
If you can believe this father, his son was nothing short of the second coming.
No wonder the son became a lying, stealing, self-absorbed addict who took multiple rehabs to kick a habit.
But I really believe it's harmful over-indulgence to so glorify our kids' importance and intelligence.
To me this son's supposed brillance came off sounding smart-alecky and self-important.
Plus, I don't think the author actually ever gets what he could have done to speed up his kid's coming to grips with addiction.
I liked this book a lot better than Tweak.
In Tweak, Nic reveals some very graphic events in his early childhood, and his father exposed him to too much.
Throughout Beautiful Boy, the father plays this "Woe is me" battle, and of course I had sympathy with him because I cannot imagine being a parent and watching your child destroy his life, but I just think there was a little more to the story that the father did not reveal in his book that was important as to why Nic started doing drugs in the first place.
3.5 StarsBeautiful Boy is a memoir written by David Sheff about his experiences as he tried to save his teenage son from drug addiction.
Beautiful Boy was an incredibly informative reading experience for me personally.
Emotion was continually interrupted which I personally appreciated and I think it was the best writing style for this type of book so it could be a learning experience for readers first and foremost.
Overall, Beautiful Boy was a well-written and well-researched memoir that I'm glad I read.
I also plan to read the son's memoir: Tweak which is Nic's own account of growing up with addiction.
Some people are pretty condemning towards David's failures as a father.
Some people completely lack empathy towards Nic. I understand the difficulty they have, but until addiction hits you an a personal way, you will only continue to pick apart the details of why instead of having empathy to be effective, or helpful, in the situation now.
The theme that I loved in David Sheff's book was, "Don't become addicted to your loved one's addiction." Yes, yes, yes!
If you have never had exposure to substance abuse, either as a user or the loved one of a user, read these books.
Read these books.
Sheff implied that Nic was the kind of kid no one expected would become a drug addict.
Sheff is a humble narrator who shoulders some of the blame--probably more than he should-- for Nic’s addiction, and he spoke with total openness:When I am alone, however, I weep in a way that I have not wept since I was a young boy.
All the while, his son lived on the streets of San Francisco, a shadow of his former self.Sheff’s son was primarily addicted to methamphetamine, and in the course of trying to save him, Sheff researched meth.
Reading this, knowing how hopelessly addicted Sheff’s son was, pushes Beautiful Boy into the realm of frightening.
I. Am. Done.I swear this book took me a month to read.
I read the companion, Tweak, written by his son, and I thought it would be interesting to hear the other perspective.
What started as an article for The New York Times Magazine, the overwhelming response prompted Sheff to write a whole book.
It was obviously stretched beyond it's means, and Sheff often relied on random quotes from movies and songs to fill space.
I would really only recommend this book to those who have an addict in their lives; it will probably provide them with a lot of comfort.
I think that unless you are a parent yourself perhaps you can't fully understand the horror of seeing your child, your very own child whom you have loved more than the universe itself, descend into the nightmare of addiction: the helplessness, the all-consuming nature of the distress, the way it reaches into every corner of your life, even causing you at times to sacrifice all the good things you may have going for you - Sheff's story is so raw and brutal that I could physically feel my heart being squeezed as I read of his pain.Because here's the secret thing: Sheff's son could have been my child, or the child of any one of us Boomers.
However after reading this book, I realize that I'm not alone in feeling completely confused, furious, wronged, neglected, saddened, helpless, judged, torn, and exhausted, (not to mention a million other things) when dealing with my always recovering drug addicted sister.David Sheff represents the wrath of addiction so well I felt as though he was describing my family - my sister.
Read this book and it might just make you have a bit more hope, which is all you can really control when it comes to addiction.Bravo to David Sheff for giving an honest voice to the other victims of addiction.
The recently released movie, Beautiful Boy, is based on a pair of memoirs from father and son David and Nic Sheff that chronicle, from each of their points of view, the heartbreaking experience of survival, relapse, and recovery in a family coping with addiction over many years.The father shares his perspective in this book, Beautiful Boy: A Father's Journey Through His Son's Addiction, while the son's book is Tweak: Growing Up on MethamphetaminesI read the father's book first, rating it 4*, and then the son's book, which I rated 3*.
Mental health and addiction is such an ugly, messy beast.David and Nic were both so brave, and honest, and real with sharing their story.
3.5 stars.
so close to to four stars.
The same things that make me consider this book "just okay" (the repetition of themes, the over-dramaticism, the self-absorption) are the same things that make it so realistic and relatable to anyone who's had with an addict in their lives.
He does a good job of capturing the paradoxes of addiction; all these conflicts that just don't add up in any logical way: You have no control...
but they're the only ones who can control it.The literary quality of the book's debatable.
I have a hard time looking at the book objectively.
The writing was good, but I couldn't stop thinking that rich people are very lucky. Thier kids can be drug addicts and not go to jail. It would have been better if the author had really acknowledged that.
So here is a sad, beautiful book about a father who loves his son so much but he was struggling with drug addiction.
If you want to read his son's perspective read Tweak.The main thing to realize when it comes to drug addiction is that it can affect anyone from any background.
Someone can come from a rich family, or a respectable one with a good amount of money and a decent education and still end up an addict.
An addict doesn't do drugs and struggle in isolation.
Leave them to suffer on the street without giving them a dime knowing he'll just use it for drugs?
David Sheff's emotional illiteracy is astounding.
Case in point: at some point after Nic has his 32587th relapse, David and Jasper go for a hike together.
Here is a perfect opportunity for a father to talk about some really important and scary events with his youngest son, and instead the conversation goes like this: David: -manly silence-Jasper: "You're worried about Nic, aren't you?" David: "Yeah." Both: -manly silence-TALK TO YOUR SON, MOTHERFUCKER.
I'm going to go out on a limb here and say that David probably also neglected to teach Nic ANY EMOTIONAL COPING SKILLS WHATSOEVER, which is probably why he turned to drugs?
The book is just littered with I'm-getting-paid-per-word filler.
I'm writing again after being unable to write a word.
*Sunil*: I came back in here to 'edit' my *STARS*.....(you gave it 4): Pretty high for you, too!I'll always give this book a *5*! I admire David for writing it. (you know 'our' daughter was sick for years .....different ...yet the same in ways) ---We even had some connection with David ----(but that is besides the point) ---I felt the book contributed 'BETTER' than MOST to what ANY parent goes through --- (it hard so much fricken heart ---it was painful).ok.....I've got things to do ---I wrote to you TWICE before 5am this morning! lolelyse
But this book was so irritating to me.It felt like the author was looking for complete absolution, when there was none needed.
He blamed everyone and their dog for his son's drug addiction.
It felt like a struggling dad trying to remove himself from the failings of his son.
Some people do not possess the capability to resist the effects of such things, like drugs and alcohol.
I didn't expect the dad to say that it was all his fault, but just how he talked about everyone else didn't feel right.
He spent so much time trying to point blame, and that bothered me.
If the author's point was to make the reader feel the same hopeless numbness that comes after countless revolutions of the rehab/relapse cycle, then mission accomplished; only problem is that this is less than riveting -- or even tolerable -- without a strong emotional connection.
There is not a strong emotional connection.The bottom line is that I'm wholly unsurprised that this book began as a New York Times Magazine (or was it New Yorker?) article, because it reads like 15 pages of relatively compelling yet somehow drily distancing (for its subject matter) writing stretched out and repeated until it reaches a 300-page (or whatever) book.
One of the best books dealing with addiction I've ever read. It makes you feel fear and hope. It makes you laugh and cry. I recommend this book to anyone that loves someone, friend or family that lives with addiction.
But whatever confusions, and perhaps the few self-protective instances of skewing the remembered introspection or personal behavior towards a more exculpatory memory, a process of which the author may or may not be guilty, I believe the book gives readers an excellent idea of how one addicted family member stresses and maims the other members of an ordinary upper-middle-class family.David Sheff candidly describes his own past involvement with drugs, comparing it to his son’s life with drugs now in the 21st century.
It’s shitty of me to say these things, but my initial positive reaction to this book is hampered by the fact that it’s essentially about a severely addicted individual, who grew up in, and has maintained even after sobriety, a life of privilege.
It’s just, to be frank, irritating to hear about a young white male of high socioeconomic standing, manage to be so thoroughly privileged during (and subsequently following) such dark years, when there are stories out there of people (due to their lesser social stations) who don’t have the advantages that Nic does...
5 | tw/ mentions of drugs/addiction.
i knew it would be before going into it, but i didn’t imagine that i would be crying like a baby after reading the last half of the book.
it was mentioned numerous times how all of the stories dealing with drug addicts are essentially the same - they have the same pain, same heartache, same desperation.
when i read this book, it was unbelievable how alike my uncle and nic were.
i really recommend this book to anyone, regardless of if they have had experience with drugs/drug addiction.
Beautiful Boy: A Father's Journey Through His Son's Addictionby David SheffThis is a memoir of a father's attempts and unfortunately his many failed attempts to help his son Nick kick the habit of his addiction to drugs.
I read this with a very heavy heart as time after time Mr. Sheff's attempts to help his beloved son fails.
This was a really hard read for me because I could identify with Mr. Sheff's pain and suffering watching Nick vacillate from promising if his father helps him this one last time, Nick will stop using drugs.
The most telling omission from the book is the connection that Nic started drinking and using drugs when his stepmother got pregnant with his father's new family.
I don't need to read firsthand all of the horrible things that he did and that happened to him, and it's already been established in his father's book that addicts don't make logical choices about rehab.
Actually I honestly don't know what he (the son) would say--after a point, addiction is kind of repetitive, isn't it?--although I'd like to know if he explores the effect his parents' divorce had on him, since I've recently read another book about how traumatic divorce is for children and they're not as "resilient" and "adaptable" as divorced parents would like to think they are.
My point is that the book is supposed to document a wrenching journey but the author doesn't seem to realize how he comes across to the reader sometimes.
I was especially moved by the end as he realizes he just has to let his son go completely.
Additionally, having a teenage son just entering high school fills me with complete dread over the possibility of losing him to something like a drug addiction.
I definitely felt sorry for the situation he found himself in, and was fascinated with some of the actual medical research, but I couldn't help wondering if maybe the author was the root of the problem to begin with.
He drops hints about leading a fairly loose lifestyle from his son's early age (having an affair that leads to divorce, bringing random women home, open communication about his own drug use, etc...).
Needless to say, while the situation with his son was completely awful, the more I read, the less interested I was.
The author did an amazing job of telling the story real-time rather than letting the known outcome creep into the writing.
The most amazing thing for me was the entire time I was reading I felt sick to my stomach; I wanted to put the book down and forget about it but at the same time I wanted to see if the next page was the page where it would turn around.
Everything from flashbacks of Nic as a young boy to describing the way the trees look in the fall as the leaves are dying while he is waiting for the next call from Nic. The Author does an amazing job of taking you on this horrible journey with him.
Beautiful Boy gives the father's perspective on a son's downward spiral into drug addiction.
Crystal meth, Nic Sheff's preferred drug, is a nightmarish concoction that seriously depletes the brain neurotransmitter dopamine and can leave users depressed, anxious, and with severely impaired cognitive function between highs.
There is hope here, too, and David Sheff's love for his son can be felt on every page.
Nic (who published his own version of the story in his new book Tweak) and David Sheff together visited my daughter's high school recently.
Fortunately I have a son, my beautiful boy.
Unfortunately he is a drug addict.
Fortunately he is not dead.After reading this addiction memoir, I have learned to check my optimism, and I am scared to death of meth.
This may be recommended reading for parents of addicts, but I am not, and I still found it to be compelling.
I enjoyed the journey with a father of one addicted son.
I have learned enough to know that meth addicts, don't recover—at least for a long, long time.
And so much about this disease is grieving.
Grieving for the loved ones.
Then their grieving is interrupted by a new crisis.
