https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4808763-the-last-question
What's the point in giving you a summery for a 4,000-word short story? So here's what I'll do instead: I'll give you a lesson in physics. Sound good? Cool. Ever hear of the second law of thermodynamics? Yes? But you have no clue what it means? Okay, well we can work with that. Here's what Wikipedia has on the subject:  The second law of thermodynamics states that the entropy of an isolated system never decreases, because isolated systems spontaneously evolve towards thermodynamic equilibrium—the
The second law of thermodynamics tells us that entropy in a closed system, be it your sand castle, car, or life...
never decreases, it will only ever increase to maximum.But here's the thing, it's not really a law by any means.
Yes, the second law of thermodynamics is actually a statistical principle; entropy could indeed decrease in a system (any system like this would be considered a perpetual motion machine), but it's just not statistically likely.
We’ll get back to your punishment later but rest assured that hidden blowhole is there)a suicide bomberthe innards of one dying from Ebolathe socks off a just former virginthat rat-tag bastard James (the one on my list (you know who you are (eh probably (if not the list just happens to coincidentally be posted behind (where else?) Denny’s (to the left of the backdoor but to the right of that oddly colored blood stain (if you enjoy parentheses though you don’t have to worry about being on my horror inducing atrocity-proximate list though))))))Obama’s reputationall your meager, pathetic hopes and fragile psyche after the Red Weddingwhen you hear the wedding ring explanation for Inception’s ending!
¿En que momento dejaremos de existir como humanidad y que podemos hacer para evitarlo?Bajo este premisa se desarrolla toda la historia con un final que te deja la boca abierta y la mente ocupada por varios días.
Te preguntas si es posible que ese final sea factible y si no nosotros como raza estamos tan locos como para hacer eso y la verdad es que si...
Si lo estamos.Impresiona que el relato se haya escrito hace tanto tiempo y que siga tan vigente su premisa, es una genialidad por parte de Asimov.
It’s Asimov, it’s a classic golden age SF short story, it’s original with so much packed into so few pages and just maybe it’s prophetic. I don’t often split out a particular story from a “best of “ or other compendium of short stories, but this is just so iconic that I’ve rated it as a separate entity
Interesante explicación del origen del universo. No puedo decir mucho más de lo que pienso porque sería spoiler, pero muy interesante historia.
Mind blown in 5 pages.I've never wondered so deeply about the walks of our universe in 22 years of my life as much as I have in the span of barely fifteen minutes, which began with me opening this story and ended with me finishing it.There is no proper review for me to provide to do justice to a book this short-lived and astounding. Read it and you'll know it.
" THERE IS YET INSUFFICIENT VOCABULARY TO MAKE A MEANINGFUL REVIEW OF THIS SHORT-STORY. "Heck, what enormous stuffs people are capable of thinking!!And only thing in my mind now is :
Estaba segura que odiaba la ciencia ficción... hasta hoy.
The only question worth asking.
This short story starts off in the year 2061 (keep in mind this was written in 1956) and follows the evolution of man and the subsequent advancement of technology throughout the ages.
Split into seven sections, each story features a different POV that takes you further into the depths of space and time, racing towards the end of humanity, and ends with the resounding question, How exactly may entropy be reversed?
It is daring, and I found myself growing more and more transfixed as the story progressed, and the imposing, unanswered question became critically relevant.So, has Man been doomed from the start?
Yes. When you want to actually think on what you are reading, pick this short story. Isaac Asimov was a genious, oh yhea. Science "Fiction" in its most perfect example. Santo DiosJesús en la Cruz!Santo niño de atocha!Ave Maria Purisima!Mas todas las exclamaciones que se te puedan ocurrir (Insertar aquí).Lean este relato. Solo léanlo y ya. No pregunten, no digan nada. Solo háganlo. Un sumamente interesante relato sobre el hombre, la maquina, la mente, el universo y la entropia.(view spoiler)[Me encanta que termina como si fuera tipo Dios #MindBlowing (hide spoiler)]
خاکستر درختان را نمیشود دوباره به درختان تبدیل کرد، ولی از آن خاکستر میشود برای رشد گیاه تازه استفاد
Me dejo realmente sorprendido, Asimov es un GENIOOOOOO...... Ese final me dejo con la boca abierta, solo asimov podría considerar y crear algo de tal magnitud en tan pocas páginas..... me encanto
A review of this tale will not make sense for three reasons:1) The unfolding of a certain twist in this short story is done with the last few words of this ~4000 word long story.2) A review of any form will sweeten the pill - the crux of what Asimov is trying to get at.
The story perse is a bunch of conversations between laymen across different times in the future.The story also mocks the co-existence of creationism and evolution carving a possible future(That's right.
http://www.physics.princeton.edu/ph11...edit: new link provided from a below commentgreat read.
همینه که فرق میذاره مثلاً بین داستان های علمی تخیلی آسیموف و داستان های علمی تخیلی ژول ورن.
ژول ورن جز همان که داره می گه چیز دیگه ای نمی خواد بگه.
ولی آسیموف گهگاه، دقت که بکنید، داره راجع به یه چیزی حرف می زنه، چیزی غیر از همین داستان که پیش روی آدمه.دو داستان "آخرین سؤال" و "آخرین جواب" ترکیبی از فلسفه و تخیله.
ترکیبی زیبا، که با کمی لحن طنز، به دغدغه های فلسفی آسیموف می پردازه، بدون این که بخواد جواب واضحی بهشون بده.لینک ترجمه فارسی دو داستان:آخرین سؤالآخرین جواب
THERE IS AS YET INSUFFICIENT DATA FOR A MEANINGFUL REVIEW.
Steinhardt and Turok's book  Endless Universe  spends a surprising amount of time discussing this classic SF short story. I think that tells us something both about Isaac Asimov and about the state of modern early-universe cosmology.
¡Big Bang!
لهذا يفتقر العالم اليوم للأسئلة الجيدة والجديدة، وكأن الأفق نضبت أفكاره، فلا توجد أسئلة عظيمة تزلزل ما كنّا نعتقده سابقاً، أو تصعقنا من الغفلة التي نعيش فيها.منذ عشرين عاماً، والصحفي جون بروكمان يسأل كبار العلماء والفلاسفة اسئلة من نوع: «ما السؤال الذي تجده قد أختفى؟» و «ما الذي تعتقد أنه صحيحٌ بالرغم من صعوبة إثباته؟» حتى استقر على سؤال واحد لا أكثر: «ما هو السؤال الأخير؟»كتب إسحق عاصموف، في خمسينيات القرن الماضي، قصة قصيرة بعنوان (السؤال الأخير); تبدأ أحداث القصة في واقع مفترض عام 2061 بعد أن يسأل العلماء كمبيوتراً عملاقاً: «كيف يتوقف الكون عن الموت؟» فيجيب الكمبيوتر: «لا توجد بيانات كافية لتكوين جواباً ذا معنى» ويبقى هذا السؤال مطروحاً زمناً طويلاً، حتى حلول الوقت الذي يظهر فيه الحلّ، يكون الكون قد مات.
عه این کتاب :-"من نمی دونستم این داستان کوتاه به عنوان کتاب مستقل هم هست اینجا....من به کل علمی تخیلی خوندن رو با کارهای آسیموف شروع کردم و قلمش رو خیلی دوست دارم.
اینکه آنتروپی برعکس می شه و دوباره همه چیز رو از سر می گیره، براساس قانون پایستگی انرژی قابل قبوله، ولی برخلاف پارادوکس اطلاعات نیست؟ یا اینکه همین ای سی که اصطلاحا « مخلوق » ـه ، فکر خالصه، خودش باعث افزایش آنتروپی نمی شه؟ یا اینکه آیا آنتروپی قابل انتقاله؟ + یه داستان دیگه هم هست به نام آخرین پاسخ، که به شخصه دوستش ندارم و دقیقا یادم نمیادش.
It gave me goosebumps. This is one of the most beautiful and thrilling short stories I've ever read. :')
Absolutamente genialoso, un relato que te deja reflexionando y con un final al que le darías 1000 estrellas (ya sean enanas, rojas, supernovas....)Muy recomendable.
I feel like my life has changed in the space of half an hour...
"Todos los datos recogidos habían llegado al fin. No quedaba nada para recoger."Una pregunta inevitable. Genio.
Oh I just love it when someone can eloquently point out how much capable we humans are of destroying ourselves with our obsessive self-love. No, not self-love maybe, but something comparable. A frantic desire to find answers to things that should be left alone. The mad will to live when living is less relevant as some other things."THERE IS INSUFFICIENT DATA FOR A MEANINGFUL ANSWER."Perhaps this is really how everything will come to an end finally. Who knows....
Este tipo de lectura me plantea muchas preguntas y ganas de conversar.Si el universo se va expandiendo constantemente, no podia la humanidad seguir ese camino de galaxias mas nuevas hasta el infinito? Asumiendo que es infinito.No se forman naturalmente nuevas estrellas constantemente por todas las galaxias? No solo las de la direccion opuesta al big bang?
Simplemente genial.
Es un relato/cuento que se lee en un ratito. Si no lo leyeron, DEBEN leerlo, ME VOLO la cabeza.Me encanto. Es simple, corto pero profundo a la vez. Es de esos cuentos que se deberían dar en las escuelas.
3.4 stars. I would have given the story 4 stars if there had been less redundancies within. Overall a creative and thought-provoking story.
