https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/487445.The_Onion_Field
”But he still dreamed of it, could feel the cold night wind in his face, could smell the onions in the field.” Jimmy Smith is on the left, and Gregory Powell is on the right. The detective to the far right needs to try not to look so gobsmacked at historic moments like this.It was a routine traffic stop; a 1946 Ford coupe with the tag light out was pulled over by Officers Ian Campbell and Karl Hettinger. If the occupants of the vehicle had just played it cool and not let their guilt from their p
The detective to the far right needs to try not to look so gobsmacked at historic moments like this.It was a routine traffic stop; a 1946 Ford coupe with the tag light out was pulled over by Officers Ian Campbell and Karl Hettinger.
Gregory Ulas Powell and Jimmy Lee Smith should have been on trial for two cold, blooded murders.
The Onion Field shows up on every list of Best True Crime books ever written, along with Helter Skelter by Vincent Bugliosi, In Cold Blood by Truman Capote, and The Stranger Beside Me by Ann Rule.
I read this as a young cop and again after I had been a crime reporter for a good long time. Each reading gave me chills. Having attended many police survival courses and pulled many car stops, I can relate to the experiences of the officers. Working a one-man unit in the middle of the night when you're twenty-three and carefree is one thing. Looking back on it from an adult's perspective many years ago, I'm surprised I never visited an Onion Field of my own.
First published in 1973, The Onion Field covers the story of the brutal encounter between two LAPD cops and two career criminals in, well, an onion field. I won't go into the outcome except to say the criminals got the best end of the deal, especially when the death penalty was struck down in California. Compelling reading, even the tedious courtroom scenes unraveling with their own grim, ironic dramas. Wambaugh's early writing, such as this nonfiction title, is generally regarded as his better output. I hope to read more of his nonfiction somewhere downstream.

This is a book of two halves and writing styles.
The first part is an In Cold Blood-esque non-fiction novel.
Beautifully written and in my opinion preferable to the former mentioned book.
The second half is the long and complex legal aftermath, which is written in the standard true crime narrative with court transcripts.
The first half is an easy five stars.
The writing is pure excellence, oozing emotion and foreshadowing the imminent tragedy.
The second part did lose my interest in places but this is through no fault of the author.
The legal case goes on forever with a great deal of repetition.
I tried reading this once when I was in high school and ended up donating it. I'll try again now that it's only $1.99 on Amazon.
I couldn't make it through this book due to its poor pacing and rampant homophobia. The character development is excruciatingly focused on one character's bisexuality and how that is a major influence of his criminal behaviors. The author's perspective on this disgusted me and the pacing of the book was so poor that when I thought about those two factors, I just put the book down instead of continuing. The story is disjointed and very sluggish.
An odd and mysterious story taking place in the heat and dust of Los Angeles during the early Sixties, The Onion Field is a completely unforgettable crime novel.
True crime classic about two small-time punks who manage to get the drop on a couple of tough LA cops. The tragic aftermath sees the surviving cop spiral into guilt-ridden addiction and despair, while the two hoods actually thrive on Death Row, outsmarting the system through patience and persistent legal maneuvering and ultimately drawing life imprisonment instead of execution. Watch for the movie featuring a very young James Woods as the creepy cop killer. It was his debut performance and it sparked a legendary film career!
Wambaugh is very careful, and he lays out with considerable sympathy and understanding the reasons the LAPD failed Hettinger so abysmally (making the survivor go to department roll-calls and describe what happened--being abducted by a pair of two-bit hoods, driven from Hollywood to Bakersfield, watching one of them shoot his partner, and then being chased across the onion fields in the dark--and 
Joseph Wambaugh was a young officer in the Los Angeles Police Department when the 1963 incident occurred that he later turned into a nonfiction novel called The Onion Field.
The young men in the vehicle kidnapped them and took them to an onion field in San Bernadino and murdered Campbell.
This historically honorable and conscientious man began shoplifting and was forced off the police force.This is the story that eventually led LAPD and other law enforcement to recognize the formidable damage such an experience has on officers and to establish routine psychological interviews after traumatic events.Wambaugh's 1973 book is dated.
A true story that sent shivers down my spine. I read this book ages ago and I ought to read again to see what I make of this book today. Thought provoking.
Not my favorite True Crime book.
The author does a great job of outlining the characters and overall it was a fairly interesting and terrible tale of the abduction and execution of police officers in Los Angeles in the 60s.
But parts of the way the book was structured and paced bothered me, with little interludes from an unnamed (until the end) character and often important revelations in the trial were buried in paragraphs of tedium.
Lastly, maybe a product of its time, but the author is homophobic and that features heavily due to one of the criminal's bisexuality.
I'd look elsewhere if you want a good true crime book.
The first half of the book goes describes the four main people.
It makes you feel like you know all four people really well by the time you get half way through the book.
Two of the main men are petty thieves trying to make it day to day by robbing and scamming.
The other two men are police officers.
The rest of the book talks about trials of the two thieves.
The trials last for way to long and are drawn out with the thieves and lawyers making everything as hard as they can and make a mockery of the system.
This book was a bit of a surprise.
It was a recommendation from years ago and on a whim decided to listen to the audio version.
I didn't even know it was a true crime story.
The story as told is much more than just a crime novel.
There is a tremendous amount of backstory about each of the primary participants.
The story is heartbreaking - that it took almost ten years to finally get this case through the system.
For those that like crime I highly recommend this.
For those that like drama or just a really good story you too would enjoy.
A true story, this tale as told by Wambaugh finds two young robbers encountering two young policemen, in an onion field. The fatal shootings evolve into one of the longest and most convoluted trials in California history. It is a fascinating and tragic story - a real parody of crime and punishment. An excellent read.
Two police officers are brought to an onion field where one is executed.
The trial becomes the longest in Californian history as the question of just who fired four bullets into Officer Campbell is dissected in the minutest of detail.
That fateful night in the onion field destroyed the lives of all involved -Ian's murder, Karl's gradual sink into depression and petty crime as the trial dragged forever on, and Jimmy and Greg's battle, at all costs, to escape the gas chamber.
A powerful, complicated story with no easy answers - least of all who fired those four shots; the smell of onions may well make you weep.
I read this many years ago but I still remember how vividly the story unfolded, and how the pages drew me in and ultimately wrung me dry. It is a harrowing recounting of a true event. The author's experiences as a police officer lends credibility to the book, and Wambaugh's writing style is powerful and gritty. This was the first of many of his books that I read over time. Joseph Wambaugh quote: "The Onion Field made me a real writer. And then I knew it was over, I couldn't be a cop anymore."
Just a devastating book.
Just so sad.
There's so much about this book that just defies explanation.
All at once it examines America's sometimes defunct legal system, psychological effects of traumatic events that go unexamined or forced down, men who feel they are "instutional men," the inner workings to two sociopaths, and so much more.
Hard to believe this all actually happened, and I think after reading this I wish it was a fictional novel.
I'd rather believe that events like these don't happen every day in our country.
This is one I'll definitely be thinking about far into the future...
This was a true crime book where a police officer got killed. The book was very well written and never boring (as a few true crime books I've read over the years can be) some parts were very hard to read, as in gave me a strong emotional response, but then again those are some of the best books that can do that. I really don't want to give any of the book away, if you enjoy true crime books I recommend this one!
I read this way back in the 80s. Don't know why it's not on my page here. It was the first Wambaugh I'd read, and I think the only non-fiction I've read of his. None of his novels have ever impressed me the way this true story did.
To me personally, this book is comparable to. "In Cold Blood". Very well written and keeps you reading. I couldn't put it down sometimes. Just a great book, true crime fan or not.
BLUF: Good for those who like to know the background of all players and enjoy true crime that reads like a novel.Plot: The Onion Field is a nonfiction account of the kidnappings of Officers Ian Campbell and Karl Hettinger and murder of Ian Campbell by Gregory Ulas Powell and Jimmy Lee Smith.
Many years and trials later, Hettinger is the ghost of the man he once was.Contents: The Onion Field spends a significant portion detailing the backgrounds of the two officers as well as of the killers.
(The background material on Ian Campbell, Karl Hettinger, Gregory Powell and Jimmy Smith and the scenes with John Moore and Irving Kanarek would have greatly benefited from more aggressive editing.)The great strength of the book is the incredible detail of the crime followed by its aftermath on the participants.
There seemed to be something unusual about almost every main participant that had me wondering if it was a stylistic issue or if the author did a great job of capturing their quirks.

This book was disgusting. I read true crime but not necessarily the "theatrical" true crime books. This one was dark and the language was offensive and I couldn't even catch the story at time because I was so bothered with the wording and prison phrasing. I'm not easily offended, and I can look past language, but by 125 pages I threw it in the garbage. Sad, because I really wanted to know more.
This was recommended in several lists of the best true crime books ever.
The book is well-written and seems to be thoroughly researched, but I didn't find it a compelling read.
Part of this is due to my reading preferences: I discovered that I like true crime books that are written from the perspective of those who are trying to solve a crime instead of the perpetrators.
I also realized that the book seemed anticlimactic since there is never any doubt about the guilt of the perpetrators.
I think this author has a goal of writing literature rather than murder/police stories.
The major characters in this book are written about in great breadth although I believe the author was aiming for depth.
The first third of the book is extensive background on the two crooks and two police officers who come together in that onion Field.I am not sure if it is the words or the audible reading that is of the highest quality.
The rebirth of the police officer whose life had been seemingly irreparably damaged in just a few pages at the end was inexplicable Based on the details provided.
This is a book club read (The Little Laid Back Book Club on Goodreads, if anyone is interested) and not something I'd willingly choose to read myself.
A harrowing account of a terrible crime, the kidnap of two officers and the subsequent murder of one and hunt through dark countryside for the other, and then a show of post traumatic stress disorder.
The trial parts weren't as tedious as I thought they might be, only a little repetitive.Will I ever read another true crime story?
Though if I'm really honest, this was more about the frustrations of the American legal system in the 1960s than the crime.
Stunning. I now live near the scene of the crime and you would not recognize the area.
