https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5357.Skipping_Christmas
The story is simple enough: the only child of a family won't be home for Christmas, so the parents decide to treat themselves to a cruise instead of dealing with all the drama that comes along with the holiday and then the neighbors get super angry at them!!!!!This part got my hackles raised.
You're an adult, so you need to understand that you can't just expect people to drop whatever they are doing to accommodate you." is what the parents should have said instead of rushing around to set up the holiday for the air-headed daughter.Nevertheless, I still liked the book and read it just about every Winter since it's really short.
"Who would ever dream that two otherwise sensible adults would skip Christmas and go on a cruise?"It is a question posed by an idiot.
There are literally billions of people on Earth who do not celebrate Christmas.
With their grown daughter out of the nest, and facing a Christmas bill that runs to over $6,000 each holiday season, Luther has an inspired idea.
We know this because the lesson that Luther is forced to learn is that you don’t skip Christmas.
Nora and Luther both glanced at her first, then quickly looked beyond to see how dark Enrique was.
One of my favorite "Grisham" translations... Probably, because every Christmas I have the same idea/wish of skipping it! And being a child from a mixed marriage and having both Ortodox and Catholic Christmas does't help a thing! :) Same feeling goes for Easter :)
When we were kids, we decorated, because it was fun for my parents to see us excited about the holiday - but we never really did the Perfect Christmas thing as, apparently, people do.
Everyone in this book acted like it was, but that's because they're all nosy shit-heads who think that conformity and homogeneity makes a good neighborhood, and good neighbors are expected to participate in the festivities.
They all decorate, and all have Frostys (placement and date of set up dictated by that one neighbor who thinks he's King Shit of Turd Hill), they do the overpriced cards, have the big holiday party, make the same dinner every year, blah blah blah.
Plus, getting engaged and taking the fiance to a foreign country to meet her parents after knowing each other less than four weeks?
Really, Grisham, you put so little effort into this book that you can't even be bothered to have a decent plot device to have the Kranks give up their skipped Christmas?
I know this is supposed to be a book about the madness of the holiday season and crass consumerism or something, but, really, there's a line that most people walk between giving into the holiday frenzy and not doing a single Christmas-related thing.
An absolute horror-show of a book.
The two worst people in the entire world decide to not celebrate Christmas for a year and their Nazi suburban beehive neighbors treat them like they're hosting a donkey show in the front window.
There isn't a single character in this book who passes the basic test of decency.
The couple lie to their daughter and treat her like a non-person.
The neighborhood men are bullies.
The neighborhood women are a backbiting hen house.
Despite the faint glimmer of kindness in the last chapter, this book is a contemptable look at contemptable people.
A couple tries to skip Christmas and spend the money on a cruise instead.
The wife start an emergency Christmas, blaming her husband for not having Christmas this year.
They pull it off Christmas and give the cruise to their neighbor, whose wife has cancer and doesn't have long to live.The couple gave in to their adult daughter and protected her from knowing about their plans.
They should have told their daughter that they were grateful for her visit, but they had different plans this year and would be leaving on Christmas Day for a cruise.

Honestly, when I got to the ending, I thought "what was the point of this?" The author, it seemed, slapped two different concepts together and as a result, created a very disappointing book.
I was rooting for the Krunks to make it to the end.
I was very deflated at the end to see the Krunks cave.
There was no lesson in this except that when spoiling your daughter, no sacrifice or compromising of ideals or caving to the Stepford neighborhood is too much.
Author could have made a blistering commentary on the overblown excess of the season, and caved to it instead.
I adore holiday books, especially those centered around Christmas, but this is one I wish I had skipped.
At least it was short.First of all, I didn’t like anybody through 7/8 of the book.
Mr. Krank, is, well, a crank.
His wife agrees with his skipping Christmas idea but still manages to lay all the blame on him.
I would be jealous if someone I knew were taking a cruise for Christmas not angry.
I do think the Kranks were going a little overboard though.
La comedia está servida, porque la novela no es si no una chanza y crítica hacia la sociedad estadounidense, y su manera tan hortera de pasar las fiestas, celebrar cenas, regalos, invitaciones, dulces, y sí, las decoraciones tan estrafalarias para presentarse a los concursos del ayuntamiento.Y la historia será mucho más amena y divertida según pasan los capítulos, porque los Krank se llevarán más de una sorpresa, y al fin y al cabo, lo que se acerca es la Navidad.
This was a cute little Christmas themed book.
Very much looking forward to watching the movie, and could very distinctively feel Jaimie Lee Curtis losing her s@#t!I like to read a theme book every festive season, and this filled the spot nicely.
Regardless of calling off Christmas or not (which is what this couple decided to do), the Christmas they do do every year is way over the top.
I'm quite boring and love a tree, some nice decorations and a few tasteful lights.
No street themed snowmen and keeping up with the Jonses for me, thank you very much!Light hearted, fun and a little silly - just what you want at Christmas!
A light holiday read, this book actually makes me tear up at the end.
(Ignore the horrifying movie, Christmas with the Kranks, which was loosely based on it.) This is the story of a rather unlikeable guy who, with his only daughter away for Christmas, convinces his wife that they will actually save money and enjoy the holiday more if they "skip" Christmas and go on a cruise instead.
The main problem with this book is that Luther is almost too unlikeable.
He's fairly mean to his wife, is rude in the way he turns away people trying to get him to participate, and doesn't entirely change at the end.
I read this ASSuming that the film was based on a funnier, better characterized, more in depth holiday story of a couple attempting and failing to skip Christmas.
The entire presumptuous town basically abused this couple for not conforming to the status quo of commercialized Christmas and then only came to their rescue once they supposedly saw the light.
Luther was portrayed as a grinch like character who needed an attitude adjustment.
The book's ending should have been Luther running off with another woman to the Bahamas.Lastly, what was with all the racist comments regarding the Peruvian fiancé?
Disgusting people like these have ruined it.
Sinospsis super sintética: Tras despedir en el aeropuerto a su hija, una pareja llega a la conclusión de que la Navidad no será lo mismo sin ella y deciden saltearse la celebración.
Entiendo que buena parte del libro busca ser una crítica social ante el consumismo, el materialismo y todas las estupideces banales que giran en torno a la Navidad.
Y una de las peores cosas que tiene el libro, lo que más me hizo ruido al finalizar la lectura, es que en oportunidades se dejaban ver algunos comentarios sumamente racistas.
Mal por Grisham, y qué mala impresión me dejó con este primer libro que leo de su autoría.
I thought this book had a few funny parts, but I was also bored at times. Nothing really happened that you didn't expect. It was just an ok Christmas tale. I think if I could I would give it two and a half stars. In the Christmas spirit, I will push it up to three.
Delightful and different. I re-read this every year at Christmas time!
Truth be told, I've never read a John Grisham novel before this book. So this book made quite an impression. I know that his other books were obviously more serious that this one, but I really liked how this book turned out. Although how they celebrate Christmas here in the US is different than how we celebrate it back home, more or less, it's still the same, being with FAMILY and FRIENDS. And being grateful for the things that we have.
Skipping Christmas starts off with Luther and Nora Krank saying farewell at the airport to their daughter, Blair, as she departs to Peru to work for the Peace Corps.
This is the first year she won't be celebrating Christmas with her family.
Almost immediately afterward, Luther hatches a diabolical scheme - to skip celebrating Christmas altogether and depart on a cruise to the Caribbean instead, saving thousands of dollars in the process.
He's better known for his law and courtroom thrillers, and after reading Skipping Christmas I can clearly see why.The characters were all one-dimensional.
I'm sure that various people due to their religions and beliefs choose not to celebrate Christmas.

I must say that reading this in the summer did not make me all gushy and wistful for the hectic Christmas season which I suppose is the point of this book.Luther Krank is quite disgusted by the commercialism of Christmas and the thousands of dollars he wastes every year on the season.
Poor Luther just can't get a break and I plugged away hoping he’d eventually escape the madness and get to enjoy his well deserved vacation.This is a cute story about the ridiculousness of the Christmas season and the foolishness of rushing around like mad-people.
That waned after the tenth book in a row written with the Grisham “David & Goliath” formula, so I remember the excitement that THIS book would be different.
Careful what you wish for…This had its funny moments.
I think we've all wanted to skip Christmas at some point and the lengths to which the Kranks go to make that happen are funny.
Behind the funny though was discomfort for me.
This was my library’s book club selection for December and the book was so blah that we were finished discussing in about 20 minutes.
What can I say, the concept of skipping Christmas entirely and going on a cruise instead just speaks to my Grinch-y soul.This year I opted to re-read the audiobook version which is narrated by Dennis Boutsikaris who portrays Luther Krank perfectly in all his deadpan humorous glory.
Many of you have likely seen the film adaptation Christmas with the Kranks which is all sorts of hilarious (especially with the book lacking that sidesplitting scene after Luther gets botox), but this short novel is an amusing way to spend a few hours surrounded by Christmas cheer as you contemplate an alternative to it all.
All the trials and tribulations Nora and Luther face seemed a bit too much, their supposed friends and colleagues not being even remotely supportive.
It was, for a fair chunk of the story, tracking for a two star rating, but the Christmassy ending boosted its overall likability.
Certainly very christmas oriented, this one should get you in the Christmas spirit if you can make it to the end.
This because the main-character acts totally different then I would have.
Social-control at it's worst, grrrr anyhow, I can't stand it..A family decides to skip christmas for a year to visit (Florida?).
The neighbourhood which every year celebrates this with a certain tradition, can't stand the fact the family "just" not participate.
but after all I liked this book.
Totally different as The Firm (which is good, but is also more serious), and it reads easily.
Unfortunately I bought a secondhand "Skipping Christmas" where pages were loosening while reading.
This says enough I liked it.
A long time ago I used to read John Grisham.
A lot of John Grisham.
So, I thought this book might be a safe (and also easy) choice for book club.
Unfortunately, this book was surprisingly terrible.
It was so bad that it might just be the standard by which to judge all other terrible books.
Underdeveloped, shallow characters, pointless diatribe, a complete lack of conviction, and a splash of random racism combine to make this a book you should probably avoid.And, what's worse is, the more I think about this book, the more I hate it.
2018: read this with my husband. It’s an enjoyable and entertaining read all the way through.2016: Loved this book so much. Now I have a book hangover. I need another just as heartwarming and page turning. This will be an annual read. I loved the movie, the book is better, of course. Simply delightful!
(To the tune of 'How the Grinch Stole Christmas.')You're a weird one, Mr. Grisham. You've penned a comic tale.It's a holiday disaster. It's a hopeless humor fail.That apes The Grinch! This silly story of an accountant rejecting Christmas... is amusement's coffin's nail.You tried to branch out, Mr. Grisham. You're the king, of legal thrills.But it turns out schmaltz and parody were not among your skills.Says this Grinch! And I wouldn't read it again... if you paid all my bills.Note: It's not THAT bad. But I was in a grinchy mood when I wrote this.Edited 10/27/2018
I've often thought about skipping all the insanity of Christmas and just going off somewhere quiet to relax, recharge and drink mai-tais, but of course family guilt and obligation has always made that impossible.
Not having children, I didn't feel the maternal impulse to suddenly drop all my plans and rearrange my life for my spoiled brat daughter who decided to come home at the last minute and expected everything to be the way it always was.
Just one Christmas without all the BS?
I was actually tearing up in the car on the way to work as I finished it this morning!
This was an excellent book! It rather reminded me of A Man Called Ova. I was glad there was no emphasis on religion, but rather how each of us conducts our daily life and interactions with those we know, especially within our own neighborhoods. This one had me laughing! But it was also rather poignant. Glad I was able to gift a copy to each of my book club members for this year.
