https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7600924-forbidden
That's just genetics.Sorry, I just seriously can't stop with the Star Wars thing.I suggest that only MATURE teens read this.It would be completely accurate for me to say that I have NEVER read a book like this in my life.
I already wanted to do all kinds of naughty things without having an influence like this in my life, and I know that if I had read it before I had matured hormonally - I would have rushed out and tried to seduce the first "off limits" guy I could find.
This book deals with things that not every teen needs to or would want to read about.
Meet Kit---A 13 year old being corroded away by pain,bitterness and hatred.He does everything to refute authority.Does everything to drive Lochan mad.Meet Tiffin---A beautiful,spirited young boy who has to beg for every scrap of attention from his mother.He knows that when Maya tells him that their Mom actually cares about them,she's lying.Meet Willa--
Readers,I will not try to justify their love.Because no matter however I present it, it will be a difficult concept to grasp.
"There are no laws,no boundaries on feelings.We can love each other as much and as deeply as we want.No one,Maya,no one can ever take that away from us."
After reading recent comments, I feel the need to stress an important point about this book: it is not about accepting incest. It's not a book like Flowers in the Attic or How I Live Now where incest is romanticised. It is a sad story about the danger of dysfunctional families and should never be regarded as another angsty tale of forbidden love, even though the title suggests otherwise.So, first let me say that this was a very brave book to tackle such a controversial subject matter and the au
After reading recent comments, I feel the need to stress an important point about this book: it is not about accepting incest.
But "Forbidden" tells the tale of two teenagers, Lochan (17 - later 18) and Maya (16), who both go to school with other people their own age, including plenty from the opposite sex but they have been forced to live quite unlike their other schoolmates when at home.
Willa, though seemingly a sweetheart, was only their to reinforce the idea that Maya and Lochan were like parental figures, not siblings.Ending: If my review was of the ending alone then the book would have got 5 stars without a doubt.
I don't think there is a message in this book as far as "it's ok to do X or Y given Z circumstance." I do not feel that the author is trying to impose some sort of morality or send a message of acceptance of incest.
What I can say is that this book sold me on the idea of Lochan and Maya, and how their relationship eventually wound up to what it was.I think it's a lot harder for people to accept the idea of contemporary incest.
Lochan and Maya are best friends who have known each other their entire lives and have helped each other and fiercely loved one another through the many brutally painful experiences of growing up.The thing is, they also happen to be brother and sister, and the unholy mess of the repercussions from their choices looms over this entire story.No one who picks up a book like this can be unaware of the potential pitfalls.
So Wrong It's Right... Shit. This book was... Shit. I’m at a loss of words, so emotionally drained that I am actually cursing. And I never Curse. Period. So shit.This book reminds me of Thirteen Reasons Why by Jay Asher; not in the story, they are total and complete opposites, but the same feeling afterwards. A hollow in me, at the pit of my stomach, hands shaking and my heart nowhere in sight. It was an Amazing book. Not the kind of amazing where I’m jumping up and down begging you to read it,
In my words, here’s how I see it: There’s a line between brothers and sisters.
So it was only a matter of time that this line dissipated and they fell in love with each other.This may all sound so disgusting but I never felt repulsed during the book, and I think this is what made it Amazing.
I don’t think my review does any justice to this book but.
you should just read it.Wow.After the initial shock review:I still feel the hollow, and it hurts to think of the book.
In fact, as I write this review days later I'm still not sure exactly what to make of this story.Lochan and Maya have been forced to grow up too quickly.
As a result, Lochan and Maya have a relationship that more closely resembles that of a husband and wife than that of a brother and sister.Since I knew where this story was heading from the start, I wasn't surprised at all when the siblings' relationship started to take on a more romantic feel.
Right to the end, they sacrificed for their younger siblings.Of course, this is not that kind of story.
I would like to believe that this book is a stroke of literary genius in which the author masterfully makes use of unreliable, self-deceived narrators to thrust us into and examine their solipsistic minds, subverting the usual use of sympathetic and unsympathetic characters to powerful effect.
Similarly, the characters’ (Maya in particular) preoccupation with how their love transcends sibling bonds also felt like a manipulative reach for sympathy.
Which is realistic, of course, but felt at odds with the way I thought the story was trying to present them as an object of tragedy.
Throw out your moral compass and pick up this book When I read what this story was about I was weirded out beyond belief...
I will warn you that this book did start off slow, took around 120 pages to start picking up.
Never in my life did I think 1) I would read a book about incest or 2) that I would read a book about incest and end up in tears.
The ending of this book has me so shell shocked and I don't think that feeling is going to be something I'll be able to shake off anytime soon.
It helps when you get to the crying part :)TogetherFirst of all I have to tell you that what I am going to write will not please a lot of people.So don't agree with me.Don't read.Don't comment.I don't care.This book was so powerful I simply do not care if somebody thinks that what I feel is wrong.Ironic, given that if something is or isn't wrong is a big part of the theme of this work.The book made me feel alive.Maybe somethings, like the charges against Lochi were puffed up out of proportion.
But I absolutely PROMISE you, after reading their story, you will be wishing they could have a happy ending.With a self-centered, uncaring, and alcohlic mother and a father who abandoned their family years ago, siblings Lochan (17) and Maya (16) have always felt more like friends than siblings – being the defacto parents to their 3 younger siblings – 13-year-old Kit who is unhappy, self-destructive, and rebelling against life, mischevious little brother Tiffin, and sweet adorable baby sister Willa who is too young to understand the desperation all around her.
I truly believe not just any author could have taken this taboo subject and delivered it with such flawless execution that you begin to root for the main characters as they make choices and feel emotions that are so NOT socially, or legally, acceptable.Forbidden takes the reader into the lives of Lochan and Maya Whitely.
To anyone that feels this is disgusting, I challenge you to read this book because believe me, it's insane to feel or see yourself seamlessly accepting and rooting for two people as they cross that forbidden boundary.I don’t know what else to say but that I don't regret reading this book one bit and I certainly don't feel guilty about my feelings for the main characters and their choices.
Y que además esto conllevaría a la disolución de la familia y que llevaran a sus hermanos a hogares de acogida.Hasta el último momento estuve esperando a que la madre se arrepintiera y confesara que Lochan o Maya no eran hijos de ella, pero eso no forma parte de la historia.Yo me imaginaba que tenía que terminar en tragedia, que no podía tener un final feliz, pero nunca me podría haber imaginado como quedó.----If we ignore the subject of incest and forbidden, this would have been a beautiful love story.But is not.It's a devastating story when two brothers fall madly in love with each other.This situation was simply due to the family complications in which they live.
The second book this year to make me bawl my eyes out (the first was Code Name Verity, by Elizabeth Wein). I've never seen such a taboo topic like sibling incest handled in such a poignant and heartwrenching way. It's a testament to Ms. Suzuma's skill that I found myself desperately wishing for Maya and Lochan to be together. Simply amazing.

4.5 starsI have NO idea who allowed this to get published in the YA genre.
It's risky, disturbing, and altogether, a masterpiece.
A book that tugs on the heart strings, and definitely veered in a direction I wasn't expecting.The reason I took off half a star is because this book was a bit "borderline" for me.
Borderline too cheesy.
Borderline too unrealistic.
However, this was written so beautifully and and it is so different than anything I've ever read before, I have to give it credit.(also i'm upset because I didn't cry reading this book and I was so expecting that I would.
"How can something so wrong feel so right?"  AMAZING.HEARTBREAKING.BEAUTIFUL.POWERFUL.AND SAD. SO, SO SAD...Forbidden was not an easy story to read. In fact, reading it was a real struggle at times. It made my heart ache and my eyes hurt with unshed tears. Until the very end, when the tears eventually did flow freely.But in the end, it was all worth it, because Forbidden was such a thoughtprovoking, powerful and emotional story and despite all the anguish and heartbreak in it, it's easily one
Until the very end, when the tears eventually did flow freely.But in the end, it was all worth it, because Forbidden was such a thoughtprovoking, powerful and emotional story and despite all the anguish and heartbreak in it, it's easily one of the best books I've ever read.
Lochie has to be one of the most tragic, loveable and unforgettable characters I've ever come across (view spoiler)[which made reading how his life ended at the end of the story, all the more heartbreaking.
My second time reading this one was no easier than the first, in fact... it may have been more difficult. I would like to say I would never read this again, its too hard, but I know I will. One of my favorite books ever, it’s not an easy read, and it’s not for everyone, but I still stand by this: The most beautiful book I have ever read. LOVE IT! Lochie and Maya are unforgettable characters. This is an incredible and unforgettable story.  My original review posted 12.5.12:You can close your eye
After being abandoned by their father, and having a absent mother, who spends way more time with her younger boyfriend than at home, Lochie and Maya bear the responsibility of running the household and caring for their three younger siblings.
I wanted nothing for than for Lochie and Maya to be able to be together, love each other and have a happy ending.
I want to be able to hold you and kiss you and- and do all the things people in love are allowed to do.
I am legitimately sobbing right now. Silent tears.I just need a couple days to collect my thoughts for review. This is honestly a book that will stick with me for the rest of my life.
This book, IMO, is the equivalent to a daytime drama* ~ complete with sappy character names (Lochan, Maya, Kit, Tiffin and Willa are the children), over-wrought "true love" sentiments, parental issues of alcoholism, abandonment and abuse, and an oh-my-gosh extreme climax (designed either to make a statement or just for forbidden love shock angle?).The love Lochan feels for Maya (his sister) is all-consuming.
Ένα βιβλίο που σου προκαλεί ποικίλα και μπερδεμένα συναισθήματα.Η συγκίνηση, η κατάπληξη, η οργή, ο 
Estoy en shock, estoy impresionada, estoy emocionada, estoy destrozada, tengo todos los sentimientos a flor de piel. Una historia trágica, triste, desgarradora, increíble. Un libro que se debe leer con la mente muy abierta Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
I am kinda tired of reading about contemporary "forbidden" stories as I always find a way for the characters to be together, I never feel their love is really that forbidden but this book tells us a story about something really forbidden by the society, by the world we live in...
You might want to read this from the author, she explains why she wrote this book and she tells how she also had to take care of her younger siblings:http://tabithasuzuma.blogspot.com.es/...
No one, Maya, no one can ever take that away from us" *Their Ashmoore Park moment:*The love they have for their younger siblings.
greg, upon hearing i was reading this, volunteered to write a YA book about "a teen that fucks a dead dog." that one would be harder to pull off without crossing that poor taste line.
lochan and maya are two older teens raising up their three younger siblings while their single mom goes out trying to make up for all the fun she missed out on while she was stuck making all of them.
despite being some kind of academic star, he has some pretty seriously stunted emotional development and difficulty communicating outside of the family.

It is a fantastic book, it makes you HURT, it makes you THINK, QUESTION; and I am sure it causes controversies for many people.I know that is classified as a young-adult book, but despite the fact that the main characters are teenagers I don’t really think that young-adults are the best audience, in fact I believe this book can be better understood, savored and felt if the readers are adults.
There are two reasons I didn't give Forbidden 5 stars:1-	I saw the end coming a mile away since there was no other way left for the resolution of the book.2-	 In my opinion, it could have been much much better with a slightly different end.
I don't know how to rate this book so therefore I'm not going to.
I can say that it is very well written.
The author is incredibly talented.
To draw such emotion through an extremely taboo topic takes pure talent.
I couldn't do it because I'm just not that good.
The children in this story have such a sad but unfortunately real situation.
The fact the two eldest of the five kids fall in love does bother me.
I couldn't accept it.
BUT that doesn't mean it wasn't a heart wrenching story.
If you like tear jerkers then this is the book for you.
“How can something so wrong feel so right?”   Don’t bring children to the world if you don’t want them, or won't take good care of them!  * For both mothers and fathers.3.5 stars because I predicted things that would happen along the last 20% of the book.Buddy read with my fav, Amira! (Click if you want to check out her review).TRIGGER-WARNING: Abuse (emotional) and incest.This book has an interesting and heart-breaking topic to discuss  "Love between siblings, especially between a brother and
* For both mothers and fathers.3.5 stars because I predicted things that would happen along the last 20% of the book.Buddy read with my fav, Amira!
(Click if you want to check out her review).TRIGGER-WARNING: Abuse (emotional) and incest.This book has an interesting and heart-breaking topic to discuss 
When you read it you feel that Lochan and Maya are like parents to their younger siblings.
I felt connected to this character and how it is so realistic.
When you read more and more through the book you will feel how bad this character is made.
And love is always a good reason to read a book.
I'm all for books that are different and play with dark themes.
But if you like me, have preference for books in which love is challenged, where the characters have to fight for their love, you have to read this.This book is a perfect example that the YA genre is more than what people give it credit for.
I found this book to be more awe-inspiring than many books in which the main character is an adult.
Read it if you want something different and full of love.
Falling in love only complicates matters - their relationship is sinful yet impossible to stop, and they will do whatever it takes to keep it hidden while allowing it continue...Incest.
It takes some serious courage to write a book like Forbidden, and Tabitha Suzuma managed to not only make it thought-provoking, but emotionally moving as well.Lochan and Maya's romance was beautiful.
Also, if Lochan and Maya had been raised in a "normal" household, would they still have turned out the way they did?
One thing I do believe for sure is that Lochan and Maya's love was just as valid as any other couples', if not more so.
