https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114841.Innovation_and_Entrepreneurship
So let me summarize the main points of this chapter:1- the characteristics of knowledge-based innovation:a.
first, even after a careful analysis, knowledge-based innovation remain unpredictable and turbulent (see also Moore’s books about the chasm and the tornado), and this is linked to its characteristics above; this has two important implication:i.
But there is no way, you can really plan the success of knowledge-based innovations.The end of the book is quite good, in particular its conclusion: “The first priority in talking about public policies is to define what will not work: Planning is actually incompatible with an entrepreneurial society and economy.
Even though this book is relatively old, its principles apply in every era. Drucker presents innovation as an ageless art form, in which all that changes is the approach. Any business owner, or out of the box thinker, should definitely read this book.
As always, Peter Drucker is one of my favourites on the subject. A book from the 80s that still a great read today, on a very changing and challenging subject such as entrepreneurship, is a sole indicator of how great the book is.
Institutions, by contrast, need cultural roots to grow and to prosper.- Clever innovative strategy always fails, particularly if it is aimed at exploiting an opportunity created by a change in industry structure.
Swan, the scientist, invented a product; Edison produced an industry.- Even when based on meticulous analysis, endowed with clear focus, and conscientiously managed, knowledge-based innovation still suffers from unique risks and, worse, an innate unpredictability.- For a long time, there is awareness of an innovation about to happen but it does not happen.
- High tech is not profitable for a very long time.- To be successful, a knowledge-based innovation needs receptivity to it.
Innovation and Entrepreneurship is about how to find opportunities to innovate, how to manage entrepreneurship within an organization, and how to manage entrepreneurial strategy in the market.In each of these three major sections, Drucker presents frameworks that help organize your thoughts.
For example, he proposes seven sources of innovation opportunities, like The Unexpected, Process Needs, and New Knowledge.
Drucker seems to be an authoritative source upon which later thinkers have built their ideas (and careers).That said, the book itself was not an enjoyable read.
If you want to understand innovation, read this book as many newer books build on top of its ideas.
Reading this book by Peter Drucker should dispel this notion totally.
Not only is innovation and entrepreneurship something that can be measured but it is something that can be learned.The book initially provides definitions of what innovation and entrepreneurship is, what the different types and aspects of each are and where they are most likely to occur.
Drucker then continues on with an analysis of how these factors can be fostered within any business.This is great book if you are looking to improve you business as it provides concrete analysis and steps you can take to encourage and promote innovation and entrepreneurship in your business.
Incompetence, after all, is the only thing in abundant and never-failing supply.""Entrepreneurship is not "natural"; it is not "creative." It is work.""Everything takes longer than we hope or estimate; everything also requires more effort.""To render an existing business entrepreneurial, management must take the lead in making obsolete its own products and services rather than waiting for a competitor to do so.""The forces that impede entrepreneurship and innovation in a public-service institution are inherent in it, integral to it, inseparable from it.""In so many new ventures, especially high-tech ventures, the techniques discussed in this chapter are spurned and even despised.
the imperative of innovation is therefore to go out and look, to ask, to listen.
It thus takes special effort for the existing business to become entrepreneurial and innovative."(pg.
150)In order to make an existing business "greedy for new things" we need to "face up to the fact that all existing products, services, markets, distributive channels, processes, technologies, have limited- and usually short- health and life expectancies."(pg.
The correct assumption in an entrepreneurial society is that individuals will have to learn new things well after they have become adults- and maybe more than once.
Although Drucker's seminal contributions have shaped how large corporations in the US and Japan are managed, this work looks at a full spectrum of companies from large to small, and describes the kinds of innovation that succeed.Drucker delights at debunking conventional wisdom or frequent mistakes -- for example, pointing out that technology driven innovation has the least chance of success for its initiator.
I look forward to learning more from Drucker's other works as well as eventually re-reading this book as I apply its observations to a new set of companies I'm trying to understand.Highly recommended as both enjoyable and useful reading.
This book would have earned another star if more of the examples had been drawn from the recent past.
There were enough timeless examples from the past couple hundred years to make it a worthwhile read, though.Some useful points:*Look for the surprise successes and exploit them.
It's what the customer gets out and is willing to pay for.*"Premium" prices invite competitors.
Getting there first with most (e.g. vitamin company that acquired formulas, patents in the 1920s before vitamins were popular and became huge as vitamins did become popular)2.
I found it dated. Lean Startup is a more modern view of the topic.
Long before the Innovator's Dilemma was written, here is Drucker with the same insights about why innovation must be treated as a special child by management, and the challenges faced by it in existing corporations. This review was written after I read the book for the second time (I had read it previously a few years back), and it is incredible how the contents seem more meaningful and relevant on the second reading.
This is a very authoritative introduction to the subject of innovation. It is very well-written, although a bit heavy at points. Drucker has made an important contribution, as usual. The part on sources of innovation is very good and also exists as an HBR article.
Honestly a bit boring, but nevertheless it is smart, some stories and examples are really make you interested. The material just need to be presented better.
The necessary link between to essential disciplines required for the 21st century business enterprise
We already know how many started and where they are now--so, we do have much to choose from.Many business--some of them with more that 100 years of "experience" have disappeared--Somehow Montgomery Ward comes to mind--and also, quite interesting, now Sears seems to be dancing on the same rope for the last few years.
In fact--some experts do not think they will be present next year--However, they too have been saying that for few years back already.Sears is an ideal company that should start innovating in all areas--and we can safely say they are not starters.
This is one of those seminal landmark business books that need to be read and digested.
Although the book is somewhat outdated in its examples, the principles are still relevant to today's entrepreneurs and innovators.
Many of the companies cited in this 1986 book are either no longer with us and newer companies like Apple are barely mentioned.
Take notes.He also recommends other books to read-but note that we're still in the early 1980s before the advent of the smart phone in every household.
It would certainly help our system if politicians and bureaucrats alike were to read his books.
Great Great book.Simple and based on principles.Peter Drucker is about principles. And it is very much exciting to hear from Peter Drucker, What he thinks about innovation and entrepreneurship.It is very helpful for managers and budding entrepreneurs to understand some basic principles.Book is little heavy as it is written by the father figure in management. But it serves the great purpose of educating one self with the basic knowledge of new ventures.Old, but good examples are cited by Drucker. It captures the gist and one can apply analogy to the current market.
While one may no longer agree with everything in the book, Drucker's classic has withstood the passage of 30+ years since its initial publication incredibly well. A highly recommended read whether one works in a large organization or startup setting, as an owner or manager. Thought provoking and provides a good methodical framework for identifying and exploiting new markets.
Fascinating, rigorous book. Very detailed and dense in a good way. In spite of this book being slightly old, there are numerous very useful insights on entrepreneurship and innovation here. I will definitely be going back to reference this book for many years into the future. Also looking forward to reading more of Drucker's work.
Some things evergreen, some obsolete Overall this is still a must read for economic development professionals, as there is quite a bit of sage advice that’s still applicable decades later. There are some ideas and examples that are obsolete though.
This book is more like a history book, where Drucker shows historical examples where innovation prevailed. There are also parts where Drucker instructs what he thinks is key to successful bussiness.A book worth a read.
May be the first ever book to take the route of practicing entrepreneurship, making policies and putting innovation into the roots of the company...as it is needed in 21st Century...
classic Drucker wisdom
Might need to re-read as I felt the content to be as accessible as I thought.
Another great book from the prophet of management. A good read even with the benefit of hindsight, because you can contrast and compare old methods and theories with current practices.
This is an incredible book. The data and examples may be dated, but this is a must-read for anyone starting a business. A framework for entrepreneurship.
I have been refusing innovation and entrepreneurship books just because of the same reasons Drucker sanctions them in his book: they are pretentious and of little practical use if you are to try replicating any of the ideas.
Drucker got me on his side from that moment all the read through.The major achievement of this book is to present innovation as a management practice rather than any imposed threat to the business.
Interesting look back at the mid to later 20th century business environment.
Một nửa đầu cuốn sách đã được tác giả ưu ái sử dụng để đưa ra những chỉ dẫn rõ ràng về cách thức và nguồn gốc tìm kiếm cơ sở cho sự đổi mới - cho quá trình khởi nghiệp.
Hơn nữa, đổi mới là một công việc, chứ không hoàn toàn mang tính trực giác, khó hiểu như người ngoài nhìn vào.Phần thứ hai là về những hoạt động để tiến hành khởi nghiệp - đổi mới trong ba môi trường với những đòi hỏi khác nhau.
