https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13522285-the-beginning-of-everything
Ezra is quickly forced to find himself – true him that lies beneath all the false smiles and tennis backhands – and although he attributes much of his change to Cassidy, the new girl who is different and turns his life around, he eventually learns that his growth was all his own.
Ezra, while undergoing a fantastic journey, is the only strong character in a novel filled with strangely absentee (and conveniently rich) parents, stereotypical jocks, empty-headed blondes, and under-developed secondary characters.
I hate the double standards placed on girls and with The Beginning of Everything, these don’t even end with Charlotte.
I hate how this book conveniently places characters into tidy little boxes.
If you have finished the book, please feel free to inform me that I got it all wrong.Anyway, this is the way it goes in those first few chapters.
Hot guy starts out with an equally hot, mean, bitchy and shallow girlfriend who doesn't appreciate him and cheats with another guy because she's such a slut.Guy is...And wants a nice, well-behaved girl who is nothing like all the others with their "blond hair, lots of makeup, stupidly expensive handbags".
But she's sweet and innocent and most of all she doesn't knoooow-oh-oh, she don't know she's beautiful!I really do hope I got this all wrong and please tell me if I did.
The first few pages recount a horrifying situation that is bound to shock anyone, and already I could put myself in their shoes and feel it changing these boys for life.
Then shortly after, we're brought into the second shock of the book: the accident that changed Ezra's life.The Beginning of Everything is narrated by Ezra, a one-time golden boy who's now feeling out of place with his cane and worthless self image.
Throughout this book Ezra searches for himself, and finds what he needs to find in the most realistic, though not easiest, of way.
As the year goes by, Ezra will have to contemplate whether his  huge  life tragedy has already hit him or if there’s much more misfortune in the nearby future.
Schneider was really able to pick his brain and offer us a character that was real and witty and tragic and an-all-around-goof.Throughout the entire book, I was just waiting for another tragedy to strike.
“I pictured her tragically; it never once ocurred to me to picture her as the tragedy.” 3.5 stars!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Need a contemporary to lighten my heart and bring back the sap in my lifePLEASE LET THIS ONE BE GOOD!!!
Otherwise, I can’t imagine someone actually thinking this is a good novel.I read a review where the writer said this is the perfect book for the average tumblr user, and that is just so completely accurate (this also makes sense when you consider the fact that in the author's biography it describes her as an “internet personality”…).This story caters to “nerds” by writing a main character who goes from being a textbook example of a Popular Guy to a textbook example of a Cool Nerd.
Hmm...can't decide between 3.5 or 4 stars...but in that range somewhere." I think that everyone has a tragedy waiting for them, that the people buying milk in their pajamas or picking their noses at stoplights could be only moments away from disaster.
At the beginning of his senior year of high school, he meets new girl Cassidy Thorpe, who helps to turn his world upside down.This book is about Ezra's journey to discover who he is.
Glad I got to experience Ezra's journey with him!Upon reflection, I'll put the rating at a solid 4 stars, because there were numerous Harry Potter references throughout.
They are shallow, immature, emotionally crippled and selfish with little to no care about any of the other characters.
Neither really ended up making me care about the characters, but the second one made me hate them.I got this book in order to give me something like John Green, and it has been compared to his works a lot.
If you like John Green, don't read this.
Also, if you hate John Green, you will also want to avoid reading this.
I wanted to reach out and slap my iPhone each time he switched genders.I really wanted it to be fun and emotionally charged.
The Beginning of Everything by Robyn Schneider is a book about a boy named Ezra Faulkner.
Third this book was like eating a handful of Valentine's Day candy; it was so sweet.
Third this book was like eating a handful of Valentine's Day 
I imagine it's hard for a writer to really make a character develop so much in one book but Robyn Schneider makes it look effortless.
Character development isn't the only thing that is strong in this book...
As far as the sub characters in this book, they are as amazing as Ezra especially Toby.
What an amazing, quirky read this was. I can’t even begin to explain the premise of the story. But it’s about friendship, and realising who your true friends are, that it is much more valuable to be true to yourself rather than trying to fit yourself into a mould, that love really does assist in fixing things but that ultimately, the love you give yourself is what’ll allow you to truly live life to the fullest. That you are enough.
That everyone's life, no matter how unremarkable, has a moment when it will become extraordinary-a single encounter after which everything that really matters will happen.Ezra Faulkner thought he had everything.
Toby and Ezra were best friends but as years passed they drifted apart...
(wait until you hear about his big tragedy!) Ezra to the popular table and Toby to the debate team.
Maybe it was the first person narrative, maybe it was the dialogue, maybe it was the characters themselves, which even though I finished this book early yesterday, I'm still thinking about.The best part of this story though for me, is definitely Ezra.
*3.5 Stars*  I thought about the metal in my knee, replacing this piece of me that was missing, that no longer worked. And it wasn't my heart, I kept telling myself. It wasn't my heart.  Ah, okay...so. So. I'm going to venture out and say I have no clue what I want to say. There. Simple. I said it. Except...I had so much to say. I had little notes written here and there and I found some great enjoyment and humor from page one to the end. And then there was so much sadness entwined in each layer
It hurt like a mother fucker that my best friend, the girl who had spent the night at my house for a whole summer while we stayed up 'til 4 AM watching scary movies and binge-drinking Mountain Dew (except when we had a game the next day!), had iced me out, was spreading rumors about me, talking behind my back, and generally trying to make my life a living hell-and it was-internally.
I am not comparing myself to Ezra, I think he was a little skewed on his thoughts of who he should hang out with and why...but it felt right to mention that, even when things aren't going the way you want them to, it might not be the worst thing to happen to you, nor is it the end of the world.
2.5 stars overall, I feel this book tries too hard.
it tries to be meaningful and moving but, ultimately, it feels like a subpar imitation of a john green novel.
she strives too hard to be different and she consistently irritated me.
she loves going on adventures and weaves flower crowns and dresses in vintage dresses--the same as any other girl who is meant to be depicted as "different." the plot was on the boring side and proved to be ridiculously predictable.
on a positive note, the writing is lovely and the secondary characters are great (particularly Toby and Phoebe).
Of course, if that’s how you would like to view it, and then move on with your life, I can understand where you are coming from, and respect your decision.
And I respected and admired his decision.Cassidy Thorpe might have more than a few pairs of boy shorts and button down shirts in her possession, but she’s beautiful on the inside and out, even if she has a slightly different perception of herself in the bathroom mirror.
And, yes, I may have looked at her with a bit more than just fond affection.I sucked this novel up through a straw in three days’ time, and the teenager inside of me (and all of us) was more than happy with my decision.
I had so much fun reading it, and there were times when I was desperate to keep going even though I knew I needed to get back to my school work.
Nothing I read was particularly new to me (this was very reminiscent of John Green's work), but that doesn't mean I didn't enjoy it.
I gave books like 'We Were Liars' 5 stars because I had never really read anything like it and I was absolutely blown away and left feeling like an utter mess afterwards.
3 to 4 stars I liked it as much as I liked Looking for Alaska.
I think both books seem to be talking about similar themes and even some of the patterns and characters are a bit similar though I would have to say that reading this book is a bit lighter than reading LFA maybe because of the more familiar high school cliches in this book.
But despite mentioning the existence of high school cliches in this book, I still liked this.
This is another young adult novel that implicitly helps or teaches readers how to go through and move past unpleasant realities of life.
Der Protagonist Ezra war zu Beginn des Buches beliebt und hat diese Beliebtheit auch genossen.
Ich bin jemand, der sich sehr schwer damit tut, meine einmal gebildete Meinung über Charaktere (übrigens auch über Menschen im Real Life) wieder zu ändern, weshalb Bücher dieser Art meist gar nichts für mich sind.
Ihn hat der Unfall verändert und nicht die Meinung seiner Mitmenschen.
Ich mochte beide auch sehr gern.Leider ist es trotzdem so, dass das Buch Längen hatte.
Zu Beginn habe ich mit den Freunden von Ezra gekämpft, die bis zum Ende auch sehr blass und klischeehaft blieben, aber im Laufe des Buches gab es auch sehr viele Stellen, die schlicht langweilig gewesen sind.
I picked up this book solely off of my love for Robyn Schneider's latest novel, Extraordinary Means, aching to see if her other works were just as good.
I couldn't help but feel like there was no point to Ezra's story--certainly there was no excitement to it--and by the time the text reached a crest (which was pages from the end), I was too bored to care about it.
This is a novel that is enough to past the time by if you have a great deal of patience, but it is also easily forgettable and mediocre in every other way.
Ugh. This ended up being such a disappointment. For the first 2/3rds of this book I was cruising steady at 4 stars, but it just totally fell apart at the end. I have no idea what even happened or why. So unsatisfying.
“There’s a big difference between deciding to leave and knowing where to go.”  Honestly, I don’t know what to feel about this book. It doesn’t really make an impact for me as I expected. The story revolves when Ezra Faulkner had an accident that made his other leg disabled. From a famous tennis player and a heartthrob to a simple student now. Everything changes the day he became incapacitated, the popularity, parties, the tennis team, and even friends. Until Cassidy “The Mysterious” Thorpe c
It doesn’t really make an impact for me as I expected.
Until Cassidy “The Mysterious” Thorpe came, and it made his life worthy again.As I wrote earlier, the story has no impact on me from the beginning until the end.
1. The story doesn’t seem to grow from the start until the end.
I know you will agree with me, books that will turn your world into extraordinary will leave a special place in your heart.
No impact made, both main characters or not.3.
I tried to put my emotions to the story especially with the characters.
A couple scenes did have me tearing up and everything coming together at the end with Ezra's accident surprised me...
didn't see that coming.Cassie grew on me some after awhile, it felt like we never got to know her fully...
The ending wasn't picture perfect and fit nicely with who Ezra had become so that won it a few points as well :).“Sometimes I think that everyone has a tragedy waiting for them, that the people buying milk in their pajamas or picking their noses at stoplights could be only moments away from disaster.
3.5/5 starsThis was a really enjoyable read! I enjoyed it.At the beginning it felt a lot like it was trying too hard, and there were parts of the book that felt like that it was trying to be a really deep and meaningful book. Overall, though, it was a really enjoyable contemporary and I liked the characters a lot! I would probably read it again.
Robyn Schneider's novel underwent a title change from Severed Heads, Broken Hearts to The Beginning of Everything.
Ezra Faulkner theorizes that no one's life really begins until they go through a personal tragedy.
For the rest of high school, Toby will be that kid with the severed head.
Ezra never read like a girl to me, but neither was his narrative over the top in an effort to sell his maleness.
However, if you deem puns fine humor, you may well laugh your head off (don't worry; Toby will catch it for you).The romance in The Beginning of Everything falls a bit into manicpixiedreamgirl territory, but it works.
I felt like this book was misleading.
The first 3 chapters were really good but after that, I felt like the plot shifted and focused too much on Ezra and Cassidy's relationship.
Also, I did not like Cassidy.
She didn't seem like a believable character to me.
I couldn't figure out why Ezra was so intrigued by her?
This book just never got "off the ground" for me.
Robyn Schneider's writing-style saved me from rating this book lower.
Overall, I don't hate this book but it's not what I thought it was going to be.
OCT. 27, 2012 and there it is..... the cover.Very nice. pretty cool.
Before I go into this review I'd just like to point out that I much prefer the old name, Severed Heads, Broken Hearts which also happens to be the UK/AUS title, I mean it describes this book perfectly in the most direct and indirect ways.Golden boy Ezra Faulkner believes he has just encountered his worst tragedy ever.
Ezra and Toby, two of the main characters in Severed Heads, Broken Hearts also happen to be two of the leads in Pretty Little Liars.
Not that I don't love his books, but I just thought this book was so special, I guess.
And the characters were amazing and brilliant and it was a great representation of wasted potential in high school found in stuck up populars.
I thought this book was absolutely beautiful and very well written.
I loved it a lot.And the thing is that it wasn't just a cheesy teen romance novel.
I just thought it was going to be a stereotypical teen drama, but I was so pleasantly surprised.
I don't know if he's right, but I do know that I spent a long time existing, and now I intend to live." - Ezra FaulknerWow. So this book surprised me.
If I was to compare this book to some other contemporaries I've read this year, I would say it reminded me of Paper Towns by John Green, Eleanor & Park by Rainbow Rowell, and maybe even a hint of The Perks of Being a Wallflower by Stephen Chbosky.
I REALLY enjoyed Ezra's development throughout this book and finished this book with a feeling of contentment.
Definitely recommend this book to lovers of contemporary fiction!
Yazarın dilini çok beğendim. O kadar güzel alıntılar, zekice planlamış espriler vardı ki. Aynı zamanda hayatın içinden alınmış gibiydi. Özellikle karakterler çok gerçekçi geldi. Hiçbiri mükemmel değil, her birinin kusurları var. Ama bunlar sizi rahatsız etmiyor. Dediğim gibi onları daha gerçekçi kılıyor. Ezra’nın hayata bakış açısının değişmesi, kendini bulması bir noktada bize de yardımcı olucak türden. Eğer içten, sevimli, aynı zamanda hem hüzünlü hem de komik bir kitap arıyorsanız, bir şans verin derim. Zaten yazarın dilinden dolayı bir gün içerisinde bitebilecek bir roman. Kapak hakkında zaten konuşmaya gerek yok <3
I was really hoping to give this book five stars...
The end of the book broke my heart.
I was really hoping that Ezra(awesome main character) would have a better ending.
Then there's Cassidy who messes up Ezra's life and then just tells him that they can't be together ever ( while they are in the vet waiting to see if Ezra's dog survived and then leaves him and never comes back) , right after they had a great time going out.
Overall I really liked how the author wrote this book, but wish there was a better ending to this book.
When new girl Cassidy enrolls at his high school and an old elementary school pal pops back into his life, Ezra begins to realize maybe he wasn’t the person he has pretended to be all these years.In what I thought was going to end up as yet another failed attempt at finding a book that would make me get all feely-feely, I began to believe my issue might be worse than I thought.
I got over the idea that I was going to find this novel “heartwrenching” like the blurb told me and just tried to accept it for what it was: a perfectly sweet tale of first love and first loss that make up the high school experience.
