https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6871.Black_Dogs

Very disappointing, and yet not a dreadful book either (I've read five other McEwan's, all 4* or 5*).Remembering The narrator is preparing the memoirs of his dying mother-in-law.
He particularly wants details of a terrifying encounter with black dogs more than 40 years ago that changed the direction of her life, and therefore that of her husband and children.Jeremy describes his own childhood, contrasting it with that of his wife, and tells of trips to the care home to talk to his mother-in-law, recounting snippets of her life.
June and Bernard (Jeremy's parents-in-law) joined the Communist party at the end of the war.
In response to the social utopia - Communism - this stunning novel develops tracking and inner transformation of June - faces the ultimate evil, the black dogs - quoting Gandhi: "Be the change you want to see in the world ".
It's basically a novel about ideologies and philosophies and how they apply to human beings, not about them in general, and McEwan's prose is so precise and fabulous that reading this whole thing, a book where barely anything actually happens except for near the end, was incredibly involving and fascinating.
I'm also constantly amazed that Ian McEwan is a widely respected, 'serious' author who very often ends his stories with twists or major revelations which make us reconsider what comes before.
Even a clever twist in genre fiction usually feels slightly cheap, but McEwan is so graceful with his writing that it damn near always works.
The encounter at the heart of Black Dogs is compelling, and raises some interesting ideas about human nature, and the tension between idealism and the reality of the darker sides of humanity.
Black Dogs could have worked better as either a short story about the central incident itself, or a longer exploration of the many ideas it attempts to tackle (though I’m not sure McEwan could have written the latter novel).
He seems to take a single kernel of a good idea, and fill in a story around it, adding characters and descriptions of histories and motivations, but all of it feels like mere scaffolding for the central event.
It was interesting to see his life work paralleled against Roth’s in the New York Review of Books (Al Alvarez, July 19 2007), suggesting that McEwan, like Roth, came of age as a writer at a moment when sexuality had to be busted out and that he, like Roth, was in the vanguard of this.
I was expecting something more original in his style (like Roth’s), but came away with an impression of someone who got embraced by the lit establishment at a particular moment in time because of the above and also because his understated simple prose fit in with the aesthetics of the Ford-Carver-Tobias Wolfe school (of which I am a fan).
June retreated to France a few years after the attack, to write and paint and live a hermit’s life, while Bernard remained in London and became something of a media personality.In an effort to understand what happened, Jeremy followed both of their lives closely, and returns to the black dog scene four times: in conversations with June and with Bernard, again on his own and in a final chapter where more details of the event are revealed.What I found unsatisfactory was this: why would the attack be such a defining moment and lead to a separation for over 40 years, even though June and Bernard remained in love?
It is richly packed with ideas and character into what is almost only a novella in length, and I found the ending to be particularly strong and well prepared by what had gone before.
The book is not flawless, there are technical weaknesses early on -- that is, the craftsmanship sometimes shows -- and there are passages where the 'debate' becomes a bit ham-handed..., but the fundamental insight into the nature of evil and its implications is haunting and effecively conveyed.
This is a very good book, and while it is easy to dismiss McEwan as Lit-lite (and there may be some truth in that), the few hours it takes to read this story were not wasted.
It sometimes so happens that I start reading a book without really thinking about it.
I think it's sort of a professional flaw, after reading so many books, I know from the very first one or two pages, how many more I can afford to not attentively read.
When I read something that has a preface, maybe written by the author, like Stephen King does on a lot of his books, maybe by a critic, it's even worse.
The preface, written by the author but through his main character and completely connected to the story, hit me after about 20 rows in the first page.
They never descended the Gorge de Vis and walked by the mysterious raised canal that disappears into the rock, never crossed the river by the medieval bridge or climbed up to cross the Causse de Blandas and wander among the prehistoric menhirs, cromlechs and dolmens scattered in the wilderness, never began the long ascent of the Cevennes towards Florac.
The next day they began their separate journeys."or"They lifted the glasses and cups so that she could spread out a white tablecloth and set down two bottles of vin de pays, glasses, a basket of bread, a bowl of olives and a handful of cutlery.
Rather like seeing a landscape with a fuller perspective and you can catch the beauty of the overall effect, the roll of the hills, the gathering of the woodland, the undulations of the streams which you miss if you are too close.
In my opinion, I am not sure if McEwan really knows which it is supposed to be either.Maybe I have just wholly misunderstood and a few more metaphorical leagues travelled will have me browing another line of hills and then I shall look back and it will all fall into place but at the moment......nope.....sorry.
The writing was gorgeous, and some of the sections were interesting, but it didn't hang together as a novel.
There was a section where a man goes for a walk and has dinner in a restaurant where he sees parents being horrible to a child, and gets into an altercation with the father.
I loved it as a stand-alone piece, but didn't see what it was doing in the middle of this novel, unless I was missing something.
Why go on another walk, and then buy a house near where it happened.
Good writing isn't enough.
From the preface I couldn't bear to put it down.This beginning of the book (the preface) is so convincing, so authentic, that it really seems like the author is speaking himself and devoid of any artifice.
Only after a while you notice that it's not the author, but the main character who does the speaking.
I also loved how the main character is trying to make sense of his in-laws and their relationship.
This clearing of the fog isn't orchestrated by some dramatic reveal or anything like a twist; it just naturally grows from the story.
Placing the exploration of his in-laws' complicated relationship over five decades at the story's core around which the philosophical, spiritual and moral themes are continually gyrating, McEwan masterfully dissects the private sphere within and against the context of political developments in post-war Europe.Jeremy, having agreed to assist the now ailing June to write her memoir, attempts to reach beyond her version of memories, by talking, in parallel to Bernard.
For example, the Preface reveals much important context beyond Jeremy, his relation to his wife and family and the events that led June and Bernard to move their lives into different directions: it already touches upon the core issues of the novel that might have had more impact on me were they to unfold slowly over the course of the narration.
Forte et quod scio nolim,et quod nescio volo.I cani neri :simbolo dell'inquietudine innominabile e irragionevole che talvolta ti assale e incarnazione delle minacce che ti senti dentro.Quando non sai bene cosa vuoio forse non vuoi quello che sai(e vuoi quello che non sai)Le nostre esistenze si erano raccolte attorno a questo attimo sublime:un luogo sacro che vantava cinquemila anni di storia , il nostro amore reciproco , la luce ,l'immenso spazio che ci si apriva davanti.
La politica ,quella fatta di ideali, si occupa solo del futuro.Ho impiegato il resto della mia vita per scoprire che nel momento in cui si entra completamente nel proprio presente, vi si scoprono spazi infiniti , tempo infinito ,chiamalo Dio se ti pare
I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this. An incredibly satisfying quick read, accumulating in the powerful image (both symbolically and literally) for the narrator's mother-in-law at the end of the novel, which is the title of the book. I was also shocked to find a few people didn't like it. This book is part memoir, part fiction, and at the same time an examination of explosions of violence.
Lo stesso amore che, purtroppo, non ha potuto provare Jeremy, che, in seguito alla morte dei genitori avvenuta quando aveva solo otto anni, cerca quell'amore vero e naturale che esiste tra una madre e un figlio e che alla fine troverà nelle figure di June e Bernard, i suoceri della moglie Jenny.
In un viaggio che si snoda tra Wiltshire, Berlino durante gli anni della caduta del Muro e St. Maurice de Navacelles, McEwan racconta con meraviglia, stupore, coinvolgimento la storia di June e Bernard, ma anche i due modi diversi di vivere la vita: quello più spirituale e asceta di lei e quello pragmatico, concreto, razionale di lui, dando l'ennesima grande prova del suo talento facendo emozionare e riflettere.
I've just re-read this one because it was my first McEwan and I was so unfamiliar with his odd story structure that the essence of the book didn’t stay with me.
On the way to such understanding, Jeremy unearths the singular moment of the older couple’s division, an event occurring in France’s Midi, involving a pair of black dogs.McEwan weaves his story back and forth in time and centers it on the heady days of the fall of the Berlin Wall.
McEwan’s - and Jeremy’s - tone here is one of reasoned detachment, but that does little to erase the mystery of June’s experience with these black dogs, an event the Bernard didn’t witness and wishes to rationalize away.
Another McEwan book about people who love each other but somehow fail to stay together.
The wife has an experience with black dogs on her honeymoon, which sends her on a quest for spiritual truth.
The black dogs and other scenes of danger add an unexpected element of horror.
I enjoy theological arguments, while some are irritated to be bothered with even the idea of theology.
A little romance, a little horror, political intrigue, theology.
But I'm not surprised McEwan could fit it all in such a small book.
Domani mi sarò già dimenticato di cosa parla.
There is some sexy writing here, and McEwan never lacks for making his characters feel both intelligent and real, but something tells me I’ll be forgetting about this one by next year.
"Há um prazer simples em entrar e sair de uma aldeia a pé. Temporariamente, é possível sustentar a ilusão de que, enquanto outros têm vidas fixas à volta de casas, relações e trabalho, nós somos auto-suficientes e livres, sem o estorvo de bens e obrigações. É uma sensação privilegiada de leveza, impossível de experimentar quando se passa de carro, como parte do trânsito."
As the novel starts, June and Bernard are elderly and the narrator, Jeremy, is interviewing June for a memoir he plans to write.
Jeremy focuses on their philosophical differences and wonders if he’s better or worse because he has no philosophical passions.June lived most of her life in a bergerie in France where she sought a spiritual life while Bernard was an active scientist, writer, journalist and politician in England.
June believes in good and evil; Bernard believes in the infinite perfectibility of humans.
This is far from the best novel by Ian McEwan.
But even in a less novel, I think he still merits 4 stars.
The reason I felt it was less than some other books, was the overflow of themes and subjects.
The book sometimes gives the impression of a story meandering on while touching difficult ideas, yet not taking the time to really dig into them.
Essentially it is about how people sometimes love eachother very much and yet do not (want to?) understand the other and are unable to build a life together.
"Zlo o kome govorim živi u svima nama. Uzme maha u pojedincu, u ličnim životima, unutar porodice, i upravo deca najviše pate. I onda, kada su uslovi povoljni, u različitim zemljama, u različitim vremenima, užasno surovo bukne zloba protiv života, i svi su iznenađeni dubinom mržnje u sebi. Onda potone i čeka. To je nešto u našem srcu."
On the surface this is a story about a marital rift, that permeates through decades, as a son-in-law, who was orphaned himself as a child, becomes drawl to his wife’s parents and their story as almost pseudo-parents for himself, despite the fact that their own children have essentially divorced themselves from both of them. Their rift, and the story behind it, becomes an analogy of sorts for the World War and an entire generation left in its wake.
A tratti appare un po’ artificioso nell’espediente di collegare alle vicende personali dei protagonisti il maggior numero possibile di eventi storici; a tratti, forse, anche un po’ freddo, nella messa in scena di personaggi stilizzati, più icone idealizzate dalla memoria che persone suscettibili delle evoluzioni proprie della vita reale; tuttavia sono innegabili il valore suggestivo e il pregio letterario di certe pagine, da includere a mio avviso tra le più belle che siano mai state scritte.

Perhaps McEwan's best work, which of course is saying a lot. One quibble: I don't see what's served by saving the black dogs story until the final section. I would've liked to have known earlier what exactly this whole life-changing experience was.One of those rare novels of ideas that never feels pedantic or contrived. The characters are real, as real as any characters you're going to find in literature. June represents supernaturalism and Bernard naturalism. We understand the motivations of each character and also the arguments for and against their respective worldviews. Absolutely love the imaginary conversations between the two.
The narrator of Black Dogs, Jeremy lost his parents at 8 years old, latches onto his friends' parents, then his wife's. The story takes place during the Berlin Wall, November 1989. Jeremy is fascinated by his Wife's parents and their unusual relationship: they love one another, but are unable to live together. Their extreme ideologies make it difficult to live together. This is another McEwan that I really liked
