https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13598725-the-star
I have done My very best to create a beautiful universe where intelligent beings may evolve, flourish, and learn to become closer to Me. You would simply not believe how many aeons of work I have put in to tune the laws of physics so that it all comes together.
If you want to call it a miracle, I'm not going to contradict you.And then, a few million years later, some of those stars began to turn into supernovae.
Those supernovae are creating heavy elements, small amounts of which are one day going to become living creatures who will eventually develop immortal souls!
Huh?"Well, that put Michael in his place.
I read it here https://sites.uni.edu/morgans/astro/c...What a gift Clarke had. This (very short) story in four pages packs in so much intensity, thought, concept & beautiful writing.Come to your own conclusion!
A Jesuit priest, the astrophysicist on a space crew voyaging to explore the Phoenix Nebula, is having a crisis of faith.
Clarke loaded the dice a little to make his story more dramatic (view spoiler)[by having the people whose lives were destroyed by a supernova be apparently so happy, kind and lovely in every way (hide spoiler)], but that's a minor quibble.
This story raises the fundamental question of, how can a loving God allow (or perhaps even cause) terrible things to happen?

❓Do you know?▶ The dinner you ate doesn't matter.▶ The iPhone you own doesn't matter.▶ The books you read don't matter.▶ The reviews you write don't matter.▶ Your indulgence in goodreads doesn't matter.▶ You don't matter.  You. Don't. Matter. Because, you are going to blow up just like the distant civilization did. No matter what you do. That's what He exists for! ⭐One day, we are going to shine brilliantly over a distant Bethlehem. ⭐Who knows, we might be the Polaris of a distant civilization.⭐
Because, you are going to blow up just like the distant civilization did.
⭐Who knows, we might be the Polaris of a distant civilization.⭐Because, we are stars!
Somebody created the Universe!!
What Atheists are like-
Nobody created the Universe!!
What I am like-Dear Atheists and Chauvinists, You can't hang in there forever.
✅ those who talk science with the deity ceremoniously kept in the sanctum of their beliefs.
✅ those who seek solace in the confluence of the extremes of human knowledge- science and religion.Short.
One part science fiction mystery and one part moody rumination on faith and the nature of God. A dash of nastily sharp irony. Clarke makes his point and he makes it hard.Read this short story for free! Right here:http://web.archive.org/web/2008071808... spoiler: He's about to smash that egg, and then shrug.
Once in a while, I come across on an incredible work. This short story is nothing else but a Masterpiece. It reminds me of Saramago’s “The Gospel According to Jesus Christ” through the message it carries.On the way to a white dwarf, the chief astrophysicist, which is a Jesuit, struggles to keep his authority on an atheist crew, until they made a discovery that will shatter his beliefs entirely: “It is three thousand light-years to the Vatican. Once, I believed that space could have no power over
This short story is nothing else but a Masterpiece.
It reminds me of Saramago’s “The Gospel According to Jesus Christ” through the message it carries.On the way to a white dwarf, the chief astrophysicist, which is a Jesuit, struggles to keep his authority on an atheist crew, until they made a discovery that will shatter his beliefs entirely:
This is how the story begins.
There are four pages with an ending that weigh as much as the white dwarf encountered.I listened to it (here) and then I read it (here) and then did both simultaneously :)Brilliant piece of art…
Romanian review: "Steaua'' de Arthur C.
Clarke este o povestire foarte scurtă, dar interesantă și profundă.
English review: "The Star"by Arthur C.
Clarke is a short story, but it is really interesting and profound.
A strong believer astrophysicist is the leader of a space expedition which discovers the remains of an advanced extraterrestrial civilization and he is struggling with keeping his faith, being unsure if there is a loving and moral God. The last phrase of the story impressed me a lot and made me offer it those 4 stars.
Recognizing several generations in advance that their sun would soon explode, and with no means of interstellar travel to save themselves, the doomed people spent their final years building a vault on the outermost planet in their solar system, whose Pluto-like orbit was distant enough to survive the supernova.
The Earth explorers, particularly the astrophysicist-priest, were deeply moved by these artifacts, and they found themselves identifying closely with the dead race's peaceful, human-like culture and the profound grace they exhibited in the face of their cruel fate.The final paragraph of "The Star" reveals the source of the priest's pain.
An oldy, but a goody. Clarke's short stories were his strongest writing, IMO. This one is no exception as it quickly sets the stage & then delivers a powerful message with an almost sadistic twist at the end. It's short, only a few pages, & free here:https://sites.uni.edu/morgans/astro/c...Highly recommended.
I have no idea how to rate this. Very deep, will take some time to ponder.
I listened to The Star here, narrated by Arthur C.
Clarke himself.
This short story won the Hugo Award in 1956.The Star follows a group of space explorers set to investigate the death of a star.
On their way to it, they find a small planet on a Pluto-like orbit to the dead star.
There, they uncover the remains of the civilization that perished with its sun.
Having calculated the estimate time of the supernova, the crew is faced with shocking information.
And this is how the story ends.
I will let you find out that piece of information.
...The Star is a story that packs a good punch. It is easy to see why someone who wrote such elegant stories in a time when a lot of science fiction was barely past the pulp stage, would have been considered one of the big writers in the genre. It is worth reading, not just because it aged gracefully, but also because it shows the darker side of the writing of a man known for his optimistic work. Full Random Comments review
Don't remember the last time a book made me feel like this.An astrophysicist on a mission to explore a distant supernova is on the verge of losing his religious faith; a struggle with keeping faith in the face of unprecedented truths. Then, he makes a very dark discovery that shakes each and every of his fundamental beliefs o_o
In a near future a starship exploring the remains of a supernova finds tha the explosion has destroyed a kind ,happy civilization,a terrible genocide.The astounding fact is that the supernova is the Belen star that herald the Jesus birth,giving way to a montruous moral paradox;as a consecuence a scientific Jesuit lose his faith.A deep reflection on the meaning of the universe and our role in it
Wonderful short story.You can listen to it, narrated by Clarke himself here:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=81t6a..."We set out to reach the Phoenix Nebula, we succeeded, and we are homeward bound with our burden of knowledge."
In "The Nine Billion Names of God" the scientists are cynical and the Tibetan monks seem naive.
Here there are superficial scientists questioning naive superstitious faith, but the narrator is more complex than they think.
We may be few now, but ever since the eighteenth century we have made contributions to astronomy and geophysics out of all proportion to our numbers".The narrator's motivation, both religious and scientific, is deep.
"The Nine Billion Names of God" incarnates the two cultures in separate individuals, whereas in "The Star" the narrator incarnates both sides, and lives out their conflict as an inner struggle.
Buddy-read with my sci-fi friend Qönçə!Firstly, it is so good to read classic science fiction again.
I love A.Clarke and I have to say , his writing style is smooth and poetry-like.
Loved the story too.
The ending was confusing at first, but then after reading reviews I got it.
The astrophysicist explores a dying star and learns that there was a civilization like humans who were wiped out by explosion.
The philosophical message has not got its answer yet.
I love Arthur Clarke's philosophical stories, sci-fi goes so well with philosophy.
Hope to read more of his interesting and thought-provoking books.
Leggere racconti mi lascia in genere una certa insoddisfazione, oltre che un velo di malinconia.
Questo succede perché mi affeziono ai personaggi delle storie, mi catapulto in un universo diverso, faccio mie le sensazioni dell'opera, mi sintonizzo con gli umori dei protagonisti e mi piace l'evolversi psicologico dei vari eroi, malfattori, narratori...
Per questo credo che i romanzi siano la scelta più naturale, quella che mi regala più soddisfazioni e più emozioni.Eppure qualche volta si trova un racconto davvero ben scritto, che in poche pagine sa trasmettere tanto e che lascia qualcosa.
Clarke, davvero riuscito nel difficoltoso intento di accontentare una che con i racconti ha un rapporto un po' controverso.
Very powerful, and could be open to several differing opinions about the true meaning. I would say that it was written to be interpreted by everyone individually, as either anti-religious or the opposite, underscoring the power and sovereignty. It is definitely an engrossing read, not light, very intense and written with great feeling. Certainly not the typical Christmas read!
A struggle with keeping faith in the face of unprecedented truths. Truly remarkable.
The meanings we give on the information available to us out of our ignorance lose their resonance as new information appears until that point when faith becomes stubborn stupidity.Stupidity is a reasonable option when it comes to beliefs about the world when the survival costs of not having beliefs are greater than the dangers of having beliefs that work against reality but Clarke was a progressive who saw knowledge acquisition as remorseless and a good in itself.First published in 1954 and frequently anthologised since, this story is almost a manifesto for the mind-set required to conquer the universe.
A priest who is also an astrophysit went for a long travel in space to study the supernova effects.
Into this site the priest found the remnants , records of the civilizations that was wiped out by the supernova.
Watching how these beings were happy living and playing with their children on beaches , the crew and the priest felt sad for the death of such civilizations .
To the surprise of the Jesuit priest, he discovered that the super nova that wiped such great civilization was the shining star of Bethlehem that shined in the sky heralding the birth of Jesusu Christ.
Upon discovering some material remains of a race of beings extinguished due to an explosion of a supernova, a priest, who's also a scientist on the ship, has a crisis of faith.Being religious and thus having accepted God as a reality in his life, the crisis stems from trying to comprehend the capriciousness of God's destruction which seems cruel and unjust to him...
therefore he feels torn as he's faced between 2 painful possibilities: 1) there is no God and the universe is cruel and random OR 2) there is a God and he/she is cruel and random.
I couldnt sleep tonight and I read this to put myself to sleep. Now I cant sleep for real.Kept reading this with the comfort of a familiar ground and theme, only to have it all changed in that last one sentence.This was adapted by Twilight Zone as a Christmas special, ironic huh. Well, a little tweak again changed the whole perspective there - (view spoiler)[ they celebrated their death becoming light to another civilization. (hide spoiler)]
Resonated deep within the core of my existence. Don't remember the last time I felt like this.
so so sad. and so so beautiful. god, my heart aches.this is a 4 page short story that can be found here in pdf format.
I don't have much time so at the moment I'm sticking with these shorties. Oh well :)
This was a wonderful short story that has a surprising ending. It describes the end of a solar system and the death of a people we never knew. It describes their efforts to save some of the proof of their existence, a kind of time capsule for future explorers to find. The story was entertaining, but quite sad, and discusses the conflicts between science and religion. I listened to an audiobook version of this tale on a British Airways flight home from my trip to Sweden. A transcript of the story can be found here.
Přečteno ve sbírce "Devět miliard božích jmen".Bůh není povinen ospravedlňovat své počínání člověku. On, jenž vybudoval Vesmír, může jej zničit, kdykoli se mu zachce. A je to od nás drzost - nebezpečně blízko k rouhání - říkat, co smí a co ne.Krásné a mrazivé vyprávění o odhalení dávné a vzdálené události, která, snad s božím úmyslem, snad jen pouhou náhodou, v důsledku ovlivnila milióny a miliardy lidí na Zemi, aniž by si toho byli kdy vědomi. Závěr, při kterém jsem jenom zírala na poslední slova a znovu se podivovala umu a géniu tohoto velkého spisovatele.
