https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/667288.The_Fox_Went_Out_on_a_Chilly_Night
While I appreciate the fact that Peter Spier has included the lyrics and melody of the song, I again think that an added author's note about its origins and distribution would have increased the folkloric (and academic) interest and value of  The Fox Went Out on a Chilly Night (I think it was originally a Middle English poem that was then transported to North America by British colonists).
**** Caldecott Honor (1962) ****I read this accompanied by a CD with audio of the story and song performed by Tom Chapin. It's funny how actually hearing the song and the story played out with music can transform this old folk tune into a foot tapping fun time. This story really comes alive when played out with music.
1962 Caldecott Honor.I first heard this folk song when I was in high school, and thought it was a funny tale; so I was pleasantly surprised when I found it on the Caldecott list.
I really loved the detailed illustrations and fall coloring used throughout this story, it just made this book such a pleasure to read.
I found myself singing the song to myself throughout the rest of the day.
The edition I read was an anniversary edition that had all of the pages colored (originally only half were colored due to publishing budget restraints) by Peter Spier.
I also really liked reading about his creative process in putting together this story.
The words are from an old folk song.
It is not a song I recognize, but it does contain the music score and lyrics at the back.
The edition I read is a new edition redone in 2013 where Spier has added color to every page.
(An author's note at the end explains how this book came about and that when it was originally published, the publishers printed one side of the page in black and white and one side in color.
In 2013, he was asked to add color to the black and white pages.).
Definitely worth reading and poring over the details in the illustration.
The story itself is mostly told otherwise by the detailed and really colorful pictures that will take the reader through the countryside from the home of the foxes to the edge of town where the farmer lives.
The reader will also get a chance to be able to pick through the details to find various interesting tidbits that may help to focus the story for discussion.
I was surprised though that a tobacco barn had been included since the background for the story was suppose to be further up north while I am not sure tobacco is a northern crop.
This revised edition has colorful images throughout, instead of on every other page, and I believe that it adds charm to the book.Nevertheless, the concept of a fox coming through a town to raid a farm of a goose and a duck (even if is is to feed his family) may be a bit disturbing for younger children or those sensitive to the sight of a fox carrying his 'kill' on his back.
I have to admit that I was not overly enthralled by the song's lyrics the first time I read the book, but after the second or third time through, it didn't seem quite so horrible.
It tells a story of a fox who goes searching for food for his family, and ends up raiding a farmers goose house.
Its interesting because when the fox is in the goose house, he seems as if he is a real animal, but when he lives in a house, that has furniture in it, and they prepare the food and eat it at a table, They act like humans which is obviously something real animals do not do.
I did like how well it flowed, and Its easy and fun to sing along to.
I am not fond of books where the illustrations alternate between black and white and color.
I always tend to gloss over the black and white and gravitate toward the color.
This book is no exception.
I love the vibrant colors of the paintings and mainly skipped over the less exciting line drawings.
Though it might gross out some readers, I was pleased to see a fox acting like a fox.
I love so many of the pictures it would be hard to choose a favorite, but I think my favorite aspect of each page is the fall foliage.
Song lyrics as a text. Anyone else remember the song? Burl Ives used to sing it. I had this book when I was a kid and I'd totally forgotten about it, but when it arrived in today's post and I opened it and saw the first illustration the flood gates of memory opened up. Peter Spier illustrations are incredible - very carefree and whimsical. This one is a keeper.
Spier is an amazing illustrator - I could not stop gazing at each page spread! Oh, and the story is really cute too, ... but those pictures - wonderful!Ages: 3 - 8Cleanliness: there is a sign for tobacco and you can see the leaves hanging in a barn.#fall #autumn
Lola loved this book so much; she amazed me by memorizing it and singing it within a few readings.
The theme of the song is a fox's raid on a flock of ducks and geese, and for the majority of the book, we see the fox dragging the still-alive goose by his neck through the town, as the bird displays terrified expressions.
As an adult, I can step back and enjoy the folk song, the quality of the illustrations, and the blending of fantasy with reality (the foxes have a mailbox at their den and eat around a dinner table.) However, I would share it with the picture-book set only with a heavy dose of caution.
• 1962 Caldecott Honor Book •I really, really love the art in this book!
I really love the colors too.
There is a note from the author in the back where it’s explained that this book was originally half black-and-white and half color.
The note also explains that he was inspired to write this book when he was on a trip with his wife in Vermont and while singing “The Fox Went Out on a Chilly Night” he felt inspired to make the song into a children’s book.
This is a beautiful book!
Not only is it a book, but it is also a classic folk song that can be played as you read through the book.EvaluationThis book is mostly appropriate for younger grades because it is a very simple story with only one sentence for page.
Teaching Idea This book would be appropriate for teaching rhyming.
For example, "The fox went out on a chilly night, and he prayed to the moon to give him light." A teacher could read this book aloud and have students identify the words that rhyme as she is reading.
I think this book was super cute. It is about a fox who goes into town and snatches a goose and a duck for supper. What I really appreciated though, was that the entire book could be turned into a song. The notes are in the back, and the whole book could be a sing along instead of just a read along. I think this book would be fun for music time or a lesson on foxes.
Perhaps if I had ever heard of this song before, I would have liked this book. As it was, I found it very repetative and the adding of "o" to the end of words (town-o) annoying. The pictures were quite good, though.
Apparently this story is based off a song. I just couldn't get into the rhythm or cadence of the text. Not to mention that the story itself was a little dark. Not a fan of the illustrations either.
I might have liked the story better if I heard the old folks song it's based in. I do like the illustrations though.
A folk song about a fox hunting for his family is illustrated with watercolor and pen illustrations.
I would not recommend because it is talking about killing a duck and is somewhat violent. But it is creative.
ATOS 2.7
The artwork.
I loved this song as a kid!
1. Caldecott Honor Book2.
3-7 years3.
This book describes a traditional folk song about a fox travels miles to find food in the village to bring to his wife and babies.
The fox catches a grey goose by the neck, and successfully bring it to the family.
The fox family is so happy because they never ate such a dinner in their life.4.
I love how it describes the lyrics with illustrations in details.
I listened to this song by Nickel Creek after reading this book, I LOVE it even more.
The melody and background instruments are just so beautiful.5.
The Fox Went Out on a Chilly Night is a wonderful old folk song telling the ageless story of a fox who raids a farmer's goose house and brings his kill home to his family.
As the fox raids the goose house he acts very much like a realistic animal, but he returns to a furnished home, and he and his wife proceed to pluck and carve the goose before eating it at table.
A fox goes out hunting to provide food for his family and wakes up some of the residents in the historical New England town with his thievery.
(Music for the song is provided in the back of the book.)I really liked the ink illustrations in this book and can see why Spier won an award for them.
Spier picked a colonial New England setting for the illustrations that lend a nice flavor to the book.
Usually, dinner doesn't get a chance to talk so that might traumatize some more sensitive kids, but at the same time, foxes have to eat too.
Awards: Caldecott HonorThis book is about a fox who ventures his way into the local village looking for dinner for his family.
The fox alerts the people in the village and the fox is chased out of the village and returns to his family to feast on the geese.This book is interesting because it probably wouldn't be written today due to the violent nature of foxes and how they find their food.
Even though this book may be a little violent, it's still great for early readers because of its repetition.
If you are fortunate enough to have a recording of Odetta singing this ballad cue up your c.d., turn the volume all the way up, and simply turn the pages to the color double-page spreads.
They will...cut off a corner of the envelope (fox's head)cut two ears and a tail from the scrapsglue or tape the ears to the headglue or tape the tail to the back (sticking up)color the fox any way you likedraw eyes and a nose (or glue on wiggle eyes and/or adhesive dots)to use the bookmark, slide the fox over one corner of a page
This was a strange book to read because first off, it isn't even an original story.
Yet, the pictures were incredibly well-drawn and colored.
There are a lot of details included in the picture.
I also thought it was interesting that it switched in between colored and uncolored pages.
I would not, however recommend this book to children.
They would not remain interested, probably lose their interest quickly, and want to go do something else.
This might be used as a bedtime story, but it might be seen as disturbing, unless the child understands that the Fox only does is to (view spoiler)[feed his family.
(hide spoiler)]
This was a Caldecott Honor in 1962.On the back of the book they call the text a "timeless folk song." I've never heard it, and maybe it doesn't feel so harsh when you're just singing it, but seeing the fox so gleefully sneak into the farm and first TELL the ducks and geese that they will "grease his chin" and then actually seeing him cheerfully catch and kill a duck and grab the grey goose by the neck and run, well, it made me root for the grey goose!
(view spoiler)[I was hoping she would get a chance to make a run for it!
(hide spoiler)]
