https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1422149.A_Traveller_in_Time
Tolkien's favorites:) And since everyone who loves stories of this sort likes to compare them to Narnia, I would say that C.S. Lewis took some inspiration from Ms. Uttley's, much earlier book:) A group of siblings visit their aunt and uncle in a country farmhouse for a time and Penelope, who is a dreamer, finds herself traveling through time and connecting with the people who used to live in this place in the 1500's...
This is a gentle mixture of all of them, very accessible to children and as it did in my case, makes you want to learn more about the Tudor period and the whole line of Tudors as a whole.

Penelope goes to live at her Aunt's manor house and farm, and finds herself slipping back in time to visit ancient relatives that are caught up in the Babington plot, seeking to overthrow Queen Elizabeth and replace her with Mary, Queen of Scots.
There are long descriptions which probably lend more to reading to self than reading aloud, but did give a great insight into daily life in Elizabethan times.
We thought perhaps this book had inspired The Children of Green knowe, but if it did, they are both very different, but both very great childrens books.
Penelope lives in the early twentieth century, but is able to pass into sixteenth-century England when she is visiting her family's manor house in the country.
Penelope is well aware the plot failed, with tragic ends for Mary as well as the Babingtons.
As she continually visits the past, she comes to love the Babingtons and their servants.
Some of the closing scenes describe Christmas celebrations in Elizabethan England, which include the visit of mummers to the manor house.
I read its wistful ending with a sigh, knowing my visit with Penelope was at an end.
But, rather than dwell on the isolation, frustration suffocation etc etc that industrial people tend to imagine that world would be like, Uttley finds deep roots and full-throated pleasures, a society where, for example, girls sing rounds together at their work without self-consciousness.Uttley pulls this off because she is a brilliant writer.
I felt like I had gone time travelling myself and wandered into an Elizabethan era farm in Derbyshire.
She has the gift of 'second sight', and finds herself pulled into a drama unfolding on the same farm three hundred years before she is born.

I've always been staunchly for Queen Elizabeth, but I wholly agreed with Dame Cicely when she says, "I say 'God save Queen Elizabeth,' but I would like the poor Scottish Queen, who has seen such terrible trouble, to be safe and sound overseas." That was the very best statement about being loyal to Queen Bess, and still being kind to Queen Mary that I ever read.I also felt badly about Francis.
Of course, I knew he would never desert his brother, and Penelope loved her family far too much, but still...!
Alison Uttley fills the world of the Thacker Manor with the mundane details of running a home and farm along with the big events surrounding the imprisoning of Mary Stuart.Uttley's novel has enough historical information to teach the basics of the Babington Plot without hitting one over the head with facts, dates and figures.
Readers knowledgeable of the events will enjoy filling in the missing details.
Readers not as familiar with the history can still follow along and enjoy the time travel aspects of the novel.
This isn't a story, it's a gateway into another world.I've read this book so many times and still find it beautiful and utterly believable: you can smell the herbs in the linen chests, hear the singing, feel the breeze on your face. I'm still a bit in love with Francis Babbington, and let me warn you, it's fictional heroes like him that cause little girls to grow into women with unrealistic expectations of men.
Penelope repeatedly slips back in time at her family's ancient country farm, Thackers, to the 1580s and then back to her present, 1906-08.
(This also has the effect of ridding the book of time travel paradoxes.) She can change how people feel about events but not the events themselves.
The reader and Penelope and the Babingtons know how it will end.
Anthony knows he is doomed but he tries to save Queen Mary anyway, because he loves her.
Penelope knows she can't save them but she keeps returning because she loves the Babingtons.
Side note: If you love old houses, this ia a book you should read.
Absolutely enchanting YA novel. I only wish I had read it as a young girl, so that I could have fond memories of it!The black & white illustrations are a bonus :)The house, Thackers, has been added to my "houses as characters" category. Like Mary Stewart's Thornyhold, it forms a strong presence in the story. I would adore living there...
I grew almost wistful for the world of Thackers myself, it seemed so ideal.SPOILERBut underneath it all there is the darkness of a cruel history (although inaccurately chronicled in Traveller in Time), the threat of loss, and the wish to be in two worlds at once that suggests that Penelope is struggling with her change from child to adult and her discomfort with entering the reality of the world her parents inhabit.My only bugbear was the romanticisation of Anthony Babington.
I read more about him after I'd finished the book and he was no innocent man, plotting to kill Queen Elizabeth and put Mary on the throne.
One of the best time travel fantasies ever - beautifully written, soft yet exact, with a feeling for the English countryside that made me think of the young D.H. Lawrence.
Big Toe Books from BBC Radio 7. The plot seems to be interesting.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00xlw17
Lovely writing. I felt like I was there, both in early 20th century England and In 16th century England. Also fun to look at pictures of the actual house Dethick Manor in Derbyshire, which is now a B&B. I wish I had read this years ago. I don't know how I missed it growing up. Just came across the word Dumbledores "Dumbledores boomed as they struck our dresses..." Old English for bumblebees.
A must read for anyone who loves history and time travel and Mary Queen of Scots!
Alison Uttley is well known for her children’s stories such as those featuring the Little Grey Rabbit and Sam the Pig. She also wrote books for older readers and one of the finest is the wonderful YA novel, "A Traveller In Time".
What happens to the physical body during a time slip?
In Uttley’s book Penelope has a physical existence in the 16th century and while she is there, time apparently stops in the 20th century.
I learned about this book from an interview with Ian Mortimer, author of "The Time Traveler's Guide to Medieval England," a history book that takes the novel approach of presenting itself as a guide of useful practical information you'll need to fit in in medieval England.
Uttley's writing is evocative and richly detailed, and I'm trusting Ian Mortimer when he vouches for the top-notch authenticity of her research.If you know a young reader who is just getting into classic children's lit, hunt down a copy of this book - you might just make a history lover out of them!

Am enjoying this - took it to Dublin with me as it's rather lighter than the Ken Follett - lol!Now I've finished it - well worth reading - well written & good plot, despite knowing what's going to happen - a beautiful book.....
I wish I'd read this when I was 12, it would have been one of my favorite books ever. As it is, I'm glad to have read it at this late date. Sweet little British story of a girl with the second sight, an enchanted house, and the doomed Mary, Queen of Scots.
La lingua di questo libro è molto ricca di vocaboli nuovi per me e per questo un po' difficile ma l'atmosfera della vecchia casa di campagna è resa benissimo: odori, colori, suoni, sapori sono estremamente vividi. Storia dolce-amara, mi ha lasciato nostalgia dell'infanzia e un po' di tristezza. Consigliato!
I loved this book. Although it is a children's book this adult found it delightful. The time travel, the historic aspect, the love of family are all sweet and gentle and interesting. I highly recommend this 1939 book.
Classic time travel story with an intriguing story. When Penolope visits Thackers, an ancient farmhouse, she discovers she can time travel. All the way back to the time and turmoil of Mary, Queen of Scots.
Read by Imogen Rands.Travelling back and forth so 'buckle up, it's going to be a bumpy night'. An older child/YA tale of the Babington Plot.
If I could I would give this book 10 stars! It’s been a long time since I’ve read anything so achingly lovely and perfect. Alison Uttley creates a perfect picture of time-travel. A lovely, lovely novel!
This is up there with Playing Beatie Bow when it comes to YA time travel (or 'time slip') novels. I borrowed it from the library over and over as a kid. Gorgeous and compelling. I was briefly obsessed with Mary Queen of Scots after reading it for the first time.
I read this long ago for the adventure, I'm re-reading it for the beauty of the language.
After a while I considered that maybe it was a magical book that had appeared only for me to read and then vanished in the mists of time, having left me with a lasting love for the past and for England.Then a student in one of my online classes described the favorite books of her childhood and A Traveller in Time was one of them (thank you, Catherine!).
At Thackers Farm, she begins to slip through time, opening a door or looking out a window, into the lives of the Babington family who lived there in the 1600's.
A haunting, beautiful, compelling time slip novel - nominally written for children, but really, anyone who loves strong, good, well-written literature would enjoy this book, regardless of how old they are.
The book is carefully and excellently crafted, containing phrases like this: "I saw the web and woof of time threaded in a pattern, and I moved through the woven stuff with the silent footfall of a ghost" that stick with you after the last page.
The inevitable and unavoidable doom of Mary, Queen of Scots hangs over the book, providing that pleasant heartache that only the best time slip novels can produce.
