https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17899950-mary-anne
Further, much of the latter part of the book reads like transcripts from the parliamentary inquiry at which she gave evidence and the various trials in which she was involved.
If du Maurier had written a biography about her ancestor, this might have been a much better book.
Still, I don’t regret the time I’ve spent reading Mary Anne.
The central characters – for all they are mostly unlikeable - are vividly realised and never feel like transplants from du Maurier’s time.

I'm a bit conflicted about this book, I liked it and I'm glad I read it, but at the same time it really bothered me, it was depressing and I found myself alternating between being really proud of Mary Anne for being so strong and smart and being angry with her for being so foolish.Mary Anne Clarke was Daphne Du Maurier's great-great grandmother.
I'm sure I would have taken the sugar coated path if I had been writing about my great-great grandmother.Du Maurier describes the facade Mary Anne created to give people the impression she was living a luxurious and carefree life, the reader has to wonder if the same is true for the author.
Mary Anne, Daphne du MaurierDaphne du Maurier's novel Mary Anne is a fictionalised account of the real-life story of her great-grandmother, Mary Anne Clarke née Thompson. Mary Anne Clarke from 1803 to 1808 was mistress of Frederick Augustus, the Duke of York and Albany.
Disgusted with the marriage and desperate to support her children, Mary Anne finds herself tempted by a *cough* broker for the wealthy nobility and becomes mistress to Frederick Duke of York.
I loved the relationship between her and the Duke, particularly their first meeting in the *cough* broker's parlor where not knowing who she's set to meet she natters on about the latest court gossip (priceless!), to their first dinner and the popping buttons (you'll know when you get there) although tops was the way the author worked in Mary Anne getting those officer's names out there in between seducing the Duke.
I'm not sure how to feel about this book.
On one hand, I really admired certain traits of the title character, Mary Anne.
And these bills were for lavish things, like houses and jewelry and furniture.
But you know, you don't have to pay your bills as long as you claim you're a widow.
On the plus side, I can now rest easy knowing Americans didn't invent depending on credit.Anyway, I do love du Maurier, but this turned out to be my least favorite of her novels so far.

Mary Anne is an odd sort of beast, a mix of historical fact and fiction that doesn't quite work.
Mary Anne Clarke was the scandalous mistress of George III's son the Duke of York; she was also du Maurier's great-great-grandmother.
Clearly, Mary Anne led a very interesting life; unfortunately, though du Maurier succeeds in drawing the strength of her character, her style of telling Mary Anne's story is lackluster.
It would have been better as straight historical biography or as historical fiction than it is as a blend of both; as it is, there's too much invention (largely of dialogue) for it to seem reliable as history, and not enough emotion or narrative drive for it to work as fiction.
Then, in an excellent reversal of expectations, the first 100 or so pages tell instead the story of an extremely relatable, even heroic girl who is fighting against all odds to make some kind of decent life for herself, who falls in love, and gets wrapped up in the things beyond her control.
I like Mary Anne in these chapters.
Her fall from grace is a compelling plot point, but in the aftermath of it, she comes off as a helpless, complaining bitch.
Before the book was even halfway done, I had lost all sympathy of Mary Anne, and stopped reading.
This was the most interesting book I read all week.
Mary Anne was Daphne du Maurier's Great great grandmother.
And that is where this became very interesting.I am not sure how much of the truth has been changed, as this reads like a novel.
But it does make for interesting reading.
And there was a part that was skipped over that I would have liked to have fleshed out more - but maybe that is because I do not know what du Maurier knows about that experience.On a whole though, this novel speaks volumes about the limitations women experienced in the past.
Should you let this put you off?In a word: No.The book tells the story of Mary Anne Clark, who is born in a dingy part of the East End of London, marries a charming mason at 16, whose later drunkeness makes her take their children and leave him.
This is a half-hidden world that is rarely covered by other novels set in the Regency period, most of which focus on romances among the "Upper Ten Thousand" from which so many, like Mary Anne, are excluded, living at best on its edges: disposable and supposedly easily disregarded.
Ao contrário dos outros livros, este não tem elementos mais obscuros que criam o clima habitual de tensão.Neste livro, Daphne conta-nos a história da sua trisavó Mary Anne Clarke, numa Londres nos finais do século XVIII, inícios do século XIX, em que mistura um ambiente de sedução com escândalos de corrupção e políticos.Mary Anne é uma jovem pobre, mas que se serve da sua beleza como “trampolim” para a sua riqueza.Gostei bastante deste livro de Daphne pois caracteriza bem uma época Londrina passada, com as diferenças sociais existentes entre sexos e estratos sociais.A sua escrita continua a seguir a mesma linha, uma escrita simples e directa, que torna a leitura interessante e cativante, pois não apresenta informação a mais.
“Mary Anne” torna-se ainda mais interessante pela sua componente histórica, com muitos jogos políticos e corrupção que caracterizam aquela época.
Strong female vs.
all the men that come in her path.Daphne du Maurier's historical family fiction which was not her favorite of her novels but I found this just as wonderful as her other works I have read thus far.
She says this reads more like a newspaper but I strongly disagree & I think she was being too harsh on herself.
What I found in her story about her great grandmother who was a mistress to the Frederick the Duke of York during the Napoleonic wars was her exposing corruption on both sides & her strength in exposing all.
She was not politically motivated but self interest for her & her family.
Like Forever Amber or Gone with the Wind but not as rich. Good as far as it went, but it felt like the Cliff's Notes version -- should have been three times as long with lots more detail to really let you get inside the character's head, understand why men were obsessed with her, why she made the choices she did, what she felt about them. Without that it all feels a bit shallow and I ended up feeling more than a little sympathy with Mary Anne's children's opinion of her.
it's definitely not your typical du maurier: her imaginative powers are reined in by her account of woman's true story, a woman she was actually related to, and no doubt her acting family relished the connection to the mistress of the duke of york who had pulled herself out of the gutter. it's not what i look for in a du maurier novel but up until the endless courtroom scenes that make up the last three quarters of the book, she kept me interested. i found jamaica inn much less palatable than this one. :)
Not least because whilst the Duke forced Mary Anne to sign a contract agreeing never to reveal the details of their affair and the letters again, the contract did not include her relatives, which thus enabled du Maurier to do exactly this and have access to a myriad of original source material.
By the second time Mary Anne goes to trial against the men who have wronged her, the English press has got bored of her case and it is ignored.
There is a reason for this: her story gets dull and so by the time du Maurier is reprinting a second lot of letters and transcripts we too are rather bored.
Мери Анн Кларк е била колоритна личност - куртизанка, фейлетонистка и опортюнистка, която се е подвизавала из Лондон в началото на 19 век и е била замесена в не един политически скандал.
Книгата е доста нееднородна: първата половина се чете като исторически (любовен) роман, но втората половина преминава някак неестествено в сух документален роман с цитирани цели писма, съдебни речи и вестникарски статии.
Но фактите са си факти - Мери Анн Кларк е била жена, която държи изключително на външната украса на нещата, на опаковката пред съдържанието.В книгата ми допадна това, че куртизанството изглежда представено доста реалистично, със спадове и издигания.
This historical fiction work is based upon Mary Anne Clarke, a mistress to the Duke of York in early 1800's.
Mary Anne started life out basically in the slums and living day to day was a struggle for her family.
I found Mary Anne a fascinating woman always wondering what card she would play next.
Accounts are that she was sworn to never write about her time with the Duke in return for funds.
Proceedings against the Duke for improper/paid military promotions contain some information about their time together.
Let me preface this by saying: I love DDM.
Rebecca and Jamaica Inn are both favorites of mine, and I adore all her short stories.
All the things that make DdM's writing so engaging and unique were absent from this book.
Hardly any quippy dialog, no chemistry between any of the characters, and no plot twists.
Instead it was just pages of time-line style telling of a story, broken up here and there with some card-board interactions.
Took me over a month to read this because I could hardly bring myself to pick it up each night.

As always well written and a very good narrative. Unfortunately, the fictionalized story of the authors great grandmother Mary Anne Clarke, mistress to the Duke of York (being one in a considerable line of men) in the late 18th century really does not keep the interest up. The final third of the book concerns complicated court proceedings and not much else. Read some of the very productive and fine authors other books instead.
This is not my favorite du Maurier book because I better love her gothic tales. However I still listened to the entire book in a 24 hour period. I liked Mary Anne because she was so flawed and her descendant wrote about her with wit and honesty. I have a great-great-aunt who is a personal hero to me and I often think about writing her story through a historical fiction novel. Reading this book made me wish I felt better prepared to write a similar tribute.
In this novel, Daphne du Maurier recounts the life of her great-great-grandmother, Mary Anne Clarke.
The Duke failed to provide Mary Anne with the necessary allowance to keep her and her family in the lavish style that was expected of a royal mistress and to which she had become accustomed, which led to her taking payment in exchange for securing military commission sthrough the Duke.
The Duke himself, and the children she is supposedly fighting for, are basically non-entities in the background of the novel.Furthermore, Mary Anne became an increasingly difficult character to like.
Perhaps du Maurier would have been more successful had she told her great-great-grandmother's tale as a true biography and work of non-fiction.
This is the main focus of the story although it charts both her life before the Duke and touches on her being prosecuted for libel (which she was imprisoned for) and her time in France.There's no doubt about it, Mary Anne Clarke is a fascinating woman and makes for a wonderful main character.
Du Maurier herself criticized the book for this very reason (Mary Anne was one of her least favourite novels).
It really gives the novel a disjointed feel and it's a pity because we start to lose Mary Anne's character and the well written pace of the previous two parts.
This book is about Mary Anne Clarke, the Monica Lewinsky of her day that brought the Duke of Yorkshire (King George III's younger son) to ruin after he ends their affair and casts her aside.
Mary Anne's climb from London street rat to the mistress of a Prince through her wits (and wit) alone are very interesting and engaging.
Though based of courtroom testimony and historical letters it is tedious and the narrative has no clear direction.Daphne du Maurier is one of my favorite authors, her range is astounding.
I wouldn't recommend Mary Anne unless you're like me and intend to read everything du Maurier wrote.
This book is a work of fiction about her life.
Mary Anne got out of a marriage to a drunk and a gambler, but she needed money to survive and to take care of her children.
I found most of the book boring and/or confusing.
I didn’t like most of the characters.
Maybe the confusing came in, at least partially, because I was bored, and therefore, not retaining a lot of what I was reading.
But that was maybe only about a quarter of the book.
After that, too many characters, some politics and I got bored.
Synopsis from book: An ambitious, stunning, and seductive young woman, Mary Anne finds the single most rewarding way to rise above her miserable cockney world: she will become the mistress to a royal duke.
Mary Anne glitters with sex, scandal, corruption, and the privileged world of high society.
Based on the true story of one of du Maurier's own distant relatives, Mary Anne's love of money and the men who spend it embroil her in risks that threaten her very existence.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Not one of my most favorite of du Maurier's novels, it was interesting enough, but the court scenes dragged a bit and it became a bit repetitious in spots.
3.5 starsLike Moll Flanders, but with better prose and a true story. The first two-thirds of the book, concerning Mary Anne's climb up the social ladder resulting in an affair with a prince, I found engaging, but the last third became somewhat of a slog. I think if the trial had been reduced to Mary Anne's testimony alone, it would've been an improvement.
Mary Anne was Daphne du Maurier's great-great-grandmother. This is a novel about Mary Anne's life. She married a ne'er do well and later became mistress to a royal duke. She became part of a scandal that shocked England's staid Victorian society. I truly enjoyed this book although it became very legal towards the end. I give this story an A!
This is a hardback book. Ms. Du Maurier researches her books before writing them so it appears as historical fiction and is this adds to my interest in reading the book.
