https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1294332.Girl_with_Green_Eyes
It carries on after The Country Girls which is a sweet, sad, hilarious and heartfelt autobiographical first novel about growing up in the priest-ridden West of Ireland in the early 50s, and thank your lucky stars if you didn't.
Do something, sink your inadequacy into washing the walls or mending my socks…" (p226)And Kate saysI knew that if I loved him enough I would put up with anything from him.So, given the above, I can't say I recommend this novel!
But I will press on with the third in the trilogy which is called Girls in their Married Bliss – an ironic title, I'm thinking.
Rereading it after 30 years, I guess I enjoyed the novel as much as I did the first time round.
The girls are infuriating but realistic, the film-maker hero plausible and the settings lovely.
The love story made me aware how much change there has been around us since I first read it.
Does this make the novel old-fashioned?
Not quite the last page, which redeems the preceding pages somewhat, but the lovers' last quarrel doesn't sound quite right.I was amused to learn that the novel was first published as 'The Lonely Girl'.
Going out in town, they meet many boys and men, but Eugene captures Kate’s interests – and yes, becomes the previously mentioned ‘path to damnation’ for her.I like the perspective the story is told in: it clearly attacks the hypocrisy of the ruling catholic Irish world at that time (and not only Ireland might I add), but at the same time it doesn’t colour Kate in a rosy light either.
A book like this makes me wonder how many lives it ruined, how many people it isolated after they were swept up by a number of events, and couldn't tell what way their life was going.
I read this about 25 years ago when I was 14, and on Saturday I was lucky enough to see Edna O'Brien (now aged 85) speak at event near where I live.
She was so wonderful - warm and funny - and the book is just the same.
She has a really interesting style of writing - she'll often add a non sequitur onto the end of a paragraph that brings me up short, in a wonderful way.
It reminds me a lot of the way Barbara Comyns wrote, and sometimes Shirley Jackson.
Remind me to read this again in another 25 years if I haven't done so.
I had read the entire trilogy back in 2004, which is when I fell in love with O'Brien, so this was a second reading.She captures so well the innocence and emotional states of Kate and her friend Baba.
In some ways my early twenties were more exciting than anything in life so far but in the end there was more heartbreak than fun.Kate's drunken father plays a huge role as he shows up at Eugene's house with a priest and a friend.
Enjoyed this just as much as Book 1, The Country Girls.O'brien is a deceptively gifted writer, and the book is filled with many light strokes and deft touches; the beauty is in the detail of the observations.
Anyone who has experienced young love should be able to identify with the feelings for that special person which turn the world upside down.I look forward to reading, at some stage soon, Book 3 -- Girls in their Married Bliss; and possibly also some of the author's other works.
You know how the Thing about Edna here is the fact that she, for the first time, unveiled the secret desires of the female heart for the world to see or some such thing?That's a remarkable intent for sure, but if this - dresses and dances and men - is all the Modern Woman is supposed to be thinking of, it would have been better if the secret desires of the female heart had stayed secret.Oh, I know, it's the Sixties.
How can she chase after married men like a bitch in heat (but without the sexual part) and live to please them, and then cry because that prevents her from pleasing all the other people in her life?
That was my first taste of O’Brien’s work and it’s been too long since I’ve been back.
It’s a tale of young love set in O’Brien’s native Ireland.
It’s a novel about a clash of cultures.
O’Brien skilfully uses the medium of a woman in her early twenties falling in love with a much older (and essentially a much more married man) to portray the gap between contemporary Irish culture and the traditional.Traditional Irish culture gets treated mercilessly.
This makes the novel important for capturing the essence of its time, but its weakness for me was that it did not transcend this.
The follow up book to The Country Girls and just as easy a read; I finished this in a day.
It's not that it's shallow or trite it's more that the prose and the plot are simple and easy to follow.
Kate is still very young, although she's starting to stand up a little more on her own, without so much dependence on her frenemy Baba, for which I am thankful!
Baba goes more for the flashy, she's a girl with an eye for the main chance in other words.I'm interested enough that I'll pick up the third and final book in the series at some point even though it isn't a 1001 book.
Mi intristisce la protagonista Kate, anche se capisco la sua lotta: lei vuole fuggire la vita orribile e orribilmente vuota nel suo paesino natale, con il padre ubriacone e violento e la sottomessa zia, ma al tempo stesso non aspira alla vita della ragazza moderna come l'amica Baba, anche se in qualche modo sembra sentirsi costretta a provarci.
Alla fine del romanzo Kate sembra non aver imparato nulla dalle sue avventure, tant'è che tocca come al solito a Baba arrivare, prenderla per un braccio e trascinarla via...
I was surprised by this little book...I found it in a pile of books my mother-in-law was planning on getting rid of.
I'm not sure if I will seek out the other two books, but if I come across them, I will definitely read them.
The depth of emotion that is expressed by the characters in so short a book was surprising, as was the familiarity of emotion expressed.
Any woman who ever had an ill-fated love affair will surely relate to Caithleen and her friend Baba.
I recommend if you like realistic romance/coming-of-age type stories.
Ma è curiosa, ha un occhio matto, è piena di vita, e soprattutto consapevole del fatto che la sua vita è solo sua e che va vissuta fino in fondo, a dispetto di ogni costrizione e di ogni abuso familiare, lontana da ogni imposizione religiosa e dalla campagna dov’è cresciuta.Ricomincia a Dublino, la sua nuova vita, e ricomincia a Dublino il secondo capitolo della trilogia delle ragazze di campagna (la definizione è mia, ignoro se e come venga definita), dove Caithleen e Baba ormai vivono dopo essere state cacciate dal collegio religioso dove erano state mandate a studiare.Ed è qui, in fuga dalla famiglia e dai pettegolezzi di un paese bigotto e pettegolo, dove scopre il sesso, l’amore, l’indipendenza e il prezzo della libertà, che anche la scrittura di Edna O’Brien si libera per diventare più intensa e coinvolgente; ed è sempre qui che amore e sesso, romanticismo e sensualità, finiscono per trovare l’equilibrio perfetto e trasformare la ragazza di campagna in una donna.
The Lonely Girl is the second novel in Edna O'Brien's trilogy The Country Girls.
The girls are still living together in a Dublin rooming house when the story opens -- Kate the serious dreamy one and Baba the wild party girl.
On one level, I found it hard to like Kate here because her tears and sulks were not only off-putting but also stupid: That's no way to get or keep your man.
Like the first novel, The Lonely Girl was banned and even burned in Ireland because of its sexual content.
But when Caithleen meets the older, sophisticated and already married Eugene, she looses a lot of her country innocence.The main characters of Caithleen, Baba and Eugene all kind of got under my skin.
While nothing much happens we witness Caithleen wrestle with her feelings, whether or not to do what is expected of her or what her heart tells her to do.I'm not sure if I'd recommend this book but it's good if you want an easy chick-lit style read.Two Stars** Here's a link to my  blog  for more reviews !!!
Kate is 'sincere' (a trait highly admired by her late mother); Baba takes one day at a time and rarely looks back.But I'm engaged enough to carry on with the trilogy and see where it leads in the final installment, Girls in Their Married Bliss.
In a recent interview on RTÉ One television (The Meaning of Life with Gay Byrne, broadcast 21 Feb.), she related the ways she was terrorised as a child by her father and how the success of her first book, The Country Girls, produced such jealousy in Gébler that it lead to their divorce.
The books centre on Caitleen, a country girl who has left her small community to move to Dublin with her best friend Baba.
This book centres on the relationship that develops between Caitleen and Eugene.The beauty of this story is that Eugene is a married man who for reasons never quite clear is separated from his wife and daughter.
Caitleen herself is quite irritating by comparison, she gravitates to older men probably because her father is a terrible role model and a drunk.This story is gives a great account of the time and I really enjoyed it.
I tried, I really tried to like Edna O'Brien. A colleague had donated several of her books to our little in work library and spoke enthusiastically about her, but try as I might I just couldn't catch the enthusiasm. Maybe it was the wrong place and time. Maybe these books needed to be read by a much younger self. I just didn't care enough about the heroine. She seemed so shallow and flimsy which would not have mattered a whit if she had changed.... But then... I may not even be remembering that correctly. Oh dear.... The damning word.... UNMEMORABLE
After listening to an Edna O'Brien short story, I pulled this out of my bookshelf where it has been for about twenty years. I found it both refreshing and charmingly old-fashioned, with some kind of British invasion energy (although it is thoroughly Irish). An excellent read.
مملة ولا أنصح بقرأتها فهي تروي قصة فتاة ريفية تقع في حب رجل كبير متزوج كم اكره هذا النوع من الروايات الذي يسرق الوقت منا
Didnt like it much
Irlanda, metà del '900: lei, Caithleen detta Kate, giovane e inesperta, viene dalla campagna e da un'educazione cattolica molto inibente; lui, Eugene, maturo e pragmatico, viene dal mondo alto-borghese e, nonostante qualche vincolo famigliare, vive in libertà di pensiero e azione.
E persino facendo l'amore, ricordai le nostre difficoltà, i mondi separati, diversi, da cui ognuno di noi proveniva; lui che, controllato, pieno di livore e di intolleranza, conosceva tutti e sapeva tutto – io, che vacillavo e mi impaurivo ad ogni alito di vento, sbadata, un po' pazza (come diceva lui), cresciuta (sempre come diceva lui) «nell'ignoranza dell'età della pietra e nell'inciviltà della religione».
Edna O`Brien`s writing knocks me out.
Her upclose knowledge of the minds of young women setting out into the world alone or with wild roommates.
The two friends venture to make lives in London and become derailed by the men they meet.They are easily led by them and vulnerable to their moves and to their guidance.
The men young and old are magnetically drawn to the young women on their tottering heels and lipsticked mouths and their innocence and their desire to grow up fast as they can.I love O`Brien`s descriptions of the English country side and the trees, rivers,hedgerows, the gardens,ravens, the stone walls the sheep and cattle,gates.
This book is so 60’s. Hated when a boyfriend wanted to control how the girlfriend behaves, enjoyed to read how Cait and Baba had become so independent and modern, making their own decisions in a society ruled by man. The end of the book is a surprise, though. They decide to go London and run away from Ireland and their “so” catholic society. Starting book 3, right now.
An oddly suspenseful page turner -- will Caithleen, a bright but immature girl, and Eugene, a world-weary divorcee, make it work somehow? No-one here seems wholly bad or wholly good, lurching from one decision to another out of passion or circumstance. I want to call it an Angry Young Woman novel and wonder why I didn't study it alongside Saturday Night and Sunday Morning at school.
This is Edna O'Brien at her very, very best.'Girl With Green Eyes' (1962, originally published as: 'Lonely Girl') is the second in O'Brien's Country Girls trilogy.
This is classic O'Brien continuing the "coming of age" story the way O'Brien knows best.Kate meets Eugene Gaillard, a Protestant divorcé, with whom she enters into a renounced and forbidden relationship.
It is not surprising to learn that 'The Country Girls' was banned in O'Brien's native Ireland (she now lives at the age of 83 in London) upon publication; but doesn't the majority of banned books turn out to be the best simply because of their controversy rather than despite it?
Still, they get involved, and after an anonymous letter is sent to her father telling him about the kind of man Eugene is (including a few lies such as that he's giving Caithleen dope), the drunkard father comes to Dublin to "rescue" his daughter and take her home.
This is one of the things that makes me cross whilst reading these books and wanting to read on, the fact that everyone, through whatever intention, is trying to control and mould Caithleen.
I suppose it was always going to come out one way or another, but I suspect it was Baba behind those letters.
Tanto che a questo punto penso di non finire la serie con il terzo e conclusivo romanzo della serie, Ragazze nella felicità coniugale: primo perché non ce l'ho e dovrei richiederlo in biblioteca, secondo perché a questo punto non m'importa più di come finisca la storia di Caithleen e Baba, detta sinceramente.
Se il primo romanzo mi aveva deluso perché lo desideravo da anni e perché obiettivamente mi aspettavo un buon libro, il secondo mi ha annoiata perché la protagonista principale, Caithleen, non fa altro che piangersi addosso, fare figure patetiche e finendo per avere comportamenti che in realtà prova tanto a rinnegare: è una ragazza di campagna che gioca a non esserlo, non riuscendoci.
Caithleen's adventures continue in Dublin where The Country Girls left off.
She falls in love with another older man, but this time things go further than they did with "Mr. Gentleman" in the first book.If anything, I liked this even more than The Country Girls.
Caithleen's voice is so perfectly believable for a 20-year-old -- she's almost more consumed with embarrassment and concern that she behave properly than she is with the big, sometimes exciting events she's taking part in.
I'm eager to discover her take on things, because she's a world away from Caithleen.
Originally published as The Lonely Girl, this is the middle installment in O'Brien's trilogy.
There's fun, yes, and mistakes, yes, but O'Brien's arc spans all three novels.
They make choices as though those choices will make a difference, but they don't really believe it.
The novel was filmed as a very English movie, with Rita Tushingham (Kate), Peter Finch, and Lynn Redgrave (Baba), in 1964, retitled as Girl with Green Eyes.
It's okay as an English movie, but as an adaptation, it's wanting because it has had all its Irishness extracted.
The whole point is different.
I actually enjoyed this book more than the first in the trilogy.However, Caithleen has not changed much.
As may be typical of a girl whose mother died when she was young and who grew up with an alcoholic father and a domineering best friend (Baba), Caithleen just wants to please.
With no supervision, a friend who just wants to have fun, and a job, Caithleen cannot be trusted to do what is best for herself or for herself.
She has no real opinions of her own to trust, as she can't read people at all.Must read book 3.
