https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/844793.Dark_Passage
“He told himself she wasn’t really such a bad person, she was just a pest, she was sticky, there was something misplaced in her make-up, something that kept her from fading clear of people when they wanted to be in the clear.” It turns out that she thought Parry was perfect for her.
The manhunt that follows starts to make prison seem like the good old days.
It clicked with the fact that he had a cigarette in his mouth, watching the smoke go up, and the police didn’t know he was here.”Bodies keep turning up, and Parry keeps finding himself in the frame.
Now that I’ve read the book I’d like to watch the movie again.
To those who read, however, and especially those who enjoy a good crime noir, Goodis’s name would be known and bandied about during discussions of the genre, regardless.Anyone familiar with the very good film based on the book knows that for the first forty minutes or so of the movie, we are in Parry’s (Bogart’s) shoes during the prison break and the ensuing escape.
Goodis’s entire novel is the equivalent of that portion of the film, the reader placed into Parry’s head, “hearing” him panic, reason out things, fight his fear and paranoia, and finally, figure out who killed his unfaithful wife and framed him for the murder.Tightly constructed and narratively claustrophobic, Dark Passage is a unique narrative that won’t appeal to everyone.
To me the style of the story is more like Hitchcock than anything else, with dream sequences and internal monologues inspired from the work of Carl Jung, with color coded mise-en-scene where orange and violet and yellow and dark gray reflect the mood or the personality of the characters, with the sustained tension and the ambiguity about the guilt of the main character (Vincent has a violent streak and black-out moments when he loses his temper).It's hard to pick a favorite scene, but I would go for the flashbacks detailing Parry's failed marriage (the fire opal ring) and for the portrait of Fellsinger - Vincent Parry's close friend from his former job as an insurance clerk: You know me.
Brilliant little novel about loneliness and identity disguised as crime fiction and mystery.
Goodis stretches his stream of consciousness expressionism with talking corpses and other weirdness as escaped convict Vincent Parry sheds one identity after another.
Parry initially gets so much bad luck that even when the breaks start coming he practically throws them away.
He escapes San Quentin seemingly by accident or fate.
Vincent Parry is on the run after escaping from San Quentin. Framed for a murder he claims he didn't commit, he has a lot to lose. Enjoyed this mystery/thriller. Deliciously noir with a definite psychological bent. Parry doesn't know who to trust and his fear is tangible. A relatively small cast of characters so wasn't to difficult to know who had the motive to commit the crime. Enjoyed the atmosphere and getting inside Parry's thoughts and fears. Fast paced, wonderful dialogue, well worth a look at.
It is at this juncture where the story really begins -- as fate intervenes in the form of young Irene Janney, who, for her own reasons, had followed Parry's trial and is now willing to go to great risk helping him out after his escape.
You can read more of my post  here but the bottom line is that I loved this novel, and I think it is a masterful and solid piece of noir writing, a book where plot is definitely secondary to Goodis' skill as an author.
Really great book that evokes the nostalgia of early 20th century movies, but it's not complete at all without watching the film as well.
A prison break, a murder, an assault, an attempt at grand theft auto, an unfaithful husband, and bribing law enforcement - yet Goodis' protagonist, Vince Parry comes across as a soft hearted, overtly emotionally man who personifies the noir 'wrong-man' stereotype.
After being convicted for the murder of his cheating significant other, Parry finds himself behind bars at San Quentin.
There's also a nice side bar which plays on Parry's paranoia following his escape - keep in mind the Studebaker while reading...
Goodis will question Parry's sanity and humility throughout, making 'Dark Passage' all the more true to the title.
με παλιά ρούχα, στον ρατσισμό που αντιμετώπισαν οι Εβραίοι της Αμερικής, στην ραγδαία αύξηση των ενεχυροδανειστηρίων ως αποτέλεσμα της οικονομικής κρίσης μετά τον πόλεμο, στην τρέλλα του εύκολου πλουτισμού, και στη εξέλιξη της πλαστικής χειρουργικής, η οποία, την εποχή εκείνη, γινόταν, κυρίως, παράνομα.Γενικά, υπάρχουν αρκετά διάσπαρτα 'hard-boiled' στοιχεία, ατμόσφαιρα φόβου, παιχνίδια γάτας με το ποντίκι, και δολοφονικά ερωτικά πάθη, τα οποία δίνουν αρκετό ενδιαφέρον σε αυτή την μυστηριώδη ιστορία καταδίωξης.Συνολική Βαθμολογία: 3,5/5 ή 7/10.Βαθμολογία λόγω πρωτότυπης πλοκής: 8,4/10.Υ.Γ.: Υπάρχουν και αρκετά λάθη που έγιναν κατά την γρήγορη εκτύπωση του βιβλίου.
So it came as something of a surprise the other day to realize I'd never read the source novel, even though its author, David Goodis, is one whose work I've always enjoyed.Well, problem easily enough solved.Vincent Parry, innocent of killing his wife but convicted anyway, escapes from San Quentin and is soon rescued by rich divorcee Irene Janney, who has been following the case and believes in his innocence.
There's an air of almost magic realism about the proceedings, as if Goodis is aware that we know the events of the book could never really pan out as described but expects us to go along with him anyway; I think that's part of the reason I find the movie so fascinating, and it worked for me here with the novel as well.
DARK PASSAGE. (1946). David Goodis. ****. Goodis, a Philadelphia native, wrote many books that fell into the noir category. Quite a few of them were adapted into film. This novel, one of his earlier ones, was adapted for the screen and featured Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall. Goodis’ writing was of a staccato style, and most of his work was issued as paperback originals. In this novel, we meet Vincent Parry, a man convicted of killing his wife, Gert, by smashing her on the head with a heavy a
In this novel, we meet Vincent Parry, a man convicted of killing his wife, Gert, by smashing her on the head with a heavy ashtray.
He manages to escape from San Quentin and is ultimately picked up by a man in a Studebaker, whose name, we later learn, was Arbogast.
The two of them had an argument while on the road, and Parry drags Arbogast off the road, out of his car, and beats him unconscious – taking his clothes and, ultimately, his Studebaker.
You won’t be bowled over by Goodis’s style, but he manages to keep you reading on to the end.
I loved this. Dark Passage is the most Cornell Woolrich like book I've encountered (which isn't by Woolrich). Darkness, night, surreal dreamlike sequences. I loved the ambiguity of this novel. The conversing (in his mind) with dead people parts were great, and the use of color. From 1946, this book was contemporary with Woolrich.
The Delmer Daves movie was good, but Goodis's book was better.Vincent Parry is in jail for murdering his wife.
He returns to his friend Felsinger's apartment to find him stretched out on the floor in a pool of blood.
Then, even with his new face, a crook named Arbogast is on to him.
Goodis's plot is intricate and requires close attention, but he repays the reader with a good story with some nice literary touches, including a dialogue with the body of his friend Felsinger which has to be seen to be believed.
miss me with all these "hot sticky summer days" in San Francisco. Has Goodis ever been here? All summer I'm wearing a fleece jacket.
David Goodis is a master of crime writing, but try to block the Humphrey Bogart noir movie classic while reading this. Can't do it, can you? Neither can I. Read it anyway.
David Goodisgoodisgoodisgood.
"the morning light came down and tried to glimmer on the Studebaker.
There was no polish on the Studebaker and very little paint, therefore very little glimmer."  "Gerald would say that aside from all this, aside from all the filthy dealing involved, the stink of deceit and lies and the lousy taste of conniving and corruption, it was possible for a human being to live in this world and be honorable within himself.
To be honorable within oneself, Gerald would say, was the only thing could give living a true importance, an actual nobility." - This is noir poetry.
A man now on the run, Parry seeks a way to hide out while he tries to find the identity of the real killer.
We see this in Dark Passage, with Parry on the run, a marked man who not only must try to evade being caught, but also internalizes life through the course of the plot.
In Dark Passage, we also have a murder mystery on our hands.
I wouldn’t rank this one as high as Shoot the Piano Player, but Dark Passage is still a thoroughly engaging work with many of the Goodis staples and signature traits.
I read this book, actually, as part of the volume,  Five Noir Novels of the 1940s and 50s from the Library of America. As always, I can't rave enough about the heirloom-quality craftsmanship of these excellent volumes.Dark Passage is one of the quintessential books of the Noir genre, adapted to the silver screen in a movie starring Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall. I'll have to admit that I only learned about the existence of the movie while I was reading the book. I have yet to watch the movie
As always, I can't rave enough about the heirloom-quality craftsmanship of these excellent volumes.Dark Passage is one of the quintessential books of the Noir genre, adapted to the silver screen in a movie starring Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall.
I'll have to admit that I only learned about the existence of the movie while I was reading the book.
I've heard that the book is better than the movie...but isn't that usually the case?Reading the novel, I strongly picked up on the feeling of near-hysterical dread that threatened to engulf Vincent Parry, a man framed for a crime he did not commit.
Every new paragraph I would come to, I would find myself doting inside, "what cool thing is he going to do now?" Then there is the economy.
It reminds me of Stephen Crane's impressionism, as in the following sample for instance:DELLA’S CAr was a pale green Pontiac, a new convertible, and they had the top down as they ran past Lancaster, going west on Route 30, holding it at fifty miles an hour with the sun over their heads and honeysuckle coming into their faces.
He wasn't trying to write Middlemarch.One more thing, the "flame opal" passage!
Framed for murder - a set-up almost as old as the genre itself.
Likewise, author Goodis - known for his post-WWII noir writings - is less interested in writing a whodunit and more interested in exploring the intense pressure and despair felt by a man on the run.
Goodis uses long run-on sentences - which I normally loathe, however they work well here - to show the stress and paranoia felt by Parry in even the most mundane settings.
But the story retains the pulpy fun from its serial origin in the Saturday Evening Post, with cliffhangers at the end of each chapter and a big reveal at the end (which will probably not surprise anyone).
I love this kind of story where just about everything that can go wrong goes wrong. Luckily for me, ace writer David Goodis keeps the suspense pitched pretty tightly all the while closing down avenues of escape and throwing up roadblocks for the hapless protagonist.
My first Goodis and it certainly won't be my last!Hint: Don't read this magnificent story if you're trying to quit cigarettes :)
Interesting read. Way too many convenient coincidences for my taste.
This was a good noir story, some bits unbelievable, but overall it was good. Well-written and well-paced.
movie with bogart and lauren bacall is entertaining but the book is beter
So fast paced. I couldn't put it down. How does someone write like that??
This author has a very interesting writing style...if Gertrude Stein had written in the noir genre, her books would have had a similar voice. Good, good writing...
This book nearly gave me a panic attack. Its texture of claustrophobic dread is something to marvel over.
The LOA collection opens with "Dark Passage", Goodis' second novel, serialized in the Saturday Evening Post and then published in book form in 1946.
In a passage late in the book, Parry describes his life and his dreams, as he thinks he has discovered the murderers:"And the pattern kept expanding, showing him the simple and ordinary happiness he had expected to find with Gert, the clean and decent happiness of the little guy who wasn't important and had no special urge to be important and wanted nothing more than a daily job to do and someone to open a door for him at night and give him a smile.""Dark Passages" is a sad lyrical novel about lonely people.
