https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835623.How_the_Mind_Works
Alas, I have not kept with further advances, but my guess is that it is still a very relevant read today.The study is very well structured as a survey of the various considerations on how the mind works, and it is written in a very engaging style.
He proposes that probably only an entity with higher abilities than those of our brain would be able to look down upon human Consciousness and understand what it is (does he mean a god, or a machine, or martians?).Of course, so far he is completely right.
The "proof" that Pinker refers to when trying to back his claims that (simply put) evolution and innateness alone explain the differences between the sexes when it comes to attitudes to sex (the male hunter/gatherer has logically a greater chance of spreading his genes since he doesn't have to carry the baby for nine months, and so on) is based on polls filled out by university students.
That these students are also caught up in a social reality doesn't seem to have crossed Pinker's mind.Good scholars know where to draw the boundaries between science and speculation.
In other words, he knows that his scientific field is limited to a certain aspect of human nature and language, and thus doesn't try to explain more than can be deducted by reasoning from the facts presented.
I started this, listened to 3.5 hours of the audiobook’s total of 26 and simply couldn’t imagine continuing.
The first chapter (2.5 hours), which the author calls an “opening brief”, can in simple terms be seen as an introduction.
To better understand the field of cognitive science I am looking for a book based on solid scientific backing, not one based on speculation.
I disliked the manner in which the author gave an enormous number of examples which supposedly were meant to prove the generalizations made.
In a book such as this a listener needs time to consider what is being said so they can themselves evaluate what they are being told.
To put it bluntly: our genes are selfish, but we are not (not necessarily, unconditionally so at least)."Him: "One last question, so how are we different than our genes?"And my reply and the whole point of this post:This may sound mean, but it’s simple.
A reviewer of a book about the evolution of sexuality protests that human adultery, unlike the animal equivalent, cannot be a strategy to spread genes because adulteres take steps to prevent pregancy.
If the genes don’t get propagated, it’s because we are smarter than they are.
As we shall see, sometimes the most selfish thing a gene can do is build a selfless brain.
Pinker delves deeply into the reasons why the mind has evolved to make decisions in the way it does.
There is very little discussion about the biology of the brain; the book points out that a good understanding of the origins of human behavior requires descriptions at a higher level--at the level of the mind, and how it evolved through natural selection.
Pinker shows how natural selection has worked its way into every nook and cranny of the mind ...
I've read other books by Pinker, and they are all great.
Highly recommended to every human with a mind!
It's certainly not the writing; Pinker is quite good (despite a tendency to repeat himself frequently).I think it boiled down to two things for me, with both of them being closely related (and maybe even the same):1.
This is a 565-page book with only eight chapters.
Each chapter is almost a short book on its own, divided into many sections.
While a common theme ties together each chapter the sections are often quite divergent.
It was hard to maintain momentum when moving from one section to another that seemed only tangentially related.2.
I think for anyone there would be parts that are interesting and parts that aren't.Having said that, I still recommend this book.

As this book was written in 2007, it misses the neurological synthesis of the computational and emotional aspects of the mind achieved by Damasio in his 2009 book and the decade of great ferment in cognitive neuroscience due to studies using Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging.No matter how much it looks like he is on the pathway to biological determinism for so many “bad” human behaviors, he takes great pains to dissociate our inherited mental equipment from our systems of moral responsibility and vision of equal rights: "To understand is not to forgive".
What parts of the brain create awareness?
Why do paintings and music alleviate the hunger and thurst of mind?
How did these items adapt in the long run if it serves to nothing from an evolutionary perspective?
...The book covers the computational theory of mind (mind is the computational product of the brain) and evolutionary psychology.
There is a very little discussion about the biology of the brain but it still ponders over human natures to explain them from the biological adaptations and  the by-product of evolution  perspectives.
So, at least the connecting experience with a first-rate mind might not be frustrating :)
20-30 years from now, I think most people will understand that there's nothing "magical" about the "mind", the "soul", religion, art, men, women, or any of the other sacred cows that continue to hold back humans from understanding themselves.How the Mind Works was published back in 1997, but I didn't encounter any of the points that Pinker made in High School or Collage, up until 2000.
This book frequently gets rave reviews.
Whenever i sit down to read Pinker, i wish i were drinking again.
Here is an example of a typical quotation from this book that i could only follow if i were drunk: "The cobalt 60 nucleus is said to spin counterclockwise if you look down on its north pole, but that description by itself is circular because 'north pole' is simply what we call the end of the axis from which a rotation looks counterclockwise." This is in the middle of a discussion, in which he puts down Richard Feynman, and concludes "God is not ambidextrous after all." I feel that Pinker presents his material in an annoyingly obtuse way and may be drinking when he writes.
I read all bio-determinist arguments, no matter how sound their science, as a mandate to return to the 50's - those halcyon days when men schnoockered their secretaries while women bought canned foods and tended the young. Nonetheless, I loved this book. The early chapters, especially on the computational theory of mind, are incredible. Pinker is just unbelievably detailed and the linguistic spin he brings to the discussion of cognitive development is a great dimension. The later chapters are more of the men-like-variety-women-like-providers stuff that one usually hears but nuanced and entertaining nonetheless. I enjoyed this book a lot.
Alternate title: "How I can make up a flimsy evolutionary-psychology excuse for everything people do, and look sort of like the lead singer of Foreigner while I'm doing it."
"http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/1289334.html[return][return]I was really disappointed by this book.
Pinker starts out by claiming that he will explain the origins of human emotions, aesthetics, and belief in the context of the latest findings of evolutionary and psychological research.
[return][return]I found precisely two points of interest in the book, both pretty tangential to the main thrust of the argument.
This observation is not Pinker's own, but he does give pretty full citations for it which the interested reader can follow up.[return][return]I hear that Pinker's other books are better, so shall continue to look out for them though without particular enthusiasm."

I began reading this because of my book club.
So, I have decided to put it down as one of those books I'll never finish.I didn't like most of what I read, not due to the subject/topic, but due to the way Pinker writes.
But Pinker would, more often than not, find a way to make the topic at hand induce heavy eyelids (or eye rolling, depending).I wanted this book to be good and thought it would be interesting, being a Bachelor of Psychology graduate myself, but no such luck.
Maybe in many years, when I have more time on my hands, or less sense, I will try picking this book up again.
HOW THE MIND WORKS. (1997). Steven Pinker. ***. Pinker is professor of psychology and director of the Center for Cognitive Neuroscience at MIT. He wrote a bestseller prior to this book, “The Language Instinct.” I had great hopes of learning lots more about recent advances in neuroscience and behavioral science from this book, but found only the same material wrapped in a different sets of analogies and references. The author approached his topic via reverse engineering. He explored the tools and
Pinker is professor of psychology and director of the Center for Cognitive Neuroscience at MIT.
He wrote a bestseller prior to this book, “The Language Instinct.” I had great hopes of learning lots more about recent advances in neuroscience and behavioral science from this book, but found only the same material wrapped in a different sets of analogies and references.
I think one of the problems is that the book itself is sixteen years old.
What was discussed in this book has become relatively common knowledge by this time.
If you are looking for an introductory treatise, however, this might be the book for you.
impenetrable, repetitive, useless ... did I say I was disappointed?
I really enjoyed his first book "The Language Instinct", so was looking forward to reading his second "How The Mind Works".
If you'd like to read a lot of scientific case studies concerning how the mind works, then this book is for you.
I must say that there were many interesting and revealing points and examples cited about animal and human behavior, social psychology and human nature.Being an identical twin, I liked a true story Pinker told.
In 1998 someone bit off half the ear of a California police officer.
This book covers the computational theory of mind and evolutionary psychology.
The former asserts that the mind is the computational product of the brain.
Both are explained in exquisite depth (read: this is a very long book).Pinker gets one thing wrong at the end when he asserts what's known as the the "hard problem of consciousness" which his refers to as sentience.
He also makes a misstatement about free will."Sentience is not a combination of brain events or computational states.""Free will is not a causal chain of events and states by definition."This is frustrating because I feel like he ran a 3 minute mile but stopped just shy of the finish line!He's wrong on both counts.
في هذا الكتاب يتحدث ستيفن بنكر أستاذ العلوم الإدراكية وعالم النفس بشكل أساسي عن نظرية العقل الحسابيةcomputational theory of the mindبالعربي، الرجل يتحدث عن العقل (ليس المخ) من وجهة نظر أخرى غير اعتيادية. وجهة نظر تطورية. فيفسر العمليات الادراكية داخل العقل بقوى تطورية (داروينية) وبقوانين حاسويبة.النظريات التي طرحها وتحدث عنها بنكر رائعة وطريقة شرحها أروعقد يكون عنوان الكتاب مضلل بعض الشي. لكنه كتاب يستحق القراءة
This book is way too long, and the last part (about philosophy) is fairly ill-informed. The most surprising thing is that cognitive psychology is limited to perception and the imagery debate; no discussion of memory, very limited discussion of reasoning, not to mention planning or motor planning. For today's standards, it's outdated by David Buss's text on evolutionary psychology.
13h @ 2x.~Contents:(view spoiler)[Pinker S (1997) (26:09) How the Mind WorksPreface1.
Thinking Machines– The Search for Intelligent Life in the Universe– Natural Computation– The Defending Champion– Connectoplasm– Aladdin's Lamp3.
Revenge of the Nerds– Get Smart– Life's Designer– The Blind Programmer– Instinct and Intelligence– The Cognitive Niche– Why Us?– What Now?4.
The Mind's Eye– Deep Eye– Lighting, Shading, Shaping– Seeing in Two and a Half Dimensions– Frames of Reference– Animal Crackers– Imagine That!5.
Good Ideas– Ecological Intelligence– Little Boxes– Core Curriculum– A Trivium– Eureka!6.
Afterword (2009)NotesReferencesIndex (hide spoiler)]
How the Mind Works certainly feels much more solidly founded in science while still maintaining the how-science-fits-into-real-life perspective of a popular science book.It’s not a perfect book.
Given the great complexity he describes in the lower-level workings of the human brain, I felt surprised at how often he seemed to be over-simplifying higher-level human psychology; at the the same time, of course, I did realize he couldn’t preface every sentence with, “As a generalization that obviously does’t account for all specific details, ...” All in all, it was quite a good, convincing book that felt comfortingly more bound to science than some others I’ve read.
As the number of notes I took goes, this book is a winner; in addition to all its original content, it has the best summaries I've encountered of many complex ideas/theories.
He is remarkably devastating against standart social sciences and postmodernist thinking.
The book may get a little monotone in the technical chapters, but it's a must-read for anyone interested in psychology, evolution, nature-nurture debates, or mundane questions like "Why do men and women want different things?".
(No, the differences are not "socially constructed".)I just wish he was more open to the meme theory; then he could be perfect.
It's been years since I've read this, so I don't reliably remember all the arguments in Pinker's book. I remember finding it very interesting at the time, but since then, I've become a lot more skeptical about evolutionary psychology.I'm not actually sure that I read the whole thing, considering I can't remember much of it...
Language provides a window into the history of society, but this book also helps show how it has both formed and is a part of our consciousness and our own experience. I think a huge range of people would enjoy this book for many many reasons. Perhaps the only genre that would struggle with it would be possibly the very religious. Otherwise pick it up and have a read you are going to love it!
Excellent! Had to stick with it but was really rewarding. Pinker is one of the brightest science writers, on par with Dawkins. I hope to read more books on evolutionary psychology, but for now this the clear leader on that subject.
in gradualism (Richard Dawkins and others), any phenotype must have an Adaptive value (here the definition of "adaptation" is very strict, it means reproductive advantage only) i.e. a trait that increases the chance for more living offspring evolves slowly through selection pressure.
on the other hand, proponent of punctuated equilibrium (Steven J Gould and other) don’t accept the idea of “adaptation”, rather they theorized something called“Exaptation”, which says that a trait may arise through natural selection for one purpose but later organism may find another way to use it which doesn’t give any survival value (i.e. doesn’t provide reproductive advantage).
This was a good book overall, but it did not live up to my expectations, especially in the last few sections, which I felt were more like filler material; which is not to say that they were of little interest in and of themselves.
I understand his need to make an argumentation in favor of evolutionary psychology, considering the current political climate and the constant denial of the existence of "human nature" on the extreme left, but I think it simply did not belong in this book.Apart from the section where the author detailed the human sense of vision, and how the brain processes visual information to build a 3D image of the environment (with all kinds of tricks and assumptions to solve problems that are technically unsolvable), in addition to the introduction of the Computational Theory of Mind, there was little talk of "how the mind works" actually.
