https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30561.Ape_and_Essence
"There are times, and this is one of them, when the world seems purposefully beautiful, when it is as though some mind in things had suddenly chosen to make manifest, for all who choose to see, the supernatural reality that underlies all appearances." I was reading Ape and Essence in a sunlit park when I was struck by this line. It emitted a beacon of light that folded back on itself and enveloped these words, this book, my hands, my legs, the ground under my feet, the park, the city, its surro
Ape and Essence made me discover that Huxley belongs up there with the other wizards of writing.The fact that the strongest point of this book is its prose doesn't help me in reviewing it very effectively.
I could present you with some more quotes, a selection of flowers grown and cultivated in this bright author's garden patch of a book, but they'd whither in my clumsy hands, out in this cold review.So what else can I do to convince you to read this, aside from maladroitly trying to describe its beauty beyond expression?
Though I adored Brave New World, and therefore considered myself familiar with its famous author, I had never even heard of Ape and Essence before stumbling across it on one of the dustier shelves in the local library.
The first, only 25 pages long, is from the point of view of a screen writer who finds a rejected screenplay entitled "Of Ape and Essence" and goes on a journey to meet the author.
The prose is strange and quite beautiful, with a narrator who speaks in poetry, and details that come from the "screenplay" nature of the work.
[All chanting]:Give me Detumescence.Give me Detumescence.Give me Detumescence.In a post-apocalyptic world destroyed by the nefarious nationalistic exploitation of science, Huxley offers up a supremely hilarious post-apocalyptic satire.
But there is also another Fact, to which one cannot react by a mere departmentalized negation or a no less fragmentary display of lust—the Fact of Personality." (87)[A religious chant to control sexual desire]: "Give me Detumescence." (90)[Hierarchy of values, using books from the Los Angeles Public Library as fuel]: "In goes The Phenomenology of Spirit, out comes the corn bread.
Prvih 50-ak stranica bila sam totalno izgubljena u knjizi, radnji i svemu ostalome, a onda... Mračno, ironično, potresno i genijalno, sve ono što Huxley je.
Huxley, back in the 1930's said (in this brilliant novel) that while we technologically advance we will behave more and more like crazed apes..."The Truth Behind De-Evolution".
I'm sure the Mothersbaugh and Casale Brothers read this book more than a few times when they attended Kent State in Ohio.
Huxley switches time span gears like crazy, veering from a Darwinian 1930's Busby Berkeley musical to a cold, bleak sci-fi fable, all taking place in the sleazy Eden that is Hollywood.
Huxley has given us a Jean Harlow worthy glam sci-fi novel; There's never been a book like "Ape and Essence".
I think I've read this book at least 20 times.
Distopija koja je na mene ostavila nešto slabiji utisak od svih prethodnih...A i od Hakslija sam imala prevelika očekivanja nakon što pročitah "Ostrvo" :)
The "screenplay" relates a tale of post-nuclear war society where survivors from New Zealand rediscover what's left of California and find humans there have devolved into...
Ape is a much more ambitious novel than BNW and satirizes in less than 200 pages Hollywood, Southern California, the insanity of the Cold War, science, human nature, a smorgasbord of targets, all deftly skewered with the inimitable Huxley wit.
In character and plot development, Ape is a more mature and compelling novel than the more allegorical BNW, although the latter seems like the more accurate prediction of our future as a species.
Re-reading my precious 1st edition page 51 "Fear also casts out intelligence, casts out goodness, casts out all thought of beauty and truth.
He feels a hand on his sleeve, smells a stinking breath, as the executioner’s assistant leans almost amorously toward him.
And fear, my good friends, fear is the very basis and foundation of modern life.
Fear of the much touted technology which, while it raises out standard of living, increases the probability of our violently dying.
Fear of the Great Men whom we have raised, and by popular acclaim, to a power which they use, inevitably, to murder and enslave us.
Awesome book. Heres some quotes....actually, fuck it, im too lazy to add them. Read the book you lazy ass....its short, so dont worry...Also, usually I agree with the reviews on "goodreads.com" but most of Huxley works are given three stars here??? Duh-fuck is wrong with you all! Dude's a fuckin genius! OK, that's enough elitism for today...
More spacing out on my side, I had to re-read some of this stuff.Later on, New Zealanders go off to explore the world, since they're the only ones who apparently escaped the nuclear war because nobody cared much about them (go, New Zealand!).
They land in America, somewhere next to L.A., and one of the characters, a botanist, is captured by a tribe of genetically mutated people who have extra fingers, toes and pairs of nipples, who have mating seasons, and who are dead-set on worshiping the devil, seeing him as a cause of the world's destruction.I'm making this sound interesting again.
Maymun Ve Öz şeytanın başrolde olduğu bir Aldous Huxley distopyası.
Kitabın büyük kısmında yok edilmekten son anda kurtulan bir senaryoyu okuyoruz.
Kitabın içindeki kitap gibi biraz.
Uzak gelecekte nükleer bir yıkım gerçekleşmiş, dünya eskisi gibi değildir.
Amerika kıtasını keşfe çıkan Yeni Zelandalı bir ekip şeytana tapan bir yerli grubuyla karşılaşır.
Ekipten Dr. Poole'u esir alan yerlileri Poole'ın gözünden inceleme şansı buluruz.
Şeytana tapan bu toplulukta cinsellik büyük ölçüde yasaktır, herhangi bir sakatlığı olan her çocuk arındırılma adı altında katledilmektedir.
Okuması biraz sıkıcı gibi gözükse de geriye dönüp baktığınızda tüylerinizi ürpertecek detaylarla dolu kitap.
Huxley was not really aiming at shocking people for shock's sake, through his work, but to make them aware of the possibilities and consequences of a world where blind faith in science took precedence over values, a nuclear war might have only been inevitable when human ideals were being sacrificed to militarism, and the threat of annihilation only grew worse between 1945 and the year Huxley died (1963).
Recently, however, several other Huxley nonfiction works having been read and appreciated in the meantime and a respected friend having spoken well of the thing, I pulled it out again.Ape and Essence is a story within a story.
The first is of an erudite narrator and his craven Hollywood friend discovering a discarded screenplay, then finding its author recently deceased.
The second is of the play itself, its plot ending in a twist whereby the protagonist encounters the grave of the author 'previously' visited by the original narrator and his friend.
Sex is frowned upon as sinful -- except for five days of the year during a Satanic festival, which is an all-shag-all orgy.
Other times of the year, humans must avoid sex.
In the background of the novel is a song whose refrain is: "Give me, give me, give me give me detumescence."There is also a framing story set in the present day, and the main story is the full text of a rejected script by a screenwriter named William Tallis, who dies shortly after sending his work to the studio.Ape and Essence is not up to the level of Brave New World, but it is, if anything, even more skeptical.
This is th most original, misantropic, terrorific,grotesque postapocaliptic distopia perhaps ever wr
On a scale from The Handmaid's Tale to Rosemary's Baby, this book lands somewhere in the middle, and deserves a place on your shelf next to your dogeared copy of Brave New World.
Then Huxley launches us into the dystopic world of Ape and Essence, with New Zealanders venturing into North America in the year 2108, to look for signs of civilization after a nuclear holocaust blasted that unfortunate hunk of land from sea to shining sea.
(hide spoiler)] Huxley seems to want to leave on a hopeful note, "love conquers all" and that sort of nonsense...
Un romanzo un po’ datato, poiché è stato scritto nel 1948, ma attualissimo per le tematiche, che affronta, e gli spunti di riflessione, che offre.Lo stile di Aldous Huxley in LA RIVALSA DELLE SCIMMIE è coinvolgente.
È ambientato nella Hollywood del 1948, quando Bob Briggs, scrittore e regista, ritrova casualmente il soggetto scartato per un film, dal titolo omonimo a quello del romanzo in questione: "La rivalsa delle scimmie".
Il lettore in LA RIVALSA DELLE SCIMMIE, titolo anche del copione del film, assiste all’evoluzione della comunità attraverso gli occhi di un esploratore che è stato catturato.
It begins in Hollywood, where a couple of people who work for a movie studio find a script called Ape and Essence.
The remainder of the 150 is dedicated to basically printing out this supposedly revolutionary movie script.By an odd coincidence, this is also the time period when Huxley was living in Hollywood and trying to make money as a screenwriter, without much success.
(With the side benefit that I can just cut and paste a lot of my material from a rejected script into the book).I don't know if that's what really happened, but it sure feels that way.
Ape and Essence is a preachy bore and would have, in all likelihood, made a terrible movie.
The action of the 'film' seems to be mostly an excuse to espouse the philosophy that human kind, following the Second World War were increasingly destructive and not in cohesion with the Order of Things (i.e. Nature, God, etc.) and that led to their downfall.
A lot of the points Huxley makes seem particularly true and relevant even now in the late 2000's.
The pop culture references that I didn't really comprehend continued throughout the book, and it's quite possible that I've missed out on a lot of the points that were being made due to my having been born several decades later and not being familiar with those references.
I'm honestly not sure what to feel about this book.
The first thing to note is that it's not nearly as accessible as Brave New World.
It's much less straight forward, more surreal, and sometimes I felt that a thesaurus vomited on a few pages of it.
It's not an easy book to follow, and there were some parts I really didn't understand until I started reading about it online.
Sure.
Absolutely, but the man had something worthwhile to say about our culture, and it would certainly behoove us to listen.A very worthwhile book, overall, though frustrating and oddly put together.

I loved this book!
So many reasons why, but the most obvious reason being the fact that it took place in a post-apocalyptic world where people were supressed and controlled by those in charge.
I cannot even tell you how many times I have read books with the same theme and I am still enthralled every single time.
Huxely puts a good small irony at the ending which makes it worth the quick read.
And the having the story within the story is an excellent difference too.
I can see the similarities between Huxely and Orwell.
Give me detumescence We are all apes -  That's the essence.I don't know if Huxley was on psychedelic drugs while writing this, but I surely felt like being on some while reading it.
Awesome book, I loved every page.Large, colorful vocabulary and descriptors assists in projecting a world post nuclear war and the life and civilization that remains.I was hooked from the first few pages.
Negaliu goodreads'e užkabinti 3.5 stars įvertinimo. Šiai knygai brendau 4 metus. Tuos keturis metus ji ir pradulkėjo nepaliesta mano knygų lentynoje. Nežinau, ar tai sunkiai virškinamo lietuviško vertimo įtaka, bet Hakslis manęs „Beždžione ir esme” nesužavėjo. Distopinis istorijos kontekstas su groteskiškomis detalėmis gal ir verčia skaityti kūrinį iki pat pabaigos, bet neužkabina interpretacijos prasme. Yra ta „paviršutiniška gelmė“ - galima įžiūrėti simbolinį žmonių pragaišties įkūnijimą religijoje, politikoje ir kapitalizmo gniaužtuose, siurrealiai vaizdinga vertybių kaita po milžiniškos katastrofos, žmogiškumo, pažeidžiamumo, meilės ir gyvuliškumo kaip sąvokų vartymas keisčiausiuose kontekstuose... Bet knyga neturi to WOW faktoriaus. Hakslis turi geresnių tricks up his sleeve!
To quote the Narrator (pg 46);"The Sea and its clouds, the mountains glacous-goldenThe valleys full of indigo darkness,The drought of lion-colored plains,The rivers of pebbles and white sand.And in the midst of them the City of the Angels.Half a million houses,Five thoushand miles of streets,Fifteen hundred thousand motor vehicles,And more rubber goods than Akron,More celluloid than the Soviets,More nylons than New Rochelle,More brassieres than Buffalo,More deodorants than Denver,More oranges than anywhere,With Bigger and better girls-The great Metropolis of the West."The passage goes on;"And now we are only five miles up and it becomes increasingly obvious that the great Metropolis is a ghost town, that what was once the world's largest oasis is now its greatest agglomeration of ruins in a wasteland.
“The leech's kiss, the squid's embrace,The prurient ape's defiling touch:And do you like the human race?No, not much.” The above quote comes in the opening pages of Ape and Essence, one of the most viciously cynical works of fiction I've ever read.
In the case of Ape and Essence, Huxley delivers a text that's postmodern in structure: two Hollywood agents in 1948 discover a bizarre screenplay by a reclusive man named Tallis (Huxley's alter ego?).
Moments from the frame narrative return in the screenplay, but only briefly.
Published in 1948, it predates the French novel that became "Planet of the Apes" by 15 years and it could well have been an influence.The framing story, set at the time of the book's publication, involves two men, one a slightly parodic version of a Hollywood film producer (clearly a type Huxley had gotten to know by that time) and a "reasonable man", one often the foil for more exaggerated characters.
Huxley spends a lot of time describing the control of human sexuality by a neutered priest caste (who have switched the object of worship from God to Satan, as the one who clearly actually runs things).
Imagine, if you will, a Rod Serling adaptation of an Aldous Huxley dystopia in which Captain Kirk falls in love/lust with a fetching victim of an oppressive Satanic society in which women are viewed as the "vessels" of all the filth and monstrosities of a post-apocalyptic world.
(view spoiler)[ I will say, while a first reading of Huxley's ending feels positively sunny, I felt discomfort with it born of prior experiences with dystopian tales (film, television, and literature alike).
Most significantly, I saw parallels between Orwell's Winston/Julia/O'Brien dynamic and the Poole/Loola/Director dynamic, which caused me a chill when Poole felt he could depend on the veracity of the Director's claims about other local communities.
Aldous Huxley is somewhat of an acquired literary taste-- I never cared for "Brave new World" as much as many of my compatriots.
"Ape and Essence" has been called Huxley's re-thinking of "Brave New World" in the light of Hiroshima.
The prelude to the actual story is a sardonic scene involving two Hollywood characters who find the passed-over script when it falls off a truck heading for the dump.
The actual meat of the tale is rather depressing (I think he meant it sardonically and satirically but it's SO graphically pessimistic that it comes across as more of a downer) and in terms of pure form it's a bit awkward.
