https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42366.The_Witch_Family
It has many of the same qualities as Winnie the Pooh and The House at Pooh Corner -- young children who live out tremendous adventures in their imagination with characters who are typically treated by the author as though they are also real, though every once in a while perspective shifts and you see the drawings of Old Witch, Little Witch Girl, Lurie (the little mermaid), Weeny Witchy, Malechai (The Spelling Bee -- yes, he is an enchanted bee who spells everything he says) and the others, the same way the illustrations occasionally show you the animals in Winnie the Pooh as stuffed animals.
nothing made sense till the very end i did not like it
Bewitching. Two little girls, almost seven, make up Old Witch and carry her through a year of adventures, of trying to be good. Estes knows children. I think Malachi is my favorite character, though I would have loved to get to know Father, who gave the spelling bee that name.
This book is a fun blend of imagination and fantasy.One day, Amy and her friend Clarissa banish Old Witch to the top of an “awful, high, lonely, bare, bleak, and barren glass hill.” At first, I wasn’t sure if Old Witch was real or just a character in wild stories that Amy’ mom would tell the girls.
When Amy’s mom tells about a particularly bad deed by the Old Witch, Amy and Clarissa started drawing pictures in which they banish Old Witch to the top of a barren glass hill.
I have remembered this book for years in bits and pieces and have never been able to remember what it was called.
Finally, through goodreads, I was able to find out the title and I ordered the book from Amazon!I loved loved loved this book as a child, and skimming through it again, I think it would have been a great one for my daughter when she was younger.
I wish I had found it sooner, but I highly recommend it as a read aloud, or read alone for stronger readers.
I would guess would be of most interest to kids through 2nd grade.
Amy and Clarissa love to tell and draw stories about "Old Witch". But after they "banquish" her (Amy makes up the word) to the Glass Hill, they realize she is lonely. So they send her Little Witch Girl. And when Little Witch Girl decides to fly down to see her human friends on Halloween, Amy and Clarissa suddenly find themselves in BIG trouble!This is a wonderful book that encourages kids to use their imaginations, has just enough spooky scariness to delight them, and yet has a warm happy ending. A great choice for a family read aloud!
I just wish there was more of the old Witches shenanigans on Halloween cause I felt the story was building up to that day she can be bad.
So I was hoping maybe she was gonna spark a little trouble with the girls on that day.
But overall, leading up to that point I loved how descriptive this book was and the writer was definitely spot on with what a 7 year old would be like when they're lost in their imagination.
Great build up just wish the ending was a little more wickedness on behalf of the old witch.
I think for a young girl reading this would be perfect for Halloween!
This book vastly affected my life as a child and gave me a better understanding of who my mother really was.
A sweet children's story with charming illustrations. Although I am sure that I would have liked it as a child, it did not really catch me as an adult without the benefit of any nostalgia.
This book vastly affected my life as a child and gave me a better understanding of who my mother really was.
I picked up my own copy a few years ago, just to see if it was as good as I remembered.Amy and Clarissa, two seven year old girls with lively imaginations, banquish (their combo of "banish" & "vanquish") the Old Witch to a glass mountain, forbidding her to come down or perform any bad magic.
The story alternates between the doings of the Witch Family (eventually, a Baby Witch comes to live with them as well) and Amy & Clarissa.The story was still enjoyable to read as an adult, with some of the little touches (such as Malachi) becoming clearer.
Amy and Clarissa are two ordinary little girls who daydream about an old witch.
Reality and daydream blur though, as both the two girls visit the glass hill, and the witches visit them on Halloween.I wrote in my review of May Bird Among the Stars that tone is one of the hardest things to get right in fiction, but the tone of this is wonderful.
Since the little girls in the story are about six years old, I would think that would be a good starting age, although older children will likely appreciate the youthful capriciousness of Amy's decisions.
Still, they complement the narrative nicely and help depict some of the major scenes in the story.
Overall, I thought it was a fun story with some spooky Halloween scenes.
Although the story makes me think of Halloween, it actually spans quite a large part of the year, including Springtime and Easter, so the story would be appropriate just about anytime in the year.
Amy and Clarissa, two seven-year-old best friends, enjoy hearing tales about Old Witch and her wicked antics.
They also enjoy sitting down and drawing pictures of the Old Witch's naughty hijinks.
To them, the tales they hear about the Witch from Amy's mother, are as real as any events in a history book.
The power of their imaginations, along with the magic of their drawings, brings the world of Old Witch to life.
Anything they draw, including a little girl witch and a baby witch, magically come to life and are added to the magical realm inhabited by Old Witch.
This book kept cropping up on my Audiobooks page and I had never read it so I thought I'd give it a try.
The book was so repetative and I nearly gave up on it, yet this is exactly the type of book a child would delight in.
The bumblebee's monotonous spelling of everything he said was clever but felt overdone after the 20th time he was trying to express himself.
Again, this is probably a delightful read-a-loud book for children and probably deserves a far better rating than I gave it.
I may try it again when I have grandchildren to entertain.
This was an abandoned read-a-loud. We started reading in the early part of October and it took us 2 months to slog through half of it before finally abandoning it. My son says he would like to finish reading it on his own someday but it just was not working as a read-a-loud. Very long and repetitive explanations, not much character and not much plot. Every time I picked it up to read I would hope that something, anything, would happen but it rarely did.
"Go, live on the glass hill forever, and never come back!"Thus did Amy and Clarissa, who loved to draw pictures of witches, banish the wicked Old Witch. Before long there was Little Witch Girl and then Weeny Witch, the baby, on the glass hill as well. Perhaps Old Witch did try to be good, but she never succeeded. And in no time at all, Amy and Clarissa were involved - sometimes dangerously - in her schemes and "hurly-burlies."From the back cover
Rating: 3.5 starsThis is the only story I've read that is based on a child's imaginative play. Not only does one very inventive child (6-year-old Amy) create the members of the witch family, she also imagines their home life, and their behaviors. As the story unfolds, the tale moves smoothly from Amy's world, to the witch world, and sometimes the two worlds overlap.While I think the story is ingenious, I couldn't stay with it very long. It definitely deserves a young audience.
Well, all the best intentions but I didn't get this read in time for Halloween. I enjoyed the first two chapters, but I think I will wait and try this again in the future when I can get to the Halloween-y chapters in time.
This is probably my favourite book from childhood. I've reread it many times over the years.
Cute premise, with the real girls and the imaginary witch family they created; I like that. It's a pretty easy read, but after a while I wasn't very engaged.
Amy and Clarissa are almost-7-year-old best friends living in Washington, DC.
The little witch, Hannah, is fascinated by Amy and Clarissa and worried by her Gammer's mean thoughts.
When Amy finds herself in the witch world, she discovers what havoc she has created!This is a cute story geared towards 6-9 year olds.
I wanted to know if the old witch would keep her promise and what would happen to Hannah.
I liked her better than Amy and Clarissa.
They're just around Amy and Clarissa's age and a bit older so I think they are young enough to fully accept the magic and enjoy the book.
This book manages to sound like a child's inner storytelling monologue--the way they get when they're playing with their animals and dolls and sitting on the floor, and the characters are talking to each other, and AMAZING magical things happen, and some scary things happen, and the parents stay out of sight to not interrupt but want to record it all because it's just so cute and brilliant.
There is an adult mind at work that accurately records the silliness of the children and still respects their brilliance.
As a grownup I loved seeing the affection and understanding the author has for children and their minds.
So I've been meaning to read this book for a long time because it was a favorite of my mom's when she was a little girl. I tried reading it when I was about her age, but I just didn't have the attention span I do today. I gave it 3 because it's just not meant to be read for my age, but if I was younger (like 8-9ish), I would probably give this 4 stars. I love stories about witches and this is a cute story with them :)
sweet story
This was one of my favorite books when I was a child. It's a delightful story about Little Witch and her family living on the Glass Mountain.
A favorite from childhood
A really sweet book.
This book was very strange. I did not enjoy it.
