https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/148821.Brunelleschi_s_Dome
It was a wonderful experience, a great view from up there (the Duomo that is, not the top of my stairs).If you ever visit Italy, do not miss Florence, and take a walk to the top of the dome if you are able.
Tempio MaggioreWell, the beautiful blue dome of this synagogue (also called the Great Synagogue of Florence, or Tempio Maggiore Israelitico), which was built in the second half of the nineteenth century, is just the most notable feature in this photo, which looks to the east of Florence.
Begun in the 1290s, it was consecrated in 1442, a century and a half later.(view spoiler)[ intrepid touristsOur group of six, less the spouse of second-from-right, who did not ascend.
Santa Reparata was then demolished and a new and considerably larger building was commissioned to Arnolfo di Cambio, the architect who had already designed other pleasing churches in the city.
Giotto and Pisano were there and helped; the Black Death walked its scimitar; other architects like Orcagna and Neri di Fioravante followed and considerably modified the original plan.
He also had time to design the Lantern as well, although he did not see its completion since he died soon after it was begun, in 1446.
The cathedral, Santa Maria del Fiore had been under construction for more than a century, but no one knew how to construct the massive dome that was called for in the original design, a design from which the city rulers were loathe to depart.
The task was widely considered impossible, but Filippo Brunelleschi, a goldsmith and clockmaker, submitted a construction plan that was breathtaking in its radicalism.
Ox horns and lumps of sulfur were also burned, because stenches were considered equally effective in clearing the air.
P 121In 1492 [Filippo Maria] captured both Brescia and Genoa, and a year later seized the town of Forli, only 50 miles from Florence.
Before the dome was completed the hoist would raise aloft marble, brick, stone, and mortar weighing an estimated 70 million pounds.
The last act of the dome's construction was the placement of an eight foot high bronze sphere that sits atop the lantern.
From outside, the dome looks perfectly octagonal.
It was actually built "circle by circle." Filippo was a scholar of Dante, so the dome is often compared to Dante's Heaven.
Florence was so famous for homosexuality that the German slang for "sodomite" at that time was Florenzer.
It took over 16 years to complete the dome.
Read this book either on the flight to Italy or on the flight back.
Either way it will greatly enhance the pleasure you experience from visiting Florence.
Ross King's "Brunellschi's Dome" is short, easy to read and filled with delightful anecdotes.
It's prime merit is that it explains everything that the tourist would want to know about the design, construction techniques employed and technological innovations that were made in the building of this architectural wonder.
One is overwhelmed by the beauty of the Duomo when one sees it set against the Tuscan hills in the incomparable city of Florence.
King's book will help you appreciate the remarkable brilliance of the architectwho executed the project.
A quick, 'popular' read about the construction of the Duomo in Florence. Lots of gossip, facts, technical information taken from secondary sources but not well referenced. Still, an ideal preparation for, or companion to, a trip to beautiful Florence.
Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture was a fascinating look at the personal struggles and brilliance of Brunelleschi in his engineering, design and erection of the dome over the beautiful new cathedral Santa Maria del Fiore in the heart of Florence.
And before the dome was complete, the hoist would raise aloft marble, brick, stone and mortar weighing an estimated 70 million pounds."This is an engrossing tale of the struggles, obstacles and brilliance of one man as well as a wonderful look at the history, art and architecture in fifteenth century Florence for all who are still amazed at the awesome beauty and grandeur of the cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore.
When you stand in the Duomo in Florence and look up, even though you know the dome has been there for over 5 centuries, it's still hard to believe it stays in place. It's even harder to imagine how it was constructed - without supporting scaffolding. Read this book and you will understand, not only the construction but also the nature of the Renaissance civilization that encouraged and financed such a miracle.
Great book, fascinating history covering everything that went into the building of this amazing world landmark. Architecture, art history, culture, Italian politics and drama, of course. I learned a lot and was thoroughly enchanted by this book.
Even the original planners of the dome had been unable to advise how their project might be completed: they merely expressed a touching faith that at some point in the future God might provide a solution, and architects with a more advanced knowledge would be found. I was in Florence a couple of weeks ago, and although I hadn't really noted the omission at the time, it's now oddly sad to me that at the Accademia we were told, “This is Michelangelo's Statue of David”, and at the Uffizi we were t
I was in Florence a couple of weeks ago, and although I hadn't really noted the omission at the time, it's now oddly sad to me that at the Accademia we were told, “This is Michelangelo's Statue of David”, and at the Uffizi we were told, “This is Botticelli's Birth of Venus”, but at the cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore we were told, “The original architect of the church died without explaining how to build the dome you see here.
Gee, when I was younger, I thought I wanted to be an architect.
After reading this book, I know I made the right decision.There is A LOT of description of pulleys, machines, construction, etc..
I was determined to persevere and finish slogging through this book.
Of course, the book really is about the dome.
Maybe if I'd ever seen Santa Maria del Fiore in person I might have liked this book more.The best thing I can say about Brunelleschi's Dome is that it has made me want to go to Florence and see what all the fuss in about.
Fascinating account of the construction of the dome of the Cathedral Santa Maria del Fiori in Florence, Italy centering around it's main architect, Filippo Brunelleschi.Brunelleschi was the first man in the renaissance to re-invent the major dome like structures that covered many ancient Roman edifices, such as the Pantheon in Rome.
This information was lost over the 1500 years since the Roman Empire but Brunelleschi figured out how to use physics and engineering to create a massive dome structure that could support itself and not come crashing down.Not only do we learn on a layman's level how Brunelleschi accomplished this, we learn about the man himself, his rivals, such as Lorenzo Ghiberti of "Doors of Paradise" fame and others.
King writes, "even the original planners of the dome had been unable to advise how their project might be completed: they merely expressed a touching father that at some point in the future God might provide a solution, and architects with a more advanced knowledge would be found." The core problem Brunelleschi faced was the sheer scope of what the leaders of Florence were asking for.
Specifically, King writes, "An architect must design a structure that will counteract (push and pull) pressures...a game of action and reaction-- and channeling them safely to the ground." This had been traditionally handled through the use of flying buttresses, which can be seen throughout gothic architecture in Europe, but the Florentine leaders had previously accepted a design with no external buttresses.
'10-- Brunelleschi’s Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture, by Ross King, was scholarly, yet had a lighter touch than most art history dissertations.
The scope King gives us, although at times heavily laden with civil engineering and mechanical descriptions difficult for a lay person to understand, this book vividly brings mid 15th Century Florentine life alive.
21st century readers can appreciate personality conflicts, financial concerns and the herculean effort made by the people of those times.
Though not handsome or well loved, Brunelleschi became more famous in death than life, and in this book he is given the credit he is most certainly due.
This one's going back to the library unfinished.
I'd heard so often that it was good.
Though my MFA is in Painting, I did teach a year long Art History survey course, so I've even lectured on the darn dome.
And I've always been interested in architecture.But I am 75 years old and I don't have time to waste on books I'm not enjoying.
This one is so poorly written I can't believe it got the good reviews it did.The writing is plodding and awkward.
The author introduces technical/architectural terms without defining them and there is no glossary.
I found the first half of the book much more interesting than the second half: the innovation in the architecture of the dome held much more narrative interest in than the chapters on the various machines invented in order to construct the thing. Although it has been several years since I read the book, I do also recall being vaguely disappointed with the ending: The Dome Goes Up! Still, an incredibly interesting portrait of the convergence of many sciences in this beautiful masterpiece.
This was a fascinating book about the dome of Santa Maria del Fiore in Florence.
It talks about Filippo Brunelleschi, and his absolute genius in constructing a dome that spans 140 feet, without any sort of supporting framework.
It is amazing to me that a good portion of the duomo had been built before there was even a call for plans to construct the dome.
Still more amazing that Brunelleschi's ambitious model was selected, though he didn't know exactly how he would execute it.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
King has written other books on various topics of art history.
Provision came in the form of bad-tempered genius Filippo Brunelleschi, master goldsmith, whose years spent treasure-hunting the ruins of Ancient Rome equipped him with the ideas and inspiration which would ultimately not only pull of an amazing feat of engineering, but also do it without the wooden structure that normally provided 'centring' while domes were being erected.
You'd almost say folly, but the end result has endured in its beauty and splendour and made important contributions to the world of art and science, and stands testimony to what humanity can achieve with time, genius, money and an army of workers.
The dome endures, but alas, the sonnets are lost.
Cool little book. Not exactly crucial to anything, but it gives some nice flavor of life in the early Renaissance, and of the return of architecture - and at 167 pages, it's only an afternoon's commitment anyway. David Macaulay's Cathedral would be an excellent companion read, and I found it useful to refer to this big-ass picture of the dome from time to time.
A light but compelling account of the design and construction of the Duomo di Firenze. There are many more detailed (and perhaps more reliable) writings on Brunelleschi and the dome (Saalman, Hartt, etc.) but none are more inspiring.
Okay but this was actually really good???
It wasn’t a too descriptive and mathematical explanation on how this dome was constructed.
There was a story in it and a variety of other small narratives that contributed to the construction as a whole.
We got technical and we got terms and we got dates but we also got character studies of the people involved, cause and effects, and some humorous anecdotes on the side.
I was surprisingly not bored by this considering I had to read it for a critical review in my Italian Renaissance class.
Surprisingly enough, if I want to get an even better grasp of the dome, I wouldn’t mind reading it again.
It was a remarkable feat of engineering, having the largest span ever constructed of bricks and mortar, spanning more than 140 feet, exceeding St. Pauls in London and St. Peters in Rome.The judges of the competition were naturally reluctant to take Brunelleschi at his word without a demonstration of how he could build the structure without centering, and there is an apocryphal story that he told them they should award the project to whomever could get an egg to stand on its end.
He immediately returned to Florence after 10 years of self-imposed exile to begin working on the most famous building of the era.The book begins with the announcement of a competition call to all those interested in building the cathedral as per Neri’s model of the dome.
The work was to begin on ‘the more beautiful and honourable temple than any in any other party of Tuscany’.Brunelleschi presented his model but did not give away the secret of how he was going to build it, asking the opera to ‘trust’ him with it.
He also explicitly mentioned that the structure is going to be revealed as the work progressed.
The book centers on the construction of the "Duomo" - Santa Maria del Fiore and its engineering genius Filippo Brunelleschi.
The architectural challenges and solutions, the politics and the competition surrounding the construction of this marvel makes for a good read.
"Pippo" Brunelleschi not only changed construction engineering forever, he also built innovative construction machines to lift materials in ways never done before - fundamentally changing the possibilities of construction.
In addition to learning about dome building, (which I really hadn't considered the difficulties of previously,) the first several chapters continued to enlighten me on what it was like to live in the 14th and 15th centuries.
was able to use engineering methods that were discovered by the Greeks, to develop building plans for the dome of Santa Maria del Fiore.
Some of these ancient Greek documents, detailing mathematical and engineering marvels, have only recently been discovered.
This is the story of the building of the dome on Santa Maria del Fiore in Florence, Italy over a period of 28 years by Filippo Brunelleschi.
In August, 1418 a competition was held to determine who would design and construct the dome on the cathedral which had been under construction for over a century.
The dome was considered by many to be impossible because it would span 143 feet.
It is still the largest dome in the world.
The winner of that competition was the goldsmith and clockmaker, Filippo Brunelleschi.
It's true that when you get past all the technical details, there is a story behind it.
I can appreciate the genius of Brunelleschi through his engineering, architecture, foresight, etc.
They were right when they wrote on his tombstone: "Here lies the body of the great ingenius man Filippo Brunelleschi of Florence" Although I think of it as sad that they only refer to his ability to construct machinery and don't mention his architectural feats.
In all, I enjoyed reading the book.
Comparing it to other books, it could be a bit dry at times, but overall, I think it was worth the read.
At first I found it seriously boring, but when I gave myself to read through the technical parts without worrying about understanding it all, I began to enjoy it more.
The Dome was an incredible and extremely interesting project to read about, and Bruneslleschi was clearly a genius.
King alluded to some kind of crisis and the downfall of our hero, but they all turned out to be minor setbacks in his career than actual downfalls.
But overall, because of the fascinating subject matter, I found it a worthwhile read and would recommend it to people who are interested in mechanical engineering, architecture, or life during 15th Century Italy.

I picked this up at a used bookstore. It is a historical account of the planning and execution of the dome in Florence. Lots of engineering details. I plan to climb to the top of that dome this summer and I will be able to see the innovative engineering skills of Brunelleschi from the inside stair well. Can't wait. Best of all this book is a good companion to the novel "Pillars of the Earth" since it has lots of references to building cathedrals. I plan to read Ross King's book about St. Peter's dome before the summer!
