https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227443.Bridget_Jones_s_Diary
I 100% understand why people like it - it's funny and relatable and reminiscent of the great decade that was the 90's, but because of a purely personal problem, this book made me feel like garbage and therefore made me absolutely loathe my reading experience.
Friends, family and other characters also call her fat throughout the novel and then I look at me, who weighs over 15 kilos more than Bridget, and it honestly made me feel like crap.
I have already been struggling with confidence and self-loathing because over the past couple of years I've put on 25 kilos due to changing medications for my mental health, so this book honestly just made it worse.
I even flipped open a *Shopaholic* book, which wasn't as awfully written as *Bergdorf Blondes* but did similarly make yearn for a grim Stalinist dystopia where this kind of trash just isn't permitted.Then there was Bridget Jones.Now, my enjoyment of this book was not uncomplicated by this terrifying "I-am-Cathy" feeling that I'm now enough of a grownup to identify with a lovably neurotic character from fluffy popular women's fiction.
I'm not really crazy, I'm just procrastinating.) (Also, though, I do want to tell you guys about Bridget Jones and how weirdly good it was.)There were a few things I didn't realize about BJ before I read this book.
Reading goal for 2011: 35 books (not bad)Books actually read: 38(v.g.) No. of chick-lits supposed to be read in a year: 1 (fair)No. of chick-lits actually read: 2 (including  Bridget Jones's Diary ) But wait a second!
Who can call   Bridget Jones's Diary   a chick-lit?
No, Bridget is no wannabe chick-lit heroine and this book is certainly no trashy best-seller!
Bridget Jones's Diary   is definitely a piece of literature!
Yes, I know I can't stop gushing over it but trust me, had this book been anything like the usual chick-lits, I most certainly wouldn't have given it a five-star rating!
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.Let me introduce you to the Béchamel Test.
Don't bother leaving the bookshop; ask them to help.And go and spend your money on some actual Béchamel Sauce.P.S. Also failed the Bechdel Test and the one that uses a needle on a metre to determine whether a noise was heard after a joke was made.P.P.S.
(no noise was heard).P.P.P.S. Read as part of the Infinite Variety Reading Challenge based on the BBC's Big Read poll of 2003.P.P.P.P.S. Just watch the film.Blog | Reviews | Instagram | Twitter
On the one hand, Fielding nails the humor.
Fielding nails her too.
I just don't relate to this definition of what women are.
I didn't really get why Bridget liked him other than he was there.
But what else than a shallow love interest did I expect from Bridget?
I liked the way Renee Zellweger played Bridget so much more than the way this is written.
One of these days I'd like to read chick lit with a protagonist I can relate to, but then again, would it really be light and chick-lit-ish?
Will work hard on journal paper during day, then go for well-earned picnic at open-air movie theatre.
Make salmon florentine for picnic, will eat half there and save rest for tomorrow.
Decide to postpone working on paper until tomorrow, have to tidy apartment since guests coming for picnic and place looks like tip.
Guests arrive, walk down to water and find good spot to pitch camp.
While waiting for movie to start, eat all salmon florentine followed by large serve of chocolate mousse and most of two bottles of wine.
Halfway through movie, stretch out hand to grope girlfriend and spill remaining wine over brand-new picnic rug (v.
Of course the book is all about Bridget's feelings and emotions..............it's a diary!!
I think anyone, man or woman, would quietly admit to themselves the selfish thoughts they have when something terrible happens to someone they know, Bridget is just doing that in her diary.
The book provides an excellent outlet for anyone woman who feels the pressures of impending singledom, rubbish careers and crazy parents and it makes the reader see that IT'S OK NOT TO BE PERFECT!
We love Bridget 'cos she is fun, honest and finds true love even though she is (shock!
This certainly wasn't a novel but, what's worse, it wasn't even a credible diary.
Who records their mishaps while cooking and running late in their preparations?
Perhaps if this were written in the phone-texting age, I could imagine someone constantly chronicling their every move, no matter how pressing the situation or how inane and empty the commentary, but as it is, this book serves as a frightening precursor to a new generation of books with no established atmosphere, characters, dialogue, or insight.
Fielding would be better off looking into a crystal ball and telling people their fortunes than writing another non-novel.
. “meh.” In an effort to combat that, I do things like going balls out on Christmas decorating well before Thanksgiving, making giant Sunday dinners with all the fixins as soon as the leaves start to change in case I turn into a “please just go get Taco Bell” kind of Mom between Thanksgiving and the New Year and tipping the scales heavier than usual when it comes reading/watching things of the feel good rather than the stabby variety.
I sat in the doctor's office waiting room literally snorting into my Nine West handbag (there's something really metal about being a minimum wage worker who chooses to buy labels instead of food) as I cradled my Kobo in my lap, with Bridget Jones and her life of ridiculous shenanigans all over the black and white screen.
They are probably not the first to wonder why someone like me would carry anything as elegant as Nine West.Sometimes I wonder that, too.
It's modern Britain, like nobody wants to see it.Sure, it's a little ham-fisted in places.
I picked this book up expecting to be entertained.

Watched and loved the movie first, and that's what's stuck unfortunately.
Of course it would’ve been a different experience if I’d read it first, and I can totally see why the movie focused on Daniel the cad..
This is a fun book, a romp really, and all the more fun with the self deprecation that is Bridget.
Nothing.” Love her."Where in the name of arse where you last night?” I said.
Love it.Where else can we read gold pieces like this?
I'd eat blue soup all day, if I could sit down with Bridget and Mark.
She is my spirit animal.Bridget Jones has always been one of my favourite movies and so I put off reading the book for a long time because I figured it would be more or less the same but it's actually totally wonderful in its own way.
She guzzles wine, smokes countless cigarettes, and gorges on food like it's the last time she'll ever get to eat, and then wails endlessly about her weight; she moans about her dead-end job (in publishing, which I always thought would be so glamorous) without ever trying to get ahead; and she mopes about her social life and single status while remaining surrounded by her completely vapid (though all individually endearing) friends, and dating the absolute worst kind of men.
It is heart-warming and laugh-out-loud funny and a complete narrative of my early twenties.
Unpopular opinion time: I just can't make myself like Bridget Jones. I wasn't huge on the movie, but hoped maybe the book would be a bit better. Nope. Bridget is way too crass & shallow and her diary is mostly self-loathing thoughts. WHY do I want to put myself through this???The only reason I gave it an extra star is because it's so British AND I can't bring myself to give any Pride & Prejudice retelling 1 star. I'm glad so many people love these books & movies, but I'm just not a fan.

¿Qué es lo que pasa cuando la sociedad te dice que para ser una mujer moderna tienes que ser sofisticada y tener éxito en la vida profesional?
¿Qué pasa cuando también te dice que como mujer si no te casas y tienes hijos a los 30 eres una fracasada?
PUES QUE TE VUELVEN LOCA.
Ahí tenéis a Bridget, saltándose las dietas, bebiendo y fumando como una cosaca, eligiendo a los hombres equivocados y a pesar de todo, intentando encajar en el molde que le da la sociedad.
Las risas están aseguradas.
Si es que no se puede Bridget, NO SE PUEDE.
The book presents itself in the form of a diary that doesn't feel like an intimate portrayal of life at all, it lists a series of stuff that happens to Bridget in the driest way possible.
Sometimes her friend Sharon would come up with actual good points that could have started interesting conversations (like the unwillingness of most women to stop compromising their careers for the sake of men who don't share the same emotional investment as their partners) but mainly Bridget fat-shames her colleagues, she calls a woman a "worthless trollop" because she's wearing a suit better than she did and is possibly her friend's husband's lover.
If I ever came across a 'Bridget' in real life then I would be deeply concerned for the human race as all the book is concerned about is appearance, getting a man, swearing and sex.Completely devoid of humanity substance and totally misses the point about the troubles of dealing with the difficulties faced by real modern women in everyday life.
This was SUCH a FUN book to read. I read it in December - when family/holiday shit and self worth is really taking a beating. So to pick up this book and read about her holiday get togethers and her weight and smoking issues and family issues - and how she can make an ass out of herself in such a grand grand manner....well - it was just what I needed. To be able to sympathise and laugh at the same time? Priceless!
Bridget Jones's Diary.What's with this book that everyone is reading it, I find it corny, boring and I can't relate a thing, and my friend said because I'm a guy not a girl like Bridget.
So I asked her that not all girls are like Bridget and she tweeted me, "My weight (and body) = frustrations in life".
Never mind.So Bridget Jones's Diary is like a normal diary of a frustrated girl who wanted to change and keep her New Year's resolution intact on the first page of her diary.
I usually end up liking the books better than their film counterparts, but it worked the other way around for Bridget Jones's Diary for me.While I loved the movie, this book was just a bit blah.
Bridget irritated me with her whining and her desperation for a man.
The diary format of the writing annoyed me, but that might just be because I prefer books that are descriptive and have wonderful narrative.
Daniel Cleaver also came off as a one-dimensional, total bastard type instead of like the irresistible, though still a bastard, charmer that Hugh Grant portrayed him to be in the movie version.
Might be more of a 3.5 stars? I read this because I am COMPLETELY OBSESSED with the movies and decided I should probably read the book if I want to be a ~tRuE fAn~ and this was very cute! Bridget's voice was hiiiiiilarious and the boys were mega dreamy. However, I did find myself to be a bit underwhelmed by this just because I kept comparing it to the movie. So maybe read this before seeing the movie if you can help it. Other than that though mega cute!
I think it goes without saying that this is a very funny and witty book, and the main character Bridget Jones is one of the most relatable characters I've read about.
It was fantastic and actually made me feel quite good about myself, because apparently I'm not the only one with those kind of insecurities.
This is a book that will make you feel good - especially if you are of the female species, even though I'm pretty sure males would find it very entertaining and educating as well :-)
Brought it by just looking at the word Diary !!Saw it on BBC's 100 books list and blessed the day I bought it.Got to read it at the last day of the year and had resolutions of keeping a diary at last. What can be said more !!
A delight every time I read it 😊
‘Helen Fielding is one of the funniest writers in Britain,’ says Nick Hornby on the front cover, ‘and Bridget Jones is a creation of comic genius.’ What in earth…?
Surely, if a book is genuinely funny, then people will laugh irrespective of their gender.
Otherwise no one will read your book.So, I suppose the next question has to be: how could I believe so passionately that what I’m saying is true and yet at the same time be so wildly and obviously wrong?Bridget Jones's Diary has apparently sold millions and millions and millions of copies worldwide.
Through it all, Bridget will have you helpless with laughter, and — like millions of readers the world round — you'll find yourself shouting, "Bridget Jones is me!MY THOUGHTS: I started out thinking that this book was fun.
She worked for many years in London as a newspaper and TV journalist, travelling as wildly and as often as possibly to Africa, India and Central America.
We do whinge, worry about the size of our arses, have to put up with naf jumpers for Christmas, occasionaly about having no friends and found alone eaten by alsations or similar, have obsessions about random people we probably shouldnt and wonder if we will get to shag them, suffer for being a singleton when we secretly rather enjoy it, plan diets that we never quite stick too and sometimes record the banal details.
I even have a friend whos more than likely downed several solitary bottles of red and mouthed the words to 'all by myself' before collapsing in stupor.
I wanted to simply read and laugh a little and enjoy a lot.
Mooning over a guy and obsessing to the point where you get no work done at work, friends who protect and love you and sometimes lie to you.I thought it probably was a pretty honest assessment of single people in the 1990's.
This book made me laugh, kept me turning the pages (on my beautiful new SONY E BOOK and kept me interested in Bridget and her group of friends.
Very telling because this is not necessarily my favorite genre.Oh yes, it also made me interested in reading other books by English authors.
I have mixed feelings on this one. It's a fun read, but the writing style was at times a little frustrating and the plot at times a little too silly!
