https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186369.The_Pastures_of_Heaven
The consequences of unrequited love, the constant struggle between fate and chance that leaves track through generations, the shameful secrets people try to conceal with whitewashed camaraderie to convey an appearance of dignity or control… these are the kind of issues that give and take from the characters in Steinbeck’s portrait of rural life in California at the beginning of the twentieth century.Even though the stories stand on their own and can be tackled independently, they build on each other if read in succession.
He spoke with such vehemence that a mild interest was aroused in the dull brain of the girl.“Don’t you ever let me catch you talking to that Jimmie Munroe,” he told her.“Who’s Jimmie Munroe, Papa?”“Never you mind who he is.
On the day of their seizure, he dangled his feet in the stream, because he didn’t know they were ill, but thereafter he wandered vaguely from one to the other of the dying children, and talked nonsense to them.
One life went out while he read aloud the second chapter of Treasure Island, and he didn’t even know it had happened until he finished the chapter and looked up.
Think more along the lines of the heavenly pastures of wrath and tribulation where ploughshares are beaten into swords.Dr. Phillips conferring with the mother of a mentally disturbed girl: “You love the hair shirt,” he growled.
“Your pain is a pleasure.
You won’t give up any little shred of tragedy.” He became furious…"I think I’m a mild man, but right now I want to beat your face with my fists.” How’s that for professional consultation?
This novel consists of ten tales set in a thinly veiled version of Corral de Tierra, a valley in the hills twelve miles from Monterey, which Steinbeck names "Las Pasturas del Cielo." It's a pencil sketchbook, a minor work from Steinbeck, which means it would rate it a masterpiece by most anyone else.The Pastures of Heaven is a beguiling collection similar in structure to Tortilla Flat or Cannery Row. If any character can claim to be the main one, it's Bert Munroe, a failed businessman who purchases the old Battle farm, a vacant property regarded as cursed by the people of the valley.
Having only made his acquaintance relatively recently after a visit to Monterey prompted me to read Cannery Row, I've fallen in love with his clean prose and striking use of imagery, his powerful evocation of place, his ability to turn ordinary people into memorable characters and the deep humanity which is at the heart of his writing.
Unlike Cannery Row, with which this work shares some similarities in terms of its structure, this is one of Steinbeck's sad books.
It's not without humour, but it lacks the buoyant mood of the later work and the easy affection Steinbeck shows for its characters.
"Life is so unreal. I think that we seriously doubt that we exist and go about trying to prove that we do." John Steinbeck is one of my favorite writers and yet I occasionally struggle to put into words what it is that makes him so unique. It might be his language, the lengthy and vivid descriptions of Californian landscapes or the characters, always hard working and good-willed, yet often victims of destiny. The Pastures of Heaven was only his second novel, and it already has all the features
It might be his language, the lengthy and vivid descriptions of Californian landscapes or the characters, always hard working and good-willed, yet often victims of destiny.
The stories can be seen as stand-alone tales, but they simultaneously blend together beautifully, with protagonists from one making reappearances in others, creating a real sense of community within the valley called Las Pasturas del Cielo.
For none of Steinbeck's characters, live is particularly easy.
None of Steinbeck's characters are particularly lucky either and yet he manages to create a story arc that isn't depressing in nature, but a gentle and confident reminder that a community is defined by the people that it is made up of.
More stories of the people of the Salinas valley area in the early 1900s from the leading expert on the subject, John Steinbeck.
These tales of woe and triumph study the fictional lives of the criminally insane to the rich and locally famous.
The Pastures of Heaven presents character sketches in the vein of Sherwood Anderson and Gabriel García Márquez, though more salaciously than Anderson and without so much art as Márquez.
The book is really a collection of very loosely entwined short stories with no overarching plot.
Mostly it is the gorgeously described land of Steinbeck's central California world that brings the whole thing together.
Steinbeck sempre una garanzia. Immenso conoscitore dell'animo umano, acuto compositore della sinfonia più silente, della sofferenza più cocente, della resilienza più sorprendente.
القصص مكتوبة وكأنها فيلما سينمائيا تشاهده بعينك وتساير أبطاله كأنك تراهم ولعلك تكتشف أن الفردوس ليس فردوسا حقيقيا وأن هناك من يريد أن يغادره بقليل من الجهد وبمعرفة خلفية مؤلف الرواية والذي يعد من كتاب أمريكا المعارضين والذي تناول عدد من رواياته موضوع الكساد الكبير والصعود المفاجئ لطبقات معينة وانهيار أحلام البعض، قد تتوصل إلى أن مراعي الفردوس هي النموذج الأصغر لأمريكا أو أرض الأحلام التي قد تحيل أحلام البعض لكوابيس، وأن قاطنيها هم المهاجرين الذين توافدوا عليها بحثا عن الكثير فلم تجد هي إلا بالقليل وبشروط ...
شعرت بعد القراءة بأنني أدين لها باعتذار لن يصلها وتمنيت لو أنني أقرأ المزيد من الروايات بترجمتها ولو أنها تكتب قصصا خاصة بها :)هل أحتاج إلى القول بأن هذا العمل هو من أعظم الترشيحات التي تلقيتها في حياتي؟؟ :)
Al cospetto di tanta bellezza il caporale si sentì commosso..."Madre di Dio!" mormorò.
نعيش هذا كله، حتى تأتي النهاية الرائعة، حينما نصحب جون هوايتسايد الذي يغادر هو زوجته الوادي بعدما احترق منزلهم الضخم، الذي شيده والده بحلم أنه يملأه بالأطفال وأن تعيش فيه ذريته لقرون قادمة، ولكن ها هو المنزل وقد صار رمادا ً وابنه الوحيد الذي لم يستطع إنجاب غيره، ها هو يغادر الوادي في حافلة، تقل أناسا ً من خارج الوادي، تمضي الحافلة حتى تشرف على الوادي من أعلى، فتتوقف ليتأمل الركاب المشهد المبهر، ذات المشهد الذي فتن الجندي الأسباني قبل أكثر من قرن، يفكر كاهن مسحورا ً بالمكان "قد تكون هناك كنيسة صغيرة هنا حيث لا فقر ولا روائح كريهة، ولا اضطرابات، وقد تعترف رعيتي بخطايا بسيطة يكفي للتحلل منها ترديد صلاة (السلام عليك ِ يا مريم) مرات قليلة، إنه مكان يعمه الهدوء ولن يكون مسرحا ً للقاذورات وأعمال العنف التي تؤلمني وتدفعني إلى الشك أو الخجل، سيحبني سكان هذه البيوت وسينادونني: يا أبت ِ"، حتى السائق يقول للركاب وهو ينطلق بعيدا ً "قد تتصورون ما أقوله سخيفا ً، ولكني أحب أن انظر أسفل الوادي وأفكر كم تكون الحياة هادئة ومريحة بالنسبة لمن يقدر على العيش في مكان صغير كهذا".
مراعي الفردوسهي أول تجاربي مع جون شتاينبكهي أقرب للمتوالية القصصية منها إلى روايةهي مجموعة قصص لأبطا
Around this time, a young journalist named Elizabeth Ingels developed an idea of interconnected stories similar to Anderson's work, but based in California.
Sometimes these subtle elements of magic worked for the author, other times they didn't; largely, they're either missed or ignored.The Pastures of Heaven holds some of this early Steinbeck magic.
The author didn't spend as much time with the setting as he did in later works, but his signature style of laying out the scenery and breathing life into it is intact.But where The Pastures of Heaven succeeds most is in its characters.
I would argue that, amongst Steinbeck's earliest works, this is one of his most character-centric books.
He’s so taken by what he sees that he christens the valley “Las Pasturas del Cielo” or "The Pastures of Heaven."From the limited geographic descriptions provided it appears that the valley is where Corral de Tierra is located: in between Salinas and Monterey but shy of the Carmel Valley.The Pastures of Heaven are twelve short stories that share characters and settings.
I think it’s because not only is the theme timeless but the characters are all too real.Unlike The Long Valley there aren’t any real standouts but as a complete work The Pastures of Heaven can stand on its own and should be read in its entirety.
With howls and shrieks they did their best to kill each other by disembowelment and decapitation." - chapter VI."Most lives extend in a curve.
John Whiteside lived in a straight line." - chapter XI."They climbed stiffly from their seats and stood on the ridge peak and looked down into the Pastures of Heaven.
This collection of interconnected short stories revolving about the residents of an idyllic Californian farmland covers a lot of literary ground.
One can have lengthy conversations about the symbolical meaning of the Pastures, as its residents come and go looking for new beginnings, or running away from their past.
مراعي الفردوس رغم جمالها الذي تشعر به لدقة وصف المؤلف إلا انها مخيفة فالخيبات التي تتعرف عليها خلف ابواب بيوتها تصيب المرء ببعض القلق بخصوص المستقبل ومدى الموفقية التي سنحظى بها نحن في خططنا للايام القادمة قرائة هادئة شتاينبك رغم قسوته لكن انامله رقيقة يستطيع كتابة افظع المواقف بأبسط الصور الممكنة ويترك الباقي لفهم القارئ نفسه .
romanzo corale su una splendida valle californiana e i suoi abitanti che, come per uno strano contrappasso, sembrano segnati da sfortune, fallimenti, perdite e spesso sono costretti a fughe improvvise. i capitoli/racconto si intrecciano e si sfiorano- creando un affresco quasi magico su cui domina (più che le piccole vite degli uomini, con tutte le magagne) la bellezza incantata del luogo. adoro steinbeck.
Although this book isn't nearly as popular as Steinbeck's classics, it does possess the same great literary voice that made the author so popular. I loved the weaving of inter-related short stories and all the odd characters that appeared throughout. This book is further proof that just about anything Steinbeck wrote is worth reading.
Grazie a questo romanzo ho scoperto Steinbeck. Ed è stato un avvenimento molto importante nella mia vita.
Той рисува неказаното, непомисленото, всичко онова отвъд Рая, което единствено можем да доловим с красивите словосъчетания и приятното душевно гъделичкане на неговите творби.„Небесните пасбища“ е типичната картина на човешкия жанр на Стайнбек.
Лични разкази за едно място и за неговите жители и техните малки тайни трагедии и триумфи в Las pasturas del cielo.Дебелата едва 192 странички книжка събира красиво нарисувани картини, които не те обвързват силно с героите на повествованието, но непременно те карат да им съпреживяваш.
Сред тях са лудите, мързеливите, уважаваните, работиливите, сприхавите, търпеливите, красивите, мрънкащите, потайните…„Небесните пасбища“ са мечтаният Рай, гледан отвисоко, от ръба на хълма, където не се виждат детайлите на обикновения изпълнен с лични трагедии, размишления и случки живот.
Steinbeck is often such a bummer and this was no exception but something about these little sad vignettes was so enjoyable. This is my favorite Steinbeck novel so far. I’d love to reread it sometime and map out the townspeople as I go (especially Burt’s involvement in all the stories).
One of Steinbeck earliest work. Very colorfully drawn characters. Unfortunately due to time constraint I have to skim a lot of it, but it was a great piece of short story.
Esta serie de cuentos interconectados podría ser la obra maestra de cualquier otro escritor, pero dentro del canon de   John STEINBECK  apenas queda como una obra menor. Con recursos muy simples (que no simplistas) el ganador del Nobel describe magistralmente el conflicto entre la naturaleza y la sociedad. Además de la ubicación geográfica ("Las Pasturas del Cielo", un valle de ensueño en el estado de California), la unidad de estas narraciones se establece por la aparición recurrente de Bert MU
Esta serie de cuentos interconectados podría ser la obra maestra de cualquier otro escritor, pero dentro del canon de 
Los que más me gustaron, o me conmovieron, son el IV, dedicado a Franklin GÓMEZ y "Tularecito"; el VI, donde la inocencia de un niño criado en condiciones de mucha libertad se ve arruinada por personas bien intencionadas; y el X, donde se presenta la historia de Pat HUMBERT (si quieren saber más detalles sin leer el libro, les recomiendo la excelente reseña de Joe VALDEZ).En resumen, este libro me parece una introducción excelente a la literatura de 
4.5 stars.I always love reading Steinbeck.This is a short novel about the different inhabitants of a southern Californian rural community called the Pasture of Heaven.My copy of this short book is yellowed from age; it was printed in 1986 and I bought it second hand from some used bookstore a long time ago for $2.99.
It felt befitting to have this very used version in my hands as I read about the dirt and soil and dreams of the land from those who didn't realize what the price of the picturesque community called Corral de Tierra, (Pasture of Heaven) in Monterey, California would cost them.
هذا الكتاب هو أول كتاب قرأته لجون شتاينبك و هو مجموعة قصص تدور فى وادى يسمى مراعى الفردوس والذى أكتش
C'est un bon recit de la vie quotidienne des habitants de village les pâturages du ciel.Le grand écrivain john steinbeck décrit ces familles de fermiers avec passion , tendresse et humour.Des personnages divers ressemble à le paysage magnifique.J'apprécie beaucoup le style de l'écriture.C'est beau, c'est émouvant, c'est drôle chaque famille a le droit a son lot de soucis.CITATIONS SUR LES PÂTURAGES DU CIEil :1 Vous n'êtes qu une création de mon esprit .personne n'a plus d'ordres à me donner .si je ne fais pas ce que je devrais faire , personne ne le saura jamais .je n'irai pas, et je n'irai jamais là dedans.2-Après les indispensables obligations de vivre et de se reproduire, l'homme a, de plus, besoin de laisser quelques archives de lui-même, une preuve, peut-être, qu'il a vraiment existé.
What i mean by that, is that everyone is engagingly simple, "good country people," and their amusement and fear is what makes this story tick.
Hence, the maybe unfair moniker of "morons." The simplicity of such a place is made complex by the human interaction invading the utopian sort of feel of the Pastures.
The embarassment makes him realize he is "poor" and ashamed for himself for letting the boy down, they move away, back to the city, much to the chagrin of the schoolteacher and the children who enjoyed their exceptional way of life.
That time, I wasn't aware of the impact that this author will have on me.No matter what book I read written by him, he changes something in me.
Now, in The Pastures of Heaven, Steinbeck tells ten different stories about people that all live in a small village somewhere between Salinas and Monterey.
It is said not to judge a book by its cover, but the cover and the title (also the author) were the ones that drove me to Pastures of heaven.It's beautiful, it's what everyone needs.
Steinbeck wasn't suited for pirate stories, and The Pastures of Heaven finds my longtime-favorite American novelist in much more comfortable territory, namely California, where most of his finest work was set.I wasn't more than a quarter of the way through the book when I was struck by its similarity to Winesburg, Ohio, maybe because that book is still fresh in my mind.
Pastures, like Winesburg, is a collection of connected stories with a lot of background info and psychological depth.
I've never read any of Steinbeck's short stories, but if they're anything like The Pastures of Heaven, I'm in for a treat.
I read an Arabic Translation to it & didn't enjoy it that much! While each chapter was considered an individual short story. the "Pastures of Heaven" is considered only a background to all those individual stories.. with rare interaction of characters in other chapters..
