https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103180.Against_Our_Will
Torchwood was great in terms of homosexual and bisexual characters/lifestyles, but in terms of women and rape, I have to give the show an “F”.
In Philadelphia, a female judge a few years ago ruled that a prostitute or a woman engaging in prostitution cannot be raped or even gang raped.
Brownmiller’s comments about rape, in particular the view society has of the victims and how it is portrayed in movies are still relvalent.
I have heard people debate whether or not rape victims should still be granted anonymity in the press after the Duke Lacrosse case.
From Wikipedia: The 2012 Delhi gang rape case involved a rape and fatal assault that occurred on 16 December 2012 in Munirka, a neighbourhood in South Delhi, when a 23-year-old female physiotherapy intern,[2] was beaten and gang raped in a private bus in which she was travelling with a male friend. There were six others in the bus, including the driver, all of whom raped the woman and beat her friend. The woman died from her injuries thirteen days later while undergoing emergency treatment in Si
In ancient Babylon, according to the laws of Hammurabi, the punishment for raping a virgin was death and the girl was considered blameless.
Among the Hebrews, in both the cases both parties were killed by stoning if the crime took place within the city walls, with the logic that the girl could have screamed if she wanted to (gags must have not been invented then).
This is a staple of many a Gothic romance, but it is doubtful whether the original events were very romantic.So throughout history until relatively recently, woman has been viewed as a mere commodity - which has justified the unlawful possession of her body.---------------------------------------From the "handbook" ISIS have reportedly published on the treatment of "female slaves":
It's a very white, middle to upper class look at rape, seeing it as a male-female inequality without a big look into bigger institutional issues.
I also dislike Brownmiller's thoughts that the criminal justice problem will solve rape if only rapists would be arrested and sent to jail for their crimes.
Maybe people didn't realize that in the 1970s, but these days I wouldn't excuse an author for taking that stand.Finally, I dislike how Brownmiller almost completely ignored rape outside of the realm of male rapists violating women.
Taking into account the book was published in 1975, Susan Brownmiller's Against Our Will: Men, Women, and Rape remains one of those books any serious feminist or pro-feminist has to read. It is a book I wish every man would read. Brownmiller's journalistic background and systematic historic overview of rape's place in male-dominant cultures make her work earth-shaking. The majority of men do not understand feminism even today; this book's intensity and clarity makes it far easier to understand.
In fact the institutionalized rape that came with slavery gets a chapter all its own (whereas interracial rape does not).
Depending on the physical injury sustained, the use of weapons or gangs of rapists, she advocates for 6 month to 20 year penalties.
She claims all men benefit from rape, and that rapists act as myrmidons for all men.
In fact some men benefit substantially more than others, and some men are hurt by the mass psychology of rape.
Torture in the form of rape, prior to or instead of the kill, reinforces that sense of superiority in the "conquering" rapist and, ideally, reinforces the idea of subhuman-ness in the victim.Other highlights from the book include Brownmiller's discussion of date rapes (a term she coined) and how police view claimants of rape by an acquaintance as "unfounded." But institutions of culture and power serve not only to enable rapists to commit the crime but enable law enforcement to dismiss the crime outright.
The heart of this book is a statement early on (Page 15): "From prehistoric times to the present, I believe, rape has played a critical function.
It is nothing more or less than a conscious process of intimidation by which all men keep all women in a state of fear.This book traces the thesis from ancient civilization to the present.
She speaks of harsher penalties within the legal system, limiting pornography, and trying to limit prostitution.The most provocative aspect of this book is its claim that rape, in essence, is political, a threat (or actuality) that keeps women "in their place." The evidence for this?
Namely, that rape is an important thread that runs through history: it’s the reason women originally subjugated themselves to men, seeking protection from the constant threat of rape; it’s been used as a powerful weapon in every war; it played an intrinsic role in slavery; it’s penetrated women’s psyches, shaping their behaviour; and, as a result, it’s been sewn into the very fabric of society.Originally published in the 1970s, it would be nice if Against were one of those feminist tomes that now seems quaint and outdated.
Against Our Will is a feminist landmark.It is painstakingly researched, which makes it a great reference work - I first picked it up some years ago when I was writing my law school monograph on sexual violence against women during armed conflicts.
It was only through actually listening to the survivors and learning about the reality of rape that she understood the truth - that rape can happen to all women, and it doesn't matter whether you are rich or poor, a baby or an 80-year-old, ugly or beautiful, covered from head to toe or in a miniskirt, out alone at night or in your own home or even in a walled convent, sober or drunk, etc etc etc.
Clássico da segunda onda feminista, este livro é dolorosamente excelente e ainda tem o mérito de destruir alguns dos meus ídolos (como Hunter Thompson, Stanley Kubrick e Sam Peckinpah) e alguns desafetos (como Freud e a teoria psicanalítica), fazer um apanhado no estupro através da história (guerras, racismo, disputa por território e propriedade capitalista em geral) e destrinchar os meandros da culpabilização da vítima e como eram as coisas até os anos 70. Coisa linda esse livro.
Me being a heterosexual African American man with no prior knowledge (at the time) of feminism, I wanted to learn and understand.
But a drive years later that still resonates me.
A drive for a book that put me through discomfort learning about the history of rape and abuse of women.
The more I read, the more anger and disgust I felt to those who would commit such acts.
It doesn’t have to be this book in particular but I encourage all men to pick up some type of feminist piece of writing, read it, understand it, and retain it.
Thankfully, these arguments serve as an embarrassment to Brownmiller, even when she makes a case for why intersectionality should exist among those who stand with oppressed blacks at the expense of women.
The problem is that the statistical reports from 1973 are not exactly the best indicator for the current, sorry state of rape culture; they give a snapshot of our capabilities to assess criminological data from the 1970s, but is this information worth the effort of reading Against Our Will, or just reading *about* it?
All acts of sex forced on unwilling victims deserve to be treated in concept as equally grave offenses in the eyes of the law, for the avenue of penetration is less significant than the intent to degrade. Similarly , the gravity of the offense ought not to be bound by the victim's gender.The real reason for the law's everlasting confusion as to what constitutes an act of rape and what constitutes an act of mutual intercourse is the underlying cultural assumption that it is the natural masculine
The fact that Brownmiller espouses "The dominate culture can operate within the laws of civility because it has little need to resort to violence to get what it wants," and says the solution to rape culture is the feminization of the prison industrial complex and complete rejection of the words of sex workers show how much life she simply refuses to take into consideration.
I can't come up with a better review than Steven Pinker in The Blank Slate: the modern denial of human nature:"I believe that the rape-is-not-about-sex doctrine will go down in history as an example of extraordinary popular delusions and the madness of crowds. It is preposterous on the face of it, does not deserve its sanctity, is contradicted by a mass of evidence, and is getting in the way of the only morally relevant goal surrounding rape, the effort to stamp it out."
I read this in 1980 or thereabouts. I recall the general ideas, if not the particulars. It seems to me that I saw Brownmiller on an episode of the Phil Donahue Show (with Andrea Dworkin?) causing an uproar by saying that the worst thing about the Larry Flynt (Hustler magazine) shooting was that he wasn't dead. I would like to revisit this work in tandem with the widely reviled _A Natural History of Rape - by Randy Thornhill (recommended by Steven Pinker) and see what I think and how it may relate to the current climate.
I thought I was going to like this book but the way she treats rape and race is so upsetting! The rape of American Indian and black women receives only a few pages... and I had to put the book down when she reaches the topic of Emmett Till. According to Brownmiller, Till's whistling to a white woman was "a deliberate insult just short of physical assault" ... The chapter on interracial rape was incredible. She manages to turn this topic into how white women have been sacrificed (this continues to astound me considering the widespread lynching of black men).
It changed my life when I read it many years ago.
Recently I was cleaning out old books to give away and i almost gave this one away.
Then I met a beautiful young woman from India, a militant feminist poet in her twenties, who named this as one of her most treasured books.
It struck me that half-way around the world,and across at least a generation, a young woman in a feminist-unfriendly country, became who she is because her father saved this, and other books, for his daughter.
She is Meena Kandasamy, her book of poetry is called Ms.Militancy.
Not always accurate, in its own time or ours, but historically relevant. I can't recommend this at all, however, without also recommending Women, Race and Class by Angela Davis and Frantz Fanon: Conflicts and Feminisms by T. Denean Sharpley-Whiting, each for brief but important remarks on racism in Against Our Will.
Difficult to read more than 20-30 pages at a time, but it's really just staggering. It makes me want to yell at every history teacher I've ever had for not telling me about rape throughout the history of the world. This book makes it clear that rape is not a personal problem but a sociological tool. Read it and weep (literally).
Chapters reviewing rape in disparate contemporary settings (by police, in prison, U.S. crime statistics) as well as throughout various mythlogies, make the ubiquity of the pattern almost overwhelming.The long, thoughtful discussion about the intersection of rape and violence against blacks may be controversial for some, but shouldn’t be if read objectively.
She makes the point that the male mind-set of women being tools whose bodies are for mens’ use is so entrenched in all of society that some black liberation leaders of her time, like Eldredge Cleaver, fought back against white oppression by vowing to rape as many white women as possible.
It has nothing to do with sex or desire.Brownmiller is hailed as the first person to comprehensively tackle the subject of rape at a time when a lot of people still believed that women couldn't be raped, or if they could, it was probably her fault for wearing or saying the wrong thing.
She describes her own experience of writing a feature piece for Esquire in 1968 about a rape case in which she disbelieved the victim because she was a liberal, the woman who was accusing was white, and the accused were black.
But I started reading it in September (of course), and while I was highlighting stuff while reading, I didn't want to pick it back up when I put it down, and it was also far too depressing.
It was interesting in parts, ja, but I expect this will be one of the books I'll keep on hand as a reference source when writing, but not reading from cover to cover.
(Also, back when it was written I expect this was the first book a lot of women had read addressing these issues.
I don't want to discount what they did, but.

I think every woman should read this book.
It's really the first book to address rape in a thorough, historical way (it was written in the 1970s but is still very relevant).
It's interesting the way she frames the issue.
Something along the lines of "In the beginning there was man and there was woman.
Man raped woman, and so began the oppression and subjugation of women by men....
etc."My only caveat is the long chapter on rape in war.
A short synopsis would read: men rape during war and it's pretty much accepted and that is really screwed up.
Certainly ambitious but her analysis is almost completely flawed in my opinion. She's racist and homophobic and (it goes without saying) cissexist, and her analysis of the origins of patriarchy is pretty structuralist, teleological, speculative, and lacking in nuance. Idk this book probably brought rape to a lot of people's attention as a feminist issue but the things it has to say about rape and the (mostly carceral) solutions it offers are ..... not too good.
Hey remember when feminism was all about white women, demonised non white men, sex positivity didn't exist and every cherry picked statistic was emotionally charged to induce fear among women?What a trip, that nazi comparison at the end was the cherry on top.
I read this book years ago. It is a hard read because of the subject matter, although a large part of me truly believes that victims should read it. It really is helpful.Brownmiller is a strong, clear writer.
Almost too depressing to keep reading. Very statistic heavy.
Terrible; I couldn't even finish this book.
That being said, I started reading this books with the mentality that since this book was published in 1975 there would be viewpoints and statements that did not age well and that have become wrong or moot over time.Given all this, I was pleasantly surprised that this book managed to avoid most of the pitfalls of works that were written right in the "heat" of a political movement.
Perhaps the highest praise of Brownmiller's work I can give is that she somehow manages to get her point across on a highly charged social issue without over-editorializing.
