https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156188.Omensetter_s_Luck
I guess you could say William Gass is a craftsman of a different kind, a craftsman of words.
Interestingly, from what I’ve read, the original manuscript for Omensetter’s Luck (his only copy) was stolen, requiring Gass to begin anew.
It’s the clanging, banging, rhythmic sentences; the artistry of words.
It’s the kind of book that should be read ALOUD!
The complexity of form, the demands made on the reader – the perplexity of it all: these are the things I search for.
I expect nothing less from a great writer.
And Mr. Gass is certainly one of the greats.
He draws up stories daily, hourly, first lines spilling from his lips by the minute:In the mornings, Matt was like a bell...Omensetter was a wide and happy man...
But Tott decides to give us only three - Henry’s, Furber’s, and wrapping itself around them both, the story of Omensetter.
While in most of the fiction writing, the characters, the plot, the beginning, the middle & the end, all gives rise to the words, it’s the other way round in case of this book, and William Howard Gass is a wordsmith and a tough task master.
The ‘luck’ in Omensetter’s Luck is also highlighted in a more incisive way in this section which gives us an idea as to how it affected lives of both Omensetter and the other town folks, especially that of Henry.
Furber is, in my opinion, one of the great literary creations and as you spend a good deal of the novel inside his head, you get to know him quite well.The novel opens with Israbestis Tott (don’t you live those names) looking back; then Henry Pimber; soon to be deceased; has his say.
And he laughed his deep, loud, wide happy laugh whenever he could – which was often long and joyfully.”Earth, air and water; Omensetter is a bit of a conundrum; he is on the surface seen as good, moral and a symbol of innocence.
Abandoned church near Somerset, Ohio.This is a strange and almost mystic book, and invites as much dissection and study as some more holy writ.The story mainly concerns two characters.
The second is Jethro Furber, a tight-lipped man of god whose only companions are dead men and his own warped mind, fixed between doggerel and theology.
Omensetter himself does not make too much of an appearance, as a bulk of the story is in Furber's own mind.
This book is sensitive to the needs of the mind and soul, and dives deep into the questions of philosophy, and repression, and the human spirit.
Comparisons to Faulkner, Joyce and Stein are slung about like so many dead cats at a dead cat convention, and while Gass is clearly working within a strictly modernist mode, the comparisons confine this masterful prose to the redundancy of similarity—sure, Furber’s internal monologue has the meandering drear of Dedalus on the beach, and parts of his narration drift into Steinian opacity—but the way Gass builds the rage, tension, madness and fly-on-the-wall horror of this novel is unique to his own dark vision.
The Furber story, at over 225pp, is where Gass truly grinds his barbed-wire prose into the page, building up this bent cleric’s downfall with symphonic dialogue and monologue, until the most lucid and devastating stretch of the 70-or-so pages that wind up the novel with an extended scene that drips with futility and hopelessness and black humour.
Nor whither, willy-nilly blowing..." Rubáiyát of Omar KhayyámLike Omensetter, Gass (our very own Willy-Nilly) is prepared to try his luck, tempt fate, go with the flow, see what happens."The Moving Finger Writes and, Having Writ, Moves On"There is no necessary plot as such.
Together they constitute or compose music:"What you make is music, and because your sounds are carriers of concepts, you make conceptual music, too." Having achieved their task, the words move to the back, unchanged, permanent, irrevocable:"Nor all thy Piety nor Wit,Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line,Nor all thy Tears wash out a Word of it." Rubáiyát of Omar KhayyámThe words are passed, gone, irrecoverable, at least until, in the manner of Proust, they insinuate their way into the memory of the reader and insist on being recalled.Only, in the unique case of "Omensetter’s Luck", this is not strictly correct.
Word, word, what is a word,Can it be seen, can it be heard,down with the fish, up with the bird,floating obscene, flying absurd?--- A [word] is a [word] is a [word].-Gertrude Stein Obscene. A man who uses a great many words to express his meaning is like a bad marksman who, instead of aiming a single stone at an object, takes up a handful and throws at it in hopes he may hit. -Samuel Johnson, lexicographer Absurd.---Do you see where I'm getting?Am I not being clear?I was doing quite well,Dancing
Word, word, what is a word,Can it be seen, can it be heard,down with the fish, up with the bird,floating obscene, flying absurd?---
A man who uses a great many words to express his meaning is like a bad marksman who, instead of aiming a single stone at an object, takes up a handful and throws at it in hopes he may hit.
One Human Being, Full of Joy and Love for Living, sans The Word of God (B for Short)Steps1.
Add The Word of God3.
Ferment, mixing in additional Knowledge of Sin, Guilt, Fear of Living, and Love of Logos as needed.4.
I can't say that it's the style he writes in, it's very similar to the way William Gaddis structured JR, except that it's easier to follow since usually you are just dealing with the focus on one character and not an ever shifting narrative thread (except for possibly the first short chapter of the book, which I enjoyed more than the rest of the novel).
I sometimes feel like authors like John Barth, the Barthelme's, and Robert Coover can get this way too, and it makes me think that it's similar to a little kid getting a kick out of saying a dirty word.
Much in the fashion of a lonely deity or (at the risk of redundancy) a scientific force dividing What a Thing Is in half to create What a Thing Isn't But the Opposing Thing Is, the Writer creates something from nothing, wringing words from a blank page, finding meaning in babbling, rambling nonsense.
Are one's external and internal memories meant to bleed into each other to ease the inevitable transition of the experience of the conscious self back to the unconscious cycle of nature?)Opposing forces will always be at odds but that battle is often a stalemate in neutral.
Even when bejeweled with the brilliance of metaphor we are too occupied living the unfolding story which is leaping and shifting through time, residing within the complexities of characters, to notice any trace.Gass's opening section, The Triumph Of Israbestis Tott, is remarkable for all that it accomplishes in inviting us into the story and foretelling what is to come.
While on the surface someone to scoff at, someone who suffered and may also have served as a precautionary tale, was the most courageous.In my hands I was reading a book, a story, it too made of letters and words, which for me was offering the tougher existence of facing and pursuing doubt, not counting on and settling for the vagaries of history, belief, the muteness of cliches.
In one way Gilean was more punished than Egypt, he thought, since Egypt was never visited by a plague of lies.In his first novel, William Gass traverses the Faulkner-Hawthorne territory, with faltering steps in the beginning but by the middle of it; Omensetter's Luck  assumes all the tragic intensity and fatalism of a biblical tale.So what do we have here– small town= small minds; but no, those folks in riverside Gilean, Ohio were doing well enough till one man's bitterness turned the whole town into a cesspool of intolerance & distrust with tragic consequences.Omensetter's Luck is a dazzling premise on the Demonisation of the Other – a person whose sole crime is that he looks, thinks and behaves differently:I think I recognize the nature of his magic.
He jerked his head he arched his back he scratched his ventricles he shrieked aloud when he saw he had another 125 pages leftO O OmensetterWill you ever get much better?O O Reverend PWhen the oysters all leave the seaAnd anyway, here's a nice riddleI thought thy brow was high but it turns out to be middleYay, thou miserable gainsayer.
Thou’rnt good enough to be the seat on mine own privy shouldst not thou payest thy five star homage.
Now I intend to put my finger up my nose!
Or your nose!
A revelatory sense of wonder awaits anyone who is yet to discover and read this fine novel.
It's a brave book in style and structure —giving over the core of the book to the feverish, and often disorientating, inner thoughts and visions of a disturbed man, Jethro Furber; the town's new preacher— but this literary style and technique resolves to great emotional and narrative rewards.
Furber's inner world is feverish kaleidoscope of Kafka'esque visions and words.
It's the pure raw joy of literature and reading.The plot is exquisitely drawn and entirely projected through character and dialog.
Gass’s Omensetter’s Luck opens with a short and arresting chapter told from the perspective of a minor character, Israbestis Tott, continuing in the second chapter to tell the story of Henry Pimber, who will be dead by the time the bulk of the novel gets going, the final three-fourths of the book being a vast interior monologue by Gilean, Ohio’s preacher, Jethro Furber, a crabbed Iago-like personage filled with bile, poetry, and sexual fantasies, the crux of the narrative being Furber’s transformation and redemption as he interacts with Brackett Omensetter, a sort of natural innocent who arrives in Bilean unexpectedly with his pregnant wife and two daughters, Omensetter unintentionally shaking the previously hidden roles and relationships of a sleepy river town in the early 1900’s, sending events careening out of control, a cue ball at the break.
Gass’s language and metaphors are startling, creative, and arresting, and the novel could be read with delight and fascination for the language alone.
It was like this....A fox got trapped in Brackett Omensetter's well.
Omensetter's landlord, Henry Pimber, came for the rent, nagged to do so by his wife.
Omensetter came and made a red beet poultice.
Saved Henry's life but stained Mrs. Pimber's counter.
When Pimber came again for the rent, Omensetter held it in his hand and took Pimber for a walk, to the highest point nearby.
Pimber would return there, alone, and with a one-way ticket.What was Omensetter's luck?
Henry tried to speak but Omensetter led.
But in a certain sense, art, if it is to be called a masterpiece should do more than just be perfect in form.
So then, is something so beautiful considered art?
Omensetter’s luck, if it were human would be a beautiful person, supremely intelligent, devoid of emotion, deeply introversive.
But, these personal musings, if you did read them, are somewhat similar to the contents of this novel.
Furber is the life of the book, but in a sense he also is the death.
Furber, the death and the life; ironic, like his Maker.
The long middle third is mostly taken up with the long, rambling stream-of-consciousness logorrhea of Jethro Furber -- a very complex character, in the final analysis, but which is difficult to follow and unravel (though the general outlines are clear enough).
The final section brings together all the threads of plot and character and language...
and yet, I couldn't help but feel that the magnificent potential of Omensetter's remarkable personality and the brilliance of the opening passages were never fully taken up again.
The first seventy-five pages, which are the most difficult part of the monolog, do more to set up themes, foreshadow future conflicts, and analyze the Reverend's motivations than they do move the story forward in a cause-and-effect sense.
That's not to say you can skip them, because the monolog is a tour de force, but understand that it both requires and rewards your patience.2.
I understand why this might be tempting, but this section demands (and, in my opinion, rewards) intensive attention.
3. Accept that you're not going to understand everything that Gass throws at you.
This book satisfies on a word by word basis. By that I mean, that every word is a mini-thrill all by itself. The running flow of the narrative Is near miraculous.
However, because of how engaging the prose was, how engrossing the story of Omensetter, of Gilean, of Furber’s decline was, I’m more than excited to dive into more of Gass’s fictions, and surely into his books of essays.The Afterword, however, was almost as good in and of itself as the rest of the novel, which suggests to me that Gass got better and better, making me even more eager to see what else he has in store.A major rubric for me in how deeply I engaged with and connected to a text is my feeling of whether I’d be eager to re-read it immediately after closing it.
-little section in early middle drags a bit, but need to stick it out, worth it.-the idea for my own first attempt at a novel was almost this: man perceived as good by his society, plagued by depraved thoughts and intentions, limited in acting by his own cowardice makes him appear a paragon, while another has purity of intention but blunders into "evil" by happenstance, inattention, unluck.
-this novel, much more complex than my over-simple gamete of an idea makes me glad I never seriously tried it.
A long, slow burn.-the randomish smattering of racism seems maybe not justified by historical realism considering that theme seems tangential.
Why have You made us the saddest animal? (...) He cannot do it, Henry, that is why. He can’t continue us. All He can do is try to make us happy that we die. Really, He’s a pretty good fellow. This isn’t an easy book to read - but boy is the view along the way pretty. Gass’s alternately high and bawdy stream-of-consciousness rants made me feel at times like I was rereading Gravity's Rainbow. But as much as I love Pynchon’s maddening door-stopper, I don’t think he’s ever written anything half as
This isn’t an easy book to read - but boy is the view along the way pretty.
But as much as I love Pynchon’s maddening door-stopper, I don’t think he’s ever written anything half as beautiful as any given passage from Omensetter’s Luck.And yet… In the afterword, Gass says of one of the novel's earlier drafts: ‘The book I was looking at didn’t know what it was up to, or where it was going, or who its principal character was,’ which, uncannily, is exactly what I kept thinking to myself as I drifted through the final published version of said book.
And of course yes Gass is good.
I mean, it's not better just cuz Herr Gass is writing about my hometown.Which brings in of course my little Gass=lite rant about that thing that's already ranted about plenty.
Because it's not like Gass is capturing some little Midwestie town.
It's odd, isn't it, that Gass is accused of being Kohler but never Furber.
Neither is Gass.
And that's the nice little piece to remember when you get yourself waist deep into that waste of a man Furber that he's just words words words not a portrait whose lines you have to trace.
The writing is beautiful, and many sentences and paragraphs will tempt you to memorize them.The narrators, for different reasons, have problems thinking coherently, and since this is a stream-of-consciousness experimental novel, it is a slow read.
Unlike the other chapters where the narrators are distressed, Tott, through his stories, has a firm grip on his internal life, despite the mysteries and unsolved problems.
While double D can conjure the entire history of financial capital in a few words spoken over the phone by a middle-school student, Gass's dialogue (particularly towards the end, when Furber starts defending Omensetter) is less interesting and a good deal more repetitive than his narration (though more interesting and less repetitive than the stream of consciousness stuff).
In other words, this book comprises, for the most part, three thing that Gass is not good at, or that nobody is good at, plot, dialogue and stream of consciousness.
You should read Gass, but if you're looking for someone to tell you to start elsewhere, I'm your man.
(63-64)(view spoiler)[Lotsa arboreal allusions & arborescent images in these sections (and later, beautiful beyond measure, in priest’s section, a riff on Hebrew scripture and Absalom (105 ff.)), which I’ve mostly passed over, but please be advised that second narrator notes: “It was still sorrowful to die.
Enter third narrator, a priest: “I protest this world of unilluminated cocks” (84), which of course dissents from how they “cut the end of their cocks off with consecrated scissors […] what Greek would countenance disfigurement like that, and encourage such a loss of feeling in a fellow” (205).
Priest (i.e., Furber) obsesses on semiotic questions, pondering and meditating in order to penetrate and come, with the objective of reformulating and redeciphering whatever has caught his mind’s eye.
From its reputation I always pictured this novel as an Infinite Jest-sized brick that would require to me block out a few months of reading time.
Faulkner and Updike filter Joyce in their differing but charming ways; I think I might like Gass's too:"Everybody wants it new, he said.
Now for myself, I'd want a house that had a little more than my weak pozzly tracks through it.
I'd sit in my chair in the quiet by the window, and watch the purpling air, the lazy hats and horses, and I'd think back on...well, the seasons of families, the passage of blood through the house..."
, love was never taught to me, I couldn't spell it, the O was always missing, or the V, so I wrote love like live, or lure, or late, or law, or liar." Omensetter's Luck was a Gass to read.
This book has every emotion on the emotion spectrum, and I felt them all while reading.
The quote at the top, you can read it again, if you must, was what I felt the best summary of why The Reverend Jethro Furber was so horrible.
. .Y. He, as a preacher, hated Ole Brackett, who was an exceptional man.
He was the opposite of the holy man; he actually cared for people.
"Brackett Omensetter was a wide and happy man."Is that not the most beautiful sentence?Gass is a poet, who happens to write novels.
And, for some reason, I don't picture the author editing with a thesaurus; I picture Gass has this reference book installed into his subconscious, where the words flow from his mouth onto the written page.
The main part, giving a perspective from a demented preacher, is a stream of consciousness style that can be overwhelming at times, but just when you are about to give up, Gass seems to recognize the reader's exasperation and throws in a couple of pages of dialogue that would match anything from Elmore Leonard.
