https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/879299.When_The_Legends_Die
I read this book in Junior High, and for some reason it really stuck with me.
My dear sister in law helped me figure out which book this was -- so I was able to read it again!It sings the song of a horrible point in the history of the United States America where so many amazing people were destroyed in the name of "civilization." I have been interested in this subject studying George Catlin, in college, who painted many of the last men and women who represented certain tribes before their ways and their traditions were totally obliterated by disease and/or loss of land and livelihood.
Their response to the novel is much like the 714 ratings here at Goodreads: some of them like it and some of them hate it, and all told their responses would probably level out at three stars just like my rating and pretty close to the average rating of the Goodreads populace.I like the book and I enjoy teaching it, even if it's not a 5-star read like, say, To Kill a Mockingbird, and I've argued to keep it in the curriculum because it has a lot going for its inclusion.
This local color plays prominently in When the Legends Die, which takes place in the southwestern United States.When the Legends Die traces the life path of the novel's protagonist Thomas Black Bull, a Native American Ute from Southwestern Colorado.
Living alone in the wilderness, Tom befriends many animals and becomes particularly close to a bear cub whom he considers his closest friend and his brother.The most prominent theme of the novel involves Tom's lifelong struggle to find meaning, happiness, and peace in his life.
Then he turned and left, a tired and bruised old man who somehow, the agent couldn't figure quite how, represented the pride and dignity of a whole race.""He stood among the ashes and whispered his sorrow chant, not even saying it aloud.
When you plowed up the grass you were making the earth into something it did not want to be."" 'Frijole,' he said to it, 'our young friend thinks he is the boss.
Nothing mattered except those intervals in the arena when he, like the broncs themselves, was a fighting creature wholly devoted to punishment and violence.""But you don't ride as long as he had ridden without knowing a few times when fear does share the saddle.
I built up a huge library of books and then decided to live a simpler life and got rid of all of them, except this book, Spider, the Terrible Cat, and A Clockwork Orange.I read this book for the first time when I was twelve.
The first part of the book held a resonance for me that I find it hard to explain.
Nature was always a balm for me when the world was too hard to deal with.I read this book again in my twenties.
Not many books can travel along with you throughout your life and still resonate within you.
The book is about the life of Tom Black Bull and his struggles to find his identity.
He caught the eye of Red Dillion and began his life as a bronc rider.
Red was a drunk and a gambler who told Tom how to ride and when to win.
It was like that until Tom was tired of listening to Red and decided to make his own decisions and ride to win.
Red and Meo eventually expired and Tom traveled the rodeo circuit alone trying to win the big purses.
But Tom was determined to ride again and prove everyone wrong.
The fiery youth occasionally bends but never breaks from the cruelty of those he happens to come across yet is strengthened by chance encounters that lead him to greener pastures.Split into four distinct segments, the story of Thomas Black Bull reveals itself in quarters, each occupying its own distinct flair and purpose in the narrative that dictates who he shall become.
Borland breaths life into Thomas by identifying the unique circumstances that shape his persona and giving his underdog tale true optimism with each page turn.
Finishing the last page may be the last we see of Thomas, but the imprint of his tale of adversity turned to unabashed anger to the potential of peace leaves a legacy that will surely never die.
Although this book is popular and well liked by many readers, I believe that it subtly perpetuates Native American stereotypes and misrepresentations.The author was not a Native American and it shows over and over as he tries unsuccessfully to explain the contemporary cultural struggles of Native Americans through his main character Thomas Black Bull.
Borland creates Thomas, a Ute Indian who is orphaned and resists assimilation in every way he can usually with violence.
Since the author was not a Ute Indian, Thomas just lives as a sketch of resistance and a facade of enduring nobleness and stoicism.
Incorporated in this timeless novel are many themes relevant to a young man's growth.
The main character's forced removal from his forefathers' way of life and from intimate contact with nature makes his coming-of-age crisis even more difficult and moving.
He chooses the life of a wandering bullrider, emphasizing the tumultuous emotional journey he undergoes.
The book relates the injustices committed by white settlers in the taming of the West, making it a solid period piece, but with many human elements that one can relate to in any era.
I highly recommend this to anyone, but especially young people and those interested in Native Americans or living in harmony with nature.

My English teacher recommended this book in High School. It wasn't assigned reading, but she thought I would enjoy it. She was right! A truly moving story.. something I'm looking forward to reading again soon.
This was a really interesting book and a great way to understand the struggles faced by Native Americans as they are forced to change their ways of living. Also, the author definitely did a good job in describing the nature of the American southwest where most of the book took place.
From that point until the conclusion of the novel, the underlying theme is one of isolation.Thomas's family is forced to leave the community and find their way in the wilderness.
Blue Elk, a fellow Ute, pretends to befriend Thomas and his family in the beginning of the story.
His cheating often causes the two of them to get into trouble such that they must strategically hide their horses for sudden getaways from the small Western towns in which Thomas rides in rodeos.The story is told from the point of view of an omniscient narrator.
Some have told me the book is slow, but it isn't; it just requires full attention and a good deal of your energy.
In fact, I would recommend reading this book to every teen I know.
The novel is painful to read not only for the account of how ways of life were destroyed for Native Americans, but for how much of our own lives are taken away from all of us by the rest of us, whether we intend it or not.
If you haven't read this one, it's in the League of Life-Changing Novels for Teens and remains excellent for adults as well.
I think this book is great for high school level readers, and is great in tha fact that is has a lot of a historical background.
Through out all of the book it slowly gives you a time frame of the late 1800's in which the Dawes act was accuring.
In the story it goes through the character Thomas Black Bull's life, from early childhood to when he is fully grown up.
Thomas gets forced into the American culture early in the book, and tries to survive.
I had to read this in high school, and it was the only book in high school that we were assigned to read that I didn't like.
One of my all time favorite books! I wore this one out when I was younger.
After losing his parents, he is subjected to the modern world through forced education, bias against his race, child employment, among other things.
I have done my fair share of mucking out and this is neither trade nor craft: Find poop.
Add fresh bedding.Child employment is another matter.
Thomas learns well and even after breaking with Red, keeps the hatred and anger that he learned to gain the fame of a horse killer.This book tells the story of Thomas' early life learning the old ways, his schooling, his rodeo circuit days and, at the end, his redemption and understanding of who he really is.
I’ve been trying to remember what grade it was we read this book, fifth, sixth?
Growing up in Gallup, I had misremembered reading it in an earlier grade- but it is much too adult a book for that.
Reading a classic at different times in life is a great experience I have found.
I am still awed that a teacher thought this book was appropriate for whatever young age we were, but we were more mature growing up than kids are now.
This book has a heartbreaking beginning, and unfortunately it is the story that many of this country's indigenous people share, that of being torn away from a life that had been practiced for centuries to be forced into one that is bewildering and incomprehensible.
The journey of Tom Black Bull from boyhood to self discovery as a mature man takes us through years of brutal existence as a bronc rider on the rodeo circuit.
His attempt to take revenge on the people who used and deceived him by becoming 'Killer Tom Black' culminates with a crisis of spirit in which he realizes that there is nothing left for him to do but to kill himself.
This is a very tragic story of an Indian boy who had a run of very hard luck as a child and became what I felt was a very dysfunctional adult.
Living off the the land, and avoiding the white man and his world.This was a very well written book, and enjoyable, but I spent much of my time wondering what the main character Thomas Black Bull was hoping to accomplish.
Regardless, it is a story I would recommend to anyone as it gives a peak into a different culture, and exhibits the importance of observing a heritage, but also of the human ability to adapt to circumstance.
This book was given to me by my brother-in-law, a former high school English literature teacher.
He said that he has read the book numerous times, and used it again and again in class to demonstrate the method of writing and understanding the book, other than the story itself.
For me, it was probably more about the story and the insights that it provided about the how, who, what, where and when of Indian life.
I enjoyed it very much, and have proceeded on to many other books regarding Native Americans, and Native American authors to try and get their perspective.
Thomas Black Bull and his family go live in the wilderness after his father has killed another Indian.
His father dies in an accident and soon thereafter his mother grieves herself to death.
The young boy vows never to live in the white world - and makes a valiant attempt to live o his own in the wilderness, practicing the old ways.
Of course he eventually enters the white man's world, on his own terms, as a ranch hand and then a rodeo cowboy.A well written, thoughtful book, exploring the old wild west and the clash between Indian and white ways.
It's difficult to remember the plot because it was a monotonous book. All I can remember is an unhappy boy becomes an infamous rodeo rider, is neither happy nor unhappy with it, quits for no reason I can remember, and I have no idea how it ended. I read it when I was fifteen or sixteen and thought it monotonous and cruel. On the plus side it gave me insight into a certain personality type.
Great insightsI enjoyed hearing about the characters Native American culture at a time when it clashed with European expectations, and how he healed from his lost self. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in getting into the minds of cultures that have been robbed if their identity and lifestyle
A simple read but profound. Our scars and past are what make us who we are.
Dolce. Poetico. Sincero, diretto, potente. Come solo le leggende sanno essere. Questo libro sa di sale e terra, come il vento.
Better than average YA novel in a similar vein to the works of John Steinbeck and Cormac McCarthy.
This book was a bit slow getting started, but the ending was one of my all time favorites! A classic novel and wonderful story of struggle and triumph.
I read this book years ago and loved it enough to give it 10 stars on Bookcrossing.10 years later I remember nothing about it except what the cover looks like.
