https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81069.The_Forgotten_Beasts_of_Eld
how to express how much I love Patricia McKillip and her books, how much her stories move me, how they slowly and invisibly transform from enthralling fairy tale to a genuinely emotional experience?
she is a cold woman and her forest is surrounded by an angry world.
she surrounds herself in turn, with what she loves, the only things she truly understands: her beasts - her friends.
the story is about being loved and falling in love; it is about making bad decisions and letting terrible things turn you into something terrible.
Raised in isolation by her father on Eld Mountain and orphaned at age 16, she's inherited a marvelous menagerie of powerful and wise magical animals.
When a young lord, Coren, brings her a baby, Tamlorn, a pawn in the power plays of men, and begs her to raise and protect him, she somewhat reluctantly agrees.
I've always thought the Liralen was a pretty clear symbol of love, but I did a little spot-checking of online reviews and saw some other people suggest that it's happiness or joy.
It's an interesting idea, though, the juxtaposition of fear with love (or happiness) as flip sides to the same magical creature.A beautiful book.
What a magical book!! Just what I needed! Happy Reading!Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾
Yes, the writing quality is great and on the level only few books of the genre can reach.
For starters by the middle of the book every single named male character of the story was madly in love with her.
Other than Sybel the only character showing any signs of being a living being was Coren.
The rest were serving just to move the story along.Lots of people love the book and my problem was that I was looking for great characters and could not find any that interest me.
What made this novel really amazing is how excellent Patricia A. McKillip wrote this. The author used her skill to write majestic words to describe each character and places, as well as breathtaking prose to narrate the story. If I'm not mistaken, this book was first published four decades ago and that it also won the World Fantasy Award for Novel in 1975. It wouldn't be winning an award if it's not good, right? McKillip utilized her eloquence that made the story of Sybel, Tam, Coren, and of the beasts a truly astounding novel that everyone must read.
I mean, I did skim some of the reviews, so I knew it was highly rated and people seemed to love, but other than that, I had no idea what it's about or what to expect, and I had never read Patricia McKillip before.And that was the best way to approach because the writing blew me away.
So what is this book about?Briefly: Sybel, a young powerful sorceress who knows nothing of the world below her mountain and wants nothing to do with it, is pushed into the affairs of two warring sides within a kingdom when a baby is brought to her to raise.
Stories that had been around for a lot longer are often written in a different way than the books of today.
In a lot of ways McKillip's writing style reminded me of Robin Hobb's Assassin's Apprentice which I also read earlier this year.
There are brief moments of darkness, but McKillip instead highlights all of the beauty and wonder of her world and it never stops feeling magical.
It was a lovely take on fantasy, and in a lot of ways the story still feels timeless in spite of having first been published in 1974.
In this novel of isolation and seclusion, Sybil is brought up by her father on Eld mountain.
When Sybil's father passes away, isolated Sybil - still with only her beasts for company- studies magic to evolve into a powerful sorceress.
Sybil expends much of her time trying to call-up a unique creature that might grant her more liberty, yet one day, a man called Coren arrives requesting that Sybil raises and protects a baby.
McKillip has a deft touch, and both the plot and her unique style of writing will make this a compelling read for most.
One day Patricia A.
McKillip will write a bad book and that'll be the first sign of the impending apocalypse.
I have no idea how I went through so many years of my life without having read her books.
Like all of McKillip's books the reader is lost in her magical worlds from the very first page.
She writes things and they seem to come alive, to leave the written paper and surround you, wherever you may be reading.
Honestly, this book was so wonderful I was almost run over by a car while reading it and walking on the street.

McKillip has always been a writer I was in awe of, especially her amazing ability to craft an exciting fantasy tale that still finds a place for both dignity and seriousness in its pages, and The Enchanted Beasts of Eld was no exception, making me wonder only why it took me so long to actually read it.Lyrical, complex, concise, and emotional, this novel is one I will be readily espousing to lovers of high fantasy, fairy tales, and beautifully writing.
This is my favorite book of all time.
If I had to pick a desert island book, it would be this one.There is something about the way this book flows that is actually literary magic.
It's about magic, and riddles, and all sort of other legendary things but it's like fractal mathematics: beautiful, impossible for an ordinary human to understand, and yet hypnotic.
Just the opening paragraph is chilling, and thrilling, and all sort of other trilling llls in a row.
I can't describe this book, because its better than that.
It's not funny, or cute, or silly or any of those things.
I both liked and disliked this book...
I feel like it's because midway, the book changes quite drastically.
I am not comfortable with a crucial thing most high fantasies do, and that's dropping 50 inconsequential names of legendary kings and beasts on me in the first page, none of which pretty much relate to the story at all, are described or are even to do with mythology - so basically, I end up with a jumble of interesting sounding syllables that mean nothing to me.
If this book was like this in its entirety, I would have surely given it 4 stars!
This full review can be viewed on my blog along with others at: shesgoingbookcrazy.comI received an ARC of this book from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. Thanks!Released today!  “I need you to forgive me. And then perhaps I can begin to forgive myself. There is no one but you who can do that either.”  A book like this is intimidating to pick up. Not because it is mundane, nor because it is necessarily daunting (although it is, in a way). No, my friends. This book entails every aspect
The tidbits that we are privy to are delicious, whimsical, and truly meaningful.Now, to the story...Our main character Sybel, is the daughter of Ogam, a man born from a line of wizards.
His special powers allowed him to "call" many spectacular creatures to live among his castle walls, safely nestled in the mountains of Eld. Sybel, growing up in a world separate from the one she lives in, knows little of the outside world.
There are two different points in this book that I didn't necessarily like, and made me take a half-star off:#1 Because this is a shorter novel, changes aren't always allowed enough time to happen without feeling a bit forced.
It’s so strange how I disliked the first book of hers I read; I feel like I appreciate her work more with each book I do read.
It’s full of epic fantasy elements but the real struggle is between taking revenge and being true to who you really are and those you love.
I can understand why some people disliked it for that very thing, but for me it perfectly matched the subject.I like high fantasy, but since so much of it draws from the same well as Tolkien, there’s something all too real about it sometimes.
It was impressive to my teenaged self, but was the beginning of the end for me and fantasy as a primary reading genre.
I am hurt and helpless, but nothing will fill the ache of the hollowness in me where your name would echo if I lost you.It wouldn't hit me how precisely this passage describes parenthood, as well as other profound states of love, until I got there myself.
I've said it before: I could feel myself growing a uterus as I read Bradley's book.
I still don't much care for majgickq and teenagers as main characters require some serious persuading to induce me to pick up and read a book.
I'd already read a good portion of the middle-reader books and was starting to make forays into that exciting new shelf of big kid books.I'm not sure why this book was there.
I already loved fantasy books, but after these early readings, I started to seek out McKillip novels--something I still do today.
She's one of my favorites.Now I think that 11 was probably too young to read this novel, but at the time I loved the strange and fascinating beasts.
(All good fiction should evoke an emotional reaction, so it was a pleasant sort of upsetting!) When I saw this book re-released and available on NetGalley, I snatched it up.
Indeed, it's almost a relief when the veil is completely ripped away and you see the true horror of the abuse of that power in such close and personal terms and the desperation it engenders in even the threat if its use.And the story goes deeply into the obsessive darkness inherent in being ruled by hate and revenge.
I think that's because it sticks closely with Sybel and her interactions with others are mostly one-on-one and therefore contained and framed in the personal even though the individual elements are so broad.
That last line is simple and yet contains a world of meaning that is possible only by the entire story that precedes it.
Goodness, this was a great story!
Coren asks her to love and protect the child, Tam, and she agrees.
With the help of her beasts and the local hedge witch, Maelga, Sybel raises little Tam and in the process, learns to love.
When trouble comes to the mountain and threatens the safety of Tam and the beasts, Sybel must fight to protect herself and those she loves.The many painful lessons of growing up include facing ourselves, correcting our faults, and most importantly, learning to forgive others, even when those who harm us don't ask for our forgiveness.
Enter a land where wise old boars speak, as well as falcons, lions and cats.
A land filled with sorcery, beauty and evil .
. .Known as the ice white lady, Sybil was raised to live to care only for the mythical beasts under her control - powerful, beautiful and wise, and feared by man - she knows none of the ways of men and prefers to keep it that way.
It's an imaginative story of love, betrayal and forgiveness, filled with intriguing characters you won't soon forget.
Dude, I'm glad this was not the first McKillip book I ever read.
But I definitely wouldn't have given her other books a chance if I'd come across this one first.Well, okay, terrible might be a little strong.
It definitely feels like an early work; the style I expect in her writing isn't quite there, it has a tendency towards melodrama, the pacing is terrible, and the characters - and especially their relationships - are way underdeveloped.
Not a good sign when your most loathed part of a book is its main character.
And, like, every dude wanted her the moment they saw her.
The child's mother also died in childbirth, and Sybel steps a little away from the arid intellectualism of being a great mage to raise the child, named Tam, and grows to love him.She also learns that he is not, as she was told, the child of Coren's brother, but of the king Coren's family has been warring with, and thus Sybel is drawn further into the schemes of men, never quite doing what it is they want of her, but being changed by the interaction all the same (view spoiler)[falling a little for Coren, and then being very briefly enslaved by a mage hired by the king to turn her into a puppet wife.And from here we move into a vengeance tale.
I've just found another Mckillip favourite; wow, this was all kinds of epic.
This was a bit denser than the usual bedtime-reading fare, both in the writing and in the feelz. But the little one loved it, and that's what matters.
It's worth noting that the book won the first World Fantasy Award (in 1975).The story heroine is a white-haired, black-eyed wizard Sybel who lives on Eld Mountain with magical, sentient beasts with whom she can converse telepathically.
There's one empty space - the great white bird Liralen remains out of her reach.Sybel live isn't complicated.
The time comes when Sybel will have to return the child to his father who's not who Coren claimed it was.
Mythical beasts have more personality than Coren or Tam. Sybel remains a total stranger to introspection.
8 year old me loves to read and writes short stories about two girls who make friends with a dragon on a mountain.
Much like the animals in this novel, I felt drawn inexorably towards Sybel and her story.
Patricia McKillip seems to have a hold over me, because reading her novels, I cannot help but be whisked back to my 8 year old self.
Sybel is a character who was everything I ever fantasised I would be when I was young - beautiful, powerful, surrounded by loved ones and animals and books.
He's probably right.9/17/2012: It's been a long time since I've read this, maybe not since I was a teen.
Patricia McKillip has always been one of the great stylists of fantasy literature, possibly of all literature, and when you consider that this was only her third published book, and arguably her first for adult readers, it's even more impressive.
Then it's the story that keeps me there: Sybel, trying to remain neutral in a war between two great houses, learns that she lost that opportunity when she adopted a baby that both sides believe belongs to them.
She shares this home with the magical beasts called by her father and grandfather: the Black Swan of Tirlith; Cyrin the Boar who still can speak; Gyld the Dragon; Lyon Gules; Cat Moriah; and the Falcon Ter. Sybel takes care of these animals and they, in turn, are loyal to her.
Tell me now: which of us has the heart of ice?” (35) Sybel is faced with a decision: keep Tamlorn safe from the world of men, which she perceives to be full of hatred and war and violence, or return him to his father, something that Tam wishes.
3.5/5; 4 stars; B+The dreamy quality of McKillip's writing draws a person in and makes the reader feel like they are part of the fairytale.
I like how this author makes some pretty in depth commentary on society, gender roles, politics and intangible things like hopes and dreams.
She doesn't lay it out directly but weaves it into her story.On its surface this is kind of a children's quest story but the underlying messages are deeper than that.
There is quite a lot of navel gazing involved in gleaning those deeper messages.
This is not the best story I've read by this author but I enjoyed it very much.
4.5 stars. This book has a dreamy, old school fantasy almost fairytale feeling about it. I really enjoyed it!
