https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11186357-valley-of-wild-horses
This is the June selection of the American Westerns Book Club Zane Grey is the master writer of the American Western.
The Valley of Wild Horses is a great story full of cowboys, horses, hombres and gun fights.
The story follows Pan, his family, friends and girl in the wild west.
The Valley of the Wild Horses, the New Mexico location in the book, is so beautifully described, that I could fully imagine myself on a horse beside Pan, seeing what he was seeing.
Desert land filled with mountains and canyons, sand and streams, cacti and cedar trees, coyotes and antelope, and thousands upon thousands of wild horses.
Story was a bit simple and some of the themes are a bit dated. Nonetheless it was masterfully written. This was my first Zane Grey novel but will certainly not be my last!
Great adventure, maybe a little slow moving, with terrific descriptive prose and very likable protagonist in young cowboy Panhandle Smith. Grey's descriptions of the valley with the thousands of wild horse made me feel like I was there, and sometimes made me wish that I was.
Zane Grey wrote so many tales of the old west so I have to believe he romanticized the era and it sparked his imagination.
Grey gives a good deal of background history on his hero, and what drives him.
I enjoyed his colorful descriptions, the vistas you could imagine.
What surprised me the most was lack of even one token Indian, or of any buffalo.
It's hard to think that his character spending years on cattle drives and traversing territory from Texas to Montana there is no mention of seeing even one Indian or a buffalo.
Rating clarification: 4.5 starsI really enjoyed this book. This was my first Zane Grey novel I have read and I wasn't disappointed. The writing is fine except for some choppy dialogue. Grey excels in describing the natural environment-- you can really sink your teeth into it and imagine you're there. Panhandle Smith is a rough yet amiable character (like any good cowboy), and you really root for him.
With my search to expand my reading genre, I decided it Valley of the Wild Horses by Zane Grey was worth a gander as I do I do love a good Western tale - Yahoo!
Pan, as he’s later called, was named by his father for the Panhandle, a lonely unruly purple range land with often, fierce winds.
Mr. Grey captivates the reader and soon you are seeing, hearing, feeling and tasting all in the life of Pan and those with him on this coming of age story.
The development of Panhandle Smith touched me, and the man he grew into was the kind of man all men should aspire to be.
The story was great, moved along mighty fast and had plenty of cowboy lore, horses and his love of the beautiful country, all described so evocatively.
There was plenty of adventure, amusing anecdotes and some romance too.
But by far the best aspect of this book was the way the dialogue was written.
It was just so natural, and in my head it sounded just the way (I think) a cowboy would speak!
This really helped to bring the characters to life and oh, what fantastic names the characters had, Panhandle Smith, Blinky Moran, Lying Juan...Zane Gray is an excellent writer and I have already downloaded a few more of his books, which I am certain I will also enjoy.
Really enjoyed a western novel that didn't have a lot of killing. It felt like a the eagles series by William Johnstone, but without all the killing fields. It presented reality during western days, when people was people, and how they all tried to make a living. Like in our modern day and time, there are still those who think money is the utmost power.
Haven't read Zane Grey for years! Not bad, although the style of writing is very outdated, it had a good story line.
Good ole fashioned western!Love the writing, the story telling. Made me yearn for a campfire, rent and my horse. I wish I could time travel back to the days of real cowboys n the Unsettled country of the west!
Read it if you can, can't say enough good stuff about that Western romance. I'll read it again in a few years, maybe sooner.
Couldn't put it down.First time to read any of the author's books. His writing and use of words engrossing. Wish I had read him years ago.
Fun western read!
The origin story of Panhandle SmithStarted out very well but dragged a bit in the second half. Not one of my favourite Zane Grey stories
A classic Western. Read and enjoy!
When you want to escape, just russle up a story like this and read by the camp fire. You won't be sorry.
The things this novel had going for it: 1.) Panhandle Smith -- quintessential cowboy (cowpuncher) 2.) New Mexico range setting 3.) The hero's plight -- Panhandle returns after years of range riding to find his family in financial run, the city overrun by corruption, and his childhood sweetheart pursued by the local villain, 4.) The side story of the saloon girl saved from her bad life.
The things I didn't really like: 1.) Some racial profiling/ stereotypes, 2.)the heroine was pretty young and flat and insubstantial -- not like many of Grey's awesome female characters (maybe the local hussy was the real heroine?!), 3.)The wild horse round-up was too hard for me to visualize -- I needed to see it on the big screen!
Wow, what can you say about a Zane Grey book that has not been said before.
I have read these since I was a little girl and my love has not changed one little bit.
If you love westerns, then these are the books for you.
Eighty seven years later horses, bad guys, love and family have not changed.
We still love reading about the old west and the guy gets the girl and they live happily ever after.
Zane Grey had a way with words that made us all love that time and I don't think another eighty seven years will change that.
I usually don't read western books but I found this very entertaining and will probably read more of them.
The story was good and the author was also great.
I am not a good storyteller but I thank God for giving this talent to so many authors for all of us to enjoy.
I will read more western books in the future.
This story was about rounding up wild horses, getting them into a corral, selling them, the hardships of the cowboy and a small part of romance.
I won't give this stars because I could see it being enjoyable for others. For me, maybe a couple stars, but then I didn't give it a chance. Well, I gave it a quarter of the way in kind of chance. It just couldn't reach me. I don't care about the characters and the short sentences are continually tripping me up, like I was walking along railroad tracks. Didn't I already use that comparison before, somewhere else? I need to make up a phrase to describe that. This writing was too clattering short punchy for me.
Great novel..I choose the rating because it is fine literature.
I've read numerous western authors and Zane Grey is one of the finest.
He doesn't attempt to include historical accuracy so the books are purely fictional.
I do believe scenic descriptions are a product of his extensive travels and are quite accurate.
He is probably the tops when he describes scenery.
Zane Grey will still be read By many more generations.
Three generations of my family have read loved him.
By the time I was 18 I had read every book of his that was published.
Now at age 70 I'reading them again.
I think I just loved the way this man viewed his life. I felt like I was in his mind. His love for his family, his mother and father, the girl of his dreams, his work ethic, and the hope and vision he had while living an imperfect life, was spun in a way that kept me interested, and turning pages (figuratively on my kindle). So happy to have discovered Zane Grey. I will be reading more of his writing.
great story like all of Zane Grey's westerns, revolved around an honorable man defending his honor and those he loves and respects. however, this novel lacked a lot of the landscape descriptions that I have grown to love and expect from Grey. There was some beautiful prose here and there describing the valleys an open homesteads of the west, but not enough for a 4 star rating. I don't think any can beat Riders of the Purple Sage. but still well worth the read.
Zane Grey is a favorite author of mine, and an excellent storyteller of the old west. His books can bring the west in your mind just like a movie, His story here is a classic and I enjoyed every word! A really great read!
Having recently moved to Salinas, CA I decided to give this genre a try. I could've gone for a more mainstream offer but this one was free to my new kindle. Although thin and simple I have to say that I really enjoyed it. I have since decided to read more Gray and perhaps branch out into others of this genre. Now I need a horse.
I was going to be away from home and needed a book to read, so downloaded this one to my kindle...and it reminded me again of how much I enjoy westerns, especially Zane Grey. I used to read him when I was a kid.One note: When the characters swear, they say, "____ ____ ____!" Quaint, yet refreshing.
Classic Zane GreyOne of the best of Zane Grey's books. Love Panhandle Smith and his determination to make things right for his family, most especially his dad. Could have kept reading
I feel I've been a limited reader since I seldom pick up a western novel. This one was actually pretty good. Zane Grey is a good writer, and I liked this book. I suspect the plot line and character development are typical of other books in this genre, but nevertheless, it was enjoyable and light.
Excellent writer. A good story well written with suspense on nearly every page.Zane grey is an excellent writer. this is a good story well written with suspense on nearly every page. I recommend it.
