https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40776219-lord-peter-views-the-body
Sherlock Holmes, Nero Wolfe, Hercule Poirot can beat Lord Peter Wimsey with their right hands tied behind their backs in terms of being interesting characters.
It looks like there are three Lord Peter Wimseys around - two too many.
Which one is the genuine article?"The Learned Adventure of the Dragon's Head".Lord Peter Wimsey stumbled upon a clue to a lost inheritance.
"The Unsolved Puzzle of the Man with No Face".Lord Peter Wimsey practically solves the murder by listening to its discussion by random people.
Lord Peter Wimsey had Number One. Just like other famous detectives he managed to beat his arch-enemy at the end.
The third short story in the book contains a crossword puzzle laid out by a clever old man in his will.
She is a crossword puzzle fanatic and no-one can come near her for cracking the toughest puzzles.However, somehow Lord Peter and the two people working with him on the puzzle did find the answer to the blank puzzle pictured in the story.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book of short stories and novellas and for people who may be interested in the series but not certain, this would be a good place to start!
Although I am not really a fan of short stories – much preferring novels – I wanted to re-read the Lord Peter Wimsey books and realised that I had never read this collection.
These are lots of fun, wonderfully written puzzles and you feel that no criminal could remain unmasked with Lord Peter Wimsey on the case!
2.5*I like Peter and Bunter but the stories in this collection were lacking something - either the development of other characters or a hook. I stand by my hypothesis that some authors are great at creating novels but can't quite transfer the same skill to short stories or - without referring to the format - simply shorter stories.Still, some fun adventures with Peter.Now on to the next Wimsey novel...
As a result, I approached this book innocently assuming I would encounter another full-length Peter Wimsey adventure to delight in.
I'm glad it worked out this way, however, because I rarely choose to read short stories voluntarily, and these were just as delightful as Peter's full-length exploits.I find myself spending each review of a Sayers book comparing her favourably with her more famous contemporary, Agatha Christie.
He's serious when he has to be, a little distant (a result of the Great War, his uncle tells us in Sayers' appendix to the newer printings of all Wimsey books), self-deprecating and just bloody funny.
Actual rating: 3.5 stars, but rounded up to 4 because I just appreciate Dorothy Sayers so much.I hadn’t realized that this was a book of short stories, but I enjoyed being able to read a little bit, put it down to do something else, and return when I was done, not having to worry that I’d forget some crucial detail in the meanwhile.
I’m also enjoying Peter Wimsey’s evolution over the course of these books—he started out a bit dim, rather like Wodehouse’s Bertie Wooster, but he has gradually become much more like an Agatha Christie protagonist or Conan Doyle’s Holmes, being able to put the puzzle pieces together faster than the average person, when the picture is still a bit hazy.
I'm not the hugest fan of short stories, although several of these were entertaining. I needed a book with a vest on the cover for a challenge, which is why I selected this to read - I already had it on my kindle from a Peter Wimsey binge buy when the prices dropped to $1.99 each.
This book contains 12 mysteries featuring Dorothy Sayers' famous sleuth, Lord Peter Wimsey and each was unique in its own right and all were interesting and entertaining.
I've grown to like Lord Peter very much as I've begun to explore this series.
It all depends on how quickly the author can get into the story and grab your attention and then come to a satisfying resolution.
Dorothy Sayers succeeded with this much to my satisfaction.
Lord Peter is such a wonderful character and the stories helped develop his character even more.
He loves a mystery, loves to snoop and explore diverse situations, and is intelligent at coming up with logical solutions.
A number of the stories play with themes which are central in Lord Peter Wimsey novels published during the 1930s: for example, how a person found on a beach could have been murdered when there is only one set of footsteps to be found in the sand comes up again in Have His Carcase, which was published in 1932.
This short story collection is highly recommended for anyone who enjoys the novels of Dorothy L Sayers and is a fan of Golden Age British crime fiction.
Anyone who hasn't read Sayers would be better advised to start with the novels and casual readers should know the following.
Sayers’ mystery I brace myself to be disappointed in case she slips in some quality about him which has to be endured rather than admired.
Lord Peter Views the Body is a collection of nine mini-mysteries each involving a body—or parts thereof—resulting from suspected murder or foul play.
In addition to going back in time, the cases transport you all over England (geographically) and a few other places as well: from bathing along the south coast of England on bank holiday in The Unsolved Puzzled of the Man with No Face to fishing in Scotland in The Piscatorial Farce of the Stolen Stomach.
On to Hangman's Holiday: A Collection of Short Mysteries!
Je pensais me traîner péniblement à travers ce recueil (que j'ai lu juste parce que je veux passer à travers toute la série), parce que tsé, les murder mysteries format nouvelles -- mais je me suis beaucoup amusée. Quelques scénarios convenus, beaucoup d'exubérance, des huis clos & des portes verrouillées de l'intérieur, & une seule petite histoire tellement mauvaise qu'elle en est gênante : ce serait difficile de demander un meilleur ratio.
It hurts to give Miss Sayers and Lord Peter only three stars, but I know it's my own fault.
I simply don't care for the short story format, particularly when Lord Peter is such a Deus Ex Machina in that form.
Again, some mild racism (anti-Scots and anti-Italian particularly) is put into the mouths of Wimsey and Parker; whether this reflects the author's personal view, or simply to show ideas of the time, I don't know.I got the impression that Miss Sayers used the short stories to try out ideas that would later appear in full-length works.
This was a re-read for me.
I'd forgotten just how much I enjoyed some of these stories.
As I read them, I remembered most of them from previous read (s).
The final story reminded me very much of Patricia Wentworth's Grey Mask in her Miss Silver stories.
(grumble, grumble.
autocorrect is going to kill me yet.) The story before that looked like a precursor to Sayers' own Have His Carcase.
Both the story and the novel start much the same but do take different paths.
I think I first read this in the '80s and I have never forgotten them.
Лорд Питър е скучаещ млад благородник надарен с остър ум, който използва за да разкрива чудновати престъпления в Англия и по света, в началото на ХХ век.Има попадения в този сборник с разкази, но като цяло не съм впечатлен и оставям лорда и верния му мултифункционален иконом на мира. :)
A delightful collection of short stories featuring Dorothy Sayers' wonderful gentleman detective, Lord Peter Wimsey. Like Sherlock Holmes, Wimsey uses what he sees, the actions of the people involved and keen perception and figures out just what happened, why and by whom. A pure delight
Wimsey proves himself frivolous enough to decipher it."The Fantastic Horror of the Cat in the Bag": A high-speed motorcyclist gets a nasty surprise when he opens a bag picked up from a cloak room."The Unprincipled Affair of the Practical Joker": Wimsey uses a lovely bit of sleight of hand to silence a blackmailer."The Undignified Melodrama of the Bone of Contention": Wimsey delves into the mystery of the death coach--a ghostly coach pulled by headless white horses and driven by a headless coachman."The Vindictive Story of the Footsteps That Ran": His lordship solves a murder by noticing which way the footsteps ran."The Bibulous Business of a Matter of Taste": Will the real Lord Peter please stand up?
"The Undignified Melodrama of the Bone of Contention," was probably the most interesting, and I enjoyed the interaction between Lord Peter and his young nephew in "The Learned Adventure of the Dragon's Head."One thing's certain, those who are sensitive about gruesome crimes might find a few of the stories off-putting—several times Sayers goes for the most macabre and bizarre incidents, though mercifully she does leave most of it to the reader's imagination rather than indulging in graphic description.
And I must say, there's some irony in Lord Peter speaking disparagingly of secret societies in detective fiction in the second-last story...and then plunging into as outlandish a secret-society plot as ever was in the final tale!
Incidentally, he speaks fluent German too.In The Bibulous Business of a Matter of Taste, possibly my favorite story in the book, Wimsey successfully guesses the names and years of a series of particular vintages in order to obtain war-time intelligence.
In fact, that is probably the best thing about the books, they offer a real window of British society in the early twentieth century, The realism is palpable, and forms a great contrast to some of the other authors of the time, who tended to create very idealized world with stereotypical characters, like Agatha Christie or P.G Wodehouse.
Most of these are silly and not worth it, although I did enjoy the one with the crossword will featuring Lord Peter's sister (#3), the one with a deep-rooted sibling rivalry and nice village atmosphere (#5), the weird one with the stomach and diamonds (#10) and the one with the portraitist and guy with no face (#11).
Apparently The Adventurous Exploit of the Cave of Ali Baba (#12) is essential for getting the overall Lord Peter Wimsey plot, but it's one of the absurdest things I've ever read and I found the vaguely Bolshevik vibes to be really odd.
Christopher Fowler perfectly summarized the Lord Peter Wimsey Experience thusly:I first encountered Sayers in a way that could have put me off for life, reading The Nine Tailors too young.
After you've read that novel you'll know what a Kent Treble Bob Major is, but more importantly the weight of her research makes the story far more enjoyable.
Who doesn't like a well-written essay on something they knew little about?This, in conjunction with Lord Peter's undeniable and multifarious charms, is what makes these books so fun: their wholeheartedness.
Sayers joins Christie and Doyle in knocking out a collection of short stories for her detective character, Lord Peter Wimsey. The short-story form appears to have been very popular with authors 'of the day', presumably the stories were generally published individually in magazines before being collected. Again,  Lord Peter Views the Body , took me by surprise as I hadn't read any of the reviews of blurb before starting; I was assuming another full-length novel. A pleasant surprise nonetheless, a
Sayers joins Christie and Doyle in knocking out a collection of short stories for her detective character, Lord Peter Wimsey.
A pleasant surprise nonetheless, as this is a truly excellent collection of short-stories – there isn't a 'dud' anywhere in there.Not all the stories are murders, not all of them are even always crimes; but each time Sayers perfectly captures her Wimsey.
Whereas they have to drag their pet through each detection like a teacher with a particularly stupid (but likeable) child, Bunter is there with Wimsey each time.
Will also post, sometime, a review of that larger compilation volume.These early Wimsey short stories are entertaining, if rather old-fashioned, all strongly plotted and superbly crafted, with many of her usual characters but each has an edge and a sharply succinct quality that makes the reading fly along.
— Wimsey as a “regular guy” burglar, one of the best storiesIn 1928 LORD PETER VIEWS THE BODY, not in audio:The Entertaining Episode of The Article in Question— old-fashioned locked room burglary with tricky French twistThe Fascinating Problem of Uncle Melanger's Will— crosswords hold the clue, as do avaricious nephewsThe Learned Adventure of the Dragon's Head— Peter as Uncle Peter, old books, burglary and pirate's treasure; one of my all-time fave stories
3.5 stars.
These are entertaining, but nothing spectacular.
Easily the best is the one with ten year old Saint George Wimsey (Lord Peter is a sort of fabulous uncle).
I enjoyed them.
I would have gone four stars, but someone is going to have to explain to me exactly when Lord Peter had time to fake his death for two years...It seems a random sort of a thing to chuck in a short story is all I'm saying.
Perhaps his timeline takes it into account, but it threw me a bit.
I was all for having him fake his death, but two years?
A jumble of Lord Peter short stories. A few of them were quite contrived but then that's kind of the point, I guess?
Lord Peter Views the Body is a collection of short stories.
It seems that we die as we have lived, my dear."My absolute favorite was The Learned Adventure of the Dragon's Head, a treasure-hunt Lord Peter embarks upon while looking after his 10-year old nephew.
Lord Peter calls him by the pet name of Gherkins, a progressive corruption of Gerald "Jerry, Jerrykins, Pickled Gherkins." Gherkins picks up an old book in a dusty bookshop and purchases it.
The book contains the clues to the location of the treasure, hidden 200 years previously by a seaman.(The story also references a "Chinese pagoda, somewhat resembling Sir William Chambers's erection in Kew Gardens" -- I've been there!!!
“Built noticin’--improved with practice.”This anthology of early Wimsey shorts reminds me why I hate anthologies.
Authors (or, more likely, publishers) sweep up all the bits and pieces of a successful author or authors and foist it on the public as great literature.
The resulting collection is often--as in this case--mediocre at best.“Nobody minds coarseness, but one must draw the line at cruelty.”Especially avoid the novelette: “The Undignified Melodrama of the Bone of Contention.” Dreadful.
“The Fascinating Problem of Uncle Meleager’s Will” will enthrall crossword puzzle enthusiasts, without leaving the rest of us clueless.“Bunter likes me to know my place.”Sayers wrote for different readers.
The Lord Peter Wimsey books by Sayers are all really good. I may have read every one of the books and short stories. This is a collection of 12 short stories.I enjoy Lord Peter much more than Sherlock or Hercule. Sayers was a talented author.
Didn't realize this was a collection of short stories! They were all so great. I have a *huge* literary crush on L.P.D.B.W., it's becoming a problem.
I listened to the audiobook. I thought it was very disappointing. I have watched the TV and DVD versions for years and loved them. So I was really excited to find audio versions of new stories. But the book really is not as good as the television shows. In this particular book, the last third of the book is quite good, the second third is fairly good, and I didn’t think the first third was any good at all. Very disappointing.
(hide spoiler)]The Entertaining Episode of the Article in Question (view spoiler)[ - Lord Peter Wimsey accidentally overhears something that helps him catch a famous jewelry thief.
(hide spoiler)]The Fascinating Problem of Uncle Meleager’s Will (view spoiler)[ Wimsey's sister Mary has a friend who needs help finding a hidden will.
(hide spoiler)]The Bibulous Business of a Matter of Taste (view spoiler)[ starts with a man who is aware he is being pursued by Lord Peter Wimsey.
(hide spoiler)]The Unsolved Puzzle of the Man with No Face (view spoiler)[ The decision Lord Peter Wimsey makes in the end of this story might surprise you.
