https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55414.Overlord
Hastings has a unique talent for testimonials with the battle history. Literally. Whereas LynnMacDonald & Peter Hart merely insert eyewitness accounts into the battle history (which tends to frame the eyewitness accounts rather than the other way around), Hastings gives a technical fact about Panzers followed by two sentences from a contemporary, without interrupting the flow. As a result, his OVERLORD can hold his own as a study of strategy & tactis in the Normandy campaign, enlivened by the words of those who served.
So far this is my favorite book on the subject because Hastings does not favor any side in his analysis. Instead, he points out mistakes made by all sides. The reader comes away with the idea that the Germans were masters of the tactical battlefield, but strategically incompetent.
By assigning superior recruits to the Air Force or the other combat arms, the infantry received far less talented personnel, and their performance showed.He is especially critical of the performance of the British and American Air Forces.
They also absorbed a major portion of both talented recruits and industrial production.Hastings is also critical of specific Allied weapons, such as the Sherman tank.
In his critique of Allied ground combat weapons, he is strangely muted in praise of the Garand M-1.
Essentially, I think his overall point about the superiority of German arms is well taken, but only to a point.
So to this end, I thoroughly found Overlord to be a compelling retelling and analysis of the famed battle.The issues I took up with Hastings writing style in his previous book, namely his absolute intensity of analysis and disputes with previously popular notions, became an absolute positive in this edition.
Tied with his expert use of sources throughout the pages of his book and his trademark essayist style of writing, Max Hastings’ Overlord pushes itself in my own opinion to the best book written on the subject of Normandy since The Longest Day, surpassing perhaps even that.I’ll no doubt start with my favorite aspect of the book, its composition.
Opera in realtà del 1982 , risente, parte finale del periodo della Guerra fredda in cui fu scritta, 
Most of the book, and most of the fighting was in the hedgerows in the Battle for Normandy, and this is really the focus of the book.Highly recommended, with a couple of nits:Hastings mentions other classics that cover areas more comprehensively, so he spends little time on most difficult landing at Omaha Beach.
Pont du Hoc, where the Rangers scaled the heights isn't mentioned at all until a few chapters later when in one sentence he states that they still held the area at +5 days.The book is well written, and the maps are very detailed, but there is a lack of coordination between the excellent writing and the great maps.
A very good account of the Normandy campaign, from the successful landings on June 6, through the two months of bloody warfare of attrition in the bocages of France, to the breakouts by the Americans that finally broke the German resistance in France.
Casualty rates above 100% were common in units on both sides.Hastings is not enthusiastic about the performance of Americans and British.
Generals at the top made decisions both good and bad but in Hastings view, with the army they had, avoiding the brutal slog was likely impossible.There’s an interesting take on Montgomery’s self destructive behavior.
Hastings lays the blame for the slow advance on Allied deficiencies in all material except artillery and air power (my father would have conceded only tanks, and especially the American refusal to up gun Shermans), tactics, and, to some extent leadership and motivation (Allied forces fighting a war they felt they could win via superior resources vs.
Hastings argument seems sound, though he does not concentrate enough on the motivation or tactics but more on the Germans training and soldierly qualities.
Or maybe he would have just proclaimed the American Army and Air Force deficient as compared to his beloved Marines.
Subsequently, any new article or work on the subject, will always struggle to offer any new insights.
Unlike some of his peers, and the prevalent post war jingoism, Hastings takes the view that the German army was a superior fighting force to the Western Allies.
On the downside, however, Hastings fails to highlight that for all their fighting prowess and tactical skill, a war of attrition doomed the German army to defeat in Normandy.
As has been famously quoted, a Tiger tank was worth ten Shermans, but the Americans always had eleven...Despite this, Overlord is a powerful piece of historical writing, and the descriptions of the struggle at the Faliase gap, are amongst this book's strengths.
Hastings' book complements excellently Antony Beevor's more recent history of the Normandy campaign.
Like Beevor he covers the D Day campaign from inception to the Allied break out but, unlike the more recent publication, dwells only fleetingly on the terrible effect of the battles of the Norman non-combatants and the deaths of Allied troops from friendly fire.
Hastings, on the other hand, gives superb descriptions of the troops, weaponry and state of mind of the Germans and the Allies, as well as lengthy passages of the conflict between Montgomery and the American Generals.Read both books and Ben McIntyre's book on Plan Fortitude and you have all you need to know about one of the greatest land battles in history.David Lowther.
Max Hasting's account of the first months of the Allies invasion of France is outstanding.
Wht Hastings does, however, is to dissect the invasion, and the decisions of command in the field during the subsequent months.
One of the things Doug has told me was that they were deathly afraid of the American and British air support during the march to Paris.
He said they would rather see the Luftwaffe, because they knew the German planes would shoot at them.
When they saw American planes, they were never sure if they would be bombed or strafed by their own - and they eventually came to think that they would.
well written military historian's account of Overlord / battle for normandy. hastings draws upon his personal experience as a military officer to offer a cogent, tightly-written account of one of the most famous attacks in Western history.
War is a mess, people make mistakes, horrible things happen, the side with the most stuff wins, no matter who has the best weapons, strategy, or soldiers.
This is an excellent addition to the many histories that have been written about D-Day and the invasion of Normandy by the American, British and Canadian forces on June 6, 1944.
His conclusions include: -- in any head-to-head encounter between the Allied armies and the Germany army of equal force, the German soldiers proved to be superior - they were more disciplined, more devoted to the fight, had superior weapons.
Although the tanks and arms may not have matched those of the Germans, the Allies had access to far greater supplies.
In general I enjoy this book since as per usual , Max Hastings gives an unbiased view of the campaign while also writing a balanced book between the story of the ordinary soldier and the grand strategic and political conflicts of the general staffs.However I found that a few of the quotes from various witnesses of the campaign that Max Hastings included in the book seemed to lack relevance or connection to the actions or argument they were intended to support.I also deducted another star due to a few minor factual or what I believe is a sloppy or off hand comment.For example the author makes a small mention that is somewhat critical about the deployment of the Mulberry harbour’s and how Mulberry harbour A was destroyed in the storm of June the 19th-21st.
another very good book from one of this country's pre eminent military historians, and well worth reading.
This is a story that should be more well known than it actually is, but it has been lost in the commonly used compression of history that makes up World War 2: the war starts, Dunkirk, The Battle of Britain, the desert, D Day, the end, with the odd loose end tied up here and there (the bomber offensive, the Battle of the Atlantic)...
I eagerly began this book, having read Armageddon, also by Hastings, and I have to say, I was disappointed.
The information comes in spurts, much like a car being driven by someone not familiar with using a clutch.
The writing itself is nowhere near the level Hastings has achieved in his later books.
It took me over 2 months to finish it, where as I finished Armageddon in a week and a half.
For once I can say, read Stephen Ambrose's "D Day".
It's an easier read giving all the same information in an easier to digest format.
The book "Overlord: D-Day and the battle for Normandy" story is a very tough and gruesome story of the greatest amphibious landing every staged by the British and the U.S. This was a very bloody day, men road to the shore on landing craft and would be shot by german machine gun fire shortly after.
When they got there they had to blow a path in the barbwire field to be able to stop the machine gun fire.
This day had a total of 425,000n deaths between german and allied forces and will always be remembered in history.
I gave this book four stars.It is a Comprehensive account of the D-Day invasion and the battle for Normandy which saved the west. The author provided a balanced account of the battle. I really enjoyed the personal accounts of the battle from both individual soldiers from both the Allies and the Germans. I did think that the author was overly critical of the Allied efforts during the battle. I would also have liked to see more maps to help the reader track the battle. I would recommend this book to other readers like me who are interested in history.
An excellent history of Overlord. Provides a thorough military history of the campaign from both sides perspective (with more detail for the Allies) and a good exploration of the individual's experience as well. Critically, the book also includes a thorough exploration of the Allied strategic and operational planning before the campaign. This provided useful context and understanding and was invaluable.
Gripping account of one of the most important actions of WWII, and therefore of any battle anywhere.Good mix of ‘high level’ military strategy and ‘view from the ground’ battlefield tactics. Brings out the importance of physical geography, motivation and politics; as well as the expected emphasis on training, equipment, leadership.Endlessly fascinating.
Another great WW2 history from Mr Hastings in his usual style. A very good read covering the lead up to D-Day and the push through Normandy up to the end of August. As much as I liked this book I think (personal opinion) that Anthony Beevor's later D-Day: The Battle For Normandy is the better.Recommended for anyone with an interest in WW2 or specifically D-Day itself.
Ordinarily I love Max Hastings' books, but this one was kind of a disappointment.It almost felt like Hastings said, "Well, I have to do a book on D-Day, and D-Day has been done to death, so let's get it over with."And while he got beyond the official record, I don't feel like he got as much narrative power into this book as he has with his others.
Clear Eyed ViewThere are fewer heroes in this balanced appraisal of the allied attacks of the summer of 1944. The genius of the allies and the US was organizational, not tactical. It is an important read to help reflect on our current attitudes toward the military and the use of force. We need to be more modest about our capabilities versus our current enemies.
Fantastic insight to all the operations My limited understanding of D Day has now been expanded and now with some realisation of what the men of both armies went through truly shocking
An excellent overview which starts with the preparations leading up to the D Day invasion, and ending the escape of the shattered remnants of the Axis Army 2 months later. The book mixes in details on the various campaigns with chapters about intelligence, weaponry, and so on.
Exemplary military historyMax Hastings writes fluently with cogent analysis. This is not the most modern account of Overlord and its aftermath, but it is a classic account which is still worth reading.
My goodness, what a cornucopia of information that passed other researchers by. It doesn't just cover D-Day but also the WHOLE battle for Normandy.
deep informative
Heavy going but I suspect that was just me !!
