https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28507.Serpent_Mage
You know, whenever I'm lucky enough to find a reasonably literate person who has read some fantasy novels, I'm always surprised by the fact that - as far as I can recall - none of them have read The Death Gate Cycle.
Granted, I had some holdover nostalgia from the Dragonlance Chronicles for Weis and Hickman, and so I probably had more cause to read them than most, but, even solely on their own merits, these are really excellent books.
The real mastery, though, is in the novels' 5 distinct - geographically, sociologically, politically, ethnically - worlds.
I don't know what possessed them to draw out the meanderings of the uninteresting mortal characters for so long with so little action.We do learn a great deal about the Sundering, the means by which the 4 fascinating mortal realms were created.
Previously cast in the role of hero, his evil impulse and designs guide much of the story, partly because he is deprived of his dog (clearly a metaphorical and physical manifestation of his soul, though they are canny enough never to come out and say so).I hope this is the only dud in a great series, but being as I remember very little of books 5-7, I fear they may not be very ...

Think about that for a minute: the human inhabitants of the chosen world are black, and they are there because they were deemed "superior" by their demi-god patrons!
And the main human character is specifically described as the most beautiful female Haplo has ever encountered.
Again, think about that: the most beautiful woman in the FIVE EXTANT WORLDS is black.
What is more, the fact that these humans are black is barely mentioned aside from a few lines at the beginning of the book and individual descriptions of three individual characters -- by the time you reach the half-way point, you simply read the word "human" and imagine a black person.
Bon tome dans la continuité des autres mais que j'ai trouvé un peu plus longuet à se mettre en place.Voir les personnages réaliser qu'ils ont changé, voir leurs réactions face à de nouvelles situations compliquées était vraiment agréable.Le monde de l'eau est encore un monde fascinant à découvrir et le trio des mensch était vraiment sympa.
On sent qu'au final sans qu'ils s'en rendent compte ces deux personnages opposés, Alfred et Happlo, sont bien plus proches désormais.Leur lien et leur histoire fait la force de ces livres et on finit encore en voulant absolument lire la suite.
Het avontuur van Haplo en Alfred gaat door, deze keer op de laatste van de 4 werelden Chelestra.
Het verhaal focust meer op Haplo, die deze keer in aanraking komt met een nog levende kolonie Sartanen die meer over het verleden weten dan ze willen laten doorschemeren.
Ook komt er een nieuwe vijand bij die mogelijk nog gevaarlijker is en die geen duidelijke oorsprong heeft.
De hele geschiedenis en wereld van de poort des doods is soms ingewikkeld, maar ik blijf toch weer lezen hoe het verder gaat.
Het verhaal heeft ook een open einde dus deel 5 staat weer klaar om gelezen te worden.
This book, more so than the others in the series, was a 'bridge' book, versus one that could stand on its own as a complete story.
I had to exert all my self-control and will to enter this review (and the one for book 3!) before hurtling ahead in this series.
I very much appreciated the portrayal of the mensch on this world (as it's definitely the most positive of the worlds), and enjoyed the device of Grundle's journal in telling the story from a different perspective.
I heart Dog, maybe the most.As the series develops, a few of the larger themes become clearer to me - racism, domination/subjugation, self-righteousness, religion and the existence of a higher power.
Review is for entire series.Re-readThe Deathgate Cycle is one of my favorite series ever.
high fantasy perfection.
It's one of few series that really go into HOW the magic of the world works.
And the primary protagonist, Haplo, is one of my favorites ever.
Maybe my very favorite.
- And the plot is perfect and perfectly executed.
Everything about this series is just...
Unless to say that I'd like another 7 books.
This book was just as good today as the first time I read way back in like...
1991 [ETA: probably like 1993 for SM] or so.
This fourth book in the series is the first one to have a weaker holdon my interest.
Once again, though, a very unique world is created.
This even after the illustrations of cross sections and the descriptions in the Appendix.The story with respct to the characters of Chelstra wasn't all that captivating, but there are revelations to be had in how the four worlds interrelate.
This is still a very interesting series, and I'm still enjoying Halpo and Alfred a lot.
I'm still with it, but here's hoping the next book will be more gripping.

The series definitely reached its highest point so far in this volume, for me, and I found myself drawn deeply into the story once again. The originality of this series really makes it stand out, and the amount of planning that must have gone into it is astounding. With each volume, mysteries are being revealed while more are coming to light, pushing me to keep reading just a few more pages. This is what epic fantasy is really meant to be.
The deeper entrenched into this story I get, the more impressed I become with how the authors have managed to create such a fantastic tale. With every book it gets more and more complicated while still never losing sight of the few, basic, simple themes at its core. This book is just as fantastic as the previous 3, and anyone who likes a great story with amazingly complex characters needs to read this series.
The fourth entry in the Death Gate Cycle series takes us to Chelestra, a water world. Like the first three books in the series, Serpent Mage features an interesting fantasy setting and as the middle book in the saga, continues to push Haplo further towards his ultimate destiny. 3 stars.
Pure awesomeness!!! I really love this series, and I highly recommend it. I can hardly wait for the next one. So, go ahead and pick up all seven books in the bundle. I promise you, you will not be sorry you did!
This one is pure magic. This book is where everything starts making sense and is the start of the sagas second and final period. Where all characters come to terms with what lies ahead. Really engaging.
Seriously these books are getting better and better. Although I do highly recommend to anyone reading this series that they have the 5th book on hand when they finish the 4th. This book does not end as the others do, with a true ending, this is more of a cliff hanger.
The book has its good points and bad but it's not a book that'll make readers want to read more, find out more about what's going to happen with a character (except, possibly Alfred) First, I'll start with why this book didn't feel good- There was no story even after completing 60% of the book.
(But I think this maybe because he's lost much of his instinctive side which led him to avoid hurt someone without reason after being left alone without the dog) One of the things that doesn't fit at all is that no mensch ruler ever doubts Haplo.
There are five representatives and not a single one questions Haplo's ideas.Things I like about this bookAlfred, Alfred and Orla's relation.
But the mensch aren't the only inhabitants of this world – Sartan are also awakened from their deep slumber, and another, more sinister and devastating power.
Just like in previous installments, the authors aren't afraid to kill some of their characters which makes the danger that much real and the stakes that much higher.Personally, I can give nothing but praise for this book.
If you enjoyed the previous installments (especially the first one), you will like this one too.The book ending is a little weird though.
But regardless of that, I'm jumping right on the next one in the series!I will end this review with a wonderful quote from the book.
After a somewhat lacklustre third entry, Weis and Hickman play to their strengths in 'Serpent Mage'.
These factors are cleverly blended with the strong Death Gate scenario, brimming with originality and ideas.
The setting does not overshadow the plot, with less premable and backstory than previous entries - Haplo's journey is central to the action and mayhem.
Good characterisation and clever use of narrative styles create an engaging story, utilising the Death Gate scenario to almost reinvent an old angle.
At times the story seems a little forced, with some trite dialogue and clumsy foreboding, however overall Serpent Mage is a worthwhile and inventive read.
This series definitely has to be read in order to make any sense of anything going on.
Haplo seems to be growing in to his own person, Alfred is becoming clearer as a character, with the appearance of the original council of Sartans, and then there's the Dog. The series starts out with the good Sartans, the bad Patryns, and the mensch that war among themselves unaware of these magical godlike beings.
However the reader gets a totally different point of view by this fourth installment, as to who's evil and who is not, as true colors show when demon snakes make their appearance.
This installment of the death gate cycle had some heavy and fantastic character development for both Alfred and Haplo.
Chelestra, the world of water, is fascinatingly built and thought up, what I expect from Hickman and Weis.
Alfred unites with his people as he has desired but does he desire it?
Haplo is near his goal of stirring destruction in all four worlds but is there an even greater enemy in the four realms?
Is the One something they can believe in?
Can a Patryn and a Sartan be allies?
This book sets up a very interesting direction for the next three books.
My comments for the individual books follow:Vol. 1 -- Dragon Wing: This book covers the exploration of Arianus: the realm of Air. It introduces us to the two main characters (Haplo and Alfred) and many of the recurring characters throughout the series.
So, while reading the book, you constantly have this little voice in the back of your mind going "what's happening with Alfred?" Irritating.Vol. 6 -- Into the Labyrinth: This book ranges across just about all of the worlds of the Death Gate.
In Fire Sea, Haplo and Alfred use such a spell to replicate enough food for a large group of people.
I enjoyed this 4th installment a lot. We get to see deeper into the characters of Haplo and Alfred and learn more about the Sartan. While this is mostly a self-contained story, it definitely feels more like the set up to what happens next than the other books up to this point. This one's ending felt more like a cliffhanger than any of the other books up to this point.
Also very good—Haplo’s surprising weakness in this new environment, paired with the almighty, eerily prescient snakes, makes for a refreshing serial. Grundle the dwarf princess is also an enjoyable narrator.
Esta saga no acaba de convencerme. El desarrollo de los libros me parece un poco lenta, pero al final te deja con ganas de saber cómo sigue. Aún así, me está costando demasiado tiempo leer cada uno de ellos.
The 4th of the world's in the death gate visited. We learn more about the overall creation and characters continue to develop with the Sartan people introduced. Still trying to figure out, what's with the dog?
Interesting book, but the number of characters and plot lines made it less interesting to me than the previous ones.
One of the best in the 7 book series. Definitely my favorite so far.
Aun sigo pensando que mi favorito es el 2do libro, ahora si la historia verdadera de los Sartan y los Patrin va agarrando forma, me encanto. 😍
The series redeemed itself after the average 3rd book. Will keep reading.
