https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/857418.The_Carrot_Seed
The plot of this one is, some kid tries to grow a carrot and everyone shits on him.
"That'll never work," say his parents.
But the kid waters it and - wait for it - it grows!
Of course it grows, it's a fucking carrot.
Do you know how easy it is to grow a carrot?
So the lesson here isn't so much "Believe in yourself" as "You're surrounded by assholes," which is true but I don't know that my kid needs a book to rub it in for him.
He hangs around with me a lot; he probably already knows.
A simple lesson on growth; both external and internal, and how faith can translate into action. Remember this book from my childhood...happy to come across it again.
Although I have most definitely enjoyed the main and fundamental messages presented in Ruth Krauss' classic picture book The Carrot Seed (and that although The Carrot Seed was first published over sixty years ago, in 1945, the concept of the little boy, the diminutive gardener, sticking to his proverbial guns, believing that his planted carrot seed will one day indeed become a carrot, no matter what the naysayers, no matter what his family claims to the contrary, is as important, as cheering and yes indeed as fresh now as it was then), I cannot really claim that Crocket Johnson's accompanying illustrations are all that much to my personal liking.
The obvious question when reading this book is whether the bumps on the boy's head is his hair or just a lumpy head.
Although this boy's gardening skills have come into serious question, I still don't appreciate the lack of support from the family.
The one bright spot in the book is the boy's resilience and dedication to this carrot.
Plus, the carrot looks more pink than orange in the book.
I'm starting to think the little boy really is an alien with superhuman, gigantic, pink carrot growing skills.
I will be more cautious of little boys with lumps on their heads.
When sharing this story with children...Introduce the author and illustrator.
Mention that Crockett Johnson also made the Harold and the Purple Crayon books and I wonder if the father in this story (turn to page that pictures the father) is Harold all grown up.
Stretch the story by miming the actions mentioned in the spare text.
Open one hand palm up and invite the children to do the same.
Say there’s a tiny seed in your hand and it is black.
Mime picking weeds (count to five).
Mime watering the seed, “whoops, not too much!”.
Lamby (5) especially enjoyed this one.
The Carrot Seed shows young children how to grow plants, how to feed them and to check on them daily for a good expected outcome.
My Learning Experiences-Children will be able to plant their own plants within the classroom as a class, and we will feed them, water them, and check on them daily to keep records.
Once they are completed, they can take them home to show their families.-I will have children learn the different types of things to grow within a garden and how growing impants the food we eat today.
The storyline about "The Carrot Seed" is about a young child who never gives up on his seed.
One day the seed becomes a huge carrot.
The book is allowing the children to think about never giving up even if people don't support you.
The book gives hope and motivation.
the book does encourage self-esteem by letting them know they are able to do anything and they can accomplish many things at a young age.
I will encourage children to have faith and hope in anything they want even if it takes time because the reward at the end can bring so much happiness.
The carrot seed was another learning experience for me as a parent.
In the book the little boy plants a carrot seed and waits patiently for the carrot to grow.
In the book his whole family tells him that the carrot would not blossom but with perseverance, the carrot finally came up from the ground just as he was expecting.
I bet with the carrot growing as he was expecting, his self-esteem and confidence was restored.The learning experience would be to teach children that they can do anything they put their mind to it.
I really enjoyed this book because the little boy stuck true to his convictions and ended up being right!
Most books have families that are totally supportive of their kids, but not this book, which is okay.
The other characters were trying to be realistic, but the little boy was confident that a carrot would come up.
I think kids would love this book because it encourages them to believe in themselves.
I would definitely emphasize that if a kid really believes in something, to fight for it, even if everybody around them tells them otherwise.
The Carrot Seed was an excellent book! I used this book in my classroom when discussing with children the developmental cycle of a plant. By using hands on lessons and fun filled activities, this is definitely a book that all children will remember.
Faith & Perseverance....two traits I hope to instill in the hearts of my children. Love this story but the illustrations hold me back from a 5 star rating.
Nico made me read this book to him three times in a row. He would have read it all night if I didn't make him go to bed. Great classic children's book.
After reading this book, I planted so many carrot seeds!
Simple. Faith. Persistence. And that's all it takes. Great lesson.
Simplistic, crisp illustrations, timeless story. Written 1945.
I first read this book long ago. It is a classic picture book for a reason: it has a deceptively simple story and deceptively simple cartoon illustrations. The story basically teaches children to persevere in the face of adversity and to believe in oneself. And of course, this little boy's perseverance results in an oversize carrot. The colors are muted and somewhat drab until the page with the bright green carrot top and the page with the bright orange carrot. I expect it will remain a classic picture book for another 70 years or more.
Cute book about believing in something even when family tells you it's impossible.
Yup, this book is AWESOME!
A classic! Great way for kids to learn about patience, faith and believing in yourself.
My favorite childrens book!!! Love it! Read it!
The first book I borrowed from the library.I love the little boy who believe in himself.
nothing special , really!all his family thought his carrot seed wont grow but it finally didI guess the author wanted to tell how important it is to stand for your own believe, that's all
This is proven when it says, ”In a Sneering fashion they say It won’t come up, It won’t come up, It won’t come up.”.I also would recommend this book to people who are struggling with taunting, because they could relate to this book.An example is when it says “the boy stood strong like a young tree.”.SummaryIn the beginning, a boy plants a carrot seed.
This is proven when it says, ”In a Sneering fashion they say It won’t come up, It won’t come up, It won’t come up.”.I also would recommend this book to people who are struggling with taunting, because they could relate to this book.An example is when it says “the boy stood strong like a young tree.”.SummaryIn the beginning, a boy plants a carrot seed.
Both my boys know this story nearly verbatim by now...it is so hard to wait until something actually comes up in our garden!! Patience and persistence are the gentle gardening (and life!) lessons in this classic book.
I absolutely love love loved this book very much! It teaches kids perseverance and a little bit about science and how stuff grows, but mostly to never give up on what you believe will happen and I just love that message. The illustrations are very plain and sweet in this book but I love them, I feel it just feets to the story and I think every child needs to be read this book, it's simply AMAZING!
I love everything about this book .It reminds me of old times. I think children will respond supper good having a great picture book with a couple of words and the children can relate to plants in the summer time. If i ever read this book out loud i would make sure I get the kids involve a lot asking them what they see and just making sure they know how food can grow.
The Carrot Seed was part of a workshop I attended in August 2017. I certainly do not remember reading the book some eons ago myself. The simplicity of the book and message of believing in one's own abilities and faith inspired me to do the same. Continue to, believe me, my abilities and my goals. Doing so will yield rewards. What a positive message for our children in today's world!
The moral of this story is "keep on keepin' on." Or, "don't stop believing." Or "illegitimi non carborundum." Or "the power of positive thinking." Or "fuck off." Or "don't trust anyone over 30." Or "don't let the man keep you down." Or "I think I can, I think I can." Or "patience is a virtue." Or "Well done is better than well said." Or "the scorners delight in their scorning." Or "hope deferred maketh the heart sick, but when the desire" - or the carrot - "cometh it is the tree of life." Or "hope springs eternal."
Read at Baby/Toddler Story Time on 4/17/12: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Baby Lap Time on 4/4/13: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Toddler Lap Time on 4/4/13: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Toddler Lap Time on 4/5/13: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...
