https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8319129-celepha-s
St. Peter, Charon and Beelzebub sit at the table playing Dungeons and Dragons and discussing H.P. Lovecraft’s 1922 short story Celephaïs.Charon: I found it delightfully occult and with a bittersweet sense of longing that made me want to drop anchor.Beelzebub: This is why he belongs with us.Peter: You’re delusional, it is about a dream, he is dreaming and longing of heaven, of nirvana, of a place better than his world – it demonstrates his connection with the spiritual in a way more celestial than his usual arcane drudgery.Beelzebub: AND, and … because he cannot reach those lofty heights, because the dream is unattainable, you teaser of humanity, he takes to drugs and stimulants to achieve what is set in his mind by radical ideologists.
Written in 1920 when Lovecraft was thirty, “Celephais” resembles Lord Dunsany’s “The Coronation of Mr. Thomas Shap” (although their heroes’ fates differ considerably), and the tale is a fine example of Lovecraft’s Dunsanian style.It tells of a man named Kuranes—later visited by Randolph Carter on his “dream quest”--who midway through life, “the last of his family, and alone among the indifferent millions of London” begins to seek a better city in the land of his own dreams.
A wonderful, but a bittersweet dream story.Kuranes dreamed of a wonderful city of Celephaïs when he was a child.
He almost made it to a galley that was waiting in the harbour.Today he doesn't have any money, his lands are gone too, he doesn't like the contemporary life, but his dreams are more vivid with each new dreaming.
'The more he withdrew from the world about him, the more wonderful became his dreams;' The thing is, Kuranes realized that the stories from our childhood hold wonders.
The ending is both wonderful and sad.
Almost most of the story has wonderful imagery.
Many didn't like this but...damn! Makes me Love his Craft more than ever.
«(...) the foul thing that is reality»«There are not many persons who know what wonders are opened to them in the stories and visions of their youth; for when as children we listen and dream, we think but half-formed thoughts, and when as men we try to remember, we are dulled and prosaic with the poison of life.»«(...) that world of wonder which was ours before we were wise and unhappy»
Detta är två väldigt korta noveller och efter att ha läst dem så förstår jag varför de satts ihop i samma e-bok. De har väldigt mycket gemensamt, även om nu Azathoth sägs höra till Cthulhu-mytologin, vilket Celephaïs inte sägs göra. Båda rör sig i alla fall i drömmarnas värld. Läs mer på min blogg
Interesting enough. Typical Lovecraftian tale about fantastic dream cities.
Siempre que se menciona "donde el mar se junta con el cielo" siento unas cosquillas insoportables por todo el cuerpo.
El relato me pareció, y voy a inventarme una expresión para poder seguir la misma línea que el autor, "inimaginablemente increíble" (?), tan prodigioso e inaudito.*O* En serio, ¡hermoso!
No imagino como serán los otros libros del autor, seguramente tenga que leer algún otro para así poder convencerme que tiene un estilo admirable.
Por otra parte, pienso, y mirando hacia cierta persona, ¡¡cómo tienen que disfrutar los lectores de H.P. Lovecraft!!
Pues, ¡yo misma disfruté como nunca había disfrutado antes!
Many have wondered if dream life is primary and waking the secondary. Perhaps that's why the Dream Cycles are my favorites. Beautiful artistic wonder in the autobiographical eternity of an hour.(view spoiler)[True cosmic horror leaves the reader's perspective changed.Plus The Yellow King, Hastur of Leng. (hide spoiler)]
A short story by Lovecraft. This story is quite different from many other Lovecraft stories. The atmosphere is very relaxed and as many others have pointed out, bittersweet. I would say the story is actually romantic. So, not your usual Lovecraft but a nice little atmospheric read.
Story couldn't really keep my attention
But some of us awake in the night with strange phantasms of enchanted hills and gardens, of fountains that sing in the sun, of golden cliffs overhanging murmuring seas, of plains that stretch down to sleeping cities of bronze and stone, and of shadowy companies of heroes that ride caparisoned white horses along the edges of thick forests; and then we know that we have looked back through the ivory gates into that world of wonder which was ours before we were wise and unhappy.My husband loves the above quote & now I see why!
This melancholy fantasy tale read like a poem.
Here's another of Lovecraft's Dream Cycle stories. If you like Neil Gaiman's work, especially his Sandman stuff, then you'll probably enjoy this. It's tales like this one that really highlight the influence Lovecraft had on Gaiman. The concept of a whole other universe contained within our dreams is an intriguing concept. In the end it's more fantasy than horror, but it had its moments.
This is a fantasy tale by Lovecraft, it tells the story of the dreamer Kuranes who journeys to Celephais in the Ooth-Nargai Valley where no perception of time exists. He finally becomes ruler there after his death......
It was a nice break from the usual dark and twisted descriptions. I loved the pretty descriptions of the world.
What starts as a deep reflexion about beauty being found in childhood dreams if not in reality, lingers into one of those descriptions of Lovecraftian static landscapes.
The story is beautifully written - Lovecraft has a fantastic way with words - but the story and anonymous blank protagonist are not compelling. Disappointing.
P. LovecraftEste relato nos cuenta la aventura onírica de "Kuranes" que después de muchos años logra volver a la ciudad en sueños de Celephaïs.
Un escritor incomprendido, por que sus relatos son fuera de este mundo, y la gente sin ensoñación no son capases de ver lo que hay en ellos.Un hombre solo que sólo es feliz en sueños, y que la vida real se lo esta devorando poco a poco.
Un hombre que viaja por esplendidos lugares llenos de vida y fantasía, y también por lugares aterradores fuera de los confines del universo.
I don't really like Lovecraft, to be frank.
I think I have read enough of him to say that by now.
His writing is cumbersome and riddled with too much description, and his blatant racism shines through too often.Yet, something makes me want to read more.
The mythology that he has constructed is very fascinating, as I am in no way alone to think.
Celephais was mostly filled with adjectives, but it gave some hints to the nature of the dreaming worlds.
And that's pretty much the way it always is with Lovecraft for me - the story was inconsequential, but there were things that interested me as well.
Сни Куранеса завжди були чимось більшим за звичайні фантазії. Він подорожував дивними країнами, а одного разу набрів на Селефаїс - місто, яке він уже відвідував у дитинстві, але був змушений залишити, коли його розбудили. Тепер він повернувся в Селефаїс, а звідти на кораблі вирушив до країв, про які так багато чув. Але йому не судилося туди дістатися, він знову був розбуджений. Марно він намагався повернутися в Селефаїс, не допомагали навіть наркотики, допоки одного разу не закінчились гроші, він покинув дім і, ніким не бачений, знову зустрів бажане місто.
Cerrando el año con los relatos cortos de H. P. Lovecraft, esta vez con "Celephïs" en el que el protagonista en el mundo onírico se hace llamar Kuranes, quien sueña con una ciudad... allá en donde el mar se reúne con el cielo. "y vio la ciudad del valle, refulgiendo de forma radiante a lo lejos, lejos y abajo, con el trasfondo del mar y del cielo, y la montaña cubierta de nieves al pie de la orilla"
4.1Loved this, but it wasn't truly wonderful. Some of the descriptions were nice, but I felt as if it wasn't perfect. Getting a 4.1 is awesome. It's hard to get higher than that.For some reason, the drug part seemed forced and the end wasn't strong for me. However, the descriptions of the dream sequences was beautiful and made up for that.
Una historia de fantasia, que demuestra que en nuestra imaginacion hay mucho mas que ofrecer... Nada como el mundo que nos imaginamos.
Brilliantly written.
The line between reality and dreamscape is expertly removed, as Lovecraft vividly describes a world beyond our ken.
Tengo que admitir que me impresiono el final, me gusto la fluidez con la que Lovecraft llevó esta historia, un mundo de fantasia al estilo de Lovecraft.
A dreamer finds his dreams, maybe. I really, really liked this one. *disbelief*(Moving 2015 review to separate work to make room under collection for review, September 2017.)
A melancholy short story about drifting away into dreams.
Tries very hard to be great, but for me fails. It’s so elaborate you just know what the twist is gonna be.And then it is, and then it’s over.Yawn.
Yearning for a place seen in his dreams a man disregards everything else as he aches to view his dream city again. A nice story that makes me wonder what Lovecraft's dreams were actually like.
