https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74280.Principles_of_Marketing
The book is the marketing Bible of our times. Given to us as text book, I used to read it for leisure. Still do sometimes !!
This is very enormous book for a marketing student. I love it.
Firstly I learned about Market.For understanding market you have to know about the environment of market, Business to Business marketing, how to search for new market or accumulate more information about the current market.Secondly I learned that Marketing has three different strategy named:Relationship marketing,Segmentation and Positioning and Competitive strategy.And finally I learned about the dominant ideas of the modern marketing consist of Price,Product,Promotion and Place. These four elements named 4Ps and usually known as Marketing Mix.
The simplest marketing book taught in B-School.اسهل كتاب ممكن قراءته عن التسويق ، يدرس في المرحلة الجامعية ومن الضروري المرور عليه
Another core reference in the field marketing, authored by one of the greatest marketing-theoretician. His book is the corner stone to understand marketing as subject to study.
This book is so effective in presenting the marketing principles and concepts. Very well organized and effective case studies and examples with clear explanation of everything. The Great Philip Kotler new edition book is amazing compared to old editions.
VERY NICEEE..:)
at yet i have not done
All "Principles" of Marketing; not theoric which I obsessed to understand. Finally I got it, marketing is not a science, it is a "discipline" which has scientific methods for measurement.
good text book
The first step in a Marketing studying success is to read this awesome textbook by the father of Mktg. Philip kotler. The book really covered all the principles of MKTG and Cases to actual enterprises.. Recommended!
Generally referred to as the Bible of Marketing, I will be teaching this book this semester so I did something the students will never do (although none will admit it), I read it cover to cover.
(Reason I never read it before is I was not a marketing major in University, life just sort of pushed me in that direction.)Felt the early chapters while very interesting were overly long.
The fact that it's the first few chapters that are like that is problematic as to my experience, once students have decided that the reading assignments are unreasonable good luck on getting them to keep at it.
The chapter on Internet marketing I think takes the wrong tone.
لم أكن أعلم عن فن التسويق شيئآ يُذكر ..أخدنى الكتاب أولى خطواتى لأتعلم بعض النقاط المهمة منها : إعرف السوق الى انت داخل عليه جزّأ السوق ..
وقدم خدمات مختلفة الطبقات عشان تناسب مختلف الطبقات إفتكر دايمآ إنك بتقدم خدمة المستهلك محتاجها ..مش سلعة خلى عندك علامة تجارية ..
تكبرها ..
بس الناس تكون عارفاك بيها كمان دايما إلعب على المشاعر ..
مثال الناس لازم تعرف إنها هتكون أفضل بسبب خدمتك الى بتقدمها ..
الناس مش محتاجة تعرف تفاصيل خدمتك دى او السلعة او انت تعبت فيها أد إيه التسويق حاجة فعلا كلنا محتاجين نتعلمها ..
لأن فى كل المجالات ..
A must-read for marketers, this book gives a really good basis for practice. It's written in an American manner, with lots of practical info, examples and case studies. Even if you are already a marketing graduate, it would do you a world of good to go through it and get familiar (or re-acquainted) with the main marketing principles.
This is a great overview textbook...tons of case studies....well organized...easy to read...
This was my reference book in college...and it was good...just that I didn't spend much time and attention in reading then...
Quite interesting book.
Essentials
I WANT TO READ IT
v.good
want to read
My favorite marketing book of all time...
One of the most important modern marketing books, The main points talking about Defining of Marketing and the Marketing Process , Creating and Capturing Customer Value, Company and Marketing Strategy: Partnering to Build Customer Relationships, and how .
In addition to Designing a Customer-Driven Marketing Strategy and Marketing Mix, Customer-Driven Marketing Strategy: Creating Value for Target Customers, Product, Services, and Brands: Building Customer Value, New-Product Development and Life-Cycle Strategies, Pricing: Understanding and Capturing Customer Value, Marketing Channels: Delivering Customer Value,.
Communicating Customer Value: Integrated Marketing Communication Strategy, Advertising and Public Relations and Direct and Online Marketing: Building Direct Customer Relationships.
I've actually re-read this book, the first time I read it I was in school some 14-15 years ago. (Time flies so fast). This is a gem of a book and it had still after years and years had a lot to teach me.I actually read a previous version of the book I had from 2004-2005 some of the stuff was outdated and some of the stuff made you feel nostalgic.The book has re-enforced and refreshed the marketing concepts which I had forgotten over the years. I would highly recommend this book to all students and practitioners alike.5 Stars.
A must read for students of marketing!
Though I am a HR, I consider this book as ready reference in my desk....
ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS IN THE WORLED
the start
A systematic book.
It's not a book for reading, it's a book for studying
