https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23168277-the-sympathizer
Though my heart is always with these stories, they've often lacked style.
And I think he's is going to get a lot of awards and all that when word really gets out.
Deservedly so because it touches all the big points of Vietnamese American history while never getting bogged down in being a historical lesson.
I'd say this is the best book on the Vietnamese American experience period.
And coming from a Vietnamese American who was actually a boat refugee, this is the most authentic (yea, it's spy genre, but we're talking how Vietnamese people actually think and survive) telling of the Vietnam to America experience.
Right after I read this book -the first time -over a year ago --before Viet won the Pulitzer Prize --I chatted with him....a few times actually.
He never 'blames' anyone - but we become more aware of the conflicts living in the minds of the Vietnamese 'just-being-here' after the war in Vietnam.
As communist tanks are about to roll into Saigon,a General of the Southern Vietnamese army is saying good-bye to community workers and friends from the Villa they live.The General and his and compatriots leave to start a new life in Los Angeles, Calif.
Its a novel which commands our compassion and respect for Vietnamese-Americans.I've 'shifted' in 'soul' since reading this book.
The Darkness of DemocracyWhen Donald Trump blasts "Make America Great Again", it may not be obvious that 'again' has a very specific historical reference: the fall of Saigon on April 30, 1975, the day the United States lost its first war.
His recent attack on former Vietnamese prisoner of war John McCain as a 'loser' was not so much personal as a metaphysical rejection of Trump's as well as the country's own history.This novel is acutely prescient not only about the archetypal American/Trumpian neurosis, which it satirises so mercilessly, but also about the political effects of that neurosis.
Perhaps not inevitably as Weil feared, but certainly when it comes under control by the Claudes of the world.Donald Trump is the potentially fatal flaw in American representative democracy.
In addition to the chaos of the evacuation scene the gut wrenching torture scenes towards the end stands out in my mind as well.The essay and an interview at the end of the book were also enlightening and so very relevant for the issues at hand today and gave me a better understanding of the novel.
If that wasn't reason enough, this was a buddy read with two of my very good Goodreads friends, Diane and Esil.
So in this way the book did succeed by showing me many of the things I didn't know.
There are brilliant phrases, insights but in between were things I just wasn't interested in, that in a way felt like it was taking away from the story.
There is one event I found shocking, interesting, comes near the end of the book but again I felt this was overplayed, went on too long.
The absurdities of war and we keep going round and round, never learning a thing, or so it seems.Buddy read with Angela and Esil, which definitely made this easier to bear, would probably never had finished if it hadn't been for them.
Forty years ago this month, after a long, deadly release of flatulence from American politicians, the United States evacuated its personnel from Saigon in an operation appropriately code-named Frequent Wind. Whether you were alive then or not, the images of those panicked Vietnamese crushing the U.S. Embassy are tattooed on our collective consciousness.In the opening pages of Viet Thanh Nguyen’s extraordinary first novel, “The Sympathizer,” that terror feels so real that you’ll mistake your beat
Forty years ago this month, after a long, deadly release of flatulence from American politicians, the United States evacuated its personnel from Saigon in an operation appropriately code-named Frequent Wind.
Whether you were alive then or not, the images of those panicked Vietnamese crushing the U.S. Embassy are tattooed on our collective consciousness.In the opening ­pages of Viet Thanh Nguyen’s extraordinary first novel, “The Sympathizer,” that terror feels so real that you’ll mistake your beating heart for helicopter blades thumping the air.
Nguyen brings us right inside the barbed-wire-encircled home of a South Vietnamese general just waking from his faith in American resilience.
This novel is a perfect companion to the Quiet American by Graham Green (a masterpiece ), the only other book about the Vietnam war that I read.
At least we who believe in our own guilt know what dark things we can do.”  A similar idea I selected for my review of the Quiet American: "Innocence is a kind of insanity” “Innocence always calls mutely for protection when we would be so much wiser to guard ourselves against it: innocence is like a dumb leper who has lost his bell, wandering the world, meaning no harm.” The novel kept me on the edge of the seat for the first 100 pages or so when the fall of Saigon is described and thorough the escape to USA of the main characters.
I am merely noting that the creation of native prostitutes to service foreign privates is an inevitable outcome of a war of occupation, one of those nasty little side effects of defending freedom that all the wives, sisters, girlfriends, mothers, pastors, and politicians in Smallville, USA, pretend to ignore behind waxed and buffed walls of teeth as they welcome their soldiers home, ready to treat any unmentionable afflictions with the penicillin of American goodness.It rarely takes me over two weeks to finish a book, but this one had to be poured over, and savored.What's crazy is living when there's no reason to live, he said.
We had not chosen to be debased by the French, to be divided by them into an unholy trinity of north, center, and south, and to be turned over to the great powers of capitalism and communism for a further bisection, then given roles as the clashing armies of a Cold War chess match played in air-conditioned rooms by white men wearing suits and lies.With this story we get a rare, authentic Vietnamese perspective here that delves masterfully into the large questions of identity in the context of nationalism, race, culture, and morality.
So clever and witty but also gripping.
The Sympathizer is our unnamed narrator, a US-educated non-combat South Vietnamese military man who is secretly a mole working for Vietcong.
The story is the written confession of our leading man, penned for his jail keepers.
Sympathizer masterly handles a lot of fascinating themes: War, oriental representation, political chess games, and immigration, all while narrating them with a delightful black comedic tone.
One of the best parts of the story is when our narrator is hired by a Hollywood director to act as an advisor for a Vietnam war-themed movie.
(A curious person can learn even more about the author's perspective in this illuminating interview.)In case it sounds like I am saying this is a didactic novel, I would beg to differ.
(If this topic interests you, definitely read his non-fiction work.) But the entire novel is also slowly revealed as a confession, written by a central unnamed character (I'm guessing his name is Viet) during his time in a Reeducation camp.
So there is the point of view (powerful), the approach (confession), but the greatest element of the novel for me is the writing.
I loved the writing and I loved Viet Thanh Nguyen's perspective on the experiences of Vietnamese refugees in the United States.
He is a master at brilliant moments of reflection.-Having said this, at times The Sympathizer felt like too much work, almost like the cleverness got in the way of the story.
The last two chapters shift the ground a bit, but not enough to change the overall effect for me.-My 3 star rating reflects my personal experience reading The Sympathizer.
Powerful Personalization of Vietnamese and Vietnam War's Fallout [Winner of 2016 Pulitzer Prize in Literature]This novel profoundly personalized for me the Vietnam War and the Vietnamese in a way no movie or book has.
But books grant us myriad possibilities: the possibility of change, the possibility of illumination.This novel seems perfect for high school and college students studying the Vietnam War and the era surrounding it, particularly from the point of view of the Vietnamese.
On the left spectrum of political belief, I have always had a bad conscious about both the heinous acts done in the name of freedom and independence on both sides of the lines dividing east and west, north and south, "right" and "wrong" and I feel that this book does an excellent job of trying illustrating this paradox.
With the new war of West vs radical Islam, its message is still just as relevant and its reading is highly recommended.This book set me off on a tangent of books about the Vietnam War, always a good sign!
My background knowledge basically comes from watching Apocalypse Now (which is the obvious inspiration for a movie in the novel to which our narrator lends his perspective) which is hardly an exhaustive resource.
After reading, I feel like I can both sympathize with and condemn all of the parties involved in the War. Our nameless narrator is a "man of two minds" continuously caught in the middle of several parties.
I've read plenty of stories where the hero is from multiple worlds without being fully accepted by any of them, but never done more masterfully than in this novel.
I read New York Times review just a few minutes ago (didn't want anything to interfere with my understanding of the book), and for most part I'd like to agree.Few years I go when I was still in college, I took this class in art history and the famous Vietnam Veteran Memorial came up.
Sure, there are millions of North Vietnam casualities, many also nameless and faceless, but not as voiceless.
There are memorials everywhere, there are praises in history textbooks, incense sticks lighted on the national veteran day.
They have a place in history of the nation.What about these south Vietnamese soldiers?

I find it intriguing how satire and humour is used to tell tough stories and I am impressed by how well Nguyen does that in this book.We all know about the Vietnam war and have probably seen some horrific images from there, but Nguyen uses satire to tell us the story and it works really well in a way I can’t quite put into words right now.
It brought to mind the unique perspectives minority writers bring to their writing, the nuances they can pick up that others might not be able to: “Ah, the Amerasian, forever caught between worlds and never knowing where he belongs!
3.5 starsI can see how  The Sympathizer, Viet Thanh Nguyen's complex novel focusing on the post-Vietnam War experience, won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction this year.
A (very) select few authors can get away with it (Colum McCann is one) and that's only because he's been able to shuck quotation marks in such a way that is not confusing or disruptive to the reading experience.
(Authors: thumbing your nose at convention (by dumping quote marks) is  not creative license.
The idea that as reprehensible as the United States' actions were, there were plenty of Vietnamese that were not beyond reproach, either.
13h 53 m narrated by Francois Chau To begin this review I feel the need to share that as I was listening to the audiobook I began to wonder how books qualify for the Pulitzer Prize.
It appears that my personal journey with books that have eyed or won this prize is a real mixed bag.
On the other, I see books like The Color Purple, The Old Man and the Sea, and All the Light We Cannot See (all winners)were "okayish" reads for me.
This book recounts racism in the US and in Hollywood and the type of narrative that needed to be told regarding the war.
To be honest, I don't think I grasped what exactly had happened.The Sympathizer is an important novel, as it's written by a Vietnamese born writer, from a Vietnamese perspective.
Sure, it's got the benefit of hindsight, it goes without saying that Thanh Nguyen must have heard many stories from his parents and other Vietnamese people.It is a complex novel that deals with a variety of subjects: war, history, refugees, communism, race.
What stood out for me is the way Nguyen went about it, via the narration of a Vietnamese captain who is a spy and sympathizer of the communists.
A book about the end of the Vietnam War and the Vietnamese refugees that come to America .
Initially, he is tasked with working as an aide de camp for a South Vietnamese general.
This first part of the book was so strong and I was hooked.
There is a dry humor to this book.
The book touches on a lot of issues - war, loyalty, betrayal, the sense of other, discrimination, art as propaganda and who writes history.
While the writing is beautiful throughout, I have to admit that the middle of the book really dragged.
The Sympathizer, written by Viet Thanh Nguyen, is a sweeping novel of Vietnamese and American culture after the fall of Saigon seen through the eyes of a half-French, half-Vietnamese intellectual communist double agent.
Winner of the 2016 Pulitzer Price for Fiction, the author writes from different perspectives showing us the lives of Vietnamese refugees who settled in America after the war.
With beautiful prose, and some humor, The Sympathizer is about war and its aftermath, friendship, and betrayal.
A wonderful book, but one you want to take your time reading.Highly recommend for those that enjoy reading about different cultures and war.4.5 out of 5 stars
A negotiated score of boundary marks invisible in landlocked lines or an abstract concept that if manipulated properly will ignite others into patriotism, the willing to sacrifice, to die, to kill others.
Doesn’t it become more complicated if you are of the nature, a flexible identity or none at all, where you can see both sides and the possibility of the danger of helping each?Paralysis is by far an interesting thing.
A curating ever so slight that edges it into a reality of what was taken to be real.I hoped that by writing this my paralysis might recede.
Thus, armed with a complex novel about the Vietnam War, The Sympathizer, and our generation’s most reliable accesible and trustworthy mostly-accurate collection of knowledge, Wikipedia, I decided to get myself edumacated.
The Captain’s confession, then, serves as the tale of his life as his leaves Vietnam in the back of military aircraft during a bombing, through to the reveal of how he has found himself in his particular predicament.Now, I don’t know about my reading audience, but I expected, with that synopsis, a rather serious tale.
The Sympathizer is a smart novel that was probably a bit too bold choice for my introduction to Vietnam War writing.
Let's read a book about having sex with a dead squid.
And I got annoyed.Repeatedly.There's some stuff that isn't so bad.
The book isn't free of some twists, although they are obvious so I don't know if one can call them that.
It took me forever to read this book.
So I'll say nothing and laugh because nothing ends up being vital to the story: Nothing is less precious than a bad review.
I know I love to exaggerate for the sake of humor, but some of the worst moments of my life took place while I was trapped in a tin can for eighteen hours with only the first five movies of the Fast and Furious franchise to keep me company.
(Great film selection on that plane, too.)Anyway.We covered circumstances: let’s talk Overall Emotion.This book made me feel Bad. Mainly uncomfortable.
There’s a lot of talk of alcohol.But overall, I see the Literary Appeal (capital letters very important) of this book.
It just wasn’t myyyy kind of literary appeal.I spent a lot more time talking about a plane ride I took once than the actual book in this review.
"To be in sympathy intellectually; to feel or show support for or approval of something."The narrator of the story, who remains nameless throughout the book and is only known to us as 'Captain,' is writing his confession to the Commandant and begins with this statement: "I am a spy, a sleeper, a spook, a man of two faces.
Viet's debut novel is remarkably well-written and I enjoyed tracing the theme of duality throughout the story, how it played out in the captain's life and his dealings with others.
Our narrator (the unnamed 'Captain') is an aide to an important General in the South Vietnamese nationalist army and also an undercover communist agent.
But the duality of his lifestyle comes to haunt him, forcing him down a dark road of murder and betrayal.This book makes some fascinating points about being an outsider in America - how difficult it was for high-ranking Vietnamese soldiers to adjust to new lives as janitors and shop assistants, how strange it was to adapt to a completely alien culture, the prejudices they faced in the country that tried and failed to emancipate them.
