https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136456.The_Valley_Of_Decision
The Valley of Decision, the story of a Pittsburgh steel mill-owning family from the 1870s to the 1940s, is an epic, sweeping saga - a bestseller in its day, filmed in 1945.The book opens on the day the well-to-do Clarissa Scott employs Irish teenager Mary Rafferty as a maid.
Despite her long-term romance with Paul, the son and heir, this is less a Cinderella fantasy than a novel about the importance of duty and sacrifice – not a very popular concept today.
One of the characters in the book, a music composer, is asked by his wife (Claire in the book, 3rd generation member of the Scott family whose life the book chronicles)to write a full symphony to the beat of a mill and he does.
A symphony of various notes written to cover almost 70 plus years of history, the book chronicles the life of more than three generations of the Scott family, owners of a Pittsburgh steel mill.
I admit I have a soft spot for this book because it's based in my hometown, but on top of that, it's a great ripping yarn about a steel owner's family, the servants that live with them, a feisty union member and on top of all that, has one of the best flood scenes I've ever read in a novel. Set in Pittsburgh in the 1800s, it's written by a woman who went on to be the partner of the son of a founder of Czechoslovakia.
Pittsburgh, steel mills/iron works, unions, wealthy families, servants, 1800's....a great story about Pittsburgh.The book has something for history buffs and also those readers who are interested in the lives of the people during that time period which stretches from the 1800's to December 1941...the day Pearl Harbor was bombed.The book talks about the steel mills...specifically the Scott Iron Works...and how they grew and how the lives of its owners and workers were totally immersed and devoted.
The love and loyalty between Mary Rafferty and the Scott family was the main theme carried through up to the last pages of the book.
Mary was a strong girl who held her poor, working class family together even though she only saw them once a week since she had to remain as a live-in servant at the Scott residence.
And it makes a decisive claim: to have a purpose means being part of something larger than yourself.All through the story we see how people reach their potential by looking out for their family, working for the mill, fighting for their country.
The best character is Claire, who finds her purpose as a journalist, a stock-holder of the mill and a lover in the latter part of the story.I think if you're interested in the setting, especially the steel industry, and if you want to watch the evolution of a business and a family, this is the book for you.
My reactions to this book were twofold.
I had to admire the skilled way Davenport handles a huge cast of characters, weaving their storylines together over several generations and making even the smallest supporting players stand out so you remember them when you encounter them again.
On the other hand, the pervasive immorality of a number of characters, including some we're supposed to like and root for, gives the story a sordid flavor and spoiled most of it for me.
It's the kind of book where I had to keep reading just to find out how things turned out, but not one I'd re-read or recommend.
They don't write them like this anymore.
Published in 1942, this is the story of an American steel mill family in Pittsburgh, that starts right after the Civil War and ends with the start of Pearl Harbor.
The central figure in the book is the sixteen year old Irish maid that goes to work for them for the next 68 years.
A very good read.
One very interesting item in my copy of the book (that is totally falling apart) on the 2nd page under the copyright it says "This book is manufactured under wartime conditions in conformity with all government regulations controlling the use of paper and other materials".

May’s book club selection, a long, long book. I loved the epic story of the Scott Family of Pittsburgh. The central character was Mary Rafferty, who came to work for the Scotts in her teens and became inextricably entwined in their lives and business for many generations. The story spans from 1873 until 1941. I wasn’t able to attend the book club, but heard that almost everyone liked the book, though several commented on the length of the book.
Probably read this 15 or more years ago and have been meaning to reread it. I thought it was one of the best books I'd ever read. Will be interesting to see what I think now!
I found a very old hardback edition of this book tattered on the shelf at Grandpa's. I read it and loved the story.
A few thoughts:* In my review of the movie (which I adored), I suggested that if the movie had been made today “it would be an ongoing series that would wear itself out with increasingly dramatic cliffhangers and tiring, convoluted plot developments.” Well, at times, that’s how I felt about the book.
Get readers interested with a juicy cross-class love story set against a historical backdrop, and then--bam!--hit them with an emotional plea for them to get passionately, committedly involved in a war that’s happening right now and that America at large was still resistant to get involved in.
It was a favorite movie of my mother's as a child.
In my teens Mom and I were talking about movies and what she liked as a child, this was one of them.When my mother was stricken with Alzheimers, I puchased this on DVD for her, we sat and watched it together.
It was not until many years later, after mom had passed away, that I found out it had been a book.
My copy is old and has cigar clippings throughout the book, it smells of cigar, which I guess is only fitting.
Yep have to read the book or watch the movie to find out why.
This book was a favorite of my mother's. Several years before her death, I bought the re-issue for her so she could read it again. I have her copy, and finally got around to reading it myself. What a remarkable story of ordinary people living heroic lives! The book offers a believable portrait of American life from the late 19th century to the beginning of World War II through the life of an Irish maid and the family to which she was devoted. My mom was right: this is a terrific book!
Wow! This is an older book I found among my Grandfather's books, published in 1944. The book is very long, but so well written; I labored mightily with the tiny print, but was well worth the time it took. The book follows an impoverished Irish maid, Mary Rafferty, who works in the Scott household, and their son, Paul Scott, and ultimately the rest of the Scott descendants, who manage to cling to their specialty company's sole ownership of the Scott Iron Works of Pittsburgh, PA.
Ďalšia skvelá rodinná sága ktorá sa mi dostala do rúk.Tato kniha je veľmi rozsiahla preto vás varujem dopredu.S rodinou Scottu a ich príbuznými prežijete niekoľko rokov.Bolo to všetko zaujímave a vôbec som sa nenudila. Sice mi chvíľu trvalo kým som knihu prečítala ale rozhodne neľutujem.Autorka píše pútavo a určite sa ku knihe niekdy vrátim. :)
Apparently I am not a fan of the sweeping epic. This one jumped the shark for me around page 200 with the house that floated up the Allegheny River intact with star crossed lovers inside. By the time we got to the third (fourth?) generation I just didn’t care anymore and I was hoping saint Mary would just die already.
One of my favorite novels of all time. Just re-read it and loved it just as much.
One of the characters in the book, a music composer, is asked by his wife (Claire in the book, 3rd generation member of the Scott family whose life the book chronicles)to write a full symphony to the beat of a mill and he does.
A symphony of various notes written to cover almost 70 plus years of history, the book chronicles the life of more than three generations of the Scott family, owners of a Pittsburgh steel mill.
Even thought the three sections of the book are titled with the names of members of the Scott family, the book's main character is Mary Rafferty, a maid in their household.
This book follows three generations of the Scotts, steel mill owners in Pittsburgh.
If you knew the city of Pittsburgh or a lot about Czech history I think this book would really appeal to you.
The story starts in the late 1800's and ends as the US is bombed at Pearl Harbor.
Mary Rafferty goes from being parlor maid to ladies maid to almost marrying one of the Scotts.
scheming, love, hate, world wars, class issues, predjudice....
Downton Abbey Pittsburgh!The descriptive, straightforward writing bogged down the reading for me as I read more contemporary novels and I found myself skipping over passages to find out what happened.Mary Rafferty and Paul's relationship was frustrating, but Constance, the emerald eyed precocious sister of Paul was the most interesting character.
All the characters are well drawn, good and evil.The long descriptions of how steel was made and the growth of that industry is central to the plot and was interesting as was learning about Czechoslavakia.
To help her family make ends meet, Mary takes a job in the Scott home and settles into a life of service.
Unknown to her on the day she arrives at the Scott's, that decades later she would still be living in this home and be a vital part of their family for generations.
What is truly remarkable is that it is the women in the story who are the strongest characters and how they deal with the men who demand so much from their lives.
This book was extremely personal to me due to the fact that my family lives in Pittsburgh. Having an historical story set there was very magical for me. This book was very dense but a great example of the history of the city of Pittsburgh and its steel mills. However, I did find myself wanting the story to speed up at times, especially during the last two hundred pages after Paul has already passed away and the story begins to leave the focus of the main love story.
1) Název je divný, podle něj bych myslela, že jde o dílo typu Barbary Woodové nebo Joy Fieldingové.2) Čte se to jedním dechem, ale není to myslím kniha, ke které by se člověk pravidelně vracel. Kdo má rád ságy, je to kniha pro něj jak stvořená.3) Je příjemné číst knihu americké autorky která píše o českých reáliích a přitom je zná.4) Připadá mi, že má autorka o českém národě příliš vysoké mínění.
This was the 1st adult book I ever read & I think it made a big impression on me. I don't know what happened to that copy, but I spent a lot of time looking in resale shops for another copy so I could reread it. There was also a movie that I enjoyed at some point. I also read My Brothers Keeper by Marcia Davenport & loved that.
When I read this, I learned the book is always better than the movie. I used it in high school & college. It's about the growing up of America in the Industrial Revolution. Mainly following a steel mill family in Pittsburgh from it's beginning thru WWII. The movie was a Greer Garson and Gregory Peck love story which was a very small piece of the book.
Really enjoyed this book especially but not only because the Pittsburgh area is my home. I love books that follow a family from one generation to the next. The author used great insight in building the characters and detailing the events.
Defienitly not my genre. Someone lost a copy in the airport. I picked it up and couldn't get through 2 pages. One of the other reviewers said they "don't write 'em like this anymore." All I can say is, thank goodness.
This book shows the disparity between the working class and the steel magnates in the early days of the steel industry in Pittsburgh. I found the story quite interesting, but felt that it was just too long.
It took me a while to get into this but once I did I thoroughly enjoyed it . A saga of 5 generations of a steel making family- spanning the wars - and with interesting glimpses of Europe at the time as well.
