https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17362.Black_Holes_Time_Warps
You've come to the right place.
Thorne has done an excellent job of putting just about anything you'd want to know about the topic in layman's terms, but the math and physics is also there if you want it.
He blends the science and the history together and comes up with an interesting read not only about what we know about stellar death, but how we got there.
In the last chapter he presents some of his own research on how black holes may be used to create time traveling wormholes.
You don't get much cooler than time-traveling wormholes.

This classic was first published in hardback in 1994.
This book stands out for a number of reasons: 1)quality of the writing,2)An excellent bibliography, and 3) very well done illustrations.
I have lost count of the number of astronomy books published in the last 14-20 years with poor quality photos or drawings.
I wish Dr. Thorne would write a revision of the based on the recent discoveries made by the Hubble and Chandra Space Telescopes.
Dr. Thorne was a consultant to the movie and is listed as one of the executive producers of the film.

Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Black HolesKip Thorne is an eccentric author who reveals scientific enterprise of quantum gravity and black holes research in a simple language.
The first part of the book describes theory of relativity, concept of spacetime fabric of the universe and curvature of spacetime in presence of matter (stars, galaxies, etc.) to generate gravity.
The author warps up the second part by discussing the possibility of constructing wormholes with exotic matter (tunnels in space connecting two widely separated locations in the universe) through hyperspace for interstellar travel and back to the future.
Anyone interested in black hole and space travel must have this book.
I had seen a cover blurb describing Kip Thorne's book (subtitle: Einstein's outrageous legacy) as exemplary science writing and, though it is somewhat dated (1993) bought a used copy.Thorne wastes no time, initially taking the reader on a visit to black holes of various sizes, though widely separated in distance, in our galaxy.
So impressive was his work that astronomers from the Yerkes Observatory traveled to visit him.Thorne takes you across the electromagnetic spectrum, from light through radio and X-rays up to the latest area of investigation, non-electromagnetic gravity waves, being sought as the inevitable result of black holes in collision.
Del epílogo:"Ha pasado casi un siglo desde que Einstein destruyera los conceptos newtonianos de espacio y tiempo como algo absoluto, y empezase a sentar las bases de su propio legado. Durante los cien años transcurridos, el legado de Einstein ha crecido para incluir, entre otras muchas cosas, una distorsión del espacio-tiempo y un conjunto de objetos exóticos constituidos única y exclusivamente por dicha distorsión: agujeros negros, ondas gravitacionales, singularidades (vestidas y desnudas), agujeros de gusano y máquinas del tiempo.En una u otra época de la historia, los físicos han considerado cada uno de estos objetos como escandalosos."
In September 2015 physicists were able to measure those gravitational waves – which are an experimental reassurance of Einstein’s general theory of relativity – for the first time in history.Thorne wrote this book in 1993 and therefore twenty-two years before they had first observed gravitational waves.
Nevertheless, the book goes into the general theory of gravitational waves and the process of developing a suitable observatory for these waves – all of this, without using complicated formulas or the like.
In no way, shape or form you have to be a doctor of physics or anything like that to understand the general concepts of this book.
In this book, Thorne tried to write a pop-science book giving the state of play in theoretical astrophysics (in 1995, so obviously a bit dated) but at the same time making it accessible to the non-practitioner.
I read it cover to cover, twice, and came away with a combination of understanding and deep confusion - not from any problems with the delivery, but because the subject matter itself is deeply complex.
Nonetheless Thorne's writing has a comfortable, informal style and, as a (semi-auto)-biographical work on the most influential physicists of the last century, this book is well worth a look.
This book is one of the finest work I have come across till date in terms of the content and clarity for any layman with an interest in Physics.
It is Kip Thorne's tour de force to form an account of the history and the details about black holes and study on the nature of spacetime in terms of classical & quantum analysis.
The grandeur of this book is the dive into the nature of reality itself which we learn through studying black holes/wormholes or singularities.
Thorne states that a free particle "moves solely under the influence of its own inertia" ("no external forces push or pull") and also states that a body resists "being accelerated by forces that act on it." Does this mean that freedom - where the basic impulse of matter and energy is to move freely - lies at the heart of the cosmos?
While these are central to his discussion of black holes, as presented these terms were hard to grasp.When gravity is weak, Thorne states that the Newtonian paradigm and Einstein's curved spacetime "are almost identical," but Newton's theory doesn't work at extreme scales, as with black holes, which is where Thorne sees the effects of quantum mechanics.
My only problem with this book (apart from its being twenty years old) is the title; wormholes and "time machines" are discussed briefly in the last 45 pages, but the book is actually a popular account of every aspect of black holes, at an above-average level of popularization -- about as high as one could expect without much mathematics.
The next two chapters are on white dwarfs and neutron stars and the Chandrasekhar limit, and the next two explain why massive stars must implode to form black holes.
The last chapter is the one on wormholes and the theory of time machines.
It is an eye-opening book for gravitational physics, even for physics students trained in GR as it covers very broad topics and development of general relativity and black hole physics.What's nice to this book is that it has a lot of personal elements - how different important figures are different in their characters and the way they guide their students and how they come to accept and reject certain ideas, or even how certain people gets attention or not by the community by virtue of his character.
Kip Thorne, the Feynman Professor of Physics at Caltech, is best known to the general public for his 1988 wormhole "time machine" proposal.
The wormhole work grew out of a request from Carl Sagan for a plausible FTL transport scheme for his 1985 science-fiction novel Contact (which I recommend).
Sagan's request made Thorne realize the value of thought experiments that ask, "What things do the laws of physics permit an infinitely advanced civilization to do, and what do the laws forbid?" This style of speculation by world-class scientists has become popular (and somewhat respectable) in the last decade, and has resulted in some very stimulating reading, such as K.
Black Holes and Time Warps: Einstein’s Outrageous Legacy may not be as popular as A Brief History of Time, and Kip Thorne may not be much of a household name in comparison with that of his colleague Stephen Hawking, but I would think that this book is a much better read.
It contains much more information about the historical developments of Einstein’s theories of special and general relativity, as well as the legacies that have been left behind in the discovery of neutron stars, black holes and supermassive black holes lying in the hearts of all galaxies.
What is remarkable about this book is that it stays relatively current, even after twenty years.
The hard science, however, is here, and is laid out in a way that is accessible for common readers.
I have to say, after reading a few other popular science works on cosmology, Thorne has a unique way of keeping the subject clear, and building a real suspense into the discovery and understanding of each new step along the way.
I spent about a year reading this the first time, in bits and pieces, when time allowed.
I have always been interested in anything related to quantum physics. I didn't expect this to be an easy read but I didn't really expect to have any problem getting through it since I've been researching this type of stuff since I was in 8th grade. I underestimated this book. It's written in a way that's fairly easy to understand, but the theories themselves were giving me a hard time. If you are interested in learning more about black holes and time warps and are willing to reread every paragraph until you understand then I definitely recommend this book.
Although it's slightly outdated now and there have been theories proven and disproved since its publication, I would recommend this book to anyone with a keen interest in Physics regardless of their background knowledge. The book delves into the history of how Einstein changed the way Physicists viewed the Universe, the controversy it caused, and the discoveries of many other Physicists from around the world.Loved it!
Great book .....I recommend this to almost everyone, Has a lot of concepts cleared, Love the Astronaut Story in the beginning, Scientific concepts put in the most elegant way, Must read for everyone, After reading this book.......You will want to know more about the subject
I decided to read it because it was cited as one of the sources for the science behind a time travel series I follow, and I wanted to try to grasp the very real science behind the fictional events in the stories.The book basically tells the story of the rise of Cosmology and Particle Physics since the 1920s, explaining in layman's terms the leading theories, discoveries and the scientists who initiated the theories that we now accept as fact, proven through mathematical formulae where physical proof is still beyond our reach.It effectively starts with Einstein and his alternate ideas to Newtonian Physics and works forward from there.
Also that Antoine Also created the law of conservation of matter which is the first law in thermodynamic which states that as much heat you put in that is not as much energy you will get.I'm on page 140 and basically I'm learning the diagram of a black hole and what sorrounds it for example the absolute horizon is in the black hole and the apparent horizon is the outer layer of black hole and basicly the apparent horizon sucks in all the photons that try to get away now what sorrounds a black hole is accretion disk which is basically a gas that could also be found in a nuetron star.FINAL REVIEWThe book I read was Black Holes and Time Warps and this story is (non-fiction) all about Theoritical theories which some are actually based on evidence and some are on hypothesis.
(The mass media coverage of this result included a photograph of Thorne "doing physics in the nude".) As can be expected, his account of black hole research includes much that is about the personalities of those involved; illustrations include private snap shots of dinner parties.The second half is interesting, well explained popular science; any reader put off by the first four chapters is missing out.
It follows the chronological development of the theory, blending biographical facts about the leading scientists and their research environment with easy to follow non-technical explanation of the results.
The biographical presentations are sympathetic and take care to show how the researchers' ideas could develop - or not develop - in the research environment of their time and place.
I've read a handful of books on the subject of cosmology and physics but where those have fallen short, Professor Thorne has achieved excellence.
Thorne overcomes this without beating the reader to death with equations by eloquently explaining the reasoning behind the theory, including what problem it was trying to solve, what alternatives there might have been, or what objections were raised.
While he does this, he's also overcoming another shortcoming in this genre, dryness, by including human characters: the physicists who worked alone, together, or in opposition to others to unlock the secrets of the Universe.
In a parallel universe, one in which my math skills were quite a bit better, I would have become a physicist and joined in the effort to understand everything.In this universe, I am limited to satisfying my curiosity with physics books written for the lay reader.
Because I think Thorne spends too much time discussing the research done during his period of research, not inflating his own role, but taking care to mention, seemingly, each and every physicist who has contributed to our knowledge of black holes.
It is, in fact, surprisingly readable,and is stocked with helpful diagrams and illustrations to guide the reader through material that can seem incomprehensible at times.
After a catchy opening on board a space ship that "time-travels" to the largest black hole in the universe, we learn about Newton, Einstein, Oppenheimer, quantum gravity, weak and strong forces, space-time, wormholes and various other juicy concepts that unite and divide Star Trek fans the world over.
You see, black holes also die--albiet slowly.
This is probably the best pop science book I ever read.
Granted, I picked it up when I was still a young, idealistic undergrad -- not a cynical, quantum gravity shmavity, string-theory-is-crap, PhD.
I love how the history of the gravitational physics is presented and the culture of physics and physicists.
When I was reading it I didn't know, for instance, about the distinction between theorists and experimentalists, and I ate stuff like that up.
Talk about machine language!
Anyway, Kip Thorne, Cal Tech relativist that he is, certainly knows what the heck he is talking about, but he also knows how to present in an engaging way.
Thorne explains difficult to parse concepts with an engaging and understandable voice, using numerous examples, while not afraid to delve into the nitty-gritty physics and math if necessary.
His mention of a bet with Hawking was especially amusing, since Hawking brought it up in one of his own books (as well as the fact that Thorne seemed to have sealed the deal).Though my interest in the subject matter has waned in recent years, I still have a fondness for the way things like relativity, temporal distortion, star-collapse and event horizons were explained in this book.
The writer who is a scientist describes throughout this book the different discoveries made by different scientists that shape our understanding of what black holes are; their properties, existence and behaviour.
There are photographs of people and illustrations and graphs explaining different concepts like space-time, hyperspace, Doppler shift etc.
To me some concepts were a bit hard to understand for example electromagnetic vacuum fluctuations or virtual particles.
The last chapter which was about wormholes and the possibility of time machines was more like science fiction based on absurd assumptions.
Some part of this book describes these developments.
I really like books like this. Whenever I go into any type of store I'm always picking up books that is similar to this book. Any books related to the universe I would read. This book is a must have especially for someone who is interested in time travel. This book is basically a manual on how to go forward in time. Remind me of back to the Future you know. To me the book is well written and the book was everything that I expected and more. It's an excellent read. Good book.
