https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7576115-i-shall-wear-midnight
That said, you can read any Disc World book first.) (One thing I love about the Disc World books, one person's "It's funny and quite good" can be another person's "My personal favorite!" Don't always go by those four or five star ratings on gr.
But I like that one!)I'm going to try (I said try!) to express why I loved the final Tiffany Aching book (hell, that whole series) so much in a way that doesn't veer into hyperbole that will not make an outsider feel lonely.The magic is personal magic, from the heart, earth, soul.
Can the Nac Mac Feegle help her clear her name and the name of witches everywhere?Terry Pratchett has been one of my "buy everything" authors for years now and this book is a good example why.
It's funny how a lot of people dismiss the Discworld books as fantasy parody when they're so much more.The Nac Mac Feegle, demented Scottish smurfs that they are, provide comic relief as always.
And the cameos by Vimes, Nanny Ogg, and Granny Weatherwax were worth the price of admission.Something that not many people mention, Terry Pratchett does a lot to advance the concept of the fantasy witch as more than juts a cackling hag.
Add to this quality while reading his 38th Discworld book I Shall Wear Midnight (first published in 2010 and featuring recurring protagonist Tiffany Aching) the feeling that Pratchett’s narration is like a comforting blanket in which the reader can snuggle and get cozy.Pratchett’s repeated description of witches is that they have and use magic, but much of what they do and the good they provide a community is the domestic enchantment of stewardship, husbandry and good sense.
More adolescent witch adventures, more growing up too fast, more dry humor with teeth underneath.Critics go on about how magic in fantasy novels is a metaphor for political power or social power or insert power here.
Which is usually a really unsatisfying reading to me because fantasy novel magic is so often inborn, inexplicable, a random or genetic gift.
Tiffany is a really powerful witch, but not in the usual fantasy novel way.
She doesn’t have some inexplicable inner spring of magic, and this book is very clear: Tiffany wasn’t born chosen.
I would read the phone book if Terry Pratchett wrote it.
I have read all his books; including the ones for kids and young adults.
Pratchett makes Tiffany "feel" like a real 16-year old girl; with all the confusion and angst that implies.
Empress V (avatar) and I ARE amused and are thrilled to be reading a new Pratchett "Tiffany" book.
vcToday I finished this book and it is not a spoiler to say it felt like I was saying goodbye to a good friend.
I loved this book and Tiffany is a Character with a capital "CHAR".
It had been the weakest book of the Tiffany Aching-series ....
well until The Shepherd's Crown was published anyway :( .This was definitely the book where things started on the slippery slope for me with the series.
The core was interesting, but it was surrounded by so much unnecessary, and let's be honest, boring padding that started grating.
Also I couldn't shake the feeling that Sir Terry was actually spoonfeeding us with the same facts and information basically in every chapter and this put me quite out of countenance with him.
(This happens often.) It seemed appropriate, given that the US release of The Shepherd's Crown is Tuesday, and turned out to be exactly what I needed on a Sunday evening.There were things I remembered: Tiffany's changed relationship with Roland, the Nac Mac Feegle in Ankh-Morpork, Letitia the very damp Duchess's daughter with unsuspected depth.
By the end, she knows why witches face tragedy and suffering and the hard choices the way they do, and for all her skills, it's that moment when Tiffany is a true witch.I remember being a little put off by the dissolution of Tiffany and Roland's romance (this is not a spoiler, it's revealed in the first few pages) because that relationship had been telegraphed fairly well in previous books.
I Shall Wear Midnight is the fourth book in the Tiffany Aching subseries of Discworld.
In this story, there is an entity that is causing an increase of bigotry against witches, and naturally its prime target is Tiffany.
The story was ok, but very short and the plot was pretty thin.
The book was carried by the characters, who are all still a lot of fun.
I liked that we got to spend a short amount of time in Ankh-Morpork, which isn’t a normal setting for the Tiffany books, and I especially liked that we finally got a tie back to the first Witches book, Equal Rites.
I don't find many books that I'd gladly give to my girl and say "this, this is what being human is".
In the Tiffany Aching series, Pratchett nailed it and in this, the final book (which can be read alone), Pratchett nails the story too.
The others have featured metaphors-come-to-life as antagonists, but they were very active antagonists.
In this book, the antagonist is more in the background: he exists, there's pursuit, but it's all playing second fiddle to Tiffany's battle with her feelings and the prejudices of others.There aren't enough stars for this character and this book.
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list.I think I’ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I’ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too.I read   I S
This book falls into my LOCUS Y-A list.I think I’ll always have a soft-spot for imaginative young-adult speculative fiction and as the good people at Locus did such a grand job with picking their Sci-Fi winners, I’ll trust them to single out some special y-a books too.I read 
is not actually a Locus Y-A Award winner - but the first three books in this sequence were, so I included this in my award reading list because I'm a completionist.
I came to the sequence sceptical, and the first three books made a covert of me, which is why, by the time I reached 
Even when the main character was just a ten year old girl.So. This is the last of the Tiffany Aching books and the last time we will ever hear of Granny Weatherwax or Nanny Ogg ever again, thanks to Mr. Pratchett's disease.
I mean, any book that starts out with the near-death of a thirteen year old pregnant girl because her father tried to beat her into the ground is going down a rather particular path, if you know what I mean.Other parts felt a little rushed.
Terry Pratchett is a genius!
Tiffany is a sixteen-year-old witch, self-assured and very wise beyond her years, yet still down to earth (or, in her case, chalk) and still sixteen.
Her nemesis this time is the Cunning Man--the pure, stinking essence of evil left eons ago when a witch-burning fanatic was drawn into the flames himself by one of his young victims.
She finds herself facing off against him at a time of change and transition; the old Baron has died peacefully, just a few days before his son, Roland, is to be married.
It is with some sadness that I finished this knowing that Sir Terry will not write any more Discworld books.
Something black and evil is hunting her down and putting bad thoughts about witches into people's heads.
Tiffany is scared but knows the evil will eventually catch up with her and she will have to stand and face it alone.
In the meantime she has the Wee Free Men, the Nac Mac Feegle to watch over her (when they're not getting into trouble themselves).An excellent book in this Discworld sub series.
It will be sad to say goodbye to all our favourite characters.
Extremely enjoyable witch novel.
This sub-branch of the whole disc-World always have the ability to make me giddy and giggly with the feeling that imminent practicality is the most magical skill in the world.
It's a consistent feeling, of course, and not endemic to this novel.
I got the distinct impression that this 16 year old woman just got more wise and has received a great deal of Esteem, in a very Maslovian way.
It filled my heart to the brim.And by the way, fantastic use of foreshadowing.
So very enjoyable for any novel, but for the Discworlds, I might just put this one at one of the tops of the tops.Fantastic stuff.
Porque necesito a Terry más que nunca…. T___T
And, depending where you are in your own life, it may all seem rather trivial and obvious (because you're young and you already know everything, duh), or it may seem the old man is telling you the only knowledge worth knowing (because you've been through those fires, you have fought and lost, and earned this selfsame wisdom for your pains).There's an urgency to these latter books, as if he has looked his own mortality in the eye and said, "Hold on, Death, there's a few last things I want to get off my chest." Maybe it's not as elegantly done as when he was younger, but he still just makes my jaw drop with the things he understands, and the depth to which he understands them.
Tiffany Sızı o kadar mükemmel bir seri ki tarif etmeye kelimeler yetmez <3
But it's close.I stalled a bit in getting to this one because it's the last* of the Tiffany Aching books, and I hate to see a good thing end (even though I can re-read the books at my leisure).
Anyone who's read and loved the Harry Potter books needs to read the Tiffany Aching books.
If you have read them, I hope you agree with me that Terry Pratchett is a literary treasure and a humanist of the first order.* When I read this, this was the last of the Tiffany books.
No sé hasta donde llega la crítica de Pratchett en este libro pero creo que mucho más lejos de lo que puede parecer en un principio.No he leído ninguna de las entregas anteriores de Tiffany y lo he leído en este momento por el reto de Popsugar.
Aprovecho para decir que casi se puede leer independientemente aunque hay algún que otro chiste que no se pilla si no conoces a varios de los personajes o lugares.En este episodio el señor Terry nos cuenta la historia de una bruja a la que persigue una entidad maligna que pone en contra de la brujería (la brujería buena) a todo el que pasa cerca.
Then Sir Pratchett publishes another gem like this, and it makes me feel better.Tiffany Aching is 16.
Tiffany is now the true witch of her Chalk; she's bandaging wounds, helping the old and sick shuffle off their mortal coil, and dealing with viciously abusive parents (not her own).
But then it rockets along, and the true masterpiece it is starts to shine through.If you've got an 8 or 10 yr old who loves the Tiffany Aching stories, I'd wait a couple years before introducing them to this one; teen pregnancy, attempted suicides, murderers, and a truly terrifying villain without redeeming qualities might be too much for them to handle.
Pratchett-by-numbers, with nothing memorable or engaging to tie the plot around.
The usual sharp Pratchett wit is buried under long, rambling asides that (normally so witty and insightful) just resemble a storyteller getting sidetracked without the discipline to keep on track.
All in all this is just a very muddy, loose, unfocussed work, where even the tricks Pratchett normally uses to keep the reader entertained whilst he wanders away from the plot fail to work.
I just love these books so much, great on audiobook too, so fun, so clever, and such great gems of wisdom woven right in...I highly recommend this YA series by Terry Pratchett, a sub-set within his larger Discworld, to readers of all ages. I'll be sad to finish the next and last one of this series, I'll miss Tiffany and her Wee Free Men. 💙
3.5 stars ! No, I'm not going to round it up . Very enjoyable though and I loved the epilogue . Classic Terry !
I Shall Wear Midnight is supposedly that last novel about the young witch from the Chalk, Tiffany.
In some ways that knowledge colors the book.Tiffany has done with her education and is back home serving as the Chalk's witch.
Sadly, strange things seem to be happening, more than just what happens with an senient cheese named Horace, a lawyer who is frog (but who can be paid in beetles) and the Feegles around.In some ways, the novel feels like a good-bye, if not to the Disc than to Tiffany.
While clever, thoughtful, and well-constructed, it suffers from the same problem Pratchett has had in his other recent books: he has fallen too much in love with his characters to truly hurt them.
I realize this is a book for young adults, and so it isn't appropriate to expect the literary equivalent of Werner Herzog.
But compared to 2008's superb Nation, also a book for young adults, which was infused with a sense of legitimate dread and danger from the first page, this novel feels more like a cop-out.
Me ha encantado y se me ha hecho cortísimo. Al leer el epílogo casi se me han saltado unas lagrimillas y es que me ha dado la impresión como que Pratchett se estaba despidiendo ya del personaje de Tiffany, como si supiese que ese iba a ser el último libro que iba a escribir sobre ella y me ha dado mucha mucha pena :((Por otro lado el título me parece precioso y más cuando conoces su verdadero significado al decir Tiffany que "cuando sea vieja se vestirá de medianoche".
This is my favorite Tiffany Aching story so far. The theme is witchhunts, evil and misunderstandings. Both Tiffany and Pratchett are at their full power and compassion. Tiffany finds her match. I loved the full compendium of witches that show up, and run-in with the Ankh-Morpork City Watch. All of it bathed in wise-cracks and hilarious observations, as usual. A new favorite!
Tiffany's grown up some more, and now she's home on the chalk, where she's coming into her own as the local witch.
And the Nac Mac Feegle are into everything, shouting Crivens!Delightful because it gets Tiffany back where she belongs, and because she gets out a bit, enabling Pratchett to introduce her to all sorts of characters, beloved ones from other books, and new ones.
And, everything works out very well indeed, in a most satisfying, and clear, sort of way.This will probably be my favorite Pratchett along with The Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents, and, of course, Good Omens.
I should write a full review of these books, and perhaps at some point I will, but for now I just need to say that Tiffany Aching might be favorite female protagonist of all time. If I ever have a daughter, I will definitely introduce her to Tiffany.
When I read my first Discworld book (the first in the series) there were only 3 published then I think.
I loved Rincewind and the luggage.
I then loved the witches books.
Death too has always been a favourite character of mine.
However when I first read a Tiffany Aching story (I've been reading them in the wrong order!) I came to understand that Pratchett had created one of his best most rounded characters in her.
Yes they work for younger people but the hag business speaks to anyone who is human and listens.
This one is excellent.
