https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774396.Blue_Willow
Blue Willow symbolizes the heart of all of us: we all seek family, friendship, stability, and to fit in. This is one of my favorite books from childhood.
Janey longs for some permanence and finds the only constant thing in her life is nature and the seasons and her treasured willow pattern plate that had once belonged to her biological mother.Although the start was slow and for us the story lacked the magical qualities of our recent read The Velvet Room, which followed a similar theme, we soon became involved with the characters and storyline.
We enjoyed Janey's developing friendship with Lupe, a Mexican girl who's family live in the shack opposite, we enjoyed Janey's relationship with her non biological mum, and of course Bounce Reyburn the baddie of the story livened things up with our desperate hope he will get found out!
It was the first time I had to work to read a book: not because the text was difficult, but because it gave rise to feelings inside of me that were sad and despondent, as I began to identify with the main character, a young girl who is living through the Depression.The title refers to her one and only possession of worth: a Blue Willow plate.
Ultimately friends are found, but not without difficulties.This book expresses, in a manner light enough for tweens to enjoy, but heavy enough for them to empathize, the struggles of the Great Depression.
For a children's novel original published immediately or at least pretty soon after the Great Depression (on which Blue Willow is thematically based) Dorothy Gates' Newbery Honour winning story of hardship, struggle, family perseverance and triumph over the odds reads as surprisingly and as awe-inspiringly modern (presenting, featuring exceedingly well developed, finely nuanced, both internally and externally rich and intensely realistic both main and supportive characters, with even chief villain Bounce Reyburn appearing as not just typecast and cardboard-like) and with an emotionality of feeling that flows deeply, touchingly and above all believably, realistically.
A touching story set in 1930s California about the young daughter of a migrant farm worker. The extreme poverty of the family makes every possession and every happy experience stand out as something very special, often taking on almost magical proportions. Janey loves her blue willow plate because it is the only beautiful thing she owns (actually the only object she owns at all) but also because it represents home and permanence. Great characters and descriptions of agricultural life in 1930s California, and my older copy had very nice illustrations, too.
My mom checked it out from the library for me to read because it was recommended in "Honey for a Child's Heart".
I complained that it was the most boring thing I had ever read, but she had me persevere to the last page.
I still remember the feeling of jubilation I felt when I had finally finished.
Rather, it was joy over having finally completed a miserable task.I now see why it was the book was recommended.
However, nine-year-old me felt that the story was depressing and boring, aside from whatever philosophical value adults might place on it.
Janey longs for a real home where they can stay as long as they want and Janey can place her family heirloom blue willow plate in a place of honor.
Before long, the lively Lupe Romero and her family work their way into Janey's heart.
Will the Larkins ever find a place they can stay as long as they want?
This is a sweet, charming story told from the point-of-view of a young child.
I could relate to Janey and her love for stories and the importance of family heirlooms.
This is just the sort of book I liked as a child.
Janey has one prized possession, a blue willow plate given to her a long time ago.
Thus, when a girl whose father also works in the fields befriends Janey, it is difficult for Janey to trust.Soon the Romero family bonds with Janey and she grows confident, while always knowing the back of her mind that she and her family will be moving along as soon as the cotton crop is finished.When Janey's mother becomes ill and there is no money for a doctor, Janey seeks a local doctor to help, offering him the willow plate.
Janey wishes more than anything to stay in one place, attend a "regular school" and have a home in which to display her most prized possession, a Blue Willow plate.
The meagerness of her possessions forces her to take joy in small things like a trip to a free fair, catching catfish by a river, and being able to borrow a library book.
The book is old and has some outdated notions about society (and particularly a girl or woman's place in it), but that can be overlooked in such a simple, straightforward tale for young children.
I loved this book so much that I bought it forElizabeth as a gift when she was young with areal place setting of Blue Willow China.My sister in-law, Jane Ann had a full service for 12 -the real stufffrom England..... I know she never used it once before she died.I think of her though for some reason when I think of this book
A deeply moving book that stays with you for years or even decades. It is a simple book which teaches you to have hope even though the situation is working against you. Little Janet is everything that symbolises the childhood innocence. It's been a while since I have read this book and I would love to read it again.
I read Blue Willow after reading When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit, another story about a family with no place in the world.
I highly suggest you read When Hitler Stole Pink Rabbit and Blue Willow together to see the comparisons and the issues of migrant and refugee families and to experience how the writers were able to so beautifully and artfully capture the feelings of young children without a home.I love illustrations in children's books but I did not care for the illustration on the front, which I suppose was to update the book so young people would still read it.
Janey thinks she may have found that perfect place, but does she dare believe that this time her family might stay?Published in 1940 and set in the 1930s, Blue Willow is a story about the difficulties faced by many people during the years of the Great Depression.
Through the character of Janey, young readers are given a very personal glimpse into the experience of a poor migrant family which helps drive home the hardships real people were up against during that time.
When she describes the experience of going to the fair, the reader feels like they are beside her, seeing and hearing the same things.
Descriptions of going to town, how special it was to eat out and the experience of Janey buying a coat all did an excellent job of helping me visualize the era.The symbol of the blue willow plate is incredibly well-developed.
In the end, the blue willow plate finds its way back to Janey as she finally has a stable home to display it in, for as long as she wants.

Newberry Honor books such as Blue Willow by Doris Gates espouse the ideals of the American Dream: benefit from the fruits of honest work.
Janey lives the rough life of an itinerant family who is one step from financial disaster as they move from one harvest to the next.
Scant of possessions, yet brimming with hope, Janey longs for a real home, one where she can display her treasure: her mother’s willow plate, a symbol of happier times past, and a promise for better days ahead.Considering its publish date of 1940, the story still holds interest as it touches on the need to belong and to rise above circumstances.
Along with Scout, wee Janey held (and holds) a special place in my heart as a young reader. Revisiting her as a grown up has been a delight. I fell in love with her all over again and came to appreciate her mom in a whole new way. A must read!
A book whose title includes your favorite color (BLUE).The Larkin family who lost their Texas ranch because of the dust bowl are now in California.
Mr. Larkin is working in the cotton fields.
Living nearby is the Romero family.
Mr. Romero works in the vineyards.
One morning young Janey Larkin meets her neighbor Lupe Romero.
Janey is an only child, but she does have a blue willow plate.
Not long after they moved into the shack, the Larkin family met Bounce Reyburn.
He worked for Mr. Anderson who owned the land where their shack was located.
This is a tale about Janey Larkin, the daughter of migrant workers in 1930s California. They arrive at the San Joaquin Valley and set up housekeeping in an abandoned shack. Janey wearily settles in for yet another temporary home as her father works the cotton harvest. The story follows a few months in the family's life, showcasing some of the aspects of the workers' lives. It's a rather pedestrian and predictable tale, but Ms. Gates does do a good job of establishing the setting and making it seem real.
There don't seem to be that many books about the Dust Bowl and migrant workers during the Depression, at least for kids. Bonus for this one--it was published in 1940, when these experiences and stories were still quite fresh.Janey is really just waiting for a place she can call home. More than anything I've read about this time period, this book captures how hard it must have been for kids to always be on the move. She wants to make friends and belong but she can't--because they'll have to move.A charming book that was very satisfying.
Another childhood reread that I spotted when I was at the library last weekend. Most of it wasn't familiar to me, which just made the book a fun reread without any anticipation of what would happen. A sweet story of a poor family migrating from farm to farm and Janey's longing for a place where they can stay "as long as we want to", her one material treasure being a blue willow plate left to her after her mother died.
I can see why this is a Newberry honor book. This book was written in 1940, so I didn't think it would pertain to today's world, but this book is about so much more than a blue willow plate. It is about friendship, relationships, and doing the right thing even if we get it wrong sometimes. There were times when Gates told instead of showed, but overall, I loved this book.
A beautiful story of the depression and itinerant farm life. Very moving to hear about a child who so values one thing.
I read this as a kid, and remember being really moved by the family's heartache and Janie's ingenuity.
I read this book many times. Set in California, 1930s. Life without lots of "stuff." Attention to nature. Love of books and libraries.
I read this book I think in fourth grade and I loved it. I did a book report and got an A. I have never forgotten it.
This was one of my favorite childhood book. It reminds us that home is where the heart is.
It was a wonderful, sad and sweet story and I could realate a little bit.
I don't know why I always think of this book, But I do. Seems I somehow related to Janey as a child. Good book, and obviously unforgettable.
I read much faster than she did, so I was always grabbing "her" library book and reading a chapter or two before she ripped it out of my greedy little fingers.
Then I realised that it was because it reminded me so strongly of the end of The Velvet Room; however, since Snyder's book was published nearly 30 years later, it made me wonder if at some time she had read Blue Willow.My real complaint is that there is minimum interaction between Janey and her age peers.
