https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/890.Of_Mice_and_Men
The title of this novel is only 50% accurate, a very poor effort.
This got me thinking about other novel titles.
You would have to say that such books as The Slap, The Help, The Great Gatsby, Gangsta Granny, Mrs Dalloway and Hamlet have very good titles because they are all about a slap, some help, a Gatsby who was really great, a no good granny, a woman who was married to a guy called Dalloway and a Hamlet.
What a relief when George and Candy come in at the last minute and stop anything bad from happening!
And isn't it nice that the scare changes both Curley and his wife so that they have a much better marriage and new appreciation for each other.Plus, it leads to the great moment when Curley is so grateful that he fronts George, Lennie and Candy the money to finally buy the ranch of their dreams.
Oh, and that last scene with George and Candy on the porch of their new home while Lennie tends the rabbits brought a tear to my eye.What's that you say?
So yeah.I suppose pretty much everyone knows the heartbreaking story of Lennie and George.
I think that says something about the masterful writing - where the story takes over so much that you keep reading despite the clear sense of where it is going, without having to rely on suspense or twists - instead, going forward just on the impact of the story itself"I ought to of shot that dog myself, George.
And I felt bad for the whole bunch of men who had names and stories, and a woman who got one but not the other."You God damn tramp," be said viciously.
Curley's wife, the unwilling almost-antagonist/victim of this story.
I remember reading this at school at being completely uninterested in the story.
All in all we were told what to see in the book before we even began reading.
Lenny and George naively dream of the farm; they dream of a retreat where they can reside in friendship without having to answer to any master.
He doesn’t want to end up like his dog: put down because of his years.
They’re all the time talkin’ about it, but it’s jus’ in their head.”Indeed, the American dream doesn’t exist in this book.
The farm is just a dream.
“Trouble with mice is you always kill 'em. ”  Breathtaking prose, touching characters and a heart breaking ending. Who said only lengthy novel can make an impact?
It's the most heavenly thing he can imagine.George and Lennie are hired as field hands at a ranch in California, and the foreshadowings of disaster start to come thick and fast.
The hands are sure that they only need a month or two of wages to achieve their plans of a place of their own, but the best-laid schemes of mice and men gang oft agley.I was expecting to read about shattered dreams, but I was surprised and touched by the strength of the theme of true friendship--not just the friendship between George and Lennie, but also the friendship and understanding offered by Slim, the ranch foreman.
608. Of Mice And Men, John SteinbeckOf Mice and Men is a novella written by author John Steinbeck. Published in 1937, it tells the story of George Milton and Lennie Small, two displaced migrant ranch workers, who move from place to place in California in search of new job opportunities during the Great Depression in the United States.عنوانها: موشها و آدمها؛ نویسنده: جان استاینبک (اشتاین بک)؛ انتشاراتیهای: اساطیر، امیرکبیر، کانون معرفت، زرین، مدبر، علی فرهنگی، سعیدی، چکاوک، گلبرگ برزین، جنگل، در
Of Mice And Men, John SteinbeckOf Mice and Men is a novella written by author John Steinbeck.
لنی، از کودکی از نوازش چیزهای نرم خوشش میآید، و زور بازوی بسیار دارد.
دچار دردسر میشود، به ویژه هنگامی که زن پسر ارباب، کرلی، از او میخواهد تا موهایش را نوازش کند.
لنی ناخواسته زن بیچاره را می‌کشد، و از ترس می‌گریزد.
کرلی خشمگین، با مردانش در پی یافتن و از پای درآوردن لنی، راهی میشوند.
جرج هم به رغم سوگندش برای پشتیبانی از لنی به گروه میپیوندد.
It's the way Steinbeck describes things that gets me."Crooks, the negro stable buck, had his bunk in the harness room; a little shed that leaned off the wall of the barn.
Though the story great itself, the reason I will come back to this book is for the little things, the very things that have made me love Steinbeck so much.
I first read Of Mice And Men my sophomore year of high school, when it was a required reading in Mrs. Beeler's class.
The characters are among Steinbeck's best, painted in such a crystal clear vision of the time.It's a near perfect short story, and one that I will surely revisit throughout my life.
One novella I did read while in school but have a fuzzy memory of is Of Mice and Men. With a square on this year's classic bingo board being read a group read that you haven't read yet, I decided that it was as good a time as any to revisit this work of Steinbeck's through adult eyes.Near the Salinas River and Soledad, California, two nomadic farm hands named George and Lennie stake out their existence in life.
Yet, placing George and Lennie in modern times is hearsay and their relationship ended in tragedy with Steinbeck placing George in a precarious situation which he would have to dwell upon for the rest of his life.
When the men finally arrive for work, George does the talking."He ain't no cuckoo," said George.
It's like the difference between drinking water from a garden hose that's been drying in the sun with who knows what crawling inside it and one day, someone hands you a bottle of Perrier.-- While most authors have been around people, with Steinbeck, I'm always left with the undeniable impression he watched and achieved a wisdom about people.
This is a story about George Milton and Lennie Small, two migrant ranch workers, who move from place to place in California in search of new job opportunities during the Great Depression in the United States.
George Milton is intelligent but uneducated and Lennie Small is extremely physically strong but mentally disabled.
Another worker on the farm offers to help pay to buy a farm with George and Lennie.
When she starts to panic and scream Lennie becomes nervous and breaks her neck… This leads to a very tragic ending...Of course, when reading a classic novel I have to research the author and find out "more."This book was based on Steinbeck's own experiences as a bindlestiff in the 1920s.
"Yet each man kills the thing he loves..." Oscar Wilde's prison poem came to mind not only for its literal truth in the context of Lenny and George, but also because it evokes the brutal isolation of the whole cast of characters, each one of them stuck in their separate reality and unable to connect with each other.
Breaking out of the isolation, enjoying freedom and partnership - those are powerful ideas."Yet each man kills the thing he loves..."The domino effect of Lenny's inability to control his strength or his craving for softness and love makes all dreamers wake up to a nightmare without end.
They both dream of owning a rabbit farm and “living off the fatta the lan’ ”, an ideal that Lennie begs George to repeat over and over again with the exact same words creating the mesmerizing effect of an invocation or a soothing lullaby that equals a spell capable of transforming the inconceivable into a tangible possibility.Alternating the romantic with the myopic vision of hope and gloom, the story is shaped by the intense friendship between these disparate characters and their legitimate aspirations to achieve a respectable livelihood, creating an expansive allegory for the dehumanization the itinerant labourers were victims of during the years ensuing the Great Depression.
A story of marginalized men and women who live on the fringes of an impassive society and navigate the stirred waters of human dignity and animalization, reason and instinct, courage and weariness, narcotic dreams and hopeful illusions.
I think it's tradition for me to finish a classic and think, "That was good, but I wonder what insights and symbolism I missed out on since I didn't read this for class and have a professor telling me about it." It's also just really hard to review classics in general, because whereas "normal" books I can pick apart the plot, characters, pace, etc., there's something different about these.
I feel like I always expect classics to be deep and mindblowing with huge world-shifting themes, but in reality, it's totally normal to be disappointed by them.
In this case, I spent most of this book wondering what the point was.
Of Mice and Men is the story of two men, George and Lennie, working toward their dream--essentially to retire by acquiring a farm of their own.
And being so short, and how it reads so easy, and how relatable it is to have dreams and have them ripped away for reasons almost uncontrollable, Of Mice and Men is a masterpiece unlike anything else ever written.
شاهکار فوقالعاده ای از روابط انسانی و سرگذشت غم انگیز دو دوست کارگر.. نثر نمایشنامه ای و ریتم بالای این اثر بهمراه شخصیت پردازی فوقالعاده و گیرایی روایت، خوانش اثر رو بشدت لذت بخش میکنه و درنهایت پایان تراژیک کتاب هست که جای هیچ بحثی رو باقی نمیگذاره..
شاهکار فوق‌العاده ای از روابط انسانی و سرگذشت غم انگیز دو دوست کارگر.. نثر نمایشنامه ای و ریتم بالای این اثر بهمراه شخصیت پردازی فوق‌العاده و گیرایی روایت، خوانش اثر رو بشدت لذت بخش میکنه و درنهایت پایان تراژیک کتاب هست که جای هیچ بحثی رو باقی نمیگذاره..
i hated this book.steinbeck is crap.children should not be forced to read it.ok, i really just don't like steinbeck's aesthetic. i dislike the killing of innocent animals, the dehumanization of the mentally retarded--and don't try to tell me that lenny isn't marginalized here. the book is depressing and directionless, and not in the ironic waiting-for-godot sort of way. the descriptions are flat, emotionless, and dessicated.however, curly's wife is awesome. she's just so bizarre and pathetic, so out of place. i love her.
I had read this back in high school when it was mandated. I vaguely remembered the story when I started reading it, many, many, many moons later and it is without a doubt a great classic tale.
A small book with a big heart; actually it was George and Lennie with the big hearts. Two friends, migrant workers in California during the Depression, looking out for one another, trying to scrap by and save enough money for a place of their own. Their big dream can't overcome their human frailty or the harsh and unforgiving time they lived in. If not for the The Grapes of Wrath this would be Steinbeck's masterpiece.4.5 stars

Otherwise why bother reading a book such as this one.Lennie dying alone like a dog haunts me.
I catch myself being suspicious of what people want, want, want from everybody and those expectations and then I remember George and how it wasn't all bad having someone else to think about like he did for Lennie.
I get why George wanted his little place.Read this the first time in a middle school science class by holding the book under the desk and ever so slightly ducking my head to read my lap.
(Any time they talked about their little place with Candy made me squirm in my seat in excitement.) (I stopped reading books under the desk after that.
Maybe I'm just a glutton for punishment...but I can't be the only one who's had such a visceral reaction to this story.Lennie and George.
George and Lennie.
Two lonely men who live on the fringe of society, desperately clinging to a far off dream that could bring them comfort and stability.
George was given a reason to live, even if that reason was a burden that felt like a cross to bear.
His loyalty made him feel responsible for Lennie no matter what, which is the mark of a beautiful soul.Hope and the death of it.
Or rather, clinging to the last shred of hope lest your dignity dies with it.
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to Of Mice and Men, a novel written in 1937 by John Steinbeck. What a heartbreaking book... many students in American high schools read this one around 9th or 10th grade, and it provokes such sensitive topics to be discussed. A quick summary: Lenny and George are drifters looking for work. Lenny is a little slow and has a few disabilities that weren't addressed when he was younger, likely due to time time period (early 20th century) when they had ability to ignore
Book Review
Lenny tends to hold on to things a little too tightly when he's scared.
One day, a woman pushes him a little too far, more than he's capable of understanding, and he reacts in fear.
No matter if you know the end, you still need to read the story to see how people treat one another because they are different or they aren't perceptive enough to understand their own consequences.
This books helps people understand what happens when you lose control.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
The feeling I'm talking about stems from the sense that we can never fully share the truth of who we are, we can never talk the next soul of our inner happenings, the loneliness of this kind eats our being and we device heavens, If not in this life, but in the life to come, we don’t want to be this alone, but there are some stories who teach us the inevitability of it, no matter how far we travel in pursue of a dream land, we will always be alone!
I never knew a short book could drain me emotionally this much.Of Mice and Men is a book that I think everyone should read, at least once.
And I think that this is all a person should know going into this book.
I don't think I've ever read a book that was just so real, and so heartbreaking at the same time.
Even though it was short, every single character felt so realistic.
خوبه که گاهی اوقات به حال این آدم ها غبطه بخوریم و بدونیم که همیشه بیشتر دونستن نمی تونه ما رو خوشحال تر کنه، که اصلا خیلی وقت ها با خبر بودن از همه ی خبرهای دنیا، درد و رنج بیشتری برامون داره تا بی خبر بودن ازشونخلاصه که توی سخت ترین و بدترین شرایط زندگی هم میشه صاحب رویاهای قشنگ باشیم و در عین نداشتنِ همه چیز، مالک همه ی این دنیای پهناور باشیم----یادگاری از کتاب آدم واسه اینکه خوب باشه شعور نمی خواد، گاهی به نظر من میاد که آدم شعور نداشته باشه بهتره.
I don't know how to express adequately how much I loved this book.
You know everybody thinks, "Oh Chrissie, she just appreciates non-fiction." Well that is not true, but I do set high standards.
Sure, non-fiction you can count on for teaching, for providing knowledge you lacked before.
Because you can learn something it is seldom a waste of time, but rarely can a book of non-fiction move you emotionally.
Non-fiction doesn’t.
One cannot read this book and not be moved.
Usually I want to myself imagine how a person saying this or that might sound.
ثمّ موت أسود قاتم .إنّ الأشخاص الذين هم على شاكلتنا، و يخدمون في المزارع، ليس لهم في هذا العالم ظهر و لا أهل ..
ستكون لنا حديقة ..
و سيكون لنا قن بين الأرانب و الدجاج ..
و حين يبدأ هطول الأمطار في الشتاء سنتوقف عن العمل ..و إذ ذاك سيكون لنا وقت للراحة و الإستجمام ..
و سنصغي إلى صوت الرذاذ، و سنكون في أقصى درجات السعادة و الغبطة.."و ماذا سيحدث ؟ستجد نفسك فجأة و قد كبرت ..
ستجد نفسك فجأة و أنت تنظر إلى السنين التي مضت ..
أو نهائية لأنها تتغذى على السنين ..
Mă bucur că măcar în cărţi mai pot întâlni asemenea personaje pline de candoare (dar care au să cadă, la urma urmei, în abisul fatalităţii).Al meu alter ego tindea să creadă, parcurgând primele două capitole (fiind şase în total), că opera lui Steinbeck e dedicată exclusiv posterităţii americane.
Esenţa romanului este constituită de caracterul lui Lennie şi mai puţin de relaţie de prietenie dintre cele două personaje antinomice: Lennie şi George.
Cred că Slim, din roman, intuieşte grăitor caracterul lui Lannie: "-E băiat bun, spuse Slim.
Pe lângă caracterul lui Lannie, se poate sesiza în roman şi aspiraţia lor spre propria lor casă (cu un porc, o vacă şi câteva găini.
But, nihilism leaves me cold...Enjoy if it's you...but (and I've used this quote before) this book typifies "life is hard and then you die".
Who cares how well the story is written that gets you there.The very quality of the writing here made the experience worse for me.
It's true he was, and the message in the story he relates here carries that much more weight.
So, I leave my rating as it is because my experience here remains a 1 star experience.
So, as I said for you who love this book, and I know some...I'm happy for you, I don't and I can't really recommend it.
