https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227941.Jemima_J
Five reasons why this book is dreadful:a) The heroine, Jemima, is constantly described as being morbidly obese and too fat to function in society.
Jane Green, the author, mentions several times that Jemima can't fit into chairs.
I swear, that's what the book says.d) The "dreamy" love interest only likes her after she's lost 100 pounds.e) It borrows every single cliche from The Big Book Of Lame Cliches.
I'll give it half a check, as using "humor" to describe these "jokes" would cause a rift in the universe.
I think the two of you have the potential to be great friends, as you have so much more in common than just your last names (distant, long-lost relatives, perhaps?).After all, you’re both single women, journalists, Londoners, traumatized by eccentric mothers, habitual dieters, smartasses, Silk Cut smokers, and prone to sleeping with handsome bastards while waiting for Mr. Right to come along.However, you have a much better sense of humor, I must say.
You could include her in yours with very little effort.In return, she might bring some much-needed common sense to the group.
In Jemima J, Jane Green glorifies anorexia and then tries to claim that the main character is merely "obsessed" with exercising, even though she is clearly not eating.
Jemima loses a massive amount of weight (about 80 lbs.) in a short period of time, and all of a sudden, men can't keep their eyes off of her.The plot is lame, even for Chick Lit. Fat girl falls in love with unattainable guy, chats with American hunk online, decides to lose weight to go visit said hunk, things go downhill from there, unattainable guy falls for the ex-fat girl, happily ever after.
The main character's obvious eating disorder is glorified, encouraged, and applauded.
If I were a lesser woman here is the message I would've gleaned from this shitfest: "The only way to be happy, advance your career, find a hot man, and make your skanky roommates jealous is: eat lettuce and work out fanatically.
Also, lying on the internet is ok!"Southern California is portrayed as if the person writing has never stepped off a plane at LAX before.
Two characters at two different points couldn't find so much as a good fiction selection because there were "How to Write a Screenplay" titles floor to ceiling.
A lot of the other reviews I've read trash the "message" of this book about fat people, losing weight, etc....
I found Jemima to be pretty "real" -- most people don't initially go right for the "eat reasonably and exercise" theory of weight loss because of all of the quick fixes that are available.
I also don't think this book promotes the idea that fat people have to lose weight to be attractive; what I do think is that Green does a pretty good job of illustrating the expectations of society as well as the ways social pressure/observations can affect a person.
"Sometimes in life, you have to make things happen. That you can change your life if you're willing to let go of the old and actively look for the new. That even if you're on the right track, you'll get run over if you just sit there.”  5 UGLY DUCKLING STARS.This is my ultimate go to book, it's like comfort pages for my book soul. I fell in love with Jane Green's perfectly written novels some years ago in my late teens and I have read and re read the novel so much that my paperback version is l
I fell in love with Jane Green's perfectly written novels some years ago in my late teens and I have read and re read the novel so much that my paperback version is lovingly creased and well worn.
I can't express how much this book touched me, makes me laugh and fall in love, over and over.
This fast paced plot and quirky love novel is one of my all time favourites and if your a fan of Jane Green then you will fall in love as much as I did.5 HUGE STARS.
Jemima, an "ugly duckling" (basically a woman who is plus-size, doesn't have highlights, and dresses comfortably instead of fashionably), is in love with her co-worker.
So Jemima starts online chatting with a hot guy from California who, for the obvious ironic twist, owns a gym and is hyper into fitness.
(Whatever happened to "you're great, just the way you are"?) And of course, the guy from California wants to meet her.
She starts going to the gym.
So Jemima becomes basically emaciated, meets the hot guy in California, and they start a relationship.
Okay, here's the thing: there is really no way I can write why this book is so awful without sounding bitter.
Well, I've heard it said also that only fat girls hate this book.
In the book, however, a woman of that size has twelve chins, waddles when she walks, is too fat to sit in a chair, can't fit into cars....
I was somewhat irritated by the way in which Jemima reaches her goals and I personally think that she did'nt need to go to such drastic measure to lose weight in order to become comfortable with herself.
True, by losing weight, it did allow her to experience things she would'nt have by being overweight,however I feel very offended that Jane Green would assume that in order to find love and happiness, one has to find a combination of starvation and excessive exercising.
Although I wasn't completely comfortable with the ending message love and happiness await you if you lose weight, I enjoyed the book very much and I would definitely read it again.
You should turn yourself into an exercise fiend, get cute clothes, learn to do makeup (because fat chicks don't know how, obviously), and you'll land yourself the man of your dreams.The thing is, though, that's not what I think this story was about.
It's a STORY.Jemima was a generally sympathetic woman, who, at the start of her story, is very unhappy.
In general, the story was engaging and amusing and fun, lighthearted reading.
The lesson that I took away from the thing was not "Hit the Gym and Win" but figure how who you are and what makes you happy - go for that.
After reading this book I came up with a pretty mathematical formula.Chick lit = crapI employ this equation whenever I'm browsing for books and it saves me time and money.
I felt that at the end of the book she made a HUGE statement.
I felt so empowered and inspired when I finished the book that I have read it 4 times.
People say you should love yourself EXACTLY how you are, but for some thats not possible because what you look like ISNT who you are (fat, thin, transgendered, etc) and you must work to become the person on the outside that you feel like on the inside.
As a whole, I feel this book speaks to those people.

I LOVED this book - and here's why.1) If you've ever struggled with weight (and everyone from a size 2 to a size 20 has), you can identify with Jemima J's character.
Everyone who hates the story because the "fat" girl has to lose the weight for the "dreamy" guy to notice her is fighting a losing battle.
Now, he flirts with me incessantly, he makes it a point to see me once a day, and I feel like this could go in the direction I dream for it to.
It doesn't take long to see that Jemima is The Perfect Man for Ben, but Green leads us on another route for a while as Ben leaves their dead-end job and Jemima begins cybersexing with an LA hunk called Brad, although the degree that we follow Ben around his BRILLIANT SUCCESS as a journalist indicates that we're not done with him.
(I am not saying that it wouldn't be a dealbreaker; I know very little about such things, but as a novel whose parable is supposed to be about judging by inner beauty, I couldn't help but feel that Jane Green was buying into the awful judging that her characters appeared to shirk.
This is a train wreck, which I, of course, couldn't put down.
Maybe if I hadn't majored in English in college I wouldn't have been driven nuts by this, but it really got on my nerves.
Some of the things she wrote would have fit well for a TV show narrated by a third party, but to write these comments in there as the author was just weird.
I didn't like how the author got from A to Z, but I liked the actual story.
I won't tell you what happens in case you want to read it.
Maybe it's a British thing and I just wouldn't understand.
And that is the major thing that frustrated me about this book.
I'm a larger girl, and while yes, I see the points made about this book having problems with fat-phobia and eating disorders, I think it was more about loving yourself.
Granted JJ went through a lot to get to that point, and none of it was realistic, but towards the end she saw what she was doing to herself and attempted to fix it by adding ten pounds back on.All in all, not my favorite book that deals with this type of thing, but it was an alright and easy read.
Loved this one as a teen when it came out..
but reading it as an adult..not so much.
Jemima basically works out, and becomes anorexic.
And the characters are pretty one dimensional.
Lack of depth and substance basically.
I also hated the girl-on-girl hate, the judgemental thoughts about each other were terrible.
I also didn't understand the third point of view that would pop up every now and then, it was quite annoying.
I also didn't realize how similar this is to CINDERELLA, so yep proceed with caution while reading this one..or you know, you can throw it against the wall to vent out your frustrations lol
Rather, I'm just going to call it quick, breezy fun, and I'm unashamedly giving it four stars for being absolutely perfect in the chick lit category.
Yes, I know I'm supposed to hate this sort of book, and I usually do,* but while every other Jane Green book has followed the crappy, uninspired chick lit formula, Jemima J is essentially the book version of comfort food.
You know what's going to happen about six pages in, but um who cares - it's so much fun to read!
This is one of the worst books I've ever read, if not the worst book I've ever read. As someone who has read over 600 books, this is not something I say lightly.I was at the beach with no book for the weekend and my sister had this, there's no way I would have finished it otherwise.
I was super hesitant about this book.
It featured another MC that was "overweight" and I just didn't want to have that character constantly complain about that.
After reading this book..
Jemina Jones was such a frustrating character to like.
Things I hated about this book:I get it..
It's good to work out like 3-4 times a week..
and Jemina is all of a sudden a hot piece of ass.
but hey, could just be me.Overall, I hated this book.
I never want to hear about Jemina..
I hate my life right now after reading this.
This is a good chick lit that deals with body issue. With so many headlines saying love yourself, this book is actually telling just that. love yourself. Throw in a good looking Ben does not hurt either. For me this book is about self confidence. Trust yourself and love yourself. Cause everyone is unique.
I'll see if it's as awesome as I remember!This was my reaction as I finished the book up today: lol.I mean, I'm all for size-acceptance in fiction.
One e-boyfriend later, Jemima is well on her way to Kate Hudson proportions much to the chagrin of her evil roommates (seriously - who the hell would live with bitches like that?) in preparation of a trip to LA.Lo and behold, LA boyfriend is not all he's cracked up to be!
Yeah, it went there.The only thing that keeps this book from blowing like a blowing thing is, perhaps, Jane Green's writing.
is one of that.Jemima Jones is a fat girl that loves one of her colleagues named Ben Williams.
the story upgraded when the new office program for the employees to have an internet class makes Jemima, Geraldine and Ben close.Geraldine is soooooo kind that I love her so much!
in her desperate time, Ben comes to California for his job.
and when finally he meets again with Jemima..this is a very romantic story how finally you find your love and your self identity in one time..
Jemima is fat and she hooks up with a guy online because the people she knows IRL don't 'want' her, but her supposedly-good friend enables her in sending a photoshopped picture of a thin girl with Jemima's pretty face.
So, heartbroken and fairly desperate, Jemima eating-disorders herself into that person so she can be all this online romeo thinks she is.
It's disgusting and sad, and even though there's a twist at the end as to who Jemima (or "JJ") ends up with, it's still a terrible message to send about acceptance and loving oneself -- and in the right way to go about being the best You you can be.I do not recommend this book.
Jemima J holds a special place in my heart just because it was my first Jane Green book and though there are problems galore with the entire story-line and ending.
Maybe it's because part of me wanted to give her a hug and tell her that her weight isn't her problem, it is her crippling self esteem.So below you will see my comments on the book and my friend's comments which seriously had me wondering if I just have really bad taste in books when I don't see some of the problems that she did.
Jemima starts off the book as an overweight, miserable, and insecure woman who's in love with her colleague and can't get the job she wants because her manager is a pig who promotes less qualified but more attractive people over her.
Jemima makes a decision to lose weight and change her life, but then becomes so obsessed with exercise and restrictive eating that it's clear to everyone reading this book that she has an eating disorder.
At the end of the book Jemima "makes a decision" to stop being so obsessed with eating and that's that.
If Jemima was a real person who ate the way she does, she should seriously weigh far more than 217.
If you're fat, be ashamed of it, lie about it to people who can't see you anyway, and then diet and exercise like mad until you're thin.
By the end, I was literally sitting on the edge of my seat going "OHMIGOD, JEMIMA, TURN THE H*** AROUND!!!"It still gets 5 stars, even though if Jemima was a real person who ate the way she does, she should seriously weigh far more than 217.
All in all, this is a lovely book, and I will definitely be adding it to my hoard for keeps.
The book in no way empowers plus size women.
If at all it manages to do anything, it is to demean them, make them feel sorry about their body; Encourages food disorders and anorexic behavior, reinforcing the societal belief that only thin girls get dreamy boys.
It is disheartening to see that in the times that we live in, where girls/women from a very young age are constantly told that they are beautiful only if they meet certain set standards, Jemima J reinforces all those stereotypes n more.
Again demeans someone for being interested or "turned on" by plus size women.
