https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82328.Amplified_Bible
Finally, here's an intermediate situation, a section of Psalm 139 in which the AMP offers some extra information: 5 You have enclosed me behind and before,And [You have] placed Your hand upon me.6 Such [infinite] knowledge is too wonderful for me;It is too high [above me], I cannot reach it.7 Where can I go from Your Spirit?Or where can I flee from Your presence?8 If I ascend to heaven, You are there;If I make my bed in Sheol (the nether world, the place of the dead), behold, You are there.Compare it to the New Revised Standard Version of the bible (NRSV), which has it: 5 You hem me in, behind and before, and lay your hand upon me.6 Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is so high that I cannot attain it.7 Where can I go from your spirit?
I just have to share a sample of what I mean.For the general public of the United States (where I live) the beginning of the 23rd Psalm is one of the most familiar quotations from not only The Bible but from *any* book: "The Lord is my shepherd" Those words are rich, powerful, meaningful to many people in many circumstances.
Here are those same words "amplified": "The Lord is my shepherd [to feed, guide, and shield me]" When I read the Amplified Bible, I am less likely to rush through the verses and passages that are most familiar to me.
I've read the Amplified version three times from cover to cover (2002, 2005, 2008)Basically representative of a literal "word-for-word" translation drawing on various previous English translations such as Wycliff and Tyndale as well as Bible dictionaries, lexicons, commentaries, etc. for amplification. Based on the American Standard Version of 1901. The Amplified version says of itself: "Not an attempt to duplicate what has been achieved by previous translators nor is it intended to be a substit
I've read the Amplified version three times from cover to cover (2002, 2005, 2008)Basically representative of a literal "word-for-word" translation drawing on various previous English translations such as Wycliff and Tyndale as well as Bible dictionaries, lexicons, commentaries, etc.
Nay, the vsed it, (as it is apparent, and as Saint Hierome and most learned men doe confesse) which they would not haue done, nor by their example of vsing it, so grace and commend it to the Church, if it had bene vnworthy the appellation and name of the word of God. And whereas they vrge for their second defence of their vilifying and abusing of the English Bibles, or some pieces thereof, which they meete with, for that heretikes (forsooth) were the Authours of the translations, (heretikes they call vs by the same right that they call themselues Catholikes, both being wrong) wee marueile what diuinitie taught them so.
This is not a review of the Bible.
After all, what right can I possibly have to review the Bible?
No, the way this really works is that I let the Bible review me?
How deeply am I hiding it in my heart?
How closely am I following its precepts?
Unfortunately, there is no way that I could rate 5 stars.
Yes, I am growing, but I've still got a long ways to go.
This is now my 63rd time reading the Bible through cover to cover.
Each time I find that there is more to learn.
It's definitely a very enjoyable one and I looked forward to reading it every evening.The maps were useful and quite a few times I found myself turning to look at each map as I was reading the text.
In the book I have there was a point where part of the text had been accidentally put in twice, but it wasn't really confusing.The text used parentheses to note additional meanings, brackets to clarify the words and make the text flow.
The parantheses and brackets took a little to get used to, but in the end made the text more enjoyable.This Bible version is definitely a keeper; I will very likely read the Amplified Bible again at some point.
"The Book" is the worlds greatest Book!Unfortunately whoever perpared this e-book edition did a particularly poor job in its presentation.From the contents we should be able to "tap" a book and jump to that book.
It would also be extremely good to be able to then have a list of the verse numbers and be able to "tap" a number and go to the verse.It would be absolutely super IF there were a "search" option, to be able to search for a book, chapter and verse, or a word or phrase.Unfortunately this e-version, provides NONE of these so necessary features.To get from the "contents" to a verse is a painfully slow process of page turning, scrolling.
No, I still haven't managed to read through the entire Bible from cover to cover...most of it, but still having some trouble with Leviticus. :P Anyway, unlike any other book, this is obviously something you keep reading and reading, and you're never done with it. I love the Amplified version; a friend suggested it once and I tried it out just to see if I would agree (was a die-hard NIV fan before), and I do. Very good; I love the extra definitions in parenthesis...it really helps. And I love the cover art!!
The Amplified Bible can be very daunting to read for some because it gives explanation in the text. It is a dynamic equivalent so it tells you what the bible means as much as what it says. The great benefit of this lies in the fact that biblical languages very rich in meaning so the idea is that nothing is lost in the translation. Very good for supplementing understanding of a passage, but I would not recommend this as your only bible.
I prefer the King James version - and for accuracy and study would recommend KJV above any other.That said, I see the value of reading different translations - this one is a helpful tool but I have found that all those synonyms can actually distort the meaning in places, and make the flow of reading a bit odd.
I am learning about how God works in the hearts of men. I am learning what ways things are taught, learning about the ten commandments, and the golden rule, and the blessings that we get from following the words of the Lord. It is a blessing to me in my life. I love it!
Sometimes I still read this version of the Bible when I want to take a break from reading the KJV.
I find the Amplified Bible very helpful when studying the Word of God. It lists the different word translations so you can get a good picture of scripture meanings.
The Amplified Bible takes what most Bibles say and amplifies it - hence the name. For example you may read John 3:16 where it says: "For God so loved the world...." Well, the Amplified Bible adds to it and says: "For God so GREATLY loved and dearly prized the world..." Something similar happens with every verse in the Bible.
This is my favorite version of the Bible! It brings out the original meanings of the words right in the text. I use different versions when I study but I've been reading this the most since I discovered it in 2002.
I used this version of the Bible for the entire year to glean a deeper and richer understanding of God’s powerful Word! I highly recommend the mature believer to study this version to help God’s Word come alive in a deeper way!!
Good place to start for context, I've since moved onto YLT.
Great translation. Couldn't get into the characters, though. Everybody dies.
I don't know, it didn't seem any louder to me.
A new perspective on familiar themes!
I try to read the Bible for at least 15 minutes a night before I go to bed to relax my mind, focus on God before bed, and just feel at peace with whatever happened during the day knowing God is fully in control and whatever mistakes I have made can be corrected with the help of God and He can get me back on the right path.
I have read a few different versions of the Bible from cover to cover and each one was opened my eyes to different things and helped me to see things and understand them in ways I haven't before and this Bible did exactly that.
Hopefully, the "Amplifying" work will continue.
Tens of thousands of hours into the original Greek and Hebrew meanings of words went into making this version of the bible.As you are reading, the meanings of the words are in parenthesis right behind the words.
Now I see that lots of things are vanity, and it opened up what it means to "take God's name in vain" to me.That being said, I hope the work for revised editions continues, as one of my favorite novels is East of Eden.
Cain and Abel and being marked by our sin.Hopefully this review will help anyone interested in this version of the bible.
As a Christian, I believe the Bible to be the Word of God. To begin to understand the Bible, you have to know who is being talked about and/or to whom a passage refers, you need to know the nature of God as shown by Jesus (went about doing good and never was it said He harmed anyone), you also need to know who is doing the speaking (not all is God saying it but some is a record of what people have said), and you need to know that God is a Holy God but also is Love.
Psalm 19: 1-21 The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament shows and proclaims His handiwork.2 Day after day pours forth speech, and night after night shows forth knowledge.Ephesians 2:1010 For we are God’s [own] handiwork (His workmanship), recreated in Christ Jesus, [born anew] that we may do those good works which God predestined (planned beforehand) for us [taking paths which He prepared ahead of time], that we should walk in them [living the good life which He prearranged and made ready for us to live].
When I was first introduced to this version thirty (gulp..has it been that long?!) years ago, I didn't like it because I thought it was adding to the Biblical text and o my, you can't do that!
It took me a long time to understand that all the extra text is clarification of the original: where the English language is inadequate to explain the original meaning.
This reading wasn't to study the text, but I had my study Bible alongside so that if there were particular verses that added new meaning for me, I could make the margin note in my NIV study Bible.
First let me say that the beginning or at some time during the year, I try to pick up a new Bible. Last year we had a home fire and I lost my set of Bibles that I had for a very long time. The beginning of this year I have started rebuilding my Bible shelf, starting with this one. For one I Love the cover of this one, Amplified Bible. It is the hard back and was:To read more of my review:Breath of Life
I absolutely love the Amplified Bible! The synonyms listed on many hard to understand words aid the reader in understanding exactly what the scripture says. This is THE Bible to use when doing an in depth study. Take note that this Bible is a little harder to read than most; however, when doing Bible studies it is the best!
Overall, I would say that this translation can be helpful as a reference tool for comparing with other versions when doing Bible Study Because of the way it attempts to give fuller renderings of the original languages where it is difficult to use one word to express the meaning of the Hebrew or Greek, the readability is sacrificed.
This version is great for study, research, understanding, or digging deeper, more in depth as in for satisfying a desire to more fully and completely knowing what the Bible says and or could have said.(I amplified my recommendation as an example of the Amplified version... it is a bit redundant.. and says the same thing over and over again... and again.)Truthfully, I really like it.
Good study Bible or just to read through.
The Amplified Bible definitely adds to the English versions, but it sometimes OVER amplifies to the point where it's meaning may be stretched beyond the meaning in context of a passage. Also, some use this as a main Bible or like it is 100% accurate. I like it but don't recommend it as your main Bible.
