https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/602948.The_Glass_Bees
Çok yakında Jaguar Prospero Kitaplığı'nda...
Ernst Jünger is perhaps the only author of a WWI book who seems to have enjoyed the experience - or at least felt more alive in the midst of human suffering.
But as the horse was made obsolete by the car and the tank, Jünger makes hay about societal obsolescence, or even human obsolescence.
In the more negative sense, I am reminded of Walter Benjamin's thought on Mechanical Reproduction, or Kafka's Penal Colony, and this narrator approaches the idea from a different set of first principles.Zapparoni warns us to 'beware the bees' - glass and ceramic bees in his garden which are more efficient than regular bees - replacing and superseding the creation of life itself.
none of which was true.This fascinating book is a prolonged mediation on the problem of modernity qua Technik …, placed like a nut, inside a brief narrative shell – much like Bernhard’s The Loser – though the narrative voice is sharper, restless, insightful, and far less neurotic then Bernhard… something of a cross at times, as I commented before, between Chandler and Céline.
It is the product of an intelligent, ruthlessly honest, and restless mind.The book was written in 1957, when Jünger was 62.
Captain Richard is looking for work and finds it--somehow--at the very high-tech factory of the robot manufacturer, Zapparoni.
This man, an entrepreneur, has revolutionized modern life with his robots.
Nothing is done as it once was for his robots have permeated virtually every aspect of life and business.
The narrator is a former cavalry man still stung by the loss of his profession in World War I.
More generally he is not sure how it is possible for him to be a man in this radically changed world.
Many around him find their purpose in fascism, but Captain Richard rejects that ideologically riven path.
При всій повазі це неймовірно нудна книжка не варта витраченого на часу. При всій повазі до автора це ідельна книга для людей із безсонням три рядки і ви вже спите...


Ернст Юнґер, народжений 1895 року, дивує вже тим, що прожив 102 роки, тож це без сумніву людина-епоха, адже він був свідком XX століття фактично від і до, ця думка вже приголомшує, чи не так?
Цей досвід став основою для його, можливо, найвідомішої книги "В сталевих грозах", яка є одним із найвагоміших творів про ту війну (вона вийшла українською кілька років тому).
Щоб ви зрозуміли ступінь цього ретро, оцініть хоча той факт, що для обох — автора роману і його героя — у війську основним транспортом були коні.
Ага, треба ще, певно, пояснити, що для пана автора сюжет — діло десяте.
What does morality mean in an age of weapons of mass destruction, anyway?
Where thinkers use ends to justify horrifying means?The Glass Bees may be short in terms of word count, but expect to take a longer-than-expected time to ingest it.
The book's an extended meditation on humanity's place in an era of rapid technological change.It's interesting to read criticism of Junger's work from 1957, the time of publishing.
Junger's work's prophetic.Is it a greater evil to blast human bodies into fragments with mass weapons, or to dehumanize through technological and aesthetic "improvement" of nature's less predictable models?
Junger keeps the reflection fodder coming throughout.I loved The Glass Bees.
Again, it’s an interesting work, but by splitting its attention in the manner that it does The Glass Bees sacrifices story for philosophical musings of varying quality.Captain Richards, an old soldier who has always tried to live honorably and has failed to advance his career because of it, goes to a job interview with a reclusive inventor/industrialist named Zapparoni, during which he sees some things that emphasize to him that the age he grew up in is coming to an end.
There are only perhaps 40 pages dedicated to the actual action, with the rest of the book consisting of memories Captain Richards recollects during the course of the day.
i'd been meaning to read this for ten years, ever since the nyrb re-released it.
everyone talking about it as a lost dystopian masterpiece along the lines of 1984 and brave new world and all that.
and how come i'm not just re-reading We again instead?
anyway, this is a story about a guy who goes to a job interview and stands in his employer's garden and sees some things.
also he complains a lot about the state of the world and how things used to be better in the old days.
Le personnage est comme attrapé dans un cul-sac de sa vie et ne sait que faire pour en sortir.
Voici donc un aperçu d'une société qui trompe dans son apparence, mais surtout dont les repères n'en sont plus.
Il entre dans un monde clos de création, entre autres les fameuses abeilles de verre, merveilles de technologie.
Cette phase du récit correspond alors à une profonde réflexion sur la technologie, le réel, l'irréel et la quête de justice, qui à mon avis aurait pu être plus poussée.
Mais l'idée est là, et il semble que se soit au lecteur d'aller lui-même plus loin.
At its core this novel is a masterfully crafted subversive tool.
A tool which perhaps has never been more ripe for use than now.
With it Junger does not offer us the means to stop a dystopian future , which has without question manifested.
Or the means to reverse course to an idyllic time.
Instead junger offers us a manifesto like biography, of a man trapped by the changing world around him.
That if taken can shelter us from the machine of hyper-modernity."Human perfection and technical perfection are incompatible.
technical perfection strive towards the calculable, human perfection strives towards the incalculable..."

In the introduction to the New York Review Book Classic edition, Bruce Sterling praises the slim novella for its prescient descriptions of technology and robots.
Their friendship and their shared conversations over Nietzsche are background music to The Glass Bees and to understanding Jünger’s position on technology.
Jünger views technology as a seductive tool that those in power will use to determine morality.
Jünger had lived through the uses of technology, its improvisations, to kill soldiers and to automate genocide.Jünger’s writings between two world wars speak to a “loss of values,” a lack of foundation for the individual in the world and in society.
He has a charismatic ability to manipulate the people who work for him and perhaps a demonic desire to change the world through the transformative power of technology.While waiting for Zapparoni to conduct his interview, he waits in a garden outside the factory, and his senses are gradually overwhelmed by Zapparoni’s meticulously constructed glass bees, replete with hundreds of infinitely complex miniscule parts.
After this bizarre experience, Richard resolves to not take a job at Zapparoni’s factory, thinking that he might use his power for something other than good, but ends up changing his mind and taking a position as a sort of ombudsman, helping the often querulous workers get over their artistic differences.
The Glass Bees is a short, dense philosophical novel about an old cavalryman, Richard, in need of money--because his life has been marred by an "evil star," which he calls "defeatism," an inability to side with power or conventionality.
Most of the novel takes place during Richard's "job interview," which culminates in his being sent out into a garden by Zapparoni, a garden in which he discovers both the titular mechanical bees and a lot of what appear to be severed human ears.

A simple, futuristic story with little in the way of plot. Nearly the entire story takes place in the mind of one man while he is being interviewed for a job. In the future, pretty much everything can be automated, including bees, all though the story clearly illustrates that all though automatons may be more efficient, they aren't necessarily better. A common enough theme, but a short novel that exemplifies that notion.
А якщо книга не звалює на голову усіляких філософських проблем, як у випадку із Сковородою, то вся ця метушня зовнішнього середовища разом із цікавим сюжетом книжки дарують дуже приємний досвід.Навіть той, хто народився у в'язниці і ніколи не бачив ні зірок, ні морів, ні лісів, інстинктивно він знає про нескінченну свободу в необмеженому просторі.Тим, хто не надто знайомий із літературним доробком Ернста Юнгера, його ім'я може бути відоме з курсу шкільного чи університетського курсу всесвітньої історії, зокрема в контексті Німеччини в епоху Веймарської республіки.
Здається, теперішня реальність дуже добре лягає на прогнози Ернста Юнгера.Ернст Юнгер "Скляні бджоли"

There’s some remarkable prescience in this 1957 science fiction title by Ernst Junger, most well known for Storm of Steel, his memoir of WWI trench warfare. In the dystopic future of the book, nano-technologies, a form of virtual reality, and mass entertainment govern civic life while the manly virtues of the past have gone the way of the light cavalry. The Glass Bees is part Blade Runner and part Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Unfortunately, it’s less a novel than a tract masquerading as a novel, and I found its endless digressions and postponements of the plot almost unbearable.
Pretty scary to imagine how much harm they could cause it their intentions changed "Don't be evil" to "Be evil."But enough of that, the other fascinating part of this book is the historical/political context of it.
Granted it gets a bit dull during the long realization in the garden, but the earlier back-and-forth from the good old days—which, incidentally, really don't sound that good since they are only training for and then brutally dying in a horrific war—to the new world of Weimar poverty and the very compromised opportunities of capitalism and technology was very interesting.
Really a very interesting book for a variety of reasons.
Ernst Jünger was born in 1895, died in 1998, fought for Germany in both wars, and in the years between saw, experienced, and wrote a LOT.The Glass Bees is one of his fiction works centering on a job interview between former cavalryman Richard and technological overlord and visionary Zapparoni; in true Jünger form, Richard goes through plenty of reminiscence and philosophizing, which at times slows the pace of the book to a point where I wasn't sure Jünger was going to salvage his story.
Zapparoni and his realm puts one in mind of Gates, Jobs, Packard, Brin, Page, etc.
Laments for comrades driven to suicide or the lost glory of once dashing horsemen now forced to punch tickets for a living are particularly interesting.
His interview culminates in a horrifying experience and he is forced to accept his station in the modern world, a world he finds devoid of meaning but must be part of nonetheless.
Also, for more on Jünger's thoughts on technology I would recommend an interesting series of interviews collected by Jules Hervier called The Details of Time, which is out of print but I obtained a used copy.
Richard agrees to meet with him for an interview.Like other more famous dystopian science fiction, e.g. Aldous Huxley's Brave New World, Glass Bees is a critique of the modern world, especially of the dehumanizing effects of technology.
Jünger's protagonist Richard is a man caught in two worlds, the Old World and the New, and the reader sees this struggle between Old and New played out in a way that is beautifully melancholic.
As a man fundamentally of the Old World, and specifically of the Old World's mode of warfare, the reader also sees in Richard a pining for the martial chivalry that has been lost by technological advancements in warfare.
This short strange tale follows an ex-cavalry officer trying to get a job at an automaton factory.
While other reviews suggest this novel is science fiction (though closer in fact to the fantastic of Hoffman or Felisberto) marred by seemingly pointless autobiographical-style and often Proustian digressions from the narrator, I actually found this conflict of genres to be integral to the tale.
Though written in the 1960s, this book feels like it was written 50-100 years earlier, like listening to an old man rant about the kids these days and how good it was back then, at least until he finds some missing ears in a truly Lynchian moment.
This book is prescient.
Written over 50 years ago, it is about a mysterious and saintly Steve Jobs-like character, if Steven Jobs was an Italian named Zapparoni, and if, instead of iShit, he manufactured flying insects ("glass bees") and other automata.
It's about an aging Cavalry captain, a technophobe, a luddite, who for some reason Zapparoni wants to offer a job.
An illicit job.
His army buddies commit suicide and/or are similarly puzzled about life in this age.Anyway, it's good.
Better than most.Prescient.
I enjoyed reading about Ernst Junger's vision of a dystopian future in "The Glass Bees." Junger seems to have been ahead of his time when thinking about the impact of technology on the human race.The story follows a narrator who gets a job offer at Zapparoni Works, run by a wealthy man responsible for the growing use of luxury and other types of robots. The job offered is a bit unsavory and our narrator wrestles with questions of morality, showing how his background frames his views.This was a quick little read and a pretty fun one.
What must contemporaries have thought of this highly provocative book when it was published? The introduction offered the idea that contemporaries didn't really get it. Boy, must that be true! This book was decades ahead of its time. For me, reading it in 2014, it felt like a sharp and incisive critique of our current values. Materialism, artificial life, colony collapse disorder and the figure of Zapparoni himself - Jobs, Gates, Zuckerberg and so on. Well worth a read.
