https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225343.Heartburn
This is one of those books that shows you how much a writer can get away with when they possess a strong voice. Heartburn is a fun novel about marital infidelity but it only hits one note. There's no depth or complexity to the story. Instead, it reads like a comedic monologue albeit a very enjoyable one, but still... I wanted more, no matter how many times I laughed or smiled to myself.
Even the previous recipient had a note written to her on the first page that says as much: "...No woman's bookshelf should be without this!" Seriously?
2007 for a grilled chicken salad she ate in Sarasota, Florida.Loosely based on her middle marriage falling apart-- when her husband (real-life Carl Bernstein) left her pregnant for another woman--Ephron's first person story screams of the early 1980s it was written in....
How can Rachel, the protagonist, claim she is a liberalized New York-y woman if she keeps going back to her husband who cheats on her?
Ephron's character, Rachel, is generally unlikable.
I gave Ephron an extra star only because I miss (most of) her.
I gave this book 3 stars, because although I enjoyed it, it's not a book I finished and instantly began recommending to everyone I know. It was a very quick read and I liked how unique it was with the comfort food recipes set within the novel. I thought it was clever and funny how Nora made light of a very sad situation...heartbreak.
In the book Ephron’s character (Rachel) explains to her therapist why she is writing about it;“Vera said: “Why do you feel you have to turn everything into a story?”So I told her why:Because if I tell the story, I control the version.Because if I tell the story, I can make you laugh, and I would rather have you laugh at me than feel sorry for me.Because if I tell the story, it doesn’t hurt as much.Because if I tell the story, I can get on with it.”Ephron was seven months pregnant when she discovered the affair; the novel charts her reactions and those of her husband.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I grew up with Nora Ephron. Her movies taught me everything I would ever need to know about having unrealistic expectations when it comes to matters of the heart . . .  They made me laugh . . .  And sometimes they even made me cry . . .  That's why it's so hard for me to give this book such a low rating. But it's a low rating I must give because Heartburn just wasn't very good. I'll let Nora's own words do most of the talking here so I
would be pretty damn striking and memorable if the book weren't filled with schizophrenic rants such as these.I'm pretty sure writing Heartburn was a much needed therapeutic experience for Nora Ephron.
I believe she did, in fact, need to write this story .
This is one of the rare cases (yep, I'm still looking at you Winston Groom and your pitiful excuse for a story that was the print version of Forrest Gump) where the movie was better than the book.
Nora Ephron was a great writer of film and the movie version of Heartburn proves it.
Heartburn (1983)Yes, these are all comedies, all fictional representations of Jewish American middle class angst, and all really similar, with endless jokes about food, sex, adultery, being Jewish and what appears to be the central feature of modern Jewish American life – no, not religion, how quaint would that be – it’s analysis – therapy – shrinks.Nora Ephron's problem was that she came after Erica Jong and Philip Roth for me.
In this country we don’t do analysis, instead we insist that everyone should have counselling.
So in America the main motivating factors impelling people up the greasy poles of their careers is analysis and golf.
Just felt like laughing, so picked this book up to visit with again. Fave quote: "Show me a woman who cries when the trees lose their leaves in autumn, and I'll show you a real asshole."
My rating: 4.5 of 5 stars ‘I think I was so entranced with being a couple that I didn’t even notice that the person I though I was a couple with thought he was a couple with someone else.’ Heartburn is Nora Ephron’s first and only novel, and this breaks my heart because I adored this story. Never did I think it so thoroughly possible to take a story about heartbreak and turn it into something so full of life and jest. Heartbreak is a devastating thing that we humans are forced to suffer through,
Never did I think it so thoroughly possible to take a story about heartbreak and turn it into something so full of life and jest.
Heartbreak is a devastating thing that we humans are forced to suffer through, but can you even imagine having to undergo it at 38 years old and 7 months pregnant?
Maybe he’s come to his sense.
Maybe he’s dead, I thought.
Infused within her tale of heartbreak are comfort food recipes such as Sour Cream Peach Pie, plain ol’ mashed potatoes, and of course Key Lime Pie; perfect for consuming or weaponizing, if ever the situation calls for it.
Heartburn is unique in a sense… but also similar to every other “middle aged” affair read you might stubble across. Some of the most interesting passages are definitely the recipes that are thrown in throughout. I don’t think that any of the characters are even slightly likeable but I don’t know if they are meant to be! It’s a quick read and having Meryl Streep on the audio reading this to me was the absolute best.
Apparently this book was her "revenge dish best served cold" and was so close to the truth that there were lawyers and restraints and all kinds of nonsense as a result.
Nora Ephron was brilliant in her belief that if you take a bad situation (like, say, your husband's affair) and craft a funny story around it, people are no longer laughing at you, but laughing with you.
We already know Ms. Ephron was a full-on narcissist and completely unlikable, but does Rachel have to be too?
(Somewhere, Carl Bernstein is going, "Uh, YES.") In Rachel's defense, the affair between Mark and Thelma was awful.
"My mother taught me many things when I was growing up, but the main thing I learned from her is that everything is copy.
She said it again and again, and I have quoted her saying it again and again.
As a result, I knew the moment my marriage ended that someday it might make a book – if I could just stop crying.
One of the things I’m proudest of is that I managed to convert an event that seemed to me hideously tragic at the time to a comedy – and if that’s not fiction, I don’t know what is."
As a result, I knew the moment my marriage ended that someday it might make a book – if I could just stop crying.
It's the perfect combination of coping and revenge, and apparently it worked for Ms. Ephron and resulted in the bestseller: Heartburn.I ended up really liking this book.
Heartburn details the demise of Ms. Ephron's marriage, much to her husband's real-life dismay.
That is the tone of this book...and the fact that the audio is narrated by the amazing Meryl Streep just added to the experience.
It’s a sure thing!
I fell in love with Nora Ephron when I read her book of essays called I Feel Bad about My Neck: And Other Thoughts on Being a Woman.
The only way I can accept this at all is because I realize she wrote this book long before everyone, including her, was getting their consciousness raised.My major complaint is that it reads like a journal, not a novel.
The storyteller, Rachel, sounds exactly like Nora in her essays, and it’s “look at me, aren’t I funny and smart and self-effacing, and in short, irresistible?” This is fine if she called the book a memoir, but she called it a novel.
I've been wanting to listen to this for ages, and I'm sooo so glad I finally did.Nora Ephron caught her husband cheating on her when she was seven months pregnant with their second child, and writing Heartburn is what she did about it.
What is better than a jilted woman out for revenge on her cheating husband?
A FAMOUS jilted woman with a publishing contract and razor-sharp pen.In Heartburn, the Rom-Com Box Office Ephron of Sleepless in Seattle and You've Got Mail is nowhere to be found.
AND GREAT.And Meryl Streep is just perfect.
This has got to be one of the best audiobooks of all time.
I love Nora Ephron.
This is not a perfect book, but it was perfect for me right now.
I laughed, was touched, jotted down quotes and was generally reminded why Nora is my go-to when I need something to cheer me up.
This is a semi-autobiographical novel about Nora's time being married to her second husband, whom she found out was having an affair while she was pregnant with their second child.
If anyone can turn a disastrous event like that into a witty, tender and often hilarious novel, it's Nora.
And I loved it.
3.5*I’d heard of Nora Ephron before, mostly in relation to films, such as When Harry Met Sally, Sleepless in Seattle and my favourite You’ve Got Mail.
This new edition from Virago finally gave me the chance to try her writing.It is a very particular style, very 1980s New York, that resembles the dialogues between Harry and Sally (to give you an idea).
“Every so often I would look at my women friends who were happily married and didn't cook, and I would always find myself wondering how they did it.
Would anyone love me if I couldn't cook?
I’d like to try more from her, but right now, I much prefer her films...
A funny premise but it fell slightly short for me. It almost felt like she spoke on a tape recorder and then just jotted down what she had said verbatim, instead of compiling it into concise thoughts. It was extremely jumbled and all over the place.Stars are for the audio being read by my spirit animal, Meryl Streep.
A light fluffy easy read if you can call the topic of divorce "fluffy" I simply loved this story of a New York couple who are facing the effects of infidelity and are verging on a divorce.
So many witty moments had me chuckling hard throughout, I'm actually sad that the book was so short.
Ephron had an uncanny ability to turn ordinary thoughts and situations into comedy gold.
I felt like reading this is better than therapy!
There is something so warm and inviting in her writing style.
Really enjoyed it.
The title summed up the book perfectly.
I listened to this one, and it was read by Meryl Streep. How could you go wrong? It was hilarious!
Lots of food references and a few recipes thrown in.The protagonist is Rachel, a Jewish lady (she harps a lot about Jewish way of life, hence I too am mentioning it) with a toddler son, who at the beginning is 7 months pregnant with her second child and who has just got proof of her husband Mark's infidelity with Thelma, a not well loved family friend.
Thelma has a very 'broad minded' husband, and that doesn't make things easy.
Rachel ponders upon her life, her love, with lots of background detail about her friend circle.
She also starred in the movie but I don't know if this was before or after narrating the book.
The movie almost exactly mirrored the book except for the Key Lime Pie scene which was all internal dialogue in the book and was spoken in the movie (I liked that she said it all out loud so I'm siding with the movie on this).
New Yorker review of this book which said she added stories to this fiction book that she had already written about as actual events.
Both the movie and the audiobook were wonderful!
5 out of 5 stars.
yo people don't know this but nora ephron in her early career had intersectionality DOWN... with one twist. this was classist, racist, sexist, homophobic and transphobic as hell. sorry nora! you got really really cool later (?), but this one was excruciating.
Mark, her husband, is a journalist who writes columns for a major Washington DC newspaper.
He often draws material from their lives as inspiration for his columns, which drives Rachel nuts.Rachel soon discovers that Mark is in love with another woman.
The majority of the book involves what transpires between the couple after the affair is out in the open, and Rachel's thoughts about staying in the marriage.At a slim 179 pages, I could easily have read this book in one sitting.
I rarely read comedies; this book was a selection for one of my book clubs.
of course i knew ahead of time that the book is mostly autobiographical, and that made it sad even as our main character cracked jokes and spun stories out of the truly shitty turn her life took when her husband declared his love for another in her seventh month of pregnancy.
i love nora ephron's writing because she writes as if speaking to an old friend, and because she's so charmingly new york (which is code for jewish, according to her- but not, in this instance, 'cutely antisemitic', the way television producers used it in regards to our main character/nora ephron.)
This is a beautifully-written, moving, very funny book that, apparently, is a thinly-veiled biography zeroing in on Ephron's second marriage and her then-husband's affair.
I was a little put off by the fact that this novel seemed more like a revenge piece and it made me feel almost voyeuristic to read it.
Aside from that and Ephron's cringe-worthy portrayal of her cheating husband's therapist, Ephron was a gifted writer with no wasted words in this novel.
This book is witty and often raw.
It resonates with anyone who has ever loved a liar and a cheater.
I did expect better; that might account for the two stars - This short book read at times like a poor chick-lit novel.
I did not like the tone of the book for various reasons.
One, I found the narrator very superior, irritating even, and frankly not very witty or funny.
Finally, we have comments like this one on p.47:'Lesbianism has always seemed to me an extremely inventive response to the shortage of men,...'.
However, I was perturbed that the writer's preface from 2004 actually emphasised the similarities between the narrator and the writer.
I am not going to rush to read another Nora Ephron's novel anytime soon.
And it's particularly difficult to read this kind of humour (there is, literally, a good ten minutes of a vignette in which the word 'dyke' is repeated about two dozen times) when one is conscious that it is being presented from a particular cynical, sophisticated, albeit self-acknowledged-as-bourgeois POV.
I wasn't raised by a mother who expected me to meet those particular standards, or who put that kind of pressure on me - thank god.
And if you consume the audiobook, as I did, know that Meryl Streep -- the premier actor of our generation -- is far too good for audiobooks.
I read this book when it first came out, and this is my first re-read in almost 30 years.
As is usually the case, this was a very different book.
I was really struck this time by how rich Mark and Rachel are.
This time, I could really see the anger simmering below the surface.
There's never been a more withering, funny comment than Rachel's "the man could have sex with a venitian blind" I've spent years imagining such a thing.
Anyway, this book has held up great and I recommend it heartily.
I think a good 60% of the Book Riot contributors have read this audiobook and raved about it so it was only a matter of time until I got to it. Streep reads it incredibly well (and gets a lot more to work with in the novel than in the only so-so movie version). And it's funny and enjoyable to spend time with Rachel. This isn't a terribly serious book about divorce, not one that will help you work through your own relationship problems, but it's a nice way to spend some time.
I really loved this book. I laughed out loud, smiled, teared up because I related so much to Rachel’s plight, loved and hated her husband Mark. It’s a quick listen as I got the audiobook, which is narrated by Meryl Streep (yay!), who played Rachel in the movie, which of course is also fantastic. The only reason I didn’t give it 5 stars is there are a few parts where she describes some characters in ways that are wholly inappropriate 30 years after this book was published.
Picked this up at the library after I heard of Nora Ephron's death and everyone was talking about this book. It was funny and a quick read. Three things I learned:1. Nora Ephron was very funny.2. Carl Bernstein is a dick.3. Smart women sometimes marry horrible men, even when they KNOW better.
