https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107324.Lonely_Road
easy going pre-war political crime thriller which originally came out in 1932 and you can see some of the ideas ian fleming had as he knew Shute.
Nevil Shute is possibly better known for bitter post-war novels, and to my shame I didn’t at first realise that this book, first published in 1931, falls very much in that category.
Where he writes about what he knows well – aircraft, usually, but in this case the sea and small boats, and the fast, damaged young men of the years between the wars – he is unsurpassed.
Commander Malcolm Stevenson returns to consciousness and finds himself in a hospital being told by a nurse that he'd been in an automobile accident and had a concussion.
Over the next few days, as his brain begins to clear, he tries to reconstruct and remember as much as he can about what happened.
What he finds out is that he had been a victim of being in the wrong place at the wrong time as a gun-smuggling operation was going down.
He tells what he knows to the police and finds himself pulled in to the investigation.
The beginning of this was extremely confusing and disjointed.
In May, 2013, I found this book in a box of books my mother had stored. It was a gift to my father from an unknown friend in 1955. I had to read it to experience what my father had read. I am glad I did. Interesting, thoughtful, and sad...particularly the war recollections and the early 19th century realities of social class. Well worth ones time...
Nevil Shute is one good storyteller.
This is an old copy on my bookshelf, but I don't remember reading it before.
It does fit in well with "after WWI" fiction.Like many of Shute's novels, there is a class difference between the hero and heroine and some time spent on technical explanations.
Shute is always quite detailed in his descriptions.But the Preface sets us up to know that there will be sadness here.
Shute notes in this reprint that this was an experiment which he still likes.Pied Piper, A Town Like Alice are novels on the top of my lists.
I remember Round the Bend, Landfall and Most Secret as being really good.
This book has been sitting on my bookshelf for ages and I finally got around to reading it. I found the beginning difficult to get past to get into the book, and I put the book aside for a while before I went back to it. But once I got into the story I enjoyed it. Nevil Shute is a master craftsman at building suspense while seeming to say not much in a very quiet restrained manner. I enjoyed this book, but it is one of not my favourite Shutes. So far these are Pastoral and A Town Like Alice.
Another Enthralling Nevil Shute!Wow, this book included a marvelous story of class differences in England that are subtle to this day. His main character was able to change and experience the beauty and special love of a classless society that displayed simple pleasures without the trappings of a complicated materialistic world!
Great novel, far ahead of it's time. And what a writer Nevil Shute is. Glad to read one of his books again after about 30 years. I'm very curious about the new biography, published in 2017.
Classic Neville ShuteI really liked this book after a strange start the story developed well. I have read most of his classics but not for quite a while
It doesn't.The book starts out with a sort of dream sequence that Shute states in a preface was an experiment he wanted to make and that he thought was successful.
There is a dramatic shooting and an exciting boat chase, which is not something one reads every day (Shute here, as in Most Secret, making good use of his youthful familiarity with sailing boats).
Shute, as ever, is very readable and there is much to admire in this novel but, if pushed for time, then please read Most Secret instead.
Apart from "On the Beach" this is probably the darkest and least optimistic of Shute's novels.
Having failed in several relationships with women and finding himself with few friends, he drinks far too much, drives too fast and doesn't like the person he has become.
At least one such character (like Molly in this case) appears in every one of Shute's novels.
Still, such a great tale.This book tells the story of Malcolm Stevenson, an unlikely, lonely (and possibly undeserving) WW2 hero and well-to-do shipbuilder.
Malcolm is involved in a driving accident and inadvertently stumbles into a gun running espionage plot to sabotage the British government.
Events turn ugly as everything comes together in the end, and Malcolm is sadly left alone again.Shute's characters were well fleshed out and the plot kept me going all the way through.
But, it does all come together by the end, so it's worth it.This was a totally clean book.
This novel by Nevil Shute was a bit of a strange one for him.
Other than being immersed in this business, he is a very lonely man who drinks way too much.
As the story proceeds, he discovers the "accident" was anything but accidental and involves a conspiracy with national implications of a very significant nature.
He becomes involved further with the girl in his effort to assist a police investigation and soon falls in love with her.
I'm glad I read this book, but it is probably the least favorite of all the many Nevil Shute novelty I've read.
He has a bad accident in his car on the way from a drunken evening, but dreams of seeing a boat near shore and a lorry on fire.
After he gets home, his friend, Colonel Fedden come to visit and tells him about a gun found by the roadnear the burned out lorry, and Stevenson realizes it has something to do with his accident and the lorry has something to do with Mollie's brother.
Stevenson asks Mollie to spend her vacation with him in the country and they get mixed up in the affair with her brother.
To sum up, a rich anti-social Englishman suffering from post-traumatic stress due to his experiences in the Great War stumbles upon a criminal plot, and meets a wonderful girl.
The plot is well-paced with a couple twists, and the characters are like characters in other Nevil Shute books.
The problem is that this book doesn't leave the reader with a great lesson, or a warm feeling about humanity, or an incredible story that must be told, like other Nevil Shute books do.
This book just ends with a messy and unsatisfying conclusion, like real stories out of the newspapers.
The whole book feels like an experiment really.
Not too long thereafter, after befriending a dance-hall girl in Leeds (sixpence a dance) and hearing her chatter about her brother, hearing his cousin's spouse talk about small shipping routes from Europe to England, and seeing the effects of a burned out truck carrying a load of guns, he begins to see some tie-ins between these three seemingly unrelated things and his nightmares.
So begins an investigation involving Scotland Yard, the homeland security folks (whatever they were called in England in the late 1920s).
So also begins a romance with the dance-hall girl.
I liked the experiment (a disjointed, nonlinear narrative that reflects the narrator's memories as they are coming together following an accident) and I got on well with Shute's crisp, assured style.The flaw in the book is the plot, which hinges on a massive coincidence that is only comprehensible if you think that the entire story is the narrator's dying dream, like Danny Boyle's movie Trance.
(If that was the point of Trance.) I don't think Shute intended it that way, merely that outageous coincidence was par for the course in 1930s thrillers - see also The 39 Steps - but the modern reader may not be so forgiving.
Malcolm Stevenson, a wealthy but lonely man, wakes up in a hospital after a bad automobile accident.
A chance remark by a woman he meets in a dance hall gives him a clue which he investigates further and discovers a plot to smuggle firearms and rig an upcoming national election.
It also leads to grave danger for him and the dance hall woman, with whom he has fallen in love.
The first chapter of this book is an extremely confusing account of Stevenson’s thoughts just after the accident, much of which doesn’t really make sense until the end of the book.
Another of Shute's early books, and a good one.
A wealthy upper class WW I veteran, Malcolm Stevenson, suffering from what we now call PTSD, lives a lonely life until by chance he becomes involved with a dance hall girl, Mollie.
By coincidence, he ends up spending more time than he expected with her while on the trail of a suspicious occurrence near his home.
Their relationship moves along erratically, but beautifully developed by Shute, while Stevenson tries to balance his growing feelings for Mollie with the need to solve the mystery to which she has an important connection.
Be warned: this story deviates from Shute's normal pattern in its resolution.
What I loved about this book was that I was never very sure if I liked Commander Stevenson. He seems like the most detestable character at times, but then he almost redeems himself. The first chapter was, as Nevil Shute noted, very risky, but a great introduction to the character and the plot. The final 20% of the book features great, suspenseful writing. I look forward to giving this book a second read.
A rattling good yarn! Nevil Shute sure knows how to write them! Ignore all the stereotypes and hackneyed characterisations, the casual racism (amazing how often a "dirty little Jew" wanders through the pages)and don't look for great psychological depth - just sit back and enjoy. And this one has an unexpected warmth and sadness to it, which adds to the pleasure.
I expected a solid 3-star thriller featuring guns! communists! sailing! a plucky tart with a heart! policework! a grim-faced hero! And while it had all those things, Nevil Shute's always a bit more peculiar and interesting than that. It has a kind of sustained sombre intensity, this one, and it really gets under your skin.
A soft, gentle story abot a middle-aged bachelor who falls in love with a young dance hall girl.Nevil Shute's description of the characters and his development of the story make for a thoroughly enjoyable read.
What a curious book. I found it endearing in parts, really odd, offensive, but in the end the technical part, the chase was well worth reading. The caveat in the author's own preface summed up the problems.
I'm so close to having read all of Shute's books--only two more. He's one of my favorite authors, so next I'll read the novels in the order in which they were written to enjoy Shute's development as a writer.
Brilliant, inspired writing - the opening chapter appears confusing but in light of what happened to the narrator (and Mr Shute's explanation) becomes fully legible as this very atmospheric, but measured pace thriller moves ahead to a heart-tugging end...
V readable, and I was glad it turned out not to be a Communist Plot, but marking it down somewhat for the resolution (if you can call it resolution) of the actual emotional arc. There is a name for that trope.
Suspenseful story, with a great romance thrown in.
This is a book I read years ago and I enjoyed it immensely. I’ve read all of Nevil Shute’s books. The best by far is “A Town Like Alice.”
excellent story as with all of Nevil shute's books. I'm rereading them all in the order they were written. this is the love story of a wealthy lonely man and a poor dance hostess who meet by chance.
