https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2155382.Animals_of_the_Bible
I would say, read this book if you want to read all the Caldecott medal books.
It is only to be recognized as part of this medal process.The book uses pages of text to tell bible story in the King James version.
It felt like they slapped some bible text up on the page that has something to do with an animal and then they gave the picture of an animal.The text was so old, after looking through this, I didn't even show it to the kids.
The first Caldecott medal didn't hold up to time very well.
This book must, MUST be looked at in historical concept to give a fair review.By today's standards we're not impressed with the text (of which there feels to be too much, in archaic language no less) and the lack of color on the pages.
And also, the ease of which various Bible translations abound to make God's word easier to understand.This book was first printed in 1937.
Given the nature of the book, I have to respect the choice of black and white over color.
Along with the Children's Book Group, I am reading through the Caldecott winners beginning with the first winner, Animals of the Bible.
I'm not sure if it's just the printing I have, but a few of the illustrations looked a little "blown out" like there was a bit of fading or something.
I'm not sure how much the art would appeal to children of today, but I could definitely appreciate the work.
I am reminded of the Little House books and how Laura was always so interested in looking at the illustrations in Pa's book of animals.
The illustrations are accompanied by several passages from the King James Version of the Bible that mention animals.
The animals’ bodies, fur, horns, whiskers, etc have some nice detail and structure but their faces and eyes seem strangely human-like.
The humans are all drawn as “Greek deities” with perfectly shaped bodies and faces.
While the book would not hold up to scrutiny today, the illustrations are wonderful for the time in which they were drawn and I can imagine that having such a book would be a special treasure for a child in 1937.
This book has a different topic on each page.
That topic consists of all different animals.
Each page, a new animal is introduced to the ongoing story.
The story, are different passages in the bible.
It was definitely interesting and would be a good book for children to read or have read to but only a couple animals at a time.
I think that overall, this book would be good spread out over a few reading sessions but it was just too much and hard to continue with while reading it in one go.
It has thirty-one animals, pulled from various passages of scripture, with black and white pictures to accompany the biblical references.Although I don't feel that this is a book that has stood the test of time, it has been interesting to view it with a historical mindset.
Note: I loved how this book won the Caldecott Medal and it's basically just a book with passages from the Bible.
The Bible always has and will be the most precious book to own and read.
Unfortunately, I think the book's illustrations are it's weakness when viewed with a contemporary eye.
This book pointed out animals I forgot about. Lovely pictures.
It is clear that she has experience drawing animals from real life.
So why only one star?The book was conceived and planned by Helen Dean Fish, who selected the texts used from the King James Bible.
In some cases, the animal is but a small mention in the text (Abraham’s Ram or Jonah and the Great Fish).
She did nothing to write these as child-friendly stories.
If I needed a child’s picture book of Bible stories, I’d pick a different book.That’s really a pity, because Lathrup’s drawings are magnificent.
I’d rate the illustrations 5***** - but I still wouldn’t recommend the book.
It's interesting to see how the illustrated-book genre evolved from this point.
This is certainly an illustrated book, but not of a story, since Animals of the Bible depicts selected Old and New Testament passages of the Bible that include or focus on an animal - that's the most innovative and compelling aspect.
Lathrop's animals are well drawn and fell alive and full of motion and expression - the ram caught in the thicket at the time Abraham nearly sacrificed his son is one of the book's best.
This was probably my least favorite picture book that I have read from Caldecott winners as there were no colors and the illustrations seemed dull because of it.
While I appreciated the drawings, it did not captivate me because of the lack of color.
There is a lack of consistency amongst images and the amount of text making it frustrating to go through.
The picture book is large enough to be read in sections; however, there are not clear sections of division.
Readers see illustrations for the next section while some sections have none.
If I was not determined to read every Caldecott Medal winner, I would certainly not give any attention to this book.
I find it interesting that Helen Dean Fish had two Caldecott winners in the inaugural year (Honor and Medal) in which she simply collected biblical verse and nursery rhymes without any original text.
It seems like she was simply riding on the coattails of superior illustrators work and taking credit for it.Considering this is a book meant for children, a simpler biblical translation would have been more appropriate, rather than the dry king James version.
It was an intriguing experience to read the very first Caldecott Medal winning title.
Why did the committee choose this one?
I feel like the Caldecott Medal has evolved a great deal since this first winner.
On the other hand, I can see how these illustrations might have caught the eye of the committee.
They're beautifully stylized with an Art Deco feel, especially in the human figures, and I can see the influence of Japanese prints in the composition and use of negative space in many of the illustrations.

The first Caldecott winner is a series of drawings depicting (what do you know!) animals of the Bible, alongside sections of text from the King James translation. The illustrations are black and white, with a simple beauty and elegance. The animals are darling, and there were several pictures that I would not mind having prints of, like Eve with the Serpent, or the behemoth, or Rebekkah watering the camels. The composition of each illustration is very good--each one could hold its own on a gallery wall.
Updated: at the time it was written, this must have been a magnificent book. It provides insight into the American Library Association's commitment to picture books that can be read and reread with new enjoyment each time. 2010: This was the first book to win the Caldecott, and within a year, the next winner (mei li) was significantly better. Animals are cool, the bible is cool, but this book is unimpressive. In other news, children's books must have sucked in 1937 if this is the best of the best.
KJV text coupled with illustrations of the animals in the story. Illustrations are pretty good, but this was book will not find the same audience today. For one, even children like mine who are familiar with the Bible don't read it in the KJV. Interesting to see the first Caldecott, but, sadly, not one I'm going to rush out and buy. It would be cool to see someone do an update of this title, though.
I can admire the detail on some of the animals in this book. Some of them have wonderful expression in their eyes. I found the people in the lithographs less personable and interesting in terms of the art.As a text, I didn't find this anthology of Bible stories and verses to hang together very cohesively.
Book offered some unintentional laughs. Definitely from a different era.
In which I learned that in the beginning, God created a sea monster, but apparently Noah didn't let the sea monster on the ark. Way to go, Noah.
A must have for religious children! With many excerpts from both the old and the new testament, Lathrop uses amazingly detailed lithographs to illustrate the animals mentioned in the Bible. This biblical bestiary is truly a work of art, with its honest illustrations paired alongside passages from the birth of Christ, genesis, and other well-known stories about figures such as Elijah and Daniel. Interestingly enough, the Leviathan makes an appearance, proving that in the eyes of 1930s readers in this book, it was just as real as any other animal one may see. Great for grades 2-5.Review cross-listed here!
I really liked this book. The illustrations where well done. The stories were taken right from the King James Bible. This book is a great raw view of animals from the bible.
Why animals?This is the first book ever to win a Caldecott Medal, and it definitely shows its age.
Most of them are illustrated by pictures of the animals.
Some of the more interesting ones are "behemoth," which is apparently a hippopotamus, "leviathan", which is some kind of bizarre sea serpent, Jonah and the "great fish", which is clearly a baleen whale, and Jesus's saying that "the foxes have holes" apparently warrants a depiction of foxes.
The nice animals are depicted here.
There's no obvious reason that they chose to illustrate animals.
This children’s book is full of short stories that reveals the bibles beautiful and exotic animals.
The pictures were so elegant and it made the book so much more fun to read.
The pictures are in black in white which represents the timeless stories that are told in this book.
Each page has the same sense of elegance and richness to it because of the illustrations.
I love how this book is in black and white because it makes the pictures that much more interesting to try and interpret.
But it is a great read and I loved the book!
This book is a story with multiple different passages apart of it.
The stories inside involve many different animals from the bible.
There are also a few stories with animals from the bible that people haven’t usually heard about.
I was a little surprised to see the black and white illustration but I think that it aspect adds room for creativity.
Although I like this story I’m not sure if children today would enjoy this book as much as older generations.
I think this book could be a more fun way for religious families to introduce stories from the bible to their children.
Animals of the Bible written by Dorothy Lathrop is a collection of animal tales from the Old and New Testament in the Bible.
Although the tones sometimes blend, the pictures are realistic and clear cut.
Having heard many of these Biblical accounts before, I found that this book cut short many of the great details found within these reports.
With that being said, I thought this book would be a great introduction for young students unfamiliar with the Old and New Testament accounts, but if you are looking for descriptive rich stories that hold your interest, I would read the actual accounts.
I had the brilliant idea to read all the Caldecott Medal winners.
Animals of the Bible was the initial winner of the award back in 1938.
King James version of the Bible cannot hold my attention for more than a minute and it definitely cannot hold the attention of a modern child, or at least, my modern child.
We ended up thumbing through the book, stopping at pictures we liked and I created stories based on my admittedly weak knowledge of Bible stories.
Trying to read the King James text was akin to trying to read in Farsi (I do not speak nor read Farsi!).
I dare you to find a kid who'd sit through this one nowadays.
Not only is it super wordy, but it's made up of excerpts that don't have any particular context, let alone continuity - not to mention that all of those excerpts are from the King James edition, so the language is extremely archaic.
I'm guessing that even practicing Christian kids who are more or less familiar with the general arc of the Bible would be at sea here.
The illustrations are pretty, but can someone answer me this: was black-&-white just the style in the 30's & 40's, or was color printing just not available yet?
In 1938 this beautiful hardcover book was the very first winner of the Caldecott medal for its lovely black and white illustrations. The stories are all short and written right out of the King James version of the Bible, each one a story that includes animals. For children today it might be easier for them to understand if a newer version of the Bible is read alongside this book. It's a wonderful early introduction to both the Old Testament and the New Testament since most children enjoy stories about animals.
I read the version from archive.org. The font and King James version text may be overwhelming for a younger child. However, the beautifully detailed art contributes to the eye and spirituality. It's informative plus I now know what the behemoth and leviathan are and that they originate from the Scriptures.
This is a beautiful book of famous bible stories involving animals with black and white pencil illustrations. I think they would look better if they were in color like the cover of the book. There is a table of contents and the book is separated by the old testament and the new testament.
