https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/264676.Right_and_Left
My first book by Roth and not going to be my last.Joseph Roth in a style reminiscent of Thomas Mann, writes about a young man Paul and his family during the early part of the twentieth century.
He decides that Paul is a man who came from a family once well off but now in need of money.
Paul knows that he must present a good face so he goes to a man who might help.Nikolei Brandeis is an enigma.
He offers Paul a job because he wants the connection to the Chemical Company.While most of the story is about Paul there are side tracks to his brother, Theodor and also Brandeis.
Ωραία γραφή, λιτή και κατανοητή. Δυστυχώς όμως δεν μπόρεσε να με τραβήξει στα σπλάχνα του. Το διάβασα στα ελληνικά από τις εκδόσρις Ροές.
Early Roth, dwelling on post-WWI germany, with finely drawn caricatures and characters, tinged with acid.
Though Roth I think has the greater reputation, I prefer the work - the style of Hans Fallada or Robert Walser. Roth's book of Germany leading up to WWI is fascinating but I didn't really like the main characters (Paul and Theodore) - victims as they were of their own self interest and vanity. I did like Brandeis though, especially when he chose to walk away from all he had built, not wanting the fame or the glory but just an interesting life....I liked that.
This was a delightful read. Beautiful and detailed description of the people involved as well as the relations and the chasm between social groups in Germany of that era. The second and third part in particular was powerfully written and showed how the main characters were driven to a whole new life without being able to actually take the lead. The ending was good and quite smooth.
Rough around the edges, has a hard time keeping pace. So good though. How many Pauls and Theodors are out there? Am I one as well? Scary..
Het verhaal draait deze keer om ene Paul Bernheim, die terugkeert uit WO I na een weinig heldhaftig (en mooi ironisch beschreven) soldatenbestaan, en daarna op vrij erratische wijze probeert het bankimperium van zijn vader in de lucht te houden.
Dat maakt hem tot een veel vrijere figuur dan Paul Bernheim, want die blijft maar op zoek naar illusies en fantomen van geluk en kortstondige stabiliteit te midden van allerlei economische crisissen.Deze roman is wat satirischer van toon dan veel ander werk van Roth, minder droef-nostalgisch, minder weemoedig-ironisch.
Una scrittura esatta, tagliente, capace di definire e inchiodare ogni personaggio con precisione assoluta.
I personaggi simbolo della Germania tra le due guerre: "i deboli Paul Bernheim, che diventavano prigionieri delle loro stolte ambizioni; i confusi, penosamente confusi Theodor Bernheim, che vivevano nella perenne, fitta ombra del pateticume politico; i tiranni che il potere riduceva all'impotenza, e che soffocavano nel gas venefico da essi stessi prodotto; gli amici di tutti, che venivano da Budapest e sedevano dietro a paraventi;le ragazzine che volevano essere amate e perdevano i loro cuoricini" (pag.
Tra tutti questi personaggi risuonano terribili gli stivali delle prime marce dei nazisti e ondeggiano tra destra e sinistra, tra conservazione e democrazia, gli inconsapevoli protagonisti dell'aristocrazia e del ceto medio tedesco, sempre e comunque pieni di sé.
Joseph Roth is best known for The Radetsky March, a book I absolutely loved that dealt with the last days of the Hapsburg Empire and the arrival of WWI.
The book, overall, lacked the energy and epic scope of The Radetsky March.
While Roth has a razor-sharp sense of humor, and some of his one-liners are memorable, this text had an unfinished, ragged feel, with the perspective shifting to new characters almost until the last page.
Roth's contempt and disdain for his characters made it difficult to engage with them.
The weakest Roth novel I've yet read. Lots of atmospherics about post WWI Berlin, ostensibly about three characters—none of whom seem to have any redeeming qualities. Not really worth going into the plot. Written a year before Roth's masterpiece Hiob (Job) and two before Radetzkymarsch, this book feels like it was written to fulfill a contract and earn a little money. Recommended only for those compelled to read all of Roth's works.
A really compelling book, that was probably originally posited as a sort of mystical satire, but in light of the events that followed its writing (World War 2), has a distinctly ominous, prophetic cast.
Character building, insights and one-liners in this book are better than the plot itself.Roth was indeed a genius; here, nevertheless, he lacked a story - started focusing ore set os characters and, in the end, abandoned them for another.Still, a clear picture of Germany soceity between wars.
Αριστούργημα! Ένα πικρό πορτραίτο της ηττημένης Γερμανίας του Μεσοπολέμου, μιας εποχής που "η ηθική εξαρτάται μονάχα από τη σταθερότητα του νομίσματος..."
clever writer, really enjoy his work.
Only for those really, really interested in German history, and even then a stretch.
Well, actually three and a half. Someone must really give Michael Hofmann a Nobel for his Roth translations. Not Roth's best, but even a middling Roth can still make one swoon.
