https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141371.Brian_s_Return
The writing sounds the same, as does young Brian.Of course, being an adult, the story felt a little too short, but keeping in mind that this book wasn’t made for an old fuddy-duddy like myself, I felt was a good fit.
Personally, I was most captivated by the knowledge of Brian, and all that he explained about living in the wilderness.As for the story itself, I think of this like a combination of The Hatchet and The River.
I might be a little too old for these books, but I really do think young readers will enjoy them.
I didn't mean too, but I skipped Brian's Winter.
There is an afterward that Gary says many of these experiences that Brian had were things he went through.
What I really enjoyed about this book is there was no gimmick like in 'the River' to get Brian to the woods.
If people loved hatchet and they love the outdoors, then I can see them enjoying this book.
I would go from Hatchet to this one and skip The River.
I'll read Brian's Winter and decide if that is worthy of the series later.
I also like the quick story, in and out.
Brian has to see a councilor for doing that which tells him he needs to return to the woods because that is were he belongs.
Brian does end up returning to the woods he is very prepared this time on like last time.
Brian doesn't not plan on returning he feels like the woods is were he belongs and that is were he stays.
The book is very easy to understand and you can imagine all of the things he tells in the book Brian's return.
Brian was stranded in the Northern woods alone fighting for his life and goes back because he feels he no longer fits into the world he used to know and love.
The second part of the books takes place in the woods where Brian feels more at home than any other place in the world.I feel the author's purpose in writing this book is to show that everyone is different in their own way and that everyone is special and unique.
I liked reading this book a lot because I enjoy the outdoors like Brian.
Brian talks to his school counselor and lets out how he is feeling, the counselor enjoys listening to Brian talk and tells stories when and how he survived being in the wilderness the first time.
Brian wants to return back to the wilderness.
Brian wants to get back in the woods to discover who he really is and were he truely belongs.I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading about the outdoors or being outside.
I would recommend Hatchet or Brian's Return.
Short book but, like the rest of the books, ENTERTAINING AND AMAZING!
He goes through a lot to overcome his fear of wilderness living.Brian is the main character of the story and his personality plays a large part in making the book interesting.
The book takes place in two different areas in the city and the backwoods of Minnesota.
In the city it is totally different because you live by time of a clock.
He found out that being in the woods made him feel right and where he was meant to be living.I would recommend this book to anybody over the age of 10.
In this book, the main character is brian.
in the months he was there he became almost like part of the woods.
Brian, in this book, is a character that i really like, because he kind of reminds me of myself.
i love to be outdoors like he does.
i love the ending of this book as well.
I think Gaary Paulsen did a great job writing this book, and I really do like this book and i enjoyed reading it.
I would definately reccomend this book to any outdoorsman or anyone who just loves a good book.
This is a good book.
I liked it a lot.
One of the things I liked the most was the part when Brian talks to Caleb, his therapist.
I liked the bond they had with each other.
It wasn't like a regular therapist-customer bond, but more like a friend bond.Most of the book is in the wilderness.
Some of it, like the beginning, is in the city.
Brian didn't like the city much because it was really loud and there was a lot of people.
He wanted to be in a quiet place, and alone.
That's another thing I liked about the book.
I love the way the author describes the setting. The Descriptions really brought the story "to life." Brian's return is a very compelling story about a boy's itch to be one with nature. I recommend this to anyone who likes adventure.
Brian is an intensely autobiographical creation, and the spirit of personal independence and craving for nothing more than to just be a part of the wilderness—a craving that had its origin in the first book of his adventures, Hatchet—is clearly the heartfelt desire of Gary Paulsen played out on the page, in a situation that he has imagined into being so that he can vicariously live out his own dreams of life in the wild through Brian's unique odyssey.
Caleb soon realizes that there's nothing wrong with Brian; he simply needs the wilderness, and there's nothing that can be done to take that desire out of him now that he's experienced its wonder and lived to want more of it.
After many counseling sessions with Caleb, Brian decided to make a list of all of the items he needed to be prepared to move back to the wild.
Plot: Brian decided after a year of living in normal civilization that city life wasn’t for him.
The cops took Brian down to the station and that was the reason why he had to get scheduled therapy sessions with Caleb.
Brian was the main character in the story he was the one that went and lived out in the wilderness as an outdoors man instead of a normal 16 years old boy.
The way Brian told theses stories, his counselor knew that Brian had to go back into the woods.
The man asked him to stay for the night, and Brian agreed.
Brian listened to the old man, and then went to bed.
When Brian woke up the next morning, the old man was nowhere to be found.
His counselor was ecstatic to hear all the stories Brian told him.
Brian survived 54 days in the wild before, and this time he was not going to be there as long.
This meant he did not need to use the forest as much to survive.Recommendation: I would recommend the book to teenage males.
I read it really fast because I wanted to know what Brian would do next.
I would like to meet Gary Paulsen someday and ask him questions about how he survived in the wilderness.
Brian had went into survival mode and protected the girl by beating the football player senseless.
One day they both decided it was time Brian went back to the wilderness to live again.
Brian had it all planned out and he went on his way to Williams Lake.
Brian needed to be in the wilderness.
It is about survival in both civilization and the wilderness.
3 + Quick read! Although my first Brian novel, I enjoyed it and want to read some of the earlier novels. This was supposed to be the last in the Brian saga, however the fans cried "More - More" so there is one more novel [Book: Brian’s Hunt] which I have just put on my “TBR” list.Brian's story was an enjoyable about his survival after a plane crash. ( This story was especially pleasurable after listening to “Lethal White”.)
I would have liked it if the book ended a little differently, but I liked the detail that was described in everything that Brian saw on his trip.Plot summaryBrian is an outdoors kind of person.
At the start of the book, he is living in the city for school.
Caleb is also a big help for Brian.
He is very supportive even when he knows he won't see Brian for a long period of time.SettingThe setting of this book starts in the city with Brian going to school.
It takes place present day and has all the outdoor supplies anyone else would have today.RecommendationI recommend this book to anyone above eighth grade.
In what would undoubtedly be diagnosed today as a reaction triggered by post-traumatic stress disorder, Brian seriously injures another teenage boy, Carl, who makes the mistake of swinging a fist at him after hurting two of Brian's friends.
Finally, one day Caleb "sighed and said, 'It's time for you to go back, to find what you're looking for.'" Brian "had to know what it was that pulled him and made him feel empty." Caleb helps to convince his parents, Brian makes the arrangements to visit the Cree family who found him, and he's off, back to the woods he so desperately misses.To read the rest of this review, visit Build Enough Bookshelves.
I really enjoyed Brianś Return because I enjoy reading about books written about nature. This book is about a boy named Brian who was lost in the wilderness after a plane crash. He wants to go back to where he was found, because he does not like being in civilization. He can't stand it, because he was in the wilderness for so long, he found it peaceful. In this book the main character name is Brian. He really likes the wilderness, because it is peaceful to him. He does not like civilization, bec
This book is about a boy named Brian who was lost in the wilderness after a plane crash.
The book starts off in a fairly large town in Minnesota, then goes into Canadian in the wilderness.
Brian then goes to the camp where he was found when he was stranded in the wilderness for a year.
The plane also drops off other goods for the camp.
This is the plane that had gotten Brian after he was found by the Smallhorn people.
I recommend this book to anyone of any age that like to read about the outdoors.
I read the book “Brian’s Return” by Gary Paulsen.
The book is about a young boy named Brian who is dying to get back into the wilderness.
While he is at school he really doesn’t talk much or make a whole lot of friends.
One day a girl in his class walks up to him and asks him out on a date.
When they get to the place they are going to eat, a mean boy in their class pushes the door open and knocks the girl over.
Then he punches Brian and Brian’s first instinct from the wild is to fight back.
The book is about a young boy named Brian who is dying to get back into the wilderness.
When they get to the place they are going to eat, a mean boy in their class pushes the door open and knocks the girl over.
When he gets to the wilderness he keeps a journal that he will read to his counselor when he gets back.
He is also the one who convinced Brian to return to the wilderness.
The setting of this book takes place in the year 1999.
The book takes place in the wilderness for the most part.
A good book needs the good hook of an introduction, and all of Gary Paulson’s books that I have read have good hooks in the beginning.Summary- Basically this book is like the cover says, Brian returns to his crash sight.
Brian knows how to survive in the wilderness, but having someone else with him it was harder than expected.
In the end all went worse than planned, but they were ok.Recommendations- I recommend that someone who loves adventure should read this book.
Boys would probably like this book more than girls do to the survival part of the book.
Genre: Adventure Pages: 144Brief summary: It is about a kid named Brian and he comes back from his trip from the wilderness.
He comes back and he goes to school but he is not a normal kid he went to the wild stayed there he knows what is like.
I don't want to give you to much information about this book so you have to read it to find out the rest.Comments: I think that this a great adventure book and that it is a good book for a 7th grader to read.
If you like adventure books a lot then I think that you should read this book.
Personal ResponseI liked this book because it was very fascinating on how Brian had to live in civilization after he had lived in the wilderness for a long time.Plot:A boy named Brian had to find a way to live his life in civilization after he had lived in the wilderness for a while but he can't find a way to live that way he just doesn't feel the same about civilization he feels isolated and disconnected from nature.
Nature to Brian is apart of him now and he needs to go back to the wilderness to find his true way of life and where he belongs.CharacterizationBrian is a boy who lived in the wilderness for a long time and survived.
Brian's return is about a boy named Brian who is coming back from the wild and is out in the city and experiences a complete different lifestyle that he is not fit for.
Lots of things happen while he is there such as, a deer getting in his canoe, wolves and bears coming over to his camp and even gets an arrow in his leg.
Later he meets a man named billy who seems to have had a similar life to Brian.
Billy gives him medicine that is only a crow feather tied on a rawhide loop.
I read the book entitled Brian’s Return by Gary Paulsen.
This book is a continuation of Hatchet also by Gary Paulsen.
The main character Brian has been encouraged by his counselor to go back into the wilderness because he feels he doesn’t fit in where he lives.
He feels more at home in the woods.
My favorite part of this book is how the author uses his words to make me a vivid picture in my mind.
I related to this book because he is outdoors and I love the outdoors.
In the book Brian’s Return by Gary Paulson, Brian has returned from the woods and is now back in the daily life of civilization. After being back for quite some time, Brian had gotten into some trouble and had to go see a therapist about it. Brian tells this therapist how he feels about being back. From there on, Brian decides to find himself again that he would have to go back to the woods. I liked this book because it gives thoughts about Brian’s way of how he sees the world. I also like this
In the book Brian’s Return by Gary Paulson, Brian has returned from the woods and is now back in the daily life of civilization.
After being back for quite some time, Brian had gotten into some trouble and had to go see a therapist about it.
Brian tells this therapist how he feels about being back.
From there on, Brian decides to find himself again that he would have to go back to the woods.
It gave description of the scene where when I was reading I could easily imagine the places Brian was at in the book.
The book I read was Brian's Return by Gary Paulsen which is another continuation of Brian's story.
In this story Brian goes back to nature after a nasty fight.
The saga still takes place in the Canadian wilderness, Brian is heading to friends he met a long his journeys who live in the wilderness.
One Brian's way there he gets into some complications like an arrow going through his leg.
On his way Brian meets up with a man that hep Brian discover himself and other secrets.
Brian still has a long way ahead of him.
I think that this book is awesome. I have always loved books by Gary Paulsen. He just knows how to make people want to read the book. I recommend this book to everyone. If you don't like it, then don't read it. I think that just about everyone will like this book. I wish that I could be Brian. Going out into the middle of know where all by yourself. Also having to survive by killing things. Having to do everything by yourself, with nobodies help.
I really like this series. I love how descriptive the author is. The way the woods are described is just amazing. Brian's journey through this book was not quite as eventful as the last. Either way this book was still a great addition to the series. I think it's interesting how Brian forgot most of the basics of being in the woods. It was cool to see him re learn it all.
It is safe to say that the books following Hatchet didn't need to exist.
Its a good book about Brian going back into the wilderness because he doesn't like the city and the press. follows him and asks about it.
