https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397150.Scary_Stories_3
This book is featured on Halloween Reads for Kids @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...This is a book full of chilling stories and urban legends which are sure to get you trembling.
The illustrations are incredibly creepy!Footsteps, Such Things Happen, The Wolf Girl, and The Trouble are a few of our favorites.
The stories in this book are still creepy to me, even as an adult!
Great to have on the Halloween shelf.5*****
Imagine my horror when I found out (while I was re-reading the series) that when they reprinted the books as a 30th anniversary celebration, they changed the artwork.
While Brett Helquist is a talented artist, what made this book series really great was the strange art by Gammell.
They are great...more of a literal interpretation of the stories....but....it just isn't Scary Stories without Stephen Gammell.
This series stands out because of the original artwork by Gammell.
My son remembers these books 17 years after we first read them because of Gammell's artwork.
It isn't the same outstanding series without the original art.
The "Scary Stories" trio was one of the more infamous books at my elementary school's library - everyone wanted to read them, and for good reason - they're fun, spooky, and the illustrations are both beautiful and downright terrifying!
The stories within these three books range from silly and cheesy to unsettling and scary, especially for a book aimed at younger readers!
But I highly recommend all three books for younger and older readers alike.
I would also like to note that the "new" edition of these books with different illustrations should be skipped...
The perfect book to get me into the Halloween spirit!
4.5 stars YES! YES! YES!Finally, I got the chance to read the final set of stories from Alvin Schwartz and Stephen Gammell’s controversial yet popular series, “Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark” called “Scary Stories 3: More Tales to Chill Your Bones!” In celebration of Halloween, I have decided to revisit this little gem of a series again and I was seriously not disappointed!This book mostly has a set of scary stories that will haunt you in your sleep, so here are a couple of stories out of th
YES!Finally, I got the chance to read the final set of stories from Alvin Schwartz and Stephen Gammell’s controversial yet popular series, “Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark” called “Scary Stories 3: More Tales to Chill Your Bones!” In celebration of Halloween, I have decided to revisit this little gem of a series again and I was seriously not disappointed!This book mostly has a set of scary stories that will haunt you in your sleep, so here are a couple of stories out of this collection:
Duh, assholes.Did you know there's a section in the back that tells the origins of all the stories? I didn't. Because that's about the last thing I wanted to read as a kid. Oh, a bunch of text with almost no pictures, and it references other books and shit? NO THANKS. But as an adult, I have a modicum of patience. I don't know how to measure modicums, how many modicums you get to a gallon or whatever, but enough patience to read a few pages and learn some fascinating shit.
A great ending to the series that is better than the second installment equipped with top notch illustrations and interesting tales.
Favorites: The Black Dog, Bess, Harold, Maybe You Will Remember, The Red Spot, and The Trouble

after two other books i had feared the third would be missing something but it truly does is not. it's just as enchanting and scary as the first two and i can see myself rereading this series for years to come.
I don't know what was different about this one. Maybe it's me. But I loved this one...
I don’t think most of these stories were particularly scary or well told, but they’re kinda fun, and some had a good creepy base or nice chilling elements. The thing I found most interesting were the notes at the back, where the author described the history or origins or the story, along with noting similar stories and talking about story categories and classifications, according to folklorists. Don’t skip those fascinating notes. Nice illustrations, too. More accurate rating: 3.5
I'm a 31 year old man and I read some of these stories before bed and they creeped me the fuck out. The illustrations are truly terrifying. Well done, Stephen Gammell. Well done.
Not as good as the first two.
The final chapter of Scary Stories! As fun as the other 2. Now I can give them to my nephew for his 7th birthday! And I finally realized where I knew Brett Helquist from. He illustrated Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events!
This is a collection of strange, scary, shocking, gross and funny stories for older children. The tales presented are an interesting mix of old and new and our girls loved them. I was less enthused about the collection, although a good storyteller could have a lot of fun with these stories. The illustrations were scarier than the tales, in my opinion, but overall it was an interesting compilation. We've also read Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark and More Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark.
A poltergeist that specializes in unscrewing bottle-caps...a couple who bring home a strange-looking
We got all the good Nickelodeon shows (You Can't Do That On Television, Are You Afraid of the Dark, All That, Roundhouse, all the cool Euro-anime-esque cartoon shows like Spartakus), Ninja Turtles, My Little Pony, Rainbow Brite, books like Wait Til Helen Comes and Dollhouse Murders.
All those were awesome and at the risk of sounding uber condescending, I feel for the kids who grew up without all that we 80s and 90s kids got.
But what really stands out for me was a summer night before I started second grade...See the rest of my review at my blog.
:)http://tiffanyapanwritingproject.blog...
Although I am a huge fan of Gammell's work, I feel like the stories in here could have been written a little better. Some are only a paragraph long, which in my mind is not enough to tell a story fully and completely. I must say I enjoyed both the writing and the artwork in the first book much more.
This will never not be one of my favorite series! I may not be as spooked like I was as a child but they are classic! Also the mention of my hometown is pretty cool too! I love the old illustrations but Brett Heloquist is one of my favorite illustrators ever and I can't complain if he did the new art!
The Third book was the only one from the trilogy that we had in our school library growing up.
Just Delicious- Hilarious Like Cat’s Eyes- creepyBess- HA Harold- I had a great time visualizing this The Dead Hand-Awesome and creepyThe Wolf Girl- I thought It and the Red Spot was the creepiest of all the stories The Dream- I had an eerily similar dream with the same room  Sam’s New Pet- I laughed so hard I would probably do this tooMaybe You Will Remember- My actual worst fucking nightmare The Red Spot- Second graders totally believe this (trust me)No Thanks- Not goodThe Trouble- It’s basically Poltergeist with a lame twist Strangers- Not good The Hog-dawwwIs Something Wrong?- HahahaIt’s Him!- Husband dies and gets clingy T-H-U-P-P-P-P-P-P-P!: lol why you want to hear the audiobookYou May be the Next-Also why you want to hear the audiobookaudiobook https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZQvlL...
I remember reading this entire series and being tickled and haunted by the seriously disturbing illustrations.
And there was another book - something about some teenagers getting their drivers licenses and immediately drunk driving themselves off a cliff in all sorts of gorey glory (possibly also becoming ghosts?)At any rate, a few years back it was announced they were revoking the original illustrations for this series and that broke my heart, so I stocked up on them and will blame them for any and all of my problems adjusting to normal society.
This is the book I remember the best out of the trilogy. I have read all 3 books today back to back and have had so much fun! So much nostalgia. I am so glad I found these editions with the original illustrations. They just wouldn't be the same without them. Definitely check these books out if you haven't ever read them. They aren't that scary or particularly well written, but they are definitely loads of fun!
This is another great read with many little short stories.
First time rereading since I was a kid - these still hold up!
Another one from my childhood!While these stories are nowhere near as scary to me now as they were to me as a child, I still found them enjoyable. The pictures however, are still terrifying.
Scary + Creepy
This book is about scary stories that will chill your bones. There is over 20 scary stories. My faviorite story is foot steps it's about2 girls and they think there mom is out and soon they hear footsteps and they think it's there mom but soon they knew it was not there mother so the girl starts yelling at the 'man' telling him to get out. I recommend this book to people that like scary books
New York: Harper Collins.Categories: Controversial books, supernatural stories, folklore and legends, short stories, series26 traditional and modern-day scary stories are presented in this book.
The gruesome topics - death, ghosts, eating body parts from a dead person, dying from fear, nightmares - have made this book and the others in the series targets for frequent challenges.
In the back of the book are notes about the origins of the stories and a bibliography.
I think this would be good for some reluctant boy readers as most of the stories are very short (1-5 pages).
l think that they are oson because they tell scary storesm and they you tell them at the night and y
