https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6117055-the-greatest-show-on-earth
Despite all this, Darwin found arguments which soon convinced a large part of his audience that their ideas about Young Earth Creationism were wrong.Dawkins continually quotes Darwin.
He shows that even though Darwin didn't understand how evolution works - no one knew about DNA yet, or even the basics of genetic theory - the evidence at his disposal produced an overwhelming case that evolution must be the the root cause of the huge diversity of observed species.
Since Darwin's time, nearly all of the missing parts of his argument have been filled in, as Dawkins explains here.
This state of affairs would be repugnant enough if it was a privately held fantasy; instead what Dawkins gets is constant bombardment from imbeciles who want creation 'science' 'theory' taught alongside evolution in schools, as if there was some competition between the two.
For your average layman, it's not his fault that science education standards are so poor, or that lying snake oil salesmen like Ken Ham successfully peddle bullshit for a living.Having considered all that, I'm fairly convinced that your typical creationist response to this book will be a glassy stare and a trickle of drool.
I am so happy that there are people out there who are speaking out in defense of evolution and (although not in this book) atheism, and as such I want to support Richard Dawkins.
However, the best way I can sum up my feelings about the book is to say that it resembles a very long version of an undergraduate's final paper on evolution.
Not to mention that his goal would have been better served had he saved all of his half-assed, baseless speculations for beers with the fellas and used the space in the book to include more evidence for evolution.

Interestingly there are as yet no fossils - as yet - linking that ancestor (which was neither chimpanzee nor human) to modern chimpanzees....but there are other ways of proving our connection to chimps.* OUT OF THE SEAAll animals originated in the sea, and some, like whales, manatees and dugongs went back into the water.
3.75 stars. Felt a bit too technical for an un-science-y person like I. Nevertheless, 'twas bloody brilliant.Have a few unresolved queries, guess I have to find answers, somewhere else...
In all of his science books and especially in The Greatest Show on Earth: The Evidence For Evolution, He has taken a complex subject and presented it with clarity to a population that usually gets lost in the seemingly foreign language of most scientists.
Yet I also think that the 40 percent number includes a good number of people who on "on the fence" so to speak, those who simply haven't seen the evidence for evolution presented in such a clear and understandable manner.
He paints a beautiful picture of how evolution really works and why that helps you appreciate this amazing world we live in just a little more.I won't get into some of the details he shares, but based on the facts that Dawkins reveals in his appendix about the exceedingly high percentage of people that believe in a creationist view, I thing every high school student should have to read this book.
If you don't believe in evolution, look at the evidence and then see if you feel the same way afterward - that is, if you are truly interested in answers to the big questions of life.
and i'm not a creationist and i believe in evolution and i want to read this book because evolution is really interesting to me and i, too, want to take on Young Earth Creationists.however, dawkins has a Most terrible habit of dissing not only creationists, but anyone who believes in God, and tarring us all with the same brush and just generally being that One Specific Sort of Atheist who is very arrogant and thinks that all religious people are stupid.also, i'm not entirely sure why you would write a book that claims to want to convince creationists that they're wrong with such a strident tone, but i suppose dawkins just can't resist being annoying, can he.i'm going to read it, though, because evolution.
Dawkins arguments for evolution are elegant and, in some cases, simply breath-taking.
Although facts have always been denied by those who claim Intelligent Design as a valid explanation for all nature, Dawkins painstakingly and elegantly lays out unassailable facts in support of the theory of evolution.
He stakes his claim early in the book ("...evolution is a fact.
Beyond reasonable doubt, beyond serious doubt, beyond sane, informed, intelligent doubt....That said, I doubt seriouly that his book will challenge those who view evolution as only a theory, precisely because they would never open their minds to such a text as this!
After reading this book, I quickly realized that it was targeted for a particular audience--the choir complete with holy robes and clapping hands shouting, "...Preach it brother Dawkins, preach it my brother, Evolution AMEN!, Hallelujah!" I honestly think that it is required that you be a Dawkinite and part of the Dawkins Tabernacle Choir in order for you to take this book seriously.
For a guy who claimed many books on evolution under his belt yet forgot to give evidence to all his previous ones until TGSOE (He even admits this), I am amazed at what people are willing to believe simply because someone says it to be thus.
I cannot see how anyone who approaches the subject from a scholarly viewpoint can take this book seriously.
A really well written, interesting, logical discussion on evolution. I quite enjoyed this book.
Most of what Dawkins explains in this book was not yet known when I went to school.My jaw was dropping several times during this most pleasurable trip through the physical evidence of evolution.
He didAll things scabbed and cancerousAll pox great and smallPutrid, foul and gangrenousThe Lord God made them all.And if you ever want to marvel at nature, look at this virus, that looks like a lunar lander.http://www.armageddononline.org/image...And this is just a single cell?https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/im...I did not know that the skeleton of all mammals is identical in the structure and sequence of bones.
Richard Dawkins has crafted a masterpiece dedicated to explaining evolution in a way that the layman can understand, providing excellent examples of evidence from fossil evidence to observable evidence, genetic evidence, and so on.
Richard Dawkins takes it slow at first, leading up from artificial and sexual selection to get the reader accustomed to the idea of natural selection.
Richard Dawkins writes with a passion and devotion that is difficult to understand for creationists.
I have already recommended this book to several friends and some creationists that I've debated, but I encourage everybody to read this at some point in their life.
I wish I'd had engaging and interesting texts like this to read when I had to take science classes in high school.
I always wanted to like science so much, but I always got bogged down in minutae, in questions the text or teachers didn't address, and in the boredom of rote memorization.
This book really made me like biology.
Much like the ones I stared at in biology or earth science instead of paragraphs of text.
It absolutely engaged my visual approach to learning.I really enjoyed the way various bits of evidence for evolution were put forth, and weaved into other parts.
Oh, Dawkins. Tell me more of evolution, please. Speak to me of genes and their ways. Teach me things about the world. I could read this stuff for hours. I am endlessly fascinated and the more I understand of evolution, the more I am aware of how unbelievably lucky I am that I exist, that anything exists, that I can learn about it.
So, I admire Dawkins as both a scientist and a writer.
His passion for science and the endless search for truth is infectious and his talent for writing magnificent prose is noteable.I had the pleasure to go see him speak at the Center for Inquiry in D.C., and also got to mingle with him before the show (a fun story for sure).
Needless to say, he was amazing.
I know some people think he is an angry atheist, but I think they are missing the point, and he does a great job of making his point at the beginning of this book.
So much information yet very readable.
This isn't the best introductory book I've read on evolution, Dawkins loves to insult the people who don't hold his views, goes way to far sometimes to get his point across and has a tendency to ramble on and mention interesting but irrelevant stuff.
When I started reading this book, I put it down for a while because I got tired of the creationist rants, which apparently the high number of people who deny evolution is why this book is written.
It’s not as bad as The God Delusion for anti-theist statements, though there are a few speckled in there, and he makes a fairly good line of argument.Of course, since I think evolution is an obvious conclusion, so I’m not exactly the audience he was hoping to convince — and it’s likely I didn’t notice instances of his usual arrogant attitude that would bother someone who doesn’t already believe in the same things.
Even without the evidence we have now, he saw the necessary chain of events, and he was much more sympathetic to other views, and meticulous about his evidence.Nonetheless, Dawkins’ book is clear and pretty well-written; I just don’t like his attitude, and I don’t think he will reach the desired audience.Originally posted here.

Another great book by Richard Dawkins. This is a wonderful book that richly describes, in immense details, the wonder that is evolution. Here is a book that really shows the awe of science, and nature and how the world has become the great cornucopia of life that it has become.
"We are surrounded by endless forms, most beautiful and most wonderful, and it is no accident, but the direct consequence of evolution by non-random natural selection – the only game in town, the greatest show on Earth."I remember reading about Richard Dawkins a few years ago and (mistakenly) he seemed arrogant and cynical.
And then step-by-step, he takes the major arguments against evolution and sets out to dismantle them with detailed examples and explanations.
Infact, as I already think evolution is true and was trying to understand it better, it sometimes felt as though he was being too detailed.
My first question, upon finishing it, is "who is this for?"The science is too involved for a scientifically illiterate fundamentalist creationist audience, the sardonic tone likewise off-putting to them, and the atheists like me who share his broad perspective hardly need a hand-held walk through the garden of nature's wonders and weirdnesses.Then again, maybe we do: it should be emphasised that this book makes for a fantastic full spectrum look at the subject of evolutionary theory, one complete with some excellent analogies, stunning facts, and wise correlations.
I can not emphasize enough how much I admire and respect Richard Dawkins.
His books are veritable university courses on biology, anthropology and natural history, this one is no exception.
Richard is so passionate about his vocation that he sometimes forgets that some of us don't have his stamina, much less his vocabulary.Dawson excels at anticipating counter arguments, probably because he hears them frequently, and he is quick to offer rock solid scientific evidence to bolster his bullet points.
He also has a knack for coming at issues from various angles.
here comes a paragraph of chemistry for good measure.
This is what I love about Dawkins.
I've never been one to push my opinions on others, and I consider myself an open minded person, but I feel that people don't believe in evolution, simply because they don't want to believe in it.
However, I am happy to say that once again Richard Dawkins has presented the unifying theory of evolution convincingly.
Unfortunately, the only people that would be willing to read this with an open mind are evolution enthusiasts, like myself.
This book is charismatic, scientific and a brilliant read.
And on a personal note, I look forward to reading my next Dawkins book.
Always vowing to never answer a challenge directly, Dawkins does it in the best way he possibly could, by demonstrating why evolution is true.He seemingly leaves no stone uncovered in the challenge, often tackling direct claims made by creationists and demonstrating why they are false.
In 2009, Jerry Coyne released "Why Evolution is True" which though I have not yet read, I imagine covers many similar themes and evidences.The other issue is of course that this book is NOT going to be read by the very people it is directed at.
His target is the "intelligent design" approach to explaining why species end up as they are--explicitly rejecting Darwinian evolutionary theory.The book features many fascinating examples of evolution in action--including demonstrating that many species do NOT exhibit anything like intelligent design.
His description of the wacky nerve structure of giraffes shows the willy nilly nature of evolution--and is certainly not consistent with the concept of intelligent design.Anyone familiar with other of Dawkins' works will not be surprised at what a nice read this book is.
در این اثر عالی از داوکینز، ایشون ابتدا از افرادی که طراحی هوشمندانه رو قبول دارن و خلقت گرا هستن راجع به فرگشت و شواهد اون سوال می پرسه و بعد از اینکه اونها از دادن جواب به ایشون باز موندن، حقایق علمی رو بازگو میکنه و نشون میده که فرگشت به عنوان یک حقیقت علمی توسط دانشمندان و افراد هوشمند پذیرفته شده اما متاسفانه همچنان افرادی هستن که فرگشت رو تئوری میدونن.
با بررسی فسیل های بدست اومده از پرندگان و همچنین اجداد ما، بررسی زمانی مربوط به اونها، و شواهد فرگشت اونها که توسط بیولوژی مولکولی و ژنتیک تایید شده، مهر تایید محکمی بر فرگشت میزنه.
I am almost sad to finish this excellent book, my fifth of Dawkins'. It ranks right up there with Climbing Mount Improbable and River out of Eden. Dawkins writes beautifully, especially for a scientist, with a combination of erudition and wit. I have a fairly strong background in science, but I don't think that this book would be too much of a slog for the intelligent humanities-based reader. The book's subtitle is The Evidence for Evolution, and the case he makes is cogent and convincing (although he's definitely preaching to the choir with this reader.)
Evolution : The only game in town, the greatest show on earth.
