https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34462.Naomi
”It is often said that ‘women deceive men.’ But from my experience, I’d say that it doesn’t start with the woman deceiving the man. Rather, the man, without any prompting, rejoices in being deceived; when he falls in love with a woman, everything she says, whether true or not, sounds adorable to our ears…. I know what you are up to, but I’ll let you tempt me.” Jōji’s Lolita.Jōji is a salaryman. He grew up on a wealthy farm in the country and has no desire to return. He enjoys the benefits of liv
Mary Pickford is the prototype for Naomi.So in the beginning he has complete control.
Naomi is embracing her modernization and has discovered that men find her desirable.
Naomi embracing her modernization in the 1967 movie adaptation called The Love of an Idiot”The precious, sacred ground of her skin had been imprinted forever with the muddy tracks of two thieves.”The Shimizu white peach has been bruised.
Junichiro Tanizaki’s book had an enormous impact on Japanese women who were just beginning to reject the traditional housewife role and embrace the Western idea of female freedom.
He envisions a closed off union with only the two of them, like pet and master, man and wife, nobody else, as if to say “let the world burn, but give me Naomi.” Romantic love is a fragile, jealous, and possessive concept that needs trust to blossom, while in turn, for trust to thrive it needs fidelity.
The emotional and sexual aspects of a romantic relationship are two different but codependent functions.
However, for Joji, he has merely done what a husband in love would do: accept his wife despite her flaws.
The imminent answers seem to be modified under the existing challenges of Joji modifying his young love into a woman who sparkles through the lens of modernity.
The battle of sexes emerging from the volatile deliberations between emancipation of love v/s of emancipation of sexual desires, overpowers the relationship coordination of Joji and Naomi disquieting the balance of power between the societal gradation in dominance of man and the subservience of a woman.
The irresistible appeal to the coined “Naoism” embodies cultural ambiguity unearthing the recognition of power and essence of sensuality engulfing the desire to fit in a Western lifestyle.
Is it a story of Japanese obsession over European customs?
Is it a story about attempts to 'liberate' women by giving them new outfits and money yet still posing them as dolls?
This is a short, crisp novella about a mousy businessman, Jouji, and his obsession over a pubescent waitress half his age, Naomi.
His desire here is to mold her into a daughter/wife/object of adoration - he wants her to call him 'Papa'.
Jouji is a fool, but he is no docile one - he is abusive and violent, yet lapses into quiet servitude.
Bu kitabın #Jaguar yayınları tarafından yayımlanan İlker Özünlü'nün çevirisinden okudum.Japonya'da geçen bir aşk romanı, daha doğrusu tek taraflı bir aşkın, arzunun tutkunun, aynı zamanda batıya hayranlığın romanı. Batılı gibi olmak ve batılı gibi yaşamak için kendi benliğini de yitirmenin romanı. Tavsiye ederim.
Hikâyenin kahramanı Joji'nin aptallığa varan tutkusu aşırı derecede hastalıklı. Çok zavallı ve zayıf bir karakter yaratmış Tanizaki burada. Kadın karakter Naomi ise kelimenin tam anlamıyla "melek görünümlü şeytan".Joji'ye çok acısam da bir o kadar kızdım. Ne erkek ne kadın, kimse bu kadar aciz ve duygularının, daha doğrusu arzularının esiri olmamalı.Naomi, tüm Tanizaki eserleri gibi akıcı insanın kendini kaptırarak okuyacağı türden bir hikâye.Enteresan... Gerçekten de "bir budalanın aşkı" ve Naomi "ete kemiğe bürünmüş şeytani kötülük"ten başka bir şey değil.
ถาพูดถึงผลงานทีดังสุดๆ ของทานิซากิ จุนอิจิโร กตองเรือง รักของคนเขลา(1924) นีละนะคะ ดีใจจริงๆ ที JLit แปลเปนภาษาไทยแลว คุณพรพิรุณ กิจสมเจตน แปลดีมาก ขอบคุณทีมงาน JLit ดวยคะ หนังสืออานงายจริงๆ สุดยอด ปกติเราจะบอกคนอืนวางานของทานิซากิเปนอีโรติกดรามา แต "รักของคนเขลา" เรียกวาเปนแนวตลกรายนาจะเหมาะกวา เปนตลกรายของเกมการชวงชิงอำนาจระหวางชายหญิง ใครจะอยูเหนือใคร ใครจะเปนฝายถูกกำราบ และเขาทำอะไรใสกันบางอานจนจบแลวกไดแตยอนนึกวา ไหนตอนตนคุณโจจิตังใจจะชุบเลียงนาโอมิจังใหเปนเลดีไง นีมันเลดีชนิดไหนกันคะ?จะเรีย
ถ้าพูดถึงผลงานที่ดังสุดๆ ของทานิซากิ จุนอิจิโร ก็ต้องเรื่อง รักของคนเขลา(1924) นี่ล่ะนะคะ ดีใจจริงๆ ที่ JLit แปลเป็นภาษาไทยแล้ว คุณพรพิรุณ กิจสมเจตน์ แปลดีมาก ขอบคุณทีมงาน JLit ด้วยค่ะ หนังสืออ่านง่ายจริงๆ สุดยอด ปกติเราจะบอกคนอื่นว่างานของทานิซากิเป็นอีโรติกดราม่า แต่ "รักของคนเขลา" เรียกว่าเป็นแนวตลกร้ายน่าจะเหมาะกว่า เป็นตลกร้ายของเกมการช่วงชิงอำนาจระหว่างชายหญิง ใครจะอยู่เหนือใคร ใครจะเป็นฝ่ายถูกกำราบ และเขาทำอะไรใส่กันบ้างอ่านจนจบแล้วก็ได้แต่ย้อนนึกว่า ไหนตอนต้นคุณโจจิตั้งใจจะชุบเลี้ยงนาโอมิจังให้เป็นเลดี้ไง นี่มันเลดี้ชนิดไหนกันคะ?จะเรียกเป็นฝันหวานหรือเทพนิยายสำหรับชายหนุ่มดี เพราะดูเหมือนนาโอมิคือฝันดีชนิดที่หนุ่มๆ ไม่อยากจะตื่น ถึงจะรู้ทั้งรู้ว่านางเป็นฝันร้ายชัดๆแต่ก็นะ...
ตัวละครชายของทานิซากิเป็นพวกชอบตำแยนี่นา และพอแปะยี่ห้อทานิซากิเข้าไป ก็คาดการณ์ได้ว่าไม่มีอะไรฟีลกู้ดรออยู่ข้างหน้าแน่นอนเราลองพยายามวิเคราะห์สาเหตุที่ทำให้เรื่องนี้เป็นที่กล่าวขวัญ เป็นหมุดหมายหนึ่งในวงวรรณกรรมญี่ปุ่นดู ก็พบว่ามันมีองค์ประกอบที่ส่งเสริมเรื่องนี้อยู่มากจริงๆ ค่ะ๑.
ในแง่ประวัติศาสตร์ อันนี้ไม่แปลกใจ ถ้าเทียบกับนิยายเรื่องอื่นของทานิซากิ เรื่องรักของคนเขลาฉายสภาพสังคมยุคไทโชไว้มากจริงๆ ขนาดไม่ใช่คนญี่ปุ่นยังนึกตามได้ไม่ยาก กลุ่มชาวต่างชาติในโยโกฮาม่า ไปเรียนภาษาอังกฤษกับแหม่ม แต่งตัวอย่างฝรั่ง เต้นรำที่แดนซ์ฮอลล์ นั่งรถไฟเดินทางไปทำงาน พักร้อนตากอากาศ ดื่มน้ำผึ้งพระจันทร์ สถานบันเทิงในยุคนั้น ฯลฯ ในเรื่อง Some Prefer Nettles(1929) ก็ฉายภาพสังคมไว้มาก แต่เล่มนั้นเน้นเรื่องละครหุ่น ซึ่งมันเฉพาะทางไปหน่อย สภาพสังคมในเล่มรักของคนเขลาดูชัดเจนและเข้าใจง่ายกว่าเยอะเลย๒.
โอโห มันละเอียดมาก สุดยอด เขียนมาได้ยังไงก็ไม่รู้ตัวละครอีกตัวที่อาการหนักพอกันคือชายชราใน Diary of a Mad Old Man(1961)สมควรพบจิตแพทย์ทั้งคู่ค่ะ และนักศึกษาสายจิตวิทยาน่าจะระบุอาการสองตัวละครนี้กันได้สนุกสนานมาก เพราะมีเพียบเลยมีความคาดหวังว่า JLit จะใจดีแปล The Makioka Sisters และเรื่องอื่นๆ ของทานิซากิเป็นภาษาไทยอีก อยากอ่านจังเลยค่ะ :-)ถ้าใครยังไม่เคยอ่านงานเขียนของทานิซากิ เริ่มที่ "รักของคนเขลา" ก็ได้ค่ะ อ่านไม่ยาก แปลดี หาซื้อง่ายด้วยแต่อ่านเล่มนี้เล่มเดียวจะเห็นพลังของทานิซากิไม่ครบถ้วน ควรหาอ่านอย่างน้อยอีกสามเล่มค่ะ คือ เยิรเงาสลัว(สนพ.
openbooks) รักแสร้ง แรงเสน่หา Quicksand(สนพ.บ้านหนังสือ) และ เดอะคีย์ The Key(สนพ.
บ้านหนังสือ)ควรอ่านสามเล่มที่ว่ามานี้ก่อนจะตัดสินใจว่าชอบหรือไม่ชอบงานของทานิซากิค่ะ :-)
Boredom offered this up to me in spades, but Naomi’s stage set, however elaborately colorful, had a hollow ring, a hollow pounding of costumed feet on pine planks.But I just know that that trap door exists in Naomi, so maybe it’s either repressed beyond detection, or else folded completely into the surface action and thus robbed of some of its power; power that depends on this door being the entry to a hidden place.
Is this my backhanded booknerd way of entering into a mid-life crisis of my own?
Aslında 3,5. Yine sado-mazo ilişkinin anlatıldığı bir Tanizaki romanı bu. Tuhaf bir şekilde şu ana kadar okuduğum tüm Tanizaki romanlarında erkekler haddinden fazla acı çekiyor. Yıllar yıllar önce Tanizaki'nin Anahtar romanından aldığım tadı aldım bundan da. Peki neden beş yıldız veremiyorum? Yazarın böyle bir karakter yaratabilme yeteneği aslında takdire şayan ama ben Naomi'den daha fazla Joji'den nefret ettim. Joji'nin bu derece acı çekme arzusu midemi bulandırdığı gibi uzun zamandır bir roman karakterinden bu kadar etkilenmediğimi de itiraf etmem lazım. Yine de acı çektim kitabı okurken. Joji'nin aptallığı, mazoşistliği acı verdi.
As it happens -- and like a lot of their contemporaries in 1920s urban Japan -- the two find themselves under the spell of western cultural influences; the clothes, the movies, the products and the mores and habits, including freer sexual expression and expanded possibilities for women.
I would have liked that to have been stated a little more directly.The book kept my attention the whole way, though, and its insights into the changing culture of Japan were fascinating to me.
1 foolish starWhat the hell did I just read??No. Why the hell did I even bother to read this book at all???!!!God seriously I hated everything about this book!This book was exactly like what the original title said『痴人の愛』 or often translated as 'A Fool's Love'.Jōji was a lunatic masochist.
I HATE HER SO MUCH!!At first this story was started out good and I found very interesting.
But then this Naomi bitch started to pissed me off, so I decided to leave this book on paused for months!After months abandoned this book, I felt bad because I hate to DNF a book, especially the ones I bought in physical copy.
But now I've read this book, I found all those praises were just a lie.
1920'lerin Japonya'sında geçen, Lolita'ya ve Tanzimat dönemi romanlarına göz kırpan (Evet, Tanzimat!) bir roman.
Dönem Japonya'sına tanıklık etmek açısından ilginç.
Bir yandan dans kulupleri, batı tarzı restoranlar, müzik dükkanları varken, bir yandan da elle çekilen arabalardan, kimonolardan, takunyalardan bahsediliyor.İbret olması amacıyla yazılsa da didaktik tonun baskın olmaması kitabı okunabilir kılıyor.
Çeviri genel olarak duru ve okunabilir (fakat zaman zaman İngilizce çeviri kokan cümleler de yok değil).
Aynı şeyler daha konsantre bir biçimde yazılabilir, veya kitabın uzunluğu korunarak yoğunluğu artırılabilirdi.
Yine de 1920'lerde yazılmış olduğunu ve roman kültürü olmayan bir ülkeden çıktığını düşünürsek, imkanları ölçüsünde başarılı bir şekilde kaleme alındığını söyleyebilirim.
Điều duy nhất khiến mình còn nhận ra Tanizaki là đam mê "khổ dâm" luôn biến các nhân vật của mình thành kẻ hèn hạ hết mức như chó lợn, không còn chút tự trọng. Anw, cái mình say mê Tanizaki là thói hài hước hóm hỉnh mà mình tưởng là bẩm sinh và những cái twist rất sốc mà mình tin là tài năng thì không còn tí gì trong "Tình khờ". Thật sự phải đọc trong cảnh mong nó nhanh hết để đổi sang cuốn khác. Chán quá đê!
Men gave rights to women; men never should have been in the position to give rights in the first place.I said in a status that this book is a great litmus test, and this holds true because in the end, who takes Jōji seriously?
And why would someone keep to the truth when the truth is enforced isolation with a slavering patriarch in a life that acts out Ibsen's 'A Doll's House' from a different angle and, in a sense, higher stakes?I make it a rule to never pity the person in power, for the fact that Naomi isn't beaten or (successfully) caged and doesn't end up in some back alley with her throat slit doesn't make Jōji anything worth humanizing, for he merely refuses (on one level, at least) to do various things that society would love to let him get away with.
His cretinous descent into her thrall is actually pretty hilarious, though you're compelled to root for him, so desperately stupid does he act.There's a lot of nuance here on many levels (American influence, Japanese cultural schizophrenia in the face of rising militarism, etc), but it's more fun to read this as a novel about a clever "modern girl", whatever the hell that means (it inspired a movement at the time called something like that), and the idiot who loves her.
A cursory examination of Jun’ichirō Tanizaki’s Naomi will undoubtedly perturb readers: a novel that centres on the protagonist Joji’s unhealthy obsession with 15-year-old Naomi.
And whilst I think it is okay to read for immersion; equally, it is the broader concepts and ideas that can be taken away from a novel that can only make us better readers and humans.
What’ll you do if my hands get all fat?” And this is precisely what makes Naomi a stand-alone.
He oscillates from derision and aversion to enchantment, which may irritate the reader, but I think ultimately makes the novel so attune to the psychological.
4+ stars. This is, indeed, a charming book. Told in a straightforward naturalistic style, it translates well, and reads easily, effortlessly. A story of sexual obsession, but a tender story. This is early Tanizaki (1925). A very nice book.
On one level it's a story of a slightly older man in love with a young girl. But being Tanizaki, it is also about old Japan in love with the modern (early 20th Century) world. Either way this book has it all: eroticism, obsession, and smart as well.
The literal translation of the original 痴人の愛 would be "Idiot's Love" but this might not sound very attractive to English-speaking people; "Idiotic Love" or "Foolish Love" might work, but using the main female character's name is an acceptable alternative.
I read this in Japanese, and I am not familiar with any of the English translation.
I guess it's hard to appreciate a book that was written almost a century ago in another country.
I see the book intro says "hilarious" story ...
At least, back when this was written, the story was completely serious.
Silly, foolish, yes.
اذا اعتقدتم أن روايتي سخيفة ..ارجوكم أن تضحكوا واذا اعتقدتم إنها تتضمن تجربة أخلاقية فارجو أن تكون درساً لكم وبالنسبة لي فإن رأيكم عني لن يُغير من الأمر شيئاً فانا أحب ناوومي" تزوجها فتاة صغيرة لا تتجاوز من العمر الخامسة عشر عاماً وأرادها فتاة عصرية متطورة على الطراز الغربي .. ظن إن بإمكانه أن يدللها كدمية بل ويحبسها كطائر في قفص طواعية أمره وتغافل عن غباءها .. فخذلته بعنادها وتمردها إلى حد لا يمكن تصوره ابداً ... ولكن لا بأس هو تقبله لذا لا يعنيه رأي قارئه ويتوهم إنه يحب فتاة اسمها ناوومي :/:/
This is a second novel that I’ve read of Tanizaki and I liked it.
Gogi is a twenty-eight man who fall in love with a maid teen, Naomi.
Her western name and style attract him and after sometime he go out with her and live with her.
Gogi have obsessive and destructive love that destroy him.
When you read another book of tanizaki, you know we have a sensitive lover who get stuck in a cobweb of dishonesty and deception.
For myself, it makes no difference what you think of me; I'm in love with Naomi.”
This book is one of the elite few on my Shelf Of Pain, which contains the books that sucker-punch me, that hurt, that make me cry, and make me like it. Tanizaki is a frigging genius, and I need to read more of his books, and maybe check out some Natsume while I'm at it. The central questions -- how powerful is female allure? what does it mean to be enslaved? -- are questions with a lot of resonance for me.
Naomi, Tanizaki’nin okuduğum ilk kitabı.
Kitabın ilk bölümünde, karakterlerin “melek” ve “şeytan” rolleri, son bölümde yer değiştiriyor.
Böylesine köklü ve asil bir gelenekten gelen Japon toplumunun, neredeyse aşağılık kompleksi düzeyindeki ezikliklerini tahmin bile edemezdim.
kalakalmış, söylemek istediğimi tam olarak ifade edememiştim....”; sf; 48, “...”Batılı dengi” ve “beğenilen” olmayı arzulayan her kadın...”; sf;49).
Osmanlı Tanzimat döneminin benzeri bir dönemi anlatıyor.
Ancak Metin üzerinden, o dönemde Osmanlı toplumundan farklı olarak Japon toplumunun, sarı ırka mensup olmalarından kaynaklanan sorunları da olduğunu düşündüm.
Diğer taraftan, bir çocuk yetiştirmenin hiç de kolay birşey olmadığını, bir alt metin olarak okumak mümkün.
En cambio, si meditamos y reflexionamos la lectura, nos damos cuenta que esta novela no trata solamente sobre una relación muy tóxica y cuestionable.Tanizaki recurre a una relación compleja, extraña y tóxica para plasmar un problema real que hubo en Japón.
En estas diferencias no solamente influye la edad, también la educación, inquietudes y los cambios que estaba sufriendo Japón.
Considero que en el fondo esta novela es una crítica hacia los intereses de la sociedad, hacia el egoísmo, hacia los prejuicios, hacia las tradiciones y también hacia las nuevas costumbres que están descubriendo.'El amor de un idiota' es una lectura que no recomendaría a la ligera, es compleja y considero que no es apta para todos los públicos.
My first Tanizaki. The detailed descriptions of Naomi's body so rich it was as though Joji (George) is appreciating every part of it through a magnifying glass. I'm not bothered to write a thorough analysis of the novel because as you know, there are already plenty of good ones out there. Very excited read others' reviews.メモです。お読み飛ばしください。女性の肉体美をこんなに艶かしく立体感をもって描写されたのを初めて読んだ。fetishismの真骨頂。譲治がナオミの鑑賞してるところが、虫眼鏡でパーツパーツを観察するかのように至近距離。近すぎて真相が見えなくなってしまった。
Đàn bà dễ có mấy tayĐàn ông cỡ này xin cũng quỳ luôn
She represented a sea change in the state of Japanese womanhood, a shift from timidness to temerity, a strong pull toward Western mores and fashions.However, for all her archetypal significance, Naomi is not likable.
He finds Naomi's Western name and appearance fascinating, yet clings to the belief that "Japanese should marry Japanese." Yet he spends hours each day drilling Naomi on her English lessons, sometimes resorting to verbal abuse when she misspeaks.
Naomi is more (or, perhaps more accurately, less) than a symbol of Westernization.
However, because we witness this strange marriage through Jōji's eyes only, we can only guess at the depths of his neurosis.
A businessman finds a 15 year old girl working in a cafe, takes her to live with him, teaches her, bathes her, buys her tons of clothes and marries her.
The 15 year old?
Yeah, me too.Naomi by Junichiro Tanizaki is the third book on my brother’s Japanese Literature syllabus.
Joji, the creeper who discovers Naomi in the cafe, narrates the novel.
At the climax of the novel, Joji actually mistakes her for a western woman and marvels at the “whiteness” of her skin.
I’m not sure what Tanizaki thought of Western culture and influence himself, but I would assume he felt it had a poor impact on Japan and its people.
Cho dù nhân cách của Naomi không khác gì "một con điếm chính hiệu" thì vẻ đẹp nhục dục của cô vẫn là thứ bắt Joji phải quỳ gối.
Đọc xong cuốn sách tôi cũng đành thở dài, thở dài vì hiểu tại sao Joji lại thành ra như thế và nói không ngoa nếu tôi là một người đàn ông, có lẽ tôi cũng chẳng có kết cục khác.
Và tận sâu trong thân tâm, tôi ngưỡng mộ Naomi, tất nhiên chẳng ai ngưỡng mộ một người đàn bà lăng loàn, bôi tro trát trấu vào mặt người yêu thương mình nhất cả.
Though she is only 15 when he meets her, Joji is almost immediately smitten with Naomi and devises a plan to raise her as his own child with the hopes of one day making her his wife.This is the point in the story, within the first few pages, where many readers will stop, look around, and wonder what they hell it is they are reading.
I can not remember feeling so many conflicting emotions within the pages of one novel, except perhaps when I read, you guessed it, Lolita.It would be easy to see Naomi as an allegory for Japan’s transition into a more Westernized culture.
