https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26596.Complete_Poems_1904_1962
Neither of us thought it would be necessary for him to tell me which one, and so I sent him this one:somewhere i have never travelled, gladly beyondany experience, your eyes have their silence:in your most frail gesture are things which enclose me,or which i cannot touch because they are too nearyour slightest look will easily unclose methough i have closed myself as fingers,you open always petal by petal myself as Spring opens(touching skillfully, mysteriously) her first roseor if your wish be to close me, i andmy life will shut very beautifully ,suddenly,as when the heart of this flower imaginesthe snow carefully everywhere descending;nothing which we are to perceive in this world equalsthe power of your intense fragility: whose texturecompels me with the color of its countries,rendering death and forever with each breathing(i do not know what it is about you that closesand opens; only something in me understandsthe voice of your eyes is deeper than all roses)nobody, not even the rain, has such small handsIt seemed the only reasonable assumption to make.
Dear Edward,In the rain-darkness, the sunset being sheathed, i sit and think of you.
And, though i am a little church (no great cathedral), I'd have made my love known to you, if ever we'd have had the serendipity of occupying the same space.
In fact, my dear, I'm quite certain I'd have stalked you.
I have always seen your truth.My dear, my love is building a building around you.
my love is building a magic, a discrete tower of magic, where I can still conjure your image, bring you back, after I have summoned your little voice with your own delicious words.
I love e.e.cummings' poetry. There is nothing like it. I can hardly review something so amazing, to be honest."there's time for laughing and there's time for crying -for hoping for despair for peace for longing- a time for growing and a time for dying:a night for silence and a day for singingbut more than all(as your more than eyestell me) there is a time for timelessness" e.e.c.And there's a time to shut up and just appreciate some amazing poetry.
anyone lived in a pretty how town(with up so floating many bells down)spring summer autumn winterhe 
oh that i could give this book every star, star in the starry sky every gasp whisper and wonder, every dream of a dream unheard of, sentences, the roar of my bleating beating heart. every blinking winking of my parabolic eyelashes, my moon wrists skyscraper calves bridged feet and the city of wonder that he has at one time never time discovered. my little mouth in open joy knows not the path to the sly slippery of his genius. He that questions language knows its secrets.
a sí ae tu ei am io my ou be u
E. Cummingssomewhere i have never travelled,gladly beyondany experience,your eyes have their silence:in your most frail gesture are things which enclose me,or which i cannot touch because they are too nearyour slightest look easily will unclose methough i have closed myself as fingers,you open always petal by petal myself as Spring opens(touching skilfully,mysteriously)her first roseor if your wish be to close me, i andmy life will shut very beautifully ,suddenly,as when the heart of this flower imaginesthe snow carefully everywhere descending;nothing which we are to perceive in this world equalsthe power of your intense fragility:whose texturecompels me with the color of its countries,rendering death and forever with each breathing(i do not know what it is about you that closesand opens;only something in me understandsthe voice of your eyes is deeper than all roses)nobody,not even the rain,has such small handsI was so ravished by this poem when i first came across it (sometime in highschool, i think) that i kept a copy of it tacked to my bedroom wall for a good 10 years thereafter.
Now I'm going to give you three words from a poem (which he'd heard recited in the movie) and I want you to tell me the poet.
Then I went and grabbed this book and read him this poem which I'd memorized in high school English.
He shook his head and said, "Is there a poet you don't know?" LOL!
I own about 200 books of poetry and have read them all.This compilation is one of my favorites and I peruse it often.
It'll take me a lifetime to digest all of Mr. Cummings' wonderful poetry.
of all the collections of e e's worksthis is the finestcomplete, of course, why wouldn't it be?"as is the sea marvelousfrom god’shands which sent her forthto sleep upon the worldand the earth withersthe moon crumblesone by onestars flutter into dustbut the seadoes not changeand she goes forth out of hands andshe returns into handsand is with sleep….love, the breakingof your soul uponmy lips"
i used to read this book on the floor of the bookstore in Singing River Mall in Gautier Mississippi cuz i had no money to buy it! then one Christmas my friend Andreabought it for me! i have not gotten tired of a single poem. reading his poetry is like reading it for the first time every time. fiercly original - startlingly beautiful.i cant say enough about this man and his talent.
This is on my "currently reading" list, becuase for me, this is a book you read in dribs and drabs. It's rather the same as if you don't want to O.D. on a potent drug, such is the Beauty of this volume. When I think of the word  poetrythis is one of the definitions. (see also ts eliot, stephen crane, homer, vergil, tennyson, and browning. for starters)sheer (exquitiness unbounded)utter (language unfetterd)magic(i guess i just loves all them little letters)
This book is mammoth, and I regret I have yet to read it fully.
cummings can be so frustrating that it is rather impossible to read this book from front to back like a good spy novel.
But, his imagery is beautiful, and on occasion it feels as if your mind has grafted into his when everything begins to click into place...
From the point of view of a writer, it's rather encouraging to watch a great mind work and struggle through earlier non-genius stages to eventually create masterpieces.
He is the father of free thinkers and all lovers.
He dared to be different.
He dared to be silly.
He soars high above all other poets who are earthbound by formulaic prose.
When I read one of his poems, it rattles my cage for days.
I am eternally grateful to my 7th grade English teacher in St. George, Utah, for introducing me to this American poet.
I have been reading his poems ever since and keep this book on my desk, next to my computer, so that I can pick it up, randomly open it, and be inspired.
"Buffalo Bill ’sdefunct who used to ride a watersmooth-silver stallionand break onetwothreefourfive pigeonsjustlikethat Jesushe was a handsome man  and what i want to know ishow do you like your blue-eyed boyMister Death" My favorite ee cummings poem. And I still am not entirely sure what it's about.(P.S. I can't get the spacing exactly right because of the review formatting but yeah)
you said Isyou said Isthere anything whichis dead or alive more beautifulthan my body,to have in your fingers(trembling ever so little)? Looking intoyour eyes Nothing,i said,except theair of spring smelling of never and forever.....and through the lattice which moved asif a hand is touched by ahand(whichmoved as thoughfingers touch a girl'sbreast,lightly) Do you believe in always,the windsaid to the rainI am too busy withmy flowers to believe,the rain answered
"i'd rather learn from one bird how to sing than teach ten thousand stars how not to dance."An amazing poet, never uses a capital letter...and he was not afraid of the censors of his time. Clear, moving, American poetry."as hat racks into peach trees grow..."
Did not read all of his poems. Read "in Just-", "next to god of course america i" and "anywho lived in a pretty how town"After reading some analyses of what the poems really mean, I liked them.
4.5
oleh syair cintanya yang membuai, saya pun takluk dan mencintainya sampai detik ini.
rasanya tak pernah bosan bercinta setiap malam dengan kata-katanya yang lembut dan penuh cinta.
seperti menemukan kata penghiburan; atas kesepian.
seperti menemukan bahu untuk bersandar; atas kelelahan.
dan seperti menemukan teman berbincang; tentang cinta dan mencintai, tentang kehidupan, dan tentang makna berpuisi itu sendiri; puisi adalah estetika kata.
_ini hanyalah cara saya untuk berbicara dengan puisinya.
ini dataran saya sendiri.
__*konon katanya, puisi Doveglion ini dipersembahkan untuk Jose Garcia Villa, seorang penyair Filipina, kritikus sastra, penulis cerita pendek, dan pelukis.
100 Selected Poems was the first book of poetry I purchased and was read over and over.The complete works has been with me for much time, drifted in and out of it.
As is usual with 'complete works,' when you are accustomed to the best, the lesser entries are a disappointment.
With Cummings, the material is somewhat redundant in approach; for every poem you love, there are five attempts that miss (not necessarily a negative as, in a scholarly way, the lesser works are a window into the greater).
100 poems is not enough to get the best of Cummings.
I had encountered bits and pieces of E.E. Cummings poetry, here and there, throughout the years, and generally enjoyed it.
The wordplay, unique visual arrangements, and willful flouting of some grammatical rules made for a change from the typical, formulaic poetry I was so familiar with from school.
This collection was eye-opening, in its breadth.
It turns out Cummings had written a variety of kinds of poetry, before settling on the iconic style most now associate with him.
For my own, personal collection, I think I would prefer to pick up a few slim volumes which contain my favorites.
Not that I like everything that e.e. cummings does (as I'm not typically fond of his syntactic stylistic manipulations), but some of my most favorite poems are by him - and so for that reason alone I give this collection high marks.
I saw the movie with an ex-GF at the time (way back in the late 1980s), and she was so moved by the poem that she came home with me -- before returning to her new BF the next morning.
What is so refreshing about EE Cummings is his joyful perspective on life.
While his style and form is not traditional, many of his main themes are (love, sex, life, death, childhood, the role of an individual in relation to others, the search for ones true self).Cummings is an iconoclast who rejects many traditional forms of control that limit individualism, but he does not devote his attention to an anger towards these forces.
It is Cummings' celebration of life that makes his poems so enjoyable.Try 'o sweet spontaneous earth' to get a glimpse of the wealth of beauty this poet has to offer.
"my mind isa big hunk of irrevocable nothing which touch andtaste and smell and hearing and sight keep hitting andchipping with sharp fatal toolsin an agony of sensual chisels i perform squirms ofchrome and execute strides of cobaltnevertheless ifeel that i cleverly am being altered that i slightly ambecoming something a little different, in factmyselfHereupon helpless i utter lilac shrieks and scarletbellowings."
This book was so freaking long and there were like a million poems in there but I really, really enjoyed reading them all! I didn't like all of the poems, but I liked a good deal of them, and there were 10 or 15 that really spoke to me that I particularly enjoyed (and will make sure to read over those ones again). I'm no poetry expert, and I'm new to E. E. Cummings, but I thought I'd give his poetry a try and I'm glad I did!
E.E. Cummings has the most original and creative style I've ever read. He has his own system of punctuation and grammar. It's as if he's putting his stream of consciousness directly onto the page. If anyone wants to know and enjoy American poetry, Cummings has to be included near the top of your reading list. Also, he's pretty easy to understand.His poems didn't have titles as if he was just jotting down immediate thoughts. I always go back to reading his poems and I always will.
As with all poetry this cannot be consumed in one setting and of course there were poems that stood out more than others but overall reading the lyrical (in my opinion/reading) poetry by cummings was a highly enjoyable experience.Also I had an electronic version of this so it may not be all the works but the majority for sure.
cummings is my favorite poet. Have purchased three copies of this book for friends who want to read poetry but don't know where to begin. Also worth checking out is cummings reading his own works. My friend lent me an audio cassette of cummings reading selected poems and it is equally compelling. Absolute genius.
I am continually amazed at the genius of Cummings. You know how you see more and more details when you see a movie for a second or third time? The same is true in reading and re-reading the poetry of Cummings -- with each new reading my mind sees more and more details and possibilities.
An all-time favorite
