https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54075.Dream_of_Fair_to_Middling_Women
"Dream of Fair to Middling Women" written (in 1932) by Samuel Beckett at the age of 26 was never published in his lifetime. It has a "demo tape" feel to it. It's rough and unwieldy. It was his first book and wasn't published until after he died. I will say that most of it flew over my head and some parts are quite poetic. But I would only recommend this book to true fans of Beckett.
Interestingly enough, most of Beckett's novels were originally written in French (not his native language), and subsequently translated into English later on by Beckett & sometimes an assistant.
This being his first novel, however, was originally written in English, which is a major issue primarily to the writing's aesthetic integrity.
Beckett claimed years later (after publishing his Trilogy) that writing in French forced him to be more reductive, precise, and economical with the text.
Beckett wrote this work when he was only 26 years of age, and the influence of James Joyce is (god bless Bloom) exceedingly overt, at times to the point of ventriloquism.
Did a review of this book here: https://youtu.be/nDTH13g5S3c
А это — очень молодежный роман, во всех смыслах.
Тут тебе и взросление, тут и задор юности, которую прет от того, что она открыла для себя силу и богатство слов.
А герой-рассказчик меж тем излагает нам что-то (вообще говоря - не очень интересное) о своих запутанных (да, там на всем тексте стоит тэг «всё сложно», так что нынешней молодежи все должно быть просто) отношениях с тремя бабами (вполне автобиографических), одна из которых, понятно, чудесная, хоть и ебанутая дочка Джойса (в тексте у Бекетта, я подозреваю, она чуть более ебанута, чем была в жизни) в диапазоне от изящной словесной вольтижировки до мастурбационного рэпа.
В общем, для начинающих — самое оно в виде разминки перед «Финнеганами» Джойса.
Dream of Fair to middling Women was Beckett's first novel, written in 1932, after he had published some poetry, plays and essays.
Beckett eventually told his friends he wanted the book published "some little time" after he passed away.
Critics advise us not to read Dreams without knowing French and German.
I don't know French or German, but I read it anyway because (I reasoned) it's mostly written in English.
Yes, in his early years, before his stark funny plays, Beckett loved and was influenced by Joyce.
So words that looked like typos such as the consistent use of "strom" where "storm" seems to be the context can now easily be identified as the German word for "stream" or "current".
Perhaps one day there will be an annotated edition that will explain all of those sorts of things, but in the meantime it has become much less frustrating to read.It is still frustrating though because the more you learn about things such as the Smeraldina-Rima being the code name for Beckett's youthful crush Peggy Sinclair and the Syra-Cusa being the stand-in for James Joyce's daughter Lucia Joyce the more you are left wondering who the further code-named characters such as the Polar Bear (sometimes called the PB) and the Alba are meant to be.
As a young writer, who sees a world of creativity, experimentalism and uncertainty all around him I affirm that this book is the essence of what I feel right now.
Beckett wasn't one who sure where to put his thoughts but made his effort (a grand one at that) to make collect all of it into this novel.
This novel therefore is madness, which is not for everyone.
But it is a genius type madness of language, color, humor and music.
Go read it if you want a really hard challenge, I thought it was rewarding.Going through the book I must comment, I didn't get much of it.
I would love to read this again.
The tense passional intelligence, when arithmetic abates, tunnels, skymole, surely and blindly (if we only thought so) through the interstellar coalsacks of its firmament in genesis, it twists through the stars of its creation in a network of loci that shall never be co-ordinate.
Reading Beckett is always a bit like getting into a boxing ring on Open Ticket night, where the reader must be prepared for all comers, any kind of game, blatant cheating, and all of it on the rough side.
after having barfed up a day's work in drinks...
"WTF, що це я таке прочитав?" - перше питання, яке в мене виникло після того, як індикатор прогресу читання на планшеті дійшов до 100%.
Після Годо я вирішив продовжити знайомство з Бекетом, але одного бажання, як виявилося, не зовсім достатньо.
Так, там був більш відомий твір "Мерфі", який я читаю зараз, але назва зробила своє.
Після Молоя, Малона, Годо - абсурдністю мене не здивувати.
І в цьому творі їх не було.Самому собі важко пояснити звідки в мене стільки терпіння взялося для того, аби дочитувати книжку.
Звісно, якщо ви плануєте для себе скласти більш чітке враження про творчість Бекета - то повинні хоча б спробувати читати цю книжку.
“Let it be said now without further ado, they were just pleasantly drunk.
Not so far gone as to be rapt in that disgraceful apotheosis of immediacy from which yesterday and to-morrow are banished and the off dawn into the mire of coma taken; and yet at the same time phony and contrapanic-stuck, than usual.
Pleasantly drunk.” — And so with this you see a sample of what I had to deal with, reading this book, not really understanding most of it.And Smeraldina-Rima, upon hearing big words: “What’s that?
This really has forensic and scholarly interest. It is not easy as it is somewhere between an essay and a pastiche. First novels are often like that. It is read because of what Beckett became. The reader must have a working knowledge of French and German - in fact it must have the most German of any Beckett text; along with Italian and some familiarity with the author's bio in order to interpret it.
Beckett is my favorite writer.
But, my passion for his writing is precisely because it's not simple, and because he took so many risks, so it's likely with such a daring risk taker that even his most ardent fans would find works of his that they do not enjoy, and such was the case for me with this novel.
I lost focus reading this book on nearly every page.
A must for Beckett fans but not worth reading otherwise.
Instead this heap, shapeless as the intrusive author hopes at one point--coming in, midway, to offer all of the criticisms we would have heaped here in self-defense.The author himself knows he's too clever to be beautiful, too cynical to be profound, too sad to be funny, too self-deprecating to be serious, so this novel is all and sundry, sabotaging each thing it tries to do by turns and then tells you how it did it, each literary trick hat rabbit-warrened away, like a forgetful magician talking to himself.
I much prefer Beckett's later attempts at the novel (e.g. Malloy, Malone Dies, The Unnamable), and of course his plays, both long and short.
These works simplified matters, stripped the form of the novel and the play down to an intense minimum.
Having said that I definitely see the Beckett who became famous for his sparseness and rigidity in this novel, not so much in the form, but in the content where one can sometimes pick up on classic Beckettian phrases ("making an end," "it all," etc...) and themes.

123"Мастерское исследование, ребята, от этого не уйдёшь, крупнейшей мясорубки в истории бойскаутов, одиннадцатое одиннадцатого через одиннадцать лет и ни капельки Sehnsucht между картонными крышками этой книги*".* Вероятно, автор (или Белаква) пишет (или воображает) эти строки 11 ноября 1929 г., т.е.
ровно через одиннадцать лет после подписания перемирия, положившего конец Первой мировой войне.Конгениально, количество непонятных слов и неологизмов автора (или Белаквы?) на страницу зашкаливает.
И, что характерно, вы многого в этой книге не поймёте, но пойманное останется с вами надолго."Пожалуй, единственное, что позволяет героям Беккета не покончить с собой ещё до того, как открыта первая страница книги, - это грустный смех, бесконечно далёкий от ницшеанской помпезности и сартровского самолюбования.
Then it goes. The wretched reader takes off his coat and squares up to the book, squares up to his poetry like a cocky little hop-me-thumb, hisses up his mind and pecks and picks wherever he smells a chink. And the old corduroy mode, when you switched on and put in the plug and dropped everything, let yourself go to the book, and it do the work and dephlogisticate you like a current of just the right frequency, once gone is gone for ever. 53
An early autobiographical novel from Beckett. It can be difficult at times- It might even help if you are at least familiar with French and German. It is evident that it was written fresh off Beckett's involvement in Joyce's literary circle, helping with research for Finnegans Wake- by far the most Joycean Beckett work I have read. Still a very worthwile read that gives good insight into the wild mind of a young, sardonic Beckett.
Fair to middling sounds about right. On the one hand, it's Beckett, so it's obviously got some amazing sentences and intermittent bleak hilarity. But on the other hand, I'm not sure if I'll finish it. The best bits were subsequently scavenged for More Pricks Than Kicks, and the rest of it is clearly the work of a young writer still finding his voice and way too enamored with James Joyce for his own good.
To his credit, Beckett didn't want this pastiche of allusive Joyce-esque writings published. I don't imagine that it would repay the effort required. Skipping this one and sticking with the biographer's summary.
Tedious first novel.
A bit wild and wordy for Beckett and highly indebted to A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
Young Sam trying out stuff in the immense shadow of James Joyce. Shows the promise later fulfilled.
Early Beckett, very Joycean, often funny, sometimes maddening; linguistic high spirits triumph over compulsive wordplay.
Read my review of this & other books at http://miscmss.blogspot.com/2015/04/f...
comical Beckett that proves he was a genius from a green young age
