https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/580200.A_Life_of_One_s_Own
I'm so glad I didn't get to it until now because I was fully receptive to the message and suggestions...it came at a time when it would really resonate with me.
Second, this book perfectly parallels Don Miguel Ruiz's "The Four Agreements", which I just read and am working hard to live by.
"The Four Agreements" lets you know what you need to do, "A Life of One's Own" tells you how.
Because it was the perfect "manual" for me and is helping me make some significant changes, it ranks as one of my all-time favorite books.
This book will not appeal to everyone, but for those interested in psychology or in personal journaling, it's possible this is going to be a satisfying read.
I came across mention of this book in both Tristine Rainer's and Kathleen Adams' books on journaling.Marion Milner, writing in 1934 under the name Joanna Field, had decided as a young woman of 26 to explore what would make her happy.
She wanted to explore a way of developing as a person that would be available to anyone, without the need to consult a psychologist or study psychology.I found the result of her journey fascinating and somewhat enlightening, but then as mentioned above, it fits my interests well.
The book seems so deep like one of those studies in psychoanalysis.
For some reason I feel that Jung would have made excellent use of her book as a case study in consciousness, unconsciousness, and psychoanalysis.
The book is deep; it can be read over and over again, and to probe into the depth of human soul.
In some charming way, she used her autobiography as a work of psychology and it all flows naturally.
Did she mean to incorporate psychology in her autobiography?
Even if she did, you don't feel you are reading a deep work of psychology.
Outstanding! An engaging record of self-discovery through the author's exploration of her own thought processes, begins by asking questions about what would make her happy. Notion of "blind thinking," efforts to pay attention and train one's thoughts, extension of understanding to appreciation and personal relationships. Body awareness through breathing exercises and relaxation informs the journey. Appropriately Auden described it as a "detective story." One I didn't want to end.
One of the most fascinating things that I pulled from reading "A Life of One's Own" was that her conclusions about certain mindsets and behaviors seem to draw upon eastern ways of thinking...a LOT.
Since I've been reading a lot about Buddhism and psychology lately this was especially apparent.
The conclusions Milner draws while exploring her own psyche so mirrored my own experience with personal growth and exploration that sometimes it was almost hard to believe.
If you've ever embarked on a journey of personal growth, experienced psychotherapy, or considered one or both of these things I think you'll really enjoy this book.
The author, recognizing in 1926 at the age of 26 that she was not happy despite living the life she wanted to live - fulfilling work, friends and leisure - and set out to discover how she could be happy by keeping a diary for seven years of events and times during which she had been happiest.
At the age of 34 she wrote this book, the result of her experiment, efforts and unexpected revelations.
She went on to move from industrial psychology to become a psychoanalyst and to write other books throughout her 98 year life.
A Life of One's Own is extraordinary, as was its author.
Really interesting. If you are wondering about life or about yourself, this is certainly a pleasant and interesting exploration. It's personal and idiosyncratic but easy to read and thought provoking.
Quite simply one of the most thought=provoking, erudite and uplifting books I have ever read.
çok şey öğreten bir kitap. arada durup "hiçbir şey istemiyorum" demenin huzurunu öğrendim mesela. ..
I started and never finished this book several times but I still always think about it.
Psikanalizin dogus yillarinda yazilan bu kitap bence cok degerli. Freud etkisi fazla ama yine de yol gosterici ve guzel.
I always seemed to be looking for something, always a little distracted because there was something more important to be attended to just ahead of the moment.""I had felt my life to be of a dull dead-level mediocrity, with the sense of real and vital things going on round the corner, out in the streets, in other people’s lives.
For I had taken the surface ripples for all there was, when actually happenings of vital importance to me had been going on, not somewhere away from me, but just underneath the calm surface of my own mind.
A Life Of One's Own is one woman's examination and recording of her own thoughts, daydreams and inclinations over several years and how observing these things pointed her to who she really is and what makes her happy.WHO WOULD ENJOY READING IT?Anyone with interested in how human minds work and our popular opinions influence us would be interested in the author's findings.WHAT I LOVE ABOUT ITI love the tone of unashamedness in this one.
The frankness and scientific approach of the author towards her own private daydreams is something to be admired.
I just reread this book, by Joanna Field, a pseudonym for Marion Milner, a famous psychoanalyst. I can relate to her interest in coping with the "chattering mind" , and it's a really interesting self-exploration.
I knew that it was a self book about a woman's 7 years' experiences around the things making her happy but everything was so dull for me. So did not quite like but it was ok.
""The secret of lack of concentration seems to me to be fear, guilt, a continual running away, escaping, hiding - a sense that what one is doing at the moment won't save one, but something else is better - always the thing you are not doing is going to be the only thing""Slowly I realized that the facts were not separate things which were there for anyone to pick up, but an ever-changing pattern against a boundless background of the unknown, an immense kaleidoscope changing constantly according to the different ways you looked at it.
Marion Milner, alışılagelmiş bir kişisel gelişim ya da psikoloji kitabı yazmak yerine kendi içdünyasında yedi yıl boyunca yaptığı "deneyler" doğrultusunda hem özgüven hem barışıklık hem de mutluluk üstüne çözüm yolları bulmaya çalışıyor.Yine de yazarın dediği gibi bu kitap, okuyucuya nihai bir çözüm sunmaktan ziyade okuyucuya, kendi deneyimlerinden yola çıkarak içini dökmeyi amaçlıyor.
Very interesting a self-test of type of living..
If Buddha had been born in early 20th century England her name would have been Marion Milner.
Frustrated that the search for a real life doesn't seem to be attainable.
I loved the ideas behind the book and it sparked my intellect and considerations about what makes me happy/what happiness looks like and feels like.
There are times when one must be in a certain state of mind to fully grasp and appreciate the depth and quality of an author's words.
This was not the time in my life to read this book and appreciate its beauty.That being said, there were a few key passages in the beginning that truly resonated with me.p. 25 "...for although I knew there were plenty who wanted to tell me I should direct my life I could not be sure that what might be right for them would also be right for me."p.
This is one of the most introspective books I've ever read, though painstaking at times, but Marion Milner's insights into her own life and mind rae profound.
Marion Milner writes this wholly from her own life experience, trying to answer the questions, 'what do I want from my life?' 'what will make me happy?' She journals over the course of years to answer these questions and arrives at some conclusions by trial and error.
I love the confidence she brings to this experiment, trusting her own experience and insights to arrive at certain conclusions about happiness for her.

The (Really) Examined LifeMarion Milner gets right to the heart of the question that bugs us most, whether we admit it or not: What really makes me happy? By keeping a diary and reflecting honestly on her experiences, she unearthed simple, profound, and often surprising facts about her own happiness and what was required to achieve it. I doubt she ever met a Zen monk, but if she had, I would have loved to be there for the conversation.
It was a difficult book for me to get into at first. I would keep putting it down and picking it up, I was determined to finish it! The diary like entries and writing were not my cup of tea. I did warm to the concept and the book did provoke me to think about the concepts and taking the time to reflect.
Insightful self-ananysis post-Freud and a precursor to Gift From The Sea (Anne Morrow Lindbergh) and Simple Abundance (Sarah Ban Breathnach).
Mutlululuk üzerine mutsuzluk! #mutluluk #happy #happiness
Reread from when I was in my mid-30's and thoroughly enjoyed again. I see it as akin to Buddhism where it's all about watching your own mind and her self-discovery of those principles.
Got 60 pages into it and it was terribly dull. It wasn't as interesting as I'd hoped it would be.
