https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74824.The_Alexandria_Link
Reading this book I felt a ton of conflicting thoughts and emotions.
There were many things I really enjoyed about it, but there was also one large issue that really roiled my blood and is preventing me from giving this book anything higher than 2 stars.
The big idea of this book is the search for the lost Library of Alexandria, which is a wonderful story idea.
I will be taking a break from Steve Berry for awhile and will make a decision in the future if I want to read anything more by him.
Read my full review at Tales Between the PagesI'm starting to think that Steve Berry is a megalomaniac.
However, what I realized about half way into the book is that it's just another one of Berry's attempts to destabilize religion.
I normally wouldn't have a problem with this, but THREE out of the five books that I've read has tried to destabilize religion in some way, shape, or form.
We know that," a bit too much with his books...So what did I like, you ask?
But, if you've read a lot of these "religion has secrets" novels like I have, you'll find The Alexandria Link formulaic and pretty unremarkable.
Clearly I'm a sucker for anything involving libraries and books. Not quite as engaging as the previous book, but this feels like it's going to be a middle-of-the-road or guilty pleasure kind of series (which I'm fine with, as long as I remember not to take anything too seriously). A few issues with some of the characters but overall decently enjoyable.
The Alexandria Link is the 2nd book in the Cotton Malone series.
After uncovering The Templar Legacy, Cotton - along with his friends Henrik and Stephanie, as well as his ex-wife Pam and son Gary – is on the hunt for the lost Library of Alexandria.
It is Cotton’s knowledge of an event 5 years ago that the kidnappers are after and are willing to do whatever they have to in order to get it from Cotton.I rated the 1st book in the series, The Templar Legacy, 3.75 stars.
He also states that there is not archeaological evidence that Isreal is really where any of the bible took place.He seems to forget all about the Dead Sea Scrolls (which contain parts of every Old Testament book but Esther), Hadrian's wall, the tunnels and wells beneath Jerusalem, and everything else that is chronicled nicely in Biblical Archeaology Review in every issue.Berry is a great story teller and needs to stick to the story and stop trying to tear down religion.
In this book, he goes after Christians, Jews, and Moslems with great fury (Jews being his greatest target).
4.5 Stars. This is a cracking good read. A good mixture of code breaking, a hunt for the Library of Alexandria, historical backdrop of the Old Testament and Middle East rivalries, as well as good interaction of the characters. If anything I think I enjoyed this more than the first one in the series. Will definitely be continuing in the series.
I read this book expecting it to be poorly executed and I was still pretty disappointed.
The plot starts pretty well, drags on a bit in the middle and ends very poorly.The characters are mere caricatures; heavy-handed, hardly developed and with some of the poorest name choices imaginable.
By the final 1/4 of the book I was sick to death of reading all those dumb names.Berry also treads on many hot topics in this story with all the grace of a giant bear.
Rather than focus on one or two topics solidly he merely sketches each.
I found the concept of the Old Testament being mistranslated from it's original Hebrew and all the problems this would cause in the world between the Muslims, Christians and Jews very interesting and it made for a great story.
I loved how Steve Berry weaved in real places, and historical events with his fictional story.
I found the Characters in the story quite likable as well.
My brain was spinning a bit by the end trying to figure out who was double crossing who within the American Government though, but I enjoyed every minute.
لغز الإسكندرية مكتبة الإسكندرية – لازالت موجودة بعض كل هذه القرون -، وحقيقة أرض الميعاد اليهودية، مع حزمة من الإنفجارات والمطاردات والجماعات السرية والقتلة والمخابرات الأمريكية والرئيس الأمريكي فوق هذا كله، خليط لا يسهل ابتلاعه، شعرت بافتقاد لقدرات دان براون - في رواياته الأولى على الأقل – وأنا اقرأ هذه الرواية التي كان طموحها عالياً، وحاولت التعرض لموضوع حساس ولكنها سقطت في سلسلة من الكليشيهات المملة.
Reading this book is like reading a graphic novel that has no art.
Chapters generally three pages long.
Just like in the movies!
Except that without the special effects and scenery, the terrible dialogue and convoluted plot seem all the more ridiculous.I'm on page 205, and I think I'm going to stop now.
There's an unintentional laugh on every page!
Thank God only one man knew he was alive, and he trust that person implicitly."Dialogue from chapter 11: "What are we doing?" Pam asked."The only thing we can do.""Why don't you just give them what they want?""It's not that simple.""Sure it is."He kept his gaze ahead.
The Alexandria Link has much in common with Dan Brown's DaVinci Code, and that is not meant as a negative criticism.
In both the protagonists are pursued by ruthless villains intent on stopping them before they reach the goal.
The pace is non-stop in each book, and there are sufficient twists and turns to keep the reader attentive to the story flow.
A refreshing new twist in the Link is to portray the goal as something to alter world politics, not the pious sentiments of a portion of one religion as in the Code.
Another very enjoyable read in the Cotton Malone series. Lots of twists and turns that kept my attention all the way to the end. Recommend to all Thriller readers! I am looking forward to reading the next book in the series.
Na tai ką galiu pasakyti, gerai, kad nepradėjau nuo pirmos turbūt, nes apie Aleksdandrijos biblioteką taip ir nebūčiau nieko sužinojus, nes nu ir antros buvo per akis.
Akivaizdu, kad ir autorius to norėjo, bet jam tai labai nesigavo.
Visas tos knygos veiksmas sukasi apie tai, kad Aleksandrijos bibliotekoje galima rasti vieną pirmųjų „senąja hebrajų“ kalba prašytą Bibliją, kuri parodytų kiek dabartinė intenciškai ar ne yra nukrypusi nuo originalo ir sukeltų daug šaršalo visose trijose didžiosiose religijose.
Jeigu pradžioje dar yra kažkokia logika, kodėl dalykai vyksta, tai galiausiai supranti, kad ten absoliutus pilstymas iš tuščio į kiaurą, sukuriant dirbtines intrigas dirbtinėse intrigose, kurioms kurti net ir nėra jokio tikslo.
This is the second book in the Cotton Malone Series by Steve Berry.I have to say I enjoyed this book as much as the first.
I wasn't so gone on the character of Pam Malone, Cotton's ex-wife, but the dis-like of her was set for me in the first book but by the end of this second book I did like her.
I'm looking forward to reading the next in the series.But what I enjoyed most about the book was it was a piece of fiction set in real places and based on controversial and well argued material.
The first two books in this series do not have much character development, but there is lots of fast-paced action.
All that was enough to keep me reading, but what I enjoy most about these books is the amount of research this author has done.
He obviously did a lot of traveling, across the globe, as he investigated how the Old Testament was written, explored the existence now or in the past, of various documents that expose inconsistencies, and efforts to change certain segments, for political or religious reasons.
All in all, an enjoyable read.
I'm a fan of Alexandrian history, and also of spy novels. So you'd think I'd love this.But when this author (speaking through a character) brags that the Iraq war will bring stable democracy to the Middle East, I stopped reading.Gerald. Boychik Lit
This took me a while to get through, partly because I actually have to work and spend time with my family (
Very well written as usual. This author really has a knack for keeping the reader hooked on the story.
Mind you, it's just the latest in an apparant series of book following Cotton Malone's adventures.
Perhaps that's why I never really got all that involved in the book was because I had never really gotten to know the characters and there were just so many that I was expected to.Even so, with the plot jumping to three different places and three seperate storylines (for the most part until they join together at the end) I was just pulled in too many directions.
I'm sure for those following the adventures of Cotton Malone the book will be so much more worthwhile.
But for those of you who plan on making the mistake I made and thinking this book would mainly address the lost library, you're wrong.
Back in Washington DC, colleagues of Malone's are facing their own threats, many which seem to be coming from America's highest political offices.Mixed into the search for the Library is a theory that involves whether the accepted translations of the Old and New Testaments are correct.
If this theory can be proven it could upset the current world order and disrupt the global balance of power.The author incorporates fascinating tidbits of history to create stories that are well-constructed page-turners.
It was difficult to put the book down once I got involved in the story.
The story was promising and in fairness to the author,this book was a result of a lot of research, creativity, imagination, and effort.
The complex plots and subplots in the story are tangled in a mess, no one is whom they seem, but some characters got the chance to develop, with a little background here and there.
This story is comparable to the first Steve Berry novel I read "The Romanov Prophecy", both had promising storylines, history etched in the backgrounds, but the way they were written wasn't really enthralling.
I did find the book compelling when it was close to the end.
A escrita de Steve Berry é dinâmica, com muita acção e suspense logo no início.A acção decorre em diversos países, Dinamarca, Áustria, Estados Unidos da América, Inglaterra, Alemanha, Portugal, Península do Sinai.
Em cada capítulo mudamos de local e é assim o livro todo, o que se torna um pouco cansativo.
Há demasiadas personagens, enredos, teorias da conspiração e a certa altura deixei de me interessar sobre algumas dessas histórias.Fiquei bastante surpresa por parte da acção se passar em Lisboa nomeadamente no Mosteiro dos Jerónimos mas acho que as referências ao Mosteiro dos Jerónimos poderiam ser um pouco mais aprofundadas principalmente por se tratar de Património Mundial.
Original rating- 1.75/5Having read The Templar Legacy, I wasn't expecting much from this book and I was right in doing so.
The book is a jumble of random things, that in the end makes no or little sense.Again, this book lacks in theological evidences just like The Templar Legacy.
I don't know what else to write because I am still dazed by the strange events of the story.
Hard to put down.The story is about a the lost Library of Alexandria, a library that contained all the books from antiquity to the first three or four centuries (A.D.).
The library was said to have been destroyed about that time.
However, in this book the library was secreted away by monks who are now the guardians.
Only certain people such as learned scholars are 'invited' to see the library by the 'guardians' of the library.
The catch is that many international governments (U.S, Israel, and Pakistan) want the link to be destroyed and a multinational circle of wealthy business executives want access to it to boost economic wealth for their corporations.
Menarik. Bagaimana Steve Berry merangkai detil-detil fakta dan fiksi, dengan alur yang tidak biasa namun baik. Overall emang bahasanyacukup berat. Kadang ada kalimat yg harus saya baca ulang biar paham, tapi ada juga yg saya skip. Ceritanya agak kontroversial memang, tapi plis deh ini novel Sci-Fi. Nggak usah terlalu serius, anggap aja sebuah karya sastra. Bagaimanapun juga intrik dalam ceritanya memang menarik untuk disimak. Overall buku ini seru, Sangat seru.
Само да кажам дека и овојпат Стив Бери не ме разочара!Интересно, интригантно и возбудливо!
Dimulai dgn penculikan putranya, Gary, membuat Malone dan Pam (ex istrinya) hrs berpetualang ke London-Portugal-Gurun Sinai.
Stephanie dan temannya, Cassiopeia, juga dibuat jungkir balik utk mengetahui siapakah dalang dibalik semua intrik ini.
Dan utk menambah kerumitan cerita, Gary yg dititipkan kpd Thorvaldsen (sahabat karib Malone) juga berjibaku dlm Perkumpulan Bulu Domba Emas yg punya kepentingan tersendiri utk pencarian perpustakaan Alexandria tsb.Buku ini dari awal hingga akhir cerita menyuguhkan full suspense yg tidak kikir dgn adegan penembakan, peledakkan, pembunuhan dsb.
Selain itu deskripsi tempat-tempat bersejarah juga lumayan memukau seperti Biara Belem di Portugal serta "Perpustakaan Alexandria" di Gurun Sinai.
I forced myself to get through the first novel in this series even though it was denigrating to Jesus and the Gospels because I wanted to get a good feel for the character and writing.
However, this novel follows that by denigrating the Old Testament as well, with an academician calling it a “haphazard translation”.
The Bible is sacred to me and I’m offended at an author using it as the center of a conspiracy, calling it false.
I’ve read other books in the series that focus on US presidents and conspiracies they created.
Intertwine the writings of St. Augustine and St. Jerome; add some nefarious characters that would stand to enhance their power and monetary profit, and sprinkle in American politics and you have the basic premise of Steve Berry’s novel, THE ALEXANDRIA LINK.The book is part of Berry’s series featuring Cotton Malone, a retired member of the U.S. Justice Department’s elite Magellan Billet who lives in Copenhagen and operates a bookstore.
3.5..........It may have been because I listened to this one instead of actually reading it like the first Cotton Malone, but I just didn't like this as much as the first one. That's okay though, I still like Cotton and want to move on with this series. :)
