https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15803037-red-sparrow
Dominika is a training to be a Red Sparrow, a Russian female seductress agent, and she also has the gift of synthesia, or seeing colors in an aura around people that reflects their spirit, a mood ring sort of thing.
Dominika has a lesbian sex encounter at Sparrow School and here's a recipe for a Cuban Sandwich from the airport.
And the women have sex like blow-up dolls.
I even went back to the reviews thinking, oh, I bet women readers did not go for this, but they did.
I could find no glaring trends to support my own conclusions.
A recipie for Red Sparrow- 1 cup of Cold War- 2 tablespoons of espionage- 5 cubes of chopped suspense- In a sauce pan in simmer a handful of double agents and several pinches of government secrets.
After 15 minutes, slowly stir in the Cold War, espionage, and suspense.- After it thickens, pour in to a baking dish, sprinkle traitorous crumbs over the top and bake for 1 hour.
It is not an action packed spy thriller.
If you love spy thrillers, cold war drama, and anything else of that ilk, this is definitely the book for you!

Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestDNF @ 72% When I saw the trailer for Red Sparrow (2018), I almost guffawed because as I watched, I could almost hear T.T.L.'s "Deep Shadow" playing in the background - it looked just like another Hunger Games trailer if the Capitol got a major downgrade and President Snow became Evol Russian Jeremy Irons. Still, I was intrigued because the idea of a "Memoirs of a Geisha"-esque rags-to-riches spy romance with sex, scandal, and espionage call
Her creepy spymasters keep pressuring her to sleep with him (as they do with all her other targets, because that's all she's good for), but oh no, she gets kind of close to Nate and for some reason decides to out herself and defect, and then she and Nate are in love and fighting against the evol Russian spiez, dun dun dun.That's about the time that I stopped reading.The plot literally sounds like a bodice ripper and since I like bodice rippers you would think that I'd be all over RED SPARROW like white on rice but I couldn't get over Dominika's utter lack of agency and the way she's objectified by every man in the book, or the fact that Nate kind of feels like a self-insert of the author (and even kind of sounds like a younger version of him based on that author photo I saw on Goodreads).
After Nate and Dominika meet, a delicate dance of manipulation begins, but who is recruiting who?I’m a big fan of FX’s The Americans as well as currently being surrounded by a bunch of Russian consultants at the office.
I’m convinced they must be secret agents running honeypot operations because there’s just no way that many good looking people are a representative sample of the Russian population.
(Or I’m just jealous that they’re making us American office drones look like jeans wearing mole-people by comparison.
Dominika Ergova is a synesthete who has had her career as a ballerina trashed, and thanks to the machinations (and exploitation) by her uncle ends up as a struggling state intelligence officer pushed into becoming a trained sparrow, a spy who seduces.Nathanial 'Nate' Nash is a CIA operative and handler of a major Russian asset, MARBLE, when everything goes wrong.
Nate and Dominika end up having a sexual affair which seems to have little future.
This is a story of sex, betrayal, deception, double dealing, and a myriad of twists as the American and Russian spy agencies, erstwhile enemies, go up against each other in their efforts to find the moles in their own sides.
Pulled into the Russian Intelligence sphere by an uncle who works as a senior official within the SVR (the KGB’s modern-day cousin), Egorova is targeted for a high-stakes game to retrieve the needed information from Nash.
Instead, Nash sees a potential to turn Egorova to the Americans and have her feed additional information to the CIA.
Forced back to Russia, Egorova is presumed ‘handled’ in some dank prison, while Nash returns stateside with some valuable information; there is a Russian mole within the American intelligence community that could compromise everything.
FLANAGAN Sono d’accordo con il critico del NYT Charles Cumming: inserire Putin tra i personaggi di questo romanzo è un errore, in qualche modo ne mina la credibilità – come lo sono le ricette gastronomiche a chiusura di ogni capitolo, meno l’ultimo, sia perché smontano la suspense sia perché la ricetta più leggera è pari a diecimila calorie.
Il che la dice lunga sulle capacità di Jason Matthews.Ne faranno un film e sono certo che sarà migliore del romanzo, anche se non c’è più Fincher a dirigerlo e chi ha preso il suo posto a Fincher non è paragonabile: ma il cast è buono.
Sometimes you get a book very rich in words which tells a rich story, this was not the case, it gave me the impression of the author's infatuation with his capacity to link words in sentences, then in paragraphs, pages, chapters and so on.And the russian!
Words in russian in every page, all the time, for everything, so exhausting.
So the author speaks russian then, and wanted to give us some ambiance, not for me you didn't.The story is common, there is absolutely nothing to make it stand out from any other glamourous spy story, far fetched, slow, repetitive, boring, wordy.....next!
Good times.While it seems like those old Cold War threats and anxieties are in the past, lost to the annals of history and diminished by Soviet collapse, I would venture that there remain a fair number of Russian politicians who think otherwise.
Reading about spy games as they are unfolding in this century is definitely thrilling, though at times because it requires so much description it's easy to become mired in the details.
Couldn't she just be kick-ass, full stop, with a really well-tuned social and emotional intelligence to read people, rather than something that's almost paranormal/supernatural?
The first third of this trilogy has a few good plots and assorted misses. The end of this first trill is wanting....as in wanting to be better. 6 of 10 stars
"Her name was Dominika Egorova. She was a ballerina, an officer in the SVR, a Sparrow trained to bend others’ minds. She loved and was loved in return."   I rarely read spy thrillers, but when I heard Jennifer Lawrence was cast for the film adaptation of Red Sparrow, I put it on my TBR list asap. At first, I almost didn't finish this book. Like I said, I don't typically read this genre and I didn't find myself easily engaged in the writing style. It felt very dry third-person. However, the man
She was a ballerina, an officer in the SVR, a Sparrow trained to bend others’ minds.
I rarely read spy thrillers, but when I heard Jennifer Lawrence was cast for the film adaptation of Red Sparrow, I put it on my TBR list asap.
Like I said, I don't typically read this genre and I didn't find myself easily engaged in the writing style.
Jennifer Lawrence will be kickass in the role of Dominika and I'm excited to see how this plays out on the screen.My favorite quote:“The long and short of it, Nate,” said Gable later in his office, “is shut the fuck up.
If you find yourself missing the cloak-and-dagger world of the Cold War - somewhere between the time when spy thrillers stopped being all about the gadgets and started being all about gritty, action-packed reboots - then this is a book you will certainly appreciate.
Jason Matthews quickly establishes the players, the stage, and the stakes, drawing us in and holding us close throughout.Nathaniel (Nate) is a great character, a charismatic lead who manages to retain the sense of being familiar and down-to-earth, while also demonstrating a propensity for quick action and bold heroics.
I don't care if the plot eventually improved; the writing is terrible.
He even describes an airport terminal as containing shops and restaurants.
Why waste words on describing an airport?
I don't need to be told they have shops.Second, he's using omniscient POV, which is not a good choice for a first-time author.
And that's exactly what the reader gets--sometimes he jumps back and forth between two characters' POVs on the same page.There is also a lot of needless description of cuisine--probably so he can include a recipe at the end of each chapter.
But to be totally candid with you, I feel like that drama was there in this book but it was taken away from by endless "intelligence" talk.
I know this is a story of espionage and how the agencies go about their business, and on the surface it probably does that very well.
But for the average reader that cared more about the drama than the inner workings of government intelligence, it just didn't resonate with me.
I'm gonna have to go with probably not on this one unless you're looking to read it before seeing the movie or you're really, really into how government spying works.WEBSITE | TWITTER | FACEBOOK | INSTAGRAM
Joining Graham Greene*, Somerset Maugham*, Ian Fleming, John le Carré*, James Church, (and maybe -- if my suspicions are correct -- Robert Littell and Olen Steinhauer too), Jason Matthews shows most interesting spy fiction is actually written by former spies/intelligence officers.
When the novel gets away from acrobatic sex and ethnic food and instead sticks with spy craft, agent development, mole detection, etc., it actually holds up well.It isn't exactly spy literature, but it is a fun and diversionary summer read that mixes a low brow Bond (sexy vixens and almost absurdly wicked villains) with more high brow Smiley (complexity of motivations and opacity of belief).
This mixture could have almost sunk the novel, but Matthews nearly pulls it off.* NOT close to their level of writing.
The best thing is its sheer authenticity and 'grounded-ness' of the day to day clandestine operations similar to the way the Pike Logan books feel authentic in their action due to Brad Thor's background.
While I am no spy (or am I?) or spec ops warrior (maybe?) and cannot obviously vouch for the authenticity, Jason Matthews and Brad Thor communicate this feeling of realism that other authors in the genre, who have not been in the field, cannot communicate.Anyway, barring this and the usual ‘who can you trust’ and ‘who is working for whom’ plots, this book does not have anything else going for it.
The Sparrow of the title.Dimitri Ustinov: Gangster oligarchSergey Matorin: SVR staff officer with the rank of major V Putin: toxic narcissistCIA Chief of Station: Gordon GordoffNPPD - spy pollen (who knew!)HELSINKI(where The Game begins)Tom Forsyth, Chief of Station Marty Gable- deputyTarik - turkish hash house ownerJaana and Marcus Räikkönen (ARCHIE and VERONICA)Maxim Volontov, SVR rezident in the Russian EmbassyMarta YelenovaOLD LADY’S BEET SOUP: Melt butter in a large pot; add a chopped onion and sauté until translucent; stir in three grated beets and one chopped tomato.
Add purée to ground lamb, chopped onion, garlic and parsley, finely cubed butter, coriander, cumin, paprika, olive oil, salt, and pepper.
Blend in Dijon mustard, splash of heavy cream; reheat and serve.SPANISH EMBASSY TORTILLA ESPAÑOLACook seasoned, medium-sliced potatoes and chopped onions in abundant olive oil until soft, then remove and drain.
If you love books about spycraft and CIA work, you will appreciate the complexity and detail of Jason Matthews’ RED SPARROW, which is told from the pov of Dominica, a Russian girl who is trained as a “sparrow” or Russian intelligence officer who will spy and run honey pot operations, seducing her targets and gathering information, and Nate, a CIA officer who had been in Moscow managing informants until one day he is nearly caught and his cover is blown.
This is just a really cool book, especially if you ever loved the TV show “The Americans” and questions of real or not real.
And I just loved Dominica and Nate!
Dominika works out a way to get enough leverage to start a career involving the higher skills of “turning” useful people and stealing secrets.
Her assignment is to get close to the CIA agent serving as the handler for a mole somewhere high in the Russian intelligence hierarchy.
Ironically, this other hero of our tale, Nathaniel, ends up getting assigned to turn Dominika as a path to find a Russian mole serving in critical weapons development program in the U.S. We get a lot of cat and mouse scenarios on both sides until we almost get dizzy figuring out who is the predator and who is the prey.
I'm going to give this a four for pure entertainment.Spy novels, thrillers, or books for teens/young adults are reads where my ratings should not be compared with my reactions to more serious literary works...it is like comparing apples with oranges, filet mignon with chocolate.I confess that the primary reason I read this was because of the new movie release and that it was available as a free audio from the library.
Very random but kind of cute too.There are multiple roles for strong females in the story, and that makes The Red Sparrow a nice departure from the old school espionage novels.
Captivating spy novel with some romance mixed in. I highly recommend. I can't wait to read the Palace of Treason.
Then he told me it was very, very good.Whether or not we watch movie remains to be seen (pun intended), but I knew I wanted to read the book first.
It's one of the best spy thrillers I've read in a very long time.At first blush, the story seemed reminiscent of the TV show "The Americans" starring Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys; spies and counterspies, each trying to recruit others while remaining "black" (i.e., undetected and unidentified).
Needless to say, Nate and Dominika are brought together to serve cross purposes; he to recruit her, she to recruit him.
I really wanted to like this book, since I feel like I've exhausted all the great espionage and this was getting a lot of buzz because the author is former CIA.
The initial 100 page of setup was a struggle because virtually every paragraph about the heroine mentions how sexy she is.
Why can't she just be a really sharp person with great instincts?Once the Russian heroine is a trained sexy spy and is in the same city as her American counterpart I expected things to settle in and get more interesting, which they did for a few chapters.
It's quite a spy tale saga.
It's a full 3.5 star for the character carving and the world setting which, IMHO, is authentic.
All in their politburo are still "old buddies" as well.The problem was I just couldn't enjoy the length and the detail.
Human lives lived without a shred of authenticity.There are very few spy tale novels of fiction that approach 3 stars any longer (post 2005 or so).
This one is above average although for length and for crude and nasty- just too low for me.And somehow the form of putting all these recipes at the end of each chapter?
4 1/2 Stars -- Definitely Worth Reading But You'll Need To Be Patient With ItI received an ARC of this book from Net Galley and the publisher in return for an honest review, which follows.I am an avid reader of thrillers and am particularly of espionage thrillers.
Jason Matthews, the author of this book, is a former CIA officer, and unfortunately, he can't keep his bias in check.
Matthews seems to know the intricate workings of spycraft, I'll give him that, but other than that, there's nothing else in this book which has not been done hundreds of time before this book and with much better results.
The plot meanders along, never gets exciting, not limited to but also due to the fact that Matthews tries to cram everything he knows about the CIA in the book.This could have been a much better book.
This book was a very hard read for me.
I liked the story and I liked the two main characters but there was so much information in the book, it took me forever to get through it.
The basic story was very good and I do want to see the movie and would read the second installment of the story, hoping that the author would not have to put so much information in the other books since you have the background.
There were even recipes at the end of every chapter!
That could be good or bad!
They were very interesting also.
I found too much of this book to be trite and stereotypical, from the dark, menacing, unattractive Russians to the fatherly, dignified, handsome Americans.
And too many Russian phrases dropped through the narrative, as if that would make it more authentic.
Russian Sparrow Dominique is endowed with some special power that allows her to intuit people by the colors of their "halo".
And what is with the so called "recipes" at the end of each chapter?
I found this book to be tedious and unfulfilling, but forced myself to stay with it until the end.
To make it more interesting, one is a beautiful Russian spy who is very capable.
Her uncle was a high-ranking spy, and when she wanted to become a spy, he trained her to be a sort of honey-trap, which they call a Sparrow; since she's Russian, she's a Red Sparrow.
But she was able to move beyond this role into a full-fledged spy, with special capabilities that made her a super-star.The author is a retired CIA officer, so I guess he knows a bit about the field, which makes this more interesting, since I assume it's all feasible if not happening.
