https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/459828.The_Survivor
Also made into a film. Read this as a teen and I think I had better read it again as I can't remember much about it.🐯👍
Squinting to read the first chapter in a lawn chair in the dazzling sunlight I had no idea I had just started the best 80's horror I read in ages - and a book that would salvage my bruised and battered relationship with Herbert that never even had a chance before on account of my reading the abysmally bad Once...
His struggle to understand and remember is soon fueled by the fact that strange and horrible things are happening in Eton and they soon seem to be connected to the crash.I liked the characters in this one and loved the locales, but the best part is that the horror in this one really works, as it it is chilling and never cheesy and that makes this one stick out quite a lot.
So what was shocking and horrific then, has now lost some of its impact- not because we have become so desensitised to it (an often cited criticism of horror) but more the world has come to reflect the events in the story - least the non-supernatural parts of it at least.Okay pondering about air disasters as a horror vehicle (no pun intended) aside the story rips along at a reasonable pace and you can see why it was itself optioned for a film (which I only got to see some years later and which does not really reflect the book at all, more stole the good points and ran off before the rest of the story could catch up).Anyway if you like stories of revenge and redemption then this is a great place to start and really from here you can see why James Herbert was being set as the British answer to Stephen King and I guess set the scene for the arrival of what some refer to as the "splatter punk" horror - but that is a conversation for another day.
Read this many years ago when it was first published and it remains my favourite of his books.Excellent story, extremely gory and with an outstanding ending!
My fourth Herbert read, after THE RATS, THE FOG and OTHERS.
This is the weakest yet and despite an intriguing Australian film adaptation with Robert Powell it's a pretty uninspiring and familiar story.This slim novel begins with an impressive plane crash and loses momentum from there.
A slow storyline involving the gradually returning memories of the sole survivor marks for familiar reading material, and each section is interspersed with ghost/horror sequences - seemingly random at first - of the kind we're familiar with from the likes of THE FOG.
However, as a whole the novel just doesn't hold together making this one of his worst efforts.
I first heard of James Herbert when given the novel, Ghosts of Sleath, which I thoroughly enjoyed.
I have read another book by him as well but can't for the life of me remember what!
This, however, is the first I've read getting back in to horrors.I don't have much to say about it to be honest.
It's a rather mediocre story with plain, uninteresting characters and a guessable end.
Sorta reminded me of a more Supernatural Final Destination in some aspects.
Structurally well written which makes up for a simple story.
This is by far the weakest James Herbert book that I've read. The premise for the story is a promising one, but it's poorly executed and somewhat muddled and confusing. Deceased aircraft passengers become killers for reasons that are not entirely convincing or properly explained, and the same applies to much of the story. Weak, cardboard characters and dialogue, and a very bizarre climax to the story that left me hugely disappointed.James Herbert was a much better author than this.
A five star chiller from the master of the genre James Herbert. After a plane crash, the angry ghosts of the passagers haunt the nearby town. The only survivor of the crash might be the only one, who can put then to rest. Scary, creepy and in the end, surprisingly touching.You can read more detailed review in Bulgarian here:http://citadelata.com/the-survivor/
Typical Herbert fun, you get the main story set up followed by the odd scenes of fun and scary parts mostly with side characters. Then the culmination and final twist (it was a pretty decent, if overused, twist in this book). And like the first Final Destination movie....it may make you think twice about air travel...yikes😬
Good story but very gruesome as James Herbert books are.
The graphic descriptions of the scene following the accident and the aftermath in the town where this took place have the reader on the edge of their seat, not recommended for anyone planning to fly very soon!
There are elements of the supernatural, the introduction of a clairvoyant, Hobbs, who seeks Keller out, and the details of the horror following the accident, where various local people suffer,This is well worth a read, but rather nightmare inducing for the susceptible.
Very sad, as well as traumatic, in places, but an excellent read.
Recommended for an exciting read.
Very short (fast readers could finish this in hours) but Very chilling. This was the first Herbert book i ever read and was a fantastic introduction to the man.The use of religion adds to the power of the evil force that is lurking and Herberts use of language makes for some suitably cold and atmospheric scenes and settings, some of which have stayed with me long since i read this years ago.overall, great creepy short story.
It's James Herbert but not as I know him - all the ingredients are here for a classic slice of pulpy hokum, but ol' James neglects the horror in a big way. There's a ludicrous mystery that reminds me of the original Friday the 13th in how it cheats the audience, and not a lot of exciting incident. It feels like Herbert trying to go mainstream, pulling back from the sex and violence of his earlier books, but giving us nothing to replace them.
I first read this book 37 years ago. I had never been much of a reader but from the first chapter of this book I was completely gripped. I carried this book with me and at every opportunity I took it out and read another chapter. I had never before been so captivated and it was this book that lead me to reading more books in this genre and by this author. Brilliant read.
A well written story about the sole survivor of a plane crash that is genuinely creepy and chilling. Definitely one to read with the lights onI read this book several years ago and still remember the hairs standing up on the back of my neck in several places. Herbert can make even the commonplace seem strange, mysterious and downright scary.
The sole survivor of a huge plane crash finds those who perished want him to deal with their unfinished business and get to the root cause of the disaster.Quite action-packed with some good gory descriptions and demonic entities, but a little thin on character development. Still an enjoyable quick read.
In the process of revisiting the author's novels, I last read this book-this very copy, thirty three years ago (!) and having a vague recollection of the ending did not spoil it for me. Good, early Herbert.
Telesni horor ti je specijalnost Dzejmse, mani se duhova.
Excellent short ghost story with some genuinely creepy moments.
Yep I liked it. A mix-up of genres really, but, who cares as long as it's a good story - which it was!
Classic horror come ghost story with a great twist at the end. Read it, herbert at his best
A plane crash over Eton casts a pall over the town, but as time goes on, the gloom refuses to lift. Strange deaths and suicides now surround the collegiate area and it is left to the crash's sole survivor to investigate the reason.Herbert creates a cosily creepy atmosphere, but the novel's climax feels rushed and ill thought through.
I love JH's stuff but when I'm reading him, I don't expect a plot, high quality narrative, a classic English ghost story, superb spooky set-pieces and a proper ending.
This novel is a quality piece of English ghost story writing and if it hadn't been written by JH, I think it would have been much more celebrated.
It clunks a bit in places and I can never work out the relevance of Tewson leaving his briefcase in the public bar but these are small grumbles in the face of such a beautifully eerie read.
This was disappointing compared to some of his other works, and with the storyline about the Nazi sympathizer and possible black magic, I felt this was a companion piece to The Spear, which I remember being dreadful.The story starts off well but then kinda falls apart.
The horror set pieces are OK, but as usual, the author's prose style is somewhat "choking" to read, for want of a better word.
There's just something about the nouns and adjectives he uses that make reading him a bit of a slog.
This isn't so bad when the story is interesting, but here it really becomes a struggle, even in a short book.
Prima volta che leggo qualche cosa di Herbert e devo dire che "Il superstite" si è rivelata essere una piacevole lettura, la storia è molto scorrevole e ben strutturata, nn è un romanzo lungo quindi solo il personaggio principale, ovvero Keller, viene presentato con un po di corposità.Dovrebbe essere un piccolo romanzo horror, ma purtroppo non crea nel lettore ansia e vera paura man mano che si leggono le varie azioni della storia. L' ho trovato comunque ben scritto e piacevole con qualche punta di suspence. 3,5 stelle
A brilliant book which had my eyes flying over the page eagerly wanting to know what happens next! James Herbert is extremely good at inserting brilliant measures of fear, excitement, suspense and a small dose of sarcastic cynical humour into his writing. I especially enjoyed the ending as i felt it wasn't entirely expected, however in light of it small clues that i overlooked as seemingly insignificant throughout the book suddenly have a whole new meaning; encouraging the reader to sit and ponder upon finishing. All in all, a brilliant read.
disappointing. a good set up and I'm in the mood for some old school 70s scares. and he delivers on these with some genuinely creepy moments. but what's missing is the mystery element normally found in his novels which keep the narrative driving forward. this had a very slim plot with an underwhelming ending.
In reading this I realized fairly early on that it had previously been adapted into a movie I'd watched. This realization blunted my enjoyment of the book. Although, it is fair to say that even without knowledge of how the plot was going to unfold, this isn't even close to being James Herbert's finest work.
A chilling tale of a man who was supposed to have survived a plane crash not knowing he was only preserved for the purpose of exacting revenge for the ghosts of the victims of the plane crash. This is a tale which really makes your hairs stand up and your body frozen.
The first James Herbert book I've read. Slightly disappointing. I kind of caught on to what was going on with Keller's character early in the story, and the end was rather disappointing and abrupt. Horror novels just don't seem to do it for me, and this was no exception.
