https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27694.This_Rough_Magic
trade lines from Shakespeare with one of the most famous actors in Great Britain, who is also hiding in Corfu for reasons that gradually become apparent: (I'm nominating Sean Connery to play the part of Sir Julian).
. .As always, Mary Stewart writes wonderful, descriptive scenes of landscapes, homes and people, and I felt like I was actually transported to Corfu.
I also loved the various references to Shakespeare's The Tempest, including pertinent quotes at the beginning of each chapter and Sir Julian's theory that Corfu = Prospero's island.
And don't forget the dolphin!September 2014 and February 2018 buddy reads with the Mary Stewart group.
For the last Mary Stewart 'group read' which I did for Madam, Will You Talk?, I decided to cast the book as a movie, picking glamorous stars from the fifties.
Now casting this book was a little bit trickier then for MWYT, since This Rough Magic is supposed to take place 1964.
For beautiful actress and animal lover, Lucy Waring, I thought I would cast the lovely Julie Christie.
For the beautiful Miranda, I decided to go with lovely Greek actress, Irene Papas.Yes!
Darren played a Greek in The Guns of Navarone and I thought he did a good job.
I will definitely be reading more Stewart books.
Stewart connects the novel to Shakespeare’s play in a variety of ways: Lucy’s sister refers to her unborn child as Caliban (a bit cruel, I thought), Sir Julian Gale expounds on his theory that Corfu is the island on which the play is set, his son Max is composing the score for a film adaptation of the play, a young Greek brother and sister are named Miranda and Spiro (sounds like Prospero!) and each chapter starts with a quote from the play.
This Rough Magic has long been one that I had fond memories of reading several decades ago, but as every reader knows, sometimes time (and maturity) has a way of changing our perceptions of books we enjoyed when younger.
Thankfully, my fond memories of this novel remain fond; This Rough Magic is just as magical, just as suspenseful and just as enjoyable a read in 2013 as it was in the 1980's.
How to create the perfect romantic suspense novel:1.
select a stirring and exotic setting, like the isle of Corfu in Greece, with caves and hidden grottos.2.
conjure up a castle in somewhat spotty repair3.
add a plucky but somewhat naive heroine and a disdainful and gorgeous hero.4.
mix in a few blood-chilling dangers (with sports cars and fancy boats)5.
I love Mary Stewart.
I am revisiting all of Mary Stewart's novels, after so many years between that it is like reading them for the first time.
This was the first book I read by MS and I found out about it bec someone on my Flist is in the MS group as a mod, I think.I fell in love with MS's wonderful, lush descriptions of outdoor scenery of Corfu and its festivals.
My senses of sight and smell were fully engaged as I read this book.
But I think it seemed so because I didn't know this is a "romantic" thriller.
The thriller part of the story overshadowed the romance and could have stood on its own wo the romance tacked on at the end.
Mary Stewart created the romantic thriller genre and here she is at the top of her game. There is so much to like here: a magnificent setting on the Ionian island of Corfu, magical scenes and descriptions, a great plot and splendid pacing; but what I love best about this book is its heroine, actress Lucy Waring...and, of course, the dolphin.

So so charming. You know a book is good when you find yourself smiling while reading it. The rose garden, the friendly dolphin, the white Persian cat, and the exciting motorcycle ride along the Corfu coast. What's not to like?
There's your usual plucky heroine, a couple of potential love interests, and the usual exotic setting, this time in Corfu, and this time laced with Shakespeare -- which might put some people off, because I don't tend to like books that try to do something with Shakespeare, whether it be modern retellings (which makes me wonder why I did pick up a copy of Anne Fortier's Juliet -- sheer curiosity, I suppose) or finding a lost sonnet or love affair or the true identity of Shakespeare.
"Here was I, Lucy Waring, being asked into the water for a game." This Rough Magic follows the usual Mary Stewart formula - exotic setting (Corfu), heroine in peril, hero who doesn't seem like a hero at first and of course a rocking good mystery to be solved. "The body was lying half in, half out, of the largest patch of shadow." Despite being a bit dated (loved all the nylon clothing!), this was a lot of fun, especially the last 100 or so pages that were pretty darn near unputdownable.
(that didn't spoil my enjoyment, hence the high rating) Lucy Waring had everything you could want in a heroine, spirit, ingenuity, strong opinions and no fear of letting others know what she thinks of them.
I can't really say to much about him and risk giving it all away but, I think as soon as you start reading you'll know who's who.
(http://www.w3toplisting.com/beautiful...) To top it all off there was the lovely ending in a true Mary Stewart style.
My Favorites so far by Mary Stewart 1# Wildfire at Midnight★★★★★  2# Madam, Will You Talk?
Plenty of reviews already on offer, it is a Mary Stewart novel after all. Plenty to enjoy with this vintage romantic suspense set on Corfu. Trade mark Mary Stewart with an engaging plot, a "plucky" heroine and a stalwart male lead. Wonderful descriptions of the countryside and a nice touch, the introduction of the dolphin.Love this author and her novels that I read avidly in my younger years........they never lose their magic.
I am not sure these details could be any better conveyed on the screen.The story is very angsty with a bit of humor thrown in.
I don't "feel" any of the characters and there is no magical interaction between any of them.
The relationships are not well developed and for all the profuse imagery we are given about the setting and action details, I am still wondering what Lucy really looks like?So 4 stars for the atmosphere, imagery, clever plot, humor but minus 1 for Lucy's dubious behavior, unfounded romance and weakish character development.
. .'"It will come as no surprise to anyone who is already a devoted fan of Mary Stewart that I found this book to be enormously entertaining!!!
How awesome is that???The descriptions of the island are breathtaking!
I will be reading The Tempest at some point in the near future; this is due to the wonderful references and quotes from the play that added so much atmosphere to this story!
I highly recommend this one!!P.S. I am really going to miss the dolphin and the cat!!!Read with the Mary Stewart group February, 2018.
I picked this as my light reading for a holiday in Corfu and came home having decided that Mary Stewart has become my new guilty secret.
This was a charming romantic mystery, depicting the island in the unspoilt 1960s, as seen through the eyes of glamorous resting actress Lucy Waring.
It was fun, while holidaying on the island, to spot locations from the book - St Spiro’s church in Corfu town, Empress Elizabeth’s Achilleon and the ever threatening ‘communist’ coast of Albania.
I noticed one reader talked of reading a Mary Stewart as being like taking a holiday.
Really 3.5 stars.This wasn't the best Mary Stewart I've ever read but a slow bland start was more than made up for by an exciting (if slightly implausible) finish. As always the scenery was wonderful and as with her other romantic suspense I've read, it had a real 1950s/60s filmic quality about it. Fluffy but fun, with Shakespearean references thrown in.And a special thanks to the 'book fairy' who sent me my copy as a present. It was much appreciated.Buddy read with Kim and lots of others over at the Mary Stewart group :-).
I'll just say that I enjoyed this, thought it was well written and was fairly gripping toward the end.I liked the retro references to gold lipstick and nylon clothes which made me think of 60s films (gotta love em!
Cigarette smoking was kept pretty much in its place in this one (MS characters are often chain smokers) which I found refreshing, although they do still smoke.
I thought that the h/h had fairly good chemistry but I would have enjoyed seeing them interact together a bit more.I cant say I was steamrolled, though, by the plot.
I would rate it about equal to Mary Stewart's The Moonspinners.
If you know Mary Stewart’s work, you know what to expect from this one — which is entirely why rereading her books is comfort reading for me, of course.
Not without some rocky bits along the way, including not being entirely sure which one of the potential love interests is actually a bad guy.The bad guy in this book gives me chills at times, in his utter amoral self-absorption.
At other times, the condescension to the locals is just a bit too much, even allowing for the work as a product of its time.Best character: the dolphin, of course.Solidly enjoyable, featuring one of Stewart’s more resourceful heroines.Originally reviewed for breathesbooks.com.
It's her usual formula, but I couldn't put this book down.
Another writer would turn this into a pulpy romance, but Mary Stewart pulls together all the classic elements I love and surrounds them with word magic.
It's a lovely read, with the 1960's attitudes and nylon clothes adding to the charm.
The protagonist was gutsy, not hung up on herself, and humorous, the descriptions of Corfu were better than a book of travel photos, and the suspense .
There wasn't any of that, yet I'd say this book has some of the best romance I've ever come across.
Though I ended up liking this story, I had my doubts while reading the first half or so.
It seems like there was alot of dialogue going nowhere and all the literary discussion about Shakespeare's Tempest went right over my head.
As a result, I found that very slow going.
(And I never really understood what all this had to do with the story anyway.)However, Mary Stewart once again shone in her descriptions of a foreign land.
Plus, the last quarter of the book was very exciting so that made up (a bit) for the slower earlier parts.I'm glad I finally read this!Buddy read for the Madam, want to talk about author Mary Stewart group.
(Gasp!!) Mary Stewart does beautiful romantic-thrillers.
And she does such beautiful descriptions of the setting and its history that you can feel yourself there.This is one of my favorite Stewart stories.
Out-of-work actress Lucy Waring is staying on the island of Corfu with her pregnant sister (who says they will name the baby Prospero if it's a boy!) There are allusions to The Tempest in this island setting - and of course there is a tempest figuring strongly in the story, and a dolphin first saved by Lucy which later saves Lucy.
My first book by Mary Stewart and what a wonderful introduction.
Set on the Greek island of Corfu in the early 1960's.
This book has suspense, a touch of romance, wonderful setting, boats, cliffs, caves, secluded beaches, villas, a nasty villain, and a wonderful dolphin.
Mary Stewart is a master of description, I really felt like I was there.
I don't get that feeling from a lot of authors.
I was sucked in from the very beginning, but truly could not put the book down for the last six or so chapters.
I will certainly be reading more MS books in the future.
'This Rough Magic' (in itself a quote from The Tempest) begins with Lucy Waring's arrival in the Greek island of Corfu, a place rich in myth and tradition.
It felt natural to follow Lucy's footsteps as she tries to get to the truth of the mysterious and deadly occurences on the beautiful island of Corfu.All in all, I have to say that 'This Rough Magic' was a good introduction to Mary Stewart, and made me want to read more of her stories.
It shouldn’t, because if romance is about mystery, excitement and remoteness from everyday life then Mary Stewart’s books hit the mark.
It’s a classic Mary Stewart - written in the early 1960s: - she describes a period familiar to her (and to me), but one which is as distant as Jane Austen’s era to those who were not even born then!
Mary always includes references to art, music, history, politics, literature et al and these certainly add a richness to the story that is a delight to read.
I loved this book when I read it when I was 15 and I have loved it ever since.
Buddy read with Hannah, Carol, Misfit, Susan, Anne, Dianne Lynn, Catie, Shelley, Jeannette, Kim, Lorraine.The scenario is based on the Corfu island which was splendid described by the author. A lot of references of The Tempest: the idea that Corfu is the setting for The Tempest. The main character, the actress Lucy Waring is too juvenile in my opinion. The scene of the dolphin's rescue is hilarious in someway and quite implausible in all senses. Anyway, it was an enjoyable reading.Thanks Hannah for your kind invitation to join this buddy read even if I was quite late in join it.
After this reread, I am upgrading my rating to 5 stars. I believe now that this may be my favorite Mary Stewart. I had remembered a lot of it but really enjoyed this reading even more. Definitely one of my favorites and maybe my favorite.
A fun light read. The mystery worked better for me than the romance and the occasional silliness of the plot didn't matter much at all.
Looks like I've finally reached the right point in my life for them, a bit like with the Vorkosigan books.The setup is Stewart's usual "English heroine having adventures in exotic location".
Lucky Lucy, her sister is married to a very rich Italian businessman whose family has had property in Corfu for many generations, so there's a lovely villa in a beautiful seaside location for her to stay in rent-free.Lucy soon becomes embroiled in the life of the neighbourhood.
Still, it worked perfectly fine.There's a lovely bit of romance.
This was my introduction to Mary Stewart's writing. I read this in the early 70's because I was stuck without a book at my step-grandparents & bored to tears. As a teenage boy, I didn't like admitting to enjoying a romance book, but the story sucked me in. I later read The Crystal Cave & found my favorite Arthurian legend. I never read another romance by her, if she wrote any. I've never sought them out, but I'm glad I read this one.
