https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12468.The_Executioner_s_Song
The Executioner's Song tells the story of Gary Mark Gilmore (funny how killers and child stars always go by their full names), a lowlife thug who'd spent over half his life in prison before ruthlessly murdering two men while on parole.
He does this in The Executioner's Song by the simple fact that he wrote a 1,000 page book about Gary Gilmore.
Moreoever, despite what the publisher's copy would have you believe, Gary Gilmore didn't "fight for his right to die." Instead, he sat on his sociopathic ass while the State of Utah battled the ACLU over the date of his execution and his own lawyers battled over who would get paid for the rights to his stories.
Not having read anything else by stormin’ Norman except his dubious, lubricious “biography” of Marilyn Monroe (I liked it but the pictures were better, I mean to say, he had about 8 wives himself and he was moaning out loud that he’d never married Marilyn, really it was a bit gross) I had thought he was one of the most style-conscious American writers but in this book, it being one of those “non-fiction novels” like In Cold Blood, he throws “style” right out the window and it’s all written in ironed-flat just-the-facts affectless Carver-speak, an absolute delight to read.
(I think I loved Nicole when she tells Gary about the letter her eleven year old self wrote to a perverted boy who wouldn't leave her alone.
(Nicole wasn't always the girl fucking a store manager for food stamps money to pay for car repairs so she'd have to stop hitching to visit Gary in prison to Nicole.) I was impressed with this book for walking with both feet on both sides of her worlds.
Like I don't believe that April was thinking of Nicole and didn't fuck Gary when he took her around for his crime spree (and one of the murders she was waiting in the car).
There is a TED talk by Bryan Stevenson, about racial and class injustice in the prison system, that asks what I have come to realize is the hardest and most important question about capital punishment.
And I used to be pro death penalty, before I read about it in practice, because I believe that people like Ted Bundy, Richard Ramirez, and Tiny Davis have perpetrated some true evil and should permanently lose their freedom.
But, do we have the right to kill them -- as the anti-death penalty coalition in this book asks--to show that killing is wrong?
Finished after three years and three copies. Totally worth the thousand pages of time, even with all the gaps and hassle.
A big part of this second half is spent on negotiations for the film right to turn Gilmore's life into a movie, the repeated appeal (the Stay) resulting to several postponements of the execution and the eternal love between Gary Gilmore and Nicole that reminded me of Romeo and Juliet because at one point, they both took drugs as they attempted a double suicide.
Two writs that were repeatedly mentioned in the second half.Prior to this book, I used to be unaffected whenever I heard people getting death penalty.
GARY MARK GILLMORE IS DEADThis book is a faboulas account of Gary Mark Gillmore and those who shaped his life.
Gary was a thief from the beginning and served over half his life in prison.
Coming out of prison as a thirtyfive year old man, not knowing how to work, cary on relationships, or do any of the day to day tasks we all face, Gary kills two people.
While he is on death row many family members and lawers as well as the press are trying to stay the execution which was much against Gary's wishes.
He thought that getting executed would earn him absolution.
What a ******* book! Mind numbingly good. An intellectual grand slam!

I can't resist the deliciously apparent metaphor provided by the circumstance that it took me pretty much exactly from Christmas to Easter to read this epic, 1100 page book about the life and death of Gary Gilmore.
Extremely suddenly, the sense of nearly idyllic security provided by having just read 500 pages about 4 or 5 people in a single town is exploded by the introduction of all of the big-time journalists (Geraldo Rivera, Barbara Walters), politicians (the Supreme Court, the president), Hollywood producers (big names in the 70's, though lost on me today), and celebrities (when Johnny Cash calls, Gilmore says, "Is this the real Johnny Cash?
Da, to je užasno ambiciozno (to je Majler) i često mnogo napornije nego što bi čovek očekivao, ali deluje krajnje verodostojno (svaki glas zadržava toliko individualnosti da se prvih nekoliko stotina strana čini kao da se Majler baš i nije mnogo trudio da oblikuje te silne intervjue) i često upečatljivo (ali opet, to su trenuci koje treba sitom prosejavati).
Dominacija njihovih glasova dosta jasno odražava dvodelnu strukturu knjige – do ubistava i posle njih – i napor koji je autor uložio da pruži celovitu sliku ljudi o kojima piše: nije baš da ima mnogo toga pozitivnog da se kaže o Šilerovom poslu, ali on se toliko trudi da bude korektan i toliko investira sebe u to što radi – i sposoban je (ili je Majler sposoban za njega) za istinski jezive uvide u vlastitu ličnost da...
The quality of the research is amazing, and with Gary Gilmore especially Mailer creates a wonderful literary portrait.
I couldn't shake the feeling though, that as mailer so meticulously reconstructs the pertinent actions and backgrounds of virtually EVERYBODY important to his subject, the discussion of Gilmore's victims felt kind of tacked on.
In fairness, this disparity could well just be because Gilmore's side cooperated with Mailer on the book.
Similarly, I was a little disappointed that Gilmore's girlfriend Nicole - to whom Mailer devotes about as much attention as Gilmore and paints as compelling a portrait - just kind of disappears at the end.
In the Summer of 1976, Max Jensen had been married one year.
He managed to get a job working nights at a gas station in Utah.
One night, Gary Gilmore pulled in and put a gun to Jensen's head.
Then Gilmore said "This one's for me" and shot Jensen in the head.It the Summer of 1977.
I had just finished my first year of law school and, not being well-connected, managed to get a job working nights at a secluded little gas station outside Pittsburgh, PA.
One of them pulled a gun, held it against my head and walked me into the bathroom.

As such, then, the thousand-page manuscript is split into two parts: in "Western Stories," we get the tale of Gilmore himself, the murders that sent him to jail, and in general just the kind of rough-and-tumble life he was leading back in early-'70s Utah where these events took place; while in "Eastern Stories," we get an exhaustively detailed guide to the actual trial, as well as all the machinations that came with him becoming a cause celebre (including a last-minute phone call from Johnny Cash right before his death, as well as one of history's first media frenzies over securing a criminal's story rights).The argument for it being a classic:Well, for starters, say its fans, this won the 1980 Pulitzer Prize, and was also easily the biggest commercial hit of Mailer's entire oeuvre; but this is just a deserving capper, they argue, to the long career of a fascinating writer, one who with a handful of others almost singlehandedly changed the way we now think of journalism.
The Lord High Executioner's Song, The Mikado, Gilbert & SullivanProblem is that this is not just 1100 pages of a dude in a black hood doing the watusi to LMFAO.
It is important for Mailer to show everyone around Gilmore, so we can see that it's his whole world, his whole milieu that directs him to where he ends up, but it didn't need this much detail.
Mailer could've trimmed 400 pages out and it still would've been longer than Crime and Punishment, y'know?And he definitely should have trimmed out most or all of Gilmore's letters.
In the Executioner’s Song, Norman Mailer chronicles the life of Gary Gilmore; a man responsible for murdering two people in Utah in 1976.
The book takes a particular interest in the events surrounding the murders, trial and execution of Gary Gilmore and follows the lives of people who have come into contact with him.The first part of the book leading to the murders is engaging; whereas the second part is dull; as it provides lengthy accounts of secondary characters that are irrelevant to the story of Gilmore.
Mailer introduces minute and at times private details of these characters in the hope that the reader will be able to understand the psychological makeup of Gilmore and the reasons behind his murders.
This book is a total slog.
The Goodreads description calls it meticulous; I call it boring.
It kind of lands in gray area between fiction and non-fiction, and it's pretty obvious that neither Mailer nor Schiller (the principal "researcher"/journalist/producer/opportunist) actually did a face-to-face interview with Gilmore.As a subject, Gilmore just isn't that interesting.
One of the journalists suggests that Gilmore is "mediocrity enlarged by history," and that pretty much sums it up.
He was a mediocre criminal and an awful human being.
Had he ended up with life in prison, rather than a death sentence, no one would written ten words about him.I can't believe this won a Pulitzer.

I had this book on my list as "must-read classic".
I don't know where that came from.
It was one of the most boring books I ever read.
I cannot believe I ploughed through > 1,000 pages of excrutiatingly detailed narration of the true crimes, trial and execution of Gary Gilmore.
I didn't give anything away; it's on the book jacket.
After reading how each person dressed, how they were raised (even the minor players whose names you can forget right afterwards!), their exact words in every exact circumstance, the trial and the legalities of the appeals....
What made this case so controversial is the fact that Gilmore decided he did not want to wait and go through the endless appeals process.
Like most true crime books, this story takes you through the entire trial process and you get a behind the scenes look at how the criminal justice system of the United States works..
It also demonstrated how political this process really is and how the killer is often exploited by his own attorneys and other people in his life who want to use his story for profit and fame.
Gary Gilmore was executed by the state of Utah on January 17, 1977.
Holy shit.
I picked this off the shelf after a trip to SLC.
Knew Utah was related.
Didn't know I'd devour 1000 pages so fast.
I think this should be required reading in the US of A.
As a lover of Vollmann, and unfamiliar with any of Mailer's novels or longer works, I now compare his non-judgemental style and pathos to WTV, only he writes in a manner any one who made it to HS could understand.
Gonna be foisting this fucker on many people in the near future.
I seriously got a near-wrist sprain from power reading whilst drinking wine and thinking I was immune to pain, then alternated with the e-book.
Brilliant!
I won't rate this, because I only got about a hundred pages. I couldn't make it any further, though. I disliked the writing style intensely.
Mailer dug into the world of Gary Gilmore and it's a none to happy place. He must have had just a plethora of access to this guy. This is Mailer's attempt to do the Capote non-fiction as narrative and he pulls it off. As stark and alarming as In Cold Blood is, Mailer's gift for the English language, his attention to detail, the length of the novel (it's a long one) and the subject matter make Executioner's Song the "classic of the this genre."
Capote was so right. This isn't writing; it's typing. If you want to know about this case, I suggest SHOT IN THE HEART by Mikal Gilmore.
i felt if i didn't finish this extended case history of one man's journey through the court, parole and prison systems of america then mailer was going to punch my ears.
What keeps it interesting from start to finish is the relationship between Gary Gilmore and the quite young Nicole (if i remember he was fifteen years her senior).
One classic American tale of the west, lust, jealousy, the death penalty, and of course, Norman Mailer.
I saw a still of this movie hanging at the contemporary art museum the other day and from Mailer's word to Barney's tribute, Gilmore's journey is a continued reminder of American's fascination with people losing it over love.
It’s that riveting, plus I set an artificial schedule for my reading, one book a week, and this book is a library at 1,000-plus pages, so I’ve had to neglect all family, work and intimate relations to dive deep into the lives of some fucked-up people.
The book covers only nine months in the life of Gary Gilmore, his release from penitentiary to his precedent-setting execution, but in that time a detailed world is created that manages to both create sympathy for the killer while never penetrating his poses to see the real man and what motivated his actions.
I'm working on this thing where I'm going to stop feeling guilty for getting bored with books and I'm going to abandon them with...
The thing is, this is not a boring book, not at all.
But as can happen with books that are nearly as long as the Old Testament, when I lose my momentum, it can be hard to jump back in.
(Straight from my Google Drafts folder where I was keeping notes for what I imagined would be my review after reading the entire novel.)The prose is surprisingly sloppy, with awkward phrasing and even more awkward dialogue breaks."I feel bad," said Gary, "about this.
Much more of an ambitious book than I realized when I began it.
But the book goes on as an expose of media frenzy, the legal system, the judicial and correctional systems and American pop culture of the 1970s.I also think Mailer wrote so well that there were revelations about America in the 70s he may not have realized he was preserving.
For one, I enjoyed the personal letters of people.
In white trash America of 1976, people wrote letters and while their grammar and spelling were poor, they tried to write well.
