https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18420.Hands_of_Light
I really loved this section, Heyoan On Death: We have already died in forgetting who we are.
So although we fear death, we have already died, and in the incarnation process of reintegrating with our greater being, we actually find more life.
The only thing that dies is death.
During our life we wall off experiences that we wish to forget.
And the most important thing is that death has already occurred in those portions of yourself that are walled-off.
You have in fact incarnated to bring to life those pieces of you that are already in what you call death, if we should ever use that word.
I went to look up specific chakras and how/ why they are blocked, and that information is spread throughout the entire book!
every chapter is about chakras.It is designed for people who want to learn about energetic healing and the entire human spiritual experience.
She tells stories of healings she has done then gives the reader a detailed "How-To" of energetic healing.This book reminds of what I already believe: We are spirit in human form, we came here for a reason, we are pure energy, and life is painful, so energy gets stuck and blocked.
This is a great book.
Barbara shares her in-depth knowledge and understanding in this field of healing.
The book has helped me to further understand the human energy fields (aura) and provided an insight into healing practices along with exercises and techniques that I can practice to enhance my abilities.
In addition to her books, Barbara has set up the Barbara Brennan School of Healing, with campus' in Miami, United States and Japan.
She is seen as world renowned expert in her field.
So if this is an area of interest for you, then you absolutely need to read this book.
This book was fantastic!
As a layperson, what has stayed with me the most is 1)the author's history of science and the naming of major periods or influencial people, and 2)an explanation of research done to prove that color has vibrational frequency(ies) and wave band(s).
Yes, there is so much more that could stay with me; but the simple wonderment and appreciation for expressing the big picture before delving into the detail helped me immensely.
This book is one in which new things are discovered with every reading of it.
The artist's renderings were most helpful in my understanding what the author was communicating - such talent.
I am fascinated with the author's scientific knowledge of physics and she ties in all that with her field of healing, energy field, etc.
22), and we sense the presence of a person in the room without seeing or hearing (field interaction); we speak of good and bad vibes, of sending energy to others or of reading each other's thoughts.
All this is great, but why does the title say on the cover "a guide" to healing through the human energy field?
I kept reading and looking for that supposed "guide" and I have yet to find it.
This is a book I chose as part of the required reading section as I make my way toward certification in Healing Energy.It is difficult to review such a book.
Her eye for the minutest detail in the healing process was breath-taking.
And the healing sessions she chronicles are almost unbelievable.
I hold up the book and the author as an example of what is possible on my own private journey.
I believe these were the most personally useful sections of the book.
Not an easy or casual read, but for those seeking knowledge of this old/new way of healing, this is helpful.
This is a work on healing and energy work which has been around for years. They just don't get any better. The book is encyclopedic in its wealth of information and takes you through the course of energy education at your own pace. Everything is covered, nothing missed. This book is timeless as is the information contained in the numerous pages. A definite must have for the idle curious to the dedicated hands on healer. It will make you a believer if you are not already.Barbara is simply amazing!
This book is intense. It is the most thorough, complex, detailed guide to energy healing I've read. I haven't even finished it yet because there's so much to take in! If you're interested in energy healing, chakras, and viewing/working with the aura, this is the book to have. I recommend buying this book and her other manual, Light Emerging, if you're interested in these topics.
Uvijek naučim nešto novo i to je super
I am not finishing this book because my body is clearly not responding to the text.
In all other books I have read on energy work, whether about Qigong or prana or yoga, my hands, my scalp, my body responds.
The author really emphasizes that the book is best used in a classroom environment or at least with the guidance of another.
Under the circumstances, one has to wonder why the book has been released for general publication and isn’t clearly defined as a textbook on the cover, front and/or back.I have no doubt that other people will read and benefit from the content.
I read ( or I should say I studied )this book years ago and I loved it.This is one of those life changing books 4 me.I just reacently reaquired it and I am enjoying reading it a second timeI am working the meditations into my Yoga routine and daily living.
It covers many different topics, and is quite an indepth book, yet very user friendly too.
I like how the author covers different aspects that she became aware of as she developed as a healer, and the diagrams in the book also help to portray what she is saying in the text of the book - the diagrams also make excellent quick reference books from time to time.
This book would be suitable for beginners and more seasoned practitioners alike.
In my opinion, it would be the bible of any books out there on the energy field system.
I cannot recommend this book highly enough!!
the bibliography was garbage. This is a pretty standard text for people that want to heal everything imaginable. Her take on Riech was sloppy. But this is kind of a must read to get a bead on modern neo-yoga chakra thought.
Like cyclones, each pair of chakra spins in a balanced way in a clockwise direction if it is open and healthy, and would take in energy from the outside to replenish body.
Which is a very good thing since I do not have to learn entirely new things, but continue with my yoga practise with renewed understanding on it's impact on the chakras.I did not absorb the centre portion of the book much, as it contains more technical healing methods and visualisation requirements (eg for chelation) which I find difficult to fathom in real practise at the moment.
Δεν είχα σκοπό να προσθέσω το δικό μου λόγο υπό μορφή «κριτικής», σε αυτό το θεόσταλτο δώρο που είναι η ανάγνωση και των 333 σελίδων αυτού του βιβλίου, παρά μόνο για να επισημάνω πως στην ελληνική αυτή έκδοση λείπουν δυστυχώς κάποιες εικόνες και πολλές είναι ασπρόμαυρες.
Μόνο όταν είναι εστιασμένος εντός του εαυτού του και εντός του σύμπαντος μπορεί να περάσει μέσα από την εμπειρία του να είναι συνεχώς μάρτυς του βαθύτατου πόνου, ο οποίος είναι τόσο πολύ απλωμένος στην ανθρωπότητα.»Κλείνοντας, να προσθέσω, πως το βιβλίο αυτό το είχα αγοράσει πολλές δεκαετίες πριν από αυτή την πλήρη ανάγνωση και ενδοσκόπησή του.
I read both barbara ann books.
They reinforced the independent studies, encouraged in my upbringing years, that is, went right along with my findings, as encouraged to explore and activate/do,by my folks.I consider her work and works to be beautiful...there is a place or two, where I see that she might have taken a more explanatory direction -- still, she didn't...and, for someone practiced, her approach works (I am only considering that those not already informed/experienced might not 'get' it, or might be wondering a thing or two -- again, for me, I feel joyfully lucky, blessed, that I have spent time with her methods, including her illustrations.
Allerdings ist mir die Autorin dieses Buches eindeutig zu esoterisch unterwegs - bei ihr passiert alles ganz plötzlich, Erklärung bekommt man fast nie eine.
Leider bewirkt das bei mir "beim einen Ohr rein, beim anderen raus", dabei steckt in diesem Buch viel Wahrheit.
Schon möglich, dass es daran liegt, dass das Buch schon etwas älter ist, aber bei mir kommts einfach nicht richtig an.Also zurückgeben und handfeste Wissenschaft heranziehen: Joe Dispenza, Ulrich Warnke, Bruce Lipton und co.
Ihr könnt euch drauf einstellen (falls es euch denn interessiert ^^), dass die alle bald folgen werden in der Liste "schräger Literatur".
Finally a healer/clairvoyant with a solid background in physics!! Her voice and experience in psychology also lends authority to the transformation of existing paradigms in health and science. She is not espousing anything new but her knowledge in western science and her clairvoyant vision and healing abilities help to make yet another case in chipping away the old materialistic view of reality that is what most in our society hold true. If you interested in Auras, psychology, clairvoyance, the sea of chi and healing this book will be a good read for you.
Fascinating reading on auras and healingI read this book to understand energy healing, how that works and why. This book was a deep detailed description with examples, illustrations, and a guide on how to become a healer. The author presented many thought provoking concepts that are helpful to anyone who wants to release negativity and grow to a stronger self. I think the book is more of a launch for those who want to become an energy healer. The path to becoming an energy healer is a much more complex process than just reading a book.
WOW! Full on and amazing stuff.. This book sits in my references shelf.. I read it so fast the first time, it was so full of detailed explanations of energy fields and techniques, i was amazed.. I wanted to KNOW everything, right away.. now i just pick it up now and then and re-absorb.
I've read this book over ten years ago and am reading it again. It's very informative, interesting to read and I love it.
Forced me to shake the core of my beliefs and opened a whole new world to me.
Barbara Brennan's book is a wonderful thorough guide to healing the self, empowering your own healing ability and becoming well from the inside out. I highly recommend it.
Thoroughly enjoying this book; however, would want to be taught by a certified instructor, and not just anyone who has already read it.
Absolutely love this book, and also Light Emerging by the same author.These two books are 'must haves' for any energy worker/light worker.So much info packed into them.I find myself always dipping into them both for information, using them as major references nowadays. <3
It is not a reference book. If you want to know about death, incarcerations, spirituality and so on, you must read this book.
It answered many questions, validated a few experiences, and assurances of what I have seen. I did not finish the book, it is way beyond my abilities.
The section of the book where she explains Newtonian physics and how those theories have (detrimentally) shaped how we think about our world on an everyday basis was so mind-blowing.
I always thought of physics theories as "outside" everyday knowledge and practice, but that is clearly such a false view.I had NO idea the human energy field and chakras were so complex before I read this book.
Liked that the author has a scientific background and focused on combining spirituality and science.
Loved the analysis and details about the chakras.The only thing that sounded a bit strange to me was Heyoan stuff.
Also the parts about the "angelic beings" sound very much like christian brainwash to me and I'm allergic to this.
It was fairly insignificant in the awesomeness of the book, but it did sound strange to me.Other than that, I would say this is an amazing book.
I would recommend this book to any healer and to any person that is interested in spirituality and how the higher bodies work.Amazing book.
Although, I have to say, it has given me a broader insight about the subject I do find this book a little egotistical and wirtten by a scientist who has written it for scientifically minded people.
This book could easily be condensed down once the waffle has been taken out, buy hey that would make less money.
I am only following this as it is one of many covered in my course work.
May I also say that the first of her books is a little less scienfic.
