https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219563.Shabanu
Shabanu: Or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love Female Servitude.Imagine that you are a woman, and you are living in a large house with several female roommates.
Shabanu, a nomadic "Daughter of the Wind" who loves her camels and her family (in that order) more than her life, learns that she is nothing more than a pawn in the Marriage Game.
And there's her crazy aunt Sharma, who is offered to readers as a modern Pakistani thinker: she is widowed and a landowner, and hates the whole arranged marriage thing.
The book offers survivors/opponents to arranged marriage, such as Sharma, but then transforms them into complacent pawns in the current system.
An amazing look at the life of a Pakistani girl who has grown up in the desert. When she reaches marriageable age, content with the knowledge that she will marry one of her cousins, family tragedy and upheaval leads to her being used as a bargaining chip to settle a feud. The author lived among the camel-herding people of Pakistan for several years, and bases her characters on real people she knows.
And it is indeed very interesting to read about the life of an 11-year old Pakistani girl who's got a lot on her plate at a very young age.Shabanu is the daughter of a camel farmer.
In a year, Shabanu is also to be married.
There are a lot of things in their culture I am so confused by or found myself disagreeing with (marrying at the age of 13!) and I don't think I'll ever get used to that idea.
There were a lot of times I felt so frustrated while reading this.
I also wonder if American teenagers would really be able to relate in any way to this book.
After all, we're talking about a culture where girls get married as soon as they get their first period and are expected to bear children as teenagers.
I'm just not sure if teenagers would really appreciate it.
As far as whether it is authentic or realistic - I personally don't know this culture very well, so that's a very hard thing for me to judge.I suppose the thing that bothers me a little is that I’m not sure how we are supposed to interpret the culture based on this book.
This is one of those books that I thought was SOOOOO GOOOOOD....when I was 12.
I'm afraid to read it again, as my taste has probably changed since then.
I like keeping in my childhood capsule of memory- untarnished and stil favored.
You know what I'm talking about.
I watched Flight of the Navigator the a few years back.
I was SOOOOO GOOOOD, too.
Lame, annoying and I'll never watch it again.
I should have left well enough alone.Though, if memory serves, I think it gives a fairly accurate account of Pakistanian life.
Shabanu and the sequels are important books for the world we live in because they describe a proud, independent people who are now in the midst of what will be a long, horrible war.
Shabanu is the youngest daughter of desert people - her description of her family.
She describes a world with little water, little comfort and yet rich with life.
I read this to my kids years ago and my daughter, then about 10, was horrified to hear the matter-of-fact way in which the 12-year-old Shabanu talked about her marriage, which would take place in a year.
Shabanu is a pre teen.
She prefers to take care of her family's camel herd rather than sit around, cover herself, and talk about weddings like her older and very much engaged sister.
Most of the novel is about her sister's upcoming wedding and the gathering of a dowry.
Also, some great stuff about camels.
Truly interesting stuff.However, I HATED the ending.
I get that it is appropriate for Indian culture and custom, but I was expecting more fight from Shabanu.
I was expecting more spit and vinegar from what I thought was a smart girl.
Suzanne Fisher Staples writes with moving compassion and total respect for her Pakistani characters, not holding up their behavior to American cultural standards, but rather recognizing that the way society works in the Middle East is very different.
The trouble could hardly be called Shabanu's fault, but in Pakistani culture these matters are viewed so differently than in America, and it can be very easy for a young girl to be saddled with the blame when well-laid plans go awry and her family's future is placed in major jeopardy.
It was a coming-of-age story that was a little bit slow-paced at times but overall enjoyable, and the glimpses of culture were very interesting.I think my favorite part of this book was the ending.
She changed, she grew up, and she became the kind of person I'd been wanting her to become the whole time I was reading, and it just left me with this nice warm feeling.I'm not planning on reading the second and third books--I just don't feel like I need to.
It taught me a few things about Islamic culture (though of course personally I would have loved to have seen more) and I really did end up loving Shabanu and how she grew throughout the story.
Once they finally got to the story, it was difficult mainly because here was this bright and intelligent and promising 11 year old girl getting sold off to a 50 year old man who was in love with her, to be his fourth wife, so her older sister could marry the man Shabanu had originally been meant to marry.
At that point, it wasn't even the ages, because that's the culture, but that Shabanu had to be sacrificed when Phuban, her flighty 13 year old sister, would have been better suited to this life of wealth.
Like, they keep saying that Shabanu will be the youngest wife by 20 years.
But in the sequel, it's only 8 years.
An honest portrayal of the life of a young nomad teenage girl in Pakistan. The traditions and emotional conflicts are insightful. However, some of the descriptions of the setting were too detailed for my eye, knowing the culture well; but would be exotic and fascinating to any reader not familiar with the setting. Its heartbreaking, but also has a positive beat to it, as a young girl prepares herself to enter a forced marriage. Wants me wanna read the sequel: Haveli.
kinda feel like this was not appropriate for the intended age range, and also..... you should maybe not write a novel whose primarily purpose is social critique of a society you don't belong to? just my opinion
Shabanu is a young girl growing up in the deserts of Pakistan. She loves her freedom which most girls in her culture aren't allowed. She also loves her father's camels. As she approaches womanhood she learns the difficulties that life brings.
It was so weird
It is a current picture of present day life in parts of Pakistan, and we learn a great deal about the culture, the hardships, and the survival skills of a Cholistani family.
In fact, so much time is spent drawing a picture of Shabanu's life before "the wedding" that when the conflict finally presents itself the reader is riveted to the page to see what will happen to Shabanu, to learn who she will become.This book provides a rare glimpse into a different, though contemporary world.
Unfortunately, it doesn't eliminate any of the stereotypes about the "backwardness" of Middle Eastern families or the "mysogynist" interpretations of Muslim culture.
This is the story of a young nomadic girl from the Cholistan Desert on the Pakistan side of the India-Pakistan border.
The marriage of a girl of 13 as standard practice comes across as a fact of life, and I enjoyed the description of the nearly year-long preparation for Phulan’s wedding.
I loved that.The book was written in 1989 so I wonder what has changed and if the same nomadic life still exists and if and how the role of woman has changed.
This book won a Newbery Award?!?!
Second, this won an award for CHILDREN'S literature?
What children are reading this?
I wouldn't give this to children!
That being said, I did NOT enjoy this book.
I don't have the book in front of me) really won my heart.
That's why I gave this two stars and not one, but those are the only nice things I can say about this book.I was considering it for my Childhood Lost unit, and it would have been a good fit, I just couldn't imagine making my students read it.
Shabanu is the story of a desert family and their struggles to endure life in an arid, dangerous world.
Shabanu and her sister Phulan have reached the ripe age where they can now be married to men, but their marriages are pre-arranged.
Most of the story focuses on Phulan's upcoming marriage, all the while suriving the challanges of the desert.
She faces a difficult decision, between one that tears away her freedom, and the other that provides her and her family safety and security for the rest of their lives.This is a great book to have students read in order to expose them to vastly different cultures than our own.
12-year old Shabanu lives with her parents and sister in the Cholistan Desert of Pakistan, where her father raises camels.
She and her older sister, Phulan, are eagerly anticipating their upcoming marriages.
However, their futures are drastically altered when an incident with a "Wealthy and powerful landowner" causes the death of Phulans' fiancee.I thought this was a really good book.
Shabanu and Phulan are actually happy about their marriages, and that they'll get to stay close to one another, until Phulan's fiancee dies and the situation changes.
Dawn StatesMulticultural Shabanu is a young desert girl growing up in a culture where to disobey the rules of her family is a dangerous thing to do.
She is a spirited and intelligent teenager struggling to keep these qualities and still do what is expected of her from her family.
Their marriages are already arranged, but when things go terribly wrong Shabanu is the one to make the sacrifices.
The lesson here is doing something that is difficult, but still finding a way to keep your spirit.
This book was very moving, and I found great beauty and sadness in the lyrical way the novel moved.
The story builds at a snails pace with details about desert life and Muslim culture. Just when the plot shows potential it abruptly ends. The author attempts to portray Shabanu as a strong willed young girl hence the subtitle Daughter of the Wind but instead Shabanu reads like a very typical Western teenager superimposed into the desert and the very non-Western Muslim culture. Not worth my time or yours for that matter.
When I read this book i cried my eyes out. This was a amazing book. It was sad becuase I thought it was wrong for what the father did to his own BLOOD daughter!!!!! And even though her sister loves her I thought what she did was wrong. Shabanu was a great character she was full of life and an amazing person. I recomend this book to people who are adventurous but not to people who have weak hearts.
I read this when I was ten or eleven, all I remember was her comparing her plum sized boobs to her sister's mangos... in all realness though, this book is rife with "eastern girl in uncivilized east with western attitude battling for her life" which is all too real sometimes but fails in Shabanu at the hands of an elderly white woman.
Boring, boring, boring, boring, boring, boring piece of crap.
I love how this novel shows coming-of-age in a very different light from the typical American ideal.
But sometimes she can be just a bit too descriptive when it comes to unimportant events that do not add to the storyline or character development.
I'd wish she spent just a bit more time recalling past events in the life of Shabanu and her family.
The reader is flooded with emotion when Shabanu comes to terms with the fact she must marry a man decades older than her, even though they most likely have never been in that position.
But there is also a great deal of situations that are relatable for any young teenage girl.
This book is a wonderful journey into the life of Shabanu, a twelve-year-old girl who lives with her nomadic family in the Cholistan desert, Pakistan.
The book has detailed descriptions of the life and culture of Pakistan.
I am writing this reflection from the point of view of a person who does not know what it means to live in the Cholistan desert.
I don’t know what it means to fight desert storms and hunger.
I don’t know what it means to have a family that ask you to marry an older man.
This took a while to draw me in, although I did care about Shabanu and what happened to her right from the beginning.
I was more and more drawn in as the story progressed, especially when things happened that I wasn't expecting or predicting.
I could tell she had really witnessed some of the events in the story.
Now I need to read Haveli and find out what happens next in Shabanu's life!I think this is for a bit older reader than many of the Newbery winners, and is more of a young adult book than a children's book.
I was so excited to see a book written about a girl from the Cholistan Desert in Pakistan.I so seldom see anything written about the nomadic and other tribal people groups in Pakistan and it was exciting.
I was disappointed by the details.
it was obvious that the author had listen to many stories from women and perhaps even visited some of the locations from the book and done her research but it was obvious that she was interpreting the stories and the facts from a western lens of someone who had never acutally experienced any of the things that happened.
This story was a deep and real read, a book that I wouldn't suggest to people under 13, but a good read never the less. Shabanu's struggle with life real applies pressure to the fact that not everyone has a perfect life, and there are people out there less fortunate than us that go through tough times nearly every day. I found it to be a challenging read, but only because it contains frases that are in a different language. Other than that, amazing read, definitely recommended.
