https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142460.Flashman_at_the_Charge
This is the first Flashman book i ever read, picked up at random in the school library. It lead me to the whole series.Having read them all I still think that this is the best one. I love the mix of history, caddishness and non PC - which is absolutely wonderful. It is certainly not highbrow literature, just a good rollicking read. Recommend to all.
As everybody knows, there are only two types of people in the world, those who share your sense of humour and those who don't.
I had expected this book to be funny, or at least humorous, and maybe it was a mistake reading it when I was sober, but in any case through reading this book I established that the author and I aren't kin by humour.It is divided into three awkward, distinct parts, staring with a plot sequence set during the Crimean War with Flashman taking part in the Charge of the Light Brigade.
The transition from the first part to the second is mildly plausible but the transition to the third part is bad with a genuine hero-wakes-up- in-a-dungeon-to-find-himself-imprisoned-with-useful-allies-who-conveniently- then-get-rescued scene.Neither serious nor demanding, this is a good rainy day novel.
FLASHMAN: NERVOUS FLATULENCE UNDER FIRE“Cannon to right of them,Cannon to left of them,Cannon behind them Volleyed and thundered;Stormed at with shot and shell,While horse and hero fell.They that had fought so wellCame through the jaws of Death,Back from the mouth of hell,All that was left of them, Left of six hundred.When can their glory fade?O the wild charge they made! All the world wondered.Honour the charge they made!Honour the Light Brigade, Noble six hundred!”- Taken from ‘The Charge of t
FLASHMAN: NERVOUS FLATULENCE UNDER FIRE“Cannon to right of them,Cannon to left of them,Cannon behind them Volleyed and thundered;Stormed at with shot and shell,While horse and hero fell.They that had fought so wellCame through the jaws of Death,Back from the mouth of hell,All that was left of them, Left of six hundred.When can their glory fade?O the wild charge they made!
I couldn't hold my horse at all; it was all I could do to stay aboard as we raced onwards, and as I stared wildly ahead I saw that we were a bare few hundred yards from the Russian batteries.
While personally I would put the first and third Flashman novels ahead of this one in pride of place, this is definitely one of the stronger entries in a series full of excellent books.Per the Flashman formula, the story starts with our hero (or anti-hero, if you will) trying desperately to avoid a dangerous situation, in this case the Crimean War. I thought this was one of the very best opening sections in the entire series, featuring a funny situation where Flashman’s bullying behavior results in a very appropriate comeuppance.
The particular charm of the first book was that he truly is a true scumbag, but ends up a hero because he's a member of an enterprise so corrupt, incompetent and immoral that lying, cheating, stealing, murdering, raping and betraying his way through it is a natural course of action.
You end up feeling sympathy neither for Flashman nor for the British Empire, but do gain a certain satisfaction from seeing them end up together, in a those-two-deserve-eachother sort of way.
Here, however, Flashman isn't nearly as despicable, and he mostly just comes off as the only sane man in the asylum.
It's not nearly as interesting.
From BBC Radio 4:Renowned cad Sir Harry Flashman is sent terrified to the frozen wastes of the Crimea. Riding onwards, cowardly cad Sir Harry Flashman must face the might of Imperial Russia.Stars Angus Wright and Joss Ackland.
Anyway, of Fraser's many virtues as a writer, I shan't comment -- they're well known.Instead, I'll talk a little about something more in my wheelhouse, which is how Fraser uses history.
Namely, he uses it very, very well.
I suppose that, as a Russian-American, I ought to be slightly offended at how Fraser talks about Russia, but his critiques are entirely just, and it's not as if Flashman isn't hilariously bigoted against every single color, creed, and country under the sun.Anyway, very fun book.
The continuing adventures of Harry Flashman in which he joins the charge of the Light Brigade and has adventures in Russia and Afghanistan. This novel (the fourth in the series) is definitely a contender for my favorite book thus far. Fast-paced and enjoyable even if I can't really recommend it in good moral conscience.
This is probably the best of the series so far, but I’ve been a bit disappointed with these books and no change here.This one starts quite slow, lots of build up in England to set up how Flash ends up in the Crimea.
I wanted to, I like anti-heroes, cads and dark humour (Terry-Thomas FTW!), and I’ve given him a bloody good go of it, but the writer’s so pleased with himself, both for his historical knowledge and his ‘daring’ to fly in the face of good taste, that I ended up more tired than amused.
However, he is not entirely without virtues - his total honesty about his own shortcomings and his ability to make present a cynical twist on just about every "heroic" event or person in British history make these books highly entertaining reading.This time the reluctant Flashy is dragged out of retirement to babysit a certain royal personage through the disastrous Crimean campaign, and resplendent in the pink breeches of Lord Cardigan's ill-fated Light Dragoons manages to take part in the "Charge of the Heavy Brigade" "The Thin Red Line" and the famous, ill-fated "Charge of the Light Brigade", while letting off gigantic farts the whole time.

OK, I'm going to stop protesting about how disturbed I am by Flashman and all of his terrible, terrible behavior, because obviously something is keeping me reading the series.
I can't tell if Fraser has toned down Flashman's terribleness, or if I'm just getting used to him.
Flashman at the Charge finds our (anti-)hero in the Crimean war and eventually at the battle immortalized in Tennyson's The Charge of the Light Brigade.
And when I say immortalized, you know of course that I mean I'd heard of the poem and assumed it referred to a battle, but had never read the whole thing nor really knew that much about that whole war, so if nothing else these books are getting me somewhat educated.
It was PG Wodehouse who likened his first reading of Flashman to Keats' experience of reading Homer in Chapman's translation, although I can safely say that Flashy is unlikely to ever hold his silence, even on a peak in Darien - he'd be looking for a likely woman or an escape route.
The whole point of Flashman is that, despite his being a cad, a bounder, a coward and a cheat, yet, in the madness of the Crimean War, his cowardice takes on a certain honesty.
Flashman at the Charge is the fourth book in the Flashman series.
This time he takes part in the Crimean War including the battle of Balaclava, gets captured and spends time as a prisoner in Russia and gets dragged along through Central Asia for a failed Russian invasion of British India, they never get farther than Tajikistan.
I’m a bit split about this book, I found the retelling of the battle of Balaclava to be mostly confusing and hard to follow, yet I loved the later parts of the book where Flashman describes and comments on Russian society and especially Russian serfdom.
One of the most magnificent cad/bounder scenes in literary history takes place during an "escape by sleigh" scene. Bravissimo, you despicable wretch!And, as always for the Flashman books, a very well drawn look at a place and time: Russia, in this case. Additional goodness: the Charge of the Light Brigade section was quite thrilling. It's hard to adequately portray chaos in prose, but this was well done. My favorite Flashman book to date (I've read the 1st four).
Harry Flashman turns up in Balaclava and get himself mixed up in the Charge of the Light Brigade! Another excellent blend of humor and history. These books are the greatest!
You either love Flashie or you don't. If you do, this one is excellent. Wide-ranging and never dull.
Approaching my Russian reading from an unusual but no less entertaining angle, this time it's the turn of the one and only Flashman to stampede through the vast and benighted lands of Mother Russia.
Coming to the book itself, I'm halfway done and already Flashman has ridden through the Valley of Death in the company of the Light Brigade, reluctantly taking part in the most famous cavalry charge in history.
GMF's research is, as always, impeccable and I for one am grateful to him for shedding light on this aspect of Russian society and history that seems to get short shrift pretty much everywhere else.
Just re-read this book thirty years after first enjoying it.
In this adventure our roguish narrator accidentally leads the charge of the Light Brigade, experiences the joys of Tsarist Russia and amazingly leads a daring rebel raid (it's a long story...) Of course he finds time for gambling, rubbing shoulders with royalty and rumpy-pumpy galore.Amid the fun there's the usual excellent historical detail.
These books are a sheer joy & will outlive nondescript 'literary' efforts ("Booker prize winning" is usually shorthand for "pretentious anodyne pap").
They should be set reading for students of the nineteenth century.
Originally published on my blog here in January 2000.The fourth Flashman novel tells of his involvement in the Crimean War, with the Charge of the Light Brigade as its centrepiece. Great play is made on the contrast between Tennyson's heroic poem and Flashman on the back cover ("Was there a man dismay'd? Yes, one - Flashman"). It is one of the most fun of the series, though it does have a darker side in the stupidity of the commanders at Balaclava and the Russian brutality towards their serfs.
Enjoyable, although after reading the first four Flashman books in a relatively short time (this book being the 4th), I'm starting to find them very formulaic. The things one learns from reading George MacDonald Fraser's Flashman books (History, for one thing) make up for the same, repetitive narrative structure employed from book to book. But hey, if the books keep selling, why should the author mess with a good thing? Case in point: I'll read at least the next volume of the series: Flashman in the Great Game.
If I could give it six stars - I would.These books are perfect - hilarious, thrilling, entertaing and educational. And despite - or maybe because of Flashman's flaws - a real humanitarian message.Parts of the book - such as the charge itself and the mad flee from captivity have you holding your breathe. The end is thrilling, with Flashman not acting as his normal self and being all heroric and this is explained very nicely, which despite the non pc nature of these books has an inredibly strong female lead at the end.Wonderful stuff - best fiction I have read.
From the book:"The camp ground was littered with spent shot and rubbish and broken gear among the pools of congealed blood -- my stars, wouldn't I just like to take one of our Ministers, or street-corner orators, or blood-lusting, breakfast-scoffing papas, over such a place as the Alma hills -- not to let him see, because he'd just tut-tut and look anguished and have a good pray and not care a damn -- but to shoot him in the belly with a soft-nosed bullet and let him die screaming where he belonged. That's all they deserve."
One of the best Flashmans I've read. The charge of the Light Brigade, Russia, Afghanistan, bandits, and nefarious plots. Flashy is up to his neck, trying to survive, ready to betray anyone, surrender anything, doublecross anyone to save his own hide - and he still ends up a hero. Astonishingly well researched, these books are a mile of fun.
As usual, pitch perfect recreation of the 19th century - this one spiced by a sojourn at a Hetman's country house, and a hilariously bad-mannered escape by sleigh, with cossacks in pursuit. The military stuff - down to Flashman's involvement in three major engagements in one day, including the Charge of the Light Brigade - is stupendous.
Can't go wrong with the Flashman Chronicles. Comedy, suspense and historical knowledge all in one read.
More boyish and more English than James Bond, Flashman is a public school boy romp through history and war complete with guns, battles, impossibly attractive and exotic women and its fair share of toilet humour.
Flashman escapes all harm, keeps his stubborn refusal to be a willing hero intact and yet emerges as the handsome, sexually rewarded savior of the British Empire.In this episode, the historical setting is the Crimean War, with the opening set piece being the charge of the Light Brigade.
But if you take the humour and the rollocking adventures lightly you might just find yourself laughing out loud as Flashman gallops and farts through one of the most famous cavalry charges in history.
I bought the book decades ago.
George Macdonald Fraser was a well-educated gentleman who as I recall, was in the Border Regiment, 17th Infantry Division.
Fraser wrote the screenplay for 'The Three Musketeers,' which starred Michael York, Oliver Reed, Raquel Welch, Richard Chamberlain, and other fine actors.
But the whole thing made a big impression on me, to the extent that I can visualize the cover of my copy, (no longer extant.) You could say Fraser is one of the reasons why I wanted to write in the first place.
He showed me that a very good history book could be fun as well.
Bettie's Books
this one is one to the best!
