https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147843.Green_Rider
Karigan decides she will do this, she puts on his pendant and cloak and gets on his horse, which has a mind of his own.
Sounds Hansel and Gretelish but it's not :) The Berry sisters are really cool and have a lot of magical stuff in their house.
The pendant of the Green Rider has magic as well and Karigan can make herself and the horse invisible!
This is a really good book with a lot of evilness, fighting, magic, creatures, and sneaky little jerks all over the place.
My younger daughter had recently run out of Tamora Pierce books.
She asked if she could try Green Rider and I said, "Sure, let me know what you think of it, and then I'll read it."So off she went with it.
And it went to camp with her, as her read.
Her love and theirs for this book was so extreme, I could never get my hands on it.
This is an excellent book, with a strong heroine and compelling adventure.
Get Green Rider, and read it first.
Before you let even your daughter borrow it!
In fact I had to compare the publication dates of these two books; Mercedes Lackey won.
Needless to say, there are plenty of people on the road doing the best helping the heroine as well as others trying to do their worst to stop her by any means possible.
The lives are endangered on the road - brigands, wild animals and the said evil keep vigilance; some of the nobles are known to kill them for bringing bad news (I guess they never hear the expression "Don't shoot the messenger").
Young heroine, special horses, magical abilities, messengers for the king.
Wow, sounds familiar--Talia--young heroine, special horses--companions, magical abilities--mind magic, messengers for the king--heralds act as messengers.
But that's where the similarities end unless you want to add good writing, characterization, and plot to the mix.The world is interesting.
The writing is so good that eventually the main character's suspension from school is tied into the main plot.
Also, the king's guards--the Weapons are fascinating, and her use of the supernatural is fairly unique as well.If you like Lackey, you'll like this book (and its sequel).
A 4.5 stars book - if you want a Tolkien feeling, a young and mature female strong lead (and plenty other interesting characters), a lonely quest leading to an epic conclusion of the book.I could not have had a better time reading through this book!
I’ve had this series on my shelves for YEARS.
It was one of the few I was incredibly excited to start, which makes it all the more disappointing that I didn’t like it.
At one point, I was more than halfway through the book and still couldn’t see any purpose behind the scenes and kept wanting the story to get back to the inciting moment at the beginning.
I’m really bummed I didn’t like Green Rider, especially since my cousins really loved it.
I’m unfortunately abandoning the series from here.Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.com Other books you might like:
Not good. Mary Sue main. EVERYTHING revolves around this girl. Which can be okay as a device if the author handles it right. This one didn't. *sigh* The overall story also suffers from a common problem in fantasy world-building: TOO MUCH. If magic horses and riders aren't enough for the tired old the-throne-is-threatened-oh-no-must-save-it! trope, add bad elves, ancient magics, rich men who mysteriously fall for the heroine, shadowy bad guys, Disney-esque old ladies in isolated magical mansions and too-helpful ghosts to the mix.Has Horse though. Liked The Horse. Not enough to keep reading it, but The Horse was cool.
Every now and then a book comes along that changes your life. That isn't this book. But sometimes while you're waiting for that book, you come across a book that was entertaining and really good fun. That's this book.
The only problem is, the constant LOTR references led me to compulsorily compare this book to its older, more experienced, more complex, better grandfather.
There are plenty of good characters in this story – Jendara the embittered mercenary, or Captain Mapstone the scarred Green Rider who has survived against all odds – just for a couple of examples.
If I had to see her stamp her foot and say, “I’m NOT a Green Rider!” like a five year old one more time, I would have given up.
Karigan G'ladheon is fleeing from her school, where she has just been suspended, to her home, but along the way she encounters a dying Green Rider.
The Green Riders are the King's elite messenger service and with his dying breath the man manages to convince Karigan that she must complete his mission and deliver the message he is carrying to the King.
She agrees and is soon fleeing the very assassins that shot the Green Rider.
The world was a fairly interesting one as Karigan's own mission is set in the backdrop of political unrest in the kingdom of Sacoridia.
I was not sure what to expect from this book, as the author was new to me and the title didn't quite grab my attention, even though it reminded me of those very old fantasy books which are normally solid bets.
In a way, I guess that I wasn't wrong about the old school feeling, as this is a very classic fantasy story and gave off a Tolkienesque vibe.
So, classic fantasy - you know what to expect then.
Character-wise there is the expected divide between good and evil with a couple of fantasy staples (elves!) making appearances.
Overall a satisfying read and once again a very good debut book.
Just enough world building to pique the interest, with a lot of the usual fantasy tropes bobbing to the surface (ancient wars, forgotten magic, elite bodyguards, aloof faeries/elves hidden in the forests, etc) but other details that make it uniquely its own.
The world building is not so overwhelming that is swamps the action or waters down the characters too much.
The plot that she must foil is wonderfully real: it deals with real people trying to advance their own agendas, and there is only brief mentions of some kind of ancient evil lurking on the fringes of humanity.
The other characters are sympathetic and well constructed, with only a light patina of cliche.
This is a skill that many writers try to employ, but never really succeed very well at.Britain is very good with creating a dark and creepy atmosphere through most of Karigan's adventures, and has a clever eye for irony.
What I'm saying is that Karigan is a character type often called either a Blank Slate, or an Every(wo)man.
He was able to think or talk his way out of a lot of bad situations, and he had his friend Sam there to lean on when things got rough and he needed a helping hand.
This is a mainly character driven book.
The "courier" is in fact an interesting historical character in "his or her" own right.
Of course what I mention above is the "ideal" in reality a lot of messengers didn't actually manage to make it to their assigned destination....Placed in a fantasy world and given a more pivotal role in the operation and indeed the survival of the kingdom an absorbing story emerges.
Leaving "school" in "disgrace" after besting an aristocrat (apparently shamed by her expulsion) Karigan G'ladheon travels into Green Cloak Forest and encounters dying Green Rider (an elite messenger in the King's service).
Author borrows from Tolkien and maybe other HF authors but her imagination is limited. I skimmed quite a bit esp. in the second half and won't be continuing the series.Rating: A higher 3, say 3.65 stars.
Another of those "I picked it up because of the cover" (lovely artwork by the late Keith Parkinson!) that was a reward for adventurousness -- Enjoyed this book I've had to buy 4 copies because I need to spread the wealth :-)I tend to send books to my sister and niece, plus I've been known to waylay strangers in the bookstore if they venture down the F/SF aisle (or the horror aisle). 12/20/1998re-read 8/18/2003
Wow! is really coming up to to 20th anniversary of this book.It is one best American fantasy's that I have read.I awarded it The Tolkien Award an award that I do NOT give out very often this so, so,good about postal service.Sounds boreing but it isnt
I grew tired of her denial: “I’m NOT a Green Rider!" Hopefully, that inner-struggle won't continue for long in book 2.Karigan as heroine wasn't quite a Mary Sue. She suffered.
Having said that, I liked how Karigan learned to wield a sword like a master, with help from an unexpected source (but her transformation occurred perhaps too quickly).Many of the scenes in the first half of the book would have been more heartfelt if Karigan had a comrade at her side (and not just a ghost).
I compare this with the solid respect the King's Rangers (similar to Green Riders) receive in Flanagan's series, beginning with The Ruins of Gorlan.I see that the sequels are quite long, upwards of 650 pages.
Green Rider by Kristen Britain***3.4***I was kind of disappointed by the book this time around.
While the second half of the book was pretty good, the first half was basically a huge info dump while the protagonist made her way to the real story.
The concept behind the book is fun and the world is interesting enough though poorly developed at first (all by info dump).
However when I found out that there were four books out in the series I figured I should try it again.The second time around it was just as fun.
Green Rider starts out rough.
For starters, it has a blurb from Terry Goodkind on the cover and an acknowledgement to him.
Back in 1998 when this book was first published, I'm sure it seemed like a great marketing decision.
Now maybe not so much.In the first half of the book, Karigan, the protagonist, is really irritating.
But it's rough to read about someone whining all the time.
Thankfully, she gets her shit together, figuratively speaking, and the plot coalesces and Karigan becomes likable.
Green Rider stands on its own quite well, but it's worth continuing the series because the books get much better.
Upon reading the book I was rather pleased with the result.
A nice novel with adventure, magic, and intrigue it remains a book I read over and over again.The story begins with Karigan running away from school.
However, she runs into a dying Green Rider with a life and death message for the King.
As she swears to deliver the message, he warns her to beware the Shadow Rider.
In a world with kings, elves, and monstrous creatures emerging from a breach in the Wall, this book manages to step outside of the typical cliche fantasy without losing it's heritage.
All in all, it was a great read.
An excellent page-turning series starter. It's essentially non-stop action from beginning to end. A perfect book for folks new to Fantasy or old hands like myself. At times it strays towards cheesy but rights itself quickly. It's a more than less self-contained stand alone with a few over-arching dangling plot threads to lead into the next novel. A terrific cast of characters that I look forward to reading again. I would highly recommend it to all of my Fantasy reading friends.
I've read this book so many times, my copy is starting to come apart. I absolutely LOVE it. The main character Karigan is so believable, I can relate easily to her, and I know that most people would feel the same. The story is very original and engaging. It's definitely a must read for any fantasy book fan.
The name makes me think bugs, but they were supposedly carrying shields at one point, so I was more than a little bit confused.Amilton was stereotype-evil without reason, which annoyed me.
She intrigued me as a character, and I would have liked to see that aspect of her.Short notes-Is it just me, or is Karigan being set up to have to make the CHOICE BETWEEN MENZ?Mapstone and Stevic?
Is this going to happen, or am I reading too much into it?BERYL is awesome.Eletians are stereotypical elves, which was a bit annoying.Villains are DUMB.
I'm glad I did!This is a fairly standard fantasy work in a lot of ways: Karigan is practically shoved into the role of heroine when circumstances lead her to come across a man, dying with two black arrows in his back, who pleads with her to carry his urgent message to the king.
My bottom line is that it was a very engaging fantasy, an entertaining read, and just enough of the right elements to make it a good story.
This book started out wonderfully (well okay, I've never been a big fan of watching the bad guy rub his hands gleefully while doing evil deeds as a prologue, but the magic was interesting!).
We get thrown into the action almost from the word go with the main character, Karigan, runs across the path of a dying messenger and taking up his mission.
The Berry sisters (Bunch and Bay Berry, and if you think that's funny, try listening to that pun 50 times in four chapters...) had to be evil.
runs off and leaves the horse to fend for itself.
I got about 1/6 of the way through & couldn't take it any more. The narration was good & I liked the horse, but other than that it was pretty awful. Too many details were poorly done, obviously for the convenience of the story. (Her wrists are burned but not her hands, clothes, or any other part?) The dialogue was awful & the characterization childish.
I usually like adventure fantasies, but this book was just all over the damn place. There are plenty of books in which this is well done, I didn't feel like this was one of them. The adventures felt forced, and I didn't enjoy reading any of them. I finished the book, but I skimmed through most of it because I just wanted to know what happened in the end. I kind of want to read the subsequent novels, but this is not a good start.
I'm doing more writing than reading these days and this book was na nice way to relax in between. Solid but not distracting. I'll continue the series.
I liked it. It reminded me of Tamora Pierce's novels actually: the heroine is a strong female called to do some great deed, there's a sprig of romance (not a main theme but it's not minor either), has the perfect blend of fantasy and adventure and keeps its readers turning the pages. All in all, it was wonderful.
