https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/900949.Zen_and_Japanese_Culture
http://izumen.blogspot.bg/2016/01/blo...Дзен се интересува преди всичко от интуитивната реакция, а не от логиката и аналитичното. Тази интуитивност е неразривно свързана с японското разбиране за религия, изкуство и метафизика. Не чрез разсъдък, а чрез действие и хармония, човек достига най-висшите нива на просветление. От този идеал се е формирало художественото чувство у японците. Минималистичните рисунки, които са включени в богатото приложение, свидетелстват за това. С резки и сигурни движения на четката, художникът очертава лодка в морето. Празният фон отзад е всичко. Едното е част от всичко и всичко се крие в едното. http://izumen.blogspot.bg/2016/01/blo...
Tesshin, full of confidence, tried to knock the Zen master down with one blow of his stick.
Whoever has traveled through Japan must have seen the picture of a monk in his traveling suit, all alone, looking at Mount Fuji.
256)Love of Nature The famous Nirvana picture of the Tofukuji Zen monastery, at Kyoto, was painted by one of its monks, Cho Densu (1352-1431), one of the greatest painters of Japan.
One more thing, I found his generous footnotes printed below innumerable pages helpful and delightful to read each topic and better understand.
Love is the essence of humanity, love needs something to bestow itself upon; human beings must live together in order to lead a life of love.p10: Satori must be the outgrowth of one's inner life and not a verbal implantation brought from the outside.p13: (Tenno Dogo) "If you want to see, see right at once.
Zen always upholds its experience as such and refuses to commit itself to any system of philosophy.p50: But as a social being man cannot remain content with mere experience; he wants to communicate it to his fellow beings - which means that intuition is to have its contents, its ideas, its intellectual reconstruction.
D.T. Suzuki is definitive of writing on Zen, so if you want to know about it on a conceptual level (not that that's possible), then Suzuki's the man. This book in particular is good to read if you want to understand Japanese culture as well.
Oddly, I feel like I really enjoyed this book, despite the fact that it was quite difficult to read and I’m still fairly confused about the role of Zen in Japanese culture.
I suspect that Suzuki may have intended this as his goal doesn’t seem to be understanding but rather discussion.
His explanation of Zen largely boils down to the fact that Zen cannot be explained as it is individual and must be experienced, therefore he gives many examples of Zen from Japanese history in the hopes that we catch a glance of its shape.
PS - It took me a year to read this book 😳
Suzuki explains the foundations of the art form in a way that helps a westerner more fully appreciate it (although I suspect to completely appreciate it one needs to read older haiku in their native Japanese).
The two certainly represent the contrast between Suzuki's traditional Eastern Zen, and Joko Beck's modern, more pragmatic Western Zen. Together they are a brilliant example of how the same fundamental truths can be expressed through different lenses.I would be remiss if I didn't mention a hint of ethnocentrism that runs through the book.
Anyone interested in Zen shouldn't miss this book.
I prefer this book rather than "Introduction to Zen Buddhism," also by the same author.
May be because it gives many real-life examples into Japanese culture that I can easily picture along because I can relate to.
Read it even if you don't really want to know about Zen. It could make you a more understanding person in general simply because you know why this is this and that is that.
It instantly gives you peace of mind!
Not the good option to read for beginners in zen buddhism philosophy, but alluring option for people who already "practice" zen in daily life.
Especially, I'd consider this book as a must-read for artists interested in Eastern cultures and their influence in modern art.
I found this book when I was searching for Suzuki's books and eventually chose this one from my temptation to find out more about samurais and what is the philosophy behind this culture.
Some parts of the book refer to Chinese Confucianist culture influence on Japanese zen and how a secluded land of Japan developed its "own version" of buddhism by combining Indian and Chinese buddhism.
I found most interesting :Ch4 zen and Kendo (art of swordsmanship)Discusses the samurai spirit, the sword representing the elimination of all in the way, others and self.
So, he explained that they carried two swords: a long one for combat and a short one for suicide!!
Goes on to talk about "Immovable intelligence" where art merges with zen, where life and death merge.Ch6 zen and Sado (art of tea)There is a saying that zen and tea are the same (茶禅一味）and he elaborates that both aim at simplification, and the 4 observances: harmony, reverence, purity, and tranquility (和敬清寂）Harmony = "gentleness of spirit" which he explains is to not contradict anyone.
Really appreciated Jaffe’s introduction, which points out some of the problematic angles of Daisetz’s book and discusses them in context.
The author himself admits to a fair bit of repetition, and this becomes obvious as the book progresses, but is not I think unusual for a book this size on Zen.I skipped the second Swordsmanship chapter (having read Takuan’s letters previously and being not that interested in swordsmanship itself) and didn’t bother with the final chapter on nature as Jaffe’s introduction made me think there wouldn’t be much in this segment for me.
This book took me soooo long to finish.
A couple of dry sections here and there, but it helped me understand Zen Buddhism in a way that I never understood it before.
Suzuki is clearly well-read in the Zen tradition, and the illustrations and explanations were helpful in understanding how Zen relates to Rikyu's tea ceremony, swordsmanship, Confucianism, nature, Haiku etc.
I did enjoy Suzuki's writing style a lot; With a topic as dense as Zen Buddhism, Suzuki never made me feel stupid at all.
He knows he is writing to beginners who have no understanding of Zen, and so the book was not hard to follow.
Not an easy read - found it rather laborious, especially in the 2nd half. The book, however, is full of gems (which I have copiously highlighted using a pen) about the art of Zen and life philosophies in general. But this one took a great deal of patience to finish cover to cover.
A long read, but for those into the intersection of Japanese culture and Zen Buddhism, this is a good book. A bit too long and repetitive at parts, its still a introspective, thoughtful, entertaining read...
This is really a curate's egg of a book. Parts of it are excellent, but I found much of it turgid and sections of the (lengthy) chapters on swordsmanship to be rather disturbing.
The Bible on Zen, a must read for those wanting to be a Samurai or Ninja
I came to this work because Suzuki's writings on Zen and Shin, particularly within a Japanese cultural context and understanding, have been universally lauded, and I had to get my friends from Japan off of my back.
I've had exchange students and Japanese ex-pats tell me time and time again that, in terms of understanding traditional spirituality and it's mingling with Buddhism in Japan, Suzuki is the author to go to.
Suzuki takes the time to delve into the actual spiritual practices that make up Zen Buddhism, and how they relate to cultural practices and traditions that deeply embedded in Japanese identity.
This is a masterpiece by Dr. Suzuki and a must read for any student of Zen, art or the martial arts.
I found the section directed to Zen and the Swordsman to be hands down the best and most authoritative treatment of the subject which confirmed things I've observed elsewhere.
One can study and learn all they want and become technically proficient artisans but they will never be an artist until they achieve Mushin; no-mind.
See my book titled; Mushin: the artist within the martial artist.I simply cannot say enough about how 100% correct Dr. Suzuki is on this topic.
This is a book I would highly recommend to anyone who ever stopped their pace just for moonlight, or anyone who ever pondered over a cup of tea, or anyone who enjoyed a stroll among bamboos or forest. It is so inspiring, yet so full of knowledge, it enlightens me about the seemed-like-familiar Japanese culture, and its deep connections with China through Zen and Buddhism. Wonderful reading! p.s. Suzuki isn't only about cars. xD
Not really much I can really say regarding this book, because the subject matter and the way it was delivered is so complicated.
In the spirit of Zen, I think I will keep it short and sharp.
The book was written in the 1930s, however the content and information within is as fresh as ever.
I found a strong resonence with certain chapters and no doubt will try incorporate some of these philosophies into my own path.Im looking forward to returning to the appendices section, but for now I think that I need a little bit of a break from Zen.
The language is simple and easy to understand. The pace is slow and even with numerous repetitions and explanations from original source materials. Warnings are given when particular points are likely to be misunderstood. Technical language is minimal and generally only introduced to clarify and illustrate particular examples. Additional source materials in the appendix are especially helpful. Worth a patient read and multiple re-readings.
Questo libro é una raccolta di saggi su tutti quegli argomenti che hanno a che fare con lo zen e l'arte della spada, gli haiku, la cerimonia de té e cosí via. Non sono molto recenti e piú volte ci sono ripetizioni in quanto l'autore li ha scritti in tempi differenti e solo dopo li ha raccolti, ció non toglie che per chi sia interessato all'argomento resta il libro migliore che ho letto fino ad ora.
It's been more than a couple of years since i read this but I remember really liking it. It does a great job of opening eyes and minds to Japanese culture (and not just on a personal level, but a civilization level) and how it evolved over time. By the time I was done reading it I felt I had seen life through another set of eyes. What more could you ask from a book about the culture of another country?
Pernah baca buku ini di Perpustakaan Fakultas Sastra UI, tempatnya di koleksi langka. Isinya menjelaskan pengaruh Buddhisme sekte Zen dalam sendi2 kebudayaan Jepang, khususnya seni beladiri (bugei). Ilustrasi di dalamnya sgt menarik, tmsk di dalamnya jujutsu, ninjutsu, kenjutsu/kendo/iaido, sumo, kyudo, yari-jutsu, aikijutsu/aikido, karate-jutsu, dll.
Not a page turner, but worth a read if you want to get into the spirit of zen. Really repetitive, quite boring honestly. Besides, the author seems to have a goal of convincing the reader of how zen is superior to all other philosophies, religions and ways of life, which sometimes makes you feel uncomfortable. You have to bear in mind that is was written almost 100 years ago.
The second book that I read in the history of Zen after the four-volume appreciation of haiku by Suzuki's old English friend R.H. Blyth. A priceless entry point into the two horns of the title by a remarkable, gentle, and wise man.
This is a wicked, wicked book
the more I read this book, the more I love it
I first read this book as a college student many years ago. I've re-read it many, many times since then. It is one of those books that I would consider essential in studying Japanese culture.
Haven't managed to finish this huge tome on Japanese culture and Zen. But from what I've read so far, Suzuki offers a typically brilliant portrayal.
no dust cover
