https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57042.The_Faded_Sun_Trilogy
grim, dry, melancholy, frustrating, riveting, endearing, and tragic are all good words to describe this moving anti-epic.
now how about another: bromantic.grim: this trilogy is about a human and two members of an alien race known as the Mri, their long flight back to their homeworld and what they find there.
these tragedies are what happen to people like the Mri, in science fiction and in our own real world.moving: and yet ultimately this is not a depressing work.
and it is a story with flawed, real characters who will stay with me.anti-epic: do not expect sturm und drang.
Cherryh's mri and regul are two awesomely different species, the former mercenary fighters for the latter, who don't fight themselves, but really can't be trusted.
This is the true strength of the story as Cherryh tells it from the perspective of the mri.
How can they survive as a species without sacrificing who they are?Insert one human soldier who learns to bridge the gap between humans and mri (much like Cherryh's on-going Foreigner saga).The result is a three-book saga that tells the deep, personal story of a species in decline, a species betrayed, and a species true to themselves.
When taken together, the characters and story become more complex and small moments that might otherwise have little meaning become deeply insightful.So, the story: After forty-three years of galactic war, the regul have ceded the planet Kesrith to humanity and plan to withdraw peaceably.
Their shared concern is not unfounded; the mri have lost almost their entire population to a war not their own for a purpose no one quite understands.Two men, the first humans to arrive on Kesrith, attempt to unravel the shifting lines of mood and politics.
I was completely engaged while reading and thoroughly satisfied when I finished.
What more can you ask?The three species that dominate the story (mri, regul, and human) are each carefully drawn and distinct.
And yet we are drawn into their stories as completely as we are into the humans.
The mri learn more of their long-time companions even as we do.
Only the elee were not as fully realized and yet, for the purposes of the story, we knew enough.There was no time in this story when I felt I knew what was going to happen next, and yet, as the plot unfolded, it made perfect sense.A solid 10!
Cherryh manages to turn humans into the great Others, the exotic foreigners whom you struggle to understand.
I loved the way that humans struggle to understand why the mri would want to "harm" their own comrades in such a game.
The mri's explanations for their behavior are never without reference points to human culture--even their strict caste system creates hierarchies that mirror our own society.
Yet still, the great tragedy of the novel is how cultures misunderstand one another--in fact, the whole novel is a riveting diplomatic nightmare.Granted, Cherryh's story contains a classic trope: "going native." She breaks it, however, by disallowing the white hero to function as a savior to the natives, seducing one of their women in the process.
But all of these conventional tools of sci fi storytelling are subverted to tell an essentially introspective, interpersonal story, so if you go into this looking for space opera (as I initially did) you stand a good risk of being disappointed.On the other hand, if a meditative work on interpersonal relationships, introspection, and clashing cultures sounds intriguing to you, you might not be the kind of person who easily deals with complex plotting involving a decades-long war between humans and an alien race that turns on the finer points of xenomorphic physiology.
You care what happens to Niun and Duncan, you feel their emotions, you fear, cry, love, and laugh with them because Cherryh takes the time to let you into their hearts and minds.
Cherryh does a brilliant job in this book of describing and letting the reader into the cultures of both the mri and the regul.
I love the idea from this book that cultural identity is not just skin deep, but comes with a certain thought process and behavioral patterns - the fact that Duncan is mri is recognized both by the mri themselves, and by the regul - it is only the humans, set in their shallow ways, who refuse to see this change.
It took me so long to read this book I should be booted from Goodreads for being a disgrace to readers everywhere.
I went through 2 girlfriends, 2 Presidents and 3 holidays before I finished this book.This was elegantly written and contained truly original nothing-like-human alien races, 3 dimensional characters and fully developed relationships.
It was never  boring , I was always happy to read it but i never sucked me in for any length of time either.
Like the other Cherryh books I have read there was very little sunlight.
At times it felt like an SF account of a holocaust.
Whereas in other genres, there might be foils to the protagonist, in space opera, an alien species serves as a foil to all of humanity.So it is with The Faded Sun Trilogy, which tells the tale of three species:The Regul – giant slug-like creatures (basically, Jaba the Hutt), with eidetic memories and centuries-long lifespans, who hold almost no regard for the life of their genderless ‘younglings.’ They are hardly mobile and not at all when they get their gender and become adults.
This second novel, the best of the three by far, presents a deep psychological exploration of values and culture and the complicated relationships between people of different values and cultures, and the whole thing is so fascinating and convincing that I found myself contemplating the issues and questions involved in a personal way, even relating them to my own life, something not usual in my experience with this subgenre of science fiction.
If you can get through some of the superficial and rushed bits in that third book, the whole series does have significant pleasures to offer.
Better than Downbelow, Chanur, Morgaine, Merchanter, etc.If you've read Robert JordanThe Eye of the Worldimagine the Aiel as a space-faring force of mercenaries who, through treachery, and their own inflexibility, are all but wiped out.
Throw into the mix a special forces soldier who is determined to see the Mri survive, and you have Cherryh's story.The Mri and humans are physically very similar.
The Mri must also come to terms with who they are and what their race has done.
And change isn't easy.All in all, Cherryh is at her best in this story of two soldiers--deadly enemies--best of friends--trying to understand each other and avoid the genocide that everyone else seems so determined to complete.
I want to be a mri warrior
The introspection may actually make you pause, think, and reflect on the story at hand just as the characters themselves are doing and often times the characters are wrong about what they assume the hidden motives are of the other species.This is an anthropologic series that is kind of similar to the stuff Ursula K Le Guin writes in the fact that she juxtaposes different alien species.
By the third book the reader really has to think, as the author is not holding the reader’s hand as might be the case in other mainstream books and the political situation becomes considerably more complex.Going back to what I said about the author juxtaposing species, I find it really interesting comparing the difference between how the involved species think: humans, mri, and regul.
Because the first viewpoint character is mri, we get a particularly good view of this austere and honorable species.
What do you get when you continually remove the most intelligent members of the group from breeding?
Some individual humans bond with the nearly extinct mri, though, and the book is all about this tension between the three species.Regul are very different from us.
They're very intelligent and build really good technology, unlike the mri who mostly borrow their technology from others.
(It's actually all one book, though there is some resolution at the end of the first and second parts of the trilogy.) I like how it ended.
Writing: 3Story: 1Satisfaction: 0Cherryh is a good writer but the book moves soooo slowly.
There doesn't seem to be a driving intelligence behind most of the major actions which is weird because this is a political story.The book also seems to fall in a language trap.
The author replaces English words with the mri language and then repeats those words over and over, as if it's suddenly okay because it's not the English word.
It gets better as the book goes on but the first chapter with Niun, the mri warrior, is pretty terrible on this account.
I had a hard time overall with the Faded Sun. The mri are a fascinating species, but their existence and survivability in the face of a refusal to adapt and change confuses me.
I know it's a huge theme of the book, and it remains compelling all the way through, but on occasion I had a hard time suspending the disbelief.
It would seem to me, correctly or otherwise, that such a rigid and unyielding code of life would not lend itself to long-term survival.
Cherryh has a bit of a drier nature to her writing, but the story was definitely compelling enough to see all the way through.
It's been awhile since I've read any SyFy but Cherryh has always been able to spin such excellent tales that I hardly noticed the techno side of the story.
In fact swordsman and honor play as much of a role as starships.Strong development of alien cultures and characters; the misunderstanding, death and wars that are brought about by the ignorance of other's values and ways of thinking make this a gripping tale right to the end.
Suspenseful and imaginative if a bit technologically dated since it was written in 1978, but you won't notice that in the midst of the drama of species conflict.
IF TYPOS bother you DO NOT GET THE E-VERSION. THEY ARE FREQUENT.---They must have used an optical scanner because many of the 'nots' are translated as 'riots'. (squint your eyes and you can see how that can happen)Not going in afterwards and editing was *riot* the right thing for them to do.
I find over the years that Cherryh is an author that I continue to enjoy, read and reread. Still I found this series strangely unsettling. Cherryh's characters have a habit of living in your mind well past the "I read it and now I am moving on date", but this time around I find that I am haunted by what I did not know or understand about the main characters. Only Cherryh can write characters of whom I seem to know so little and yet am so greatly haunted and obsessed by.
I posit that it is like Dune in all the bad ways, and none of the good.Central to the book are the mri, an alien species of noble warriors.
The one human among the book's protagonists has not come to lead, but to serve the mri.
Well, I suppose I am expected to feel sympathy for the mri seeing as they are such noble people.
And maybe the humans too, who out of the goodness of their colonialist hearts decide that the mri deserve to survive after all.So, let's see: Boring plot, check.
Because then they were able to travel a lot further afield, fuelled by a sinpler, stronger source of cabohydrate.In some scholars minds, that had as much bearing on the intertribal wars that followed as the muskets did.In the same way, Duncan's arrival in their midst and his ability to adapt and learn their ways ultimately changed them.My only quibble was the introduction right before the end of the final book of a race that has been around all the time but doesn't get mentioned until they're needed to be.
Somehow it didn't hold my interest the way the Foreigner cycle does.Once again though, she's created a very interesting race of people, TWO races actually, though of course nobody likes the regul (very sluglike and simpering and unpleasant) and everybody loves the mri (tall, thin, graceful, VERY alien and quiet, with pointed ears...who couldn't like them?) though the mri don't make themselves easy to like, which saves them from being a race of Mary Sue's.
I really think that's half of what draws me to both Faded Sun and Foreigner.
I was so torn while reading this book and never once did I care about what would happen.
It was probably the most confusing first chapter I've ever read in a book.
I found myself wanting them to come up against a race better than them, that would say "Fuck you, you can't push us around," and that would be that and the tsi'mri just kill them all.
Sometimes you find yourself up until 2am reading a book because you just can't put it down and you must know how it ends.
And something your up until 2am reading because you just don't want to spend another day on this book.
This is what I'd call an intimate epic, if there was such a term; it's epic in scope, but the third-person limited viewpoint (though it shifts from character to character) enhances the action because you don't get all of it at once.
As a result of this, and the fact that we get shifting third-person limited viewpoints, we see the ramifications of that war from radically different perspectives.
In short, this is a great trilogy of stories for people interested in alien cultures, realistic world-building, and pretty good action that serves the plot rather than the other way around.
told in 3 parts (this hefty edition has all 3 books in one paperback), this is the tale of a mid-ranking human military operative and how he "goes native" and falls into the life of the alien race humans have recently conquered.
there's a lot of observations about the nature of humanity, cultural tolerance, and not taking things at face value; somehow it's all presented as part of the story instead of a lengthy stand on a soapbox.
like nearly all of her stories, it's an utterly meticulous exercise in world-building, with each physical and cultural detail of 3 alien races as rich in detail as that of humanity several hundred years hence.
THE FADED SUN is a wonderful story.
Strangely, this was my first introduction to Cherryh.
I was impressed so much that I am now on a quest to own her entire body of work.
The Faded Sun is so rich in plot, location, and prose that those traits alone would make it worth reading.
The story is exciting and full of wonder.
I am sure we have all read works in which we enjoyed the story but could have cared less about the characters.
This is not the case with Cherryh.
The characters come to life.
Truly an amazing work!
If humanity ever finds itself confronted with aliens, CJ Cherryh should be part of the welcoming (or otherwise) committee. The meeting of two intelligent species is clearly a theme close to her heart, and one that she comes back to again and again, with great effect. Reading this trilogy, I could see the seeds of the Foreigner books, but at the same time this is very much its own series, and a deeply deeply satisfying one. Wonderful human characters, brilliantly complex aliens, and a third book climax that took my breath away. Oh yes, and a stunning cover.
I decided to go back where C.J. Cherryh started. The Faded Sun Trilogy is her earliest work that I know of. I read this book with a growing sense of ill ease. Cherryh's writing is a creature of the Seventies. By the time I finished the book, I felt she was trying to guilt the reader if they were male and trying to make the reader feel ashamed to be human. I think I'm done reading Cherryh's works, except for reading my favorite book by her. This is not it.
1/25Eh. It turned out to be alright.If you cut out all the excess crap, it's a decent story with some intriguing ideas.I felt like Cherryh tried too hard to make this world believable. Essentially force feeding the reader to ingest the political dynamics, cultural and social structure of the 2 alien races in order to get through the story. This also slowed the story down to the point of confusion and disinterest.1/2/11So far, so fake.I'll eventually finish reading this.
I really like this series. The politics get to be too much, but that's normal for Cherryh. The four different species and alien worlds are very real. Great characters. Not everything is neatly resolved and it gives you things to think about.
