https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99894.The_Boys_from_Brazil
If you don't know it, please do not read the blurb on the book!In 1976, when The Boys From Brazil was published, the world was still very concerned with tracking down notorious Nazi criminals, many of whom had fled to South America.
It look very much as if Mengele was putting his theories of Eugenics into practice, and trying to "improve" the genetic quality of the human population.The viewpoint character in The Boys From Brazil is Yakov Liebermann, who is heavily based on the real life Nazi hunter, Simon Wiesenthal.
"Holy sh*tsnacks! Krieger's one of the boys from Brazil!"   Yes, once again I find myself reading a book as a result of an  Archer  reference (see also  Bartleby The Scrivener ). The premise (of the book, not of Archer) is that down in South America, the fugitive Dr. Mengele is sending out six men to kill 94 civil servants on precise dates in nine countries. Renowned Nazi-hunter, Yakov Liebermann receives a mysterious phone call from a twenty-something American boy who went down Brazil to inve
Krieger's one of the boys from Brazil!"
Renowned Nazi-hunter, Yakov Liebermann receives a mysterious phone call from a twenty-something American boy who went down Brazil to investigate and (no big spoiler here) is killed.
Despite knowing one of the big twists, courtesy of Malory Archer ((view spoiler)[If there's one thing I've learned in all my years as a spy master, it's that you keep your friends close, and
(hide spoiler)]), it was still a fun read with plenty of twists to keep me interested.
It certainly makes you think- what would a world be like with 94 of these mysterious boys out there...
Not having seen the film adaptation, the unusual plot was a complete surprise for me.The intrigue begins with a top secret meeting in a Japanese restaurant to initiate a killer of a mysterious project by 'the comrade organization'.
The important operation assigns six hitmen to dispose of 94 elderly civil servants (along with their secrets) scattered throughout the world, and they must die on the designated dates set forth by the still hunted Angel of Death.
When I was in Hebrew school, the teacher had us listen to the first chapter on audiobook, and promised to let us hear the rest. When he realized that the book had dialog such as "Fucking bitch, I'd like to cut her tits off," he reconsidered his plans.
Παρά τις αδιαμφισβήτητες, όμως, γενετικές ομοιότητες των παιδιών αυτών με τον δότη τους, για να εξελιχθούν όπως ο Χίτλερ (και να ηγεμονεύσουν, ενδεχομένως, στον αγώνα για την εγκαθίδρυση και την επικράτηση ενός Τέταρτου Ράιχ) απαραίτητο ήταν να βιώσουν αντίστοιχες επιρροές κι επιδράσεις: κι ο Άγγελος του Θανάτου είναι εκεί για να αναλάβει δράση και να διαφυλάξει τη μοίρα του λαού των Αρίων.
Ένα τέλος που, αν μη τι άλλο, άρμοζε πολύ περισσότερο στον διαβόητο εγκληματία από τον θάνατο που τελικά είχε (τρία χρόνια μετά την έκδοση των Παιδιών από τη Βραζιλία, ο Μένγκελε πέθανε κολυμπώντας, από εγκεφαλικό επεισόδιο, κατά τη διάρκεια των διακοπών του).
Μένγκελε λοιπόν, ετοιμάζει ένα σκοτεινό σχέδιο για την δημιουργία του 4ου Ράιχ μαζί με κάποια μέλη των Ες-Ες που έχουν γλυτώσει από την δίκη της Νυρεμβέργης και την καταδίκη.
Ο μοναδικός άνθρωπος που μπορέι να τον σταματήσει, και ο αδιαφιλονίκητος πρωταγωνιστής του βιβλίου είναι ο Γιάκομπ Λίμπερμαν.
Βιβλίο που διαβάζεται μονορούφι...4/5ΥΓ1: Υπάρχει και κινηματογραφική μεταφορά του βιβλίου, με τον ευφάνταστο τίτλο "Ανθρωποκυνηγητό σε 2 ηπείρους" με ένα σχεδόν μυθικό καστ πρωταγωνιστών όπως ο Λόρενς Ολιβιέ, ο Γκρέκορι Πεκ και ο Τζέιμς Μέισον...
Despite the age of this novel (40 years), it is still a great thriller.
He gradually pieces together the details of a terrible conspiracy to kill 94 men, all about 65 years old, around the world.
The conspiracy involves Nazis from World War II, who have escaped to South America.
There they are led by the incredibly evil Josef Mengele, who seeks to bring back a fourth Reich.This novel held me in its grip from the beginning to the very end.
He does a wonderful job bringing the book to life.
I read this book many years ago, one of my first mystery/thrillers beyond the classics. I recall being totally enthralled by the story, reading it during my subway commuting in NY. Since I hadn’t read the blurb (bought it because I was exploring new authors and so many other commuters were reading it), it was a fascinating journey with a unique premise. Lots of twists and I think it’s probably timeless.
One of my best assigned reads in high school (together with Patrick Süskind's Perfume: The Story of a Murderer). It drives home the futility of the "it can't happen here/again" philosophy. Economic despair & charismatic leadership offering easy solutions are a timeless strategy for dictatorial disaster.
"The Boys from Brazil" was one of those paperbacks that found its way into the ever growing collection of book boxes I moved from residence to my parent's home back to residence back to my parent's and then to my first bachelor apartment.
I opened "The Boys from Brazil" and read it from beginning to end.
When my wife came home I'd had this magical daylong escape that was entirely private.Amazing as it sounds I had not seen the movie and did not know what the book was about when I started with the first page.
So definitely better than just okay, but not so riveting that it was exceptional. The storyline was really rather engaging and prescient. But at times the plotting just involved two characters talking about unveiling the mystery of the storyline and was therefore kind of stale on the action end of things. Overall a solid read and I'd recommend it.
Kohler is calling from Brazil and claims he has a tape in which Dr. Josef Mengele, the "Angel of Death", has met with several members of the 'the comrade organization'.
Before he was killed Kohler told him the names of the countries where the 94 men lived and the date of the first killing.
Liebermann discovers that there were several deaths on that date that match what Kohler told him and begins to investigate further.What helps makes the story so intriguing is the why.
One minute the story centered around two characters in one location and in the next sentence you were reading about two different characters somewhere else.
মোটামুটি ভালই টানটান রুদধশবাস থরিলার। বইটা হাতে নিয়েছিলাম মূলত এঞজেল অফ ডেথ এর কথা পড়ে। নাৎসি বিভৎসতা ঠিক কতটা ভয়াবহ ছিল তার খুব ভাল উদাহরন এঞজেল অফ ডেথ ডকটর মযাঙগলে। মানুষের উপরে বিশেষত শিশুদের উপরে করা তার একসপেরিমেনট এর দুই একটা উদাহরন শুনলে অনেকেই রাতে ঠিক মত ঘুমাতে পারবেন না।নাৎসিরা হেরে যাবার পর অনেকের বিচার হয়েছে আবার অনেকেই পালিয়ে গিয়ে নতুন পরিচয়ে মানুষের মাঝে মিশে গিয়েছে। এঞজেল অফ ডেথ তাদেরই একজন। এইটুকু ঐতিহাসিক সতয।এই সতযটুকু দিয়ে লেখক বেশ উততেজনাপূরণ থরিলার লিখেছেন। যেখানে আছে এঞজেল
মোটামুটি ভালই টানটান রুদ্ধশ্বাস থ্রিলার। বইটা হাতে নিয়েছিলাম মূলত এঞ্জেল অফ ডেথ এর কথা পড়ে। নাৎসি বি
That aside, the story although pretty far-fetched (well, maybe not so far fetched in the modern world of cloning) still intrigues.
At the time it was written, many of the Nazis responsible for the atrocities were still living......hiding out or hiding in plain sight.
It made the story a part of living history at that time.
In the 21st century, the younger reader may not appreciate the intensity of the search for these criminals and will see the book as just a good thriller.
Regardless as to how you approach it, "The Boys From Brazil" is a good read.
An excellent reasonably quick read by author Ira Levin. I had previously watched the film many years ago and couldn't quite remember in detail but it did not stop my enjoyment at all. Ira Levin has written so many classic novels that have been turned into film blockbusters 'Stepford Wives' 'Rosemary's baby' and this is one more. An interesting plot and great descriptive writing that brings the book to life.
From that standpoint, I can forgive some of the fears expressed by characters in the book, which sounded a lot like arguments made in 2003 by people who should have known better.
Even though the book involved detailing places, characters and organizations with which I was unfamiliar, the story progressed smoothly and quickly; Levin’s writing style is comprehensive without impeding flow.
And despite the fact that I was only mildly sentient when the book was written, I’ll be damned if Levin didn’t write a fun, engaging, and slightly creepy, page-turner.
This book was about this:Just kidding, not really... But it had swastikas involved, I swear, and their asses got kicked. And it was well written and kind of scary, an improvisation on subject "What if?...". If you want to know what if what - go read it for yourself. Ira Levin is never disappointing when it comes to speculative fiction.
Some of these post-WW2 nazi crime books are classics. It’s a genre of its own. I imagine this was quite visionary in its time, the plot including cloning, which still is quite cutting-edge. Still, the genre feels dated. It’s a little sad, sort of. But I guess that’s how it always must be. Still worth your while to read this book, or at least watch the movie.
“Do you kill the Nazis when you catch them?” the boy asked.“No,” Liebermann said.“Why not?”“It’s against the law. Besides, it’s better to put them on trial. That way more people learn about them.”“Learn what?” The boy looked skeptical.“Who they were, what they did.”  Εδώ ο Nickolas the Kid τα λέει καλύτερα.
Short version: It's the 1970s and a bunch of Nazis who have been in hiding in Brazil decide the time has come to initiate a plan to start up the Fourth Reich and finally achieve Aryan supremacy.
Perhaps it was more chilling when it was first published but I think most people know the theories behind the plot are very much fiction.If you're in the mood for a good ol' romp with some naughty Nazis then The Boys From Brazil is for you!As a side note, I've only just discovered that the novel's "baddie", Dr Josef Mengele was actually the real physician in Auschwitz-Birkenau who earned himself the title "Angel of Death" due to his experiments on children and at the time of the novel's release was still in hiding.
A young journalist finds out about the plot and tries to contact a famous Jewish man, Yakov Liebermann.
Yakov Liebermann is famous for being a Nazi hunter and having written a book about key Nazi individuals responsible war atrocities and the Holocaust.
There are two major aspects about the book that make it interesting.
A third aspect is also interesting but that would be a major spoiler and is embedded in the motive behind the assassinations.Although the book is well written, this not what you would call a fast action or suspenseful story.
Holy smoke! This book was awesome! http://mimbrez.com/boys-brazil-ira-le...
It was a total surprise to me how much I enjoyed this book! It was a well written thriller with a good amount of suspense and interesting thought experiments to back it up. The somewhat predictable thus anticlimactic ending was slightly disappointing but I still totally recommend you read it! It made me really interested in learning more about Mengele as a person and I've already watched some documentaries on his life and experiments he performed on humans. The fact that he really existed made this book even better - despite his slightly absurd plans.
After seeing the movie I read the book.
But ,regardless of the low quality book binding, my parent's memberships gave me access to a vast number of mainstream novels from the seventies.
As it did for William Goldman's classic novel Marathon Man. It is now known that the so-called Fourth Reich in South America was just a scattered and weak "community" of war criminals hiding in fear (see the story of the real Joseph Mengele) and German ex-patriats singing Horst Wessel & Duetschland Uber Alles  over their beer and bratwurst while swapping war stories.
Like  Marathon Man  the novel has held up well.
Nazi Hunter Hounds Angel of Death "Four hundred thousand more to dieAngel of Death,Monarch to the kingdom of the dead,Sadistic surgeon of demise..."Slayer, Angel of Death, 1986.This thriller is set in 1974 as the fictional Ezra Lieberman, a Nazi hunter based loosely on Simon Wiesenthal, is contacted by a U.S. reporter on the beat in Brazil who just heard of a plan by Josef Mengele, the infamous "Angel of Death," to activate ODESSA (former SS members on the loose in South America) in order to ki
"Four hundred thousand more to dieAngel of Death,Monarch to the kingdom of the dead,Sadistic surgeon of demise..."Slayer, Angel of Death, 1986.This thriller is set in 1974 as the fictional Ezra Lieberman, a Nazi hunter based loosely on Simon Wiesenthal, is contacted by a U.S. reporter on the beat in Brazil who just heard of a plan by Josef Mengele, the infamous "Angel of Death," to activate ODESSA (former SS members on the loose in South America) in order to kill 94 men.
The chilling novel tracks Lieberman as he desperately tries to determine the link among the targeted men before more are killed (why does Mengele want these seemingly harmless men dead?) and attempts to track down Mengele.
Nazis have fled to Brazil, pursued by Jewish hunters...but the Nazis have a plans to retake the world!Okay. The twist is goofy. I won't spoil it if you don't know it, but I had to put the book down at that point for a "really?" or two. Aside from that, a fun read. Would have been a five if I hadn't rolled my eyes so hard.Recommend if you're okay with implausible adventures where nobody goes, "And you thought that would work how?" "AAHAHAHAHAHA! Madman!" and they really should.
I've never read of a more ludicrous plot than that of The Boys from Brazil: the heinous Dr. Mengele (director of the human experiments at Auschwitz) who at the time this novel was published was still alive and well somewhere in South America, devises a scheme to clone Hitler 94 times depositing the young Hitler's in various locations throughout the world in families that were similar to Hitler's own with the intention that at least one of the boys will subsequently grow up to become a new Hitler so to speak.
Besides being such a farfetched plot, the novel itself is an absolute privilege to read.
Very enjoyable fast-paced classic 1970s thriller. No objections to this one, at all. When looking through my collection for something in this genre, I first chose Marathon Man. That was a bad choice! This one is great, there are no offending stereotypes, just really, really bad Nazis.
Surreal and disturbing, The Boys from Brazil, written by the author of Rosemary's Baby, is an unforgettable book with an original storyline.
I read this book for a challenge. I'm not quite sure what I expected. I liked the first half better than the last half, and was appalled at the Y. J. D. assumption at the ending.
