https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/742811.Just_William
In the road there were puddles, and the sensation of walking through a puddle, as every boy knows, is a very pleasant one.
It was also fascinating to walk in mud, scraping it along with one's boots.Ah, boys will be boys, but there's probably never been a boy like William.
Join the fun as William charges admission to listen to his snoring aunt, uses blackmail to score two white rats, shows a baby the best day of his life and uses some of that crap they teach in school, otherwise known as grammar, to trick his father into allowing him to throw a party for 30 while his parents are away.
This is a stand-in for the whole Just William series by Richmal Crompton.
As with  Molesworth, these books are not only really, really funny, but also offer an insight into aspects of the British class system - the subtle distinctions, prejudices and interactions between the different strata of the middle classes (frankly, the working class and aristocrats are virtually absent here.)And all of this filtered through William's eyes, making perfectly normal social situations into mystifying, suspicious or simply hilarious experiences, with William also able to find the most improbable explanations for the most innocuous events.
I always thought - and still think - that Blyton had the edge because her stories focus on adventure whereas Crompton's WILLIAM stories are all about the humour.
Some of the more famous supporting faces don't appear in this initial volume - Hubert Lane and Violet Elizabeth Bott are missing, for instance - but the adventures fly by so quickly and so humorously (at times this reads like a children's version of SOME MOTHERS DO 'AVE EM) that they're not missed.When I read these at an early age, I hadn't realised that the book was made up of short stories, an anthology opposed to a novel.
Timing is everything. Squirt just happens to be a lot like a 3 yr. old version of William. My favorite bits were William's father shouting to his wife - "He's mad! He's mad, I tell you!" I know that feeling so well. The inner logic of a boy - utterly incomprehensible to the rest of us. So funny. Loved this book. The more I laugh at parenting, the better I feel.Thanks to Mumzie who pointed this book out to me. :)
William is a hilarious character and his adventures are vibrantly written, fast-paced and interesting. This is a great book for all ages and certainly worth reading.
Not the Antichrist, though I suspect that Violet Elizabeth Bott has her doubts.
Quite possibly the funniest books in children's literature.
William Brown is one of my favourite characters of all time.
The Just William books are collections of short stories chronicling the adventures and misadventures of eleven-year-old William Brown, who in the first books in the series lives in the 1920s.
William remains the same age as history progresses throughout the series, the embodiment of perpetual boyhood.
With his friends Douglas, Henry and Ginger (who all together are 'The Outlaws'), William is the scourge of his parents and grown up siblings Robert and Ethel, and most adults he comes into contact with, come to that.
Absolutely hilarious portrait of boyhood.
Classic, timeless tales of the incorrigible William. Read to my 8 and 10 year old, who loved it. Some very grown up language in these books (with regards to phrasing and vocabulary, not inappropriateness!), which is likely the main reason they are not still best sellers for 9-12 yo
Like all the best children's books, the William stories are just as enjoyable for adults, in fact sometimes more so.
Take this, from The May King in More William: "William was frankly bored.
School always bored him.
He disliked facts, and he disliked being tied down to detail, and he disliked answering questions.
One of the books has an introduction by Martin Jarvis who reads them on the audio version (I must remember to look out for those) and he said that often, as he was reading them, he was hooting with laughter.
When I finish a 1001 Children's Book You Must Read that is as wonderful as this book, I am happy to think I still have 408 more to read. William is a devil of a little boy, a Dennis the Menace, a Leave It to Beaver, a Henry Huggins. He drives his mother and father and sister and brother and aunt and cousin...everybody, in short, crazy with his antics.
First off in the version i read there seemed to be a chapter out of order, i would read the chapter titled 'Jumble' after 'The Show' for maximum making sense :) .There's nothing new under the sun.
In terms of old english characters while Billy Bunter is distinctly Eric Cartman, William Brown is very much Bart Simpson, (maybe a a tiny bit less evil though).
Its episodic fare nothing in the way of overarching story but the humour really doesn't age, its good stuff.
Not much else to say really, a little bit more personality for his brother and sister might have been nice but otherwise just solid ageless annoying child tales.
3.5*This book about 11-year-old William is good but suffered from the fact that I had recently read Booth Tarkington's "Penrod" (also about an 11-year-old boy). Crompton's stories were just not quite as humorous or as charming. However, perhaps a Brit might feel the reverse to be true. I also found it a bit odd that the final chapter was about finding Jumble when Jumble had played a significant role in the previous chapter and had been present in several of the earlier chapters as well.
Mightily amusing tales of the scrapes, trials, games, tribulations, and temptations of a young boy. Sometimes naughty, sometimes confused, sometimes thoughtless William is an endearing and frustrating little fellow. If he was real, he would be the most annoying child of anyone's acquaintance, but to read about him is good fun.
Slightly variable, which you might expect from a short story collection, but at their best these had me literally LOLing.
He's not evil, or bad or vindictive: he lives by a strong moral compass and acts to do good for those around him ....
Often his "bad deeds" are simply a boy wanting to do something good without thinking through the consequences (such as cutting every bloom from the family hot house in order to present his teacher with a bouquet).I am really interested in reading more from Richmal Crompton now.
I didn't read Just William as a child because I thought they would be too boyish, but having read and adored several of Richmal Crompton's adult books, I was more than intrigued by the series.
Just William is told almost in a series of short stories, all of which feature the mischievous eleven-year-old William Brown, along with various friends and family members.
A couple of the stories were familiar to me, so perhaps I had read those in anthologies.
Just William is an incredibly fun book, which feels fresh and not at all old-fashioned; it certainly still holds appeal.
Classic children's story with the irrepressible William Brown. William is naughty, messy, dirty and the archetypal child from an age when children played outside from morning to night, and a trip to the sweet shop was the height of pleasure. William's middle class family and their domestic help are a bit dated now, but William's inability to follow rules and his constant stream of excuses are timeless, I enjoyed rereading this as much as I did the first time.
The first William collection is one of the funniest and the best. The incorrigibly uncouth but wildly imaginatively William interferes with his grownup sibling's love lives, has a brief but intense crush on a teacher, joins (against his will) the Band of Hope (because members of his class have such a refining effect on the village children), and manages to avoid attending a wedding dressed in white satin as a page.
That boy!
William's earnestness, gravity and complete lack of understanding of how the adult world works is balanced by the author's light and gracious touch and the result is a comedy of manners, youth, family and misunderstanding that is both rewarding and entertaining.Pity William's mother and father, as well as his older sister and brother, as William misconstrues their comments and misperceives their situations and then steadfastly undertakes to fix that which is not broken.
The humor can be deadpan, or dry, or slapstick, or subtle; it can reside in the narrator's asides, or the dialogue, or the character's situations, but it is always rewarding and entertaining.The book's chapters read like linked short stories, so this is an especially nice volume for dipping into when you need a bit of a calm pick-me-up.
Another memorable one is of him putting on a show (to raise funds) for the neighbourhood children disguising and showcasing domestic pets (including his aunt) as wild exotic animals.The William series (38 books written over a span of 40 years, 1922 onwards) also throws light upon middle class life in England at the time, and especially shows the dogged determination of the British as the country braced itself for war.
As time progresses, one notes the subtle changes in a disappearing way of life.
I received this book as a freebie from Audible.11 year old William is a real personality.
However William cannot help being naughty, and feels he is not understood by his parents or adults in general.Just William is a collection of 12 short stories.
My favourite stories are William in white satin - when William is a page at a wedding.
William's New Years day - The owner of a sweet shop asks William is asked to look after his shop until the owners nephew return.
I loved Just William it was a real feel good book, a humorous book with sarcastic observations.
Not-so-sweet William raises hell in a sleepy little English village in the years before the first world war rocked England. Coming from a time when food is plenty, sweets are delicious (and cheap) and children spent all day outdoors dreaming about pirates and robbers, William is an archetypal image of boyhood. He also happens to be head of a gang called the Outlaws and local disturber of the peace. Richmal Crompton infuses her characters with a lot of humour and wry observations on adolescence and adulthood courtsesy William's long suffering parents, siblings and neighbours.
I've read just about all of the series, but this one can stand in for all of them.
I read them when I was growing up (in the 60s) and they're utterly brilliant for kids and adults alike (I read one of the series 10 years ago).
Maybe I liked it so much for two reasons - William was the mischevious kid I wanted to be, in charge of his own gang (The Outlaws); and I grew up in the countryside having similar adventures in brooks and streams and trees, although I was from a working class family and didn't have maids and so on.
It got me into reading as well...
I first found the William series by Richmal Crompton when I was at high school.
I read as many as I could get my hands on and have returned to them in the intervening years.
They are a brilliant expose of what it is like to act like a nine or ten year old boy.
The characterisation is brilliant as is the dialogue.
Even after taking into account the length of time since the first William book was printed, the dialogue given to William still stands the test of time as faithfully records how any young boy from any era might think and talk.
A delightful book.
I found it the first time when it was mentioned in an off hand manner in a Dick Francis mystery.
Thank you Dick Francis!
I'm glad that my book group seemed to enjoy it.
One person commented that it was a bit like PG Wodehouse for kids.
I get lots of laughs each time I read it.
I laughed so hard this time that my husband picked it up to read.
I'm looking forward to the other books in the series.
Looks like I'm set for awhile with these since there are 39 books in all!
Just William took me a while to get into; the language is quite old fashioned and that put me off the book for a long time, but when I got started the stories were so funny and clever I couldn't put them down. When I first read the blurb I imagined these stories would be a lot like horrid Henry, but wow, (no offence horrid Henry) they are so much better! They are cleverly written and funny, and will leave you laughing out loud at the bravery of William. Recommended
I love William--he's such a grubby, earnest, scowling, rebellious child, with such a heavy hand on the sarcasm. These books are a hugely entertaining window into middle-class English family life in the twenties.
This book is amazing. William is creative in his own mischievous way. If you are looking for trouble, he's got it.
3.5* Kara Shallenberg did an excellent job narrating this book about 11-year-old William. In particular, I liked the pace of her narration.
Funny stories about William, the very very very bad little brother, who's always up to something. Very British, but also universal.
