https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28759.Magic_s_Pawn
People become Heralds only if they get Chosen by a Companion; Companions are benevolent guardian spirits who inhabit the bodies of white horses, and can sense people who have special powers (Gifts), like telepathy (mind speech), telekinesis (fetching), fire-starting, or the ability to do magic.
Except for one person--Tylendel, who is Savil's trainee and lives with her and Vanyel.
I think one reviewer said in places it starts to read like a PFLAG pamphlet.
A lot of people say they couldn't handle this book because Vanyel was just so damn whiny.
And surprise, surprise, I ended up changing my mind about gay people.
How about both?First, let me warn you: This book is gay.
Really, really gay.
Gayer than He-man, gay.
So, if you can;t handle lots of gay in your books, skip it.
The story is fine and simple, but boy oh boy, it is as melodramatic as it is gay.
However, I can say with complete certainty, that this is the kind of book some confused young kid might pickup, not knowing it could really help him figure out himself, or even save his life (yes, I know, melodrama).
Yes. Way to melodramatic to be considered "good"?
Yup. An interesting guilty pleasure for sad, sad man like myself?
By popular demand (ok a friend asked me to "do the one with the blue-eyed telepathic horses and the owls you could ride on"), a review of the Vanyel books.
This series, with it's billowing clouds of adolescent angst, gay boys, and yes, blue-eyed telepathic horses, basically got me through my teenage years.
I would lock myself in my room and sob.
Oh the telepathic horses!Note: I don't think the owls were in this series.
Or the magic valleys where there were lizard servants to cater to your every whim.
Yes, lizards magically genetically modified to be slaves but happy about it.
That blurb gets the book all wrong.
Vanyel reluctantly falls in love with a Herald in Training Tylendal who turns out to be his life bond soul mate.
Also Tylendal was a guy because Vanyel is a strong awesome gay hero.
The only thing is Mercedes Lackey puts poor Vanyel through hell.
I just want to take him out of this book, give him a cup of tea and some cookies and a hug because he suffers so much!I continue to love this book but I want to pull vanyel out and give him cake and cuddle him because he goes through hell.
Magic's Pawn is one of those bildungsromen-type fantasies, but it's still a very busy book, and when adventure happens it certainly doesn't dither.I did feel a bit like I'd walked in on a group of role-players and a game that's new but familiar: I had no trouble following the story or understanding the world, but because I haven't read any other books set in this world, there's a lot that isn't explained and plenty that you would expect would be dramatised but isn't - like the Companions (intelligent, magical horses) finding their Chosen (new Herald-Mages) - and the difference between a Herald and a Mage, or why some are both, is unclear.
Music is everything to Vanyel with academics running a close second, but his father only wants him to become a brutal swordsman.Others who may relate: those who excelled in their own small pond (small town or small school), but find themselves out-shone by talented peers when they arrived at university.
Vanyel is considered smart and musically talented at home, but once he is sent to his Aunt Savil at the school for Herald-Mages, his talents fall short of the mark.Also a book for a youngster (in the 1980s) struggling with his/her sexual orientation.
Melodramatic, over-the-top, and as subtle as a brick to the skull, this is nevertheless an engrossing read. Vanyel's journey from a spoiled, effeminent musician-wannabee to a heart-broken, effeminent Herald-Mage is really engaging. Teenagers will especially find themselves drawn to this story. The one truly boring part is Vanyel's time spent healing with the elves (or whatever they're called--they're basically mystical Native Americans with equally mystical white hair and magical birds).
For emphasis.The story is standard fanfic fare - super emo kid is hated by everyone, is sent off to "become a man" by his evil dad, falls madly in love with the Most!
after 3 seconds, is bonded for life because of twu-wuv, shitty things happen, and he discovers he is super-amazing AKSHULLY....I could have almost lived with this, because I am also a not-so-secret emo-jelly-baby, and my Achilles Heel is hurt/comfort and magical life-bonds and all the associated wangst.But guh.
We are beautiful, and now we are in love!
OH NO WOE IS ME!(And it's getting two stars because even though I eye-rolled my way through the whole damn thing, I kinda want to read the next one.
Huh. I didn't read the blurb when I shelved this because I read it years before goodreads, but after reading Spider's review I notice that yes, the blurb is quite misleading.
The main character is not sent to his aunt to get his magic powers trained.
He doesn't have magic powers until SPOILER way later in the story.
He is sent away from home because his father doesn't like that he is interested in music and clothes and books rather than sword fighting and knocking up the maids like a man should be.
From his sorceress aunt's point of view he is just a minor annoyance.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
I picked up this series because I was in the process of writing a fantasy novel with a gay hero and I wanted to see what other works were out there.
Best of all for me, though, was the fact that although her hero is unapologetically gay, the series does not become mired in its "gayness" as so many other works of gay-themed fiction I have read.
Whether you're gay or straight, you'll find them an excellent read and, like me, you'll be sorry to reach that last page.
It was one of the worst books I've ever read. I read it because many people told me it was great, but, really, it was pure masochism. That level of stupid angst is almost unbearable. The worst things happen to the main hero and he's totally emo all the time. Oh, and tries to kill himself all the time. I was hoping for some light reading; instead, I ended up with a book that made me want to bang my head into the nearest wall because of it's sheer stupidity.
Final Rating: 4.25/5Final Rating for the whole series: 4.25/5  "There is no shame in loving. (...) This I think I have learned: where there is love, the form does not matter, and the gods are pleased. This I have observed: what occurs in nature, comes by the hand of nature, and if the gods did not approve, it would not be there. I give you these things as food for your heart and mind.”   This book should be illegal. Call the police, because it just killed all of my feelings and did more than tha
It started with down then up then down then down then up then down again and finally up again (it's HOPE!)As all of you who are familiar are aware of my reviews, I love dark and heavy books, but this one was super heavy.Let's talk about the most super awesome horrifying trigger that is actually the most (sadly) common trigger - suicidal thinking and all that comes with all suicide warnings, you've got it here.We are dealing with depression, HEAVY EMOTIONAL DEPRESSION born from 16 years of heavy emotional abuse,, in which our beloved wonderful main character ended up with: 1) low self-worth and self-esteem [yet he managed to keep his arrogant facade keeping while he was dying inside], 2) suicidal thoughts, 3) having dreams crushed regularly, 4) doesn't quite understand love, 5) is codependent, 6) is just a teenager of sixteen who has been crushed so low that it's been a wonder he had been able to get up again and again until his hope was crushed again.
YOU CAN'T EXPECT US TO JUST GET OVER THAT SHOCK.By No. 5 you can probably guess what happened and if you haven't read the book, only you are to blame for spoiler reading.
(hide spoiler)]Anyway, apart from that incredibly frustrating event, this was a very enjoyable book that hooked me nearly from beginning to end.
Maybe even rant at the incredible unfairness of the world like I did.
It sort of just awkwardly straddles that line.But anyway, all in all this was a very good book and I recommend it if you enjoy this genre, or perhaps it caught your eye.*Note: After reading a review or two below about how utterly whiny and annoying Vanyel was, Magic's Pawn was bumped pretty drastically down my to read list.
Previous review Misunderstood youth who find his true love and other special powers at his aunt's place.
Good book.
3-1/2 stars.Current review - AudiobookI didn't realize when I read the book versus listening to the book how much whining and passing out went on in this book.
(view spoiler)[Yes, Vanyel had a horrible childhood.
Yes, Vanyel lost the love of his life at an early age.
Yes, Vanyel was filled with magic in a painful way.
But does the book have to read as if he's a frail historical romance heroine.
(hide spoiler)] I do not plan reading any more of the books.
Primarily when it comes to magic and its practitioners, you can always tell when it’s Mercedes Lackey’s great handiwork.
I was really looking forward to reading a great and adventurous fantasy adventure with a gay character, (the bonus would be if it had romance too.) There are so very few of them which are one of the things that makes this trilogy a jewel.
The main character Vanyel is so vain in his obvious good looks, but like just about every son he tries so hard to please his father.
Previous review Misunderstood youth who find his true love and other special powers at his aunt's place.
Good book.
3-1/2 stars.Current review - Audiobook I didn't realize when I read the book versus listening to the book how much whining and passing out went on in this book.
(view spoiler)[Yes, Vanyel had a horrible childhood.
Yes, Vanyel lost the love of his life at an early age.
Yes, Vanyel was filled with magic in a painful way.
But does the book have to read as if he's a frail historical romance heroine.
(hide spoiler)] I do not plan reading any more of the books.
I could have been reading M/M back in the 80's? Mercedes Lackey was always on the shelves next to Anne McCaffrey in the bookstores and library. I always chose Anne McCaffrey. Not sure why I never read anything of Lackey's. Look what I've been missing!
Gary Stu does shonen ai. Although this book contains no unicorns, there are still too many unicorns.
When I first read Lackey's Cute Magical Horseys, Magic Schools for Angstier-than-Thou Kids and also Occasional Off-Page Orgies (which is how I remember this series from my childhood, okay), I ended up reading Arrows of the Queen and a few later volumes quite a few times, but somehow *never* made my way back to one that is perhaps among the best-known parts of the series: The Last Herald-Mage trilogy.First, I didn't read them because they weren't available in my favourite library.
These are my magical-soul-healing-horseys books.
3.5this, to me, wasnt the most groundbreakingly original fantasy novel (im especially tired of random nonsense made up languages that appear and have all these apostrophes and arent translated in any way and make zero sense) also, for a short fearful moment i almost thought this was going to be a really sexist world setting but it wasnt, at least not more sexist than our beautiful actual universe is either, plus it actually features badass female characters, which is rlly a good aspectgood thing

Every time I pick it up and read it, I'm taken back to a hot lazy summer in which my friend handed me a copy and said, "I think you'll like this." It got me interested in the series, in the author, and was without a doubt the first book to really kick off my obsession with fantasy novels.Ladies and gentlement, the book that started it all.This is also the turning point in the Valdemar series, where you can really tell that Lackey has found her voice and has settled into a comfortable and refined style that carries her through the rest of the books she writes.
Vanyel lives in emotional extremes, his character growth is delineated and repetitive, and most of all his experience and reactions are both so tragic that the book reads as pure--and problematic, given that it exploits links between homosexuality and suffering--melodrama.
Magic's Pawn underplays the Herald and Companion structure well-established in other books (although the magical Native American-equivalent which is explored instead is, too, problematic), but both the magic systems and the societies are eerily similar, from their excessive capitalized nouns to their magically-enforced relationships.
The main character, Vanyel, is a self-absorbed self-pitying jerk of a teenager for most of the book.
Fortunately, he's SUPPOSED to be a self-absorbed self-pitying jerk of a teenager -- and those certainly aren't unusual traits for a teenager -- so it's less offensive than it could be.
Lots of artificiality going on, whether in character development, skill sets, or worldbuilding.Nonetheless -- despite all my complaints -- at times the melodrama can be pretty effective, even for me.
Overall -- if you can temporarily take on the maturity level of a teenage girl, you'll probably enjoy this book.
Есть блестящие моменты, и есть невыносимо затянутые. Драма в лучших традициях античных спектаклей! Страсти, которым позавидуют аргентинские сериальные сценаристы! Жаль только, что в первой книге романтическая линия (view spoiler)[обрывается, едва начавшись. (hide spoiler)] Издание 89 года, вполне ожидаемо, что секс за кадром. Впрочем, там большая часть отношений за кадром, поэтому как слэш лучше не воспринимать. Как фэнтази - ничего нового или особо интересного. Дочитала с трудом, вторая книга уже скачена, но я и начинать не хочу. Может, другим разом...
Lame.Anyway he meets his TRUE LOVE named like Tiraniel or some shit.
In this 'verse if you meet your true love it's weird and magical and you're like, life-bonded (in one of her other books a dude became life bonded to his magical horse friend and oh my god why am I considering reading this again?) So anyway Tiraniel gets MURDERED BY DARK FORCES and Vanyel like feels his death and shit, and it causes him to angst out SO HARD that he suddenly has EVERY SINGLE KIND of magic.
I think Van refuses to tell Stefan that he's the reborn Tiraniel because it might ~*~traumatize him~*~.
You can cut it however you like, and Lackey never actually goes out and says it, but it's clear from his past and it's clear from his behavior.
And, really, I found Vanyel's brooding fits to add some lighthearted amusement to an otherwise overly angsty book.And I do mean angsty; tragedy after tragedy befalls our intrepid hero, and while I really enjoy reading about characters being miserable, it's overblown and so poorly handled that by the time (view spoiler)[Vanyel is trying to kill himself by cutting his wrists the wrong way (hide spoiler)] I'm closer to laughter than tears.
(hide spoiler)]I think part of the problem is that these books aren't particularly well-written.
An emotionally destructive book. It started out so typically YA and then was like "surprise! Not a YA, this is open heart surgery. BTW we just ran out of anesthesia. Strap in!"CONTENT WARNING: (view spoiler)[ Homophobia, child abuse, suicide, death of a loved one. (hide spoiler)]Things to love:-Van and Lendel. They are a great young couple who work to bolster each other. It's wonderful to see relationships built on mutual respect and affection, when so often in books it seems there's a skewed dy
This one breaks the formula and dives head long into sadness that usually only occurs once in a hero's story.
The long internal monologues in italics, the overuse of em dashes and stress words, and the way Mindspeech was denoted made some of the reading difficult to follow.
I think it would have been much more powerful if we understood beforehand what was happening and why it would be a big deal.Such a terribly sad book, but it was refreshing to have gay protagonists (and more than just one!!), strong women, loving relationships, and an author unafraid to explore human sorrow.
Oh, Teh Angst!Here’s something I don’t get: Why, in fantasy worlds where the balance of sexuality is different and the society is portrayed as less prejudiced than our own modern one, do gay and lesbian characters wind up living incredibly over-angsty lives anyway?(view spoiler)[Take Vanyel from the Last Herald-Mage trilogy (yes, again).
He comes from a society that initially seems incredibly prejudiced, with a narrow-minded father and a sexuality so repressed he has never considered the idea that he might be attracted to his own gender.
There's lots of praise and lots of laughing about Mercedes Lackey's books, either of which apply for those of her books I read alike.
But still, despite constantly reoccuring elements that would bug me into stopping to read other books altogether, I never can put one of her books down.
I don't exactly what it is, but like other books by Mercedes Lackey, they draw me in from the first sentence and that's about it.
And while I just cannot give it a solide 5 star rating, because the writing really could be a bit better, I enjoyed myself more than I'd like to admit re-reading this book.
I have liked this book more than I have expected.
We have undoubtedly read two different completely books!
The blurb says Vanyel is some kind of self-centered prick who was born with a great magical power while in my book he is a very miserable boy who has never known he has magic in him, and who probably wouldn't know if not for a great accident.
Yes, we must have read two different books.Vanyel is a character that grabs your heart quite quickly.
Still the book in very entertaining.
I'm looking forward to read the next book in this series.
