https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23792.Roald_Dahl_s_Book_of_Ghost_Stories
This collection of ghost stories, that I bought last year after the creepy season ended, felt like a similar indulgence to me.
I was going to savor Roald Dahls' writing one story at a time, one story for 14 nights of October, leading up to Halloween night.
He then narrowed that down to 14, for this particular collection.The first ghost story, “W.S.,” written in 1954 by L.P. Hartley (who obviously likes initials), was succinct, successful at making the hairs creep up on the back of my neck.
I was seriously impressed by this collection of ghost stories.
I would estimate that 10 out of 14 were genuinely frightening and it took me a while to focus on the present day after being taken into the past.
Also the calibre of these stories was exceptional (as Dahl states in his introduction) 'The Telephone', 'The Upper Berth' and 'The Ghost of a Hand' were particular favourites that really scared me.
The wonderful introduction by Roald Dahl really accenuates each story and the history behind some of the authors.
I will be buying this as a present for people who enjoy being scared!
Funny, although ten out of the 14 stories in this book are ones I like, at least to some degree, I'd really rather read them in some other collection.
I think it may be Dahl's rambling, discursive and inconclusive introduction.
He rides an utterly irrelevant hobby horse (children's writers don't get no respect) and indulges in a peculiar--and not well supported--comparison of the merit of men and women both as writers in general (men are better) and as ghost story writers (women are better).
His own selection doesn't even support his thesis (of 13 writers, only 4 are women).All the same, I'm keeping the book--it does have Cynthia Asquith's "The Corner Shop" and A.M. Burrage's "Playmates."
A novelist receives strange and disturbing post cards from an unknown fan ; lonely children speak to and about what their parents or guardians dismiss as imaginary friends until contrary evidence materializes ; an impoverished writer visits an antique shop finding different surroundings and tenants at night to those during the daytime ; a strange hand haunts a mansion and it's inhabitants ; strange telephone calls from the dead ; a mystery figure sweeps up leaves at night ; all who sleep on cabin 105 on the ship Kamschatka go mad and throw themselves overboard.
These stories will chill your spine and stay in your mind long after you have read them.My personal favourites are Harry, Playmates, Ringing the Changes, The Ghost of a Hand, The Sweeper and On the Brighton Road.
This book has been sitting on my TBR since 2011. Yes, I have finally gotten around to it. It was full of creepers by plenty of forgotten authors such as A.M. Barrage, F. Marion Crawford, And Rosemary Timperley. Dahl did a wonderful job selecting these stories.If you can, find a copy and savour the scare.
Maybe I’m desensitized... but wow this sucked 😱I would say no fault to Roald Dahl because he obviously didn’t write any of these but I mean he compiled them in a book and just wow. I came so close to DNFing this. It was torture. I tortured myself. Torture. The only thing scary in regards to this book was the feeling like I wasn’t going to make it out alive. I was for sure I would succumb to terriblebookitis.
Como ocurre con todas las antologías de relatos, siempre hay algunos que destacan más que otros y que perduran más en la memoria. Uno de mis favoritos es el de "Harry", escrito por Rosemary Timperley, que trata sobre una niña adoptada que parece tener un amigo imaginario muy interesado en protegerla y enseñarle cosas.No quisiera contaros nada más sobre los relatos que contiene, ya que en estas situaciones es mejor que cada uno los descubra por sí mismos. Pero asegúrate de tener las luces encendidas si estás solo.Reseña completa el 12 Noviembre en THE BEST READ YET BLOG
In his weirdly sexist preface, an author I greatly respect says that he has read through 749 ghost stories to select these 14 as the very pinnacle of the genre.
So either these 14 really are the best stories the genre has to offer, which is at least as depressing as your girlfriend breaking up with you on your anniversary to date Roald Dahl's son, or one really good writer, who succeeded in creating so many unexpected peculiar endings, had no taste, which, let's face it, is a far more realistic option.
Come on, I'm reading a book of ghost stories, I've kinda figured already.
Reading Roald Dahl's Book of Ghost Stories is like that.
Roald Dahl sets you up to feel that way, because he spends the introduction explaining how he once embarked on a mission to read every ghost story he could get his hands on--which came to about 750 stories--to assist with creating a ghost story TV series.
The series never worked out, but Dahl wanted to pass on his favorite stories, and so he created this anthology.So when you start reading the first story, you're already thinking, "Wow, these are the best dozen or so stories, hand-selected by Roald Dahl, from a wide, deep pool of stories!" And they are all, indeed, very good--creepy, suspenseful, and wonderfully well-written.
3 stelle e mezzo.
S." is an author's worst nightmare, one of his imaginary villains somehow brought to actual life --the progression from unease to menace here is gripping enough that the reader swallows the implausible premise.) All of the selections do feature imagination and good, effective writing, however, and all of them make the supernatural seem real; this is one of the best collections of supernatural stories that I've encountered.The dozen authors included here (Timperley and Burrage are each represented twice) are, except for Lie, all British or American, mostly the former; and Le Fanu's "The Ghost of a Hand" --which is definitely one of the world's more original ghostly tales-- is the only story here written before 1900.
I grabbed the book at a book trade thinking it had been written by Dahl, which it hadn't.
I have a feeling Dahl was going for the "hidden treasures" approach of compiling mostly little known authors, but in this case perhaps he should have thrown in one or two from the big guns who are known to please the masses- there is a reason many of the best horror story writers are known for such.
After the introduction (where Dahl is shocked - shocked - to find that women write better ghost stories than men, and spends another page ruminating why would this be? when women fail at every other form of art (painting, sculpting, music) - after that charming introduction, the stories begin. (The title is misleading: Dahl is not the author.)It's a mixed bag. Some are coldly shocking ("Elias and the Draug", "Ringing the Changes"), some predictable ("Playmates"). Some are brilliant and cruel ("Afterward", "The Telephone").The star rating seems a bit unfair in regards to anthologies.
The stories weren't as scary as i thought they were to be, i found this to be more suitable for preteens rather than adults. There is an interesting intro where Dahl explains why women are better suited as writers for children books and his overall take on how difficult it is to write a book for children. Not my favourite book by him, but it was nice to see him do something different
Edith Wharton writes a damn good ghost story.
3.5Recomiendo ir leyéndolos poco a poco, como yo he hecho, para luego volver a sumergirse en ese ambiente paranormal, y que a pesar de ser bastante miedica, ha sido una lectura que he disfrutado, con algunos cuentos realmente sorprendentes y turbios. Reseña: https://fiebrelectora.blogspot.com/20...
A fine collection of ghost stories, and I enjoyed the chance to sample several authors I've heard of but never read before.
As usual, some were just okay, some were good, and a couple were quite good.
The first story, "W.S.," by L.P Hartley, "The Corner Shop," by Cynthia Asquith, and "Playmates" and "The Sweeper," by A.M. Burrage were my favorites.
Dahl's introduction, in which he explains how he came to collect these stories and shares his ideas on the artistic abilities of women (they can't compose music or paint or write good short stories, but, surprisingly, they have an exceptional gift for ghost stories!) at rather more length than was necessary, is probably best ignored, but this is a nice and not-too-long collection of stories, most of which were published in the first half of the 20th century.
First, they're not by Roald Dahl.
They're curated by Roald Dahl.
They are ghost stories (at least the first two, which is all I made it through).
About the girl whose mother answers the door and it turns out her daughter died 20 years ago last night or whatever.
Third, they are old ghost stories.
Oh, [spoiler, barely] (view spoiler)[your adopted orphan daughter's "imaginary friend" who she calls her brother is actually her dead brother, (hide spoiler)] you don't say.
I'm sure these were good at the time.
But that time has passed.
I read every story in here twice and didn't find any of them scary or vaguely interesting.When I picked up this book I was expecting these to be short horror stories written by Ronald Dahl, but none of these are!
They're simply stories he found scary and compiled into a book before slapping his name on the cover.
I am actually a fan of the traditional ghost story, a huge one at that, but these were below satisfactory.
Also, still angry that Dahl didn't write any of these.
Is it terrible to say the best part of this book is the introduction? But then, I am a Roald Dahl fan. And, the stories within this compilation are not by Dahl. Rather they are the best of some 700+ ghost stories Roald Dahl read. There are several that are magnificent and a few that....well, could be shorter. For the reader looking for a selection of short stories to frighten and entertain, this is a good volume to pick up.
A creepy collection of old-fashioned stories that favours creaky old English houses and the as-told-to style common in the late 19th century.
The idea is that Dahl read 450 ghost stories in preparation for creating screenplays for a season's worth of them for an anthology TV show.
The premise of the book relies on their having been scary.
A lot of the best of the best may have been overlooked for having been well enough known that Dahl couldn't present them and get a fresh reaction.
I like the idea of having a decent ghost story shelf in my library...
and while I'm still arguing against this book fitting in as neatly as others (like a Henry James ghost story collection, or the two books created out of an essay by HP Lovecraft on what books inspired him most), or a complete Poe...
Lástima que la serie de la que habla en el prólogo no se llegara a rodar, y que de los cuentos seleccionados para ella se quedaran unos cuantos fuera de la antología. Muy buena selección, aunque los lectores aficionados al género conocerán ya la mayor parte de las historias.
Fun collection of classic ghost stories with some real chillers mixed into the bunch.
So, I had fairly high expectations when he gave me Roald Dahl's Book of Ghost Stories, and I think the compendium largely met them.
Burrage's second entry, "The Sweeper" has the same haunting atmosphere as "Playmates", but was more out-and-out scary in its execution, and definitely one that I enjoyed."Afterward" by Edith Wharton was probably my favourite of the whole collection.
Lie and Le Fanu I wouldn't touch again, but Timperley, Burrage, Wharton and Aickman are by far the best of the bunch, and I'd be happy to read more by any of them in future.
I was so eager to get stuck in and read a series of ghost stories that would either have me scared sherbetless, or at least have me thinking what the fudge.
The shortest story in the whole book was the one I enjoyed the most - really sad.
I plodded through the stories and the flowery language and at stages had to re-read the pages again, as the language was too hoity-toity that it lost the appeal of the story.
Oh well - it's over and done with, time for the next book.
Good collection of shivery stories.
The two I don't like are the two that fall outside of the others' time period (roughly 1885 - 1959), and really wouldn't be missed.
(The one from the 1960s in particular, since it features an attitude I've seen in other books from that time, best characterized as, "Women, huh?
These are otherwise ghost stories written to spook and chill but not horrify--except for the last, which is the only well-known classic: "The Upper Berth," one of my favorites.
My other favorite is the one that's more sad than scary: "Playmates," by A.M. Burrage.
Some familiar stories here and all meet the Dahl's criteria of being spooky and creepy, with an element that's just not quite right. A great collection of stories I'm happy to have on my shelf next to other Dahl favourites. So happy my youngest spotted this at the thrift store, a real find!
Wonderfully spooky collection of old ghost stories, and bonus -- they're actually written well!
Roald Dahl's Book of Ghost Stories was a must-have for me for 2 reasons: 1.
Roald Dahl is one of my favorite authors and I want to read everything he's ever written and 2.
This is a collection of some of Dahl's favorite ghost stories written by other people.
(He also discovered that women are experts in this field and until the 11th hour he thought they would beat out the men with a hard majority.) Since there are 14 different stories in this collection, I will only talk about 2 that I found particularly chilling (and yes they are written by women).
