https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/288961.Mr_Majestyk
Will Majestyk be able to fix the situation and get his melon crop in on time?This early Elmore Leonard book is a pretty smooth read, like all of his stuff.
He just wants to get his damn melon crop in on time!The bad guys are pretty par for the Leonardine course: slick but not as slick as they think they are.
If they had any redeeming qualities, I might have felt bad for them.The story is one long cat and mouse game and it starts feeling like a western close to the end, like a lot of Elmore Leonard tales.
Within the month we had both read our way through the whole big volume of westerns, trading the big hardbound book back and forth.
Sneaking it away from the other when we couldn’t wait.
It’s taken me years to dig into Leonard’s later stuff— and why, I don’t know.
That it was best to stick with the westerns.
It can be Kentucky, it can be Jerusalem or like this one, rural Arizona: the ones I love most have all that DNA of the early old west.
This one, I don’t know why I wasn’t expecting it but it took me by the best kind of surprise.
“Where do you want to go?”“I don’t care.
I picked this up at a Border's Going-out-of-Business sale for $1.79, so I knew nothing about it other than it was by dialogue master Elmore Leonard.
So to my surprise, there wasn't a lot of dialogue in the story, as the main character is cut from the same cloth as John Rambo in First Blood.
However, the lack of dialogue did not keep me from enjoying the story one bit; I devoured all 150 pages of it in a single night's reading.
I think it helped that I pictured the main character as Charlie Bronson in my mind's eye.
But teamed up with Nancy Chavez, a tough and sassy lady hired on as a picker, Majestyk is about to teach Renda that this is one melon farmer you don't mess with.Like many others, I was saddened by the recent passing of Elmore Leonard and initially felt the urge to read a bunch of his stuff that I haven't read yet (and there are a bunch), but I guess there is plenty of time for that.
Part crime novel and part modern western, Mr. Majestyk doesn't have a lot of the snappy dialogue that EL is famous for, but the dialogue as well as the prose are distinctly Elmore Leonard and carry that same tough, casual feel.
I knew I had the novel on the shelf and thought now was a good time to read it.
The book is so similar to the movie that I found myself skimming and therefore enjoying it much less than I ordinarily might have.This is not one of his crime novels but more of a revamp of his early western stuff and as such for me it didn't read as entertainingly as I would have liked.
I'll take another break from Leonard now after two in such a short space of time.
What a fantastic book. I remember the movie with Charles Bronson fondly & that seemed to hold very true. It's been years since I've seen it, so I'm sure some details slipped through the cracks, but I could see all the actors as the fantastic reader laid it out for me. Great action, wonderful finish, especially Majestyk's last line. "You were right. He was trying to kill me."Perfect! Few can write such a well focused adventure as Leonard.
A short, well-told tale that comes to an exciting climax. Lots of action. The characters are lightly-drawn. They are tough, rough, and designed to be liked or disliked. There is little grey here. I enjoyed it. Not a genre I normally read, and there is not enough to likely draw me back, but it was a side-trip I am glad I took.
At his best, Elmore Leonard is every bit as good as Westlake. This book actually reminded me of Donald Westlake's writing, especially the Parker series.Recommened
An oldie from Elmore Leonard, the King of Modern Noir...melon farmer, former spec op operator, is threatened by an organized crime hit man...great characters and fun plot...so much fun, I resurrected the old Charles Bronson movie and boy did they get the roles assigned correctly...spot on!

An early non-western from EL, an indication that he was to become one of the greats of American fiction. I can see the resemblance to Valdez in “Valdez is Coming” with Vincent Majestyk in “Mr. Majestyk” both of which were made into movies). Valdez is Coming is one of my favorites and this one is right up there too.
Originally published back in 1974 (I read a 1986 Penguin version, pictured), and turned into a film starring Charles Bronson, MR MAJESTYK is an action-packed and compelling tale of a war veteran who wants to lead a simple life farming melons in 1970s Arizona, but gets thrown in jail when a wannabe tough guy tries to muscle in on Majestyk's melon business.
There is definitely a western vibe to this crime novel, a man with a past trying to lead a simple life on the land, being harassed by local thugs and the law, trying to just do the right thing and live his life but also willing to take matters into his own hands when it comes down to it.
Mr. Majestyk by Elmore Leonard (Phoenix 1974) (Fiction – Thriller). Vincent Majestyk is an ex-soldier who just wants to be left alone to grow melons on his farm. He winds up in jail after thugs threaten his operation. He soon escapes – with a mafia hitman handcuffed to his wrist. All Majestyk wants to do is go home and get his crop of melons in. This is pure Elmore Leonard at his best. My rating: 7/10, finished 2010.
Elmore Leonard's second contemporary crime novel is really more of an "ordinary guy pushed too far" kind of book, with the titular character, who is simply trying to harvest his crop, running into all sorts of trouble. Some of the coincidences were pretty unbelievable, as was the love interest, but Leonard's ear for dialogue and pacing are spot on. Leonard is still creating his style here, but it's an interesting look at his growth as a writer.
Man, I can not even remember the last time I read an Elmore Leonard (copy of "Raylan" sitting on the shelf.....).
But the book reads quickly, lots of action, and is what I consider the perfect length for mysteries (190-250 pp) - 216.
Leonard at his very best is often hilarious ("Get Shorty")- and this is just a little too serious all the time, without a touch of humor included.I have to be honest, if I had not read Leonard before, I am not sure I would pursue any of his other titles after reading this.
OTOH, some consider this one of his best, and under appreciated.
I'm a big fan of Elmore Leonard, but I hadn't heard of this little novella until I spotted it at a thrift store.
I loved the story -- since it's a novella, the pace was quick and packed with action.
The characters were wonderfully sculpted with just enough details to allow your imagination to take over the rest.
As with all Elmore Leonard books, there was a colorful cast of supporting characters on both sides of the story.
I would definitely recommend this as a good introduction to Leonard's writing style for anyone, or a fun read for those who have already fallen in love with his writing.
Simple and satisfying. There's no fat in this story, just a series of action sequences held together by some thin story and character, but it sure is fun.Personally, this story is right in my wheelhouse. While there's plenty of "urban thrillers", finding a good "rural thriller" can be a challenge. This book fits in that category.My Dad grew melons, so admittedly, for me, any story about a badass melon farmer could do very little wrong.Great read for a short trip through the desert.
This was a wonderful, action-packed book that kept me turning the pages. I never knew this was made into a movie, but I can picture this on the big screen. Charles Bronson I guess played in the movie in which this is really an ideal role for him. I could also picture Patrick Swayze doing this too. Great book and I look forward to more great books by Leonard.
For such a sparse, action-heavy story there is an abundance of landscape. Even days after I finished I am thinking of Majestyk and imagine sun-washed fields and dust kicked up on every faded surface. And in the middle of it all is the inscrutable Majestyk (played by Tom Hardy in my head movie) battling gangland assassins to bring in his melon crop.
My first Elmore Leonard. I think I'm developing a "Man Crush".The story was simple but gave a few surprises along the way. Vivid descriptions of the land and people really drew me in. I watched the you tube trailer for the movie and it was almost word for word from the book.
Ebook.....very entertaining with not a lot of wasted baggage; just like the movie with Charles Bronson.
Published in 1974, this is a transition book between the westerns Elmore Leonard wrote in the first phase of his career and the urban crime novels that made him world famous; it's a western set in contemporary (i.e. 1970s) Arizona.Vince Majestyk survived a tour with the Army Rangers in Vietnam and then a term in prison for winning a fight too decisively; now all he wants is to make a success of his Arizona farm.
Nobody did bad guys, cool heads and comeuppances better than Elmore Leonard.
I know, I know, late to the party.
I have read a few Leonard books and must admit I am hooked.
I devoured this tale in less than 3 days, but could have read it through in one sitting if that pesky 'life' didn't get in the way.
Epic anti-hero, forces mounted against him from all sides, but in the end, the criminals in this tale are thwarted by their ineptitude and overconfidence and the 'every' man wins the day.
I'll need to check out the movie, as well as start collecting the rest of the Leonard catalog.
Early Elmore Leonard. Nothing fancy. But stories about problem solvers and people who decide and act rather than stew and brood never get old. (For this longtime stewer and brooder, it's a particularly vicarious pleasure.) I'm in it for the part where the bad guy, after turning his whole life upside down to get revenge on the hero, belatedly realizes that he really, really underestimated him. Very satisfying.
When the market for Westerns dried up in the 1960's. Leonard's agent suggested he turn to crime. As reader's have known for the past 50 years, this was sound advice.Mr. Majestyk is still a Western, moved to the present day and cast with a small-time melon grower squaring off against a mafia hit man and his goons. You know who's going to win, so it's easy to enjoy the ride and the characters. This novel also became the best Charles Bronson film of the 1970's.
Now look, this is not the best Elmore Leonard book by a mile but it’s just a lot of fun. Like an action movie without much subtext or that much character depth, but it keeps moving and has good set pieces. A highly recommended quick read. A fast action novel is far from everything Leonard can do, but it’s one of the things he does well.
This one lost me in the first 50 pages when the criminal genius tries to violently extort pennies from a melon farmer with an absurd plan involving a truckload of winos. Defending the melon farmer's tiny payroll ends up costing a dozen lives, including many cops. Fortunately, hot babes love ruthless killers so there's that.
This was my first foray into Elmore Leonard and I wasn’t disappointed. It reads very much like a modern western and Majestyk himself is the archetypal hard man who won’t be pushed around. I liked the Chandleresque style and the straightforward plot which went with it; there were no surprises really. It was what I expected and I enjoyed it. I’ll be reading more of Leonard’s stuff for sure.
Pretty much the perfect thriller - taut, wry, economical. Characters drawn in with concision and precision, and gripping, definitely gripping. It's also been made into a film with Charles Bronson, which is easily the best film of any Leonard story, and Bronson's second-best lead role (after "Once Upon A Time In The West", since you ask).
Lots of great stuff in this. It isn’t as loose and sprung as later stuff. Still well worth it. Quick read, he’s never a bad writer. Off the top of my head, not looking at his bibliography, this novels feels transitional from his westerns. Reliance on action over character.
