https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327255.The_Fourth_Protocol
One of the best spy books around.Two years after I jotted this one sentence, I should elaborate more.The book can also be called: how to assemble a nuclear weapon in 13 easy steps.
Combine that with some solid, classic 80s Cold War era spy tactics and half a dozen sub-plots converging toward a decidedly gray-day industrial-era English brick house standoff, and you get yourself an excellent thriller.
In a way, it's the quintessential culmination of the brutal dogmatic standoff between the West and the East.
And more rain.I read this book a long long time ago, and I still clearly remember the initial report on what the Soviets would do if nuclear weapons were used in Europe.
Frederick Forsyth is one of my all time favorite novelists and my favorite of all "spy novelists".
The Fourth Protocol is my favorite spy novel of all time.
It is great in all the little details you get from Forsyth's novels about the steps of the KGB's renegade mission and the investigation of the protagonist's suspicions as well as the dirty pool that make the book so much fun to read.
I wish he could have been used again in Forsyth's books as he was such a likable and heroic character.
This is my favorite Spy novel of all time.
Frederick Forsyth is a writer who did write some classics when it comes to the thriller genre,  The Odessa File about Nazi's post WWII, Dogs of war about the post colonial attitudes of big cooperations about former colonies, the day of the Jackal about the assassination of the French President.
And all books have a very precise build up with a lot of details how certain things can be done, mostly illegal stuff, and then the writer still knows how to surprise you in the end.The Fourth Protocol is about the use of a small nuclear weapon inside a country that was party to a big treaty of Nuclear weapons reduction, it is the nightmare scenario.
There are no Mary Sue characters, no great intuitive leaps of logic, no silly foolishness from the Bad Guys, and only a smidgeon of authorial politics coming into it.
However, it does make me sad to see that every author of this sort of stuff that I've come across is Right Wing to some extent or another.
I wonder what a Left Wing spy thriller would look like, and I wonder if there is some form of the genre kicking about in Russia in which KGB agents are the heroes against CIA machinations.
This is Forsythe's most successful book about the Cold War. His research into the inner workings of the Soviet goverment was so astonishingly detailed and accurate that he came under the attention of the CIA! This book included several of the most intriguing and fully developed characters that Forsythe ever created. A terrific read which was regrettably made into a movie that managed to leave out all of the romance and subtlety of the book and dull the edges of the story. Forget about the film, read the book!
34: "'one of nature's bachelors,'" haha, good one,never heard that particular slang phrase before.Lady Fiona Glen....the eventual inspiration for the name of the Fiona Glenanne character from "Burn Notice," perhaps?--p.
201: Um, would a Russian be using the English pejorative "wogs?" Wouldn't he be using the term "chernozophy" instead?--p.
Since I had seen the film countless times, I read the book with eager anticipation.
The book is a FAR more finely-woven plot than could ever be accommodated within the space of a 90-minute film, and therefore FAR more satisfying.
Overall, a thoroughly good read, but only one sequence from the film which did not originate in the book, the female "assembler" who slept with the deep-cover agent (Pierce Brosnan in the film) just before he murdered her was a nice touch, but obviously not penned by Forsyth.
Trust a master story teller to write an epic!
I can't even begin to imagine the kind of research required for writing a novel like this.
gripping and a complete page turner.
This kind of a story and plot demands extreme craft over the topics like politics, international relations, covert operations and government administration.
Something as simple as how to make a bomb stretches for 4-5 pages.
May be called overtly descriptive, but somehow fits into this novel's style and genre.
Very highly recommended, even if you don't typically read thrillers of this genre.
The problem lies with me not with the book. I just don't enjoy the British spy genre anymore.All I would say is that The Rolling Stones wrote all their great songs in the sixties and are still writing today. I think Freddie wrote his great works a long time ago now: Day of the Jackal, Dogs of War, Odessa File. Maybe he should only perform those works when he appears at Glastonbury.
I fear my feelings towards all of his books will be about the same, and such a thing disappoints me, as I want to enjoy them more than I do.At the start, I wasn’t really pulled into the story.
I kept stopping and starting, picking up other reads as my attention was not held.
I’m not exactly sure what stops me from being pulled in from the start, but as of yet he has failed to do such a thing.
I’m not sure if it is something else.
There was action, and I wanted to see where things were going.
2.5 stars. This book was very slow getting started, and had long boring narratives on British politics. I listened to the audiobook, and didn't even bother pausing it when I temporarily left the room, because I knew I wouldn't miss anything interesting. In fact, if it hadn't been for all the good reviews here, I would have bailed, which I almost never do. The story finally kicked into gear about 2/3 of the way through the book -- way too late.
Simply fantastic - I had been recommended this book and finally got round to reading it and I wished I hadn't waited that long (Sorry Dan!). Frederick Forsyth has such a great style of writing with such attention to detail that you can visualise the scenes in your head and are almost there in the room with the characters. Thoroughly enjoyable!
A slow moving spy story, this one is quite dated now and suffers from pages of boring as hell excerpts from reports sent to the KGB.Eventually we get to the chase and the last third of the book is decent, but you deserve a promotion if you make it that far honestly.
I have probably read this book cover-to-cover a dozen times, and have read selected chapters many more. The characters are well drawn, the story is well told, the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. One of the most fun spy novels of all time.
The fourth protocol is about nuclear weapons. Russians try to breach it and what follows is this tale. Very interesting read. his research is thorough as always. Must read.
A perfectly plotted spy thriller that feels less like a novel and more like true crime. A combination that would become difficult as a steady reading diet, but works very well here.
Later, on reading the contents — which reveal the civil servant to be a double-agent­ — the thief anonymously sends the information to the MI5.In parallel to this, the most (in)famous spy of the ages, Kim Philby, having defected to Moscow, starts working with the Russian government towards a masterplan to supplement the British Labour Party leadership with a hard-left candidate, who would be working for the Russian cause.

However, what's not funny is Forsyth's crystal ball glance into the future, with suitcase bombs, terrorists and spies shuttling across borders to create their sleeping cells, and a very devious plan on behalf of the Russians to overthrow a foreign (in this case, UK) government.
In pre-internet hacking days, the Russians in this novel devise a complicated masterplan to gain control of the UK in a way far more frightening that their current alleged crimes.Like most of Forsyth's books, this one is complex and requires close attention.
Forsyth is typically a 'just the facts' kind of author, with more attention paid to spycraft than wordcraft.

Taken me long enough, having seen most of the film adaptations of his novels, but I have finally read my first Frederick Forsyth novel and I am looking forward to reading more (having bought a set of twelve of his novels). The Fourth Protocol is a well researched story based in a slightly in the future UK (at the time it was written) and it brought back memories for me of that time (mid 80s). Excellent spy thriller.Ray Smillie
as with other FF novels, the research hangs very heavily here. The plot is well conceived and subtle enough. However, Forsyth's own politics and prejudice do leave a slightly disturbing smell.
Frederick Forsyth NEVER disappoints!!!I could hardly put down this book.
Good old Spy thriller with many white- knuckle sequences. Doesn't go where you expect it to, and for that I am grateful.
CT review September 2018Excellent from the start to finish, Mr F. always has understood how to cultivate the “tapeworm of the story”.Negative? A few informative but rather boring passages that add only to show a bit of savoir faire... e. g. all the detail on the bomb making.Otherwise would recommend highly.
At first, I was more than a little worried that I wasn't going to like this book.
2010 is a long way from 1984, when this book was published, and the author is grinding some axes that are no longer in the toolshed at all (to stretch a metaphor).
L'ho letto nel 2003, quando mi era capitato sotto le mani, per caso, al supermercato.
L'avevo acquistato perchè l'unico altro romanzo di Forsyth che ho letto, "L'alternativa del diavolo", non mi era spiaciuto.
Pur nella superficialità del genere, aveva il pregio di creare un'autentica "attesa" e di non trascurare la caratterizzazione dei personaggi.
Ricalca in modo pedissequo il precedente, ma in modo molto meno "curato" e frettoloso, se così si può dire.
Ho ricavato l'impressione che Forsyth scriva i libri con stampino, come si suol dire, che abbia degli schemi fissi che ripete invariabilmente, senza mai evolvere.
Per cui non credo che farò altri esperimenti di lettura al riguardo.
Spies!
Love this stuff and Love Frederick Forsyth.
Eons ago, when I lived in Poland and was starved for reading material, I picked up one of his books called "Icon".
Cool Cold War spy stuff.
Nothing too Tom Clancy, with way too much technical information.
Nope, this book is just chock-a-block with...meetings!
No lie, but seriously, it's really great.
Mostly British MI5 and MI6 versus KGB intelligence.
Counterintelligence.
Detective work that spans the globe.
Not a lot of shoot-em-ups.
Just burn through the pages, take a sip of Pacifico, and imagine you're slinking down an alley in Eastern Europe to make a "dead drop".
The grand daddy of nuclear thrillers, this book has been so influential its plot has formed the basis of everything from James Bond films (Octopussy is essentially a rewrite) through to 24 and on to hundreds of ebooks from wannabe thriller kings.Forsyth's writing is less crisp here than in some of his other works (such as The Day of the Jackal or Where Eagles Dare) but still masterful.Well worth a read; there's a reason this book has been copied so much.
I think the book could have been a bit shorter to make it a block buster, which even otherwise it is. But if it had not carried the name Forsyth, many would have quit during the first 100 pages. But the latter part is just superb and covering the minutest detail with twists and turns. The hallmark of a master story teller is evident very much during the ending stages.
