https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8099187-decision-points
After reading this book I found I liked the man (although not all of his decisions) and respected him more (although not all of his decisions), and found that he was more intelligent than had been my previous impression.
This book is a interesting and enlightening reflection by President Bush (43) on his perception of his life, his decisions, and his actions.
(I would’ve like to have learned what was behind his energy and environment decisions, but they weren’t addressed.)It was enlightening to read of his decision making processes in each case.
The topics that didn't span over several years of his presidency, such as Katrina, the financial crisis in late 2008, and the decision to implement a troop surge in Iraq in 2006, also work well in this topical format.
(See the ABC example from a few paragraphs above).Another thing I liked about this book is that it has Barbara Bush in it, and I love her (the mother, not the daughter).
I do not think Bush was best President.
Take responsibility for yourself.I do not think Bush handled many things very well in his time in office, but then again given the situations and the information available at the time, I don't know that many could have done much better.
All in all he doesn't try to "Make excuses" like some have written on your reviews, but then again I don't half of the people who gave this book bad reviews even read it.
Keep jumping on the I hate Bush band wagon with no idea why other then you are against the war.
Each chapter took a while to get through and seemed to encourage pondering.As a longtime supporter of Bush, I was surprised to find I disagreed with some of his decisions.
Yet, overall, I was encouraged by his prayerful, honest approach to the decisions that faced him as president.
Reading his book motivated me to think about the decisions in my life and my approach to them.
And, to get a better sense of who he is/was as a person.It is odd now that time has passed to remember the hurtful (and untrue) things people said about Bush when he was president.
Politics aside, I thought this was a well written, honest depiction of Bush 43's time in office.
He is very interested in talking to people, getting their point of view.
Bush had some interesting opinions of the various leaders and political figures he was in contact with.
He is not afraid to express disappointment with some Republican leaders, US allies or popular celebrity figures, as well as, praise Democratic leaders, and other people who publicly did not support him.
I recommend this book to anyone who is interested to learn about the years 2001-2009 from his prospective.
I read this book because I wanted to know how Bush would defend himself and his administration.
I contrasted Clarke's description of trying to get the Bush administration to attend to the imminent threats by Bin Laden (that Clinton had alerted him to), the events in the White House and bunker during 9-11 itself, and the push to attack Iraq which preceded 9-11 and quickly overtook the efforts in Afghanistan.
In the case of Bush, I think we cannot afford to take his account of his presidency in isolation of other accounts.
To read his explanation made me reconsider my harsh judgment of his decision.
Probably because one of the few things I value more than capitalism is the peaceful transition of power that regularly occurs in this country.
If TARP was necessary to ensure the continued tradition of peaceful transition of power AND government can unwind itself from the industries around which it has currently wrapped itself, it may have been the right decision.If you suffer from Bush Derangement Syndrome, don't bother with the book.
I'm still waiting to read how someone who espouses such conservative views enlarged government as much as he did but other than that I'm delighted with this book.
This book is very good and I am so pleased to hear in his words answer his critics and my son and I discuss alot about the history of his Presidency and his faith journey.
This a power piece of history and story that touches my son and I.
We have finished Disc three now on 2/14(will comment on this soon).We have finished DISC 5 2/18 and I will update soon.Finally finished and the best thing about reading this book is that he answers his critics and does it with intelligence and grace.
I am proud he was my President.
This book will make you laugh, probably frustrate you, and it may even make your eyes well up with tears.President Bush has a unique perspective that only one other person has had, that is being the son of a former president, he has been involved with the workings of this country for a long time and because of that this book offers great insight, comical stories, gripping eye witness accounts of world wide happenings with a door to a President that one could argue stands alone with all he faced.The chapters are broken down into the major points of his presidency.
From that perspective, I liked the book.I had a few random takeaways:* I got the overall impression that Bush thinks his presidency will continue to look better in hindsight and that during his presidency too much politics/slinging took aim at him and strongly tarnished his perception.* 9/11 caught Bush (and most of the nation) by surprise and really forced a dramatic change in his presidency.
When he visited NYC in the days that followed, I really think this had a huge impression on him, especially when he promised to avenge the horrible acts.* Bush gave the impression that he wanted act immediately to help Katrina victims but didn't have legal authority to do so (e.g. allow federal troops to patrol the state area) because the governor kept refusing to give that authority.
That would reduce the risk of sudden failure and free up more money for banks to lend.”See?
In the five years since I proposed reform, the Social Security crisis has grown more acute.
We would shatter the hopes of people taking risks for freedom across the Middle East.
Ultimately, our enemies could use their sanctuary to attack our homeland.“This war is lost, the surge is not accomplishing anything.” Harry Reid (2007)Critics charged that the freedom agenda was a way for America to impose our values on others.
And when people are given the choice, they choose freedom.“I was cynical about Iraq.
After reading Tony Blair's political biography, I dove straight into read George Bush's "Decision Points." Opponents ought to read the book in order to hear his side of things.
For the rest of us who agreed or disagreed with his decisions, we're treated to a series of brief vignettes followed by Bush's decision-making process, analysis, and retrospective evaluation.
I enjoyed reading about the decision-making process in particular, as there were decisions I wholeheartedly supported and some that I couldn't get behind at all.
The book makes no excuses, and (like Blair) Bush is not afraid to say he's wrong or would do some things differently.
I freely admit that I come at this book as a bleeding heart liberal who never thought much of President George W.
I didn't expect it to be so very boring.
It took me a whole week to get through fifty pages before I finally started skimming to the parts that I was curious about.This book is like President Bush when he went off script during press conferences.
He was president when 9/11 happened (no, I don't think he was responsible, but it still happened).
And the worst moment of his presidency was when Kanye West called him a racist?
Really?), but I grant him the benefit of the doubt in assuming that he acted as he thought best (and, of course, the President always has access to much more complete information than civilians without security clearances!).
Decision Points does a good job of elucidating President Bush's thought process.
Some information is still classified, I'm sure, but he does describe the major factors contributing to his decisions.I recommend Decision Points for people who want to understand more about the former president's decisions and who are willing to read his words with an open mind.
So timely, a picture painting.Numbers:G. Bush cashed $7 million for this book.Bill Clinton cashed $15 milllion for his My Life, in 2001.Obama is about to cash $20 million in advance  for his upcoming memoir.-Is it due to inflation?
After covering some predictable topics, Bachman let loose a surprise: ‘What political philosopher do you most identify with and why?’"One of the areas that interested me in the Bush Presidency was his faith.
‘If world leaders are going to sit around talking about something that might be a problem fifty years from now,’ I told Angela [Merkel], ‘we’d better do something about the people dying from AIDS and malaria right now.’"Nowhere was our President’s faith and compassion more evident than his commitment to alleviate the suffering from AIDS in Africa.
I have always liked President Bush, and the book made me even more appreciative of his leadership for our country.
When I read political memoirs, I'm typically looking for one of two things: a much better understanding of the politician or a much better understanding of the decisions that were made and the day-to-day, nitty-gritty detail of events that led into the decisions.
Sadly, with this book from "43", I got neither.President Bush had an active presidency and was often juggling many simultaneous crises.
Going into the book, I wanted to know a lot more about the process that led to picking Ms. Miers as a nominee.
Those of us who read it hoping to find a reason to reevaluate his presidency will have to go away disappointed.
It's obvious that President Bush wants to preserve and shape his legacy through this book, and I think he does an effective job.
The book is structured as a revisit to some of the major--and controversial--decisions he made during his presidency.
He seeks to clarify his thinking and explain what went on behind the scenes.
It was enlightening to me to hear more about why he did what he did.
President Bush obviously wasn't a stupid, bumbling man as portrayed by his detractors, and I personally think he truly believed what he was doing was right and good for America.
Overall a great and enlightening read.
The Bush Presidential Library is literally 5 minutes from my house and we finally visited it on the Friday after Thanksgiving.
That visit reminded me that I had this audiobook and it was time to give it a listen.
3 hours in, I've got to say that the simple, straight forward style is reminding me of "Yes, Chef" by Marcus Samuelsson.
Neither author is an author by trade so the basic style highlights who they are in a vivid way.
I'm enjoying it a lot so far, especially the way that Bush will look back and take responsibility for a bad or misinformed decision.
No but he does present some interesting points.Besides this being a book about his decisions on Iraq and Afghanistan, I was surprised at how important his decisions on aid to Africa and developing countries were to him.
I honestly don't remember reading much about these decisions when he was president.
Some times the media has its head up its ass.
The media always has its head up its ass.
Alas, I don't have cojones, as the president is fond of saying.I suggest everyone pick up this book.
Whether one is a fan of Bush and/or of his politics, this book is an interesting read.
So many of the reviews I read (more than a dozen, at least) lacked focus on the book itself and instead devolved into Bush-bashing (ranging from explicit attacks to the more "polite" condescension of the NYT).
The book itself is well-written, insightful, and, in many of the familial anecdotes--it is laugh-out-loud funny.
Not me.)Many people (most people I know, quite honestly!) will not read this book.
They will continue to make original jokes such as "he wrote a book, but he can't even read"--which a woman said to me while I was reading at Starbucks.
There is relatively little on the policy or historical implications of the decisions made, and more on what Bush was thinking and feeling at the time.Because of this, the main drawbacks are the lack of analysis; Bush could have explained his logic better and elaborated more (especially on decisions regarding Iraq) but this is rather absent.
He also talks about faith a lot, but these are basically sparse mentions; there is little on how it enabled him.
It also seems like the more convoluted Bush's controversies are (like the arguments behind "enhanced interrogation"), the more he omits.Interesting at times, but it does have its limitations.
This book was interesting.
It certainly didn't give any revelations, but I think it was an interesting reflection.
I continue to believe that President Bush was a man who knew what he believed and didn't waver.
He obviously wasn't overly critical of what he did, but he did reflect genuinely and admitted some of his decisions maybe weren't handled in the best way.
I believe that Bush is a good and principled man, even if he may not have made the best decisions all the time.
I believe he deeply cares about all Americans, and that is reflected in his book.
So, imagine my surprise when, after reading his memoirs, "Decision Points", I not only found that I liked the man, I may have actually been mistaken in some (not all) of my previous assessments of his presidency.
But, Bush's book has, at the very least, helped me to understand some of the rationale behind the decisions he made as President.
That said, no one can say what Bush's presidency has left in terms of a legacy, good or bad.
He does not come across as too self-congratulatory but simply as a man who came to realize that he had a problem and, for the sake of his family, made the decision to solve it.
I re-read some of this book (published in 2010) this weekend, and am reminded of the perspective of President Bush during the time following 9/11.
He describes being given the badge of someone who died when the towers fell, and then:"I served 2685 days as President after Arlene gave me that badge.
Also very interesting to me was this in Chapter 6: "Between 9/11 and mid-2003, the CIA reported to me on average of 400 specific threats each month."My Original review from November 2010:I haven't rated much non-fiction on Goodreads, but since I intend to read a whole lot more of it, I should develop some kind of criteria.
Also, I didn't know that Bush couldn't send in troops after Katrina without a request from the Louisiana Governer who was inept and couldn't make that decision.
Also, after reading the book I truly feel like Bush wanted to always do the right thing as he saw them (even though many American's may not agree with the decision) and he struggled with his decisions to send American's into harms way because he cared.
There were times while reading that I felt he stretched in making a failure a good thing.
The explanation of events surrounding the most consequential decisions made during his presidency are interesting and sympathetic.
I nearly teared up while reading chapter 5.George Bush is an honest and good man, but that is about where it ends.
He brags about his appointments, his expansion of the role of government and the areas he pissed taxpayer money away.To say the man is without guile is not to say he was a good president.
He even led the way to a Democrat president that would further expand an already intrusive government and impede a recovery.The sickening thing is that he wanted to be FDR.
Bush, as he traveled to the area for a variety of reasons.It was interesting to watch him interact with the crowds on the ag tour, and to see how he responded to survivors after a tornado swept Pierce City, Mo.So when I had the chance to read his memoir, I agreed.
Yes.Time is the true test of a President and a memoir.
I think that's true both for President Bush's tenure in office and for what he has written.However, I think this book will definitely give you something to think about - and isn't that what a good memoir is meant to do?
That said, I was curious to know how Bush himself perceived his 8 years in office, and wanted to gain a better understanding of what led him to make several decisions that, even at the time, seemed short-sighted and reactionary.When I bought the book, I expected a healthy serving of self-delusion with a side of revisionist history, but instead, it revealed a kindhearted man who is much more self aware than I expected.
Throughout the book, he thoroughly outlines his rationale for his most controversial decisions; you almost get the sense that he's arguing the case for how history should ultimately remember him.
My dog's name is George. George says he's quit drinking, so I won't tempt him. He would fit well in my golf four-some, but as President of the United States of America, he had his ups and downs. I very much approved of the way he handled the 9/11 event. The way he and his administration handled Iraq and the Middle East continuing saga I very much disagreed. This book is SPIN. I'm sure you've heard that word. George is trying to write history...or as Michael Jackson said.....His-Story.....The book is surprisingly well written. I don't regret reading this book.
