https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63913.Trout_Fishing_in_America
Trout Fishing in America laughed and said you don’t much like to do those things anyways, you'd rather go it alone and read books so why are you complaining.
Trout Fishing in America is about experiencing all of that and maybe forgetting about some of it too and how that doesn’t matter, life is funny that way, it’s less about what you remember and more about how those things affect you and shape how you look at the world and how you live in it.
Mine is clouds." I think that is an enchanting phrase and Brautigan seems like an enchanting kind of guy.I remember I once went camping with Matt and Trout Fishing in America.
It is technically Brautigan's first novel; he wrote it in 1961 before A Confederate General From Big Sur, which was published first.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه دسمامبر سال 2005 میلادیعنوان: صید قزل آلا در آمریکا؛ نویسنده: ریچارد براتیگان؛ مترجم: پیام یزدانجو؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1384؛ در 196 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1385؛ شابک: 9643622150؛ چاپ سوم 1386؛ شابک: 9789643622152؛ چاپ پنجم 1389؛ چاپ ششم 1390؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 معنوان: صید قزل آلا در آمریکا؛ نویسنده: ریچارد براتیگان؛ مترجم: هوشیار انصاری فر؛ تهران، نشر نی، 1385؛ در 207 ص؛ شابک: 9643138008؛ چاپ دوم 1385؛ چاپ سوم 1388؛رمان «صید قزل آلا در آمریکا‌‏» نوشته ی «ریچارد براتیگان»، با ترجمه ی جناب: «پیام یزدانجو» را نشر چشمه منتشر کرده است.
براتیگان، از نسل نویسندگان دهه ی شصت سده بیستم میلادی هستند، و همین کتاب شاهكار ایشانست.
Dietro di loro la statua di Benjamin Franklin a Washington Square, S.F.Il libro è ambientato in tre luoghi principali: la zona nord ovest degli Stati Uniti (dove l'autore spese buona parte della sua infanzia), a San Francisco e nell'Idaho, luogo nel quale Brautigan si era recato a fare un viaggio con la moglie e la figlia.L'espressione "Pesca alla trota in America" è usata con molteplici significati: in base al contesto può rappresentare la pesca vera e propria, un hotel, un personaggio, un vecchio barbone, uno stato d'animo e così via.
Non c’è nient’altro, oltre loro.Comunque, qui per America si intende Stati Uniti d'America.
This book is an experience like few else. I could spend pages discussing this book but the following passage contains all the joy of the novel and is a well enough jumping-off point for the imagination and intellect to decipher the nature and importance of this novel that has been linked to the late-Beat generation A little ways up from the shack was an outhouse with its door flung violently open. The inside of the outhouse was exposed like a human face and the outhouse seemed to say, 'The old g
These moments are exactly what Trout Fishing in America means to me, and though this is not a novel I'd ever pass to my father, I like to associate the two in my mind and consider that as a sign of respect for a father that I truly appreciate and look up to even if we exist in such different worlds that bring about rifts between us.
If anything can be said about this book it is that Trout Fishing in America is all that is fun and good about living, like spending a day in the hot sun reading or drunk in a trout stream, or whatever it is that suits your fancy.4/5 ¹ Did you really think I'd leave a review short and sweet?
Thompson, but some form of sixties inventive and experimental lyric improvisation, like scat singing.I recently visited Asheville, NC and had a great time, really enjoyed the natural setting, the accessible and ubiquitous beer and the art galleries.
Penned at the tail-end of the Beat movement, Brautigan's Trout Fishing in America is his surreal novel on the battle for humanity's soul waged between the high-stakes, ever expanding industrialism of the expiring 20th century and the salad days of nature worshiping 19th century.
The opening chapter of the book is fantastic and worth the investment in the novel just for those few pages alone.
Even when the surrealism is thick Brautigan never lets go of his reader's hand.
After finishing this book I looked to find out more of this author and learned that he killed himself in 1984 at the young age of 49.
Trout Fishing in AustraliaA Richard Brautigan craze started in Australia when I was in secondary school. The focus was "Trout Fishing in America", even if I had already read and preferred  "Confederate General from Big Sur". I loved the zany, almost hallucinogenic brevity of his novels. They were as short and stimulating as a good high, and they were funny. They didn't necessarily have a plot, but they were full of acute, though relaxed, proto-stoner observations. Brautigan walked through life,
The focus was "Trout Fishing in America", even if I had already read and preferred 
It exists, like any other book, for no reason other than to amaze me.You might say, it won't do to write about "Trout Fishing in America", but then you might not say that at all.
Trout fishing is one of the best things in the world for remembering what you read in books.
We are a funny bunch, Pard and his girlfriend and Existentialism and me, all living here together.
I guess that's why Pard calls the outhouse the Magna Crappa.Are we agreed, ladies and gentlemen?"Agreed."What about the mayonaise?"What do you mean, what about the mayonaise?"
Trout Fishing in America is about outhouses, appliances in the woods, and bookstore owners who can tell your future by the type of sex you had with the woman upstairs.Trout Fishing in America is about little boys named Trout Fishing in America, who write Trout Fishing in America in chalk on the backs of first-graders, trout fishing, and doctors who live in the deep woods.Trout Fishing in America is direct, irreverent, blunt, jarring.
Like many of the great humorists, there is a touch of sad things in here.
But this only shows Brautigan's keen touch for how wandering, random, irreverent, boozy life can be.
نمدونم صید قزلآلا در آمریکا واقعاً داستان حساب میشه یا نه. برا من یه خاطرهنویسیِ ادبی بود با نثر تصویرساز و آرایهدارِ دلچسب. یه جاهایی هم خیلی باحال بود، هم باحال هم خندهدار. و قرابت دیدی که داستان مدرن میطلبه رو این کتاب داشت. اما یکپارچگی و انسجامش رو نه. منم موافقم که پُر از چیزهایی بود که ماها باهاش ارتباط برقرار نمیکردیم و خیلی آمریکایی بود. حتماً آمریکاییها خیلی بیشتر حال کردن باش. راستش کمتر از اون چیزی که فکر میکردم ازش خوشم اومد. ولی براتیگانه دیگه. آقا هرچی بنویسن ما دوستش داریم. :x
نمدونم صید قزل‌آلا در آمریکا واقعاً داستان حساب می‌شه یا نه. برا من یه خاطره‌نویسیِ ادبی بود با نثر تصویرساز و آرایه‌دارِ دلچسب. یه جاهایی هم خیلی باحال بود، هم باحال هم خنده‌دار. و قرابت دیدی که داستان مدرن می‌طلبه رو این کتاب داشت. اما یکپارچگی و انسجامش رو نه. منم موافقم که پُر از چیزهایی بود که ماها باهاش ارتباط برقرار نمی‌کردیم و خیلی آمریکایی بود. حتماً آمریکایی‌ها خیلی بیشتر حال کردن باش. راستش کمتر از اون چیزی که فکر می‌کردم ازش خوشم اومد. ولی براتیگانه دیگه. آقا هرچی بنویسن ما دوستش داریم. :x
پینوشت مترجم از کل کتاب جالبتر و جذابتر بودکتاب به فارسی غیرقابل خواندنو برای خواننده ایرانی، غیرقابل فهم استمتن سرشار است از اسامی افراد، مکانها، فیلمها، کتابها و مجلات و ...شبکهای که فقط برای یک آمریکایی، آن هم یک آمریکایی از نسل براتیگان، معنا میسازدشهرت و فروش جهانی کتاب، بیشتر باید یک تب روشنفکری باشداما درباره ترجمهمترجم در عین آنکه دیگری را برای ترجمه کمونیست به "اشتراکگرا" مسخره میکندخودش عنوان مجلهlifeرا به زندگی ترجمه کرده استو پمپ بنزینtimeرا به "زمان"در حالی کهpalyboyرا ترجمه نکرده و
پی‌نوشت مترجم از کل کتاب جالب‌تر و جذاب‌تر بودکتاب به فارسی غیرقابل خواندنو برای خواننده ایرانی، غیر
بسیار ناامید کننده، یک سری یادداشت های پراکنده که هیچ شباهتی به داستان نداشت، نوشته هابه شدت شخصی بو
Short and completely off the wall; published in 1967 and immediately a success with the counterculture.
The chapters are short and informal.
That for me is the key, some of the flights of imagination (going to the garden centre to pick up trout streams by the foot with waterfalls, flowers, insects as extras) and the odd names feel like something that a parent might make up for a child; almost a bed time story.
On the whole it is entertaining and odd, but I think it is as much a story for a child as anything else.
“I always wanted to write a book that ended with the word Mayonnaise.” “Truth is stranger than fishin’.” Richard Brautigan published Trout Fishing in America in 1967.
It’s like Hem’s In Our Time or On the Road; it’s a kind of ecstatic beginning; Brautigan typed much of the first draft of Trout (which sounds like it might be a serious treatise on fishing by Izaak Walton but is so not) on a long weekend camping with his wife and baby daughter, who are (seemingly) referenced throughout the book, and most of it happens outside, in the pacific northwest.
I made a lot of friends in that group, a couple of them being the first self-professed homosexuals I'd ever met.
Although most of us, for this was my primary self-definition, were at least "informed by Marxism", and almost all were students very interested in and sympathetic to what the general society would have called "leftist", a couple of "us" were actually libertarians of one sort or another.
If anything, we just worried less about how we looked and resented the tyranny of fashion (or, to we in the third group, "commodity fetishism").So, who did we read back then?
This first work made the rounds of many publishers and was pretty much shelved for other titles of Brautigan such as his second novel A Confederate General from Big Sur that was loosely based on a friend of his and was more "plot driven" than Trout Fishing in America.
A clever first book, often brilliant in spots, with sounds resembling the best lyrics of a young Bob Dylan who was also in process of finding his own voice in that same time along the by-ways of America.
Some people will tell you that the book is not about Trout Fishing in America.
And I had seen some Trout Fishing in America in movies.
I’ve never done a review of Trout Fishing in America.
That’s a metaphor.‘Would you like to come and eat?’‘Yes.’When I was in first grade, one of the bigger boys wrote Trout Fishing in America on my back.
Maybe Trout Fishing in America was a bad thing?
And, then, you are a cliché.’But then I read that Trout Fishing in America was dead.
No more of this Trout Fishing in America.
Continuava a correre dritto verso di me, ben dopo avermi visto, erano già passati un secondo o due.
E correva attorno alla casa, facendo il giro attorno al cesso, e il cane subito dietro di lui.
Dietro ancora c'era la cerva.
Ha preso la stessa strada, ma non era così veloce.
Ecco, era così che andava avanti la vita, giorno dopo giorno.
Come un sogno, è un dialogo essenziale tra sensibilità e concretezza, in libera associazione: beat e lunatico, fino alla fine, fino al fondo del fiume.
Finished this a few weeks ago, and would have much sooner, but I actually stopped reading it for a w
I missed TFiA when I went through my first Beat/proto-Hipster/Petite bourgeoisie phase when I was 17. I loved the geography of this book, the narrative poetry, the sense of place and people. I can see how a book like this can burn naively hot and then stall for awhile. Keep the kids from away from abstract novellas. Reading parts to my woman, she was absolutely not surprised he was friends with Trout Fishing in America City Lights. Life, poetry, trout fishing and mayonnaise are all just a bit messy in the end.
فصلای مرگ قزل آلا براثر شراب پورتتروریست های صید قزل آلا در آمریکاوورسویکفوق العاده بودن آخه این چه طنزیه که براتیگان داره؟چطوری می تونه با این سطراش منو اینطور به خنده بندازه :دیخلاقیت ذهنش واقعا تحسین کننده است و بازی اش با کلمه ها و لغت ها ^_^ولی کلا من پیچیده شدم توی این صید قزل آلا در آمریکا...
مایونز!
First half = 4 starsSecond half = 2 stars Book = 3 stars /shrug
Бротіґан українською - цього вже достатньо, щоби випити пива за здоров'я вітчизняного книговидання (хоча пива я не п'ю, хм, невдобно якось виходить).
Щось я забагато останнім часом пишу про книжки, починаючи та закінчуючи словом любов - як оно з Аткінсон було - але ніде правди діти.
Тексти цього чувака люблю, нехай і дивною болісною любов'ю.
Та якщо казати виключно про тексти, то я у Бротіґана люблю цей ненав'язливий зсув реальності, що творить інші, замкнені на себе, практично інкапсульовані, химерні світи із шматів такого нудного повсякдення, що аж диво бере.
Okay, I’ll admit it: I don’t get it.I may need to start singing the “Small World” song, however, as I happened to notice that this book is dedicated to someone named Ron Loewinsohn.
“I had a professor at Berkeley named Ron Loewinsohn.
I wonder if it could be the same guy?”Two minutes of Wikipedia research reveals: yup!
Apparently he and Brautigan were good friends back in the day.
That Loewinsohn’s neck-and-neck with this guy shows what an awesome lecturer he was.) Now I’m tempted to write him an email.
P.S. PLEASE EXPLAIN RICHARD BRAUTIGAN AND TROUT FISHING IN AMERICA TO ME.
صفحه اولش رو که صرفن داستان نمازخوندن عمر توی اورشلیم بود، حدود یک ساعت طول کشید تا تموم کنم.این کتاب حتا از اون هم سخت تر بود.
ذهن دیوانه وار براتیگان به قدر کافی سخت بود، استعارات و تشبیهاتی که هیچ اشاره ای به مرجع های خودشون ندارن، به قدر کافی آدم رو دیوونه می کنه، چه رسد به اینکه خط به خط کتاب پر باشه از اشارات به تاریخ و فرهنگ آمریکا - اونقدر که فقط یه آمریکایی میتونه ازش سر در بیاره.اما خوندن توصیف های بی نظیر براتیگان، مثل همیشه کم نظیر بود.
Richard Brautigan's easy-going, beyond informal style should be the easiest thing in the world for today's internet-saavy to read - the freestyle association, onomatopoeia, and occasional anthropomorphism fits right in with any lolcats-humorist.
In his most famous work, Brautigan fires off tiny snippets of genius with Trout Fishing in America inserted as whatever concept or person he focuses on.
Occasionally, he ties some of the concepts together on a whim.
Amidst all this very 60's attitude and writing style, Brautigan finds time to settle into scenes like "Worsewick, a beautiful vignette of hideously real sexuality and descriptive language that puts emphasis on the least notable of details, all to add up to the most comprehensive picture possible because of it.
صید قزل آلا در آمریکا نکات مشترک زیادی با دو رمان کلیدی نویسنده،"پس باد همه چیز را با خود نخواهد برد" و "قند در هندوانه"داره: جامعه گریزی،پناه بردن به طبیعت و مرگ محوری. روح مرگ بر تمام داستان سایه انداخته: گورستان،رودخانه های آلوده،ماهیانی مرده همگی نشون از مرگ دارن. راوی داستان صید قزل آلا تا پایان داستان گمنام باقی میمونه و مثل باقی کاراکترهای خلق شده توسط براتیگان سرانجام درست و حسابیای نداره. همهی اینها به کنار، داستان یه نقطه ضعف خیلی خیلی بزرگ داره: پر از اسامی و استعاراتی هست که تنها یک
صید قزل آلا در آمریکا نکات مشترک زیادی با دو رمان کلیدی نویسنده،"پس باد همه چیز را با خود نخواهد برد" و "قند در هندوانه"داره: جامعه گریزی،پناه بردن به طبیعت و مرگ محوری.
اول از این جهت خوندنش کمک شایانی به شناخت روحیات نویسنده و شخصیت اول باقی آثار براتیگان می‌کنه دوم از این جهت که "صید قزل آلا در آمریکا" در کنار "قند در هندوانه" و "پس باد همه چیز را با خود نخواهد برد" تشکیل یک سه گانه می ده، سه گانه ای که به نحوی، بازگوی مسیر زندگی براتیگان از شروع فعالیت های ادبی تا مرگ خودخواسته اش‌ه
This is the first time I've met Trout Fishing in America.
We'd always stop at Ledet's Supermarket and buy bread, ham, and a small jar of mayonnaise on our way to the trout rooms.
We'd sit in our small boat with corks bobbing in the room and eat ham sandwiches.
And we'd appreciate the freedom to sit in a little boat with corks bobbing and eating ham sandwiches...
Trout Fishing in America is alright.I remember mistaking and old woman for a trout stream in Vermont, and I had to beg her pardon.'Excuse me,' I said.
'I thought you were a trout stream.''I'm not,' she said.
Genius book. Astounding turns, one after another. Only a few bits of the language have gone a bit dated. I used two of my favorite sentences as part of the little machine-built-of-epigrams at the beginning of Any Deadly Thing. Another favored bit:"The old drunk told me about trout fishing. When he could talk, he had a way of describing trout as if they were a precious and intelligent metal."
کتاب صید قزل آلا در آمریکا برای من به دو بخش تقسیم میشه، نیمه اول کتاب را زیاد دوست نداشتم و اگر کتاب همان جا تموم میشد فقط بهش دو ستاره میدام اما از نیمه کتاب به بعد به نظرم داستان ها تغییر کردند و من بیشتر دوستشان داشتم برای همین بهش چهار ستاره میدم.
