https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14800062-once-a-jailbird
3.5 starsOnce A Jailbird (1934) or Wer einmal aus dem Blechnapf frißt (The World Outside)He who once eats from the tin plate will eat from it again.This grim novel is not merely about prison inmates and ex-convicts, but one using a social theme typical of Fallada, satirizing Hitler's New Germany with subtle criticism.
But, the world outside that Willi had dreamed of is not what he encounters - his efforts to reform are hampered by the stigma of his prison record, and he is made to feel an outcast, not fit to associate with his fellow man.
This is the 3rd novel by Hans Fallada that I`ve read and again I can say that he wrote a wonderful work of fiction. In this story Fallada tells the tragic, yet somewhat comic, tale of the newly released prisoner Willi Kufult. Although it is obvious throughout the book what the outcome will be for the unfortunate Willi, It is an interesting and moving novel, and not without hidden criticism toward the society including those who run it. Absolutely great!
This is the 3rd novel by Hans Fallada that I`ve read and again I can say that he wrote a wonderful work of fiction. In this story Fallada tells the tragic, yet somewhat comic, tale of the newly released prisoner Willi Kufult. Although it is obvious throughout the book what the outcome will be for the unfortunate Willi, It is an interesting and moving novel, and not without hidden criticism toward the society including those who run it. Absolutely great!
And I think it goes to show just how sad it is, that I actually hoped Willi would go back to prison, because at least he knew how to survive there.
He covered every intricate moment, thought of every little thing that might ruin Willi a bit more.
The complexity of Willi's thoughts amazed me.
I know far more about typing agencies and net making than I ever expected (though it probably wasn't that hard for him, considering he lived in Germany at that time).The novel itself was just written beautifully.
I was gripped by the first half of the book - the author knew how to tell a story and I followed every detail, curious to see where is going, despite the title, which was a spoiler alert.In the second part, the main character which almost got himself out of the predicament takes a sudden 180 degree turn to prove the title.
His actions are less credible despite the predictability suggested the title.
I know that the book wanted to reflect a sad reality, the sometimes impossible reintegration of the former convicts in the society, but I felt the story was finally too didactical.
Mittlerweile mein drittes Buch von Hans Fallada das ich gelesen habe und es wird ganz gewiss nicht mein letztes von ihm gewesen sein.
Ausserdem ist die schwere Zeit zwischen den beiden Weltkriegen im Deutschland der 1930er Jahre und der wirtschaftlichen Krise alles andere als optimal um in der bürgerlichen Gesellschaft dauerhaft Fuss zu fassen.Hans Fallada hat in der Zeit gelebt von der er schreibt.
Die Wahrnehmung eines jeden Lesers ist anders, aber für mich ist diese Geschichte authentisch und die Figuren sind derart waschecht gezeichnet, dass man sie leicht als Originale ihrer Epoche wahrnimmt.Hans Fallada hatte die Freiheit, Szenen genau so lange zu schreiben bis er sie für ausreichend auserzählt hielt.
There there's no question over whether Willi will end up back in jail, it's only a matter of time.In an interesting historical note, Fallada's biographer Jenny Williams wrote that by the time the manuscript for the book was finished in 1933, Fallada understood he had to tread carefully so as not to upset Germany's new aryan overlords.
His writing got him condemned and eventually denounced by the Nazis, while Thomas Mann sneered at him from his Swiss opera box for having made even the smallest compromise.(Also, apparently the part in chapter ten where Willi is shown kicked out of school early by a pastor for having dared to meet with a girl who he'll never get to see again comes directly from Fallada's own life, explaining why it barely fits into the rest of the book.)
Zo slovenčinárskeho hľadiska veľmi podnetné a obohacujúce čítanie, výsledok hrdinského nasadenia prekladateľky Šarloty Baránikovej, ktorá stála pred úlohou pretlmočiť väzenský slang z tridsiatych rokov v Nemecku do slovenského literárneho kontextu sedemdesiatych rokov a po ďalších štyridsiatich rokoch výsledok na írečitosti nijako nestratil, hoci, prirodzene, tolerancia k bohemizmom sa tu zavše naťahuje za hranice únosnosti, ale napokon, basmani si na redakciu nepotrpia.
Oveľa väčšmi si na ňu potrpel autor doslovu Peter Hrivnák, u ktorého je až úsmevná úpornosť, s akou sa usiluje pretláčať dobovo falošnú interpretáciu diela do opozície jedinec vs.
spoločnosť, no vzápätí mu odborná poctivosť nedovoľuje zatajiť skutočnosť, že tak to vôbec nie je, že kniha je oveľa komplexnejším obrazom psychológie trestanca, než len akousi jednorozmernou obžalobou buržoázie.
A tak to ide veta za vetou.
Mostly Fallada's hero Kufalt experiences this baseness when he meets the average guy, who lets him know that Kufalt feel all his disgust toward him, the former inmate.
Society in the 30s, as much as today, is one that rewards only those who work hard.
In a society that only focusses on progress there is much opportunity for many to be left behind and that can be brutal.
Already 80 years ago Fallada was aware of that, unfortunately he has not really been listened to, to this day.
But, despite the relentlessness of human misery, there is a tiny glimmer of hope for the main character(s), and there are moments when you cheer out loud,'you can do it..' and for those fractions of seconds when they succeed, you are laughing and crying with them...but you know that a big cloud will eventually come crashing down.
Fallada is a master of infusing his characters with life and the plot is so vivid that you can see it roll before your eyes.
Willi Kufalt is in prison as the book opens, looking forward to his imminent release.
But life on the outside turns out to be in many ways harder than life on the inside.
Whenever it seems things are beginning to go his way, his past catches up with him and life once again defeats him.
This is not one of Fallada’s best books but it’s very readable and enjoyable; a bit too long perhaps but nonetheless I very much enjoyed it and felt deeply for poor Willi Kufalt.
Willi Kufalt can’t catch a break.
Released from prison, he tries to go straight but an ex-con just doesn't get a fair shake in 1930s Germany where he’s forced to work for half what he’s worth, mistrusted by cops, and picked up for crimes he didn't commit.
And just when things seem to be going good (he’s got a job, a girlfriend, and rich prospects) things fall apart.
If “Once a Jailbird” is one of Fallada’s lesser works, I can’t wait to read “Every Man Dies Alone,” which is supposed to be his masterpiece.
There is no escaping the past, certainly not for Willi Kufalt.
No matter how far he goes or how much he tries life just refuses to be fair.
Fallada draws you masterfully into this story of trial and desperation; despite all of Kufalt's mistakes you want him to prevail, to overcome.As a critique of the German parole system in the first half of the twentieth century Once a Jailbird instills in you a desire for reform and redemption, a jailbird does not always need to be a jailbird.
As a description of life the novel honestly and unapologetically reveals the trials and temptations that anyone may fall victim to.
Classic Fallada.This is the book that got him placed on the SS' undesirable author list and it's evident why. The absolute dehumanization of the incarcerated while in prison and after their release can't be missed while you follow Willi out of prison and back into the real world of unemployment and civilians more than willing to belittle and take advantage of him. Originally released to critical acclaim, its messages continue to ring true today. Well worth the read.
I was very disappointed in this book. I enjoyed very much Fallada's book Everyone Dies Alone.This book I found very hard to follow-it may be the translation. I had a hard time figuring who said what. There may have been a lot of German slang used in the book which was hard to translate.There was not much suspense because you know things are going to go well for the main characters.
Great book. Good characters - good story... good mental representations... lots of hope and frustration and then self realization... nice apropo ending - even though you wouldnt think it in the beginning or in the during but you come to know the characters so well you feel the same peace at the end as the person in question. All is well in the world.
A man is released from a prison in the 1930s and tries to make a new life for himself in Hamburg.I found this to be an unsatisfying read. The plot was bogged down in low level detail (making the pace very slow) and the language was dry / academic in nature (but this make have been the translation).I didn’t enjoy it as much as ‘Alone in Berlin’.
This book didn't have as much impact as 'Alone in Berlin' but was still a good read. Set in pre-Nazi Germany it tells the story of a petty thief trying to make it on the outside. Quite humorous in places,and dark in others, I would recommend it.
Of the several Fallada books I've read, the classics are Every Man Dies Alone and Little Man What Now? Once a Jailbird is good, but no more. It reminded me in some ways of Döblin's Alexanderplatz Berlin, which is a much stronger and more artistic book.
The book was much too long. Could stand some editing.
