https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/567678.The_Wasp_Factory
I’ve watched too much television and seen too many nature and travel programmes not to appreciate how limited my own knowledge is in terms of first-hand experience of other places; but I don’t want to go farther afield, I don’t need to travel or see foreign climes or know different people.
Frank is sixteen years old and lives with his father on an island near a small village in Scotland.
a God.This is Iain Banks’ first novel, and some refer to this as a minor masterpiece.
a gentle coming-of-age tale set in rustic scotland, depicting the charming misadventures of a precocious lad and his idiosyncratic older brother as they struggle to understand themselves and each other.this is some hard stuff, and by "hard" i mean Hard Like the Marquis de Sade Is Hard.
one in which the protagonist struggles to move beyond his outsider status, to connect with others, to understand his distant father and his, er, 'problematic' older brother.
the ending resolves some truly dreadful plotlines in a truly dreadful manner, but also parallels the typically transformative Young Adult ending in which the hero comes to understand himself and so is able to move forward with his life.
"What are you reading?""Ehum, a book I bought at Gatwick airport last week!""Do you like it?""No.""What is it about?""Psychopaths talking about the microscopic details of their murderous actions, explaining them away with even worse psychopathic deeds that they fell victim to, watered down to banal cause-and-effect psychology!""What?
If you think it is funny to read about a child exploding, please consider this a roller coaster of the most hilarious kind.Recommended for those who would have enjoyed sitting in the Colosseum watching animals and humans tear each other apart for the entertainment of the bored SPQR.
Recommended for whoever needs a bit of sexually motivated, absurd, unrealistic violence every page or two to keep reading.
Ο συγγραφέας κατάφερε να με βάλει στο μυαλό και την ψυχολογία του πρωταγωνιστή, σε μια απόλυτα περιστροφική όψη διαταραχής, ψυχολογικής φρίκης, μυστηρίου και αναγκαστικής συνέπειας.
Όταν ο αδελφός του δραπευτεύει απο το ίδρυμα θέλοντας να επιστρέψει στο σπίτι, καταζητείται ως επικίνδυνος και το εργοστάσιο σφηκών τίθεται σε λειτουργία.
Ο Φρανκ έρχεται όλο και πιο κοντά στην ανακάλυψη του πραγματικού του εαυτού ακριβώς όπως ο αδελφός του πλησιάζει όλο και πιο κοντά στο σπίτι τους.Το εργοστάσιο σφηκών είναι ένα καταπληκτικό κομμάτι λογοτεχνικής δημιουργίας ακόμη και σαν ιδιοφυές εξάρτημα.
Απο μέσα του ξεχύνεται ένα συνονθύλευμα συναισθημάτων και εικόνων που συνοδεύουν τις εμπειρίες των χαρακτήρων.
Now we all know that dating a fictional psychopath or a sociopath can be a lot of fun. While it is true that these individuals rarely make viable candidates for a long term commitment, short term relationships have been shown to have some real upside. For example, dating a psychopath can be a “breath of fresh, adventurous air” following the end of a stale, boring and unsatisfying relationship as they are much more “uninhibited” and willing to experiment than the typical person. In addition, a p
Told in the first person by Frank, this short 200 page book is RIVETING from beginning to end as Frank slowly unfolds the history of his life.
In one early scene that sets the tone for the novel, Frank very casually mentions having killed 3 children during his young life but doesn’t plan on killing any more saying, “it was just a phase I was going through.” While Frank is detailing the history of his childhood another plot line involves the escape of Frank’s brother, Eric (another disturbed individual), from a mental hospital in Glasgow.
Frank's mother abandoned them years ago: his elder brother Eric is confined to a psychiatric hospital; & his father measures out his eccentricities on an imperial scale.
But when news comes of Eric's escape from the hospital Frank has to prepare the ground for his brother's inevitable return--an event that explodes the mysteries of the past & changes Frank utterly.My Review: Much has been said in disgust and even anger about this polarizing book.
These characters rip your fears from the base of your brain and move them, puppetlike, eerily masterful withal, into your worst nightmares.And all without resorting to the supernatural.Humanity comes off badly in this book.
Great to hear from you.
Well yes, you told me that last week.
You've written a novel, great.
Yes but – you know, first novels are not that easy to sell.
Great.
Great.
Kind of like that?
Well, impotent, sacrifices animals, dwarf, yeah, that's kind of an angle I guess.
The – you know the ad campaign is not really forming in my mind right now I gotta be honest Iain, you know what I mean, I can't see the cover… yes… yes… the brother…mentally ill… drugs… torture --- Iain, wait, wait.
Listen, if Iain Banks calls up again, I'm OUT, do you hear?
For the first time ever (in the history of my reading life) I would understand completely any rating for this book.
I cannot believe reason two happened....really I can't and in some ways makes me want to give the book 2 stars butI know this would be completely unfair and so I am going to stick to 3 strong stars.I am very glad I read this book for the vivid brilliance but also am very sore at the author for the ending which was just oh so lame !!
Frank, a teenage lad with no official record of his existence, lives with his father in an isolated dune land cottage.
He spends his time killing birds and other small animals.
Occasionally he kills people.
Even Frank considers Eric nuts.
In America, with the right weapons, Frank would certainly have wiped out half his high school class.The wasp factory itself is a combination Tarot/Ouija which gives advice in a manner worthy of Poe or Lovecraft.
Frank wants to know the best way to defend himself from Eric.
How these tensions get resolved can’t be described as conventional.
I'm sure it will be worth it in the end, right?I read the news every day so I was not the least bit surprised anyone could think like this.
The thing that did shock me was that anyone would write an entire book about this crap, and write it so poorly and without any kind of point, other than "Hey, this kid is CRAZY!" I skipped through the rabbit part when I saw what was coming, and after days of forcing myself to continue reading through the disjointed narrative I finally broke down and skimmed through to the end "twist" everyone talks about.
While Frank and his Father live together, Eric is held in a hospital some distance away in Glasgow, having had a breakdown while working as a doctor.The novel culminates in an unexpected coming together of the family but it is the secrets that are revealed around this time that will shock the reader.
The Wasp Factory has so many unexpected twists, some horror and is full of strange events that I feel I cannot speak about the plot very much at all for fear of giving away too much.
Nifty freakshow with significantly horrific tableaux which will remain with you somewhat of an eternity...
I cannot tolerate torture, and cruelty to animals, but strangely through Frank Cauldhame’s eyes, not your normal sixteen year old teenager I hasten to add, I was allowed to enter into his own special world.
He’s found to be strange by the locals as his brother Eric went crazy and they wonder whether he will follow in the same direction.Frank is very intelligent, a thinker and a dreamer but also a plotter.
There’s the Bunker, Frank’s love of slings and catapults, “The Black Destroyer” catapult being his favourite; bombs, an air rifle, killing whatever comes in his way.
(view spoiler)[ three other siblings and childhood friends killed in horrendous circumstances by Frank  (hide spoiler)]- a traumatic early childhood accident that left Frank with an unmentionable disability of his sexual organs- the always locked door to his father's study- the Wasp Factory from the title, an artefact built by Frank and imbued with mystical, prophetic powers.Trying to unravel these puzzles kept me turning the pages after every impulse to throw the book out the window after yet another account of Frank's inventive ways to torture and kill the island's critters.
The Wasp Factory had been on my radar for quite some time, a highly recommended novel from a celebrated writer that I just never seemed to get started on, always jockeying for position in my mile-high TBR pile.
The Wasp Factory is the story of a mostly calm, collected, and vicious little teenager living on a small rural island outside a Scottish town.
As I result, I found myself putting the book down for long periods, disinterested in returning to it.
Although I thought it was good, by the time I closed it I was quite happy to be done with The Wasp Factory.
What a story this was. Very competently written. There were moments where it felt like my heart was going to beat out of my chest, it was so unnerving, and others where it was surprisingly funny for something so macabre.
I've read this too many times to give a straight up reaction review, and I feel like any significant writing I might attempt on this book would necessarily become an essay.
Instead, here is what I was thinking this time through: • I love Frank.
And I think it is one of the greatest achievements of Iain Banks' career that he makes me love Frank.
I would love to bequeath my bones to my children (if they want them) or a medical school rather than being buried or cremated.• Do I spend too much time reading books?• I would give anything for one or both of these: 1.
Both sexes can do one thing specially well; women can give birth and men can kill.Sixteen-year-old obsessive compulsive Frank uses ritual and recreation to make his days fulfilling.
Whether he is torturing bugs or killing birds, it all has purpose.
Frank’s violently unstable brother Eric escapes a mental institution and decides to head home.
Frank is excited to see his brother again, so he awaits his return and their reunion.
Not for the faint of heart, this book is transgressively delightful.
Morality is subjective.
Depravity can be powerful.
The Wasp Factory is for those that feel like aliens on the wrong world.
I admit it's a narrow demographic. But if this is you, then I promise you're gonna love it.
I asked them both to "Tell me your maggot story." Neither had to think very hard.
My point is, everyone who's ever worked in the medical profession has a maggot story.
In his report, one of the EMTs said, "there's something funny with his legs.
You get a gold star for that comment.Well, Mr. Homeless Man was wearing pressure stockings under his sweatpants, likely to help keep him warm on the streets.
Like I said above, much of the shock lost its value due to scientific inaccuracies and my own life experiences.
That ending was fucking sillier than tits on a bull.
And Frank’s dispassionate narration is sometimes downright funny, as he uses the classic British understatement for his gruesome subject matter: so we find ourselves guiltily enjoying the colourful deaths of the members of the Cauldhame clan.Banks uses the crazed brain of his protagonist to mock the sacred cows of the modern world: religion, technology and politics.
Is Frank’s ingenious contraption for killing wasps, and the elaborate rituals that go along with it, much different from the intercontinental ballistic missiles developed by nations and the “rituals” surrounding the launching of the same?Ultimately, this is the biggest plus point of the book – its ability to make us think about the inherent nature of man and the whole insane and unholy relationship between his great pastimes: technology, religion and politics.
Dark. Deceptive. Dysfunctional. Disgusting. Devious. I wanted to read this for so long but the chances of me reading this increased when I saw this in 1001 books to read before you die. I was warned beforehand that this could be yucky at times but would be rewarding if I stick to the end. Since this is a real shorty at 192 pages, I just couldn't DNF it. After really hating the protagonist for first 30% of the book, I suddenly started to like him. I still can't put my finger on what changed but
Frank has an elder brother Eric who is in some hospital for his illness, so Frank and his father are the only people who lives in house which is far away from the town.
What is more shocking is that Frank has no identity i.e. for town people he was some distant relative.
family.Frank started as a 
disgusting and devious
As if things couldn't be more dense and bad, story turned really 
On the whole this story gives us an insight into Frank's mind and why he was like that.
Frank reminds me of Ronnie from Toy Story 1.
The Wasp Factory is incredibly disturbing even for a horror/thriller novel. I didn't think it was a very original book but I still liked it and found it interesting.
It should be a creepy sight: an isolated island in Scotland with two men, Frank and his father, living alone and surrounded by poles with decaying heads and sometimes bodies of animals.
He makes sure that his reader knows almost every movement that Frank does in each of the death ritual.
I supposed it’s a craft in some ways, and certainly it is quite skilled, but it get bored with it sometimes, and only thinking of the use I’ll put those little torpedoes to keep me heaving and bending away.”  Banks has all these narratives of what Frank does to his prey that would surely rise Animal Welfare advocates to a full protest if done in real life.
He was entertained by Frank's tale, but he feels The Wasp Factory is poorly written, that Banks is nothing but a sensationalist writing with overdetermination and a tendency towards the melodramatic.
It's the only Banks he has read, and my opinion incorporates a reading of most of Banks' novels, but I disagree with my friend -- both in the case of The Wasp Factory and the quality of contemporary authors.I am mostly talked out after our discussion of the other day, where we left things unconvinced by the other's arguments.
A 1997 poll of over 25,000 readers listed The Wasp Factory as one of the top 100 books of the 20th century.
A reviewer for the Irish Times wrote "It is incomprehensible that a publisher could have stooped to such levels of depravity".The Wasp Factory is written from a first person perspective, told by sixteen-year-old Frank Cauldhame.
It was just a stage I was going through.” Frank’s life is dominated by his strict adherence to personal rituals and totems—the wasp factory, built from an old clock face, being the most significant.
To Frank, the wasp factory guides him through life.
Holy Shit!
It took me one commute to read this book and it may be telling of my own psyche that I didn't actually consider Frank to be that crazy.
Eric the dog burner was blatantly bat shit crazy but Frank, despite his slightly odd proclivities relating to the collection of animal heads on sticks and wasps in "future telling" mazes appeared to be eccentric at best.
Anyway, comparatively when you examine his home environment with his dad and his brother and his allegedly crazy mother it's not surprising he was off the normal spectrum.
I enjoyed this quick and easy read and it's another one knocked off the 1001 books list.
I thought this book was wonderful and it's definitely in my top 10 of favourite books.A story about mental illness and how it affects a family. The main character and narrator Frank is very likable despite his strange and homicidal tendencies. It's written in a lovely style that makes it a pleasure to read. It's a story about childhood, family, nurture versus nature, secrets, violence, murder, mental illness, adaptability, being different & thriving despite it all. There are unexpected plot twists which keep the story interesting & astounding at times. I highly recommend it as it's basically a great story.
The story was told in from the first person POV of Frank and we followed him through the sometimes mundane but more often bizarre and twisted events of his daily life.
We also got stories of his past that gave us a glimpse into his strange upbringing.
The other bit of excitement was provided by the fact that Frank's mentally unstable brother, Erik, had escaped from prison and was making his way back home.
Frank is clearly insane but still proves an endearing and compelling narrator despite that fact!
«Δυο χρόνια αφότου είχα σκοτώσει τον Μπλάιδ, δολοφόνησα τον μικρό μου αδελφό, τον Πωλ, για εντελώς διαφορετικούς και σίγουρα πιο σοβαρούς λόγους, και έναν χρόνο μετά τον Πωλ σκότωσα τη μικρή μου ξαδέλφη Εσμεράλντα, μάλλον από σκέτο καπρίτσιο και χωρίς λόγο.
Ένα ατύχημα που άλλαξε τον κόσμο του Frank, περιθωριοποιώντας τον και οδηγώντας τον αναπόφευκτα σε πράξεις εκδίκησης.
Κι ο έφηβος ψυχοπαθής της ιστορίας μας ανακαλύπτει πως ίσως όλα έγιναν για το τίποτε, πως όλα αυτά τα χρόνια η ζαλισμένη σφήκα που τριγυρνούσε στον δίσκο των ωρών ήταν ο ίδιος του ο εαυτός.
