https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397503.I_Served_the_King_of_England
Instead I read this:When I started to work at the Golden Prague Hotel, the boss took hold of my left ear, pulled me up, and said, You're a busboy here, so remember, you don't see anything and you don't hear anything.
We meet sometime before Christmas, in some place that serves alcoholic beverages, and, in turn, announce our top ten books of the year list.
But, as I said, I started I Served the King of England Tuesday.
By the time Ditie had to masturbate for the Nazi doctors (Wednesday on my calendar), I had to see whether he passed the ethnic purity test.
The handicapped nature of Ditie's and Lise's child is another ironic, powerfully piercing twist of the dagger in Hitler's ideology.With Hrabal's signature taste for the absurd direction of Fate, his hero becomes the millionaire of his dreams but through the establishment of communism, loses that long sought-for stature, along with the freedom he thought it would afford him.The final portions of Ditie's story are the most poignant, with a theme that the author often uses in his novels: memories, self reflection, and the expectations of one's life.

As I already mentioned, Ditie doesn't actually service the King of England, yet the phrase comes to define his life, the turning point of his career, the eye opener and later the acceptance of his failures together with his successes.
The payoff from these lessons and observations will come only when Ditie learns about pain and loss and the imminence of death, watching young men departing for the war, leaving their loved one behind ( I learned to see the countryside, the flowers on the tables, the children at play, and to see that every hour is a sacrament )Other mentors in Ditie's waiting career will urge him to to keep his ears open without hearing, keep his eyes open without seeing.
Rečenice su sami hiperbatoni, asi – i polisindeti, ludi vrtlozi apozicija, kolaži metafora i digresija koji se često protegnu na nekoliko strana, pri čemu čitalac, svraćajući na čašicu bizara u svaki sokačić na koji se rečenica izračvala, bistre glave isprati svaki detalj i nikad ne izgubi iz vida celi šizofreni mozaik.Ovim je Hrabal postigao dve stvari: najpre, potpunu distancu i još potpuniju uverljivost prvog lica: sve je u intonaciji glupkastog i neobrazovanog, ali drsko ambicioznog praškog pomoćnog kelnera isfrustriranog svojim niskim rastom i društvenim statusom, sasvim rasterećenog svake moralnosti.
γκροτεσκα ματιά του στο κόσμο, κοιτώντας αυτόν τον κόσμο γύρω του με τα απορημένα μάτια ενός μεγάλου παιδιού, με την αγαθή...πονηριά του, τις γλυκές ερωτικές του περιπέτειες, τα απίστευτα περιστατικά που γίνονται πραγματικότητα, την επαγγελματική επιμονή του ως σερβιτόρος και την αδιορατη συμμετοχή του στα ιστορικά γεγονότα της Τσεχίας.
Μέσα από τα μάτια αυτού του μεγάλου παιδιού ο Χραμπαλ προσπαθεί να εξηγήσει τον κόσμο και τους ανθρώπους οδηγώντας σταδιακά τον ήρωα του στην γνώση του εαυτού του και της ζωής, διδάσκοντας στις τελευταίες 70 σελίδες ένα μάθημα ανθρωπισμού και αληθινής εικόνας του ανθρώπου που μόνο ένας μικρός και ασήμαντος άνθρωπος της άγνωστης καθημερινότητας θα μπορούσε να δώσει...
Στα υπέρ του βιβλίου η ειρωνική χιουμοριστικη και χειμαρωδης αφήγηση που δεν γνωρίζει τελείες και παραγράφους, όπως η γραφή ενός μεγάλου παιδιού!
Ficava mesmo chateada quando era obrigada a interromper a leitura!O narrador conta-nos a história da sua vida, recheada de episódios fantásticos/fantasiosos/fantasiados, que nos envolvem numa espécie de magia à qual somos de vez em quando arrancados e devolvidos à realidade de forma brutal.Gostei da escrita, ao mesmo tempo despretensiosa e quase poética, e da forma como senti que se ia subtilmente alterando para reflectir a evolução do protagonista - mas pode ter sido só impressão minha...E gostei da "explicação necessária" do final, embora tenha de ler outras obras do autor para perceber se a forma como esta foi escrita se deveu realmente ao que ele refere ou se traduz um estilo próprio.Altamente recomendado!So good!I really enjoyed this story, especially the way it's told, virtually with no pauses, making you read it almost without breathing.
It tells the story of Ditie, an impoverished youth who starts work selling hot dogs in a train station and works his way up through the service industry as life around him is torn asunder by the second World War.I wasn't quite sure what to make of this novel at first, with its page-long sentences, dearth of female characters and absurdist, fairy-tale undertones.
As he moved through the ranks of restaurant service, I also got caught up in the story of the German invasion as seen through the eyes of a Czech who had the luck/misfortune to fall in love with a German nurse.Though buffeted on the winds of fate both good and bad, Ditie comes through it all with a remarkably clear-eyed understanding of his place in history.
“I Served the King of England” is a highly entertaining story about how the unbelievable comes true many times over for Ditě.
(view spoiler)[Chief among them is Mr. Skrivanek, the lead waiter in Hotel Paris, who claims to have served the King of England.
(view spoiler)[The episode that stands out is the visit of the Emperor of Ethiopia to Hotel Paris and the feast of the stuffed camel that catapulted Ditě to distinction, an honor that served him for the rest of his life.
(hide spoiler)]Read “I Served the King of England”.
Last seen hunting mongrels to smuggle into the purebred boudoirs of gullible dowagers , he emerges, after a Van Winklian absence, in the novels and persona of Bohumil Hrabal, arguably central Europe's greatest pure novelist of the post WWII era (by "pure novelist" here I mean something like what sportswriters mean when they describe a basketball player as a "pure shooter" or "pure point guard": nobility, heredity, mystical powers).
It affirms without being coy and bubbles without being annoying, in part because B.H is never afraid of reminding us (as Hasek liked to) that his hero is an idiot.
Well then number Hrabal where he belongs, among Davenport's "secret Christians".
Kind of like Friar Tuck.
И така аз, пътният кантонер, който всяка събота до вечерта засядаше в кръчмата, колкото по-дълго седях там, толкова повече се предоставях на хората, толкова повече мислех и за кончето си отвън пред кръчмата, за гнетящата ме самото в моя нов дом, виждах как всички хора ми затъмняват онова, което исках да видя и позная, че всички просто си се забавляват, както се бях забавлявал и аз, всички отлагат за по-късно онова, чийто отговор един ден трябва да открият, ако имат късмет, разбира се, да имат време за това преди смъртта...
Eu tinha apenas acabado de chegar ao Hotel Na Cidade Dourada de Praga quando o patrão me pegou pela orelha esquerda e, puxando-a disse: «A partir de agora és o groom aqui, e não te esqueças: tu não viste nada, não ouviste nada! Repete!». Respondi então que não tinha visto nada nem ouvido nada, no hotel. A seguir o patrão puxou-me pela orelha direita e disse: «Mas não te esqueças também que tens que ver tudo e ouvir tudo! Repete!» Então repeti, admirado que veria tudo e ouviria tudo. E assim com
Eu tinha apenas acabado de chegar ao Hotel Na Cidade Dourada de Praga quando o patrão me pegou pela orelha esquerda e, puxando-a disse: «A partir de agora és o groom aqui, e não te esqueças: tu não viste nada, não ouviste nada!
Respondi então que não tinha visto nada nem ouvido nada, no hotel.
A seguir o patrão puxou-me pela orelha direita e disse: «Mas não te esqueças também que tens que ver tudo e ouvir tudo!
Assistiu à ocupação da Checoslováquia pela Alemanha, cumpre o sonho de se tornar um proprietário de hotel milionário, mas perde tudo com a instauração do comunismo.
Ainda por cima, as cenas eróticas são de uma sensualidade avassaladora, que amante ficaria indiferente às ideias sensuais de um jovem que, pelos vistos, não teria grandes atrativos físicos, mas que soube, desde o primeiro dia, converter as suas fantasias em algo definido entre a luxúria, o prazer e o sentido estético.Muita criatividade, muita imaginação, muito sentido de humor mas também muita tristeza, muita solidão (é incrível a cena dos espelhos já quase no fim do livro), muita adaptação a realidades diferentes, muitos confrontos com as várias tonalidades que a vida encerra.
حیرتانگیز
حیرت‌انگیز
Με κούρασε, με εκνεύρισε...βαρέθηκα. Με ανούσιες τεράστιες προτάσεις με έκταση από μισή έως 1,5 σελίδα πραγματικά δεν ένιωσα τίποτα εκτός από εκνευρισμό. Δεν συμπάθησα ούτε και αντιπάθησα τον αδιάφορο πρωταγωνιστή. Πάω παρακάτω....
І от я вирішила, що часу минуло достатньо, щоб перевірити перше враження.Що тут скажеш, другого такого, як Грабал, нема і, мабуть, не буде.Я завжди уявляю його собі таким, як ото на тій світлині на звороті — за гальбою пива в затишній кнайпі захоплено розповідає якісь побрехеньки.
Так, можливо, вона "піде" не всім.
Але цілком можливо, що з неї почнеться ваша велика любов до Грабала.Також надсилаю віртуальні цьомки і обійми пану Юрію Винничуку, що він є перфектним перекладачем Богуміла Грабала, та й чи не єдиним його популяризатором в Україні (хто не знає, він також переклав збірку малих творів "Вар'яти").
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. I bought this book during my trip to Prague as part of my project to get a book or two in each new country I visit. Now, this is not my first Czech book, but I wanted to try a new Czech author nevertheless.In my opinion, one of the best things about the book was actually the foreword. Unfortunately, I don't have the book right now, so I can't mention the author of the foreword, but they wrote a very informative, interesting and engaging analysis of both
Unfortunately, I don't have the book right now, so I can't mention the author of the foreword, but they wrote a very informative, interesting and engaging analysis of both "I Served the King of England", and Hrabal's literature in general.
Not knowing the author, it really helped me see some tendencies in his writing and in the themes he uses.The book itself was not exactly to my liking.
It's always the kind of description of sex which makes you feel uncomfortable and in need of a hot shower and a lot of scrubbing.This is how I felt while reading this book.
This is one of the rare cases where I saw the movie well before I read the book. In part, I think my reaction to the book is because of what I saw with movie. Tracing the rise and fall of a busboy during the mid-1900s, I Served the King of England is a brew of humor, strangeness and beauty. It is impossible, though the movie came very close; to capture the absolute beauty of the language, even as it appears in translated form. It’s strange because it is the beauty of the language that possesses
This is one of the rare cases where I saw the movie well before I read the book.
In part, I think my reaction to the book is because of what I saw with movie.
It is impossible, though the movie came very close; to capture the absolute beauty of the language, even as it appears in translated form.
It’s strange because it is the beauty of the language that possesses the book, not any feeling toward the narrator who only really seems to become a member of the human race at the end, where he identifies with his animals.
"But I didn't want to be seen by human eyes anymore, or praised for what I'd done—all of that had left me." (226)I lived in Prague for almost seven years, from the age of nine to fourteen.
I was too young at the time to have a sense of Czech literature, of course, but I'm trying to make up for it – retrospectively – by reading more Czech authors (aside from the more obvious choice of Kundera).
This actually goes for the literatures of all the countries in which I've lived; sadly, I only started seriously reading when I came back to the Netherlands to study.
But I'll definitely read more by Hrabal – his style was rather unique.
აქამდე ჩემი საყვარელი თხრობის სტილი მესამე პირის ნაამბობი იყო მთავარ პერსონაჟზე და ახლა მგონი ახალი ფავორიტი მაქვს pabeni-ს სახით.ზღაპარივით იკითხება და თარგმანიც ძალიან კაია.სიამოვნებით წავიკითხავდი მწერლის სხვა წიგნებსაც.5/5
Роман, написаний на одному подиху, без абзаців - про долю офіціанта в Чехії 20 століття.
Мої враження від книжки вже трохи були визначені наперед фільмом, тому я трохи наперед вважала, що це твір про розраховування чехів зі своїм складним минулим і сумнівне вміння погодитися з кожною владою, яка проходила.
Іронія роману робить все, про що йдеться трагікомічним і здається що лише чехи можуть написати історію 20 століття без пафосу і з усіма нюансами.
Але роман Грабала, насправді, не тільки про історію, але й про те, як людина шукає сильнішу сторону і грається в життя як у рулетку, бо неможливо передбачити де та сильніша сторона буде згодом.
Foundationally, it is written by someone who understands what it means to be on your feet all day, which won me over from the beginning because it does feel like this: That was the other side of my tuxedo, the other side of all waiters and busboys and maître d's the world over: white starched shirts and dazzling white rubber collars and legs slowly turning black, like some horrible disease where people start dying from the feet up (14).I hate violence, but could love people who fought like this over romanticism and realismThey'd have discussions and read books, and they even put on plays, but about every two weeks the boss's wife would into passionate arguments with her husband, and they would disagree so violently about romanticism or realism or Smetana and Janáček that they would start pouring wine over each other and hitting each other.And Zdeněk?
دیتی یکی از اون شخصیت های به یاد موندنیه که تا مدت ها می تونه همراه آدم باقی بمونه و کتاب هم البته کتاب دوست داشتنی ای هستش.داستان خدمتکار قد کوتاه و ریز جثه ی جاه طلب که حتا یک دقیقه هم دست از رویا پردازی و خواستن نمی کشه و درنهایت هم از پس جمله های خنده دار و داستان های "باور نکردنی "و انبوه حماقت ها و منفعت طلبی های باز هم "باور نکردنی "تمام رویاهاش رو توو بیداری زندگی می کنه:درست مثل صاحب کار های قبلیش با زن های زیبا معاشرت می کنه، درست مثل پولدارتریناشون با اسکناس هاش می تونه خونه اش رو چند بار فرش کنه، مثل اشراف زاده ترینشون خرج کنه و سکه هاش رو از پنجره پرت کنه بیرون و صاحب بهترین هتل ممکن بشه .

I don't read much fiction these days, but when I do, I often go for or back to Hrabal.
Even though Kundera is probably the best known Czech writer (and another favorite) Hrabal is considered the grandaddy.
Hrabal reminds me of Hemingway via Bukowski — short, boozy and punchy.
This was my first read of Hrabal and probably still my favorite.
I've read that much of what makes Hrabal so great is lost in the translation.
I'll never know but the english translation of I Served the King of England nails that dreamy chance-happenings quality.
არამხოლოდ ინგლისის მეფეს, ხარისხიანი ლიტერატურის წარმოჩენასაც ემსახურება ეს წიგნი.
I know the (excellent) work of Stefan Zweig was the direct inspiration of The Grand Budapest Hotel, but it's almost difficult to believe that I Served the King of England didn't play some role.
After all, it's the story of the remarkable misadventures of a Middle European hotelier who tries to cope with Nazism, Bolshevism, and his own piss-poor luck.
Which sucks, because the same sensibility that appreciates Wes Anderson will probably appreciate this.
Este libro podría llamarse también Las aventuras del pequeño Dítie, o Yo serví al Emperador de Etiopía; lo mismo da.
Y en cada capítulo desarrolla las aventuras de este hombre pequeño en el ámbito de los restaurantes; cada capítulo una etapa, con su estilo siempre jovial y optimista.
Las vicisitudes históricas por las que pasa Chequia, sobre todo bajo el dominio nazi, son un tenue telón de fondo; lo que importa, y tal vez tenga su parte de razón, es el personaje, eternamente optimista, y sus aventuras.
Un libro, como tal vez pretendía Hrabal, para atenuar el drama.
È difficile dare un'idea di cos'è questo libro.Posso dirvi che parla di come l'ambizione ci spinga a comportamenti impensabili, salvo poi lasciarci a riflettere su cosa siamo davvero, a prescindere da cosa vogliamo essere.Ma io non sono così profonda, e quindi vi dico che di questo libro ho amato la potenza delle immagini evocate, l'ironia, la bellezza nascosta in cose apparentemente brutte, gli aneddoti tanto incredibili quanto potenzialmente veri, un flusso di coscienza che è, invece, azione pura e, ancora, la tenerezza mascherata da cinismo.Menzione speciale per Zdenek e Sigfried.E, ricordate: basta un niente, e l'impossibile diventa realtà.
ყურადღებით უსმინეთ, იან დიტე ბევრს გიამბობთ :)
