https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11275.The_Wind_Up_Bird_Chronicle
Then the cold calling sex woman rang again and this time she said that she couldn't quite tell me how she knew this but she knew something was going to happen to me but she did not say when it would.
I had a feeling that in this novel things would continue to happen but the things would all be made of blancmange, a tasteless gooey substance which looks a little like wallpaper paste but isn't.
And the people in the novel would all be not really real but also not really not real, if you know what I mean.
But things only gets strange and stranger from there - dreams spill into reality, lines between natural and supernatural are smudged, a guy sitting deep down in a well digs into his subconscious, a boy's personality is stolen by the devil, a miraculous blue mark on a cheek heals people....unusual characters drift in, tell their unusual stories and leave.
But getting to the end of the book was also like being rudely woken up from the most wonderful dream.
He questions the national identity as well while exploring some horrifying stories about the second world war.
WATER IS GOOD! You, the politician with the psychopath eyes on the T.V.! I hate you! Russian schemingWhere the fuck is my cat?!!! And why did I name him after you Mr. Psychopath EYES!WarBloodDeathZoo animals?My dreams are wack, yo – but WAIT! Are they really dreams?! No way man, I totally did it with her for real.Skinning people aliveWacky woman with the Huge red hat, tell me! Are you a psychic OR ARE YOU NOT?!What a cool walkway between the HOUSES!telephonetelephoneRing, Ring, Ring: Hellloooo -
And why did I name him after you Mr. Psychopath EYES!WarBloodDeathZoo animals?My dreams are wack, yo – but WAIT!
Are you a psychic OR ARE YOU NOT?!What a cool walkway between the HOUSES!telephonetelephoneRing, Ring, Ring: Hellloooo -- Damnit Bitch, SHOW YOUR FACE!Write me a letter?
And it’s all connected in some grasping, magical, meaningful wayWhat????
He creates scattered, strange, fragmented, powerful images that end up connecting with just-the-right timing, creating something indescribable, yet satisfying.
recognize the ingenious connections that exist, but don’t directly analyze.
I don't think Murakami's a hack, and I know that everybody except me thinks he's a genius, and I also understand- or, more specifically, have had it angrily explained to me- that my dislike for Murakami has to do with me being an American asshole who can't see through her own cultural imperialism enough to appreciate the way Japanese people like Murakami write novels.
I mean, probably it's a very culturally Japanese sort of unease that doesn't speak to me, but 200 pages in, I'm just like, whatever.
Only like 10 books or so in this world could be made of actual MAGIC.
They are entities so far out of this world they indeed resemble pariahs, belonging to their own orbit & following their own sets of rules that it is your utmost privilege to read them, to find out for yourself why it is that they stick to the collective psyche of an entire literati!This profound take on life & reality is so complex, so incredibly well-orchestrated, thought-out...
English (The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle) / ItalianoA great experience.More than reading a novel, I feel like I've lived the life of another, like when you wake up from a dream in which you played the part of a fearless hero, doing actions you never could have done.Toru Okada is thirty years old and leads an ordinary life with his wife Kumiko.
He simultaneously broke the first two rules by constantly adding explanations and observations that ruined any amount of mystery or subtlety that might have existed in this pseudo-detective story, effectively communicating to the audience "I don't trust you to read this novel correctly, so I'm going to fully explain each situation and character in detail so you can't possibly misunderstand me." While Wind-Up Bird didn't employ traditional clichés, the constant introduction of psychic characters who simply "know" things because they were "supposed to know" became trite and suggested laziness of the author.
Murakami meticulously illustrates this quietly painful existence in all of Mr. Wind-Up Bird's movements, whether it is missed phone calls, a wasted dinner, or a frozen statue of a bird never able to take flight.
This sort of language kept me going throughout the book even when I lost my patience with other things.Mr. Wind-Up Bird's relationship with May Kashara was my favorite part of the book.
She is a wonderful character who brings light and movement to the pages, and pushes the plot along, if only in Mr. Wind-Up Bird's head.
Toru Okada recently quit his job at the law office and has been spending his time alone in the house all day while his wife, Kumiko, goes to work.
Toru hates Noboru Wataya and is confused by this turn in events, even more so when Kumiko doesn't seem to come home one night, leading him to set out to search for her and get caught in a complex web all pertaining to Noboru Wataya.This was my first Haruki Murakami book and I really enjoyed it, it's definitely a new favorite.
It's only four stars because I feel like I need to read it again, and maybe again and again, to truly appreciate all that is contained within these 600 beautiful pages.
There's a plot and all that, but there is also so much more going on, there are so many layers, such complexity woven into the fabric of he story that I don't think I can truly appreciate it just reading it one time through.
I feel like seeing the beginning again now that I know everything would make the experience so much richer.
It starts as sort of a detective story in which Toru Okada searches for his wife’s missing cat in their Tokyo suburb.
Did the search for the cat trigger all the craziness that swirls around Toru or had everything already been set in motion?
And if Toru’s descent into darkness had already been set in motion, had it begun with the Japanese invasion of Manchuria, a secret from his wife’s childhood or was there something more recent which was responsible?
The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle is a long book, full of crazy characters and crazy digressions.
Ξέρει να στήνει με την πένα του σκηνικά και εικόνες φανταστικά πραγματικές απο τις οποίες αποκλειεται να μην μαγευτείς ή να μην παρασυρθείς στη γοητεία της αφήγησης του.
Απο κει και μετα ένας απλός μοναχικός άνθρωπος καλοσυνάτος και τρυφερά ευκολόπιστος ή μοιρολάτρης αρχίζει τον μονόλογο της μοναξιάς και της ωριμότητας κάνοντας ταξίδια στα στερεμενα πηγαδια του εαυτού του.
Σιγά-σιγά και σαγηνευτικά όλη η πλοκή του βιβλίου σε παρασύρει με γοητεία και αμείωτο ενδιαφέρον σε καταστάσεις γεμάτες συναίσθημα,έρωτα και φανταστικής αφήγησης που σε εκπλήσσει και σε ελκύει έντονα με σκοπό να μπορέσεις να ξετυλιξεις μαζί του αυτό το κουβάρι αισθήσεων και παραισθήσεων.
When I got there, that alley was dead at both ends, Just me, a black cat and a few of its friends." Paul Bryant's ReviewPaul Bryant has written an excellent parody of Murakami in his review of "The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle".It absolutely nailed Haruki Murakami's writing style in this book:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
This is a beautiful multi-level story in typical Murakami fashion with plenty of imagery and fascinating characters.
I loved the story, the writing style, and just about everything that was in these 600+ pages.
Anecdote: I told one neighbour in Paris about this book over ten years ago and it quickly made the tour of the building and the surrounding neighbourhood.
About two years later someone from a different part of the city thanked me for mentioning the book to the original person because she had loved it.
I adore this book and wish I could carry my enthusiasm for it to Murakami's other works.
But in contrast to Wind-Up Bird Chroncle, those I've read disappoint.
(Kafka On the Shore devolved into some wretchedly bad writing after the first half.
Or was it wretchedly bad translation?
I wish I knew.) Anyway, I have read Wind-Up Bird twice and will read it again.
My favorite part is the sequence set during World War II near the Khalkha River in Outer Mongolia.
It is not a war story by any means, but is set for the most part in booming Tokyo during the 1980s.
Murakami starts plot points, presents us with new mysteries and characters, and then he gets distracted by something and forgets to resolve the stuff he told us would be important.
I tried to start this review by summarizing the plot, but then I realized I couldn't.
First there was the little spurts of misogyny that kept popping up, and then there was May Kashahara, who is sort of a like a Lolita/Manic Pixie Dreamgirl monster.
She is inexplicably attracted to our hero, because obviously, and she says supremely irritating Manic Pixie Dreamgirl things like "People like me don't get along well with dictionaries" which, aside from being one of the most annoying sentences I've ever read, also makes no fucking sense.
And can Toru navigate an ocean of strangeness to get her back?Back when I first joined Goodreads, one of the first things I noticed was how a novel I'd never heard of, The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, got so much praise from Goodreaders.
When I read Kumiko's letter about why she left, I felt as betrayed as Toru must have felt.Like I said, I dug it but I didn't love it.
Not once did I contemplate taking days off work just to read it, nor did I feel like it was a life changing event.That's about all I can articulate about The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle at this time.
If I were to use only one word to describe this book, I would type the word 'brilliant' a million times with each letter in CAPITALS and fill up the entire word length of this particular space.In all its sensitivity, emotional depth and keen understanding of the complications of the human mind The Wind Up Bird Chronicle is a stellar work of literature and a tour de force.
Honestly I could write a whole damn book if I'm to review every aspect of one particular Murakami novel.All this time I had subconsciously developed an intense desire of knowing Murakami's opinions on Japan's infamous role in World War II.
The first part, "The Thieving Magpie", begins with the narrator, Toru Okada, a low-key unemployed lawyer's assistant, who is tasked by his wife, Kumiko, to find their missing cat.
Kumiko suggests looking in the alley, a closed-off strip of land existing behind their house.
She invites him over to her house in order to sit on the patio and look over an abandoned house that she says is a popular hangout for stray cats.
The abandoned house is revealed to possibly contain some strange omen, as it had brought bad luck to all of its prior tenants.
Toru receives sexual phone calls from a woman who says she knows him.
Murakami's The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle is actually probably the best novel I've read in a long time.
Whatever the case, everything is connected through gossamer tendrils of fate and pain and anguish and collective identity.And then there's the wind-up bird, the unseen bird whose cry sounds like a spring being wound—the bird who winds up the world, a stand-in for fate who propels things and people to and fro, loosing and staunching the flow of life and the stream of reality.This was the second book of Murakami's I have indulged—the first was [book:Kafka on the Shore, a number of years ago—and I can't wait to read it again.
Tal vez, sólo tengo para objetar (aunque no creo que sea adecuada esa palabra) que incurre en la redundancia sobre las cosas habituales que hacen los personajes (poner a hacer café, limpiar esto, aquello, comer, ordenar la casa, etc.), todo ello con demasiado detallismo, lo que produce una desatención del lector a la historia propiamente dicha, pero a la que se termina acostumbrando.
Spend your time on the things money can’t buy.” ― Haruki Murakami, The Wind-Up Bird ChronicleA weird metaphysical (I KNOW it is a bit redundant to start off ANY review of Murakami by dressing it up in adjectives like weird & metaphysical) novel.
I think I'm reading Wind-Up Bird Chronicle at exactly the right point for me, but just because I would have liked to carry that book with me like some form of lucky talisman during the last 17 years (kinda like what I did with Infinite Jest).
Cuesta hacerla cuando un libro te deja en una especie de deriva mental.
Sin embargo, me decían que no era el mejor de él y que debería leer Crónica del pájaro que da cuerda al mundo.
Bueno, aquí estoy, escribiendo esto, a punto de decir lo mucho que me gustó y lo bien que reivindicó la imagen que tenía yo de este autor.Esta obra, aunque extensa, no se me hizo eterna en ningún momento.
Está de más decir que Crónica del pájaro que da cuerda al mundo lo recomiendo muchísimo.
Y el camino de esta obra es alucinante, no me dio respiro.
I’ve read quite a few of Murakami’s books in the past few years and it’s caused me to reflect on my feelings about this one, which I worked my way through in late summer 2013.
Beware; it is a weighty and sometimes complex piece.
But that aside, the whole piece is an affecting and thought provoking narrative.
The settings of his books always take me to unfamiliar places that are culturally different from anything I’ve yet to experience.
A handful of his books are amongst a very small percentage of all the books I’ve read that I’m likely to re-visit one day.
I can't believe this isn't an anime by now.While this book is quite plot heavy, it does delight with its subtleties and interesting shifts in form and perspective so fear not literature seekers!
It has all the standards, weird sex (mutating women with cat tails?) and an over-sexualized teenage girl hanging out with a mid-30's male which nobody finds creepy, but try to get past that if so because this book is a pure delight.
I know what I would like to happen, but Murakami tends to avoid my expectations.So I'll read on..
Don't believe for a second that Ido "get it", but by saying Murakami leaves a lot of "loose ends" is a cop out to me, and I think with critical care and attention, a lot of these can be tied up..But what do I know?
That the "real" Kumiko never really left Toru, etc., etc.But this is what a book like this can do to a person.
The relevance of this to me is to ask a related question: Can it be said, in the same vein, “In Nyquil, naked truth?” Or if not naked truth, inanity?
It may not be the best idea to analgize and analyze or medicate and encapsulate, but sadly enough, it’s all I’ve got.[Me, in bed; tossing, turning, stealing covers, kicking covers off, with inner voice blathering.]“This is a dream, right?
I’m a Murakami character.
It’s catharsis time, right?
I really think this time I’m on the verge of something profound.
It doesn’t know any boundaries between real and surreal, and it might propel you to follow him into that world by winding-up your spring..Creaaak.Before starting with this book, I overheard a little conversation between three readers:“So, what are your thoughts about the latest Murakami offering?”Independent on Sunday said,” Oh Murakami!
It was like, as if God himself got tired of looking at the most dull and monotonous life of this good-for-nothing man and thought of having some fun at Toru’s expense and threw one twist after another to make him move his lazy ass to Save his World.
Yet, one understands from the first lines that one will have no difficulty in swallowing it, as one is aspired by the semi-existential and half-existentialist atmosphere that surrounds it.Once again it is a question of following a narrator whose banal life slowly but surely slips into the Symbolist surreal.
At first it's only a matter of lost cat and bizarre anonymous phone calls, and then emerge one by one strange characters: a prince of artful media, a young teen dapper and mischievous, two medium sisters to blur aspirations, a wounded veteran of the Sino-Japanese wars...
He delivers us an altered truth that we adopt without any reticence.
After all, as he himself says, truth is not always in reality.
What can I say? This was one weird, yet incredible ride! This was my first introduction to Magical Realism and to Murakami. And one that I can and will recommend to anyone who asks and to those who don't. I won't give a summary here, because I cannot. All I can say is this..... This won't be the last time I will read this novel and I am sure more work by Murakami will follow (already ordered 1Q84). This novel really had, to use a phrase by some TV personality, the WOW-factor for me!
