https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102575.Dagon_and_Other_Macabre_Tales
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my GIFTS AND GUILTY list.Regardless of how many books are already queued patiently on my reading list, unexpected gifts and guilt-trips will always see unplanned additions muscling their way in at the front.I hated this book. I mean, I really hated this book.W
collects Lovecraft's longer works, and these are goods.
Given a proper plot to hang a few thousand words around, Lovecraft crafted some wonderfully tense, creepy tales, where the horror is hinted at more than seen directly.
collects Lovecraft's shorter works, and these are not so good.
And after reading dozens of repetitive short stories in quick succession you start to feel the patterns emerging, the recurring underlying world-view - let's be frank; the racism.
(yes, I read every page because I'm frakking stubborn about finishing books once I've committed to them) - unless you're a serious student of Lovecraft-esque weird - just don't bother.
3.5Written in 1917, Dagon announces both The Call of Cthulhu and The Shadow Over Innsmouth.
Inhabitants of Innsmouth were members of the Cult of Dagon.
A short, but no less significant story.It is a testimony of a morphine addict of what brought him where he is and why he is contemplating suicide.
After days of floating, he finds land, but it's nothing he had seen before.
He has to wait for three days to be able to walk to the mountain he sees.There, he finds a monolith depicting one of the Elder Gods.
People he sees depicted on the monolith have what would later be called the Innsmouth look.
Descubrí a Lovecraft en torno a mis 18 o 20 años y tuve mi racha de lecturas del mismo autor.
Sin embargo, este libro de cuentos terroríficos sí que me gustó.
La ambientación, tal como sugiere el título español, es de lo más macabra.
Como curiosidad, diré que hay una película hispano-norteamericana basada en ese cuento (y con el mismo título) que también me gustó por su ambientación inquietante.
Y como curiosidad de la curiosidad, en ella actúa Paco Rabal, que habla un Spanglish que pone a los anglosajones los pelos de punta.
3.9   "Es una lastima que la mayor parte de la humanidad tenga una visión mental tan limitada a la hora de sopesar con calma y con inteligencia aquellos fenómenos aislados, vistos y sentidos sólo por unas pocas personas psíquicamente sensibles, que acontecen más allá de la experiencia común".   Dagón 3/5La tumba 4/5Polaris 3/5Más allá del mundo del sueño 4/5La Nave Blanca 5/5Arthur Jermyn 4/5Los gatos de Ulthar 3/5Celephais 5/5Del más allá 5/5El templo 4/5El árbol 3/5El pantano de la luna 3/5Lo
Dagón 3/5La tumba 4/5Polaris 3/5Más allá del mundo del sueño 4/5La Nave Blanca 5/5Arthur Jermyn 4/5Los gatos de Ulthar 3/5Celephais 5/5Del más allá 5/5El templo 4/5El árbol 3/5El pantano de la luna 3/5Los otros dioses 3/5La búsqueda de Iranon 4/5Herbert West, reanimator 5/5El sabueso 5/5Hipnos 4/5El horror oculto 4/5Lo innombrable 3/5
Pero si puedo decir que consigue erizarme el vello de los brazos, y en ocasiones, consigue otro tipo de respuestas emocionales en mi persona, sobretodo cuando comienza algunos relatos siendo un poco "" autobiográfico "".
No me terminó de convencer el relato entero.El pantano de la luna: La tozudez del protagonista me impide darle más estrellas.
One of Lovecraft's earlier stories, and the first one mentioning one of the so-called Elder Gods who become part of his "Cthulhu mythos."It's very short and full of the windy prose Lovecraft is famous for.
He hikes over the island until he discovers a strange monolith with strange fishy symbols on it...The story ends the way most Lovecraft stories do, with the narrator going insane, warning of unspeakable horror, and being ignored by the rest of the world.
The window!You can read it online here.This isn't one of ol' HPL's strongest stories, being an early one, but you can see all the tropes he will reuse again and again.
Još jedna dobra zbirka psiholoških horor priča: užasi pokušaja oživljavanja mrtvih tela, ekshumacije
Lovecraft captures a real sense of palpable, growing horror.
Lovecraft's version of the Frankenstein story, throwing in zombies in a serialised magazine format.
Stuart Gordon's 1985 film captures the spirit of these stories pretty accurately, I feel.THE HOUND sees the author tackling grave robbing, and a fine fist of it he makes too.THE FESTIVAL is loathsome and horrible.
THE UNNAMABLE sees Lovecraft at an early stage of his career, tackling themes and ideas he would later return to.
THE BEAST IN THE CAVE was Lovecraft's first 'proper' story, written at 15 and unpolished but entertaining.
THE ALCHEMIST is more teenage Lovecraft, and quite atmospheric if insubstantial, story-wise.
I feel like there was a real variety within this collection, and I was introduced to several new styles that I didn't know Lovecraft attempted.Many of these stories were solid sci-fi, taking place on other planets.
I found most of these just as entertaining as Lovecraft's horror.
There were also several stories writen with co-authors (one even said it was co-writen with Harry Houdini!) These stories, while good, had a different feel to them than the typical Lovecraftian story, but they were also entertaining.Overall, this was a great collection.
There is a large variety of styles and genres.
This was a very short story, but the writing is taut and transports you to a strange land vividly.Without wishing to spoil this, it reminded me a lot of 2001 A Space Odessey, with the mysterious appearance of apparently alien relics and the potential of the unknown.Whilst it was tied up neatly as a short story I feel this had the legs ot be developed, but I am starting to see how good Lovecraft's early work is.
A mixed bag of tales: the best are Poe-like evocations of atmospheric eeriness; the worst are either repetitive or silly.
Bueno, habiendo leído un montón de libros de Howard Phillips, me di cuenta de que en este volumen, él expone un basto conocimiento de mitología griega.
Me encantó uno en particular, llamado La búsqueda de Iranon", el cual me recordó a"Pan" del increíble Knut Hamsun.
Después de leerlo me di cuenta de que casi todo escritor prolífico, es amante o erudito de la mitología griega o de los clásicos latinos.Nota: si ven reviews de 1 o 2 estrellas, hagan caso omiso; es gente cojuda que ni siquiera sabe quién fue Plutarco.
Ideal recopilación de relatos cortos de su época "onírica" para iniciarte en este autor. Los que más me gustaron: "La tumba", "El árbol" y "Dagón".
Al igual que considero 'Herbert West, reanimador' uno de los relatos más macabros jamás escritos.Para disfrutar de Lovecraft, hay que dejarse llevar por su prosa y abstraerse completamente en sus historias.
La Estrella Polar provoca en un hombre visiones cósmicas de una ciudad mítica de la que está seguro que es habitante.- Más allá del muro del sueño.
Un farero es reclamado una noche de luna llena por un misterioso barco, con el que viajará a países más allá de los sueños.- Arthur Jermyn.
Crawford Tillinghast le hace una demostración a su mejor amigo del funcionamiento de su invento, una máquina que permite ver todos los mundos y seres invisibles que nos rodean.- El templo.
Reanimator je zbirka sedam kratkih priča H.F.Lavkrafta, jednog od najpoznatijih i najpriznatijih pisaca tzv. kozmičkog horora i izvornog autora Ktulu mitova i Nekronomikona. Ova knjiga sadrži dve, po meni fenomenalne Lavkraftove priče ( Reanimator  i  Senka nad Insmutom ), tri krajnje prosečne ( Dagon ,  Alhemičar ,  Grob ), i najzad, dve koje mi se uopšte nisu dopale i koje lično svrstavam pri dnu Lavkraftovog opusa, iako sam svestan da se mnogi neće složiti ( Beli brod ,  Bezimeni grad ; ova p
Ova knjiga sadrži dve, po meni fenomenalne Lavkraftove priče (
Povrh toga, knjiga je jednostavno loša; prevod se kreće od nemaštovitog do krajnje očajnog, lektura je skoro pa nepostojeća, tekst ima više štamparskih grešaka od mog diplomskog rada (now that is an achievement on its own!), a kao so na ranu, papir je jedan od onih ružnih recikliranih koji se forsira poslednjih godina.
Očajan, očajan prevod ove legendarne priče (jedan od onih koji izgledaju kao da su sklepani dva dana pred istek roka za predaju), 30 leksičkih grešaka po strani u proseku, you get the picture.
Sve u svemu, solidna zbirka Lavkraftovih priča, nikako ne i najbolja koju sam video.
Ah but who could fail to love the indescribable horrors and gothic terrors of Lovecraft?
Lovecraft was many things, conservative, anti-modernist and fundamentally racist and those things are apparent in moments of his tales yet he is neither the first nor the last highly dislikable seeming person but a great writer.
All in all Lovecraft's tales of the Mad Arab and indescribable abominations of nature are a delight, utterly engaging and fascinating indeed for more than one reason, but as a writer of stories (and a mythos) in itself Lovecraft stands as a seminal and hugely influential figure and a great craftsman of the nightmarish and the phantasmagoric.
References to his work and the worlds he created are abound in both the literary and cinematic media.
Dagon and Other Macabre Tales is one of my favorite collections of his works.
While best known for his works of the macabre, Lovecraft was also a remarkable Sci-Fi writer.
Not that any of the horrific images he creates are ever truly expected of course.This is a great introduction to the works of H P Lovecraft, and even though you won't find classics such as The Call of Cthulhu, you will get an introduction to the mythos.
Another classic set of tales by Lovecraft - an absolute must-read for any fan of the macabre.
This volume contains some of my all-time favorite stories - lyrical and haunting: Herbert West - Reanimator, The Lurking Fear, The Hound.
Ah, this is a delicious read.
Mostly because my favorite stories are his very early "macabre" works and his later mythos works.
I find these beautiful, but not as compelling.That said, Mr. Lovecraft is a master - one of my favorite authors.
I highly recommend the first three volumes of Mr. Joshi's wonderfully-edited Arkham House classics.
5 αστέρια. όχι μόνο για την διαλογή των διηγημάτων, αλλά και για την επιμέλεια της έκδοσης. Εισαγωγή του ίδιου του Ντέρλεθ, και κλείσιμο με την ακαδημαϊκή (αν χρησιμοποιήσουμε ελαστικά τον όρο) προσέγγιση του Lovecraft της λογοτεχνίας τρόμου/φανταστικού. Στον πρώτο τόμο των απάντων υπάρχουν οι πιο γνωστοί τίτλοι και πιο χρήσιμοι, αν θέλεις να βυθιστείς στον φανταστικό κόσμο του Lovecraft, απ τη στιγμή που εκείνοι είναι που σε εισάγουν και "σου εξηγούν τα βασικά". Παρόλα αυτά, η έκδοση και η επιμέλεια δεν είναι ανάλογη όπως στον δεύτερο τόμο. Αξίζει να το έχει κάθε βιβλιοθήκη! Ειδικά αν είσαι ήδη "μυημένος"
A good collection of Lovecraft's tales. My only problem is that after reading a book of the cosmic horror author's work, I'm starting to see Koontz-like trends in some of his stories. Some of the stories are almost carbon-copies of each other. It's as if Lovecraft was constructing gospels, creating the alternative views of multiple authors.That being said, the man was a genius. You can't blame the pulp writers for recycling a few ideas.
Sin palabras...
The book cover has a very nice retro gothic fantasy art look to the book. I give this book 5 stars.
The first, TED Klein's extremely detailed essay delineating how gaga Lovecraft was for Lord Dunsany, serves as a good overview for the stories in the collection, not hiding the fact that most of them are a bit on the lesser side but at least trying to make a case for them as a stage in his writing evolution.
A lot of the early stuff is definitely in the tone of someone who gosh darn is the biggest Lord Dunsany fan ever which is good if you like that style but also makes it very clear that it's very hard to out-Dunsany Dunsany, with Lovecraft's stories often feeling like pale imitations of the mythical tone that came so easy to his idol.
I'd have liked to see these short stories turned into longer works that had a more developed stories (and characters), and were fully developed novels in their own right.The stories reminded me of the warning English teachers gave my class in school.
Well in some of these stories, it felt like Lovecraft ran out of steam, and ended up writing "Well we bricked up the holes, and went on with our lives, but some of us had nightmares.", and you have no idea how much that profoundly irritated me after a while.
I like the ending though it's a little hard to see why he thought this was such a threat to humanity.
Also the final lines of: "The window!
The window!" remind me of Monty Python.
And why Dagon?
It's like he just picked that water god at random, but this dude was in the Pacific whereas Dagon comes from the Middle-East.
Actually, I was disappointed to realize that this story, which appeared void of his usual racism, still had some in it.
Not only the selection of Dagon but also the 'primitive' etchings on the obelisk, a negative connotation that usually ties back to tribes.

Mi libro para leer en la semana de Halloween de este año. Lovecraft siempre cumple. Cada narración en primera persona lo pone a uno a pensar en qué se podría sentir experimentar las situaciones tan terribles de sus personajes y realmente termina helando al sangre muchas veces. La única desventaja es que hay que dosificar los cuentos de Lovecraft, cuando se leen varios muy seguido comienza a ser evidente la fórmula y se está más pendiente de la ficción que de los elementos psicológicos que afectan a quien lo lee.
This is a short horror story. I found this on Booktrack and listened to the audio. The image was more interesting than this one. I have heard about Lovecraft but hadn't read anything by him. I liked the style but was disappointed this ended too soon and abruptly. It build the anticipation for horror but didn't follow through for me.Audio Notes: I really liked the quality of the audio sounds in the background. It made for a good, quick listen.
This collection of stories was, to be honest, mostly terrifying. I have to admit to some difficulty staying interested in many of the more outlandish ones (involving other realms), as I'm more character oriented than anything else, but some of these are truly, truly terrifying. My favorite would have to be "From Beyond," but that doesn't mean I disliked ANY of them. That was just the one that kept me most rapt.
Mi primer libro de H. P Lovecraft, siguiendo el esquema del terror cósmico, es un libro de cuentos cortos bastante agradable, tiene algunas palabras difíciles, pero una narrativa que te invita a seguir más. Mi favorito fue la muralla entre los sueños y Dagon. Algo confuso por las palabras, recomendable leerlo sin prisa ni a punto de dormir.
Stories resemble dreams (or nightmares). You cannot distinguish from reality, even though you know they are not true.I highly suggest readers reading this book while listening to a Spotify playlist called 'Lovercraftian Atmos' (or some similar background music).
