https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/644475.The_Art_of_Selfishness
But unlike Rand’s book, The Art of Selfishness is a self-help book, not a work of philosophy.
In Nathaniel Branden’s terms, it means: “no pseudo-self-esteem.” As Seabury says about this principle: “To win, you must obey nature.
Some, while consistent with the two principles, derive more from Seabury’s clinical insight, as on page 103 where he counsels, “Make your thinking into experience.
Some more examples:On pages 138-9, Seabury discusses the use of sex manuals and the danger of employing them mechanically.
Seabury is often philosophically confused, speaking of "good" and "evil" selfishness, and "good" and "evil" unselfishness, without making totally clear the principles that differentiate them.
A collection of essays by a clinical psychologist in what was probably one of the earliest self-help books. What he calls "selfishness" is more like what we call "self-assertiveness" today, and the change in terms may have occurred because of the negative reactions he got to this book, especially from religious leaders. Much of the content is from interesting situations and changes reported by patients seen by Seabury and his colleagues.
And I quote, "The answer to the pressure of our days is one and simple: dare. Dare to live while life is passing. You'll never live otherwise. Set a limit on what you are willing to bear. Call this your adjustment marjin, your wall of personality. "They shall not pass" beyond that line beyond that line, no matter who or what they are. That's what I took away from this book. Excellent read!!
I have found my mood took a dip to the negative as a result of the focus on the dark side of lives.
I have been learning about self-love and have made solid progress in the subject both intellectually and on a practical level, and I perused this book at the recommendation of a book of the same subject and I went in with a lucid appreciation of the definition of the word “selfish” and its ready miscomprehension in common parlance.
Excellent book. A bit dated so some users may find that at times it's not politically correct in speaking to the genders. David Seabury gives you a new perspective on 'selfishness'. If you don't like the word 'selfishness', substitute with "self-regard" or "filling your own cup so whatever you do or give comes from the heart"
sometimes we must think of ourselves just to avoid our kindness been manipulated by others.This book give us the other side of the stories- different prespective..
Written years ago...but still relevant.
Written in 1937 with much wisdom....The Art of Selfishness is a practical guide to contentment.
Recommended by Ty Tang.
