https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65959.Across_Five_Aprils
Mind you, I also thought TV's The Waltons was the height of drama, so maybe my opinion is a bit skewed on the subject.Just the same, Across Five Aprils, the story of brothers torn apart by the America Civil War, did win the Newbery, so it must've been doing something right.
It's a large family with daughters embroiled in their own private war of romance and love held in check.I recall the ending feeling a bit slapped on for happiness sake and that a happy ending that made sense in the context of the story to that point would've felt more natural, if a happy ending must happen that is.
TERRIBLE BOOK. that is all I have to say. This is about the Civil War and how the main character Jethro is coming of age. This book was so boring that I do not have anything more to say. Do not read it. If you are interested in the Civil War, maybe you should consider it because it gives you a lot of historical background information. Otherwise, it is veyr hard to keep reading this book.
I wish I could find my copy of this.
I still have the edition I read in high school and I wanted to look up the copywrite date.
The edition I selected here -- obviously -- isn't the one I have but I doubt there's a picture of my edition's cover anywhere on-line, it's so old.
When I locate it, I'll come back and annotate the exact date.This is a classic tale about the Civil War and I've read it at least three times--maybe more.
The last time was with my daughters and I enjoyed it more than ever!
This is the only book I have read that captures the reality of the Civil War in a gripping, astounding story.
Across Five Aprils shows the truth: that there was much more to the American Civil War than just slavery.
From a historical, realistic viewpoint, this book was spot on and never had info dumps.
It flowed well and showed many events in a clear light.
The setting was also vivid.The characters were all very well done and memorable.
Each character added something to the story.
(view spoiler)[ I WILL NEVER BE OVER BILL, Y'ALL.
(hide spoiler)]I cannot serve this book justice by my review.
This book shows us in a moving and sympathetic way the effects of the American Civil War on a farming family in southern Illinois.
Across Five Aprils by Irene Hunt manages to turn the thrilling action and gruesome turmoil of war into threadbare monotony.
In the next chapter, a criminal's father rescues Jethro from an attacker on the roadside.
In the book, the topic of war, which is supposedly the main idea, is only mentioned briefly and vaguely.
Jenny appears repeatedly as a lovesick and educated girl, and Jethro as a farm boy who matures, but neither of these characters have a profound effect on the progress of the story.
All in all, Across Five Aprils is a tedious read due to its colorless storyline and characters.
i wish irene hunt's death could have been at least as agonizing as reading this.
How could she not love a book about growing up during the Civil War?
I decreed that we'd finish it as an audio book so I could explain its many virtues and strengths to her.
Turns out the book is unbelievably dull.
There's no scaffolding that helps explain the issues behind the civil war.
And by the end of the book it lapses into simply recounting the outcome of a series of Civil War battles that the main character reads about in newspapers.
Which, hey, is a lot like reading about them in history books.
My high school English teacher always said to give classic literature a good 50 pages before giving up, and I think/hope they will be hooked by then.
I've been to many Civil War battlefields and I've seen the movie Gettysburg several times (it's 4 hours long, so that is saying something!), so I am familiar with the names of many of the generals and battles in the book.
It covers the length of the war, so there are a lot of generals and battles to have to keep track of, which will probably bog down story for the kids I am reading it with.
A few months ago, I was reminiscing about the mandatory reading that was required in junior and high school and one of the few I remembered was this story.
I decided to read this since I realize you don't ever appreciate things when you're in high school.This book, to me is actually a 4.5 only because of the slow start until about chapter 4.
The poor grammar of Jethro and his family written can be hard to read at times also but you get used to it.
It painted a very real image of the times and how hard it was to even survive.
I hated this book so much! I was forced to read it in school and hated it. I never even had that much intrest in civil war stories anyway. So to say I hated this book was an understatement. I would only reccomend this to you if you are absolutely obsessed with the civil way, but if you aren't dont bother reading this long and exteremely boring book!
Too much exposition and description. The author uses her characters only as vehicles for dolling out historical information. So it all falls flat. Between the exposition, the unrealistic dialogue, a severe lack of subtlety, and the special coincidences, I became quickly disconnected from the story — rolled my eyes at several spots.
This is a written for children through the eyes of a 10 year old boy but the author has taken true stories passed down from her Grandfather who was a 9 year boy at the beginning of the Civil War. Then she did extensive research to fill in the holes.
It gave a good picture of the civil war from a Northern perspective.
She gave a good picture of the Generals of the Northern armies and how difficult it was for Lincoln to find one that would win the war and end it.
Since this book is about the Civil War from the perspective of a boy back home in Southern Illinois, all of the war action takes place out of the main narrative and is related by newspaper accounts and letters.
Even as a teacher I kept waiting for it to get better, and unfortunately, I reached the back cover before it did.I chose this book because I needed a historical fiction title to read with seventh graders, and the school had a classroom set available.
I'm afraid I didn't sell the genre with this book.
So far, boring. :/ It's a book I have to read for school about a nine-year-old boy durring the beginning of the Civil War. But then again, maybe I'm just baised against anything I am forced to read. xD
NEVER READ THIS BOOK!!!! I had to read it for school and it is like the worst book ever. It's all about the Civil war and blah blah blah. It's not even interesting and I didn't learn anything from it.
soooooooooooo B-O-R-I-N-G!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
“He talked to it gentle,” the story went, “like a woman talkin’ to a young ‘un.” He had even attended school the previous winter when work was slack, which was surely a fool thing to do unless one was interested in “breakin’ up school.” He had listened intently to what a young man three years his junior had to say; he had studied and done the tasks set for him by Shadrach Yale as if he were no older than Jethro.
“He’d put his hand in the fire fer you, Jeth,” she told him once, and Jethro believed her."b) Bill's thoughts on the war: pg.
I think this is one of the worst books I've read.
Not only was this book extremely boring, but it literally made me want to vomit every time I looked at the cover.
I know, I know, the book talks about loyalty to family and working hard and so on, but let's be honest.
Maybe others enjoy the excitement of war.
If I made a petition to stop reading Across Five Aprils, I think the ENTIRE school would sign it.
I'm not saying we should read books like the Hunger Games for school.
So far, the only school book I've liked is the Giver.
I never knew what it was about, where it took place, or the topic it discussed.
Once I got home and I was adding it to my Goodreads I realized that it took place in Southern Illinois, and I knew I had to read it.I currently live in Southern Illinois, and I love it.
Southern Illinois isn't the richest, nor the most educated, but it is full of great, strong people and this book illustrates that well.Overall a wonderful, engaging, yet simple read, marketed towards young adults, but worthwhile for anyone.
If you can get past the writing style, which is essentially redneck-toungue, you're going to be treated to a boring, predictable tale about some kid and his family while his brothers go off to kill each other in the civil war.I was made to read this book in the seventh grade, and I remember that we, my class I mean (all from South Carolina no less) had to go through a crash course in the redneck "language" that this book was written in.
It was painful to read.
Like reading Shakespeare in Klingon.
Check that, like reading Twilight in Klingon.
This book was about the Civil War, a much talked about subject(book and history wise) and it drove me crazy!!!! I can't stand to read about one more battle. The plot was boring and the characters mediocre and unintresting. This is one of the most boring books I have read. I wouldn't suggest this to anyone unless you are having trouble getting to sleep or if you actually like the Civil War which if you do I don't mean to offend.
I didnt much like the book, it was a very dry read. It was hard for me to really get into it when they were describe how he had to tend to the farm by himself; I would have liked more action and drama to occure. his mom having caffeen with draws waasnt enough for me to really care...
I did not enjoy it very much. I don't think I will be rereading this book again. The parts I liked the most were the parts with Shadrach and Jenny or Jenny and Jethro.
Tragic and beautiful, this book describes the deep family divisions which the Civil War caused. War may be captivating, but it is also hell.
I'm re-reading the novels I enjoyed as a child, and this is one of the best.
A great perspective on the Civil War, bringing up all the historical facts as well as emotional family issues surrounding the War. There is much to be enjoyed even if you are not a Civil War buff.
The family is close-knit and must deal with the effects of having two sons fighting on different sides.
The community is close and rallies together.
Unlike many novels, in this one people ponder issues of character and almost always end up calmly doing the right thing.
He finds himself in the middle of dangerous, even life threatening situations with some lowlife townspeople who persecute him & his family for having a son / brother considered a traitor for having joined the Confederates.I am so glad I read this book.
It does deal with some shady vile characters, and some heart wrenching situations in regard to the war, but does it in a tasteful, easy to read style and is a highly moral book with a realistic but satisfying conclusion.
Love this book! Wish I read it sooner...
This was a great story about the Civil War and would be especially good for fifth graders studying American history.
Young Jethro, the main character, studies them in the newspapers and the letters home from the soldiers in his family give us the rest of the information.
One thing I especially liked about this book is that it is really good about not condescending to a child's level.
My only issue with the ending is this: what became of Bill?All in all, this was a great book and was a wonderful distraction to listen to while packing, cleaning, and moving classrooms.
In order to finish the project on time, we had to listen to the audio book.
In conclusion, Across Five Aprils is a decent endeavor to make a book that will appeal to a younger age group, but totally flops because of the 100% lack of character development (and no, aging three years doesn't count).NOTE: I started the book, wasn't finishing in time, decided to listen to the audio book, fell asleep a few times, and re-read the book before finishing the project.
