https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368519.The_Memorial
This strikes me as one of the most underrated titles in Modernism. Despite the turn of many writers in the 1930s to more politically-engaged writing, this is a strong bookend to a period invested in the underlying structures of narrative and language. The impressions don't strike as profoundly as Woolf's (NB: she published the first edition), but the structure of the narration seems the result of a mind that plumbs nearly as deep. Additionally, its treatment of World War I demonstrates a maturity far ahead of the Isherwood of _The Berlin Stories_.
I love Isherwood novels, as a general rule, so my giving this one three stars probably means I just read it at the wrong moment.
Isherwood has long been one of my favorites, so when I was poking around in Books Inc., and saw they had his first novel on sale, I decided it was time to give it a go.
Sadly, I am so over-saturated with reading about the English of this period that even when the novel is fresh and different, I am too jaded to appreciate it.
Spoiler alert: I should at least be grateful for a novel from this period that shows us a gay character without having to kill him off.
Usually I know just how many stars to give, but I was between 4 and 5 for this one.
I take the reviewers' points, regarding the lack of plot and the overfill of characters, but what characters they were!
And it's really quite ahead of its time, so much so that I'd love to know how it was received in 1932.
It leaps back and forth in time and between viewpoints, but - and this is my point - commit and concentrate with this one, and you'll find it really worthwhile.
Isherwood's second novel, touted as the novel in which Isherwood becomes Isherwood, left me a little disappointed.
I read A Single Man ages ago, loved it for its prose, but this left little to be liked.
It's a character study with little to no real engaging plot.
The prose, however, was sparse and lacking in melody.
There were bits and pieces in which you can see (and hear) Isherwood for what he is known, but they occur in the first and fourth parts.
Good to read if you've read Isherwood before, but not a good place to start if you haven't.Good, but still missing something.
E, sensivelmente a meio do livro, a escrita torna-se extraordinária, no capítulo dedicado a Eric, então ainda um jovem adolescente, com um fascínio pela família da sua tia e primos, os Scrivens, tão diferentes da sua mãe e da Mansão onde vivem com o avô, o fidalgo.
The Memorial is Christopher Isherwood's second novel and though it comes highly recommended with wonderful blurbs and recommendations from scholars, it is not one of the author's finest works.
One problem for me is that the book really does not have a plot, for which it is recognized and for which it is acclaimed as a series of highly developed character studies.
Unfortunately, I could not develop much connection with any of the characters.
The biggest disappointment is that the book does not contain that wonderful fluid and elegant prose that Isherwood is capable of producing.
It took me until pretty much the last page in order to get all the interchangeable characters straight in my head as well as to understand what the hell was supposed to be going on. This was obviously written before Isherwood was a.) fully open to himself as a homosexual and b.) before he ruled. If you're just starting with Isherwood, don't start with this one (psst start with Berlin Stories!) and then only read this one if you've read everything else and are as much of an Isherwood geek as I am. Otherwise, avoid it.
The main sources of jealousy come from Edward Blake, best friends from cold, cruel English boarding school with Richard Vernon, Mary Scriven's brother, and Eric Vernon, Richard's son with his milquetoast wife, Lily.
Both of them are social outcasts--Edward for being gay and a little bit too mean as a young man, and Eric for being just too awkward-- and both of them fall in love a little bit with the Scrivens.
I worship Isherwood and Berlin Stories is perhaps my favorite novel ever. Even so, I gave up on this after the first hundred exceedingly dull pages.
By novel’s end this man, Edward Blake, is living in pre-Nazi Berlin with a young man named Franz—perhaps heralding Isherwood’s courage to write more about gay life in his The Berlin Stories, which are to follow in 1934.Isherwood, who later works in Hollywood as a screenwriter, writes here as if he is unreeling a film, endeavoring to tell his narrative without the aid of authorial explanation.
This novel may not be among Isherwood’s most noted, primarily because of its experimental nature, but it is still a solid, well-written book.
Isherwood's character portraits in The Memorial were wonderful, as usual, but I thought he took on too many characters, and the narration was a bit hard to follow. The suicide scene early in the novel was intense and memorable. At first I found Eric to be the most interesting character, but by the end it was definitely Edward.
Noticeably one of Isherwood's first works.
It felt like he spent a long time just writing character sketches without a clear idea of what said characters would do, then realized he had enough material for a novel and tried to paste it all together.
It just never feels like Isherwood knew what he wanted to do with this book.Also: Arbitrarily nonchronological.
Sections go from 1928 to 1920 to 1925 to 1929.
No reason for the first section to be out of sequence and only muddles the reading.
Book.
In some ways this is an odd little book, but it's compelling and you can see hints of the future of Isherwood's writing. You're left rather frustratingly wanting to know more about the motivations and backgrounds of most of the characters, Edward and Eric in particular. In some ways Eric is the most obscure character of all, and you feel that Edward wants a novel of his own. The jumps in time are occasionally hard to follow. But I'm glad to have read this book.
Kind of boring? I found the plot & characters unengaging, but other aspects of the writing were good so I'll probably read one of his other books eventually.
I remember being emotionally invested in Isherwood’s heroes and heroines.
Published in 1932, The Memorial is, as far as I can tell, Isherwood’s second novel, and is the least lurid I know of.
Once the introductions are made, Isherwood’s technically sparse and emotionally rich voice slides in to uncloak a polite, pervasive decadence creeping about under that sure and careful narration as two generations of fancy Brits take a knee between world wars, no more aware than the man who created them of what’s about to hit them next.
There were moments where I felt lost, and as a lot of people pointed out, the novel didn't really have much of a point.
I enjoyed the character of Edward, but other then a brief section of European travels, the book just ended without so much as a conclusion.
Again, I know Isherwood is a fantastic writer and that there is a warning out not to read this book, and I will say this book is not a good start.
I'm hoping to read his other books still, because so many people say his novels are genius, so I think this might have just been an unlucky pick.
It's so easy to read Isherwood, because his writing is so effortless; so clear; so witty.
Having completed this one, I think I can now describe him as one of my favourite authors.I picked this novel up in Foyles on a staff recommendations display - having loved the Berlin novels and A Single Man, and rather enjoyed Christopher and His Kind too, I figured I couldn't go wrong with this.Pointless to talk about plot, because that would miss the point somewhat.
You've done me a massive favour and I can't wait to read even more Isherwood.

This book has basically no relation to the blurb on this edition but it was enjoyable anyway.
I feel like it took me until around quarter of the way through to get the hang of who everyone was and how they were related to each other and how the timeline worked.
It works at this length but I would still like to know more about what happened to the characters.
So much of it's in the subtext as well so it would be good to have an adaptation which filled in the blanks, although sometimes that spoils some of the fun of working out what's actually going on.
I thought this book has a really lovely story, however, I would caution any possible readers that at times the book can be very confusing. The book is often confusing because of the many characters and the switching points of view. The real heart of the story is in parts 3 and 4 of The Memorial. I encourage readers to power through the parts of the story that are less interesting to get to the wonderful story.
An old-fashioned German gentleman who speaks, quite eloquently I'd like to add, about literally, the portrait of a family, how that structure is prolonged and idealized by society, and makes several points that created new ways for my own personal thinking.Darcee KrausMckinleyville, CAhttp://www.etsy.com/shop/BlassGlass
Wanted to like this one but never really got into it the way I have with his other books. Contained the line 'Other people were brilliant and erratic. He just slogged on.' which I quite liked and wrote on the back of an U-Bahn ticket because my phone had died. Other than that, it sort of felt like some other person trying to write and Isherwood style story but leaving out all the good bits.
I knew when I began this book that it was primarily a character study and the plot was almost secondary. I found the plot to be minimal, and while the chartcters were well written I couldn't always tell who was who. The last few pages might have been the best in the book, but even then there was little if any resolution. I'm glad I didn't buy this book.
The story of a family after WWI and its impact on each of them. Great attention to each character's perceptions. The story unravels out of chronological order which makes for a much more interesting read.
That was really disgraceful, because, in fifty years' time, nobody would know who anybody was. (This novel must have been mined by the creators/writers of Downton Abbey.)
I love Isherwood but I found it so hard to get into this book.
I won this on Goodreads First Reads giveaway, and really liked it. Not much of a plot, but very much a story about the 20's written in the 30's...so very authentic. A keeper.
"You know," said Franz, very serious and evidently repeating something he had heard said by his elders: "that War . . . it ought never to have happened."
