https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67948.The_Armageddon_Rag
Drawing from his own personal experiences of the Summer of Love-era, this supernatural horror/thriller tells the tale of Sandy, a rock journalist in the early 80s who's investigating the mysterious, gruesome murder of a promoter who managed several big-name bands throughout the 60s and 70s, including hard-rockers The Nazgûl, one of the most famous of the era.
But if you're really interested in reading some of Martin's early horror work, start with his excellent collections like Sandkings or Nightflyers first*.3.0 Stars*The title stories of each collection are two of the most chilling sf/horror hybrids I've read.
This is very important book for my relationship with mr.
:-))When "Song of Ice and Fire" started to get published in my country (Croatia) I was in a phase when I wanted to boycott all US products, because of US attack on whatever country US was attacking at that time.At that point, major question for me was: shall I buy this "Game of Thrones" book by this US writer, or shall I boycott it as any other US product?
Fortunately, I have previously read "Armageddon Rag" and I've decided that the man who wrote this book couldn't be blamed for US politics.And this is how my boycott failed.
It’s not until the second half of the book, as Sandy’s sanity, steeped in the atmosphere of the renewed Nazgûl, begins to unravel.So for the majority of the book, this is a music murder mystery.
So it’s a testament to GRRM’s skill that I still understood and sympathized with this journey of rediscovery, which ultimately culminates in Sandy abandoning his journalistic endeavour to do public relations for the Nazgûl.The tone of the book begins to shift, with supernatural elements coming to the fore.
Sandy begins to realize that the reunion of the Nazgûl, the “resurrection” of Patrick Hobson, their new concert at West Mesa, are all part of a larger plan.
George R.R Martin knows how to write songs.
If you read the ASOIAF novels, you'll know some memorable songs like the ominous 'The Rains of Castamere', the tragic 'The Last of the Giants', or the bawdy 'The Bear and the Maiden Fair'.
In The Armageddon Rag, where the story revolves around this Led Zeppelin-like band, you'll find many songs too.
The way George writes about the performance of each song will make you feel you're seeing them live.
It shows how good and immersive George's writing is.The real rating is 4.5 stars.
I read this book at the urging of a number of people, since I write a lot of music-infused SFF and this was a rock n roll fantasy novel. It gets a solid three stars. Very readable, cinematic even. Martin does write music well, and this hits some fine creepy notes. It's an interesting look at the 60s and 70s from the not very far out early 80s. That said, I found the portrayals of women frustrating.
In this combination murder mystery and road trip novel, Martin evokes that vividly, and then ponders where it all went.The opening swiftly sets the scene: as the hippie generation swelled into student protest in the late sixties, the rock band called Nazgûl became the voice of a generation.
My son is the drummer in a rock band; as a boy, he sat beside me each December when the latest Tolkien Ring film came out; and while I don’t know if he’s watching the Game of Thrones fantasy series on TV, he certainly recognized Martin’s name.
politically, a real "man the barricades" kind of guy, vague feelings of guilt over how I, and my generation, seem to have lost the ideals that seemed so important back then have been circulating for years.
As a musician, also, I've found myself ascribing earth-changing power to the songs I grew up with, just as Sandy does.The release date for this book, in 1982, was also important for me in understanding the character's anger and confusion as well as cultural perspectives that only age can understand.
Don’t get me wrong, I do not have the most extensive Martin collection, but I have read a decent number.
R. Martin book.
Such a thing really disappoints me as I’d been sure that it would win me over in the end.Alas, this book was made up of moments where I was really enjoying it and moments where I just wanted the whole thing to be over.
Such a thing makes it hard for me to gauge just how much I enjoyed this read.
he writes some very one dimensional characters!The story is a gigantic leap from the song of ice and fire world and isn't as cleverly crafted as the fevre dream world.
I was debating whether I should quit the book about 100 pages in, but I stuck it out because I really wanted to see if he would write a happy or a sad ending, to give me an idea of what's to come in ASOIAF.
It had some interesting ideas and cool parts, but overall, it was a gigantic letdown that I wouldn't recommend to even some of the most hardcore Martin fans.3/10
R. Martin wussed out.And actually, this is beginning to worry me, because I'm afraid that perhaps Martin is not particularly good with climaxes or ending stories properly.
Maybe he's not pumping those books out so quickly these days because he doesn't know how to end them.
(And so help me, if the battle between the dragons and the Others comes down to a big non-battle like this did, I'm going to be pointing to this review and saying, "I told you so!")Anyway, lack of a good climax or not, I enjoyed this book, and I'd say it's worth a look.
The best lack all conviction, whilst the worst are full of passionate intensity.  How to summarise our world in one sentence. This book was deep, and I mean seriously deep. It was a long and meandering journey, often purely miserable, yet it hauled me through to the finale on the edge of my seat. The characters and story felt so real by the end, that I was genuinely anxious for the conclusion. The musical references throughout set the scene and drew me into nostalgia for a decade I didn't live

On one level, it seems like Martin is critiquing this 60s-Golden-Age type, but on another level I think we're supposed to buy into his impotent angst and perhaps nod along in approval to his stale witticisms and toothless comebacks.His friends are scarcely better: we have the ex-radical hippie professor who tries to get into his students' pants, the free-love hippie mama getting in touch with motherhood and mother earth on a dippy commune, the drug-blasted hippie wastoid, and a flabby reunited hippie band it is impossible to care about.
Because he's from the 60s, man.Another thing we could do without: Martin buts variations of the phrase "Yessa Massa" into way too many scenes.
...The Armageddon Rag is probably the most unusual novel Martin has written.
If you look at his development as a writer up to the 1980s one can only wonder what might have happened if he had continued to write novels.
The fragment of Black and White and Red All Over that Martin published as part of the collection Quartet: Four Tales from the Crossroads (2001), shows that he was well on his way to delivering another very good and very different novel.
Each of these novels is well worth the read but personally I consider The Armageddon Rag the strongest of the four.
You'd think that mixing GRR Martin and detective novels, which are one of my favorite genres, would be a good thing.
"The best novel concerning the American pop music culture of the sixties I’ve ever read." -- and my knowledge and appreciation of pop culture -- any aspect of it, is practically nil.
It's wildly different from the other fantasy stories that Martin wrote, with parts of it feeling weirdly biographical.
Mostly though, I got bored reading the lovesong to rock n' roll classics while waiting for the mystery / detective bit to kick in so yeah, not my thing.
This is very important book for my relationship with mr.
:-))When "Song of Ice and Fire" started to get published in my country (Croatia) I was in a phase when I wanted to boycott all US products, because of US attack on whatever country US was attacking at that time.At that point, major question for me was: shall I buy this "Game of Thrones" book by this US writer, or shall I boycott it as any other US product?Fortunately, I have previously read "Armageddon Rag" and I've decided that the man who wrote this book couldn't be blamed for US politics.And this is how my boycott failed.I'm a bit more selective now :-))
Kudos to A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE,but this masterpiece is George R.R. Martin's best novel. It was a severe comercial failure when it was published ,(though reviews were estatic),and pushed Martin towards Hollywood.After phenomenal and more than justifed sucsess of his fantasy series,THE ARMAGEDON RAG is finaly getting attention it deserves.
The three surviving Nazgul have long since sunk into their separate obscurities.Sandy Blair, aging ex-rebel and sometime reporter for the aging ex-rebel magazine Hedgehog, is asked to write an article for "da hog" on the bizarre sacrificial murder of Jamie Lynch, the man who had all those years ago served as the Nazgul's manager.
His descriptions of the Nazgul's performances and his original lyrics for such Nazgul albums as Hot Wind Out Of Mordor and Music To Wake The Dead are tremendously vivid and realistic.Martin's attention to detail, down to descriptions of the T-shirts sold at Nazgul concerts, adds an illusion of reality which becomes intensely surreal in the light of the magical events taking place.
Martin refers to The Armageddon Rag as the book that almost ended his career, and after reading it, I can sort of see why.
Also, if you are a Baby Boomer, this book will probably make you mad (Martin isn't gentle about what he sees as the failings of the generation), and if you're not, you'll probably just be confused by the references and the nostalgia.
Even his main character was flat and generally uninteresting.
Ananda represents another of those problems; she is lusty, ruthless, and manipulative--and the only person of color I noticed in the book.
60's rock might not exactly be my cup of tea, for the most part, but I wished for a soundtrack of it to go with this.I started this book when heading for Belgium, and it was a perfect traveling read.
I managed to read about 2/3 of the book before I had actually reached my destination.
For some reason I'm still more interested in the non-GoT stuff, but I guess I'll get around to reading those too, at some point later.
I loved every single description of Nazgul on the stage, of concerts and songs - it was so real that I felt like I was right there, singing with the crowd.
By the end it got too obvious about the identity of the murderer (well at least to me because I figured it out waaay before Sandy), but then again, it wasn't even important who killed that guy anymore.
Usually I like supernatural, but I was uncomfortable with it in this book.
I didn't like some parts, but it was worth reading because of the music.
Novela que va de más a menos, con buenas ideas que se vienen abajo con un final lejos de las expectativas creadas.
Lo mejor viene por la reconstrucción con un toque sobrenatural de la vida de una macro banda reunida tras una década de separación, y cómo Martin indaga en qué pasó con el espíritu contracultural de los 60.
Sin llegar a integrar del todo ambos aspectos pero siendo efectivo.
Sin embargo la novela encalla en su último tercio cuando llega el momento de construir su clímax; Martin no sabe muy bien qué hacer, se esconde en sueños y visiones un tanto estúpidos y conduce todo a un desenlace poco imaginativo.
GRRM has a real nice style. It isn't frilly or anything but it's engaging and homeboy strings together the occasional poetic sentiment/line. It deals real honestly with the sense of detachment that so many flower children/Boomers felt in the early 80s. The book sometimes shows its age (it came out in '83) but we all have cracks.
Amazing! Scrisa pentru iubitorii de rock, m-a uns pe suflet. nu stiam de ea, a fost cea mai frumoasa surpriza a anului.
Like a lot of folks, I wasn't quite sure what I was reading when I started Armageddon Rag. I had just finished Fevre Dream by Martin, and the quicker pace of Fevre Dream through me off a bit to start since I started reading Armageddon Rag the same day that I finished Fevre Dream.
But Martin got me interested enough in Sandy to want to keep going.
Sandy's weird visions of the past were a bit too long and scattered for me (maybe I am just impatient), but they were a great tool to give insight into Sandy.
This is the first time I've read this book since it was released in paperback, the first time.
I think my favourite thing about this book is the descriptive language.
I liked the book a lot.
I had not experienced life enough to see the dreams and hopes of a generation vanish, to see change actuallly happen as I watched, to see corruption grow and spread.
I think every generation if not every individual has this moment.
The moment you think how did we come to this, how did we let this happen?
This hardback re-issue of George R.R. Martin's 1983 novel 'The Armageddon Rag' is strikingly eye-catching.
Instead, this book examines the power of rock music in our culture.
Unlike in 'ASOIAF', where Martin has perfected the craft of prophesisng events so that even I enjoy reading those dream-sequences, here they felt forced and distracting.
The characters are vivid and multi-layered, the writing is loud and angry without losing any subtlety, and Martin constantly got me contemplating on the power of rock music.
To end this review on a cliche: 'The Armageddon Rag' will rock your world!
I was born decades after the setting of the novel, and my own personal enjoyment of the sorts of bands described in the text comes devoid of the cultural context they earned their popularity in, but the earnest humanism of the protagonist, so often an avatar for Martin, is far more compelling than any “mid-life crisis” style narrative, like the novel is on a superficial level, has any right to be, but Martin’s earnestness and skill in characterisation sees that the novel transcends its premise.It’s a delightfully unusual novel, bursting with heart, and displaying the skills in characterisation and deft handling of multiple genres that would eventually catapult Martin to legitimate celebrity.
Setting aside his stalled novel, Sandy sets out on the trail of a story that links the present murder to events that happened 10 years earlier, and to a band that was at the forefront of the 60s music and social revolution - the Nazgul.In tracking down surviving members of the Nazgul and those associated with them, Sandy is forced to revisit his own past.
Then the past begins to haunt his present in the form of grotesque dreams and hallucinations.The only way to solve the recent murder, and the 10-years old mystery is to resurrect the Nazgul – and that could mean literally raising the dead.
Novels like this are few and far between, and I was addicted to the sound of the characters and their lives, and their voices, throughout.
what if?You can tell that Martin had spent a lot of time with 60's music, or on tours with some kind of rock band, or SOME kind of background such as this.
There is far too much he could not possibly know, not even with research, about these times.And I found the entire novel very enjoyable.
Pe la jumătatea cărții am oprit muzica.
Din carte bubuiau tobe, scheunau chitare, pufneau cutremure, porneau avalanșe, mi se răscoleau paginile între degete, Pat Hobbins, albinosul rockstar, îmi cresta împrejurul cu vocea lui din altă lume de-mi sîngerau urechile.
Chiar am ascultat muzică dintr-o carte pînă mi s-au umezit urechile de plăcere?
Da. Și ochii?
Spre final am încetinit ritmul cititului, am început să fac opturi și să închid ochii, să-mi înfig unghiile în pieptul cărții, musculos și păros, exact cum îmi place.
Pînă nu mai pot.The-Armageddon-RagArmageddon Rag aproape i-a distrus lui George R.R. Martin cariera de romancier.
