https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/576021.Notes_to_Myself
Hugh Prather is a huge inspiration and motivation in my life.
I have read this book more than 7 times from cover to cover, and I still go back to it everytime i feel a need for the comfort of his words.This book has a particular significance for me.
My father passed it to me.
And his love for this slim book of wisdom finally caught on me when i read it after ending my first relationship.
Indeed, 'on becoming a person' the book which inspired Prather initially, has worked its miracle in my life!A please-you-have-to-read-it book.
One man's struggle to look into moral obligations, societal dilemmas, temptations and fears all of us face and how to overcome all these are presented in the form of axioms by the man himself - Hugh Prather. Though I am not much of a fan of Self-Help books, this one got me glued and I read it for days in bits and pieces. The subtle presentation with great nicety of this man's inquiry into his doings, thoughts and feelings are not just about himself but about all of us, the whole human race. #MUST-READ
An old friend let me borrow this book before.
I've only read it once, never read it since, but have still kept what i've learned from this book close to my heart.
It's a collection of little sayings, ideas, or "notes" if you would, from the author.
It's his notes to himself basically.
I wrote down a bunch of my favorite notes and refer to them from time to time for consolation.
Some favorites include, "My trouble is I analyze life instead of live it.", "When I get to where I can enjoy just lying on the rug picking up lint balls, I will no longer be too ambitious.", and "Don't strive for love, be it." to name a few.
Yet more evidence that, yes, it's all in the presentation.Notes to Myself is a collection of observations and thoughts from Prather's journals.
No thought at all went into the line breaks, the word choice, the image (what very little here is presented as image in the first place!), the diction, anything.
It's obvious thought and reflection went into the material, but one of the main differences between poetry and prose is that the presentation of the material is far more important in poetry than it is in prose.

the best the best the best. Read it. Keep it on your desk, by your bed, on your coffee table, in your bag. So much wisdom and inspiration in this book. I am so glad I found it
When I picked up this book, I was expecting revelations that would make me think, challenge my preconceived notions about life, and become one of my favorites.
The book has no page numbers, so I don't know exactly where I stopped reading, but I'm about halfway through.
I can't read any more of this drivel.
This is an example of the trite drivel contained in this book.
It's like the author just jotted down every single lame thought and emotion that entered his head throughout the day and made them into a book.
I know that I'll always keep coming back to it for Hugh Prather's words are like a source of inspiration and comfort to me.This book although is a collection of notes that the author wrote to himself to sort through his personal struggles but you nevertheless find them reflecting some part of your own life and wonder why you didn't/don't write such notes to yourself.
This is the kind of book you don't hope to finish in one go but read in bits and pieces letting the words slowly sink their meaning in and consequently learning how a simple act of writing small notes to oneself can be so freeing and healing.
Every so often, I manage to pick up a particular book at a time in my life right when I need to read it; Notes to Myself is one of those books. I am sure I will be reading this over and over and over again at different stages of my life, but it was absolutely a perfect read for what I needed right now.
A lovely read for food for thought. Nothing to take at face value alone, but very nice for new perspective and self awareness on things I would like to work on about myself. Will pick up again when I need a reality check, and to see if the things I have underlined have changed from idea to reality.
This wasn't nearly as hippie dippy as I had expected. Though it is definitely self-help, I wasn't put off by it the way I am by a lot of pop psychobabble. Prather offers plenty of good food for thought and some surprising insights. I'm certain I'll pick this one up again.
A collection of one man's thoughts through life. Some of it is really insightful, others are mediocre. The nice part is there are no page numbers and no chapters; so it is easy to pick up and put down.
I want to quickly get close to the people I meet because my experience has shown we won’t be together long.Read this book on the advice of John Kaag.
An OK experience, and glad Prather examined his life, but not so hot in the time I find myself currently existing in.
I prefer to be shown something through words and made to feel them to the extreme.
Yesterday I discovered a new book by Deborah Levy titled The Cost of Living and I am already very emotionally involved.
Expect to learn more from Levy's trials than Prather's advice.
"Dislike is a function of need.
I want something from you that you do not provide and so I dislike that condition and call you bad.
The squirrel who lives behind my cabin becomes furious whenever I empty the garbage.
I do not need his approval and his anger amuses me.
But if he were my pet and I needed his cooperation then this same anger would irritate me.
I do not like dislike a stone unless it is in my path, or a cloud unless it rains on me.
This guy reminds me of someone you meet at a cocktail party who likes to listen to himself talk. And if you let him talk about himself long enough, he will talk himself in circles and contradict everything. A lot of little one-liner axioms, mostly about flower-power and love (hey, it was 1970!). I thought this would be a coming of age book for a 32 y/o, but there is no catharsis, the search doesn't end here. I'd like to read more from him, but this one wasn't for me.
http://www.anureviews.com/notes-to-my...
This is a total and complete comfort book to me--I read it when I'm down and in need of soothing as well as when I'm happy and want to reinforce how lucky I am.
This book changed my way of thinking and made me passionate about writing and exploring my inner person.
When I come in repeated contact with this daily facade of normality I begin to assume that I too deserve such a life, and I get annoyed with the present and look upon my difficulties as unjust.
I want to live from the inside out, not from the outside in.The heart loves, but moods have no loyalty.
As an act of faith, as a response to something that feels very deep in me, I believe this about other human beings: regardless of their present mood (which I wish to respect) they want to be my friend.
Deep within them they want to be close to me and to all living things.
The first time I read it during a difficult and emotional period in my life, around 2005.
Giving my personal troubles at the time, I bought it, and read the slim volume over the course of the next few nights.
Fast-forward 11 years, now living in Boston, I was again going through a crossroads period of my life, changing careers with no safety net.
Taken in one large binge, the book's simple style can read like self-help pablum at its worst.
You don't need to be going through difficult periods when reading this; you just need to want to change or question yourself.
Organization is chaotic at times but overall it has some theme coherence.In relation to self, he writes about his views of his future, the unfolding of life, dealing with being in your head (anxiety, emotions, etc), and a lot of other interesting topics.
In relation to others, he reflects on seeing people in a good light, dealing with your emotions towards others, and loving all among many other themes.This book is so personal that I felt disconnected from it at times, muttered "bullshit" once in a while, and maybe felt a little angry.
I appreciate his thoughts on self-reflection and getting in touch with natural, negative feelings in order to break through to the positive always lying just beneath.
Maybe that was the point: random musings of a human mind to which we can all relate, or not...
I wanted to be able to see my life in his words, you know - connect to the writer.
But when he started naming random people in unexpected passages the connection was lost.
You may react negatively, you may relate but either way - you will emote and you should finally allow yourself to sit with that and feel it.
This book definitely had some good points, but others were hard to understand and relate to.The first portion of the book didn't grip me and it took me a while to get through the rest of the book, but once I was able to continue and actually focus and interpret what he was saying it made more sense.
I found some portions of his book that definitely related to some struggles I had and I think that for him as a man to go through something and be able to write about it was an enjoyable read.
What is it about: A non-fiction, self-help book that doesn't comes with the common do's and don't seen in the self-help books.
It is a collection of excerpts taken from the journal of the author and represents his thoughts, values that also provides an insight to our thoughts.How was it: It blew away my mind.
Something I seek for, an insight into the inner self.
A quest to understand yourself and the people around.
It was difficult to understand or you can say internalise the ideas he wants to convey.
so, I have to read it once again.
Who should read: Someone who loves exploring thoughts.
A self-help adorer and self-explorer.
<'If I truly accept my behaviour, I no longer see it as a fault'>It seems to happen that HP put my daily struggles on his notes.
While reading this book, It took me sometime to flash memories back, things I did wrong to people, or might an actions were people not expected from me.
This book is the core of daily routines that probably ones had experienced or might ones ignored unconsciously.
Reading this book is a self-reminder, and showing me more what the self-acceptance really is.
This book helps me to see and think more deeply and give some insight in life.
No Index, No Chapters, No Beginning and No End - That's the beauty of this book. It's a companion book you can keep forever. A compilation of great insights into the struggle, confusion and chaos of an individual enroute growth and maturity. It provides ample of "food for thought" for self-reflection. Open the book anywhere and there lies gems of wisdom and knowledge.Even after many re-reads, the book throws new surprises!Click here for Full Review of the book on my blog
About you, me and othersShowed me that not everyone is the same and nor any different. I guess you'll find something in it from your heart and mind and some that you think you knew but couldn't name it and he puts it the way it is. This is a book that have lots of thoughts and experiences in it. All about life and mostly about you and the people (though sometimes you don't want to be with but can't do without). A book that you may think of getting back to from time to time.
It felt auspicious when Notes to Myself was recommended to me by someone I recently met. Hugh Prather walks us through a meditation of thought and judgement as he moves about the world as an individual. This is not an academic book, and he doesn’t linger on each thought long. I don’t agree with everything that is said, but I did find Prather’s thought process to be insightful and helpful. I find myself wanting to share this book and am curious about his other publications.
Simple notes to one’s self. Author inquiries into his thoughts, feelings and doings. Few pages into the book and you realise all these thoughts have crossed your mind at some point in time and he has given words to all of them. There are no page numbers or chapters in this book, so pick and read from anywhere, and you will find reflections of your own thoughts.
Notes to Myself, is to me, a watered down version of Meditations by Marcus Aurelius.It should be taken as the notes written by a person on the path to self-discovery. And the success of this book and usefulness of reading it, comes when you can relate to it in your own terms. When you can draw parallels to the thoughts in this or remotely associate your emotions to what is written here.
