https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117170.Richard_Scarry_s_Best_Storybook_Ever_
Legomeister spent hours pouring over all the vehicle pictures, and we loved to read the nursery rhymes and stories.Little Miss really liked "I am a Bunny" by Ole Risom.
In fact, this one was replaced in the later versions.I also love "Polite Elephant," who "knows the right things to say and do." And the counting story, "Whisper in My Ear." They have to whisper so they won't wake the baby mice; but the baby mice are jumping on the bed.
And "Is this the House of Mistress Mouse?" I could go on and on, there are so many fun and unusual stories and interesting pages.We really love this book!
This book has so much sentimental value to me as it was one of the staples of my daughter's reading diet for years. We really loved Lowly Worm. I adored how the stories were morally engaging without being didactic or pendantic or boring. I think I even may have kept it, although it was rather falling apart. Oh the memories!
Best. Storybook. Ever.Well, maybe not quite. But it's pretty great and all of the art was extremely nostalgic for me. Hadn't seen this thing since I was about six years old. I used some of my 34th birthday money to buy it today and flipped through it at the coffee shop, recognizing all of the pictures and smiling at all of the smoking (including on the cover).
My son got this book for Christmas and we love it, I love how it has daddys cooking and cleaning and moms doing yard work. Well drawn and so much snarky Britt lit.
My Mom used to read this to me every night.
I loved this as a child and my 15 month old daughter also delights when "dada" reads from this book during her goodnight routine.
One of my very favorite books! Where would I be without it?
One of my absolute favourites as a child, so full of images and stories and adventures, I could spend hours absorbed in this book.
Best book ever for my childhood. So many great stories and the illustrations are my favorite. I can't put my finger on why I like this so much. I remember as a kid, always looking at the pictures and trying to replicate the drawings on my own. The drawings of London also helped with my sense of adventure. There are a lot of great stories as well that cover everything from counting, the alphabet, to fruits and flowers. This book has seen better days, but it will remain on the shelf for others to read.
Adalyn (2) pours over this book in the car. It’s not my favorite because it’s not in the style of his other “Busy town” books. But for a child who doesn’t sit still well, she’ll read this in the car for 20 minutes at a time. Some of the “stories” are weird so I try to skip those. Some of them are just pictures with word labels.
Two of my favorite stories in this collection were written by Patricia Scarry. I found a copy of this book at a thrift store that matches exactly the book i owned as a kid. Why did my mom toss or give away all my books from my childhood? Having fun recalling and searching for copies of all my childhood favorites.
Wow! The cover used to be yellow! This find in my parents' attic now lives next to my preschooler's bed by her choice. The bits and pieces from other Scarry stories are great to grab attention and refocus energy without needing to sit down to a long book.
My 3.5 year old girls love Richard Scarry. We started this one, read it every night, and when we finished it, started again at the beginning. After reading it back to back 3 times, I'm ready to put it away and read something else for a while.
Still makes me happy, nearly 50 years on.
We enjoyed reading this so much!
Always fun.
I finished reading my twenty fifth and sixth books in English for this year without using a dictionary.
Plus, it's not difficult for me to keep reading a short story in English every single day.
I know that it's very hard for me to read 50 pages of a book in English every day, but I can read a three-page-short story a day every single day.
I hope I can achieve my goal that I can finish reading forty eights books in English without using a dictionary this year!
I love ALL the stories in the book.
I would turn on my tummy and slowly turn each page.
It gave me great comfort to have a book I love with me when I felt yucky.
Sometimes I sneak the book into my bed and Mama can hear that I am still up well past my bedtime.
She will come in and catch me flipping through the pages in the dim light of my room.
I LOVE this book.
I think that Mamas should not judge what books their children might or might not read.
My Mama was very wrong about this one!!
This was a family favorite when we were kids.
I just bought it for my family and oh man...memories!!!
It is just as fabulous as I remembered.
It has great illustrations to spark a child's imagination.
Of course, the nostalgia is a big plus for me, but I hope Ari and Mirabel will curl up on the couch or lay on their tummies, feet kicking, reading this book and imagining a life lived in a hollowed out tree or a castle in Denmark or being a hedgehog in Dickens' London or being an Algerian detective...just like my brothers and I did.
This book has been the nighttime routine for my two-year old and I for the past few months.
It's an edited collection of stories, poems, etc.
from other Richard Scarry books - 288 pages of illustrated magnificence.
The writing is nothing to get too excited about.
It's fine writing, but there is nothing truly memorable about it.
The illustrations, however, are genius.
Father bears in smoking jackets, double-decker buses heavy-laden with adventuring young animals, cats in fezzes, owls in lettermans' sweaters, bunk beds, half-doors, vacationers in woodies, television antennas...should I continue?
Any child is the better for having been introduced to Scarry's truly inspired illustrations.
2008 - A collection of previously published stories and poems by Richard Scarry. Topics include words, colours, alphabet, numbers, fables, mother goose, cars, planes, manners, animals and much more.This is a fun book for young children. The topics are most suitable to very young children but those a bit older will be able to read most of the text. We used this book with our curriculum this year, reading a few stories spread out over the whole year. He was always happy when it time to read the stories and he's enjoyed reading some of it on his own. Recommended.
Featuring 82 short stories and poems, this book also features some of the most beautiful imagery i've seen before. "Words To Learn", for instance, teaches children about the names and locations of body parts, the months of the year, the names of designated names of family members, and the days of the week and are accompanied by drawings. There are also stories that deal with the seasons, colors, and how to be nice one another.
This was my favorite book when I was younger I read it so many times.Great kids book. Funny. This book would be best for ages 4 and up. Maybe a little younger. This book is funny. I remember everything that happened. When I read this book it I thought it was the funniest thing ever but that was awhile ago. I love this random book because it is easy to read, and quite funny. I think everyone should read this books. So read it now! ~Bookworm~
I had this book as a child and the moment I opened it up to RABBITS HOUSE a diagram of the interior of the rabbit families home, I remembered how much I LOVED it. In turn I have purchased copies for all my children, and am sure when I have grandchildren they will get their own copy. I was so pleased to find out it had been reissued in the same cover.
I recommend this book all the time. It is a wonderful book for a child to grow with. It has everything from the alphabet and colors to easy reading stories to bedtime stories to read to the little ones. Good to carry everywhere for those times when the kids are getting cranky. Lots to occupy their busy minds.
My kids love looking at this book in the car...lots of fun pictures and stories. A number of the pages are scenes with everything labeled or different concepts (colors, counting etc). It's a great book to take along for quiet reading while at the doctors or someplace else since it's large enough to keep them entertained for awhile.
Richard Scarry's books are great for young children. They have interactive pages. The pages have a collection of short vignettes or little descriptive explanations of activities. Thus these books can be read in bits, so they are good for engagement of young children. They are great for print motivation as well as print awareness.
My first grade teacher gave everyone in her class a copy of this. I read it, and re-read it, and re-read it. It didn't exactly teach me to read, but it certainly helped. And Yes, I still have it, falling apart though it is, poor thing.Want a good book for a child beginning to read? Look no further.
I read this to Lydia, and of course she didn't pay attention (she's five months old), but I still enjoyed it. I love this book partly for the nostalgia (my parents read it to me when I was young), partly for the anthropomorphic animals (this book might be why I love animals in hats so much), partly for the wonderful art.
This book was okay, but I would highly very recommend "Richard Scarry's Cars and Trucks and Things that Go." The images in both books are detailed and inspire conversation, but this book lacks a consistent narrative. When the child gets a long enough attention span, the storyline in "Things that Go" makes it more enjoyable than this one.
