https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1442651.The_Adventure_of_the_Lion_s_Mane
Holmes’ friend Harold Stackhurst is the headmaster of a nearby preparatory school called The Gables.
Holmes is enjoying his retirement in Sussex when one day at the beach, he meets Stackhurst.
Holmes sees other people far up the beach, but they are too far away to have been involved in McPherson’s death.
Murdoch and McPherson had been friends, but Murdoch had a bad temper and had once threw McPherson’s dog through a plate-glass window.
Despite this, Stackhurst is sure that they were friends, but if this is the case – who murdered McPherson?
My review is not about the Audio Cassette, rather than a collection of short stories by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, titled after one of them, The Lion's Mane.
It was the first book I read in English.
It also turned out to be the first book about Sherlock Holmes that I read and, not unexpectedly, I found it quite enjoyable.
The fact that it contained various short stories not that much connected with each other also made it a bit easier to read, taking in mind it was the first book I read in any foreign for me language.I would guess there are not much negative opinions on the works of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and I'd recommend this book to any fan of Sherlock Holmes and mystery stories in general.
This is a tough one to review. The solution was immediately and absolutely predictable from the outset, but would it have been when the tale was published? Also, Holmes' skills of observation are seriously lacking (view spoiler)[ there are many ways he could have deduced that the victim had gone into the water, e.g., salt/brine/water on the victim, smell, muddy feet, etc. (hide spoiler)] I think maybe Doyle was trying to cash in only at this point?
Extremely disappointing and predictable. One expects a little more when Sherlock himself is transcribing but I guess it is better that Watson does his work on his own.-Rao Umar

Kul kratka priča o zločinačkoj organizaciji i Sherlockovom načinu rješavanja slučajeva :)
The ninth short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. Sherlock Holmes is retired, but a murder mystery intrigues him. An entertaining mystery.
Once again Watson is absent and Holmes writes the story
Интересна история, но ми липсваше Доктор Уотсън.
In this story, Sherlock Holmes is enjoying his retirement in Sussex when one day at the beach, he meets his friend Harold Stackhurst, the headmaster of a nearby preparatory school called The Gables.
Despite this, Stackhurst is sure that they were friends.McPherson also had a lover, and on further investigation, it turns out that Maud Bellamy was McPherson's fiancée.
A note confirming a meeting with her was found on McPherson, but it gave no clear details.Holmes goes to look at the lagoon formed by a recent storm that local men have been using as a bathing pond.
You are about 10 years old when you discover this story.
It is found in the book The Return of Sherlock Holmes.
I see everything in clear daylight; I remember this story vividly - and I read it 50 years ago!
I remember also the cover of the book TROSH; a very bland green cover.
I would recommend any Sherlock Holmes story as highly recommended reading.
Funny, it says The Adventure of the Lion's Mane (Audio).
Books are meant to be read, and yes, stories are meant to be heard.
Audio is only second-best.
Sherlock Holmes's retired and spending his time on his researches leisurely, but wherever he goes , whatever he does, he just cant scape from an episode. Its a bit different story without his long time partner Watson, I really missed him in this adventure. But as usual, Conan Doyle keeps the readers on the edge throughout the story. I'll think twice before going for a swim now on.
This is another story told first-hand from Holmes' perspective, but I think he was starting to see the difficulty, as this is also one of the stories where Holmes figures out the puzzle only as fast as the reader, so Doyle doesn't have the problem of getting too far into Sherlock's head. Still, it is better than the last one.
Having recently seen the film Mr Holmes at the cinema I thought it was time to read, once again, a Conan Doyle story set after the great detective's retirement. This is a fairly straightforward adventure, this time narrated by Holmes instead of Watson. Good characters & a simpler plot than some of the stories, but very enjoyable nonetheless.
The Adventure of the Lion's Mane was a true gem in the canon. Not only were the characters beautifully characterized but the narration by Holmes was yet another testament to Doyle's craftsmanship. Truly one of my favorites so far!
Another short story in the collection The Case-Book of Sherlock Holmes. This one is narrated by Holmes instead of Watson.
Excellent Sherlock short stories - in audio book format, The Lion's Mane and selected others. A fantastic narrator also
I had this one figured out by page 2 or 3. Still, it was a fun read.
holmes writing his own tales is a terrible thing to read, oh yeah sherlock it was the fucking jellyfish that did it
2/13/15 2.5
Sherlock Holmes, brilliant as always!
Origineel, goed gevonden.
Ha! I knew it all along! :)
One of my earliest travels to the world of Sherlock and the mind of Arthur Conan Doyle.
