https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313631.More_Than_a_Carpenter
I was at the height of skepticism, embittered with religion and disillusioned with humanity in general.
Christianity was the religion of optimistic but ignorant fools, in my opinion.
Hesitantly, I did.Over the coming weeks I found myself drawn to this book.
It was a faith that could be explored with the mind and stand up as robust to skeptical scrutiny.
This book presents evidence in a clear straightforward and intellectually honest way, albeit confrontationally.
It was not a disappointing journey, and ended up being one among many that was integral to my coming to believe that Jesus Christjust might be who he said he was.
This is one of those books I read with a highlighter handy.
And I ended up highlighting about half the book...Here are a few things that caught my attention:"Christianity is not a religion.
Religion is humans trying to work their way to God through good works.
Christianity is God coming to men and women through Jesus Christ" (p.
5)."It amazes me to hear so many people say that Jesus was simply a good moral teacher.
How could he be a great moral teacher and knowingly mislead people at the most important point of his teaching - his own identity?" (p.
I am not a person who is in doubt about the divinity of Christ, but I am a person who is very intellectual in my approach to many aspects of religion, and I can see why some folks on intellectual grounds disregard it.Here are my thoughts on this text, which seems to be written with the goal of giving a person intellectual/logical reasons to believe in Christ.1.
Ironically, for a text that makes an intellectual argument for Christ, I found chapter 5 (Who Would Die for a Lie?) and chapter 11 (He Changed My Life) to be the most persuasive aspects of the book.
The fact is, there are prophecies in the Old Testament that suggest that the messiah would have to suffer a humiliating death and be vindicated by God. This is argued in detail in one of the early chapters of "Not the Impossible Faith," mentioned earlier.
(Just read his account of the crucifixion and resurrection and compare what he says to what everybody else says.) McDowell also trots out the old argument that if Jesus' tomb wasn't really empty, then his body would have been wheeled out by the authorities and dragged around town to prove that he was still dead.
As a former hardened cynic, this book changed my life. It didn't change my life single-handedly but as part of a series of influences really. Nonetheless I've never been able to look at Jesus the same since I read it -- for the better I think.In my experience, most who suggest that McDowell's arguments are drivel offer no support for their claim(s), as if they're self-evident. My suggestion? Ask them to detail their counterargument(s). Then read the book and ask yourself the same question throughout.
Originally posted on Reveries Reviews.Jesus is all He claimed – and that’s all there is.This book is the most inspiring thing I’ve read in decades. I’d recommend it to any Christian – because I believe that although faith is the only principle you can base your relationship with God on, it’s super nice to be able to say, “Hey, this is real. I’ve looked into it,” if someone ever asks you. This book is an absolute treasure!
I loved More Than a Carpenter, I think everyone should read this book.
If you have any doubt about Jesus Christ being the son of God and that he died on a cross for our sins and God raised him from the dead.
This is the book to read it gives you tons of evidence that you can't dispute about Jesus.
This book is very powerful and it speaks the truth and I believe it has changed many readers to where they have given there lives to Jesus.
The book also reconfirmed my commitment as a follower of Jesus Christ and it has strengthened my walk with Him as a Christian.
The heart of this book is that either Jesus was who He said he was (Son of God, single path to God) or he was crazy or lying. For some to call Him a "good teacher" without being the Savior is a flawed argument. And to try to fit Him into a view that there are many roads to God doesn't hold up either. Either accept Him as the sole way to God, or leave Him out of the argument altogether because it just doesn't fit with His very own teachings.Classic book that deserves to be read more than once.
For instance, the author falls into the silly modern contrivance of insisting that Christianity isn't a religion, in order to dump any negativity onto his customized definition of religion and preserve the 'pure' character of his supposed personal relationship with god.When arguing against counter-apologetics, McDowell provides an underwhelming and often inaccurate summary of the non-christian argument, and then proceeds to simply assert that god is a better explanation...just because.
McDowell wants to lump all historical claims together and treat them equally, regardless as to what is being described.I suppose if one is unfamiliar with the common Christian apologetics and was already a believer, this book offers a brief, yet inadequate introduction on the topic.
One of the first books (aside from the bible) that I read that helped lead me to a clearer understanding of who Christ is, and into a saving relationship with Him. Elementary, clear and poignant. I haven't picked it up recently but I'd imagine it's still very much worth a read for the same reasons.
Wow. I read this for school, but let me just say I’ve been missing out. This book was an amazing testimony, and it strengthened my walk with Christ! Amazing. Highly recommend!
The authors pack a lot of information into this slim book, but it's written with a conversational tone and is easy to read and understand.The authors use common questions they've been asked during talks on this topic to start most of the sections, then they answer them using information they've discovered themselves or by quoting other experts.
In this revised edition, they added updated material and a new section on science to answer newer objections that have been raised.They convincingly answer the most common objections or doubts about the Bible and Jesus.
Christianity is not a myth and Jesus Christ is real, all the evidence you need are presented concisely in this book. I found this book at Booksale, and knew without a doubt that I should take it home with me. True enough, this book proved to be a blessing. I liked best that the approach was not argumentative nor persuasive, like Yancey's style, the facts of Jesus and his life are presented here in an unbiased and objective manner. You journey together with McDowell as his thoughts become transformed from an atheist into a Christ-believer and then a Christian.
I read this back in college when I was a christian, and I just read it again as an atheist.
I remember thinking it was well-written and scientific.
Boy, was I wrong.
SO much sloppy logic, littered with straw men arguments.
And what the heck is this "Aristotle's Dictum"?
I can't find any references to it on the web outside of Christian apologetics.
Basically, McDowell says the benefit of the doubt should be given to any historical document - we should assume its writer is telling the truth until proven otherwise.
if he did say that, Aristotle's an idiot.
This is one of the silliest books I've ever read. Anyone planning to use any of the information in this book to "logically" support their religious claims should reconsider what logic is. Stuff like the "lord, liar, lunatic" argument and "why would the disciples die for a lie?" are laughable. Don't read this book for any rational purpose. It should only be used to add a touch of humor to your day.
A small volume that communicated well why Jesus Christ is more then a prophet or simply a good man.
I found this book to be a pleasant refresher on why makes Jesus and Christianity unique.
The author uses quotes and supporting data from a varied group of individuals, and clearly shows, that you cannot partly believe in Christ, for you either believe he was the son of God, or alternatively, you believe he was a lunatic or a fraud.
McDowell shows his communication ability in the fact that he is able to display how and why Jesus is unique while also making it possible for the common man to understand and process what he is saying.
McDowell address many of the common apprehensions and objections that detractors of Christianity level against the historicity and logic of the Christian faith. The book is meant for people who are Christians and need encouragement in these matters or for people who have largely philosophical / historical questions about Christianity. It is not for people whose primary concern with faith in Jesus is emotional or psychological - this book does not address those particular challenges.
This is a great apologetic.One thing that I really enjoyed was when josh spoke about how Christ could either be a liar, a lunatic, or lord.
He said this:“ if Jesus was a lunatic then why did he speak righteously and with a good conscience, inspiring and teaching people.”“If Jesus was a liar why did he not tell the truth after he had been tortured.
If Jesus was a liar then he also was a hypocrite because he told others to be honest.
It is the only logical reason for who he truly was.”At the end of this book josh tells us his story about how God impacted his life.
This book demonstrates the case to prove for those with eyes to see that Jesus is God, eternal and infinite, and came as a Man to pay for the sins of the world.My problems with the book are not many and my biggest objection would be to the references to Codex Vaticanus and/or Sinaiticus as the "oldest and best manuscripts".
It doesn't matter if you are looking for answers, agnostic, strong Christian, Muslim, I don't really care it is a very factual non-biased book.
It is a very quick read and if nothing else is thought provoking and informational.
Don't shy away from it from the simple fact that is is going to be a religious book that is pushing Jesus down your throat.
It is very much just a factual account of Jesus's life and historical evidence to support any claims.
Very interesting read.
A great read! For me it just re-solidified my faith.
McDowell examines historical evidence that proves the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
S. Lewis: "You can shut Him up for a fool, you can spit at Him and kill Him as a demon; or you can fall at His feet and call Him Lord and God. But let us not come up with any patronising nonsense about His being a great human teacher.
This was the one belief that separated the followers of Jesus from the Jews and turned them into the community of the resurrection.
Christianity is God coming to men and women through Jesus Christ offering them a relationship with himself."
Historic analysis and logic combine in this short book to present a thoughtful explanation of who Jesus was and why He matters to you today.
It's a somewhat academic work from an attorney, but approachable through the use of common language.When I first read "More than a Carpenter" as a young person, it had a huge impact on me and I thought about it for weeks and even years.
I would like to read it again, but I think I will be saying that about every 10 years for the rest of my life.
هذا الكتاب يحاول الاجابة على الفرضيات التي تعرضت لها الديانة المسيحية على مدى العصور اللاحقة على ظهور المسيح، منها ان الله جل جلاله هو نفسه المسيح، ويتعرض الكتاب لاراء اليهود والنقاشات الحادة واتهام المسيح بالتجديف لادعاءه هو الله، ويتطرق الكتاب الى قبر المسيح الفارغ، وان جسده اخفي حتى لا تسرق جثته.
كما يشير الكاتب الى ان الله جل جلاله تجسد في هيئة انسان لأجل ان يضحي للبشرية بنفسه ليعلمهم المسيحية.
The author takes a half dozen perspectives on how to prove the validity of Christ and Christianity. It is well done, and if it doesn't convince people, the book should break up many of the falsehoods about previous, so-called, 'proof' that the New Testament was not even written until the late 2nd century AD.Find it! Buy it! Read it!
This is a must read for every Christian especially bible school students. Learn how to defend the Christian faith and how to answer questions that bible skeptics will ask.
10/10. clear succinct and thorough. will continue going more in depth with other books though.
But now I offer the following brief review and at the same time share it with a number of people outside Good Reads.There was a time when I was very skeptical of the “facts” surrounding the life of Christ and who He was.
The Messiah they had followed for 3 years was just another prophet it seemed.Then Christ appeared to many (many) people including the disciples (in their cases at different times and places).
One thing I did during my college years was to attend many different Churches and Synagogues seeking a faith that I could be comfortable with.
A little book packed full of information about how to be a better equipped Christian. We need to be prepared to present Jesus to those who ask us about Him.
This is a great read for anyone who is skeptical about Christianity, new to the religion or has already rooted in church.Having read this book, a lot of my doubts has been clear up but, at the same time, I feel like I have even more questions in my head that need to be answered.
I don't mean this in a bad way.
This one of those books that makee you think, makes ask questions and makes you desire for answers.As the author said at the end, we have a life of our own and he has his, he could only share with us what he has learn and what he has been through and the final decision is ours.My review is simple and poorly written but this book is detailed and very logically laid out.
