https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11168.Day
The writing is compressed, the tone conversational.
One would not think the language capable of handling so many large themes--God, the Holocaust, Hell, Suffering, Love--that the author freights it with.
The writing is deft.
The narrator, a Holocaust survivor, is in wrenching pain, both physical and emotional.
Eliezer, the narrator, cannot let go of his anger and despair.
He was raised with a strong belief in God which his experience in the camps has annihilated.
Kathleen, raised in affluence in the US, is his lover who, like Eliezer, but for different reasons, cannot wrap her mind around "the event." Both are sufferers of what psychologists would call survivor guilt.
Day is one of the most eloquently written books I have ever read and to achieve this status with such simple prose in dealing with so many complicated subjects is amazing!
I was not depressed at all, I read this book with intentions solely my own , and I got what I came for.
If your intention is to be entertained, DO NOT READ!
If your intention is to read about happy fairy tale endings, DO NOT READ!
If your intention is to be inspired to rethink your relationship with yourself ,the world, and how you manage life circumstances, YOU MUST READ!
I was disappointed with this one even more than I was with “Dawn”. “Night” is powerful and the other two are a definite let-down and depressing. I cannot understand why these three books are part of a trilogy. The last two are a bit muddling and all over the place. I almost abandoned both of them.
3.5The one big flaw in this work is one I mentioned in my last read: didactic dialogue.
The narrator’s thoughts I could believe in, though they were a bit tedious at times, but much of the dialogue did not feel real.
What does feel real is the suffering of a man who saw human beings at their worst.
He survives by communing with his dead, and engaging superficially with the living.
This novella was once called The Accident and I wondered why the title was changed until I got to the penultimate page: the most affecting part of the story, along with the almost-unbearable Night-like flashbacks.
Which leads us to the burning question of this novel: “Is it ever possible for Holocaust survivors to create new lives for themselves without remembering their old ones?” In Day, Wiesel gives a brief glimpse of his life in New York City — many years after the war — and the struggles he faces connecting in love, feeling undeserving of life’s gifts and pleasures, being incapable of honesty to others, as well as himself, the list goes on and on.
A little more biographical than the second book.I thought the idea of being living history was interesting - especially the way that was carried over into to into his mental state.
Description: The publication of Day restores Elie Wiesel's original title to the novel initially published in English as The Accident and clearly establishes it as the powerful conclusion to the author's classic trilogy of Holocaust literature, which includes his memoir Night and novel Dawn.
Torn between choosing life or death, Day again and again returns to the guiding questions that inform Wiesel's trilogy: the meaning and worth of surviving the annihilation of a race, the effects of the Holocaust upon the modern character of the Jewish people, and the loss of one's religious faith in the face of mass murder and human exterminationRead by George GuidallAlthough this is a novel, it does draw heavily on real events in Wiesel's life.UR Night (The Night Trilogy, #1) *WL Dawn (The Night Trilogy, #2) 2* Day (The Night Trilogy, #3) TR A Mad Desire to Dance * Un-rated because it was such a gruelling account
The problem is not: to be or not to be. But rather: to be and not to be. What it comes down to is that man lives while dying, that he represents death to the living, and that's where tragedy begins. God, what a disappointment. After loving Night and Dawn, I expected I will love Day as well. But whereas the previous novels had very strong messages, this one didn't really tell me anything rather than 'after a hellish life of Holocaust and torture, one can't simply love again and be happy.'Honestl
The problem is not: to be or not to be.
After loving Night and Dawn, I expected I will love Day as well.
But whereas the previous novels had very strong messages, this one didn't really tell me anything rather than 'after a hellish life of Holocaust and torture, one can't simply love again and be happy.'Honestly?
The whole book was a hundred pages of depressive thoughts with vague descriptions that made you feel bored and left you unattached to the story in a way that you simply could not care.I was expecting much of a better ending for this trilogy.
I liked that this final piece of the Night trilogy contained more autobiographical aspects than the previous work, Dawn. I also enjoyed the more philosophical themes touching on religion and God throughout this book but neither of the two compare to the first and most powerful installment, Night.
Lo que se produjo se volverá a producir. Las mismas causas engendran los mismos efectos, los mismos odios. La repetición es un factor decisivo de lo trágico de nuestra condición.
I was expecting so much more really ... my least favorite of the three , I am kind of disappointed actually
I think of the impossibility of living anyone else's suffering and of the meaning of suffering and of God's role in humans' lives.Eliezer, a journalist survivor, finds himself in hospital, gravely wounded in a car accident He cannot love; he cannot lift the black veil of his grandmother that seems to turn the world on its head.
He cannot let go of his memories; they will not allow him to forgive or live or shed that which impedes life.In the last few pages his friend Gyula, an artist, paints his picture during the last days of hospitalization.
How can a book told from the perspective of a nihilist, someone who is the very definition of survivor's guilt, be so incredibly moving?
Day, the final book of the Elie Wiesel's Night series is full of gems.
I can't remember ever re-reading so many sentences because they were so profound, so full of the stuff life is made of, which is astounding coming from the narrator.Night was dark, horrific, yet very moving.
With Day we find that life continues, even if the survivors of the worst treatment imaginable don't necessarily want it to.And one more thing about all three books, the Prefaces alone are worth their weight in gold.
As much as I wanted to linger over the language, I also wanted to know what was going to happen.The English title refers to the accident that happens to Eliezer, the first-person narrator, within the first chapter of the book.
Yes, Wiesel does something similar to Camus (I've only read The Fall so far, but the parallels are evident), but his chosen title has its own meaning and purpose.Eliezer gets hit by a taxi while crossing a busy intersection in Manhattan.
Throughout the narrative, Eliezer tells the reader what is happening now, since the accident, but he also shows us events from the past that make the current thoughts make sense.
People all too often confuse "suffering" with "perseverance." With the later you can certainly make meaning from overcoming or surviving something horrific.
But suffering in and of itself has no meaning, and while bleak, it does tend to bring out the worst in people.
Lastly, while I could see this as a fictional sequel to Night, this novel does not really address the events of Dawn.
Normally, this would not be an issue, but given where things left with Dawn, it does not make much narrative sense that there would be no reflections on what seemed to be fairly significant acts.
"i write to understand as much as to be understood." -- elie wieselas a reader, i am thankful for authors like mr.
as a human being, the amount of pain and suffering in this world suffocates me.
wiesel makes me believe that despite all the pain and ugliness in this world there is so much more good.
wiesel who through his honest, painful, unflinching novels has helped me see that fighting for peace, understanding, and hope is not foolish in the face of suffering and madness, but essential.
I didn't notice as I chose the version of the book that I did that it included only Night. The cover looks the same but my book includes the entire trilogy so I will write about all three. If I could give ten stars, that would still seem inadequate for this book. It is beautifully written but more to the point it unveils the depth of despair that those who suffered through the holocaust experienced. But Weisel doesn't leave it there. In three very short volumes, he explains through the voices o
I didn't notice as I chose the version of the book that I did that it included only Night.
The cover looks the same but my book includes the entire trilogy so I will write about all three.
The trilogy is a testament to the human spirit.
I usually write very short reviews that don't follow the usual, more academic model.
In the case of this book, I feel like I could write a great deal more but it seems unnecessary.
For me, it is more than a contribution to history and literature, it is a contribution to humanity.
The sequel to Dawn. A continuation of Elisha's story. Good but nothing special. I needed more from this duology.
A dark meditation on how hard it is to find meaning in life after enduring the tragic and unexplainable suffering of the Holocaust experience. How could God allow such suffering and abandonment? How can a person deeply love another after witnessing and suffering post traumatic stress from the death camp experience? How can one see beauty again in the world and other people?
This last book of the trilogy was much better than Dawn but not quite as good as Night. I really liked the ending as the figurative painting of the author's past laid in ashes on the floor of his hospital room. What a stroke of literary genius! Even though the second book was the "weak link" of the trilogy, I still suggest reading all of the books straight through from start to finish.
Este é o terceiro livro de uma trilogia e o segundo que leio da mesma (fica o Amanhecer por ler porque não o consegui encontrar). Gostei muito do Noite e gostei muito do Dia. É um livro angustiante, um livro escrito na primeira pessoa por alguém atormentado, torturado por um passado que não o abandona. Quem vê o que eles viram não esquece, não se liberta. E, para fazer os outro felizes, acaba por ter de mentir, por ser um fingidor. Não ama, mas finge que ama. Não quer viver, mas finge que quer.Os fantasmas não nos abandonam.
Wiesel is a great writer, bringing simple ideas flowering outward into complex yet understandable arguments...
anyone who has struggled with life and society and humanity will feel a kinship while reading this...
as a survivor of the Final Solution, Wiesel has an obviously unique and tortured perspective with which to view the universe...
this is a hard book, hard on one's sense of thinking humanity has learned nothing from its centuries of mass murder and genocide and war except how to do all those things more efficiently and remorselessly, with a hefty dose of nationalistic self-righteousness to boot...
a thinking book more than a feeling book for me, but ultimately a powerful read...

This book tore my heart out.
Now, I'm lying on my bed and I feel like crying.
Can one ever succeed in living a normal life?
This book seems to answer "no", but that "no" is ambiguous towards the end.
I hope the true answer is "yes".
I don't know enough about Elie wiesel to know if he found a "yes" or not.
I hope he did.
I hope he did.
I hope we can put out suffering behind us, individually, nationally, and as humankind, and that we can move forward to freedom and to a life of goodness once again.
I don’t know how I feel about this one quite yet. It is engaging, sad, umconfortable. The Holocaust literature rich but not so when it comes to discussing in the aftermath in a very raw, bitter, helpless manner. At the end of the day Elie Wiesel convinced me that that living post-war did not necessarily mean surviving.
Mr. Wiesel has a direct line to my feelings and thoughts. I love the way he questions love, faith, God, our existence. It's unfortunate, sad, tragic, and unreal that he had to experience something so horrendous though. I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the trilogy.
On the heels of teaching Night again, I was swept up in the aftermath of a survivor's journey back into living. I wouldn't say this book is enjoyable, but Wiesel's honest portrayal of living with the memories of the Holocaust were as raw and human as surviving the camp itself.
This is a very powerful book! The imagery and comparisons are vivid!
Used this book to ease myself into reading Night by Elie Wiesel.
Now to attempt Night.Update after thinking about the book:One thing that makes this book difficult is it more a book of questions than answers.
I couldn't let go of the scene and kept asking myself what would I say if I had been the stranger.Though it is a supreme act of ego I think this would be my answer:Thank you.
Not exist but, live for me who can no longer do so.
Enjoy what you eat and remember you are eating for me.
Do not make me live in the camps.
Oh, God, why, why, why... why would someone given the option to create a fictional universe make one so... so... depressing, with seemingly no reason to it?!—that's the deal you see, I can handle depressing.  The Road  is depressing, so depressing it actually depressed my wife. But it has a message: if we don't stop fucking around, this is the endgame. This, apparently, is supposed to be about how Holocaust survivors can never find true happiness and blah blah blah, and about how hard it is to b
I've spoken to four different Holocaust survivors, two of which were camp survivors, both Auschwitz, who saw dead babies being shoveled onto trucks with pitchforks like hay and Joseph Mengele pointing left (work) or right (crematoria) for each new arrival.
To me, obviously not being a Holocaust survivor, and unable to speak for them at all, the Holocaust is a reason to believe in love, not to give up on it, because it was Hell; it was the absolute dark night of humanity, and we won, the soldiers who payed the ultimate sacrifice or were prepared to, my grandparents amongst them, won.
