https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7349285-dimanche-and-other-stories
Buena recopilación de relatos que muestran el modo de escribir y la temática de la autora.Yo casi lo he leído de tirón, pero es de esos libros que viene bien tener para ojear de vez en cuando.Relatos como "El desconocido", "La Ogresa", "Fraternidad", "Domingo"...son representativos de una autora que este año me está haciendo pasar horas maravillosas.Muy recomendable.
This is a truly wonderful collection, beautifully written, atmospheric stories, breathtakingly observed, some are almost like short novels in themselves, and peopled with memorably complex but very real characters.
The first two Stories Dimanche (Sunday) and Les Rivages Heureux (Those Happy Shores) concern women of different generations examining one another, highlighting how women envisage their futures with and pin their hopes on men.
In These Happy Shores – the middle-aged Ginette meets the young Christiane in a bar, while the latter waits for her lover and Ginette tries to attract the attentions of the kind of men on who she must depend on for money.
Although she doesn’t quite tap the emotional depth she did with her unfinished 1942 masterpiece Suite Française, it’s easy to sense her growth and the shaping of her worldview.(If you want to read about her fascinating and tragically short-lived life, look at one of my other reviews of her books.
Both contain wan views of romance that don’t quite live up to Némirovsky’s typical use of subtle human complexity.However, the end of the book is mostly taken up with three tales about WWII.
Each one of those ten stories was an absolute gem; I would be hard pressed to choose a favorite among them. Nemirovsky's world is so distinctive, with its atmosphere of loneliness, disconnection and bourgeois aloofness. I felt like I was visiting an old friend I had not seen in a while, and I picked up where we had left off, smoothly and effortlessly.
masterful short stories mostly set in paris before and in beginning of wwii. an interesting aspect is most of the dialog is interior and in quotes, and what little is "said" out loud to each other is banal, duplicitous, rote. seems all her characters can reason and communicate with THEMSELVES, but loath and disdain others, even their own lovers and family. just wonderful art and stories. just imagine if she had survived the nazis.
Dimanche and Other Stories is a a wonderful collection of (1) short stories, written between 1934 - 1942.
Another story dealt with family relationships, self-centered adult children, and family dissension, much of which was based on misunderstandings.One story, as seen through the eyes of a young girl, who because of her age, did not understand what was going on in an adult relationship, and was left confused.
Another story, which left me saddened was about a husband who never really cherished or understood his wife, until after she was gone.The characters in each story were expertly drawn, and were all too human; some of the characters I pitied, others I disliked.
This was beautifully written in its simplicity. Nemirovsky weaves the lives of various social classes during pre-war conditions together, illustrating class differences, but simultaneously showing that these differences are irelevent in the course of human living. Highly recommended.
The writing here is so gorgeous I probably ended up reading the entire book twice. Beautiful and terribly sad.
another penetrating set of small studies by Nemirovsky. very fine reading.
In all 10 stories Irene shows us a dark side which depending on your view you can make the ending in your mind happy in a sense.Stories-1) Dimanche- Sunday --- this story is of a mother & daughter, The daughter looking for love & thinking her mother is too old & knowing nothing of love & life.
This story is the thoughts of daughter, mother & father.“Where do we find happiness?
Very interesting the thoughts of safety & doom pre German occupation.5) Don Juan's Wife--- A dying servant's letter to a grown daughter whose mother is accused of murder when she was young.6) The Spell--- A child's understanding via viewing adulterous adults.
The stories in the collection display the same depth of character in  Suite Française  — people caught in the war, people caught in their own lives despite of the war: socialites, politicians, children, farmers, artists. And Némirovsky once again displays how she can be both ruthless and lovely with her characters, her stories.In the stories “Brotherhood,” “The Spectator” and “Mister Rose,” we’ve got entitled characters, those who feel themselves untouchable by the war. And in the bottom line, r
And Némirovsky once again displays how she can be both ruthless and lovely with her characters, her stories.In the stories “Brotherhood,” “The Spectator” and “Mister Rose,” we’ve got entitled characters, those who feel themselves untouchable by the war.
[Not too subtle there, Miss Némirovsky.]Many of the stories are studies in contrast — and almost, always, the realization of a similarity that chills the characters, but leaves the reader going, Yes, ma’am, sure, of course.
And I was not too happy with that.As I mentioned, once I was able to reconcile with this change of tone, I was able to enjoy the stories — for they are ruthless and they are lovely.
Readying Nemirovsky is like having a bottomless stomach, paired with a bottomless supply of chocolate ice cream from Paris' Berthillon cafe (walk over the pedestrian bridge from the back side of Notre Dame and your first cafe on your right is Berthillon).
She has just the right combination of smooth richness and sweetness, with a touch of bitterness.
"Dimanche" ("Sunday") is a set of dix (ten) short stories.
My favorites were "Dimanche" (very typical, to this day, of a Sunday in France), "Le sortilege" ("The Spell") and "Le spectateur" ("The Spectator").
I thoroughly savored this book of short stories from before & during WWII in France, which is something for me since i usually tear through books too quickly to truly savor them.
Némirovsky was born in the Ukraine in 1903, but moved to France, went to the Sorbonne, and wrote prolifically until her death in 1942 in Auschwitz in 1942.
I like that she can write convincingly from such a variety of viewpoints: a wealthy man coping with a sudden change of fortune, squabbling siblings attending their mother's imminent death, an aging prostitute realizing her dreams will never be fulfilled, a servant confessing the terrible truth about the family she served.
In several stories--especially "Those Happy Shores," "Brotherhood," and "The Unknown Soldier"--characters find uncanny similarities between their own lives and those they might have otherwise considered the enemy.
The dawn of World War II is evident in "The Unknown Soldier," "Mr. Rose," and "The Spectator," and is especially interesting in its questions of how life is measured up when the hierarchies of civilization are disrupted (the wealthy bachelors don't come out on top).
Secrets kept for a lifetime are revealed in interesting ways in "Don Juan's Wife" and "The Confidante." The writing is unembellished and staightforward; this style provides an unsentimentalized portrait into the lives documented in these ten stories in a manner that feels both satisfying and true.
I especially liked the Fraternite/Brotherhood story, about the successful businessman who meets an old Jew with the same last name and the old Jew tells the man they are surely related, from the same poor town in Russia, and he must've come from poor stock because why would a successful person leave?
The businessman is skeptical, but is certainly struck by the coincidence.Other favorites include The Spell, about the girl in the Ukraine, and The Spectator, about the man who drowns in the torpedo-hit ship at the beginning of WW2.
The stories all take place right at the beginning of WW2 and Nemirovsky's character development is amazingly intuitive.
I loved this book because it's so French!
Having enjoyed French literature as a college student years ago, it was bittersweet to revisit the bittersweet days of 1934 in France, and the touching depictions of women young and older, as they approach their need for love and their view of one another and of the men in their lives.
Lives are lost, damaged, families suffer, fragile relationships are destroyed by the desire of each person to survive, and yet in the short story "Mr. Rose" two very different people find redemption as they make the uncharacteristic decision to help one another.
Irene Nemirovsky was not French by birth, but Ukrainian, although she lived in France.
Irène Némirovsky was a French writer of Ukrainian Jewish origin, born 1903 and died 1942 in Auschwitz.
She was well known in France during her lifetime, publishing several novels and many short stories.
She is best known now for the unfinished multi-part novel Suite Francaise which was discovered and published in 2004.The stories in this collection are mostly gentle studies of characters and relationships.
I enjoyed the stories very much but there was a dream-like quality which I thought made them lack emotional charge.
I would be interested to read Suite Francaise but I'm not going to be rushing out looking for more of her work right away.
I listened to this collection in my car on the way to work.
Narrator Cassandra Campbell is exceptional and lets the story speak for itself, adding just the hint of an accent or inflection when necessary to let you know who's speaking.
Némirovsky writes the kind of story I love, very rich in depth of character, extremely subtle, full of psychological suspense and secrets that creep up to reveal themselves.
Amazing that stories written 70 years ago feel so true, the emotions so relevant.
"Don Juan's Wife" and "The Confidant" are now among my favorite stories, up there with Katherine Mansfield's "Bliss."
But I decided to make an exception for Irene, since I loved so many of her other books.
The short stories weren't as passionate as Suite Française, the unfinished work giving her a lot of attention these days.
However, each short story peers into the human mind to see how it works, which is fascinating.
Her characters are always so fleshed out, and this is no exception.
I recommend it to everyone, whether you've read her other books or this is your first one.
Planning on a re-read to provide a more detailed review of each of the stories.
The ten stories in Dimanche and Other Stories, by Irene Nemirovsky, are vivid images of life, set primarily in France.
From the bourgeois and their social status, to the Holocaust horrors, Nemirovsky’s perspective on individuals coming to grips with their situations is compelling and startling.
Nemirovsky is brilliant at evoking the feelings and thoughts of the varied class statuses, and how they interplay with each other, in the daily norm of life.
The bourgeois, in the end, realize how their wealth can not garner them freedom from the terrors of war.
20 in 1934 Paris older one was alone loss useless doomed, inheritance led to every possible money lo
This book is a collection of ten stories writtn between 1934 and 1942. Like her others writings, Nemirovsky has a keen sense of detail. She is able to describe the manners and mannerisms of the lives of men and women in wartime France in a few pages that leave you knowing that person. The tensions between mothers and daughters, husbands and wives, are not contrived but seem natural. I think I could read Nemirovsky again and again.
I am usually not a big fan of short stories but I really enjoyed this book. It was a interesting look at the upper class in France before the war. The bulk of the stories focus on relationships and they way we lie and hurt each other. The last couple of stories look at the beginning of the war and the impact on France. The author was killed in Auschwitz in 1943, the end leaves you wishing you could read her reflections on the rest of the war.
Hieno kokoelma novelleja vuosilta 1934-42. Hyvin valitut novellit edustavat kaikkia tyypillisiä Némirovskyn teemoja: äidin ja tyttären kilpailusuhde, naisen rooli rakastajattarena, vaimona ja prostituoituna, juutalaisuus maanpakolaisuutena, pienen ranskalaisen kylän ihmissuhteet jne. Annikki Sunin hieno käännös.
Erinomaisia novelleja. En osaa tarkkaan määritellä miten, mutta kirjailijan tyylissä tuntuu sekoittuvan venäläisen ja ranskalaisen proosakerronnan perinteet. Molempien kulttuurien aromi on maistettavissa. Pidin kovasti. Kuvaukset suomalaisuudesta Karjalan kannakselle sijoittuvissa novelleissa jäivät sen sijaan ulkokohtaisiksi. Suomalaisuutta on vaikea ymmärtää ulkopuolelta.
I just love the writing of Irene Nemirovsky and these short stories are just as wonderful as her novels. While some stories were definitely more interesting than others, Nemirovsky is a master at drawing characters and setting the atmosphere. I am always saddened at remembering how her life ended and what has been missed because of that.
This is a newly-translated collection of Nemirovsky stories. As with Suite Francaise, I was astonished by her ability to write reflectively about the early years of the war contemporaneously as events unfolded.
Némirovsky is talented in her ability to look at an issue or event from many perspectives. This talent is wonderfully showcased in this collection of extremely human characters as they react to the upcoming/occurring WWII.
Another lovely selection from Irene Nemirovsky. Those who are fans of Suites Francaise will appreciate the depth and richness to be found in her characters. Ten short stories with different themes, some poignantly about the war that would soon take her life. I highly recommend.
Beautifully written collection of ten short stories, Némirovsky's Dimanche evokes France during the '30s and '40s in such a way that I can almost see Parisian life bustling as it must have been during that era. I can't get enough of her writing.
