https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77593.And_Four_to_Go
An entertaining group of four Nero Wolfe short stories, three with holiday themes.In the first, Archie attends a Christmas Party at a design studio, a party equipped with a professional Santa.
In the second, Wolfe, takes up orchid-napping by proxy at New York's fashionable Easter Parade, where Mrs. Bynoe, the wearer of the aforementioned orchid, is murdered.
The last story, Murder is No Joke (sans holiday theme) involves an esteemed couturier, ghosts of the French resistance, and a murder overheard--by both Archie and Wolfe--on the telephone.All in all, a good collection of tales, perfect for any festive--or non-festive--occasion.
Nero Wolfe wants Archie Goodwin to drive him to meet an orchid expect.
Dead body promptly made an appearance and both detectives became personally involved in the case.
At least their Christmas is neither lonely nor boring.This story has one much unexpected twist which caught both Archie and me - during my first read - completely off guard; very nicely done.Easter Parade.Nero Wolfe heard a rumor another orchid enthusiast managed to grow an orchid with ideal "flamingo pink" color.
Two detectives became personally involved in the case yet again.Wolfe's obsession with seeing the rare orchid specimen makes this story.
It always fun and enjoyable coming back to the brownstone on West 35th Street in New York City to visit Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
Archie goes to a Christmas party where the bartender is dressed as Santa Clause and the host drops dead after drinking a drink poured by St. Nick.
The wife of the orchid grower plans to wear it in the Easter parade and Wolfe wants it.
Things turn sticky for Wolfe and Goodwin when the woman drops dead during the parade.
The only story that does not center around a holiday.
I always enjoy a Nero Wolfe story and these were no exception. I think they age better than those of some of the others of their time. Perhaps that's because although Wolfe wants nothing to do with women (and Archie is quite fond of them) Stout is less chauvinistic than most of his contemporaries.
Could I have missed this one? I know I’ve read the novella, “Christmas Party,” because it’s highly anthologized. But the others were unfamiliar—and all good.
If you haven't read Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe you should.
If you have there is no need to keep reading this review.
Stout's work spans decades and reviewing each Nero Wolfe story is a little unnecessary and I intend to publish this same review as I finish the volume it appears with.First, they all hinge on the amiable narration of Archie Goodwin, Wolfe's assistant.
Second, Wolfe rarely leaves his house.
The stories are well written and far from being timeless are laced with changes in American life that span the twentieth century.
AND FOUR TO GO. (1958). Rex Stout. ****.Stout brings together four novellas in this collection. Three of them are set around holidays. They are clever and witty exercises in the mystery genre. The edition I read had a preface by Jane Haddam. “Murder is No Joke” is the only one not set around a holiday. This story was also included in another book by Stout titled “Death by Three,” but with some differences in the female lead character. These are short reads, but you won’t be disappointed. You will also get a chance to learn about Nero Wolfe’s early life.
Four short stories, three with a holiday theme (Christmas, Easter, Fourth of July), all from the 1950s.I think I liked "Christmas Party" best.
This, too, has a surprising revelation concerning to what lengths Wolfe will go to acquiring rare orchids, including asking Archie to steal them!"Fourth of July Picnic" is also bizarre, but not in a bad way - whenever Wolfe is out of the house the story feels unsettled.
Archie and Wolfe spend almost no time on "why" the murder, just "who." "Murder is no Joke" is another very clever mystery with an obvious set-up: a painfully obvious ruse to befuddle Wolfe at the very beginning, but soon that ruse takes on new twists and nothing is quite so obvious anymore.Top notch collection.
Well, it doesn't quite work out that way, but there are still some worthwhile stories in the lot:"The Christmas Party"Archie connives to get a fake wedding license for a dancing partner who wants her to boss to marry her.
Wolfe and Archie are in a pickle and it'll take all of Wolfe's wits to get them out.The story's plot is priceless and along with some memorable characters, I'll give it a:Rating: Very Satisfactory"Easter Parade"A wealthy philanthropist, who is also an orchid grower has developed a new species of orchid that he's keeping under wraps.
This collection of four short stories featuring Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin is great if you’re looking for a quick mystery.
It’s not uncommon for Nero Wolfe to have a piece of information that isn’t shared with the reader, such as the contents of the photograph Archie takes in Easter Parade.
It’s also not uncommon for him to trap people into exposing themselves instead of using old fashioned detective work.
That didn’t really dampen my enjoyment of the stories, however, because the heart of every Nero Wolfe mystery is the at times tense relationship between Wolfe and Archie.
This volume features three novellas centered around holidays -- "Christmas Party," "Easter Parade," and "Fourth of July Picnic" -- plus "Murder Is No Joke." All follow the typical formula: a murder occurs, often with Wolfe or Archie somehow already involved with the characters, Archie talks to a number of people, gathering evidence, Wolfe gathers everyone together, and finally Wolfe identifies the murderer.
If you haven't read a Nero Wolfe mystery before, this isn't the top of the list to start at, but it's not a bad place.
Four short novellas or long stories, each fun in a different way.
Rex Stout was at his (long-lived) peak in the late 1950s, so these are vintage Nero Wolfe capers.
In "Christmas Party," Archie Goodwin strikes fear into his boss's heart by announcing he's getting married.
"Fourth of July Picnic"--in which Wolfe leaves home to make a speech--and "Murder Is No Joke" both involve women named Flora.
My favorite moment comes in "Fourth of July Picnic," when Wolfe and Goodwin give us brief impromptu autobiographies.
A treasure for Stout fans; a good intro for newcomers.
This is one of my favorite collections of short works.
For one thing, I was able to figure out one of the mysteries--not a usual experience with Rex Stout.
Unlike Agatha Christie, he did not typically plant clues for the audience to pick up.
Usually Nero Wolfe deduces the existence of various clues that must exist.
There is also a story here in which Archie Goodwin plays an integral role in solving--also an unusual occurrence.
As engaging as Archie is, he is usually pretty much an observer.
He does a lot of legwork, but he doesn't all that often bring home the deciding fact.
I remember reading Nero Wolfe in a Detective Fiction class many years ago and I didn't care for it then. Not surprisingly, I don't care for this series now either. The book is a group of 4 short stories which seem to follow the same pattern. Somebody dies in the first few pages and the rest if Wolfe directing his flunky, Archie Goodwin, to perform various tasks, then he calls all the suspects together and tells them who-dun-it. Boring.
Everything about this was a bad idea. Four short and very straight-forward "mysteries" where after some decent but not great writing and adventure, everyone gets gathered together and suddenly new information is added which points to one person. He or she is the guilty one and more or less incriminates themselves. Weak and not at all in the class expected from a major writer like Rex Stout - poor first drafts that got loose?
Classic Wolfe, this time in four short stories with a holiday theme. I'm not a fan of these because they devolve into puzzles because of the length constraint. Otoh, I read Nero Wolfe for the lead characters and there's plenty of Nero and Archie. Just nothing earth shaking. Recommended to Wolfe fans and "fair mystery" fans.
The Christmas Party story was in my opinion worth five stars and I found it simply hilarious, but the other stories in the book were not really anything special (they were enjoyable, as are most Nero Wolfe stories, but nothing special).
As always Rex stout deliveers the goods and short stories are an extra bonus when you are short of reading time. I though I had read all of the Nero Wolfe books so very pleased to find one I had missed
Several clever Nero Wolfe stories. My only complaint was that there were so many characters, I had to keep going back and reading who was who. Other than that, I liked the mysteries and I love the interactions between Archie and Nero.
Classic Nero Wolfe TalesThese stories are from the golden age of mysteries when Nero and Archie were as fine a team as ever quaffed cold ale while discussing the cultivation of orchids and solving a murder or three under the noses of Inspector Cramer and Sgt Stubbins.
Three stories of holidays (Christmas, Easter, Fourth of July) and one... not. Hard to guess why "Murder is No Joke" made it into the collection. Didn't much remember any of them, so this is likely only the second time I've read this book.
Nothing new to say about Rex Stout 's detective Nero Wolfe. I just adore Archie and his take on his boss and each case they work on. Archie is in great form here, especially when he threatens to get married!
Four very short, but entertaining stories, each with a holiday theme. Classic Nero and Archie.
Can't get enough of Nero WolfeI have been a Nero Wolfe fan for fifty some odd years. He is timeless. Rex Stout created the most interesting genius detective.
IBook-$1.99- Bookbub. Always love Archie and Nero Wolfe,four stories in one book
Found all stories were contained in the Nero Wolfe Collection that I read earlier in the year.
Rex Stout is one of my favorites. He is a little dated now but is still fun and a classic story teller.
Four great stories all with a holiday theme. Classic Rex Stout.
Just imagining Nero Wolfe actually donning a Santa suit gave me fit of the giggles. Four rather lighthearted, short novellas. Enjoyable
