https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32498122-the-identicals
With a win, Harper ended up on Martha’s Vineyard with their easy-going dad, while Tabitha's loss landed her on Nantucket, doomed to live under the weight of their mother’s expectations.
A timeout from their actual lives might be just what they need to gain some perspective.It’s not an easy thing, getting past the years of resentment, hurt and ultimately blame.
Throughout the story, she pays homage to the things that make Nantucket and Martha’s Vineyard special; it’s a love letter of sorts to the two islands and might even come in handy as a travel guide *wink, wink*.
Yes, I know it is October, but hey, it's always a good time for a breezy, summery read according to ME!
I am a little ashamed to admit this, but this was my first encounter with Elin Hilderbrand.
And this is that story.In the middle of all of this, there is Tabitha's teenage daughter, Ainsley.
Ainsley drinks, smokes and does everything she can to defy and anger Tabitha.This book!
I never wanted this book to end..although I did think the ending was perfect.
I will promptly investigate her other books and then read them.
The Identicals refers to 40 year old twin sisters, Harper and Tabitha.
There is no doubt about it- like her fellow contemporary authors, Luanne Rice, Kristin Hannah, and Diane Chamberlain, Hilderbrand has her finger on what type of heartache can be inflicted on families in a variety of circumstances.
It's just for me,  I didn't feel the usual reading pleasure with the setting, the characters, and the plot  I am tired of families fighting and I am really, really, really tired of siblings being stupid- real life and in fiction!
All of my reviews can be found on www.novelgossip.com Summer isn’t official to me until I’ve read Hilderbrand’s latest book and when I saw that The Identicals was a book about sisters, I was pretty excited.
Tabitha and Harper are twins that have been estranged for fourteen years and they wind up switching locations for the summer; Tabitha heads to Martha’s Vineyard and Harper heads to Nantucket.
Part of the charm of Hilderbrand’s books, for me at least, is the idyllic setting of Nantucket.
I really enjoyed the addition of Martha’s Vineyard this time, it was cool to get a glimpse of somewhere new in addition to the comfort of the Nantucket setting.
Although I’m reading The Identicals in the dead of winter, I like the warm feeling I get from reading this novel.Tabitha and Harper are identical twins, but their personalities couldn’t be more opposite.
She can’t get out of town fast enough.Tabitha is a single mother to Ainsley.
While Tabitha is the more orderly and level-headed twin, parenting isn’t her best quality.
Against her better judgement Ainsley calls Harper to tell her that Tabitha wants her to stay at their house to watch her for a week.
Tabitha is beside herself when she learns that Harper is staying at her house.
There are a lot of unbelievable plot lines in this book, but the idea that a sixteen year old girl living in the United States has never heard of rock/paper/scissors takes the cake.
Pretty good. I actually enjoyed this book a lot. The dynamics between the twins and the rest of their family and friends is one so complex and drenched in drama that you cannot help being pulled in. This is my first Elin Hilderbrand book but will not be my last. I will be looking into some of her other books so if you have any suggestions on any please let me know!
“I want you to do what siblings are supposed to do—hate your parents but love each other!”  Fourteen years have gone by before identical twins Harper and Tabitha Frost face each other again. Instead of the twins being close, they have been estranged and had barely any contact. When their father passes away, Tabitha and their mom will travel to Nantucket for the wake.As teenagers when their parents' divorced, a game of rock, paper, and scissors will be the deciding factor in their separation. T
Fourteen years have gone by before identical twins Harper and Tabitha Frost face each other again.
When their father passes away, Tabitha and their mom will travel to Nantucket for the wake.As teenagers when their parents' divorced, a game of rock, paper, and scissors will be the deciding factor in their separation.
The end result is Tabitha stays with her mother and Harper goes with their father.As forty-year-old women, their lives have not been what they wanted it to be.
Tabitha is a single mother to Ainsley.
Harper's life is in turmoil.
For an easy, breezy beach read, look no further than the works of Elin Hilderbrand—her latest is so evocative you can almost hear the sound of the waves and feel the sand between your toes. Set on the elite islands of Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket, The Identicals follows twin sisters who, after years of estrangement, trade lives in order to save their relationship. Mistaken identity hijinks and plenty of romance ensue.— Book of the MonthRead more at https://www.bookofthemonth.com/the-id...
This is my favorite Elin HIlderbrand, I think! She has a lot of fun with the differences between Nantucket & the Vineyard. And the twins' premise is really fun.
A dazzling setting and great writing about a frustrating dysfunctional sibling relationship makes for yet another tempting summer beach read.SUMMARYA story about identical twins who couldn’t be any less alike.
When a family crisis forces them to band together or at least appear to, the twins ultimately realize that the special bond they share is more important than the sibling rivalry that has driven them apart for the better part of their lives.REVIEWLoved the setting of THE IDENTICALS in Nantucket and Martha’s Vineyard and the intro which talked about the difference between the two islands and how islanders view each other.
It took me awhile to get “into” this book.
The first 1/2 of the book was so S-L-O-W for me that I almost put it down but thanks to my friends on Goodreads and others that have read this book, said to give it a chance and I’m so glad I did.
The second  of the book was GREAT!!
And it made up for the first half that I just didn’t love.
This is my 6th book I’ve read by Elin Hilderbrand and it won’t be my last.
I've always wanted to visit Nantucket AND Martha's Vineyard and this book makes me want to
It took me awhile to get “into” this book.
The first 1/2 of the book was so S-L-O-W for me that I almost put it down but thanks to my friends on Goodreads and others that have read this book, said to give it a chance and I’m so glad I did.
The second ½ of the book was GREAT!!
This is my 6th book I’ve read by Elin Hilderbrand and it won’t be my last.
I've always wanted to visit Nantucket AND Martha's Vineyard and this book makes me want to go there even more!!
This book is the perfect way to really dive into my summer!
The Identicals is the first of Elin Hilderbrand's books I've read.
The story is about two twin sisters who are almost 40, Harper and Tabitha, and their distant relationship that has built up over many years, despite living only 11 miles apart on The Vineyard and Nantucket.
They are brought back together by loss but find it hard to put aside old feelings that resurface with what's going on currently in each of their lives.
Despite some of its predictable elements, I really enjoyed the story in The Identicals and it probably won't be the last of Hilderbrand's books that I read.
Harper goes with their more laid-back father, Billy, to Martha's Vineyard, while Tabitha goes with their formidable and exacting mother, renowned fashion designer Eleanor Roxie-Frost.
Can Billy's death change the way the twins feel, or is it too late?
I've read a handful of Hilderbrand's novels by now and many of her books have a similar, beachy feel, often with a focus on twins (this makes more sense now, knowing that Hilderbrand is herself a twin) and wayward teens.
Absorbing, enchanting, and absolutely irresistible!This story is set on the picturesque islands of Nantucket and Martha’s Vineyard and gives us a glimpse into small-island living, complete with alluring beaches, endless sun, infinite gossip, and competitive rivalry.
The plot is a perfect blend of heart, hope, angst, and drama.
This is, ultimately, a story about family dynamics, sister relationships, heartbreak, secrets, expectations, loss, grief, forgiveness, dreams, love, discovering one’s true self and the undeniable special bonds between twins.
It is the perfect summer read.
This is Hilderbrand's usual entertaining story of family dynamics filled with the tastes and scenery of Nantucket, but in this book she adds Martha's Vineyard to the mix.
Despite finding the characters pretty much unlikable in the beginning (which almost turned me off from continuing but GoodReads reports were so positive I decided to keep reading), they redeemed themselves as the story progressed.
There were no big surprises during the course of the story and it ended up pretty much the way I suspected it would.I do have one issue about how the characters behaved.
For me, Hilderbrand's books run hot and tepid with this one being somewhere in the middle.
I'm always a big fan of Elin Hilderbrand and she doesn't disappoint. This is a great summer beach read about sisters who have been separated most of their lives when their parents divorce and decide one daughter will go with the Mom and one will go with the Dad. Events ruin their relationship and now they must find a way back to each other and heal their relationship. The audiobook was very good. The narrator did a great job.
I knew I wasn't in for a literary read, I wanted a fluffy chick-lit style story to carry me into my holiday break.
So I kept going.While I kept going, I was looking for reviews of the author, and this book.
It's hard to find a negative Elin Hilderbrand review out there...however, I am with the small minority of folks who did not find this book enjoyable.
The number of times Hilderbrand re-told the plot-line through another character's eyes was driving me nuts!
One redeemable moment was the epilogue...looking at the story from Fish's point-of-view.
I've read many Elin Hilderbrand books over the years but I have to admit this is my least favorite.
The story is good, identical twins who were split by their parent's divorce.
I didn't like any of the women characters but they did become a little more likable toward the end of the book.
They all appear to be selfish and lack some character, especially the school girl bully.
Each chapter was narrated by one of the twins, Harper or Tabitha, Tabitha's daughter, Ainsley or Fish, Harper's dog.
I think I liked Fish's chapter the best.
Furthermore, she entwines past characters into her new novels.The Identicals synopsis:The Idenicals is unique to Hildebrand’s other novels because half of the story takes place on Martha’s Vineyard (another island off the coast of Massachusetts).
The Vineyard is bigger, more diverse, and more commercialized.The story is about Tabitha and Harper Frost, identical twins whose parents pulled a parent trap on them when they got divorced.
Harper is left on Nantucket to deal with Tabitha’s sixteen year old troublesome daughter, Ainsley, and run Eleanor’s boutique.
I couldn’t stop turning the pages in hopes that they would find happiness.Ainsley, Tabitha’s sixteen year old daughter, was a very relatable character.
If I read the last page of one of Elin Hilderbrand's books and I have tears in my eyes, I know it was an awesome book. What a great book this was! I laughed. I cried. Sometimes I was laughing while I was crying. Highly recommended!
Estranged sisters, wild teenaged daughters, love affair, family betrayal, loss and good ol’ fashion gossip surrounds the core of this plot making it a delicious summer, beach read!
Commonly set in Nantucket, Hilderbrand switches it up in The Identicals by bringing us, not only to Nantucket but also to the neighbouring island, Martha’s Vineyard.
The sisters, identical twins, are commonly mistaken for each other and they end up using that to their advantage.I read this one in a single sitting; it had me sucked in for the entire afternoon!
If you are a fan of Hilderbrand and are looking for your next summer beach read, this one is a no-brainer.
Review originally posted at  All Books Considered: 4 STARS I've read every single story and book that Elin Hilderbrand has ever published. I've also re-read many of her books and I look forward to each one; she now has a winter series that she publishes in the late fall in addition to the book she writes every summer but, still, her books are the start of summer for me. That being said, her last few books have been hit or miss for me. A few I've loved (The Matchmaker, The Rumor) but more often h
I've read every single story and book that Elin Hilderbrand has ever published.
A few I've loved (The Matchmaker, The Rumor) but more often her last few books have been just ok for me (Beautiful Day (my only DNF from her), Summerland and Here's to Us).
This book is about identical twin sisters that are are so different as well as Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard - two islands that look alike but couldn't be farther apart in their personalities.
I loved the juxtaposition and devoured this book in one day.
You want an American summer.
A really good read perfect for reading on holiday. I really enjoyed it.
Good summer read. Not a must read.
Identical twin sisters Tabitha and Harper and Tabitha’s sixteen-year-old daughter are the primary story tellers of this novel.
Even before that, the twins, who had once been inseparable, started growing apart when their parents divorced and Harper moved to Martha’s Vineyard with her father and Tabitha went with her mother to Nantucket.
They were seventeen-years-old when their parents divorced, so that can’t account for why Tabitha and Harper are so different.
When their father dies (at the beginning of the book), the sisters are forced to talk, especially when new events call for them to essentially switch places.
Harper went to live with their father, Billy on Martha's Vineyard and Tabitha went to live with their mother, Eleanor in Boston and on Nantucket.
All three of these females are flawed and as the story unfolds we find out what happened in their past that contributed to who they are.
When Harper and Tabitha were split apart they lived with very different parents.
The book opens with Billy dying of congenital heart failure which brings this family back together for his memorial service.
I also did not like the four main women in this story at the beginning.
Remember that cute little girl on Bewitched named Tabitha and how she would twitch her nose and be so adorable.
And she dislikes her twin sister, Harper, a LOT!Harper and Tabitha are identical twins who were separated in their teens when their parents got divorced.
Yes, Tabitha got a lot of her personality from her uptight mother.
Prior to this decision, the girls were best friends and did everything together.Fourteen years later, Tabitha has a 16 year old hellion (daughter) and has just kicked out her latest boyfriend.
Tabitha lives in Nantucket and has been pampered most of her life without her sister.
I really felt for Harper and Tabitha definitely got on my nerves.
I enjoy those books but it seems that you have more chance to get chosen to be in this " marketing contest" Have read 1/4th now of this book and it is quite eccentric and a tad unusual and I probably already know how it ends but okay.
Give it a chance.Darn lost the rest of my review.Finished this 2 days ago and yes I enjoyed reading this minus the ending.
(hide spoiler)]That being said I would like to read another of this author's books.
