https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126507.Lost_Light
He finally decides to get busy by digging into an old, unsolved case that has haunted him for years.While still a homicide detective, Bosch had been called to the scene of the murder of a young woman named Angella Benton.
But neither case was ever solved.Bosch has never forgotten the image of Benton's body lying on the floor and thus decides to investigate the case on his own in the hope of providing some justice, however belated, for the young victim.
This is the ninth Harry Bosch novel and it marks a big turning point in his life as he has left the police force.
During the course of the book he begins working as a private investigator which actually suits him better because he is a man who likes to work alone.
When he finally solves the case the reader breathes easily again and then Harry turns up a shocker of a twist and exposes two more murderers.
Oh and of course there is a little bit of his personal life and another surprise in the final pages.
Yet another excellent book in this great series.
Harry Bosch, newly retired and living the quiet life, was called by a cop from his past.
But he had something he wanted Bosch to do - and when he heard what it was, Harry remembered the case vividly.
His determination to find justice for Angella Benton was what kept him going - plus the fact that what he was finding made him realise there was much more involved than the murder that had drawn him in...Lost Light by Michael Connelly is the 9th in the Harry Bosch series and just as entertaining as usual.
This is no news to those who read Michael Connelly - the man can write.
Connelly's presentation of violent excesses of FBI post-9/11 terror policing was frightening.
He is a quiet, very nice man, who was also an interesting speaker, and he did the most amazing thing.
Walking up to me on the street, when I had no idea he even knew me, he said "Lew, I have something to show you." He took out his cell phone and scrolled to a photo of my novel The Heretic.
"I found this in my room," he said.
Harry Bosch is about eight months into his retirement from the LAPD and decides to do some follow up on one of his old cold cases.
You know Harry...that just energized him.This was the first story in the series where Harry's narrating the story in first person.
The best part of this story is getting to know him better at a whole new level.
The case was really interesting with a few shocking twists, some I saw coming and others catching me flatfooted.
The new narrator, Len Cariou, did a very good job and I think I can get used to him.
Maybe it’s due to the two cold cases Bosch encounters.
Maybe it’s just darn good storytelling by Connelly, who always gets the feel of LA right, reveals a bit in each outing about Bosch, and who brings the man to life with his love of art, books and jazz.
One scene I really related to was how Bosch felt that he is no longer wearing the badge.
I started out reading the series and have a certain picture of the characters in my head, particularly Bosch.
I like his narration; he’s now Bosch for me.
Another good addition to the series & interesting since he's now retired.
Well, his actions weren't, but the mystery was in many ways.
It was very good, twisty, & expertly set up.
Each sharp corner had a good foundation that made sense afterward.
They usually weren't telegraphed too obviously, though.
I look forward to listening to it.Thanks to Jonetta (see the comments below) I've come up with a more complete list for reading this series.
I went back & read a couple of the short stories in order, too.
I HIGHLY recommend reading this series as listed below.
Well, he is, but it's a different horse.As this book begins, Harry is fifty-two and has been retired for a couple of years, and he's getting a bit antsy.
Needing something to occupy his mind and his time, he decides to do a re-investigation of the case from the beginning and finally put the murderer away.This story is told in first person voice, so we are present in Harry's mind, privy to his thoughts, throughout.
But most importantly in the world of Harry Bosch, he finds some justice for the murdered.This was a very interesting entry in this series.
FBI agent, Roy Lindell has a personal connection to the case, and I wish that Connelly would just spin that character off already.
We get a FBI agent who I definitely think is going to hold a grudge against Bosch, so it will be interesting to see if he pops up again in other books.
When we finally have Harry realizing how the two cases are linked and how a woman that Lindell is interested in finding is also connected your mouth may hang open.
But with the fallout from this case, you have to think to yourself that Bosch would be better off just straight up retiring.
Harry is no longer with the L.A. Police Dept., but he is still pursuing a cold case, the murder four years ago of a young woman named Angella Benton.
Harry was on the set of one of Taylor's productions following up on the Benton murder the day $2 million in hundred dollar bills was stolen by four armed gunmen.
He guides the reader through the clues that lead Harry's team to conclude Benton's body was found at a staged scene, designed to lead the police to believe she was the random victim of a psychotic predator.
Whilst this isn’t my favourite Harry Bosch novel, it’s still hard to pick any serious faults with it and this is still a fantastic read and whilst I don’t think there’s many people left out there who haven’t discovered the brilliance of Michael Connelly, if there are any such people, then pick up his books right away, he is an author who is in a league of his own and writes some of the most authentic and gripping crime fiction that I have ever read.
At loose ends after resigning from the LAPD, Harry Bosch decides to revisit one of his cases that was never solved.
Angella Benton's murder has haunted Harry for years.
Neither case was solved.
Now Harry is digging into the case, trying to see what was missed.
But the LAPD and the FBI are warning him off, telling him he doesn't want to be involved.
This, of course, makes harry just want to dig deeper.This is a turning point in the series.
I liked how Harry put everything together, even with the FBI breathing down his neck.
Lost Light is another brilliant novel from Michael Connelly. Here I was thinking that City of Bones could not be topped and then I read Lost Light.
As predicted with a cold case, things start off slow but then when certain rocks are looked under the heat from other agencies comes down on him which fuels Bosch's stubbornness which brings about some of the better scenes.
I also think that some of the better parts of the series is Bosch coming up against the upper levels of management and trying to get around them but as he's a loner now there isn't that friction or dynamic.Overall though the style is still good and it is a quick, interesting read but isn't one I imagine I would revisit or remember in the future.
The cash was taken during a robbery on the set.In a seemingly unrelated case, Harry has been called to visit a cop who had been paralyzed during a shooting in which his partner had been killed.
Harry learns that an FBI agent had been killed in a seemingly separate case, but before she died she had discovered an anomaly in the list of serial numbers of the $100 bills heisted from the movie set.
He uses the video to extort information from the FBI and to retrieve information about the original murders that no one would provide.
The former LAPD homicide detective has moved on to the next phase of his life, but has not departed from his true character.
Truly love reading about Harry Bosch.
One of my favorite characters to read about from Michael Connelly.
In reading some of the other reviews many individuals did not like the first person narration and I enjoyed it very much, you go to the guts of what Harry is thinking and feeling.
A lot going on in this books, you will not be disappointed but how could anyone when reading a Michael Connelly novel.
Bosch, present at the scene investigating the murder, fires a shot at the robbers, wounding one as the getaway vehicle escapes with the money.From the start Bosch suspects there is more than a connection; heightened when his former partner Kiz Rider, arrives at his house to warn him off.
Then Dorsey is gunned down in a bar and Cross is left a quadriplegic.When Bosch visits Cross at his home, the crippled man mentions his partner had taken a call from an FBI agent, Martha Gessler, around that time, working in the banking section.
Engaging, exciting crime mystery with a wonderful feel good ending.REVIEWER’S OPINION:As I was listening to this book over a few days, I was always eager to get back to it.
I wish more romance authors would write like him, just add some good romantic relationship development, and that would be perfect.In this book many things happened that I didn’t expect during Bosch’s solving of the mystery.
In this book 8 Bosch has retired and decides to solve a four-year-old unsolved murder case that still bothers him.
Ending: Exciting and feel good.OTHER BOOKS:I think I’ve read all of Michael Connelly’s full length novels.
Lost Light4 StarsHaving left the LAPD, Harry Bosch turns his hand to private investigation and looks into a cold case involving the death of a young production assistant whose murder is linked to the theft of 2 million dollars from a movie set, and the subsequent disappearance of an FBI agent.
The mystery is very compelling, especially due to the nature of the victims (an innocent young girl and a dedicated agent) and the diabolical motivations behind the crimes.
Moreover, the pacing is much faster than in previous installments, which adds to the intensity and suspense of the story.There is also some great character development as Harry reconnects with people from his past and several interesting revelations come to light.
Wasn't sure what this would be like now that Bosch has left the LAPD and is going it alone but it ended up being one of the best of the whole series so far. Intriguing twist at the very end which should make the next ones in the series pretty interesting as well !
Harry has recently retired from the LAPD and this is first case as a private investigator.
As Harry prefers to work cases as a lone wolf, being a private investigator suits him well.
He is able to interview various individuals on his schedule, as well as use his ex-wife Eleanor's help.
It's great to always see Harry always be one step ahead of everyone else.
This book also gives us more insight into the relationship with his ex-wife and Harry finds a secret Eleanor has been keeping from him living in Las Vegas.
Good mystery, great continuation of the life of Harry Bosch!
I think I am in a bit of a rut with four star reviews for Michael Connolly books in the Harry Bosch series.
But they were bad guys and they were there to kill Harry so it was self-defense.This is another cold case and Harry is operating without the benefit of a badge since he has retired.
Real books with paper pages are pretty much a decoration in my house these days.Audible books occasionally have some incidental musical notes.
So the jazz piano and saxophone music that popped up occasionally between chapters seemed appropriate and was even enjoyable.I guess if you read enough mystery books some aspects will be repetitious.
Harry, recently retired from the high octane LA police, is looking over cold cases he had been involved in. A missing film assistant killed shortly before a robbery. The suspects include the director of the movie, the bank people who had loaned $2 million in cash, and the robbers.Bosch has to swim upstream, against his former colleagues and the FBI. Do they want to keep the facts hidden, or are they covering for someone?Bosch has his own set of standards and integrity, with the single purpose of justice for those that society has overlooked.
It's just that it feels very after-school special, like Connelly is condescending to his readers to the point of poor Harry Bosch being too computer illiterate to search electronic newspaper archives for "terrorism" to see if there are any hits, then taking an involuntary tour of a secret FBI detainment center.
Because this is a Michael Connelly book, of course, a new reader will find all the necessary context clues to keep up with the story, and a returning reader will have a richer experience for knowing the background.
One case he can't forget.
As the amour truck arrived to the movie studio, 4 masked men jumped out of a van and grabbed the satchels from the guards.
The last masked man started shooting, hitting the bank's chief security officer and another bank official.
He hits the shooter, sending the masked guy flying into the already moving van.
The van, the $2 mill, and the thieves get away.Both cases are handed over to Robbery/Homicide to Detectives Dorsey and Cross.
But Harry is not a detective any more.
Of course the two cases are "high jingo." Someone or Something tries to stop Harry's investigation.
While he is dodging the FBI, pretending to travel from L.A. to Las Vegas, he contacts his ex wife, Eleanor Wish (which he hasn’t seen in 3 years) and she’s got a secret.
When the cold case is solved and an exhausted Harry Bosch moves in to solve yet another mystery about his ex wife, it is with shock and awe that my wish and my hunch were true.
I can’t wait to find out what is in store for us while he sells his house and moves to Las Vegas!
Yet another roller-coaster ride from Michael Connelly!Wonderful stuff, with a surprise final few pages (that we all knew was coming sooner or later).
And, now, thinking about it, the wonderful ending works much better as first-person ....
Great stuff.And, the single most extraordinary passage in all of Michael's fine work:“There is no end of things in the heart.Somebody once told me that.
It is all part of the same and will always be there, carrying the same beat as your heart.I am fifty-two-years old and I believe it.
And it is in those moments that I know there is no end of things in the heart.” ― Michael Connelly, Lost Light

Best Bosch yet!
A favorite series. This one is very good, rated nine out of ten. Bosch is no longer on the LAPD, but he can’t stop himself from getting in on an old case.
