https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/538757.Down_a_Dark_Hall
Antiquated usages like "Mother" were also updated, but what I was thrilled to find preserved was a sense of Gothic dread that reaches back to the early 20th century and beyond, where haunted manors, creepy headmistresses and raving lunacy were the top existential threats to teenage girls.The story begins with sixteen year old Kit Gordy being driven through the countryside by her new stepfather and her newly remarried mother, who are off to honeymoon in Europe while Kit is enrolled at Blackwood School for Girls.
Kit is confident that Lynda and Ruth were both enrolled by Madame Duret, and not her friend, due to similar experiences.Strangeness is afoot at Blackwood School For Girls.
The behaviors and dialogues between the characters made little sense, they were unconvincing to me.
The way the events unfold and the behaviors of the girls make little sense nowadays.
I have a very hard time believing teenagers acting that way nowadays in similar situations.
It should have been left as it was when it was first published.Beside my issues with the credibility of the characters behaviors, my other problem with the book is that I didn't really found it that interesting.
I would have imagined a horror book to be a little bit scary in the very least.
3.5/5 creepy branches - I would describe this as a "cozy horror novel" in that it felt like a creepier version of Nancy Drew. My biggest complaint is that I wish it didn't move so quickly. Video review of the book and movie will be up tomorrow!
And books exactly in the vein of Down a Dark Hall, which unfortunately I didn't get a chance to read back then, or else teen Shirley would have absolutely adored it!This novel is about Kit Gordy, who sadly gets shunted to a girl's boarding school when her mother remarries and as you do, wants to dispense with the inconvenience of a teenager she's had on her hands for too long and go on a European dream honeymoon.From the first page, I was reminded why creepiness is called exactly that.
2,75/5Aunque la lectura haya sido original...no me ha dicho nada. No he sentido miedo ni tensión. Al menos se lee rápido. Demasiado juvenil para mi gusto y una historia muy mal aprovechada.Reseña completa: -Wordpress:https://suenosentreletras.wordpress.c...-Blogger: http://addicionaloslibros.blogspot.co...
Por este motivo, en algún momentos de la historia se menciona el uso de nuevas tecnologías o la carga de dispositivos móviles.La edición es bastante sencilla con varias páginas en negro en su interior incluso en el cambio de algunos capítulos y su portada bastante oscura, muy acorde a la historia con toques paranormales que nos encontramos en el interior.La novela cuenta la historia de Kit Gordy, una adolescente que va a pasar los próximos meses en un internado llamado Blackwood.
Blackwood oculta mucho más de lo que parece.Varias cosas importantes que me gustaría comentar antes de que nadie se asuste: no da tanto miedo, es juvenil y está escrita de una manera sencilla y cercana.
It's a YA novel that was originally published in 1974 and written by the accomplished author, Lois Duncan.
I know had I read this as a teen in the early to mid 1980's I would have enjoyed it very much.
While the writing style felt a little dated compared to today's standards, I must admit that I enjoyed it immensely.
The change of style and pace reminded me of my youth and the books I enjoyed reading.
Today, we might call it a "cosy mystery (gothic)" story.
I think some of today's YA novels are missing this.
Because this book scared the bejeezus out of me when I read it as a pre-teen!I still maintain that Down a Dark Hall is the scariest Duncan, with it's ghostly elements.
I doubt that it would have the same impact on today's relatively sophisticated young people, but I can say that my daughter, at around age 13, disappeared into the kindle reissues of Duncan's books for one entire month during the summer vacation between 7th and 8th grade.
While hardly revolutionary now, given the plethora of YA books published every year centering around young women, Duncan's books were unique in their time.
Lovely 'vintage' gothic written for young adults but can be enjoyed by all. This story immediately brought "Haunting of Hill House" to mind and it continued to be reminiscent of it throughout in my opinion. That's a good thing because I liked it a lot, as well. It has the trademark Lois Duncan creepy ambience and great descriptions of the house, environment and characters. Loved Kit and her fellow schoolmates. They were painted so vividly and the paranormal experiences made me feel like I was there with them. Thought the ending was perfect!Highly recommended!
No me ha gustado tanto como esperaba, pero las expectativas han tenido mucho que ver...y me edperaba una historia más adulta de terror y más bien era una novela juvenil-infantil que tira más al misterio que a otra cosa. Por oo tanto, los personajes, sus relaciones, diálogos etc se quedan muy simples. Entretenida.
Blackwood es principalmente, una novela de misterio con cierto tinte de terror y suspense.
Siguiendo un cliché tras otro del género, acompañamos a la adolescente Kit en su llegada por primera vez al internado Blackwood.
La sensación se incrementa cuando Kit descubre que solo serán cuatro alumnas en el curso escolar y tres profesores.
Sucesos extraños e inquietantes se dan cita en la peculiar mansión hasta que el secreto es revelado.Escrita con precisión y buen ritmo, la autora va pasando de un cliché a otro -para cualquier asiduo del género- hasta llegar a un final un tanto precipitado.
I read it in 5th or 6th grade.While studying children's literature as part of my Masters program, we had to choose a book that we had read in elementary school.
We had to then review it.I remember finding the book in a local library and discovering that Lois Duncan had been busy since writing Down A Dark Hall.
The story takes place in a private school for gifted students.
It turns out there are only five students in this strange school.
It's amazing what twenty five or so years and an adult sensibility can do to shatter the memory of a long ago wonder of literature.
Kit Gordy was accepted into Blackwood boarding school and she was really looking forward to it when she thought her best friend Tracy would be accepted as well.
But Tracy wasn't accepted and as much as Kit tried to get out of going, she couldn't.Kit's mom and stepfather are going away on their honeymoon, but before they leave, they take Kit to Blackwood themselves.
At first things are okay, it's not as bad as she thought, but when the weird dreams start and other strange things, Kit knows something is not right about Blackwood.One word for this book is 'intense'.
Like Kit, you want to know what exactly is going on.
Este libro ha sido llevada recientemente a la gran pantalla por Rodrigo Cortés y puedo decir después de haber leído el libro que yo no la voy a ver, no porque no me haya gustado la historia sino porque no me gusta pasar miedo viendo una película.
El libro nos cuenta la historia de Kit, una chica que es obligada por su madre y su padrastro a estudiar en el internado Blackwood ya que ellos van a disfrutar de su luna de miel en Europa.
Kit no quiere ir nunca a Blackwood y después de ver por primera vez el edificio solo quiere irse de allí.
YA gothic/supernatural novel set in a creepy, secluded boarding school. A real page-turner that's lots of fun to read.
Un juvenil rápido de leer y diferente. La trama es buena, el desarrollo un poco simple pero es una historia interesante y entretenida. Los personajes son poco profundos pero están bien trazados.
Но на самом деле книга очень оригинальна.
Не похоже на то, что я раньше читала.В школу приехали обучаться четыре девушки, помимо них в школе работают 5 человек.
У героинь начинает получаться то, что им раньше вообще не давалось.
И учителя их не отпускают за пределы школы.Героини очень быстро догадались, что что-то происходит, обсудили с директрисой и вполне адекватно восприняли (ну поистерив малость).
Приятно читать про таких умных персонажей.Книга маленькая, язык простой и читается быстро.
Автор проделала хорошую работу, продумав всё.Местами атмосферно, но так как книга для подростков, не страшно.Не жалею, что потратила на нее время и советую почитать.Моя оценка 7/10, т.е 4/5.
She eventually introduced me to Daphne du Maurier's Rebecca, which I was surprised to discover, could be classified as "horror." It's actually more of a gothic romance, but as with Dark Shadows, we see that these genres bleed into one another.
Poe noted that gothic (or perhaps more accurately, horror) often draws its vitality from the death of a beautiful woman.
Kit and her new friends live in constant threat and the story lingers like a ghost when you're done with it.Lois Duncan had a bit of a revival when I Know What You Did Last Summer was made into a horror movie.
Escojì este libro por que pintaba una trama atractiva. Y aunque al principio me tenía intrigada mis ganas de iban desvaneciendo a medida que avanzaba las páginas.Me ha resultado una lectura de la cual esperaba otra cosa. Ya que su resolución final no fue de mi agrado
In doing so, I really think she added some plot inconsistencies that weren't there in the original edition.If I were a teen, used to communicating through constant texts and phone calls, if my best friend had suddenly dropped off the grid, I wouldn't be calmly writing her an actual letter saying "Why haven't you written me yet?" I would be a LOT more panicked than that.
We're missing them."I think there's an expectation in this digital age of constant communication - and for Kit to suddenly loose all that communication - no facebook, no texts, no email, no phone calls - that would be a huge red flag.
Es un libro de 235 páginas rápido y fácil de leer, con una narrativa muy fluida y que te atrapa desde el primer momento.Para mí, los puntos positivos han sido que no es la típica historia terrorífica, todo tiene un sentido y la historia que hay detrás te pone los pelos de punta.Otro punto a su favor ha sido la edición que se ha hecho en España con Nocturna ediciones, ya que los inicios de capítulo y el libro en sí hace que lo leas como en un ambiente oscuro, me ha fascinado su trabajo.Y como aspecto negativo, pero a modo personal, es que me habría gustado que la historia fuese más larga.
Je suis très confuse par cette fin que nous offre l'auteur. c'est beaucoup trop soudain. un chapitre ou deux de plus auraient été les biens venu!L'histoire était pas mal, parfois un peu rapide. Les personnages étaient assez attachant. C'était bien trouvé!
3 or 4 stars....a very interesting concept, and hard to put down! I felt there were a few unanswered questions at the end, but mostly I found it intriguing.
I love this book, especially since it connects to music.
¡Qué lástima que esté todo tan mal aprovechado!
Estoy casi segura de que si esa idea se hubiera desarrollado en condiciones para llevarla por buen camino, habría terminado leyendo una buena (o al menos decente) historia de terror.
Cierto es que hay algún momento de tensión light, pero ya.
Es que es todo tan, pero tan light.
E incluso para mi gusto, demasiado juvenil.Y por otro lado y para terminar, los personajes.
Pero es que están mal trabajados.
Y para rematar, no pueden tener comportamientos más absurdos en alguna que otra ocasión.
Y si la historia es mala por no saber aprovechar los puntos fuertes...
Okay book, for one that is probably more of a middle grade story. The beginning had some creepy moments and it was an original idea. I could see it being madd into a so-so creepy made for TV movie, that’s the best way I could describe it.
Kniha ma veľmi zaujala, má pútavý námet a garantujem, že vám z nej nabehnú zimomriavky po celom tele. Určite vás neomrzí, ani keď ju budete čítať druhý raz!
Could you imagine being sent to boarding school as your mom leaves for her European honeymoon with her new husband?
Kit is feeling more than a little abandoned when they drop her off and leave her.
The school is big, elegant, foreboding, empty, and she can't help herself -- she keeps thinking the word 'evil.' It doesn't help that the other students won't arrive for another day.
You may think this will be a typical ghost story, but it's so much more.
You won't even be able to imagine what's really happening in this story and I'm not going to tell you!
Gracias a Dios no me ha dado tanto miedo como pensaba. Está escrito de manera ágil y cercana, perfecto para alguien que quiere ir acercándose al género de terror. Además la idea que presenta es muy interesante, y me encanta lo coherente que es la explicación sobre todo lo que está pasando en Blackwood, todo lo que oculta el internado y sus profesores. Eso sí, me da la sensación de que termina de forma muy abrupta y me hubiera gustado saber un poco más...
3,4 /5🌟Blackwood fue la última lectura que hicimos las chicas del bizarro Social Club.
Mientras leía el libro imaginaba, en muchas de las descripciones que aparecen, la pieza del compositor Érik Satie llamada “Gymnopédie no.1”.
Dadle una oportunidad, seguro que os resulta una obra curiosa de escucharEn lo referente al libro en sí, es ligero y fácil de leer.
Existe una trama bastante ingeniosa detrás, quizá menos desarrollada de lo que me hubiera gustado.
Pese a no haber leído muchos libros de este género, es cierto que se puede observar un uso de clichés básicos vistos en otras novelas del mismo género.
