https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/526927.Burger_s_Daughter
What would you do if you were me? What is to be done? Don't read this if you don't like politics, experimental writing, breaking down academic jargon to the bare necessities, candid displays of brutality and bodily functions of the female sort, and complete and utter lack of book-bound solutions for book-invoked problems. For those of you who require more holistic commitment and saviourless methodologies than the likes of 1984 and Brave New World can offer, read on. ...he won't scruple to invok
I use this analogy grounded in the United States to explicate the contents of this book concerned with South Africa because while the United States is all I know, it was enough to teach me the difference between my words of understanding and others' lives of being a long time ago.
There is the reality, there is the cause, and then there's you, and if you happen to be white in South Africa, not only could you flee through the favor of government that looks like you, your life would be the one applauded.
I wanted to enjoy this so much more than I did. A story nearly strangled by apartheid written by an author with an indisputable knack for conveying tension in its many forms showed so much promise. But the stream of consciousness had me reading in circles. Even the dialogue became tedious as irregular punctuation obscured the sequence of speakers. The protagonist was too detached from all the other characters for my taste, preventing me from empathizing or understanding anyone in any profound sense.I'd like to maintain hopes for Gordimer's other work, but this experience has left me wary.
The revolution we lived for in that house would change the lives of the blacks who left their hovels and compounds at four in the morning to swing picks, hold down jack-hammers and chant under the weight of girders, building shopping malls and office towers in which whites like my employer Barry Eckhard and me moved in an ‘environment’ without sweat or dust.
Gordimer explores this puzzle in her densely lyrical novel, spinning out a fictional life for a fictional daughter of a fictional white anti-apartheid activist in 1970s South Africa.
The daughter's ambivalence about having been born into a family committed to the cause, her clear-eyed assessments of the tensions and fault lines within the movement, and her memories of what happens to a family constantly struggling against society are what make this book worth it.
But often the truth that this book has to tell is plastered over with Gordimer's impressionist language.
For reading this seemingly melancholic novel, the reader would feel the desolation, the destruction, the emotional torture, the emasculation of ideas and of works, the impotency of one filled with verve without a vent or valve.
The reader would go through several tortuous moments, reflecting the lives of a people who would not bend to division, destruction and death no matter how well it is shrouded and how white the shroud is.
And these feeling of pain, emanating from the book, does not result from the use of verbose adjectives or adverbs but the use of language itself.
No es un libro para un lector principiante ya que es complejo en su estructura y narración.
Nadine Gordimer toma a la hija de un comunista entregado a la causa de los africanos frente al sistema de opresión (Apartheid).
Desde sus ojos cuenta lo que ocurre detrás del telón, sus padres, y amigos de estos organizados para luchar contra el gobierno afrikaner.
También el legado ineludible que lleva en la sangre y, a pesar de una resistencia pasiva, este la encausa de nuevo en la lucha, no sólo por el deseo intrínseco de un futuro mejor, sino porque no reconoce, en ella misma, otra forma de vivir.
Nadine Gordimer is one of my favourite writers, as she manages to describe and explain difficult issues and situations not only around the apartheid struggle in South Africa, but also the difficulty of life in the country for South Africans sympathetic or active in the struggle.
Especially in this book her writing reminds me of one of Simone de Beauvoir describing her life.In Burger's Daughter Gordimer describes how the daughter of a courageous white communist freedom fighter, brought up and immersed in the political life of her parents and their friends, struggles to find a place in this complicated society and country.
She must make the decision as a young adult to follow in the harrowing and often humiliating life of her deceased, activist parents or whether to reside in the safer world of the intellectual expatriot.
In her case, she is white and has spent her entire existence in an integrated setting that, of course, among South African whites is looked upon with derision.The activist role is put upon her as a teenager when she is expected to marry someone who has been imprisoned, thereby legally enabling her to visit him.
A story set in South Africa in the sixties and seventies and tells the story of Rosa Burger, daughter of Lionel Burger.
The book explores the impact of apartheid on the people of South Africa.
She eventually does get to leave South Africa where she looks for a way to escape her father.
She spends some time in France and England only to return to South Africa and her role of ‘her father’s daughter’.
I’ve read a few books about South Africa now and this is not one I would favor.

this book is incredibly dense, but beautifully written, once you adapt to gordimer's style, which she forces you to do with her brutal talent. it's a good read for someone constantly struggling with the question of what to do with social injustice, especially when it is legally sanctioned--of how to reconcile the personal and political, or how to admit all of your contradictory parts.
Impenetrable is the best way to describe this book. The dialogue, the political events, even the characters' motivations. I often found that I had read whole paragraphs without really understanding the meaning. Who is talking? Why are they saying this? What South African political party are they describing? I hope the book club discussion sheds some light on this one for me!! :) Without it, I'm afraid that this book didn't really speak to me, despite the worthy plot.
While I can certainly appreciate Nadine Gordimer's talent, it was not a pleasant experience to read this novel.
Normally I don't have an issue going back and forth from third person to first, but the confusing part was Rosa addressing Conrad in her part of the narrative.
It was difficult to follow, and Conrad did not seem that important at first.
2: The detailed description, lack of quotations for dialogue, and the many names of characters was also difficult to follow.
Thinking it through, the novel was more of a psychological character sketch of Rosa with the story of South Africa as a backdrop.
Through them you learn of the complexity of the problems created by apartheid and the range of social issues rooted in a system of racial separatism.You also learn a great deal about the mindset and courage of those who were free to leave South Africa during those dark days yet chose to stay and fight a well-armed and oppressive foe.
And as modern-day South Africa has inherited the legacy of apartheid, the book is as fully relevant today as it was when it was written.Gordimer packs a lot into this novel; it's not a page turner, but a book that you soak up slowly and deliberately.
I read this book many years ago when it was first published.
I myself was coming of age, though on the other side of the world from South Africa, and the power and rawness of the story, along with the writing, rocked my world.
Recently I saw the book on a used bookshelf and challenged myself to read it again.
It not only provides a riveting, first-person account of life in the South Africa during apartheid and within the antiapartheid movement, but it brings it into sharp focus through a painful coming-of-age narrative, told with brutal honesty.
I am sorry to have finished it, but I look forward to reading it again in another twenty years.
Son la forma en que se me plantea la cuestión de mi propia existencia (p.53)La hija de Burger se me hizo una narración fría, distante, aunque interesante en ciertos momentos, como la propia protagonista de la novela: Rosa Burger.
La novela tiene dos narradoras: la protagonista y la narradora omnisciente que parece conocer muy bien a Rosa.La historia no solo se centra en el cuerpo y la mente de Rosa, sino en los sucesos políticos de la Sudáfrica de los 60 y 70, donde la brecha entre los negros y los blancos era muy amplia.
Considering her quest for self-discovery is what anchors this novel, the disconnect really hurt the reading experience for me.One of the reasons the writing felt so disconnected was because of a stylistic choice that Gordimer made concerning the dialogue.
Dialogue is marked by a long dash (is there a word for that?).
The choice to make the dialogue like this didn't seem to serve any apparent purpose, so it was difficult to read for nothing and came off as pretentious to me.
It advocates a cause that I'm 100% for, but the story was dull and the writing made the book overly strenuous to read.
She moves from being defined by her father in classic patriarchal fashion through definition via a love affair to a self-definition in relation to the world she grew up in; she confronts her country, "where the patrimony consists of discovering for oneself by what way of life the right to belong there must be earned by each succeeding generation, if it can be earned at all."Gorgeous, thoughtful, *real* book that seems utterly relevant today, not just for South Africa but for anyone trying to think about race, racism, and the legacies of colonialism.
The futility of liberal whites and blacks in apartheid-era South Africa to change the oppression permeates all through the book.Change finally did come to South Africa, but I'm sure that people in the 70's had no idea how it could come.
Rosa Burger is the daughter of a famous liberal/communist doctor who dies in prison.
The communist underground society seems as repressive as the apartheid society - there is no dancing in this revolution to rephrase Gertrude Stein.
But how can she feel bad about that when blacks in the country are repressed so awfully?
And in discussing the book with my boo club, I was able to see it as a fascinating and beautifully written account of what it is like to be the daughter of a white anti-Apartheid activist who dies in prison--trying to find her own way but ultimately coming back to the world she was raised in.
Burger's Daughter was published in 1979, so the discussions may seem dated now but offer interesting insights into politics of the time that prompted me to do more research on South African history.
Nadine Gordimer won the Nobel Prize for Literature, and I will someday read more of her work.
حظى دائما سئ مع سلسلة الجوائز ....يتم اختيار روايات رائعة ولكن المترجمين سييئين ....مضمون الرواية رق
This book was a revelation.
I had not read Nadine Gordimer before and will be picking up her other works.
The novel tells the story of a young White woman growing up in apartheid South Africa.
She is the daughter of anti-apartheid activists and while the book exposes the brutality of that system, it is really a novel about the search for identity by a person about whom all things are presumed.
No one asks her what she really believes, what she is willing to give up or for whom, instead the government, her family, her friends, enemies and lovers decide who she is and circumscribe her life accordingly.
Gordimer's writing is beautiful and moving.
This is the story of Rosa Burger, a young woman raised by political dissidents in apartheid South Africa, who now must decide what role she will play in her country.
Gordimer is the grand dame of modern, white South African writers, and this is my favorite of her novels.
The narrative style could be a bit disconcerting for some because it varies from straightforward to stream of consciousness, but the personal dilemma at the core of it - choosing between a private life or one that is political in nature - is made very compelling by the setting of S.
****************July's People 3 starsBurger's Daughter TBRNo Time Like the Present TBR
تقريبا ترجمة الرواية جعلتها سخيفة وقتلت فيها روح الجاذبيةولكن في العموم قدمت تحولات شخصية مرت بمراحل رؤية موت أبيها وامها وهي ماالت في مرحلة المراهقة ومن ثم الهروب لأوروبا وعيش حياتها كشابة ونسيان تلك المأسي ومع ذلك تقرر أن ترجع لتكمل ما بدأه أباهاوأظهرت الرواية المآسي التي كان يواجهها الآفارقة في جنوب أفريقيا في القرن العشرين
During the first half of the book I found it difficult to maintain interest. The narrative seemed dated and hasn't held up well. But I'm glad I kept reading. The second half was much more engaging and main character matures in a way that negates my criticism of the first half of the book.
Nadine Gordimer's wonderful account of what it was like to grow up in an anti-apartheid white family in the South Africa of the 1960s and 1970s.
2,5 stars. It does get better after the first part.
Group Read - 2015: The Year of Reading Women
South Africa is important, reading books about apartheid is necessary, but it seemed as if Gordimer was trying to make her character's story as inaccessible as possible.
(I think book this was more difficult to read than late Henry James.) The central character Rosa Burger is the daughter of a great anti-Apartheid activist and his equally committed anti-Apartheid wife.
The problem is that both used the same abstract, indirect, verbose, overly complex diction - so that they were both rather indistinguishable - as well as both being undistinguished.
Too many compound complex sentences that don't go anywhere!
