https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13651.The_Dispossessed
You feel that her anarchist society actually could work; it doesn't work all the time, and there are things about it that you see are going to cause problems.
As you also see in The Lathe of Heaven, Le Guin knows about love.What I've said so far would already be enough to qualify this as a good book that was absolutely worth reading.
The book folds the arguments unobtrusively into the narrative, and never shoves them in your face, but after a while you see that they are what tie all the strands together: the anarchist society, the science, the love story, the politics.
book covers in the sci-fi/fantasy aisles with a moderate velocity as though I am actually trying to find Civil War biographies but am amusingly lost amongst all these shelves, that's so like me, need a GPS for Borders.
Today, I will begin loving you publicly, proudly, for you are the Anti-Ayn Rand.
You do not skullf**k Ayn Rand and make her your bitch, no, too easy.
You take her gently by the hand, lay down beside her pruned, mummified body and have entirely consensual, non-hierarchical, process-centered sexual intercourse like a paragon of second-wave lesbian feminism.Ursula, you make me want to be a straighter man.
It is truly rare when I can see that a book is both a work of art and that also touches me in a way that leaves a mark on my soul, perhaps even changing my life, that I can look back and see that my path changed after reading.
The Dispossessed by Ursula Le Guin is such a work, a true masterpiece of literature, science fiction or not, that truly touched me.
Those following Odo left the paradise of Urras with its fertile valleys and rich natural resources, for the harsh, dry mining colony on Anarres, sort of a moon to Urras.Le Guin’s story begins about 160 later, with generations of the Odo revolution having grown up in this closed society.
in the present day (far, far, far in the future), heroically thoughtful protagonist Shevek visits the thinly-veiled States of the nation A-Io on the planet Urras in order to both work on his Theory of Simultaneity and to pave the way for change on his homeworld.
in chapters that alternate with this trip to Urras, we watch Shevek grow from boy to man on the anarcho-communist Anarres - the "Ambiguous Utopia" of the novel's subtitle.
and the true enemies of revolution are complacency and stasis.a closing word and quick circle-back to the sophistication of Le Guin's writing: i loved how Shevek's Theory of Simultaneity was reflected within the book's structure and by the political and moral themes as well.
When I started this novel I was a little worried because the prose seemed clunky and I was having a hard time settling into the novel. After a few pages that all changed, either I adjusted to her writing style or the writing smoothed out. If you experience this, hang in there, it is well worth sticking with this book. I see some reviewers think of The Dispossessed as an anti-Ayn Rand book. I didn't come away with that impression at all. I thought LeGuin did an excellent job of showing the fallac
I see some reviewers think of The Dispossessed as an anti-Ayn Rand book.
Bureaucracy, consolidation of power, judgment, and inequality always start to wiggle their way into the social matrix regardless of the intent of the society.
We've been saying, more and more often, you must work with the others, you must accept the rule of the majority.
The duty of the individual is to accept no rule, to be the initiator of his own acts, to be responsible.
Why do so many of us work for other people now when a generation ago so many of us owned our own businesses?
While my traditional reviewing habit was one of immediately rushing to the closest laptop after reading the last line and sharing my excitement or the lack thereof in some hopefully original way, I felt a need to really let Le Guin's words sink fully into my mind and make them my own.
(Actually, I've mostly just been very lazy in the reviewing department lately, but "letting words sink in" just sounds a little better.) But when it comes to making words my own, as this dear author evoked so well in this book, longing for possession is mostly futile, and so it is with ideas, impressions and most of all, inspiration.
Παράλληλα βέβαια,στην παρακμιακή καπιταλιστική κοινωνία συνυπάρχουν και γοητευτικές ομορφιές,πολυτέλειες που διευκολύνουν την απόλαυση της ζωής και πειστικές αρετές εντυπωσιακής πληρότητας μέσα απο τα υστερικά παράγωγα του άφθονου χρήματος.
Είναι φυλακισμένος απο δική του επιλογή στην φυλακή της απληστίας και καταδικασμένος απο τους δικούς του συμπολίτες που τον πιέζουν σε μια "αναρχική" συμμόρφωση....Ονειρεύεται ταξιδεύοντας σε άλλους πλανήτες να ολοκληρώσει τη Γενική Θεωρία του αποστολικά και επαναστατικά με σκοπό να εισάγει τις ελευθερίες της αναρχίας και των ιδανικών του στο υπόλοιπο σύμπαν.
You question a lot of things when you read this book. Loyalty, freedom, desire to own, work, family concept .... I think the author has written a great book.
“You cannot buy the revolution.
You cannot make the revolution.
You can only be the revolution.” — Ursula K.
Le Guin, The Dispossessed.
Le Guin's 'The Dispossessed' represents the high orbit of what SF can do.
When the vehicle of SF is used to ask big questions that are easier bent with binary planets, with grand theories of time and space, etc., we are able to better understand both the limits and the horizons of our species.
The great SF writers (Asimov, Vonnegut, Heinlein, Dick, Bradbury, etc) have been able to explore political, economic, social, and cultural questions/possibilities using the future, time, and the wide-openness of space.
Le Guin belongs firmly in the pantheon of great social SF writers.
So I will close with this: Shevek is the character I most admire in literature, and The Dispossessed: An Ambiguous Utopia is very nearly a perfect book.You must read it.After reading it again: I know more completely than ever that I am not Shevek, as much as I wish I could be, but this time through I realized that I do appear in the pages of The Dispossessed, or I think I've found the character most like myself even if we are not exactly the same -- Tirin.
This is despite our following a very interesting character escaping his pragmatic moon to gift his very advanced physics that would lead to not only an ansible for faster-than-light communications but also faster-than-light travel.The world-building is pretty amazing on both the political and socio-economic levels, the discussion of what men and women are to each other and just how amazingly different (and similar) it is between both worlds.
If people opened up their minds to new ideas, so much of this would have been avoided.During my original take, I was going to college at the time and I saw a lot of the same approbations and stifled thought in the academic arena.
This is one of my favorite books if not THE favorite and on third read I like it even more since I notice details I haven't first time around. I feel I should say something about the book but I'm not sure I can do this book justice. Review hopefully might come at some point.
I can’t begin to see how any anarchistic-communist model then works, let alone one which has specifically been constructed on the presumption of struggle, survival, utility, function, purpose.
Having begun the book with no patience for this, I eventually came around to the idea that her anarchistic society had to create its own language and culture.
Everything that had happened to him was part of what was happening to him now.’ Lately, before I read this book, I’ve been explaining the last 33 years of my life that way.
Almost 200 years earlier, a group of rebels left a highly capitalistic society on the planet Urras, to form their more utopian government on the moon Annares.
Life on Urras is much more pleasant and luxurious, but gradually Shevek comes to realize the dark underside of that capitalistic society.
The question is, can he escape the bind he's gotten himself into?The Dispossessed is one of the earlier examples of dual timeline storytelling in the SF genre, the chapters alternate between flashbacks of Shevek's life on his home world of Annares and his current experiences on Urras with the "propertarians" (heh).
Granted, Le Guin did have a lot to say about society and politics (shock horror!), but even so, that wasn’t what the book was primarily concerned with.
On the ends not justifying the means:
On the necessity of hope: 
She smiled, but it was not an easy smile.“How can you, if you don’t know what hope is?” 
And, of course, on political revolution: 
Le Guin handled it all so deftly and subtly that even the political ideology, such as it was, never really grated on my nerves or felt preachy.
This discourse on dystopias won Hugo, Nebula, Locus, World Fantasy, and National Book awards, and almost every single one of my Goodreads friends that has read it has it tagged with a 4 or 5 star rating.
I would have minded this less if anything interesting or noteworthy happened on Anarres -- what little did happen could have easily been worked into flashbacks in the current day chapters, which could have greatly shortened the novel, and likely, my enjoyment of it.- There was one action scene in entire novel, and, if you include the aftermath, maybe ten pages are spent on it in total.
Human nature tends towards, not entropy, but bureaucracy.I fear my review might focus more on Anarres and less on Urras, as it was the Anarrian sections that interested me more, the attempts to sustain (founding was the easy part) an anarcho-syndicalist society over a long period of time.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Anarres vs.
Urras - Ambiguous Walls: “The Dispossessed” by Ursula K.
In “The Dispossessed” by Ursula K.
Le Guin   "Call me Shevek.
;) And now having read the novel again after about 10 years, I am even fonder of it that I was back then.
So, yes, Manuel, Shevek is quite like me in many ways, but since I've never had a single alcoholic drink in my life, I am even more unreliable as a character!!And so this orphan is all alone without even a cardboard character to keep me company.
;)" If you're into vintage SF, read the rest of the review elsewhere.
So good. Maybe I'll write a review when I manage to find some free time.
That's the power structure he's part of, and knows how to use."I have decided this won't be a proper review, but rather a short, focused comment.The Dispossessed is one of those books written not to make you lose yourself in the story, but to make you yourself in your thoughts.
And smarter yet it's that "society" is never truly acknowledged like a real thing, there being no true for of government -this people describes itself as anarchist.
How anyone think to rebel against that?The disconcerting thing about The Dispossessed is precisely this.
I like to see how ideas germinate, not only to be told how.
Fulfillment, Shevek thought, is a function of time. The search for pleasure is circular, repetitive, atemporal. The variety seeking of the spectator, the thrill hunter, the sexually promiscuous, always ends in the same place. It has an end. It comes to the end and has to start over. It is not a journey and return, but a closed cycle, a locked room, a cell.Outside the locked room is the landscape of time, in which the spirit may, with luck and courage, construct the fragile, makeshift, improbabl
But the fact of the matter remains that, with every new self, every forward momentum of knowledge and insight, from a child on one side of the world gazing at a cave painting daubed in some unknown past millenia, to a child on the other grasping the instantaneous crossfire of the Internet faster than its makers, the labels are no more than a guideline.
An effort sustained by the thought that the effort will never be complete, with the kinder words of uniqueness and altruism inextricably bound up with those of egotism and naivety, where one kith and kind of knowledgeable insight will never, truly, be enough, no matter how much compartmentalization the simple act of socializing in theorized, standardized, economized forms demands.
Ο ένας κόσμος είναι η Ανάρες και το πολιτικό της σύστημα η αναρχία.
Από τον εποικισμό της Ανάρες, που συνέβη εκατόν εβδομήντα χρόνια πριν, όταν οι Γιουρασιανοί κατέφυγαν στον άγονο κι ερημωμένο αυτόν πλανήτη για να ζήσουν ένα καλύτερο αύριο, δεν υπήρξε ποτέ ξανά ανάμειξη κι επαφή μεταξύ των ανθρώπων των δύο πλανητών.
Ο ελεύθερος κόσμος της Ανάρες δεν είναι για τον Γιουράς παρά μια αποικία που του προμηθεύει μεταλλεύματα και πρώτες ύλες.
Στην Ανάρες τίποτα δεν είναι όμορφο, τίποτα εκτός από τα πρόσωπα.
It explores with great intelligence anarchism-socialism vs capitalism; freedom/slavery in terms of politics, economics, society, intellectual endeavor, and personal relationships; the struggle to perfect a scientific theory that unifies time and space; whether human nature inevitably corrupts all political ideals; whether political utopias can ever be achieved to a meaningful degree; whether only hardship and privation can support socialist sentiment; and whether we must therefore settle for capitalism and the pursuit of possessions, money, and power.Having just read all the many insightful reviews of this towering novel, which remains humble, grounded, and refuses to provide easy answers where there are none, I don’t think I have much to add to the body of discussion and analysis The Dispossessed has generated in the almost half-century since its publication.
My hero David Mitchell frequently mentions The Dispossessed as one of his favourite books, and it is regularly described as one of the most significant sci-fi novels of all time.
So I just HAD to see what all the fuss was about.The story revolves around two distant planets, Urras and Annares.
Urras is a bountiful place with a capitalist, patriarchal society, whereas Annares is a mostly barren planet with a collectivist community.
He travels to Urras to share and develop revolutionary scientific theories, and through his eyes we see the benefits and drawbacks of life on each world.This is a novel overflowing with ideas but not a lot of plot.
Excellent book, and I've dog-eared about a third of its pages - too many messages, too little brain room left! Review to follow.It's always easier not to think for oneself. Find a nice safe hierarchy and settle in. Don't make changes, don't risk disapproval[...] It's always easiest to let yourself be governed.
The lure and compulsion of profit was evidently a much more effective replacement of the natural initiative than he had been led to believe.A superficial and ideologically reflexive reader might think that Le Guin is praising socialism, that The Dispossessed is a novel that criticizes capitalism and democracy and authority in favor of some idealistic vision of anarcho-communism.
The Anarresti consider themselves a utopia and Urrasti society to be a dystopia; the Urrasti think the opposite.Shevek, as a brilliant physicist who holds the key to what the Urrasti believe will lead to profound technological advancement (including making weapons, naturally), is warmly welcomed to Urras, where they do their best to subvert and seduce him.
If it hadn't taken me like four mouths to read this book, I would've probably given it five stars.
So, the book seems to be saying that even Anarchy is only an improvement over a capitalistic society where people are suffering and prejudicial.
Why did I decide to review THIS book drunk?
Anyway, I may add to this when I'm sober enough to figure out what I've left out.I always try to finish on a strong note, and I can't think of anything else to say about this book, so I just want to tell all of you that I love this website.
Yet equally the social unity and mutual support of that future-maybe Earth looks utopian, Earth is Utopia to Shevek - the central character of this piece a physicist whose non-conventional physics can't win acceptance in the cautious conservatism of an anarchic community, Earth for him is a place that guarantees the intellectual freedom and respect that he wants.The paradise of Urras is a utopia for the wealthy.
The structure of the novel makes clear his eventual failures and the dispossession of his careful assembled illusions on on both Urras and Anarres as each story progresses in parallel towards the eventual hope of a new Utopia.Yet it is discontent that is the driver of social change.
Bu kitabı okuyacaklara bir önerim var.
Mutlaka bir ön bilgilenme yaparak ve kitap sonundaki Bülent Somay’ın Sonsöz’ünü okuyarak başlayın kitabı okumaya.
Orwell) olduğu gibi kim kimi veya neyi ifade ediyor, nerelere göndermeler var, anlatılan hikaye ile aslında hangi dönemler ve neler hedefleniyor gibi konularda bilgi sahibi olununca kitap çok daha keyifle okunuyor.
Ancak şunu belirtmek isterim ki bu kitap çok zengin politik, felsefik, sosyolojik hatta psikolojik bir kaynak kitap niteliğinde.
Kitabı bir cümlede özetlemek gerekirse kitap içinden seçtiğim “Düşünceler baskı altına alarak yok edilemez.
Çok beğendim ve kesinlikle bilimkurgu sevmeyenlere dahi öneririm.Ön bilgi için bazı inceleme yazıları:http://www.kayiprihtim.org/portal/inc...http://www.bilimkurgukulubu.com/edebi...http://www.arkitera.com/gorus/1158/mu...
Άκουγα ξανά και ξανά για την αποστασιοποιημένη στάση που κρατάει η Le Guin στο μυθιστόρημά της και την οποία, για να είμαι ειλικρινής, δεν είδα.
Παρουσιάζει την κοινωνία της Ανάρες σαν βασισμένη στις σωστές ιδέες αλλά έχοντας χάσει στην πορεία αυτές ακριβώς τις ιδέες που είναι και ο λόγος ύπαρξής της.
Από την άλλη, είναι η κοινωνία του Γιουράς, η οποία παρουσιάζεται σαν εντυπωσιακή αλλά σάπια.
Αλλά και έτσι όπως είναι τα πράγματα, η κοινωνία της Ανάρες είναι σαφώς πιο υγιής από του Γιουράς με βάση το πώς μας τη δίνει η συγγραφέας.
