https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/376237.Toyota_Production_System
The experience is a common enough one for many copies of Getting Things Done to have been sold but rereading Ohno's book on the Toyota management systems demonstrates how deeply weird and unbusiness-like the corporate life envisioned or even experienced by David Allen is.Ohno was given the task by the Toyoda family of catching up with American levels of productivity in the Toyota vehicle manufacturing business - itself an offshoot of the family's loom manufacturing business.

and are a huge help).Some will be disappointed in some of the wording possibly affected by translation and at times possibly because of the authors propensity to word some concepts with strong feeling.
I've seen some reviews (before I bought and read) that said the author worded things succinctly, thus the book was short.
Upon a 2nd (or 3rd) reading I got it, but it was work sometimes to get it.The great part to me is the context and impact of the core pillars of the Toyota Production System.
The author made those clear and conveyed well how much they helped.
5 stars for ideas and 3 for the writing.I wish Belarusian factories started implementing just-in-time manufacturing at least in the 21st century.However, there's another book on the manufacturing flow optimization that I would rather recommend: The Goal: A Process of Ongoing Improvement. The content is similar, but Goldratt is more easy to read.
This is a reread of Ohno's classic work in preparation for my SME Lean Silver Certification. This is not my favorite book on lean or Toyota but, is a classic and clearly lays out what Ohno-san thought the Toyota Production System was all about.
although I'm not interested in manufacturing this book has been very interesting to understand the reasons and background behind TPS. this book doesn't give any comment on how to apply TPS. It's also interesting the comparison between Ford and Toyota approach.
Во-вторых, несмотря на специфичность темы, материал подобран таким образом, что читать книгу будет интересно и тем, кто не связан с данной областью.В самом начале книги автор пишет, что вся производственная система Тойоты, которая «ориентирована на полное исключение потерь», основывается на двух главных принципах:•	Принцип «точно вовремя» (just-in-time);•	Принцип автономизации (autonomation), или автоматизации с использованием интеллекта.Далее в книге детально рассматриваются оба принципа.Принцип автономизацииЕсли принцип «точно вовремя» постоянно упоминается в литературе по менеджменту и бизнесу, то о принципе автоматизации там не говорят ни слова.
Мы располагали станки параллельными линиями или под прямым углом (L-образно), чтобы один рабочий обслуживал три-четыре станка».Подходя к вопросу уже непосредственно системы «точно вовремя», Тайчи Оно пишет, что они столкнулись с проблемой перепроизводства отдельных деталей.
This is a great book not just about manufacturing but offers some good philosophy about improving any business (plus an interesting history of Toyota).
The fundamental philosophy: eliminate waste.
What’s interesting is how he defines waste.
For example, time spent moving parts to a storage area and then back to the production line is waste.
The warehouse holding inventory is waste.
Anything that doesn’t lead directly to building the final product is waste.
With this foundation, they completely redesigned how Toyota (and the world) manufactured cars.
The book can get a bit repetitive but it’s so short that it didn’t bother me much.
The book showed how Toyota production system evolved amidst all the global events that changed the geography of the automobile sector. I loved the way the author has maintained the glossary of all the terms by reiterating it at the last page. My favourite learning is production must not confined itself with quantity and speed. During slow period the inventory will show by itself.
Overview of the Toyota production and management system and history from one of it's founder. It mainly describes three basic principles: Just-In-Time, Kanban and Autonomation. Book is not very well written, and sometimes author jumps from topic to topic rapidly. But it is quite short and still very valuable reading for engineers and managers of production projects.
Handy introduction to the principles of lean manufacturing in Toyota, providing foundations for numerous non-manufacturing applications - from scrum and agile project management to lean startups. Short, concise, written in a simple and matter-of-fact style. "Progress cannot be generated when we are satisfied with existing solutions."
Fundamental to learning lean, practicing lean and coaching lean.
Çeviri iyileştirilmeli.
From the mastermind behind the system. What else would one need to know?
Üretim üzerine Dünya ya yön vermiş ruhun nasıl olması gerektiğini gösteren mutlaka okunması gereken bir kitap
Nice reminder that Deming didn’t come up with this stuff, and that goes all the way back to Ford. Nuggets of wisdom, not super cohesive, but fun to skim through!
This is a helpful book but this is just one of many many books, and implementation attempts one needs to do to really understand its key concepts and to communicate it in a company that has no clue about it nor inclination to learn or get around to reading much less studying the many other books about the matter.
Read this book and many others that help form your understanding and feel terribly alone and powerless to implement it, as implementation means making mistakes, painfully slow gains, and while being surrounded by charlatans that sell panacea and those with their best interests against the implementer.
In this book Taiichi Ohno, one of Toyota’s famous innovators, discusses the Toyota Production System (TPS) that he developed.
While Toyota tries to eliminate workers from its payroll in order to achieve profits, they seek to respect the workers they do employ by making them responsible for their quality and by organizing processes so that no one is just watching a machine.Though this is the Toyota production system, the applicability of the concept for any type of business is emphasized throughout the book (e.g. p.9).
The "Toyota Production Method" is Taiichi Ohno's 1978 description of the Toyota production system, it's motivations and it's philosophical underpinnings.
Father of the lean production methods of modern manufacturing and, more recently, agile programming methodologies it is a boom worth reading for a historical perspective and some insights lost in later development.
The book packed a large number of concepts that changed the shape of manufacturing worldwide in a very small space.
Of course, a newer book like The Toyota Way by Jeffrey Liker probably handles the topic more thoroughly, but it is nice to read a book from one of the inventors so that you can see the thinking and perspective from the ground up.This is the type of book that I will read over and over.
It enables you to get grounded in the grass roots of the Lean Manufacturing movement.
It gives you an important perspective and enables you to understand its original intent.
Taiichi Ohno tells us how he revamped Toyota's (and thus everyone else's) auto manufacturing processes.
This multi-decade project required altering the company's (and its suppliers') fundamental approach to production through a succession of process changes that would seem impossible for any large, labor-intensive companies to accept.
I've never read about manufacturing before, and it just amazes me how teeny tiny process changes can create conditions that motivate workers to find clever ways to reduce inefficiency.
Ohno's patience is also something to wonder at: He had a clear vision for changing auto manufacturing, but he knew because of the nature of workforces and large organizations, it would take many years to make it a reality.
For anyone interested in the Toyota Production System (TPS, often called "Lean Manufacturing," or simply "Lean" in the US), this is a must-read.
This book is not like Jeffery Liker's "The Toyota Way." This is a personal account given by one the production system's architects, Taiichi Ohno.
While books such as Liker's "Toyota Way" may give insight from a managerial perspective, Ohno presents his story (and it does read much like a narrative) in a historical frame.
Through reading this, one sees that the Toyota Production System isn't just another flavor of the month, nor is it simply a collection of buzzwords (such as Kaizen, 5-S, Just-in-Time).
There's nothing wrong with the Toyota production system (TPS), I think. But if this book were the "standard work on the TPS", as the advertorial blurb proclaims, then one couldn't get very far with this system. Heavily redundant, randomly jumping, overly colloquial. Mr. Ohno has merits for his role in developing the TPS, and it is probably OK to listen to this old man talk about his life's work for a while, but he's definitely not a gifted writer. Pity to see an interesting topic to be treated so poorly.
Understanding TPS, and the subsequent evolution into lean manufacturing, is critical to any business leader. This work is seminal in the field, and should be considered compulsory reading. I'd also recommend that anyone interested in the history of TPS also read "The Machine that Changed the World".My only criticism of this book, and the only reason it doesn't get 5 stars, is that it doesn't provide a lot of depth, nor much in the way of practical advice, on lean manufacturing. Although, in the books defense, that's not what it is trying to do.
Right from the horse's mouth!Written in a crisp, clear and concise manner, this book unveils the making of TPS. I found the concepts extremely relevant and common sense approach to the context set in the beginning of the book. While the management case studies do bring some insights, this book is a step ahead in the right direction. A must read only if one is an operation enthusiast.
This is a very enlightening work by the inventor of lean manufacturing, Taiichi Ohno. If you are interested in getting started in the Lean methodologies then you should read this book. Taiichi Ohno makes us understand why Toyota Production System is what it is. He shares with us his experience introducing several concepts to be more productive. It's a good read.
I read this for work and found it interesting enough. It's an easy read, though some sections are more technical and others too mundane. I work at a nonprofit, but the principles in the book can be applied, as well as any other workplace.
A must read for those studying production planning and control. Many of the concepts are explained in a very lucid manner. It could be a very useful addition to the usual operations management textbooks.
Anyone that is seeking more to learn about Lean or the Toyota Production System should check out this book. The founder of TPS talked about his own learning journey and I believe gives great insights into anyone that wants to live Lean, rather than just copy the motions.
The translation seems ropy and the book as a whole lacks cohesion, but there are enough gems in here to make it well worth a read. Fascinating to read about the origins of many of the principles we use in the team I develop software in.
