https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119829.The_Sunne_in_Splendour
SUNNE traces the life of Richard III, breaking it into three sections of this 800+ page novel:  PART ONE  sheds light on that confusing Historical time known as the Wars of the Roses (back in the day I never "got it" until I read this piece).
Edward IV keeps them all from killing each other and also puts up with more Lancastrian attempts to seize the throne, as well as an eventual civil war with his Neville cousins, and his very antagonist brother, George, Duke of Clarence.
I’m sure that any reader who would pick up this mighty tome, that chronicles the life of Richard III, would know the ending that history dictates.
The novel starts with a seven year old Richard and ends with his defeat at the field of Bosworth; it is an entire chronicle of his life.
Richard admires his brother; he looks up to him and respects him .He is fiercely loyal to him unlike George, the middle York brother, who is jealous of Edward being the first son.
It is obvious that a novel chronicling his life must end at the field of Bosworth.
After reading various accounts of him and his contemporaries, I've realised that history, based on Tudor propaganda, could have very badly betrayed him.
In a 900 page book, the first third read like an increasingly interesting history lesson, but then the more personal story-telling side kicked in and it became engrossing.
The author has clearly done an amazing amount of detailed research into Richard's life.
She brings Richard to life so vividly, and I was moved by his death, I mourned him.
This is the best historical fiction book I've read to date; a fascinating, detailed and thought-provoking look at one of Englands most controversial men.

The story evolves around Edward IV and Richard III (and lots of other characters) with a plot so rich, you could be forgiven in thinking that it is pure fiction.
With a novel this lengthy, you really need a hearty liking of Tudor based stories.
I didn't realize that I had so enjoyed Richard III's story until the last 50 pages or so, when I found I had deliberately slowed my reading because I simply did not want to come to the end.
Read Ms Penman's novel and learn of a fact based contrasting view of this much pilloried monarch.
I have hesitated in writing this review for quite a while because I'm not sure I can do it justice.Born into an England ripped apart by the bloody War of the Roses, Richard was in awe of his older brother Edward.
And how she brings Richard III to life in a way that is totally convincing and very human.The book follows Richard from a young age when he is still in the shadow of his brother till the powerful Earl he becomes under Edward IV reign and finally his rise to throne and his death.
But, this book was written by a well-known English historian, and the fiction only supplements the history.
That's what makes it exciting to read: if it's honest historical fiction written by a qualified historian, then the facts you read are real.The story is about England's War of the Roses.
Until I read this book, I didn't even know that there's a controversy about Richard III.
So, I'll say you should read it if you want a good story, and don't mind some English history with it.
A GR friend just started reading this.
I read it many, many years ago and added it in 'bulk' when I first joined GR's without an adequate review.
When I'm asked the question 'what is your favorite book', without a moments hesitation, this is the novel that springs off my lips.
The Sunne in Slpendour began my love affair with historical fiction and it is as close to a perfect novel as can be written.
If you have not had the pleasure of reading this, then you are really depriving yourself of one of the best literary journeys you can take.
I cannot give a novel a higher recommendation.
This was a wonderful story.
Although I was prepared to keep an open mind as to my previous opinions on Richard III (from reading Alison Weir's Princes in the Tower), I was sure I would still come out believing that Richard did the kids.
Now I am not so convinced, I am prepared to believe he was a good man.
This book also covers much about Edward the IV, Richard's brother.
All in all a very good history lesson.
The book was well written, the story line kept me interested through all 900 + pages and I will definitely read more from this author.
Book One deals with the violent conflict between Marguerite of Anjou (Henry VI’s queen) and Richard of York who tries to make a claim for the throne due to Henry VI’s mental infirmity, how Richard’s son Edward eventually ascends the throne with the help of the Kingmaker Richard Neville of Warwick, marries the avaricious and conniving Elizabeth Woodville, and later, caught between his wife’s power grabbing demands and those of Warwick, goes into a vehement showdown with the latter.
Whilst unique itself since it read like a nonfictional account of a fictionalized real life events, all the shifting of one character's thoughts to another in the same sentence , let alone the same chapter, felt lazy and ultimately irritating.
However, based on this book Cersei Lannister is Elizabeth Woodvile, by giving us the character's viewpoint chapters Martin gave us a lot and by writing from the history's POV Penman took a lot from us.
I point this out and I detest the Tudors.I think Cecily Neville, Duchess of York was my favorite character in this book.
In the play, he satisfies his all-consuming ambition by: 1.Murdering King Henry VI and murdering Edward of Lancaster2.Contriving the death of his brother Clarence3.Killing William, Lord Hastings4.And, most famously, the disposing of his two child nephews in the Tower of London.5.Not content with all this, Shakespeare also has Richard poisoning his wife in order to marry his niece.6.Physically, we are presented with a Richard, ‘Deform’d, unfinish’d…’, a twisted hunchback with a shriveled arm, reflecting a profoundly evil characterPenman’s detailed historical research permitted her not only to rescue King Richard III’s reputation from what Tudors’ historians first then Shakespeare did of it, but also to tranform the vilified king into a modern romantic hero.
First, a little story - by the books I recently read, it may be obvious that I'm all over medieval England and War of the Roses especially. Funnily enough, I was hardly aware of the subject until March the 3rd, 2012, when I've read a childhood favorite  . It takes place during the war and mentions the completely awesome, if a bit of a prick, Duke of Gloucester and the House of York. Obviously, I wanted to know more and this place:http://www.historicalnovels.info/Wars-of-the-Roses.htmlwas very he
Obviously, I wanted to know more and this place:http://www.historicalnovels.info/Wars-of-the-Roses.htmlwas very helpful and everywhere I loked on the net, I came across one book: "The Sunne in Splendour".It says on the cover that it is the story of Richard III but it is so much more than that.
History has not dealt kindly with Richard - Tudor propaganda has dealt him a cruel blow by making him out to be a deformed and evil man who was able to put his nephews to death and contemplate bedding his niece while his beloved wife lay close to death.In this story, we follow the fortunes of the Yorkists from Richard's early life when Edward moved to claim the throne from Harry of Lancaster.
The last few hundred pages were heartbreaking as Buckingham sought to claim the crown for himself, and Richard was forced to experience the death of his nephews at someone else's command, then the illness and death of both his son and wife.
From the very first pages into this book, I found myself liking the young Richard, and I wondered, "How in the heck can this be the same boy who will grow up to murder his own nephews?" A fiercely loyal and earnest lad, he is the youngest of his family, small, dark and intense and very different from his three tall and fair brothers.
Sharon Penman's explanation of the princes' disappearance and Richard's strange silence is as good and plausible as others.
The Wars of the Roses is a new territory for me, and having invested in 12th-13th century Plantagenet and Anglo-Saxon histories for so long, I admit I was a little hesitant about breaking into an unfamiliar historical era.
And only while reading this book did I also belatedly realize that it was actually Richard III I was seeing on the news a few years back when the discovery of a medieval king’s skeleton under a car park was made public.
This is an excellent historical novel. It is pretty much the Wars of the Roses in a nutshell, and is a very plausible account of how it all may have happened. The novel is meticulously researched and crafted with care. Whilst familiar with the history, the novel made me aware of how tragic Richard III's life was.
She shows that the people from north loved him dearly, however, the people from London knew little of him, therefore they were fast to believe every vile rumour Tudor made about Richard.
(hide spoiler)] Her theory is something I could believe because Richard killing the boys makes very little sense to me (I'm not saying he didn't have anything to gain from this, but I don't think he would have killed him so early during his reign, when the support of his people was so unsure, he would have waited more time before doing so.) .
I love Penman's writing, I'll admit that she made me cry (something few books - probably one or two - succeeded in doing so) when Ned, the son of Anne Neville and Richard III, died.
He is far from perfect he has flaws and is not good at choosing whom to trust, but he loves and thus he suffers and is damaged.It's a great read because it's not easy to keep you interested in a book this long and knowing how everything is going to end.
I didn't want it to finish, I was about to close the book before getting to the end not only because I could see it coming but because I knew this time it was going to hurt bad.For everybody, but specially for Richard-haters
The discovery of his bones in recent times lead to much interest among all those who consider him innocent of the murder of his two young nephews while imprisoned in the Tower of London and of course a similar amount of interest from among those who consider him a ruthless and evil murderer.
Sharon Kay Penman is well known by fans of the historical novel as her research is always meticulous but she always weaves a fascinating fictional story around the facts.
I have read this book a few times and recently did so again.
If Richard III has been so vilified by history then cannot the same be said of the Woodville family?
Trying to put this aside for the moment, I will say that Ms. Penman has done her research into the various events that occur during this turbulent period of English history and for the most part has done an excellent job in sticking to the timeline, except for where mentioned in her author's note.
This is absolutely true for this novel as well, it's just the author's overlying appraisal of the history that I take issue with.
We had the vain Bad Queen, stupid and plotting while trying new jewels, her evil son, the stupid brute out to draw blood, her stupid minion, the poor Anthony Woodville from whom, when I read about him, I've heard only good most of the time...
I would have forgiven it had Penman been an overall bad author, had she been not good with evil characters, not in her element...
And I don't like it.When I read about characters in a fiction, be they on the good or bad side, I like to be given the choice of whether I pity them, like them, forgive them, or hate them.
As for Richard III, I had no opinion about him before reading this book, but Penman has turned me into a partisan--which is, I'm sure, exactly what she intended.
There aren't any evil villains (although there are characters you'll dislike) and there aren't really any heroes (even though Penman really likes Richard), but there are a lot of interesting and complicated people, who experience a lot of interesting and often tragic events.
On a more mundane note, I want to commend Penman and/or her publisher for including a couple of things that greatly enhanced my reading experience: one, a map of Great Britain and northern France with all relevant locations marked; and two, a family tree as of 1459.
Sharon Kay Penman's book traces the story of Edward IV and Richard III and those surrounding them.
The story of Edward IV's rise to king as his family survives sanguinary reverses; his luck in war, and his flight to escape doom; his complex family life with the Woodvilles; his relationship with brothers Richard (to succeed him as Richard III) and George (himself a turncoat on more than one occasion); Richard's relationship with his wife Anne; the dynamic and poisonous politics of England after Richard captured the throne from Edward IV's son (an intriguing tale here, to explain Richard's motives beyond just the possibility of becoming king).
I bought this book after reading a selection from it on my Amazon Kindle.
One of the places where Penman does a bit of dodging has to do with the death of George, Duke of Clarence.
Penman only has the priest suggest to Clarence that drowning is said to be an easy death.
As Kendall says about the Shakespeare's play:"What a tribute this is to art; what a misfortune this is for history."I am reading this book again to get the taste of a poorly written and researched effort I have just finished out of my mind.
This is a superb historical novel set during the War of the Roses and the aftermath, ending with the reign and death of Richard III.Both the golden Edward IV and Richard himself come alive in all their human frailties and excellencies, and Penman never fights shy of dealing with the complexities of political power: getting it, maintaining it, and the impact it has on the human life and soul.A perfect lesson in how to write a historical novel that doesn't skim over the history and yet makes it alive and relevant and about real people.
No one writes historical fiction like Sharon Kay Penman.
Whereas, Mantel presents a more plausible rehabilitation of the often vilified Thomas Cromwell in her two novels of the early Tudor court, Penman attempts to go much farther with Richard III.
However, with the death by disease of his son and heir and his queen in 1484-85, Richard was seeking marriage with Edward IV’s eldest daughter (Elizabeth) as was Henry Tudor in his claim to the throne despite her alleged bastard status.
Penman’s whitewash of Richard III is both entertaining and plausible up to a point, and it certainly refutes the total vilification presented by Shakespeare and other Tudor sympathizers.
The book follows life of Richard of Gloucester from the age of seven,his rise to throne (King Richard III) until his death through treachery at The Battle of Bosworth.The author has clearly done an amazing research into Richard's life and she brings Richard III into life.
She is realy good in build up of conflict and conclusions, also good in historical research and details and let us not forget her love stories are pretty good.I also love her notes at the end of the book.P.S. I wonder if scientists can make Richard's DNA comparable to the bones found in the Tower
Yes, there's a lot of history and a lot of people with multiple names to keep track of but I don't know that I've read another book where the author was so generous in keeping them all straight for the reader.
I confess that I always read with paper and pen in hand so I can keep track of 'whose who', and I did with this book as well, but Penman offers so many opportunities to clear up any confusion that I found I referred to my notes on 'whose who' very little.
