https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11507059-ten-little-caterpillars
I think Chicka Chicka Boom Boom is fabulous.
I think Ten Little Caterpillars is good.
3 stars for the text - there's nothing wrong with it and I would happily read it to a child, but it seemed a little blah and didn't stick with me at all.
So it's a perfectly good picture book that should belong in public libraries and in homes; it just won't stick with me as one of my personal favorites.(Note: I received a free advance reading copy of this book from the publisher at an American Library Association Annual Conference.
Very useful in a discussion with the kids about nature.That said, Ten Little Caterpillars is rather gruesome, if realistic, in Martin sending each caterpillar on its way into safety or danger with that last page spread an evolution.Ehlert's graphics are a fabulously colorful mix of awkward and realistic lines and is consistent with this in its compositions.
Color images directly on paper or let the really young ones color the paper and the older ones cut them into shapes to create flowers and bugs and butterflies...fun!The StoryTen little caterpillars are out and about in our big, wide world, discovering the joys and dangers.
Ten Little Caterpillars by Bill Martin Jr., illustrated by Lois Ehlert, is another winning collaboration, focusing on caterpillars, counting, and nature.
Some of my favorite images include the second caterpillar among the flowers, the third caterpillar on the cabbage, the sixth caterpillar off to school, the doomed seventh caterpillar on the thistle, and ninth caterpillar about to meet a sea bass.Ten Little Caterpillars is a nice introduction into nature for young readers and listeners.
For ages 3 to 8, butterflies, animals, counting, insects, gardens, science, vocabulary, art, and fans of Bill Martin Jr. and Lois Ehlert.
Title / Author / Publication Date: Ten Little Caterpillars/Bill Martin Jr./2011Genre: Fiction, Rhyming Story, Picture BookFormat: HardcoverPlot summary: Illustrations and rhyming text follow ten caterpillars as one wriggles up a flower stem, another sails across a garden pool, and one reaches an apple leaf, where something amazing happens.Considerations or precautions for readers advisory: A great book to teach children about different caterpillar species. Review citation: Walkins, L. L. (2011). Ten Little Caterpillars. School Library Journal, 57(8), 91. Section source used to find the material: Children's Core Collection, Most Highly RecommendedRecommended age: 4 and up
Kids will love this book.
Who doesn't love a good book about caterpillars?
I am a big fan of books that told in story form, but have lots of nonfiction laced in.
On each page of this book you have a caterpillar in a beautiful setting.
On each page lots of things have labels telling the kids what they are: other insects, fruit, plants.
The end of the book is my favorite.
The caterpillars are shown as caterpillars, underneath it says what they eat, and underneath that is a picture of what that particular caterpillar will look like as a butterfly.
My kids love finding and counting the caterpillars. Plus, they enjoy looking at them all at the end of the book where they show both the caterpillar and then the butterfly it becomes. Very informative!
Ten caterpillars are shown on the cover. The first page of the story begins with the first caterpillar crawling into a flower garden. It goes on from there; some caterpillars getting eaten by critters, some are safe eating melons and leaves. the tenth caterpillar is able to climb an apple tree and hang on, becoming a chrysalis and then emerging as a butterfly. Each caterpillar is represented in the back of the book along with its corresponding butterfly or moth.Another beautiful winner from the Martin/Ehlert collaboration team!
The illustrations are so bright and vivid the pop out whenever you turn the page! This was an easy counting story explaining what "10 Little Caterpillars" were up too. I appreciated that inside the illustrations were little captions of each object. For example, there was a picture of a cardinal and below the picture, there was a small caption stating "Cardinal." That helps a child reading the book themselves and also provides a teaching tool for parents and educators that are reading this story out loud.
A counting book with caterpillars. If you little one enjoys butterflies, bug, or counting this worth checking out. Also great for a butterfly life cycle lesson with young children. Pair with The Very Hungry Caterpillar.
Ten Little Caterpillars. Ten different paths. Some good. Some not so good. And of course a butterfly appearance. Lively way to learn about different plants and insects. Bright bold pictures will be a hit with the kids. A good short, story. Perfect for that "one more story please" plea.
Informative story of ten types of different caterpillars and the environment they dwell, and how they survive and turn into Butterflies, and Moths. Several species of plants, and trees are identified in the book also.
Great counting book with many terms.
All the heart eyes for this book! Wonderful rhyming/counting book with science tie in. Excellence in accuracy. Please use to offset misinformation in Very Hungry Caterpillar!
Great picture book that teaches about nature and caterpillars/butterflies. I like how each page has a different caterpillar and then a small amount of information about each one at the end.
Everything in the illustration is labeled, which is great for helping kids identify different objects and learn words.
Feels like a counting version of The Very Hungry Caterpillar, espeically since the art is so much in the style of Eric Carle.
It tries so hard to be like The Hungry Caterpillar and just leaves you wanting, the last few pages are the best parts because they actually teach you something.
This is one that I could see working for multiple ages of children
My daughter loved this book.
A great bug storytime book. Counts from 1 to 10 using caterpillars. The illustrations were bright and bold.
I definitely enjoyed this one more than the kiddos, but it was a great counting book nonetheless!
I liked how it showed both the caterpillar and butterfly at the end.
I like this one a lot, especially the different caterpillar types. I like it more for a solo read than storytime.
The collages are gorgeous, and the rhyming rhythm works well. I especially like the descriptions of each caterpillar and the butterfly it becomes.
Nice merging of counting with caterpillars-to-butterflies and all kinds of flora, depicted with Lois Ehlert's magnificent mixed-media illustrations.
I can't believe I've never read this before. During our "counting" toddler storytime, this was one of the favorites. Kids counted along with me, and at the end they enjoyed seeing illustrations of what each of the caterpillars turned into. It had a nice scientific element to it that I think a lot of picture books lack.
Love the illustrations and it is a cute story made to be shared. I know I would use this in my future classroom to have kid's see how to count.
Ten Little Caterpillars, by Bill Martin, Jr., was a disappointing affair. The whole undertaking just feels completely derivative of Eric Carle's The Very Hungry Caterpillar, only here, there are some darker elements (caterpillars drowning and getting eaten) before we get to the butterfly. The art is really cool, even if it is too reminiscent of Carle's work, and I like that the plants and animals are all labeled. That was a nice touch. On the whole, though, this one just comes off as a retread of something we've all seen before.
a. Summary: The story begins and flows with each page being a different number; 1,2,3, etc. caterpillar’s, and we now we started with 10. Each goes onto a different leaf, flower, vegetable or fruit vine, or garden pool. Then one caterpillar gets taken to school, then they start to meet other animals that they were afraid of (predators). Each caterpillar was going to a different place where they belong and live in the real world. Then once the tenth caterpillar came around and climbed up an apple
b.	Review: This story was clearly and done very well as a very informative children’s book.
This tells us that the story is probably going to be well rounded the information it’ll portray I believe.
The negative space is white behind/surrounding the colorful illustrations of heart leaf and caterpillars eating on the front and a big caterpillar climbing flowers on the back (same illustration on page open page 2).
The interplay of text and illustration is symmetrical because the illustrations portray what the story is telling and visa versa.
All the text was across the top and illustrations underneath taking up most of the pages (open book style).
I saw the cover of this book and I immediately thought of Eric Carle.
I was only slightly surprised to see Bill Martin Jr., instead, as I know that he and Mr. Carle collaborated on a few stories.
And as the book description reminds me, they collaborated on the classic tale Chicka Chicka Boom Boom, too.
This is a fairly typical counting book for young children.
With a rhythmic and rhyming narrative and colorful illustrations, it will appeal to young children.
It's a small element of information that parents can use to educate children (or ignore, especially if they are just babies.)
