https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100692.The_Game_Players_of_Titan
Checklist of common PKD novel elements present in Game Players of Titan:drug use – check!mental illness – check!flying cars – check!pre-cogs – check!con-apts – check!vid-phones – check!homeopapes – check!mass hallucinations – check!paranoia – check!psionic abilities – check!telepathic aliens – check!and of course,simulacra – check!!First published in 1963, one noticeable omission from the above list is any deep theological undertones.
In this novel, Phil describes a far future Earth where we have been defeated by a race of telepathic slugs from Titan.
Amongst the wreckage of our lost civilization is the need to play a board game (somewhat resembling Life) to trade property and wives.Wildly fantastic, subtly absurdist and altogether fun for PKD fans, Game Players of Titan is one of his better offerings.
Dick's 1962 novel The Game-Players of Titan, we're two hundred years into the future, the people are the entire human race and humans have anything but power – in the aftermath of Hinkle radiation and losing a war with the Titanians aka vugs from Planet Titan, the human population has been decimated, only a handful of couples can have kids and those vugs hold the real power.
What you really need, Pete, is some luck - either in yourself or in a new Game playing partner.
It's Pete and his group versus the vug master game players on Titan.
The first time I read this was years ago and I remember thinking how wild it was to have so many of PKD's normal theme soup all in one place.
simulacra, psi, suicide, drugs, intrigue, murder, aliens, altered realities, dark fate for humanity, etc...
but I didn't remember this novel being so funny.I mean, aside from the fact it's not quite as good as the Player of Games by Iain M.
I can see Banks sitting down to write and think, how could I improve upon this novel.
But then PKD had all the rest and murder, memory alteration, prolonged life, and genocide.It all boils down to execution.
Dick, The Game-Players of TitanBooks seem to float into my life in pairs, like aces, kings, or quite often twos.
I guess I could count "The Game-Players of Titan" as my second gambling novel in a month.
Dick uses the basics of a game of chance to introduce the idea of a group of people on Earth who gamble not for small stakes, but for cities and counties.
I usually walk away from a Dick novel amazed in the same way I'm amazed at Darwin.
Dick seems naturally talented at looking at the world from a slightly warped perspective.
For example, the car that Joe Schilling, Pete's best friend (a bearded manager of a classical music store, as Phil had been in the early '50s, and a clear stand-in here for the author), drives, is a riot, responding to its owner's commands with comments such as "Up yours." The book has a typically large cast (47 named characters, including the 16 in Pete's Pretty Blue Fox game-playing group); some human, some vugs, and many with ESP-type abilities.
"Anyhow, Pete Garden, you were psychotic and drunk and on amphetamines and hallucinating, but basically you perceived the reality that confronts us..."PKD must have dreamed that any one of his five wives or several girlfriends would one day sit across the breakfast table and speak those words to him.
So, I think that is another "yes" for hallucinating.In Game Players of Titan, earth has been dealt a double blow.
What he discovers are conspiracies within conspiracies, Vug infiltration of his closest friends, and an offer to play the ultimate game to decide the fate of the earth.Game Players of Titan is PKD really hitting his stride.

This is the ninth book I have read by him.
I am reading his books roughly in the order he published them though I have skipped a few.
In this one, Earth is ruled by an alien race that presents as amorphous blobs.
The remaining adults are obsessed with Bluff, a game in which they gamble for cities and spouses, while drinking heavily.It is funny in a black humor way.
The set piece is a game of Bluff on the alien planet Titan, with the two races competing for Earth.Read it at your own risk!
Mankind finds a way to win a decisive victory against the Vugs, but at the cost of infertility throughout the majority of those few humans who survive the conflict.
If the Vug-Human police alliance finds any psi’c playing Bluff, they’re banned for life.
Bluff is the drug they use to control mankind.Philip K Dick was a true innovator and seer of the future.
Call your opponent’s bluff at your peril - they could be leading you down a debt-painted garden path.In true Philip K Dick fashion, the world is treated like a parallel world.
Questo autore mi da l'impressione che ne scriva uno buono e tre frettolosamente perché doveva saldare i conti alla fine del mese (un po' come fa Woody Allen con i film).
I temi cardine dell'autore sono sempre là in bella posta: droga, percezione della realtà, complottismo a gogò e, questa volta, anche una bella puntata nel mondo delle relazioni di coppia (che non fu tanto tenero con il nostro).
Sappiate che l'intreccio è come al solito pirotecnico, i colpi di scena non mancano ed i personaggi sono delineati con sufficiente profondità.
I've only read one other novel by Philip K.
Dick, The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch, but based on these two novels, I'm not really that interested in his writing.
The book has too many characters, all of whom are pretty one-dimensional, and it switches perspectives from character to character too often.
The book does present several intriguing ideas, like the post-apocalyptic world with a tiny population, the game of "Bluff" itself, and the interactions between the telepaths and the game-players, as well as the interactions between the vugs and the humans.
But there are too many ideas in the book, and none of it really comes together.
It's interesting how comprehensive a novel Gameplayers is - it comprises so many of the bizarre, unique elements characteristic of the PKD classics. Gameplayers is not a particularly amazing novel or a favorite, but it is bizarre and exceptionally memorable - and certainly a quick, worthwhile read.
7/10
Different. Okay.
Dick si tu opäť strieda roviny bytia častejšie ako ja nohavičky
Mult mai buna decat multe carti premiate si laudate in ultii ani.
For their amusement, they allow human landowners (“Bindmen”) to play a game called Bluff, which is much like Monopoly where the stakes are real pieces of property on the ruined Earth.
Dick’s crazy and original ideas, and plenty of plot twists.I was so intrigued by the premise of The Game-Players of Titan and I thought it was a ripping fun read until Dick eventually goes off (like I knew he would) on his paranoid delusional I-have-no-idea-what-the-heck-is-going-on-here binge.
The Game-Players of Titan has a great premise and is especially imaginative, but eventually devolves, as so many Philip K.
3.5/5Publicada originalmente en 1963, escrita entre medias de "El hombre en el castillo" (1962), y las remarcables "Los tres enigmas de palmer Eldritch" y "Tiempo de Marte" (ambas en 1964), esta novela da cuenta de buena parte de los temas más recurrentes en el autor.
Con un habitual envoltorio de fantaciencia, en la trama van a tener un papel destacado, por supuesto, el uso y abuso de drogas como medio para obtener otros fines o alterar la percepción de la realidad, pero también la obsesión de Dick por el estamento matrimonial y sus «complicaciones», la suplantación de identidades o la presencia palpable de poderes mentales como la telepatía o la precognición.
What's interesting about this book is that it starts off rather boring.
Then a murder happens and it gets interesting.
Not too long after it gets interesting, it gets quite crazy.
So crazy that, in many spots, I had no idea what was going on.
But, it's PKD, so, a good reader knows to stick with it and Phil will bring everything together at the conclusion of the book.
I'd give this a higher rating but it took so long to get going and the crazy parts were just a bit too crazy.
After the first few pages, I was like, hmm is this one slight? Well, of course, it's not because Philip K. Dick always builds complex stories in his scifi page-turners and this one goes from a Chandleresque dystopian story incorporating infertility issues and slug-like alien invaders to a battle of psychics of all stripes: telekinetics, mindreaders, and pre-cogs. With its alcoholic antihero and superpowered antiheroine, "The Game-Players of Titan" is interplanetary, interspecies noir.
What a crazy crazy book. Packed full of PKD's eccentric and paranoid ideas, it's a page-turner. But as is the problem with most of his longer writings, this one too tends to lose its way after a while. The lines between reality and delusion seem to be non-existent; in fact, parts of the book exist in the spaces between those lines. However, that's a problem that can be overlooked, considering how utterly bizarre and inspired the premise is.
В отличие от предыдущих произведений Дика «Игроки» показались просто каким-то бредом обкуренного: мало того, что повествование перепрыгивало с одного момента на другой так, что с трудом вообще улавливалось, о чем идёт речь, так и сам стиль письма какой-то «вязкий». Не понравилась мне эта книга, а жаль, ибо после «Человека в высоком замке» я возлагала большие надежды на «Игроков», но увы;(
Unsurprisingly bizarre. Perhaps this is fundamental reality, beneath the conscious layer of the psyche; maybe this is the way we really are. They're showing us this, killing us with the truth about ourselves. Their telepathic faculty and their ability to mold and reform minds, to infuse them; she retreated from the thought.
ნამდვილად არ არის დიკის საუკეთესო ნაწარმოები, სხვისთვის შეიძლება არც ყოფილიყო ურიგო, მაგრამ დიკის სხვა შედევრებთან ვერც მივა. თუმცა არის რამდენიმე საინტერესო იდეა და 2-3 საინტერესო ადგილი, რომლებმაც მოიტანა - მაგრამ მოიტანა სულ ცოტათი.თუმცა, სემიჩკის პონტში მაინც არ იყო ურიგო.
Losing his favorite place, Berkeley, and a wife that loves him, Freya, his luck seems to be at rock bottom.Add to that the fact that Sid Luckman, the most successful Bindman of all, owner of most of the east coast, father of three children, has acquired Berkeley and is coming over to the west to win more territory, well, it's not surprising that Pete is feeling suicidal.He meets a telepathic woman, Patricia Gaines, who intrigues him.
Mah...Un futuro decisamente tecnologico, ma anche, in qualche modo, antico.è tecnologico in quanto le tecnologie presenti sono fortemente avanzate: macchine volanti, carta coniglia (basta morderla per sapere se si è incinta), e tutti gli apparecchi sono dotati dell'effetto rushmore e sembrano in qualche modo intelligenti.Ma è anche antico, forse perchè i pochi abitanti hanno più di cent'anni (grazie a un operazione che asporta la ghiandola che causa l'invecchiamento), ma non solo per questo..è per la mentalità che aleggia in tutto il romanzo, la volontà di affidare il proprio destino ad un gioco per aumentare la probabilità di avere "fortuna" e di ripopolare la terra che mi lascia sgomenta.Un gioco che ricorda tanto Monopoli, ma le cui regole non vengono ben specificate..
A very enjoyable story. The over-all idea was more what I had expected "Solar Lottery" to be. It seemed to me, that the set up didn't completely fit how and to where the story went and it bogged a little in the middle but the story really picked up during the last third and end part. Overall, it was good fun pulp written only the way PKD could.
Mind-bending and awesome. With everything you expect from a Philip K Dick novel: A setting and plot which shifts and dissolves, characters with shifting memories and powers of perception, and basically a book which goes from very cool to increasingly challenging and crazy. No point in discussing whether this is among his best, they are all great.
Definitely not my favorite Philip K. Dick book but, as always, he paints a very vivid picture of his future society and provides lots of fun stuff like sentient cars/appliances with major attitudes. It did leave an impact on my life in that it's given me a new user name for online activities: PrettyBlueFox, stolen from the name of the main characters' gaming syndicate.
Not one of my favorite PKD offerings out there.For this one, it feels like he tried to jam too many concepts into a too small novel.You've got a post-apocalyptic setting, aliens, hallucinations, impersonations, telekinesis, precognition, to name but a few, and the author quickly loses control of all these.
