https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25673834-trouble-on-the-thames
This novel is not only a great example of Golden Age writing, but is an exciting and enjoyable read with a good cast of characters and lots of plot twists.We meet the hero of this novel, Lieutenant-Commander Owen Bradwell, after he has visited a specialist in Harley Street.
Sally’s mission and Owen’s collide and they end by teaming up to try to uncover a spy ring.This novel is not only an interesting spy story but has a great deal of side stories and characters to help flesh out the storyline; as well as a good sense of the historical period.
I loved this book and I am so glad Poisoned Pen Press is reissuing this novel.
It was written in the "Golden Age of Crime Writing" and is set just before WWII in England.
It has a sense of fun to it and really time specific writing.
Afraid that his career is over he is sent over to a new secret department to do some spying.
They add such humor and love to this book that it becomes so entertaining.
I don't know if Bradwell is in other novels because I had not heard of this author but I hope Poisoned Pen Press will release all his books.
Sally had promised her mother, just before she died, that she would always look after her sister; and so she set off – in her sister’s place – to confront the blackmailer.Mark Craig was being blackmailed by the same man.
And so four people converged by the Thames.The blackmailer was stabbed.Owen was coshed.And Sally came to his rescue.That was just the beginning; and those are just the bare bones of the story.
He was one of those who thought that there would be a war and that Britain would lose, and so he was going to make sure he was on good terms with the Nazi victors.Everything works together very well.
I hadn’t heard of Victor Bridges before spotting Trouble on the Thames on the Netgalley site.
Although it’s not the greatest suspense type novel I have read – the tension wasn’t quite there for me – I would probably read more by Victor Bridges in the future.
Captain Greystoke tells Bradwell about one of his former colleagues, who killed himself, following an act of Treason.
The gang are holed up in a property on a little Island on Thames Ferry, close to Playford where Bradwell had been contemplating going for a little fishing.
I must confess I was quite unfamiliar with Victor Bridges before reading this story which was originally written in 1945.
This spy thriller was a quick read which contained a few twists and turns.
Most of the story was fast paced, however, there were some parts that moved a bit slow for me.
Also, one must keep in mind that this was written in the 1940's so parts could also be considered a little out dated by some readers.
If you are looking for a quick suspenseful read then I recommend picking this one up.
A classic spy thriller set in pre-war late 1930 's and written by the author at that time.
Owen Bradwell a distinguished and courageous naval officer fears his career is blighted by colour blindness but is offered a chance for a career change by checking up on an acquaintance who has been betraying state secrets to the Nazis.
His mission starts out as a regular surveillance operation, then bodies start to fall.
As it was written pre-war it appears to give an accurate of reflection of the syntax of the day which is frightfully good and admirable.
This apart it is a competent spy thriller.
This is part of a series of reprinted/republished older mysteries or spy stories, hoping to bring them to a new, modern audience.
I don't know if any editing was done, but because the last time I read an Ellery Queen mystery I found that the phrasing was...
quaint and very outdated (in other words, things we no longer say but were commonly said back then), so I wondered.
There wasn't anything here that surprised me in terms of language, and in terms of the plot, again, no surprises.
All good, if a tad quaint by John Le Carre standards.ARC provided by publisher.
This book is chiefly interesting for its insight into life in the thirties, rather than its plot, which is rather on the crude side, but is a type which was popular at that time.
It's somewhere between The Thirty Nine Steps and Paul Temple.
I was amazed when I found the young naval officer was only twenty-six.
Then you have to believe he suddenly went colour blind, but if you get on with the rest of the book I don't suppose that will bother you.
Quaint, but it doesn't make up for a so-so plot.
There really wasn't much here. An man gets inadvertently involved in spying on some Nazis in pre-WWII England, and links up (accidentally) with a pretty young woman along the way. Considering the circumstances, it is all much more pleasant and light than it deserves. Almost as much a romance as a "thriller".
This mystery, set in the late 1930s, was an enjoyable, quick read. The characters were engaging and I liked that everything ended satisfactorily. A good solid novel and I'll be sure to read more by Mr. Bridges.
Definitely one of the best from this period, due to the super-plucky and likeable heroine.
Although it was written after WWII, Trouble on the Thames is set before the onset of war.Becoming colorblind is a tragedy for naval officer Owen Bradwell.
When Sally arrives at his home, she finds the blackmailer dead, a knife in his back and Owen unconscious nearby.
He realizes at once he has no clue who he is.Trouble on the Thames may be a short novel, but it does contain all of the fun elements one enjoys in a spy story - amnesia, a beautiful and intelligent love interest, a kidnapping, shoot out, and more.
This is a classic British mystery, first published in 1945 and republished by Poisoned Pen Press.
The characters are all pretty much very good or very bad – not much gray happening here.
There are very few “bad” words, especially compared to more modern mysteries.The expressions of the time, the dated slang, was fun but there was so much of it, it did get a bit old.
I'm delighted that Poisoned Pen Press is going to be publishing more of these classics in the U.S.I was given an uncorrected proof for review.
...punts and agent provocateurs!1930's pre World War II and Naval Lieutenant-Commander, Owen Bradwell, freshly returned from the China station, has just been diagnosed as colour blind.
A disorder apparently acquirable at a later stage of life given appropriate stimuli, and in this case, a writer's raison d'être for the commander having to resign his post.
I did feel like I'd fallen into The Thirty-Nine Steps or Foyle's War. Owen Bradwell's belief in his sidelined new life is given a certain cachet.
"Trouble on the Thames", by Victor Bridges, is a reissued novel in the British Library Spy Classics series.
He's to become a security agent and try to track what a suspected Nazi spy ring is up to in London and out in a suburban area along the Thames.Victor Bridges has written a spy mystery, with a heavy touch of almost immature romance as Owen Bradwell finds love along with the spy ring.
I've read quite a few of British Library Spy Classics in the past few months, and they all seem to have as much "personal" as well as "professional" storylines.
"Trouble on the Thames" is a spy thriller set in the 1930's in England, and it was written in 1945.
The story was well-written and has elements that give it an enduring appeal, so I was surprised it hadn't been reprinted more often.While Owen is our main viewpoint character, we also follow several bad-guy characters.
Each character had their own plans and motives, and this created twists just when you think things might be wrapping up.
The characters were engaging and came across as real people, and the setting was vividly described.
This brought the story to life in my imagination.
A relatively unknown thriller that rocks along at a fast moving pace reminiscent of the John Buchan books.The book features a former naval officer who returns to England in the 1930s believing his career is over because he has become colour-blind.
Written in 1945 by prolific author of crime and thriller novels, Victor Bridge this relatively unknown thriller rocks along at a fast moving pace reminiscent of the John Buchan books.
Although somewhat dated in its delivery it does capture a sense of time and place from a lost era and after reading this I’ll be looking into his some 40 odd other novels.
The Times Owen Bradwell is a courageous naval officer who returns to England in the 1930s. A former acquaintance of Bradwell's has been trapped into betraying his country's secrets by a Nazi agent so Bradwell is sent to spy on the spy. He travels down the Thames on a surveillance trip under cover of a fishing weekend. Bradwell finds himself in the company of a dead man, and a pretty young interior decorator called Sally. Will Bradwell find love with Sally? Will Bradwell bring the villains to justice?
As a rule I don't enjoy spy novels but this is well (and clearly) written and the characters are engaging and interesting. This is a republished part of Poison Pen Press Classics spy series written roughly half a century ago about Nazi agents in England just prior to the beginning of World War 2 There is also a secondary love story plot as the hero, Owen Bradwell, has amnesia after being knocked on the head and is nursed back to health by an attractive young lady. A must read for British spy story lovers.
A fantastic pre-WWII thriller - rife with blackmail and spies and kidnappings and a mercifully short amnesiac interlude - that has a massive dollop of patriotism and propaganda mixed in with the action. Really cinematic; you feel as if you've already seen the Hitchcock adaption on TCM. Additionally exceptional for its inclusion of a love interest who has her own thing happening, even if the romance feels a bit sappy in the end. A great time.I received an ecopy from the publishers and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Naval officer Owen Bradwell knows that his sudden color blindness will mean the end of his naval career--and just when it looks as though England will be going to war against German again. But an unexpected chance to serve his country in Naval Intelligence brightens his prospects. Sally Deane just wants to keep her beautiful younger sister out of trouble and run her interior decoration business. Both find themselves in the same Thameside cottage with a murdered man. Maybe this is a little dated, but it's still an enjoyable read, with a wild card escaped convict for good measure.
Lt. Commander Owen Bradwell returns to London to have his sight checked because he has gone color blind. While in London an old friend assigns him a special mission, he is sent to spy on a spy. Excellent story line and interesting characters.***I received this book in exchange for an honest review***
England as it used to be when men had stiff upper lips, women were dutiful but attractively feisty on occasion, and "dagos" were wrong 'uns because of their bad blood. Buchan for the 40s (though less well written and with a bad line in gor blimey Cockney working class dialogue). Nevertheless fun and something of an insight into the war and pre-war period.
Simple Nazi spy thriller.
