https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43324.Are_You_Afraid_of_the_Dark_
Excellent! great writing: villains,money,power,murder and heroines plus lots of other devious stuff umm one of the good books to read of S.S..recommended to everyone (paperback!)
The dead share a single crucial link: each was connected to an all-powerful environmental think tank.
Two of the victims' widows—accomplished painter Diane Stevens and international supermodel Kelly Harris—may hold the key to their husbands' demise.
در منهتن، زیر پل، جسدی روی شنهای رودخانه، افتاده است.
در ابتدا به نظر میرسد، همه ی این رخدادها تصادفی هستند، اما پلیس متوجه میشود که این چهار، از قربانیان گروهی بین المللی هستند، در این بین «کلی هریس» و «دایان استیونس»، بیوه های جوان دو تن از قربانیان، در نیویورک باهم آشنا میشوند و ...
could also be called "the bitches did it again!" because really, how many times can someone say that in one novel?
it was like a scooby doo episode.
but seriously, i was rooting for the bad guys sometimes, because the heroes are just....
in the end, i decided that i didn't like any of the characters, including the bad guys, and while this book is reaching for some higher ground hinting at domestic abuse, women's shelters, environmental issues, anorexia, women's lib, spiritualism, sex trade, capitalism, sexism, etc, etc, etc....
it's like the author decided to throw in some "hot topics" from a newspaper without really understanding any of it.
« دایان» به « کلی» گفت: ما این کار رو به تنهایی انجام ندادیم و لیوانش رو بلند کرد و به صندلیِ خالی اشاره کرد و گفت: متشکرم ریچاردِ عزیزم، دوستت دارم...
سپس نوبت به « کلی» رسید، لیوانش رو بالا برد و به صندلیِ خالی در کنارش اشاره کرد و گفت: مارک دوستت دارم، متشکرمدوستانِ خردگرا، ...
« کلی» گفت: دایان میدانم به این چیزها اعتقاد داری، ولی من ندارم، میبینم و میدانم که فرشتۀ نگهبانی رویِ شانه ام نیست تا مراقبم باشدامیدوارم از خواندنِ این اثرِ بی نظیر از « سیدنی شلدون» لذت ببریدپیروز باشید و ایرانی
من این کتاب رو در دوران دبیرستان خوندم و واقعا اون موقع مجذوب و شیفته این کتاب شدم...شاید الان از سیدنی شلدون و دانیل استیل خوشم نیاد، اما در دوران راهنمایی و دبیرستان، نویسندگان خیلی محبوب من بودند.و تاثیر زیادی در علاقه من به کتابخونی داشتندامتیاز 4 حق این کتاب هست...
This is the reason why I was able to finish the each of the books above for only one day.But like what I said in my review of Morning, Noon & Night, I find Are You Afraid of the Dark?
I may not be much of a fan of Sidney Sheldon but I have read a number of his works enough for me to acquire a sense of familiarity as to what his stories are like.
Most of time, while reading the book, I always had to remind myself that I am reading Sidney Sheldon and not Dean Koontz.
Aachii Masala..:D
یک داستان کاملا ساده ، بیشتر شبیه فیلمنامه های هالیوودی با ریت 2.5-3 بود که 3-4 روزی وقتم رو گرفت فکر کنم به جاش میتونستم یه فیلم 2 ساعتی ببینم و خلاص یا حداقل یه کتاب دیگه میخوندم، به هر حال اولین کتابی بود که از شلدون خوندم و اصلا جذاب نبود ، فکر نکنم دیگه سراغ کتابهای ایشون برم ،به نظرم یک کتاب 400 صفحه ای باید حداقل 4 تا دیالوگ یا حرف خوب و دلچسب داشته باشه که خواننده رو مجبور کنه که برگرده و 2-3 بار دیالوگ رو مرور کنه
من هر وقت کتابی می خونم که ترجمه شده کلی برای مترجم کتاب غصه می خورم که با چه مصیبتی کتاب رو اصلاح کرده تا وزارت ارشاد مجوز چاپش و بده در اواسط کتاب بودم که خوندم کینگزلی با پائولا قرار گذاشت تنر کینگزلی مرد جذاب و خانم بازی بود که هر بار با کسی دوست می شد و بعد مثل توپ بیسبال و با یک ضربه محکم طرف مقابلش آوت می کرد ولی حالا پائولا بود که افسار تنر و به دست گرفته بود خلاصه امر اینکه بعداز سه چهار بار قرار گذاشتن بالاخره پائولا گفت : « تنر نمی خوای منو برسونی خونه؟» تنر با خوشحالی و اشتیاق گفت: « چرا که نه !
The best! tricked into always writing a very good interesting,mysterious,dark thriller that made enough sense and the readers take notice,well S.Sheldon has done just that and more..great writing also
"And I would have gotten away with it too, if it weren't for you meddling ... "  Yeah, that's like every Scooby Doo villain ever, and rather, unfortunately, applies to the highly comical villains of this lacklustre Sidney Sheldon plot. With bickering, paper-thin, highly annoying protagonists and a cast of villains so much like the ones Scooby faced, I wonder whether this was actually sponsored by Hanna-Barbera! (Hmm, thinking cap on)My Rating - 1/5 (aka Utter tosh)
I really enjoyed reading Sidney Sheldon's last novel, ''Are You Afraid of the Dark?'' Not just that, I liked it so much that I would have loved to give it a 4 out of 5, but I cannot possibly ignore it's faults and flaws.
I also liked the deep friendship that Kelly and Diane develop.
Their friendship somewhat reminded me of Theo and Nell of the 1963 film ''The Haunting''.Every time Kelly and Diane ran away from the attackers, I smiled and laughed!
But I must mention again, it was a very wonderful read filled with suspense, adventure, thrills, humor, and emotional intensity.
Okay, so if this book was Sidney Sheldon at the top of his game, I'm definitely not reading any of his other books because I really didn't like this book.First of all, it was way to predictable.
And they're very one demensional too.I really don't even want to continue talking about the book because I disliked reading it so much.
In summary, I didn't like the book because of the predictable plot and the shallow, one-demensional characters who really aren't real women at all but just some author's fantasy of what a perfect woman should be.
Utilizing his typical berserk, page-turning style, Sheldon takes us directly into the story with a progression of passings that are made to look like suicides. At the point when the spouses of two of the "suicide" casualties get together to collaborate, they understand there is an abnormal association between their husbands' passings – the two men worked for a mammoth organization called the Kingsley International Group, and the two men were headed to Washington, D.C., to meet with somebody about something risky. Something that would cost them, and twelve or so others, their lives. Something many refer to as "Prima."
Sidney Sheldon's Are you Afraid of the Dark isn't of the same caliber as some of his other works such as Master of the Game, If Tomorrow Comes, or Bloodline.
These books have bigger-than-life characters that are still believable.
Books like The Best Laid Plans and The Other Side of Midnight have complicated plot twists that the reader considers plausible.
The storyline in Are You Afraid of the Dark is simplistic and the book just feels as though it has been rushed.
I am a Sidney Sheldon fan, so I still found it suspenseful enough to see through to the end.
سرگرم کننده ست فقط همین
typical Sidney Sheldon.(in a good way) no human emotions bt the thrill and mystery intact.
Even if Omertà wasn't written by Ser Puzo it's still better than this novel.In stasis, just for the heck of it I reread this because clearly I don't love myself enough but I don't think I have laughed aloud like this in a long while.
But then again like the author of Kramer vs Kramer said books serves as time capsules that we can revisit, that is such a beautiful thought, right ?
So if I wanted to get a 2004 feel I'll just reread this novel as devoid of substance as it was.
الفكرة الاساسية للرواية هي السيطرة وتوظيف المعرفة المهنية لتحقيق الاهداف.
وتوضح الراوية صراع الدول للأستحواذ على أسلحة لتدمير الاخرين والصراع في الرواية بين امريكا روسيا أوروبا.
لتحقيق هذا الهدف يتم تصفية العلماء خاصة المتخصصين في نفس الحقل او العارفين عن الموضوع وكذلك كل الباحثين في هذا المجال المعرفي حتى لا تستطيع أي جهة أخرى الاستفادة منهم وتقوم شركة واحدة بالهيمنة على السوق.
وهذا صراع بين قوى كبرى شركات دول واصحاب نفوذ وسيطرة انسان عادي بسيط زوجتين.ــ بمعنى يريد ان يقول سيدني شيلدون ان الانسان مهما كان ضعيف بسيط فهو قادر على أحداث تغيير كبير المهم هو المعرفة وعدم الخوف.
It's really hard to believe this book was written by Sidney Sheldon. Though he's known for writing popular, commercial fiction, this book was downright pretentious and lame! It's riddled with too many unnecesary flashbacks and near misses. The plot, characters, situations, everything is just soo lame! Too bad this was the last novel he ever wrote. I kind of feel sorry for him :/
As expected, I was literally blown away by the plot development as I resumed the reading.
The flashback, which Mr. Sheldon uses became and effective tool in the plot development.The characters, were creatively portrayed with their unique characteristics that will hook the reader as soon as it is read.
Diane and Kelly also made irrational decisions that led to their capture which I later on realized was Mr. Sheldon's way of portraying the two women's vulnerability against a powerful character and his schemes.The individual qualities and attributes of Mr. Sheldon's characters give them a true-to-life resemblance of today.
The moment one thinks that this is it, there won't be any more surprises BOOM!!
and the biggest secret is revealed to you.The ending of his novels are always unpredictable and I simply love them for this very reason...this novel just carries his legacy forward.There is one thing that caught my attention this time; the title of the novel.
I love the way he has woven the story around the title and not just given a title according to the story and BTW I just simply love the dark!!
Thirty years back, this book would have felt unputdownable. Now, it's an unbearable drag. My humble suggestion: please avoid this inflated work full of two-dimensional stereotypical characters, which is devoid of any real surprise or twist. You can find much-much better techno-thrillers or suspense-driven thrillers now, dime-a-dozen.NOT RECOMMENDED.
although the run is pretty interesting but at one point it gets too surreal and it does seem like fiction. Is it just me or has Sidney Sheldon lost his touch?
واو الصدف فيها كثيره الروايه ممتعه نوعاً
Every twist or surprise was also totally predictable and there was only one, near the end, that wrapped things up neatly which I didn’t see coming.As stated above, I don’t usually like to write bad reviews, but the late Mr Sheldon is a towering figure in modern literature with three hundred million books sold and eighteen best sellers and numerous awards to his name.
I don’t think one bad review from me is going to affect his reputation too badly.
In high school, I ate these books like candy, and sometimes (when I'm stressed, or can't focus on the depth of language in "real" literature) I like to return to the fluff of Sidney Sheldon.
Episode after episode, these women narrowly escape death, while simultaneously trying to solve the mystery of who would want to kill them and why.This book was an easy read.
I almost wonder if Sheldon was losing his marbles when he wrote this book?I'm a school teacher.
Thanks, Mr. Sheldon (RIP), for providing me with escapism at its pulpiest.
This is my second book by Sidney Sheldon, and I was a little disappointed in this one.
For instance, the two main characters continued to get burned by people after contacting people at KIG.
It seems like after the first couple of times, they would realize that KIG was the common link and find another way make contact.
Second, the women were shot, but didn't die because the killer wanted to have his way with them so he used a special kind of bullet.
It seems like Mr. Sheldon just got tired of this story all together when writing it.
I read this book because it is by my mother's favorite author. She told me that is was not one of his best, and I hope she is right because this was super cheesy. The characters were not believable and their emotions did not match their situations. I'm pretty sure if I was being stalked by some crazy, rich, and powerful man who wanted to kill me, I would not go on a shopping spree at an expensive boutique, even if I was looking for a disguise. I'm going to have to read his other books to redeem his name.
Once in a while, I get an urge to borrow a 'toilet-read'.
That's not to say that the book is badly written.
It's just a term I use to describe something easily digestible, compelling and great fun to read.
Sidney Sheldon is one such writer I turn to in moments like these and Are You Afraid Of The Dark lived up to my expectations.
I could hardly put the book down and found myself reading it in the car, while I took a shower (yes!
It's one of my talents), while I ate my meals and while I was...
in the toilet.
