https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/655427.The_Monarch_of_the_Glen
REVIEW FOR: MONARCH OF THE GLEN Compton MacKenzie  “Upholding the Honor of Clan Traditions in the Highlands” Set in the Scottish highlands after WW2 this delightful book introduces several amusing characters—none more so than Hector, the proud but harassed laird of Clan MacDonald. Deadly serious when it comes to matters of clan honor and family loyalty, Ben Nevis (as he is called--not to be confused with the majestic peak of the same nostalgic name) booms edicts and issues floridmilitaristic co
Deadly serious when it comes to matters of clan honor and family loyalty, Ben Nevis (as he is called--not to be confused with the majestic peak of the same nostalgic name) booms edicts and issues floridmilitaristic commands as if he could run the show as his ancestors did generations/centuries before.
Adamant about not involving such mundane authorities as the Police, Ben Nevis decides to wage war on the intruders—who fight back just as violently in their truculent determination to demand their claim to right-of-way.
In a lighthearted vein, gently poking fun at his national foibles and pridethe author spins an amusing tale of intrigue and pompous indignation on both sides.
As the book description says: “a humorous novel.” I read it, of course, after having seen the BBC show on television.
The spirit of the farce is in both, but the book lacked the sweet moments and the endearing characters.
The plot was the hikers who wanted free reign to camp and hike where they like vs the laird, who wanted to lock all of the hikers in his dungeon for trespassing.
There was an American couple visiting, who decided to buy land and go native, including a garish orange kilt, and the poet trying to free Scotland from England.
I've watched a couple seasons of PBS's "Monarch of the Glen," and the opening sequence has, "Inspired by the Highland Novels of Compton Mackenzie" on it, so I went in search of the books.
My library's ILL got the out-of-print book from West Texas University, ha ha.
It's set in the 1920s, so the characters and storyline is completely different from the TV show, but it's still an enjoyable book, with colourful characters and a similar type of humour as the show.
I'm going to see if there are other books with the same characters, I'm not sure at this point.
I loved this book. There were moments where I laughed out loud! This story is set in the 20c. but some of the characters never left the 14c. I had just finished Nigel Tranter's "Robert the Bruce" trilogy and had a fresh understanding of the mindset behind some of the characters, which made them even more humorous for me. All the characters were fun. Great read!
This was a fun read. Being a fan of the TV series I was curious to see how closely it followed the book - answer - hardly at all. The characters in the book are much "campier" and a comical stereotype of the Scots (at least I hope it's a stereotype). The TV series captured some of the flavor and setting of the book and took a few story ideas from it but that's about all.
Quote from book: 'As a matter of fact very few people can spell in Gaelic, and I always believe those who say they can only get away with it because nobody else can, if you see what I mean.'
Well, the show is amazingly different from the book, and I couldn't help but imagine certain characters as their (sorta kinda) television counterparts, but all in all this is a fun and amusing read. Highly recommended.
Nothing like the wonderful BBC show, but very good in it's own right. Peppered throughout with Scots-Gaelic words and facts and tartan colors, you really come out of this with a taste of the Highlands.
First published in 1941, this was a step back into history providing a bit of culture shock in the reading.
Hiking is a new pastime of young British society and the attempts of hikers to maintain free rein in camping locations is the issue.
In thinking they can ignore the 'NO Camping' signs on the vast acreages of one, Donald MacDonald, Scottish Chieftain of the MacDonald clan.A skirmish between them turns physical and results in dungeon time.
A wealthy American with his young Canadian wife are guests of the Chieftain, due to discovery of Carrie's relational heritage as a MacDonald.
This isn't quite such a romp as the wonderful 'Whisky Galore' but I very much enjoyed the gentle satire in this book.
It's somewhat surprising/depressing to learn that Scotland's political landscape hasn't changed that much in the 75 years since this book was published.
The land is still owned by a minority, the folk with power still think what's best for them is all that matters...
and Scottish Nationalists are still, earnestly, trying to do their very best for Scotland.
It is extremely gentle satire though.
Mackenzie's depiction of the Highland locals is reminiscent of those in 'Whisky Galore'.
So, a nice wee book.
Gentle and amusing.
Absolutely nothing like the TV series, but a jolly fun read anyways!
A jolly romp. Unlike Wodehouse say, this shows it's age a little. Mackenzie tries to have it both ways, mocking both the landowning clan chief and the hikers who want to walk and camp on his land. At the end, Mackenzie leaves us with the aristocracy back in charge and no change to the status quo. This doesn't sit well in these more democratic days.But it's all meant as fun.
A fun read, a bit drawn put, but charming characters who fill out better in the tv series
I enjoyed this novel which the author in his dedication calls a farce.
Carrie Royde, her rich husband (Chester), and sister-in-law are staying at the castle of Ben Nevis, a Scottish Chieftan who claims that he may be related to Carrie.
Ben Nevis despises hikers and campers and has posted signs all over his land that there is to be no camping.
Much to Chester Royde's delight.
In the meantime Carrie comes across two Scottish Nationalists who are also camping on Ben Nevis' land and strikes up a friendship with them.
The novel follows the unusual and funny events that follow.
The book is very different from the tv series though.
He was my favorite character on the series and he's my favorite character in the book.
Incorrigible blusterer though he is, I just can't help but love him.There is a little romance, adventure, and lots of clever funny remarks.
I don't know a lot about the politics of Scotland so the humor in that part of the book was a little lost on me and I wanted to get back to the Glenbogle characters.
I enjoyed it and will read it again someday.This fulfilled the "funny book" requirement on the 2015 Reading Challenge by popsugar.
I’ve watched the BBC television adaptation of this show several times and enjoyed it, especially the character of the elderly and eccentric Laird Hector.
The corresponding character in the novel clearly inspired the television character, and each are delightful.
Beyond that, and the Scottish setting, hardly any details translated faithfully from book to screen.
The hilarious spirit of the novel rings true throughout.
Anyone who has seen and enjoyed the TV show should give this novel a try.
I laughed out loud so many times I had to be careful where I read the book so I wouldn’t disturb others!
This is a REALLY hard book to read.
It's hard to describe but basically there seem to be alot of Scottish 'in jokes' that are inexplicable if one is not Scottish nor knows anything intimate about Scotland.
So I guess the question is why I am I reading this if I have no particular interest in or knowledge of Scotland?
I am not giving this a star rating because there is nothing actually wrong with the book - it reads nicely and if I 'got it' I imagine from the style it would be very funny.

The brilliant character reading that notched this up to the 3* mark; all the moonlicht nicht tonicht s were spoken with such gusto and had me laughing. One of my father's old rifle shooting team mates went off to be the gillie to a laird in the highlands and I kept seeing his face here as the crusty Ben Nevis.
While the book and the tv series have very few similarities, I thoroughly enjoyed reading the book.
In fact, I loved it!
I found myself chuckling out loud several times at Hector's character and the things he would say.
I'm curious to check out other novels written by Compton Mackenzie.
If you have watched the tv series and would like to read the book, don't go into reading the book thinking it's going to be similar to the tv series (or vice versa).
The story lines are completely different.
I will say that Hector's character in both, though, is spot on.
It wasn't until after watching the BBC series that I found and read the book. I loved the series, but found the book a bit cumbersome to read, and I didn't quite get the same humor from the text as I did watching the series. Still the characters are endearing, and the settings are unique. Anyone wanting to "visit" Scotland in a book might find this book a good choice.
Fun farce about Scotland set between the wars.
I just couldn't get into this book. I might try again later.
Fun -- sort of reminded me of Angela Thirkell's Barsetshire novels.
I listened to this one and so the Scottish, English and Canadian voices were pretty funny while the story was told.
Definitely not like the BBC series that inspired me to read the book, but an interesting slice of a certain time period.
As much fun as the TV series!
Compton Mackenzie wrote a lot of very funny short stories. These must have been a pleasant bit of escapism in war-torn Britain.It was published in 1941.
I found The Monarch of the Glen overly romantic, which didn’t appeal to me. I stopped listening.
This is a fun book; it made we want to hop on a plane for Scotland!
