https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7952502-harry-potter

Growing up in the world of Harry Potter meant my upbringing was a little unconventional and hard work at times, but I wouldn't change any of it for a second.
I will always be proud to have been part of these film and I want to thank everyone - all the directors, all the crew, and all my co-stars - for teaching me so much and for giving me so many memories to treasure.
So much insider information and additional little anecdotes make my heart overflow with happiness.Find more of my books on Instagram
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)There still isn't any Harry Potter art books, but this movie companion is probably the best thing any fan could wish for.Harry Potter Wizardry is 160-page hardcover and designed like a scrapbook with little goodies — booklets, stickers, maps, even Harry's letter of acceptance to Hogwarts, etc - attached to the pages. The cover is also nicely embossed. It's printed by publisher Collins Design.The book covers all the seven films, including a sneak at at Deathly Ha
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)There still isn't any Harry Potter art books, but this movie companion is probably the best thing any fan could wish for.Harry Potter Wizardry is 160-page hardcover and designed like a scrapbook with little goodies — booklets, stickers, maps, even Harry's letter of acceptance to Hogwarts, etc - attached to the pages.
They talk about everything from creating sets like the Hogwarts castle to how they film the movie with computer graphics elements.
I'm impressed with how much content is included.This is the book Harry Potter fans have been waiting for.

Het boek over de films! Lees hier mijn recensie (met foto's van de inhoud) hier:http://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie/...
Not very much new information but it's very interesting and always nice to reread and refresh the mind about the Harry Potter movies. Besides I love the extras such as the letter, the Quidditch flyer, the Yule Ball invitation and so on.
Just splendid! Thank you so much, Annie, for the great gift :-)Highly recommended to fans of the HP series. You will find so many amazing behind-the-scenes stories and interesting tidbits; I love the blend of insights about/from the actors, as well as the directors, screenwriters, set designers, props, costumes, etc. It's just fantastic! So much more detailed (and fun!) than I could have imagined.
4,5.Visuaalisesti erittäin kaunis kirja. Maistui toisellakin lukukerralla yhtä hyvälle, ja kaikki extrasälä (kuten kelmien kartta) saa hihkumaan edelleen innosta.
Harry Potter: Film Wizardry does just that: a scrapbook that encompassed the decade-long saga, where everyone from the producers, directors, and production designer explain in details how they conceptualised some of the plot points and settings; and the actors, including the three stars, Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, and Emma Watson, hit memory lane to disclose some of the best, funniest, and sometimes most uncomfortable times they had playing Harry, Ron, and Hermione in the films.
The book itself ended with a sneak preview of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part II, with nothing more than image captions under a dozen or so small photos from Gringotts and Hogwarts.
This was one of my Christmas gifts, and I spent most of Christmas day reading this book. It is full of many cool things. There are little envolopes that have a bunch of stuff from the movies. Harry's acceptance letter toHogwarts, the Maurader's Map, Dolores Umbridge's educational decrees. You can't understand my delight as I turned each page to find... stuff. Really cool stuff. All of the main characters have their own page, giving you information about the actor who plays them, how that actor w
There are little envolopes that have a bunch of stuff from the movies.
This book, this awesome book is highly recommended to anybody who is even slightly interested in Harry Potter.
Even if you still think that it's boring, get for the things that come with it.
And it also has snapshots from Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows part 2.
Pretty much every page has concept art drawings of characters, creatures, and structures.Seriously, any fan of Harry Potter would be practically drooling over this book if they had any sense at all.
It is a seriously awesome book.Austinhttp://www.readingteen.net/2010/12/bo...
كتاب رائع لأى شخص معجب بهارى بوتر ,,هناك وراء الكواليس لكل الآفلام , صور رائعة و معلومات كثيرة جدا لم تعرفوها عن الافلام
So much fun!
Lovely book with a lot of behind the scenes info and titbits sprinkled throughout. It's almost as interesting as visiting the HP Studios, although the part about the last film was very short.
Double yup.In HARRY POTTER FILM WIZARDRY, David Heyman explains what happened to a handful of these first edition copies: he sent them to his lucky top tier screenwriters to see if anyone was interested in penning the script.
And they even got to keep their 1st editions!) But in a later round, the wonderful Steve Kloves, who has written all but one of the scripts, signed on.Another story that Heyman tells early in the book is about casting Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter.
In a nutshell, HARRY POTTER FILM WIZARDRY is 160 pages of pure awesomeness!!
The book covers all 8 movies, so I got to see a (very) few scenes from Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 before the movie comes out.
There are many mini interviews with cast members, directors, and others involved in the making of the films, and most of them had very interesting things to say.
I got a much better look at so many of the props than I did while watching the actual movies.Readers will see how J.K. Rowling was directly involved with some aspects of the filmmaking.
props from the actual movies, some of them in sticker form, I think; I didn’t tear out anything.
Mere words cannot convey the enjoyment the reader will receive from this book.This beautiful book offers a way to hold the wizarding world of Harry Potter in your hands.
The text explains how movie magic was accomplished, down to the special salt that stands in for snow in the models, which has diamond shaped crystals and even crunches like the real thing.The pictures, layout, and hidden goodies made the book worth the steep price.
You get to see, close up, so many of the magical things that were created to fill Harry's world.
BRAVO to the creative directors responsible.As a bonus feature (of which I was deprived because this was a library book and some CRETIN stole them all from this copy), this book also contains interactive pullouts like a mauraders map, tickets to the Yule Ball, etc.
- of which I am sure are every bit as cool as the rest of the book, but I cannot positively rate (because some CRETIN stole them all from my library copy).One small quibble: I do hope the publishers will re-print a revised edition of this to include information from Part II of The Deathly Hallows.
An absolute must-have for all Potter fans, this Brian Sibley book is all about the magic of Harry Potter films.
Think of it as a Harry Potter making-of extras in all of the HP movie DVDs, except they are in words (instead of in moving pictures) and more in-depth than anything I've ever seen in the DVD extras.
But suffice to say the book will appeal to those fans who are looking for collectible items AND fans who want to learn more about filmmaking, Harry Potter style.The author of this book, Brian Sibley, is the same one who made the Lord of The Rings movie companion books.
You can bet on Sibley's thoroughness in collecting the materials.
This is easily one of my favorite Potter based books.
It's wonderful to get a glimpse behind the actual making of the movies; and it's brilliant how much is actually shared - including replicas of popular props used in the movies.
That's an amazing feature of the book.
I like how the layout of the book actually is.
Essentially, it's a scrapbook of everything that the movies have featured over the decade.
It's a wonderful thing; and it's one of those books that will live on and we will look back at.
It's an absolutely amazing book, and completely worth the purchase.It is completely and utterly magical.
Ho adorato questo libro.Oltre a contenere un sacco di gadget della saga, come la mappa del malandrino, l'invito al ballo del ceppo, la carta d'identità del ministero, è colmo di curiosità ed episodi divertenti riguardo la realizzazione dei film di HP e dei ricordi che gli attori custodiscono.Mi sono divertita tantissimo a leggerlo, non mi sono mai annoiata, lo stile con cui è scritto è super scorrevole e non ci sono molti termini tecnici. Risulta tutto molto comprensibile ed interessante!Davvero un piccolo tesoro per gli appassionati.
It's every potterhead's dream to find something as cool as this, yes it may be expensive but I don't at all regret my decision of buying this. There are pretty little things stuck inside and very interesting facts to learn about the films/books there's a Hogwarts acceptance letter in there, a Yule ball invitation, and the Marauders map! I'm such a nerd so it's great for me to have little Harry Potter things that rarely anyone else has :3
4,5 tähteä. Mielenkiintoinen ja kattava teos, jonka avulla pääsee kurkistamaan Harry Potter-elokuvien kulissien taakse. Rakastan mukana olevaa oheismateriaalia, kuten Kelmien karttaa! Harmittaa, että viimeistä osaa ei vielä tässä kirjassa käsitellä (ilmeisesti rahankuvat silmillä on toimittu näin, sillä teoksesta on tullut uudempi, laajempi painos). Mutta on tämä viihdyttävää luettavaa yhtä kaikki!
It was an amazing read, it gives you a breif roundup of how everything was done. You see pictures how the actors grow up on every movie.The productions crew, some of them have taken something from the movies, and reteinde it. Cool.
I bought this book about a month ago and it's so stunning i could cry. The removable props are basically what harry potter fans need. It's worth the price, im so in love.
Maravilloso libro con mucha información sobre la creación de las películas y además acompañado de increíbles facsímiles. Ahora tengo ganas de ver, una vez más, toda la saga y como no releer los libros. Es una saga de la que nunca me voy a cansar.
Geweldig boek! Een aanrader voor elke Potterhead. Het boek is mooi ingedeeld met foto's, extra's als catalogi en een mini-marauders map en veel informatie over het maken van de films. De hele recensie hiervan met wat foto's van de inhoud komt binnenkort op mijn blog.
Så lækkert et design, og dejligt med bagomviden af filmene! Den var bare en god en 😍
a more compromised version of Harry Potter Page to Screen but with some new information. the book being designed my MinaLima and the extra paper props like the marauders map and the yule ball program included made it a simply delightful read!
This book gives such a wonderful insight into how the Harry Potter films were made. It was great to read comments from the producers, directors and actors about their experiences filming the series. It really made me appreciate how much work went into the films, especially with props and the sets. All of the concept art we get to see in the book is absolutely gorgeous, if it was available to buy I definitely would! The best thing about this book is all the the removable props you get, I am so happy to have my own Marauder's Map!!
I kind of glossed over this one and mainly looked at the pictures because I already know all of the information. This was just a way for me to ease out of the Potter universe. Overall the formatting is great, writing spectacular, and incredibly informative. I'm going to use this as a model for my yearbook spreads! Anyway happy reading.
