https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/871200.Awake_and_Sing_
Jewish immigrant angst and dark humor during the depression.
This time, Odets takes on the effects of the Depression and what he sees as capitalistic oppression and examines it at the level of a family living in the Bronx.
The family, the Bergers, face one problem after another – all the problems, however, tied to the fact that there is not enough money coming in to do more than meet the basic expenses of life – rent and food.
The family consists of Bessie Berger, the mother.
She knows that when one lives in the jungle one must look out for the wild life.” Myron Berger, Bessie’s husband, “is a born follower.
I read this play just before seeing it performed. The reading experience was interesting enough, but the characters on the page never came to life as fully as they did when I saw them on stage (admittedly I gave the script a cursory read though). The story of Jewish immigrants living in the Bronx during the Great Depression sounds fairly cliche, but Odets's provides his characters with such tremendous depth that at times I had to remind myself that this play is set nearly a hundred years ago.
Odets has been called an American Chekhov, and for good reason! He writes in the same style--eccentric family, right-on lines, heavy on character, a challenge to actors, more character based than plot heavy. But without the Russian names, so it's much easier to grasp. I would love to see this staged, or to direct it, but it would be difficult to find a talented enough cast. It would be easy to screw it up.
Well-written dialogue and an engaging dysfunctional family drama set during the Great Depression, but ultimately it felt like it wasn't fully developed (and indeed it was Odets' first published work). While I enjoyed the drama and the characters quite a lot, the suddenly optimistic ending didn't sit quite right with me. I guess after all that strife it was difficult to take such unbridled (and unfounded) optimism seriously.
This was the first time I've read any Odets since college. There's a lot I really enjoy within the play (the Chekhovian flow of the piece, much of the dialogue), but that was colored by my extreme distaste for the way Hennie's character arc was handled. She felt incredibly two dimensional to me, which is both surprising and unfortunate, given the raw material for her storyline.
ترجمه ی فارسی این نمایش نامه را اینجا بخوانید؛http://www.ali-ohadi.com/global/index...برای نقد و بررسی آثار کلیفورد اودتس، اینجا را بخوانیدhttp://www.ali-ohadi.com/global/index...
Why is there an exclamation mark, Cliff? Is it to try and prove to me this play is exciting? Because it's not. And that's not bad. But these people do not excite me one bit. I really wanted to like Clifford Odets, but I just couldn't do it. Hallie Flanagan's Can You Hear Their Voices? did agitprop much better in my opinion.
Sometimes you read a play that you wish you wrote. This is one of those plays for me. The dialogue cracks, the characters are rich and vibrant and the subject matter is authentic.
An immigrant family struggling during the Great Depression rants and raves at each other in their own depression ending in tragedy and humdrum.Clifford Odets was considered the spiritual successor to Eugene O'Neill and this play certainly fills that bill. The family is angry, tragic, suicidal and always yelling at each other. Felt very O'Neill ala "Long Days Journey Into Night".. perhaps if the two families from were to have a picnic they would murder each other with pickle forks.I like plays that celebrate the human spirit and this one did not do it for me. Can't recommend.
solid play. i neither adored nor despised it. the characters relationships both to each other and their environment are very interesting. also, some of the content (unmarried pregnant woman, socialism, suicide) was considered revolutionary at the time it was written (1935), which is pretty cool.
Talk. Talk. Talk. Hope it’s a lot better onstage.
I had some trouble getting into it at first, I think because it dumps you straight into the dialogue with no explanation or even stage directions about who the characters are.
My favorite scenes were between Moe and Hennie; they were dripping with subtext and backstory.Technical stuff:Summary: (view spoiler)[This is a play about an impoverished family in which the parents try to manipulate the children’s relationships and the children struggle to realize their dreams.
(hide spoiler)]Cast: 7 men, 2 womenScenes for classwork: There really aren’t any good two-person scenes because people are always running on and off the stage.
