https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13099738-steal-like-an-artist
this book was incredible. i feel so inspired and motivated!
A how-to book about painting is probably of less use than a book of paintings you enjoy.I'm not saying there's no place for these types of books, and this one is smart because it's a quick read and it sticks pretty well to the motivational side of things as opposed to the nuts and bolts.
It's good to read motivational stuff, especially because creating art can be a pretty lonely process.
Some of Austin's suggestions will validate what you're already doing, some will challenge you to fundamentally change a creative practice, others will inspire you to grab a notebook and get to work immediately.Because it's such a small and accessible book, you'll want to go back to it from time to time.
Just like Stephen King's On Writing, as you change and grow as an artist, it reveals new ideas and inspirations to you that you may have missed on a previous read.This is a fantastic addition to your library, and a wonderful gift for any creative person in your life.
This was such a phenomenal and much needed read for me.
Steal Like an Artist gives ideas that apply to anyone who’s trying to inject some creativity into their life and their work.
Whether you’re in school or not, it’s always your job to get yourself an education.”“Start copying what you love.
Painters learn to paint by reproducing masterpieces.”“You don’t put yourself online only because you have something to say—you can put yourself online to find something to say.
If you're interested in buying Steal Like an Artist, just click on the image below to go through my link.
Sometimes it just has to be one idea, one quote, one line, that can make a book for you.
This book was solidly consistently good, but for me it was the push to start using a notebook that really made a change for me.** So personally I liked the other one more, but I've heard a solid chunk of people that like this one more..
certain ideas will click more with different people.
I recommend reading both ..
I read them very close together and they feel like one project.** (I wrote a blog post about it, check it out: http://arielbissett.com/notebook-expe...)
Posted at Shelf InflictedThis eye-catching little book was wedged into the corner of one of the couches in the student lounge where I work.
They can help those who want to be more creative at work, or find room in one’s life for a hobby when time is in short supply.
There are other tips for managing one’s life in order to be able to spend the time doing creative and fulfilling work.
You need to spend some time in another land, among people that do things differently than you.
It’s a short, fun book, and not a bad way to spend 30 minutes.
I like reading about the daily process that my favorite writers/musicians/artists/people to get into their creative groove because it's fascinating, not because I want to copy them (though Kleon recommends a lot of copying; and this isn't to say there's anything wrong with it, per se, but it's not my motivation).The information here isn't just necessary for the stuff people generally consider "creative" - some of stuff is helpful just in your daily life.
This book is a good reminder for people in those positions too, who think they aren't in any position to be creative.
Austin Kleon's "Steal Like An Artist" is a fun little book.
This little book is filled with fun engaging anecdotes.....with a list of 10 things to do to unlock our creativity.
-- Proof: I AM NOT CREATIVE?/!But.....Austin listed THINGS WE MUST DO: Take a walk --- works for me!!!
Start your logbook---For what?
Start a blog --- You've got to be kidding: Goodreads takes enough time.
This is a great book to read 'while' being lazy - boring - sleepy - in your pj's -when you need something 'little & lightweight' to hold in your hands!
"تنها هنرى كه براى هميشه خواهم آموخت،چيزى است كه بتوانم آن را بدزدم"-ديويد بووىچگونه يك ايده پرداز خ
The book focuses on 10 rules for people to follow in order to be creative.
Rule number one is "Steal like an artist." The other nine are printed on the back of the book, but simply knowing the rules does not give you an edge in creativity.
You need the explanations, the stories, the logic behind the rules that Mr. Kleon provides to get that tingly feeling (figuratively speaking, of course).I recommend this book for anyone over the age of 10, anyone who loves to create but feels stifled in today's world, anyone who loves to think, and anyone doing anything at all creative.
Their passion for what they do is so charismatic that it's easy to get swept away, missing the part where they learned — through trial, error, mentors or schooling — how to market themselves effectively, how to manage money, how to lose the "romance" of being an artist and still find pleasure when the passion grows cool.
I never wanted to be bothered by the "boring" things like money, accounting, contracts, marketing.
If you're going to steal like an artist, steal the business sense they bring to the table as well.
Bien dijo George Orwell en "1984": "Los mejores libros son los que nos dicen lo que ya sabemos".Fue bastante agradable comprender que no estoy solo en esto de la escritura, que todos tenemos problemas, y que al final, lo que importa es hacer las cosas bien, aunque a veces no haya inspiración o lo que más amas se torne aburrido y tedioso.Austin nos regala una serie de consejos que nos permiten desarrollar nuestro proceso y no morir en el intento.¿Quien dijo que robar era malo? (Léan el libro para entender, por favor).
Reading this book might be the fastest thing my bosses ever asked me to do.This is a wonderful little book with advice on creativity that makes you think.
"Collect books, even if you don't plan on reading them right away.
But it's true though, my library reminds me that the world is full of undiscovered territories and opportunities.
The computer brings out the uptight perfectionist in us - we start editing ideas before we have them (...) because once the computer is involved, things are on an inevitable path to being finished.
I take a piece of paper and i start writing random ideas on there.
That blog post (by Austin Kleon) has been turned into a lovely little book: Steal Like an Artist.I bought it, took it home, read it in under an hour, and experienced the euphoria I had reading the original blog post all over again.
Kleon says:“Some people find this idea depressing, but it fills me with hope…If we’re free from the burden of trying to be completely original, we can stop trying to make something out of nothing, and we can embrace influence instead of running away from it.”Oh my goodness, yes!
Yeah, probably because they thought you already knew them.This book is packed to the brim with platitudes such as: try to do good work, there are lots of different things to consider when choosing a place to live, it's important to be careful who you marry, money is really important, try to find a day job that you like and, my favorite, take $10 to the stationers and buy some stuff - then you can write your ideas down.
I usually don't go for self-help, but this seemed like it would be different. No disappointments here! This is a great book for you creative folk out there. Personally I think everyone can benefit from what this book has to offer.
Oh fooey. Wrote something, then accidentally clicked and lost it. Let's get this over with:-Loved it. Was awesome. Will reread, often.-Too much quoting. Isn't the whole point, reappropriate, don't rip off? Excessive quoting seems to go against that.-Figures=awesome and funny. Add anything? Sadly, I don't think so.-Good direct voice.-Moves well, but chunks are so small that they feel slight. It is a manifesto that outlines main points, rather than a substantive work that discusses things.Still, awesome.Oh yeah, loved title, but that's like, duh.

In an age where even in art there seems to be a focus on the final product or end result, Kleon's manifesto on creativity is refreshing.
I say this because it is the equivalent of a whole body approach to creativity as opposed to the spot treatment of fixing one specific area of your art, whatever your medium may be; to put it simply, it's seeing the forest for the trees.
Kleon encourages living a creative life in which you make and play while allowing yourself opportunity to work and grow at your own pace.
Creativity is less about what you make than the process it took to get you there.
This book is amazing! It's not condoning plagiarism, it suggests sharing of ideas and the process behind the product created by other artists. While you can easily sit and read it completely, I think it is best to read in small sections and think about what you've read and how it applies to your own form of art.
I don't often go the 1-star route. But this is such a blatant attempt at brand-building that I could feel the "speaker's fees" right there between every page. Read Anne Lamott's "Bird by Bird" instead for a true creative boost.
Imo one of the potential good things about this feeling is it forces you to challenge yourself, to keep trying to evolve beyond where you are and what you are currently creating.Some of the key things he mentions which I try and practice: do anything you can to carve 0ut time to do your creative work.
This is merely how it works and feels for me, I'm sure it might be different for others.The other book in this vein that I'm planning on reading is Twyla Tharpe's The Creative Habit.
Probably the piece that stuck out the most for me was Kleon's discussion of constraints.
I've known that putting constraints on, say, a piece of writing - putting a box around what I was trying to create - actually made the piece better and, strangely enough, made me feel more free.
It was refreshing to hear this bit of advice from someone else.And that's really why this book is great.
Kleon takes the things artists know but rarely articulate and he articulates them.
Really a book to keep on hand whenever you're feeling stuck.
The world is a small town."• "Keep a praise file." Use for a quick boost--don't dwell there.• Keep a regular "boring" schedule and stay out of debt.• Get a calendar and schedule incremental work on projects (he recommends daily work)• Keep a log book.
Providing an insight into what it takes to be an artist, this book does more than just going behind the scenes.
It was off to a very strong start, but most of what I read wasn't new.
But it was still a great read because of the way he arranged everything.
The creativity and effort the author put into this really shows.
It's filled with sketches and graphs and doodles and newspaper clippings, making the reading an enjoyable one.
Plus, it's barely 150 pages long, and that's exactly how I like my nonfiction, light and funny.A+ for creativity
"Don't worry about people stealing your ideas. If your ideas are any good, you'll have to ram them down people's throats." -Howard AikenTwo hours and a few thickly inked pages later, I feel inspired enough to write a five-pound work of fiction and maybe paint a masterpiece on my bedroom walls as well.
This is a quick, funny how-to book that offers artists (the kind who paint, writers, filmmakers, etc.) tips on "stealing" other artists' art.
Author Austin Kleon points out that no artist's work is ever completely original, and that trying to be completely original will daunt an artist and eventually smother her/his creativity.
He suggests artists embrace the inevitability of influence, celebrate living outside of a vacuum, relax, and have fun with their art.
Beyond that, he offers tips on how to stay focused, upbeat, and receptive to incoming inspiration.True to its subject, this book features an abundance of quotes and tips from artists who aren't the author.
What a fantastic read. I don't have anything else to add to that. Read it, get inspired and create something'new'.
Тази книга е първият ми допир до нехудожествена литература и съм много радостен да кажа, че ми хареса много.
Мисля че е подходяща за всеки, които се занимава с изкуство или твори каквото и да е.
Авторът дава много добри съвети за това как да вършим работата си без да се съмняваме в нея, как да намираме хубавото и забавното в малките неща.
Лично за мен, книгата беше много полезна като се има предвид, че съм човек с определени щели за бъдещето.
Надявам се от издателство AMG Publishing да издадат и другите книга на Остин Клиън защото предполагам, че са точно толкова добри, колкото беше й тази.
4.5Amazing highly recommended
