https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1024750.Green_for_Danger
First published in 1944, this is the second in Christianna Brand's novels featuring the chain smoking Inspector Cockrill (first book in the series is "Heads You Lose") and probably her most famous mystery, being made into a film with Alastair Sim. The novel is set during WWII in a military hospital.
Although WWII crime mysteries are virtually a genre unto themselves these days, this is very much the real thing and you can feel the authenticity of experience in every line.The novel is set at Heron's Park in Kent, a former children’s sanatorium, now a military hospital.
TABLETS OF MORPHINE DISAPPEAR...NOW BACK IN PRINT, THIS CLASSIC CRIME NOVEL BY CHRISTIANNA BRAND WAS THE BASIS FOR THE SUCCESSFUL FILM OF THE SAME NAME.----------------My take......Tense and claustrophobic, an enjoyable murder mystery in a Kent hospital, set against a backdrop of German bombs during the Second World War.Slightly confusing to begin with as I was quickly introduced to a plethora of characters in rapid succession, and unfamiliar acronyms for wartime medical corps - eg V.A.D.
Nevertheless, despite my enjoyment of the book, I'm probably done with Christianna Brand.3.5 from 5Brand penned over 20 novels in her career, including six (maybe seven) with Cockrill at the helm.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdc3F...Description: Set in a military hospital during the blitz, this novel is one of Brand's most intricately plotted detection puzzles, executed with her characteristic cleverness and gusto. When a patient dies under the anesthetic and later the presiding nurse is murdered, Inspector Cockrill finds himself with six suspects--three doctors and three nurses--and not a discernible motive among them.Splendid!
And Sister Bates lives in hope that she might meet some nice officers...These seven people will become the chief suspects when a patient at the hospital dies unexpectedly on the operating table.
Brand introduces the characters straight away, and sets up the plot so that only these seven people could have had the opportunity to commit the crime.
And Brand doesn't forget to clear up all the side plots she has used as distractions along the way, as well as letting us know how things work out for the remaining characters.Not all Golden Age novels glitter, but this one does – highly recommended.www.fictionfanblog.wordpress.com
This is not a historical novel - Ms Brand was simply recounting life as it existed then, which makes this more like a live document of the times.Despite all these positives going for it, the book somehow has a rather "pulpy" feel to it and I strong suspect the rather sloppy romance to be the cause.
Ms Brand can write mysteries well enough but she is definitely no romance writer.
The romance in fact brought to my mind bad, forgettable scB-grade and some war time Hollywood movies of the 1930s and 40s.
I read this having seen the film adaptation first, but still thoroughly enjoyed the book even thought I knew the solution of the mystery.
It's a splendid WWII period piece, written in the thick of the blitz when Brand was living near the military hospital where her surgeon husband worked, sharing the nurses' bomb shelter during the air-raids than interrupted her writing.
I can only guess at how big a surprise the conclusion would have been to me if I hadn't known it going into the book, but now I'm eager to try more of Brand's books and find out.
"My God' supposing she does tell Barney!" Their unconsciously raised vices had reached her clearly through the thin partition.
"Supposing she tells Barney - he'd never speak to me again; he'd never love me again!
I should lose him, and all for a man like Gervase Eden...Gervase would love me for a week or a month, and then just let me go.
"He took one look at us, sized us up quite correctly as a horde of sex-starved women, and exerted his doddering masculine appeal to lull us into a false security."01.12.2018 Finished this story and WOW, I did NOT see THAT person as the murderer!
The second volume in Inspector Cockrill from author Christianna Brand.
Her husband was a surgeon and they lived near the hospital.
This book takes place in a hospital and it shows familiarity with the workings of one and especially the workings of a surgical team.In the midst of WWII, bombs are going off all over England.
People trapped in the buildings.
One such building falls on the mailman and his friend, home from the Navy.
And, so, subsequently is his friend.And then people start dying.
And the Inspector is called in.
Could just be a regular death at the hospital.
I enjoyed the book, too.
I've heard about this one for years, and finally read it. The mystery itself kept me guessing until the very end, even when I was convinced I'd figured it out. I never could warm to the characters, though, or the rather clumsily-written romantic elements. (side note: it drove me nuts how often everyone referred to everyone else as 'darling' - my brain couldn't help but count the times and it was very distracting)
Perhaps I am being a bit harsh with two stars, and I did think this book was very cleverly written but for some reason I didn't enjoy it very much. Lots of characters and some good humour, but it wasn't the book for me.
The fear of the air raids came across well too, including the fact that some people showed their fear, others did not, or it came out in odd ways.We get to know each of these people quite well during the book, and I liked the way the characters were drawn, even if I didn't like some of them very much.
This releases the gas which nearly kills Fredddi, and it appears at first to be attempted murder by Woods, but this turns out to be entirely wrong when further details are revealed later.
All right but of such a solid Golden Mystery tradition that it was hard to get into it. "It will be one of these seven, er, now six characters. Here's the one that I'm meant to suspect. It won't be them. Who and how? Do I care?" I recently read PD James's Shroud for a Nightingale, so it may just be that this book suffers by comparison. This was cleverly plotted, everything done completely fine, but didn't stand out.
If you love mysteries and haven't read this, you're in for a real treat if you pick up this book. It is a classic.
I enjoyed this one a lot.
I thought the characters were well drawn and their possible motives feasible.
There were no obvious baddies', even the murderer was an essentially nice person, with a reasonable motive if things had actually happened the way he or she thought.The opening scene is very good.
There were one or two things about the plot which were less likely.
It was very convenient that there was a lot of paint sitting around in just the right shade of green for instance and there were some suspiciously rushed timings.
This was not a significant problem for me because of the good characters.
Really liked this book.
I think that maybe the fact that we got to know the characters helped a lot.
My money was on the wrong person being the villain, and the explanation at the end was great!At first the setting of a hospital did put me off a bit, when an operation was written about giving more details than I wanted to know, but thankfully this didn't happen again.
The portrayal of the war going on around the hospital seemed to be as I would imagine it must have been, and the relationships were not surprising due to the closeness of the environment.I will definitely put my self out to read more by this author.
A military hospital during the blitz makes a brilliant setting for a murder mystery; endless dim corridors and the drm-drm of the aeroplanes overhead. I figured out the killer's modus operandi, but the soap-opera of overlapping love triangles, jealousies, and secrets kept me distracted and second-guessing the killer's identity until the last moment. The pieces are simple but Brand keeps shifting them like a kaleidoscope.
This is a good read. You hear, from those in the know, that Brand is ranked highly as a mystery writer, up there with Christie and Sayers. This was pretty good, premise-wise, but the real joy of the book is the atmospheric recreation of a London hospital during the bombings in WWII. About 3 1/2 stars maybe.
This had too much romance in it for my tastes. The author used the character's last name just as often as their first. I couldn't keep track of who was in love with who. And frankly I didn't care. Writing skill was definitely of good caliber but the whole thing fell apart for me.
Not saying too much as this was my Group's choice for the Golden Age detective story and will be discussing it with them soon. Can't go without just mentioning the wonderful humour present throughout the book. Christianna Brand must have been a real character!
Loved the film also!
We learn in the first pages that one of seven people introduced to us through the letters a postman is delivering will be a confirmed murderer before the end of the year.
After what seems like endless interviews, a second murder, and a third attempt, Inspector Cockrill (so familiar to the suspects that most of them call him by his nickname) decides that, although he knows who the murderer is, he won't get a conviction without a confession.
Soon he isolates the suspects from the rest of the hospital and makes sure someone is always keeping them under guard.
(Fiction, Mystery, Vintage, WWII)This was my second outing with Brand (the first in October 2014) and I found that Green for Danger certainly justified Brand’s place in the pantheon of great Golden Age mystery authors.This second outing of Inspector Cockrill is set in a rural English hospital during WWII.
The mystery is extremely well and fairly clued and although I caught on before the reveal, it was just enough before that I wasn’t frustrated by obviousness.Tipped off by Nan from Letters from a Hill Farm, I found the movie version of Green for Danger on YouTube, and greatly enjoyed it.
I was about a chapter into this book...
when I realized I had seen the movie.
So, it was a very good movie.
However, the Book is even better.
The plot has a lot of turns and twists- along with the flavor of WWII.
Christiana Brand gives a little of the background going into the story.
Bombs were falling while she wrote.
But, if she didn't go to a bomb shelter- she wore a tin hat and typed on- which I found endearing.
The Plot, lends itself perfectly to a Hospital background mending young military personnel.
I am going to search for more of her books.
I was sure I'd figured it out (not the how, but the who and the why), and then she yanked the rug out from under me, and turned out I was wrong on all counts--but wonderfully wrong, and all the clues were there, she played absolutely fair.Very good mystery.
(Better than her Heads You Lose which is the only other I've read by her).(Note: 5 stars = amazing, wonderful, 4 = very good book, 3 = decent read, 2 = disappointing, 1 = awful, just awful.
I'm fairly good at picking for myself so end up with a lot of 4s).
Embarrassingly, I'd never heard of Ms. Brand.
However, I watched the film adaptation recently since Alastair Sim is my all-time favorite actor and decided that I had to read the book.
Usually, I try to read a book before seeing its adaptation.
The book was absolutely marvelous and compulsive reading (I read from page 20 through to the end in one sitting) despite my knowing the dénouement from the movie.
Her prose style is enjoyably acerbic and her descriptions of a hospital during the Blitz (Ms. Brand had been a volunteer in one herself) are riveting.
I will be reading more Christianna Brand.
I quite enjoyed this classic mystery. Excellent setting: a military hospital in WWII during the blitz. The introduction of the characters via letters the postman carried was well done, with appropriate foreboding. Then it is six months later, the cast has assembled and the story begins. Very well written.
There is nothing more enjoyable to read than a English mystery written in the 1930s-1940s era. I have a collection of Penguin published books from this period, and nirvana is one of these and a rainy day. This book is just as good as the movie and I shall plead for anyone who enjoys reading, mysteries and black and white film noir movies to read and watch Green for Danger, you will be rewarded.
I read this ages ago. I love this book! Love it. Christianna Brand is truly under-appreciated. And the film with Alastair Sim is marvelous. Please read the book and see the film. (I'm saying I read this in 1974, but that is kind of a guess. I read a lot of detective fiction that year.)
3,5 estrellas. Buena novela con la estructura de las novelas de detectives de los años 30-40 del siglo pasado.
A nice little mystery for October. Old fashioned and British. Just nice.
