https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/332631.Y
It has been a long time since I read the first volume in the award winning Y: The Last Man series, and it took me some time to fully memorize the previous happenings and plot twists before getting straight on track.
Second volume started quite well, but I did find myself being back to the reasons why this series failed to make a long lasting and positive impression, and why I felt this to be more problematic than entertaining look at the subject of "one man - millions of women".This, of course, is very heavy on social criticism towards gender issues and equality.
(aka bashing :D)[ok, so it's blurry but you get the point]Although the very first page made me cry in despair all over again [Yorick is trying to convince a woman to let him board the train to get out of Boston, but her reply is: With the shipping routes as fucked up as they are, the whole east coast's just about of supplies] because I simply disapprove of how the world is suddenly in so much chaos now that men are gone.
The second collected edition of Y: The Last Man comic continues where the unique storyline left off.
I was a bit more invested in this one than the first because the story is now familiar to me - I often find this to be the case with graphic novel series.
I am really enjoying the characters and I think they are what makes this story click.
I also like the combination of serious and funny - not all books are great at humor one second and gun to your head seriousness the next.
”Y: O Último Homem, Vol. 2: Ciclos” é o segundo volume de uma série de dez escrito por Brian K.
1971) e o desenhador José Marzán Jr..No Verão de 2002, uma praga de origem desconhecida destruiu todo o esperma, todos os fetos, todos os mamíferos com um cromossoma Y – com a aparente excepção de um jovem – Yorick Brown -, o último homem na Terra e o seu macaco de estimação – Ampersand.Yorick Brown, juntamente com a agente 355 e a Dra. Allison Mann, uma renomada especialista em clonagem, são incumbidos de uma tarefa.
OK!, um homem apaixonado nem sempre toma decisões racionais!
Espero que encontre o rumo no terceiro volume.
MAYBE I'm just spoiled by a glut of really great comics over the years, but while Y: The Last Man is still solid as hell, it's not quite rocking my boat yet.It's still slightly edgy, but I've read lots of comics that cursed and had nudity.
That's not what makes a great story.
A great story makes a great story.
In this volume, I'm reminded a lot of The Walking Dead in the early years.
And then again, maybe this is just a feature of the times.
All the later great comics, such as Saga, written by the same guy, had to have come from SOMEWHERE.
While not as good as volume 1, this was still entertaining. There's more world-building and Yorick's sister is in this one more. I hope the story gets more complicated, though. So far, it's pretty much just everybody wants to kill Yorick. Yorick is a little meh. Hopefully, his personality grows in the future. It was still a quick read and I am interested in finding out what happens next.
I want to know more about Agent 355 and Dr. Mann (I loved hearing a bit about their back story).
I don't even hate the guy, I just find it amusing to see his ego get deflated.My second problem is that even though most of the characters are women, I feel like I'm constantly reminded the author is a guy.
There are the period jokes, like how all the women in Marrisville get their periods at the same time and the town becomes "a bloody whirlpool of bitchiness." The Amazons are over the top in their man-hating, especially since it just doesn't seem worth it when there's only one man left.
The Amazons are coming!“In the summer of 2002, a plague of unknown origin destroyed every last sperm, fetus, and fully developed mammal with a Y chromosome – with the apparent exception of one young man and his pet, a male Capuchin monkey.”And so begins book two of Y: The Last Man, where there’s a whole lotta crazy going on.
Because these things have a tendency to synch up.Some observations:- Yorick may be handsome, but he’s kind of stupid.- As if it needs to be pointed out, the Amazon leader is Crazy.
Puno akcije i prevrta ali sve ukupna prica se jedva pomerila... sem poslednje stranice :)
LOVED IT!
You know, I think that I would enjoy this series more if it weren't so full of straw feminists.
Given what a horribly traumatic thing the plague must have been to live through, I can see a certain number of women going around the bend in this exact way.
But the execution just comes off as feminist bashing, especially since the only good women in the series so far are the ones willing to revolve their lives around the one remaining man.
It's a shame, because the characters are mostly interesting, but I don't think I'm enjoying this series enough to continue.
Loving the story so far. Glad (view spoiler)[Victoria got a fucking axe in her skull, finally (hide spoiler)].
*4.5 stars* Wow! This was REALLY good, I definitely enjoyed this more then the last trade.
and there it is, the built up, the tempo, the charisma of brian k. vaughan. From the slow built up in volume one, the series has taken a sharp turn with action, suspense and page turning drama!
So many are offended, and i get that however you should have stopped reading by volume 1, and also if all the women just grouped together and saved the world instantly it would be a quick read, so if you can't accept the basic premise of the plot then don't pick this up, you're gonna hate it!However i still love this, i find yorick hilarious still and lil ampersand is just too cute.
there's no food or electricity, instead they were like fuck it, let's go out murdering and stealing shit, all the women are pretty hardcore, that's way better than them trying to rebuild civilisation and some people are kinda missing that and wanting some serious story about how women would run the world as normal give or take fifteen minutes or so.
This series is shaping up to be one of my all time favorites.When we last left Yorick, he was trying to travel across the United States with the help of Agent 355 and Dr. Mann.
In the second collection, we are given a whole hell of a lot of character development and story progression.
You never get that feeling that Vaughn is trying to stretch the story out in a way that's not needed - length for the sake of it.It probably goes without saying, but the artwork is fantastic.
If you want to read this graphic novel, then you probably already read the first book of this series.
You haven't??!
What the hell are you doing here then, read the first one!
And can I just say how much I like the illustrations (is this the right expression for comics?) The penciller, colorist and inker are really talented…and the writer also, of course.
I was surprised when I saw how the relationship between Yorick and Hero changed.
Over all, I liked everything that happened in Marrisville.
A really nice touch were the original sketches at the end of the book, funny how they changed 355.
Odd series. I don't love it but it's interesting enough to keep me going.
The Amazons are the authors' completely un-subtle representations of everything that people (especially men, but even some women) fear about feminists: They want to castrate men (and not always figuratively)!
I find it incredibly frustrating that in a world where virtually all the men have died, the most interesting story that the authors could come up with was having all the women in the world chasing after/protecting/wanting to mate with/wanting to kill the last surviving male.
Criteria: Women seeking last man and monkey a few weeks late***It's been two months since I read Unmanned.
This was awesome once I remembered everything that was going on.
So what happens in this volume?They are attacked by a different organization that sets themselves apart from the Amazons.
After the attack they end up in some tiny town in Ohio.
But I won't spoil the fun details.We end with Yorick once again setting out for California, where he gushes over his girlfriend who I guessed early on didn't actually want to be with him anymore.
And I seriously hope I continue to love it.
Does anyone else think it's a little male-centered?
Yep, it seems a little silly in a story whose premise is that almost everyone with a y chromosome has passed away.
But still there's constant banter about men vs.
And the feminazi Amazons are out to get all men.So it's kind of interesting to turn the whole issue of female safety around and look at a situation where a man is constantly on thin ice safety-wise just because he's a man.
Yorick remains just as self-important and self-empowered as ever, though, which is not analogous and makes me less impressed with the let's-make-an-interesting-social-point thing.
Enjoyed this even more than the first. The series has a lot of Vaughan's trademark humour, whilst also offering different and interesting perspectives on what would happen if all men died (except one) and women inherited the earth. Though there are plenty of crazies in this post-men era, the story and themes are ultimately very feminist.
Review in Volume 10.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
The Amazons really don't work for me.
This series definitely isn't without its faults, but it's still super enjoyable.
I read this for my December 2017 TBR pick: “Read a graphic novel”.This was an amazing sequel and I can’t wait to read the next one! This story just keeps getting better and better. I was really impressed!
There's a very interesting premise here, which is different enough from the other "Last Man on Earth" stories I've read to pique my interest, but the final product is a bit too juvenile and ridiculous to keep it.In this volume, Yorick has made it a bit further into his journeys, accompanied by a doctor and a government agent, and he stumbles across a town that seems to be doing very well for itself.
Add to the mix a bit of an "I'm the last man on Earth, so every woman must want me" vibe, and it gets almost offensive.In the hands of a better writer, I think the premise could have held up to the promise and expectations I had for the series.
So goooood.
Story Things took a few turns in this volume that I didn't see coming. I was glad to get some explanation about some things, but overall I left with more questions than answers. I'm more invested in the series than I was after the first one. Artwork The artwork continues to be solid. I still don't like it as much as Saga, but it's still up there.
