https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41950.Quentins
I have mixed feelings about this one. There is a huge array of characters here, most of which are terrific. Unfortunately, though, the one whose story frames the rest is a complete nit. If only we could avoid her, this book would be beautiful!
My first ever Bunchy.novel...I think I'm in love....I thought it would be a bit of a light read when i started the ebook, it had me hooked till the last page...
To be honest, I can't believe I even finished this book.
I have decided that I have so many books that if I don't like a book by page150-200 I am giving up on it even though I feel a huge amount of guilt about not following through on things.
By the end of this book I was speed reading just to be finished.
If a book makes me feel like that then I should have given up on it a long time ago.
I have too many good books to waste my time on the bad ones.
This book is all about the daily life of a restaurant, “Quentin”, about its staff and customers. And… well… it was an "utterly boring read". A guy in his late 70’s, single/divorced, living alone would certainly enjoy this read. I can't believe, I even finished this book. :/
'Light and Fluffy' is not my usual genre, nor will it become so, but I sort of enjoyed my fictional visit to Dublin through Binchy's eyes.
It passed the time during a few long flights and long layovers this summer.Ella is the perfect child, teenager and adult.
As a film maker, she pitches the story of Dublin's favourite neighbourhood restaurant, Quentins, and is awarded sponsorship for the film.
She goes on to delve into the lives and loves of those who frequent the restaurant and those who are employed there.
Her previous lover returns on the scene and everyone awaits Ella's reaction.
thank you meave to introduce our food to all people around the world ///"I ll make sure Patrick has something from our poor imitation of Moroccan cuisine when you come, " she promised .
" we do a nice orange and cinnamon salad with a chicken tajine, but it's not quite exotic enough" .
"Probably quite exotic enough for Dublin " Quentin laughed ."you have been away for a long time " she said.
She talked to Patrick about it that night."you should have said a couscous" he complained ."he'd know we were trying at least" ." He's not coming home to examine the food"brenda said.
The sub plots were okay, but the main plot was almost unbearable.
Ella, the main character is a disgrace to all women.
She proved herself to be a weak, vulnerable character, and everyone babied her when she finally got what she deserved.
I screamed in frustration every time she pulled the "He still loves me" stunt.
He still loves you, and he's SO worth waiting for.
The only reason I kept reading was because the cover of the book was so cute.
Well, whoever said "You can't judge a book by it's cover" wasn't too far off.
Another fab book from Maeve Binchy. If you love Maeve then you'll love this - it has stories from EVERYONE in Dublin (lol) including loads of characters from other books. It's maybe a bit disjointed but it's split into different parts so you can know who's speaking.Yes, it's a bit dated and Maeve had several themes she liked to do in every book so it is pretty repetitive but I don't care about that. Pure comfort read.
Of course, Ella ends up being the person to fly to New York to represent the project in their quest for a funding grant, and planning the entire film.
Since the film will be about the lives of the customers that eat at the Dublin restaurant, Quentins, interspersed throughout the book are sections about those folks.
Also, nearly every character that has occurred in other Binchy books is here in some shape or form, and it’s nearly impossible to keep track of this cast of thousands.
I found myself flipping back and forth, trying to identify just who this person was again, until I just gave up and skipped over those parts.
I always considered this book as the sequel from Scarlett Feather which I also reread every couple of years for the same reason.Rereading them is like meeting old friends and though we talked about the same old familiar things, we still found them funny, adorable or sad.
:)Many people don't like the way the book was written because it feels fleeting.
It feels somewhat like my favourite movie, Love, Actually.
MB has a way of writing that I can only describe as peaceful and witty.
Just feel oddly peaceful when I read her words.
This is my first Maeve Binchy book and I was pretty pleased for the most part. I was finally drawn to her because of my affinity for all things Irish. There are enough stories and fully-fleshed out characters to keep one entertained throughout. However, the main character, Ella, does such a disservice to womankind as I have ever met in literature. Trust me though, the larger story that unfolds (most of which she doesn't appear in) is a real gem. I definitely would read another Binchy book that stays away from such off-putting characters.
This was a re-read for me. Like going to reunion with friends, you are no sooner there than you feel as if you've never been apart. I love Maeve Binchy's writing and would heartily recommend her books to readers of contemporary fiction.
Lovely story as usual from Maeve Binchy, always a good feel factor.Ella Brady is the perfect child, no bother to her parents, until she meets Don Richardson, who takes her and everyone else he is in contact with for a ride.
Set in contemporary Dublin, Quentins tells the story of Ella Brady, a young woman who has fallen for The Wrong Man. The tale is both universal and timeless, but this time around there is the added elements of tax fraud, hiding out in Spain and The Mystery of the Laptop Computer.
I would recommend this book to readers who are looking for a good story without a lot of heavy elements or objectionable material.While this book is set in contemporary Dublin, it is a little on the quaint side.
To read about both Dubliners and immigrants both, I would recommend The Deportees and Other Stories by Roddy Doyle.
Is it possible to tell the story of a generation and a city through the history of a restaurant?
She wants to film a documentary abuot Quentins that will capture the spirit of Dublin from the 1970s to the present day.
After all the restaurant saw the people of a city become more confident in everything from their lifestyles to the food that they chose to eat.
As Ella uncovers more and more of what has gone on at Quentins, she begins to question the wisdom of capturing it all in a documentary.
The characters didn't seem to have much depth and the story was a little boring.
I have a really hard time relating to main characters that enter into extramarital affairs.
Maybe that was my main issue.
But then around page 150 it picked up and I started to love/hate characters where appropriate :-) I finally began to like and care about the main character, Ella, whom I hated at the beginning of the novel.For the most part I enjoyed the short stories offered between the events of the main story line more than the main story line itself.
I read the last 150 pages in 1.5 hours.
It's a sequel to three of Maeve's books without really being a sequel at all. It also serves as a prologue to the formation of the best restaurant in Maeve Binchy's Dublin.Pros:True to Maeve, it was an absolute joy to read. Cons:I wanted less Ella, and more stories. I honestly didn't care much for any of the (new) main characters. I wanted more Brenda, I wanted more backstories, to see how Quentins affected more people. That being said, I still loved it.
I prefered her other books. I don't know why...This one just did not have any magic for me.
These characters have connections (or several of them) with the characters in Evening Class, which I read earlier this year.
It took me a while to click, but I did eventually, even before the really obvious Signora.I’ve enjoyed this novel just as much as I enjoyed the other.
I love her people and I love the way she winds their stories around.
This one revolves round a busy restaurant called Quentins, bringing our key character, Ella Brady, into its environs really beautifully as a child taken there by her parents, and then later due to friendship and work and love.
The audiobook is fantastic--lots of lovely brogues. It's a unique way of telling a story--characters are introduced separately, then they come together. I really enjoyed it, as it's a little slice of life. I wish it would have continued on.
Love Maeve Binchy's style of story telling, have now read this book 4 times and still love it :)
If you haven't read Scarlet Feather, read that one first, as this is the sequel. Fun read 3.5 stars :-)
Enjoyable read about a group of friends in Dublin all interacting one way or another through the restaurant Quentins. Got a nice sense of the Irish personalities.
Echt weer een mooi Binchy boek. Verrassende karakters en zelfs spannend deze keer.
Finally finished this book. I had so many issues with the main character of the book & the ending ... *sigh* I would not recommend this book... in fact the only reason it's not 1 star is because I reserve those got books I don't finish. Others may like it & there were parts that were ok but at the end it just seemed pointless to me.
Maeve Binchy makes you feel right at home with her books.
But while I like this one much better than "circle of friends", I do have a hard time with Maeve Binchy's stories.
For short stories, Maeve Binchy would be stellar.
But its just really difficult for me to keep reading a novel with multiple stories that ends up being 400+ pages long.
As much as I enjoy the coziness of the writing, I quickly lose interest with the characters and find myself longing to watch a docu or movie on Ireland life.
Rather than dig thru the 400 pages of novel.Plus the main character is stupid.
I picked up this book after Maeve Binchy's death and after hearing that she was considered the JK Rowlingof Ireland.
Kaylen and Bill were vacationing in Ireland so it seemed like good karma; Maeve wrote many books (like Debbie Macomber) so there were many titles to choose from...
After muddling through girl is swept off her feet by a handsome, rich man that turns out not to be who she thinks he is and gets her heart broken she starts a new adventure leading to a new love story, no cooking or recipes, no descriptions of Ireland......
This book killed my unqualified love of Binchy books.Stopped reading at page 37, the story was going the way of Circle of Friends.
Ella is the 'good' one because she has only slept with a few men by her early 20's and she begins a major romance with a married man.
Her parents have a disfunctional relationship with her and each other and offer no moral guidance.
Her best friend constantly has one night stands.
I'm not interested in investing my time in immoral filth, especially when it is poising as a charming, innocent Binchy novel.
Typically Binchy. For the most part, I've always liked her stories - I love that there are always so many characters to follow, and I like how their storylines are woven together. Quentins was no different - it was also nice to see names pop up from some of her other books (Tara Road, Scarlet Feather). That being said - this was definitely her most predictable novel, and there were a lot of aspects that I just didn't think were believable. Oh, and the last 5 sentences of the book were some of the cheesiest lines I have ever read.
This book was okay. Just okay. It was the first Maeve Binchy novel that I've read since Circle of Friends back when I was in high school. Maeve Binchy has a huge fan base and I can see why--the two books that I've read are entertaining, sweet, happy-ending books perfect for cozying up to a fire with. But, honestly, I never felt that the main character, Ella Brady, was very REAL. I just didn't connect to her in a human way so the book only made it surface deep for me--if that makes any sense.
