https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/186371.The_Short_Reign_of_Pippin_IV
Límpido e conciso como Steinbeck costuma ser, balanceia com leveza algumas das suas preocupações sociais e humanitárias de sempre. É um pequeno livro,tardio na sua carreira,que nem por sombras desmerece a sua tremenda obra. Não sou particularmente sensível ao humor,no sentido em que as peripécias mais ou menos pitorescas não me fazem rir. Mas a mordacidade,a sátira e a delicadeza perpassam todo o livro (que se lê num esfregar de olhos)e são óptimos condimentos. Gostei. Muito
This is Steinbeck's only satirical work and if I may say so, he pulled it off quite nicely. It's a political piece, a subject in which he is knowledgeable, but instead of the darker, dramatic side of the topic that he has always portrayed, John gives us the scenario in a way that we can laugh at. Which, to me, is the only way we can sometimes survive the bullshit.

in what clearly must have been an enjoyable writing experience for him, the short reign of pippin iv: a fabrication marks steinbeck's only work of political satire. with characters and a plot reminiscent of italo calvino's fiction, this short novel makes a caricature of the french revolution, and, more broadly, of politics in general. while lacking in the moral impetus so prominent in his other works, pippin may well be one of steinbeck's more humorous books. "i've never understood america," sai
in what clearly must have been an enjoyable writing experience for him, the short reign of pippin iv: a fabrication marks steinbeck's only work of political satire.
it's democratic or republican, doesn't make much difference, and then there's corporation government.""they get along together, these governments?""sometimes," said tod.
you see, the elected government pretends to be democratic, and actually it is autocratic.
the corporation governments pretend to be autocratic and they're all the time accusing the others of socialism.
they hate socialism.""so i have heard," said pippin."well, here's the funny thing, sir.
the thing they're most afraid of is socialism, and at the same time they themselves are socialist states."
Steibeck’in gerçekçi eserlerine alışan benim gibiler için bu fantastik kurgu biraz farklı geldi. Hiciv ağırlıklı hatta zaman zaman seviye sorunu yaşayan mizah tarzıyla başta Fransa ve Amerika olmak üzere global bir demokrasi/ yönetim eleştirisi yapan J. Steinbeck esas olarak kapitalist yaşam biçimi ve tekellerle dalga geçiyor. Realist romanlarından sonra biraz zayıf geldi açıkcası.
It's delicate, precious even, like the protagonist. A slim touching satire, not as shocking as some other satires like Animal Farm but calmer and pleasanter. An accidental king of France tries to be the King of France. Deep in parts and humorous in large, you should give it a read.
Steinbeck's only work of political satire, and according the Introduction by Robert and Katharine Morsberger, the least known of his novels, "The Short Reign of Pippin IV" is by turns playful and philosophical. While Steinbeck gently chastises human beings for their "tendency...to distrust good fortune," he cannot conceal his deep and abiding faith in humanity; a quality that is unmistakably Steinbeckian and one that characterizes all of his works.NB: Nebraska @ UCLA. Go BRUINS!
A pesar de las reseñas que había leído, esperaba (quizá sería mejor decir deseaba) una novela ligera, fresca y divertida, casi sin más trascendencia que el puro entretenimiento.
No ha sido así.Me he encontrado una novela bien escrita y con un claro trasfondo de crítica social, que oscila entre una fina ironía y un sarcasmo gamberro y que a veces incluso tiende al absurdo.
De una manera divertida no deja títere con cabeza.Me lo he pasado pipa imaginándome toda la historia como una película de los Monthy Phyton en sus mejores momentos (tipo la vida de Brian) e incluso como una "epopeya musical" de mis queridos Luthiers.
My musings on The Short Reign of Pippin IV by John Steinbeck.
This was a different type of Steinbeck for me, having read both Of Mice and Men and Cannery Row in the last year or two, I got a feel for the general atmosphere of those novels.
This political satire has an entirely different feel to it.
A Political satire is perfect in that regard for me.
However, I can not speak of particular points in this story as I don't know the structure of which Steinbeck was making jest.
No, Sister, I am not brave.
I love Steinbeck!
His only political satire, the blurb says.It took me a week or more to read this little novella.
I kept putting off beginning to read, and then would fall asleep.
only reading ten to twenty pages at a time, until the final third, which went pretty quickly.
I didn't recognize the prose as Steinbeck.
It's mildly amusing in places and it has a reasonably happy ending, which, by the way, also isn't particularly characteristic of Steinbeck.
I'm glad this is not the first work of Steinbeck I had read because I might have dismissed him as being nothing special.
As I've continued to lap up the more obscure works in Steinbeck's catalogue, I've skipped this one more than once at the library.
It just didn't look anything like a Steinbeck book, and I didn't want to be disappointed in my favorite author, especially after Burning Bright.
Finally, as I was hurriedly packing for my recent work trip, I made a quick trip to the library, and after not finding the first 5 books I wanted, I gave in and went with this one, fully expecting to be disappointed.I was not.I was right about one thing -- this is not a Steinbeck book.
Clever satire on the nature of politics, royalty, marriage, youth, and Franco/American relations.
It's amazing that Steinbeck is able to fit so much in this short light-hearted affair.
But, hey, that is why I like Steinbeck so much.
He just seems to get so much out of simple words and simple sentences.
This little tale is about an ordinary man that reluctantly accepts the throne of King of France.
He struggles with what this means and what his powers actually are and how he should use them.
Ultimately he follows his heart (and an old man by a lake) and does what he thinks is right.
This is Steinbeck's only satire as well as the only book where he doesn't write about the 'every-man.' The combination doesn't work very well. Steinbeck is at his best when he's writing about people agonizing over their place in the world in a straight forward and sincere way. The satire is not executed as well as other notable authors and you never connect with Pippin the way you connect with all of Steinbeck's other main characters. A must read if you're a huge fan of the author, but a pass for anyone else.
I had to keep checking the name of the author on this one. Having read and loved 'Of Mice and Men' and 'Grapes of Wrath' I could not believe that Steinbeck had this sort of book in him.High-end political satire with some genuine laugh-out-loud moments. It makes you utter his name in the same breath as Wilde and Wodehouse. A real little gem, that works every bit as much today in its mocking of political spheres and foreign policies as it did when written.
An interesting political satire. This is my fourth Steinbeck novel in a short time, ranging over a great deal of different styles. This one was the funniest, satirizing nit just the French, but also Americans, British, and the people of many other nations. Most of the story is moved by plot and ideas, rather than character, but King Pippin is not a flat character. He wants to do well at the job he never wanted to do.
Steinbeck altfel. Altfel cum? Amuzant în principal. Urme de umor se găsesc și în alte scrieri ale sale, însă nu la același nivel satiric ca aici. Un deliciu. Și nu pot să nu remarc cum în scurta poveste (cam cât domnia lui Pepin), Steinbeck își pune semnătura clasică: crează niște personaje memorabile. Nu înțeleg de ce a fost această scriere aleasă ca reprezenativă pentru colecția Nobel, dar apreciez curajul editurii.
This one is great, light, and very entertaining.It's worth 4 starts because of the comic story, the dialogue, the parallel with other character's life and the political satire.It's not worth the 5th start because it could have been so much more, as it feels a bit rushed in it's current state.
رمانی طنز با زمینه ای سیاسی به قلم توانمند جان اشتاین بک ، که سعی کرده است با قلم طنز و البته آغشته به سیاست ، وضعیت فرانسه و تا حدی آمریکا را به نقد بکشاند ، شاید بهترین توصیف را رضا امیرخانی از کتاب داشته باشد : "بخوانيد تا ببينيد شكستنِ آرمانهای يك چپِ آمريكایی را. مانيفستِ شكست"پیشنهاد میکنم در سبد مطالعتان قراردهید
رمانی طنز با زمینه ای سیاسی به قلم توانمند جان اشتاین بک ، که سعی کرده است با قلم طنز و البته آغشته به سیاست ، وضعیت فرانسه و تا حدی آمریکا را به نقد بکشاند ، شاید بهترین توصیف را رضا امیرخانی از کتاب داشته باشد : "بخوانيد تا ببينيد شكستنِ آرمان‌های يك چپِ آمريكایی را. مانيفستِ شكست"پیشنهاد میکنم در سبد مطالعتان قراردهید
(Actually not so ordinary; he doesn't work and lives in a mansion off the rent of some vineyards somewhere.) He's intended to be a figurehead, but wants to accomplish something.
His program is frightfully radical (actually it's pretty tame liberalism.) The blurbs call the book a satirical comedy, but it doesn't have enough "bite" to be satire; more like a farce.
After Grapes of Wrath and In Dubious Battle, or even his more comic works like Cannery Row, this is a real decline; and most unlike Steinbeck, the characters are not well-drawn.
A Steinbeck that had previously escaped me, thoroughly enjoyed this clever and quirky little book. A very relevant comment on the role of monarchy.
A thoroughly enjoyable exercise in Steinbeck trying something different, which I'd call deep satire. If he didn't set the bar so high with his best books, I'd rate this one higher, but it does have a one-chord feel. I recommend it, but not as among the first five books of Steinbeck to read.
The subject of this novel is politics, and I hate politics, so it was a hard slog for me to get through it. It did become a little more interesting in the second half, and I liked the ending, so I bumped it up from one star for that.
Disappointing. And I really like Steinbeck.
It is remarkable that this dated piece of inconsequential fluff was written by the same man who penned The Grapes of Wrath.
Steinbeck's take on French Politics. Oh, those wacky French.
the short reign of pippin iv: a fabrication, 1957, john steinbeck...1028 ratings, 70 reviews, paperback, 131 pages, penguin classics, dedicated:to my sister estherw/an introduction by robert morsberger and katharine morsberger, their notes, works consulted list...the morsbergers are a part of that set defined by steinbeck, quoted in their introduction: "...can and do remain in complete ignorance of any reality--a highly desirable state, i am beginning to believe." and that's all i'm going to say about the matter of the introduction, royalty, the elect, the elite...who know exactly what the facts is...although they do present some facts along with the attendant fashionable ideology (read it...and weep)...about steinbeck, this story, other stories and so forth, so on.story begins:number one avenue de parigny in paris is a large, square house of dark and venerable appearance.
General Steels & General Mechanics) de bir devlet gibi davranıp hükümete bir katkısı onların istemi olmadan olamayacağı ve Trump’ın çıkıpta o özel sektörden fikirden tutun ülküsüne kadar çalışmalarına kadar bir şey koparamadığını ve bu nedenle de Amerika hükümetinin hem Anonim Hükümet hem de delegasyonlu olarak öbür şirketlerin istemi dışında bir alışverişin olmayacağı ve bu özel şirket kümelenmelerinin kapitalizmi andırmasına karşılık grupların komünizm gibi işçiliği ön plana çıkarıp kapitalist bir yaklaşımla çalıştırıp paylaşımda sadece o fabrikayı veya herhangi bir birim-üreteni içerisinde bulunanlara paylaştırması ve bunun dışında istemli derecelerde paylaşım hakkı tıpkı ticaret gibi anlaşılmaktadır.
It is a satirical story that tells of how a seemingly ordinary French gentleman, Pippen Heristal, is instated as the King of France, albeit for a short period.
I have seen it questioned whether it was a satire more on France or America – I would say neither, rather it as a satire on politics in general.
The gentle mocking of the French and American people and systems is there, but it is the duplicity, shallowness and self-serving nature of politics that Steinbeck truly mocks……which is still very pertinent today.The scene at the Elysee Palace, is hilarious, bordering on farce, as it conveys the superficiality of politicians and how out of touch they are with what should be their ‘raison d’etre’.
A good read.
This charming book is a departure from Steinbeck's usually dark and foreboding world.
I didn't need to fully understand Pippin's ridiculous and radical daughter Clotilde or get deep into the psyche of his debonair Uncle Charlie or the seemingly surface relationship he has with his wife Marie.
Steinbeck's style engages me enough so that I am left to ponder what choices I would make if forced to manage the unmanageable.
Yet the bare-bones method left me unencumbered by details that would force me to step specifically into Pippin's shoes and justify my choices based on his character.
In this short piece of political satire, the French government decides to bring the monarchy back.
As a constitutional monarch, there isn’t really much useful he can do, and he finds himself obliged to live uncomfortably in a palace, and put up with an infinite number of hangers-on, all who have inherited positions that suddenly are providing them with money.
As does an old man who lives by a lake, who Pippin meets on one of his escapes from the palace, which he manages disguised as a common man, riding a motor scooter.
People and politics really haven’t changed much.
