https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79929.The_Rising_Sun
In this opening chapter, Toland briskly (sometimes too briskly) outlines the background that fomented gekokujo: the fall of monarchies after World War I; the competition between democracy, socialism, and Communism that came in its wake; the rapid westernization of Japan (and the resulting scandals and corruption); Japan’s population explosion; and the inevitable blowback by conservatives and nationalists.
The only real criticism I have with The Rising Sun is in Toland’s handling of the Second Sino-Japanese War. Part of the reason I bought this book was to learn more about this forgotten theater.
For this reason alone, The Rising Sun is a touchstone of World War II writing.
It focuses upon the Pacific theater and upon battles, the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and finally it explains in detail why it took so long for the Japanese to surrender.
I felt it was balanced, neither pro-Western nor pro-Eastern.Keep in mind - that I should be able to read a book from start to finish that so closely follows battle after battle is pretty darn amazing.
I personally think it is a book better read on paper than listened to.
Maybe you are fluent in Japanese names, but I am not.
What do I think on closing the book?
Rumors that Roosevelt knew beforehand of the Japanese intention to attack Pearl Harbor are discounted.Most particularly, however, I liked how Toland used, and defined, a number of Japanese terms and expressions, employing this as one means to get at the Japanese mindset, something few in the U.S. government or military understood.Like the original Tora, Tora motion picture, coproduced by citizens of both countries, or like Clint Eastwood's recent diptych on one battle of the war, this book is unusually balanced and is to be highly recommended.Now I just have to find the second volume as this one ends with Guadalcanal, arguably the turning point of the Pacific War.--I have since found this edition, a combination of both volumes, and have given the first volume of the other edition away to a Japanese friend for her reactions.
Good relations continued with America’s support for Japan in the Russo Japanese War. American Investment Bank Kuhn, Loeb and Co. financed much of the war for Japan.
And in 1905 President Theodore Roosevelt won the Nobel Peace prize for brokering the end of the Russo Japanese War. Also, in doing so saved Japan from economic collapse.
England had already been at war with Germany at the time of Japan’s attempted diplomacy.
The Allies learned of the coming Japanese attack and planned a brilliant counter by surprising Japan with a bombing raid on Japan’s homeland.
Mr. Toland describes the compassion American soldiers had on Japanese prisoners of war.
At least initially, everyone except a few warmongers in the Japanese military did everything they could to avoid it.Unfortunately, diplomatic efforts were for naught, and the Emperor was eventually persuaded to give his blessing to declare war.Admiral Yamamoto knew very well that Japan had no hope of winning a prolonged war, which was why when war happened and he was put in charge of the Japanese fleet, he planned what he hoped would be quick, devastating knock-out punches - Pearl Harbor and Midway - that would sink the US back on its heels and persuade the Americans to negotiate an honorable peace before things went too far.This was unlikely after Pearl Harbor.
Extensive, well researched and readable, covering the timeframe from the invasion of Manchuria and China to the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.After the Japanese invasion in Manchuria, the book starts of with the efforts of the American ambassador and the Foreign Minister of Japan to try to prevent war due to the boycot that the Western powers have established.
For example the American successes against the Japanese merchant fleet is only sparsely mentioned, while in my eyes this was one of the deciding factors.For someone who needs a good introduction for the War in the Pacific, this is a good introduction and highly reccomended.
Mammoth history of Japan's involvement in the Second World War. Toland seeks to emulate the sweep, if not the editorial tone of Shirer's Rise and Fall of the Third Reich, mixing high-level cabinet deliberations and diplomacy with military strategy and the on-the-ground experience of Japanese soldiers and sailors.
Toland's portrait shows a Japanese leadership eager to exploit China but agonizing over their decision to attack America and Britain, the division among Japan's military and political leadership, and their wholehearted commitment once war's actually declared.
Toland relishes details, from the importance of mistranslation in deteriorating diplomatic relations, to the slang and attitudes of Japanese troops.
In avoiding these pit falls, he has not only written a fascinating, highly readable book (especially considering it's length), but he has set a standard by which I think all history books should be held.The Cold War lens is when writers apply the Cold War--the ideologies, cultures and people that were at war for decades--to explain most 20th century events.
Tolland does an admirable job of capturing these greater forces, and in so doing he not only creates a fascinating, readable tome on modern Japanese history, but he also sets a standard for the care and seriousness to which all history writing should aim.I originally picked up this book because I wanted to read about the Japanese in Indonesia.
At Pearl Harbour they believed they had accomplished that.
There were always substantially more Japanese deaths than American ones in most of the conflicts.John Toland’s varying montages of the agony of battles, of prisoners of war, of the victims of fire-bombing are all very poignant.
I feel at times that Mr. Toland is too lenient with Hirohito’s performance; he could have prevented Pearl Harbour and the subsequent Japanese onslaught in Asia.
Nevertheless this book is a great accomplishment and presents the war, with all its’ detailed planning, from the Japanese viewpoint.
This is one of the best books on Pacific War especially from a Japanese point of view that I have read.
A detailed description of the Japanese aggression (in short form) and collapse (in long form) in World War Ii, told from the perspective of "inside the Japanese governmental and military command structures.
The book tries to give a balanced account of events, giving perspectives of the major players (Japanese, American, Russian, Chinese and British), as well as fascinating insight into the political/diplomatic maneuvering that lead to key strategic, political, and military decisions in the war and their outcomes.
This is a must read for anyone interested in the second world war.
The book is well worth the time and effort.Toland begins with the Japanese invasion of Manchuria and he does not sugar coat the barbarity of that conflict.
I found it fascinating the Japanese warlords thought that it might even be possible to conquer India and meet up with the Nazis in the Caucuses.
The suffering of the civilians are balanced by the what exactly President Truman was trying to accomplish and the information he had in front of him predicting an unbelievably bloody invasion of the home islands.It is also telling that a palace coup nearly imprisoned the Emperor and forced a continuation of the war.
The definitive source regarding the view of WWII from the Japanese perspective. An amazing amount of insight and information. Cannot recommend highly enough for those interested in WWII.
The last WWII book to really do that for me was James Bradley's "Flyboys" which I thought was the fairest treatment of the war in the Pacific I had read up until now.
After reading Bradley's book I became aware for the first time that there was another side to WWII that I had never heard or read about and it was a legitimate point of view.
What really struck me was the aspect of WWII as it affected the native populations in the countries where the war was fought.
This book is a must read for any student of history or any reader that enjoys reading about WWII.
“America’s greatest mistake in World War II, I believe, was in failing to recognize that she was fighting two different kinds of war simultaneously: one in Europe against another Western people and philosophy, Nazism, and one in Asia which was not only a struggle against an aggressive nation fighting for survival as a modern power but an ideological contest against an entire continent.” 138“And a moral policeman’s lot is not a happy one, particularly when his own morality is in question.” 145“The Americans were inspired by three motives: a desire to trade, spread the Gospel to the yellow pagans and export the ideals of 1776.” 1306“With the seizure of Manchuria and the invasion of North China, the gulf widened as America denounced Japanese aggression with increasingly forceful words.
Old, reread after O'Reily's book, Toland has more from the Japanese side. Can see O'Reily used it as a reference. Especially the Russian-Manchuria part at end of WW2. Good history book, required reading for this generation.
No one will deny that there's an enormous amount of information here detailing every major battle of the Pacific War from Pearl Harbor to the end and then some, but its also important to note how that information is organized.
The book finds its beginning with the 1936 coup attempt in Japan and then moves quickly into the lead up to Pearl Harbor.
You do feel the suffering of war here, from the civilian and the military perspective, you even get a sense of how distressed and apprehensive the Japanese command was, both in the lead up to the war, and obviously towards the end.
I would've liked more information on the trials of Japanese war criminals, but I'll have to find something else for that.
This account was written without bias showing all the ugliness of Imperial Japanese conquests, but also describing the often unknown internal struggle between the ultranationalist/militarists and the many who sued for peace from the beginning until the end.
It's sad that the actions of a few were able to spread like wildfire bringing death to so many.I was particularly surprised to learn that Japan had asked Russia to negotiate peace talks between the US before the first A-bomb, but the Russian government ignored these requests.It's refreshing to read a historical novel that is void of opinion.
In between it is a story of hubris in which a strong and vibrant people allow faulty leaders to guide them from a dominant role in the far East (in which they held Manchuria, Korea and other territories like the Caroline, the Marshall, the Palau or the Mariana Islands) to life in a militarily emasculated occupied territory, with about three million less people than would otherwise have been the case, and near-universal hatred in many neighboring countries, notably China.
Japan adopted All-American values like crushing "lesser" people, gobbling resources for exploitation, and providing economic opportunity for a burgeoning population at home.
Sounds like good people.
Really, there were many millions of acres of untapped land, minerals, and ocean views begging for good management in southeast Asia.It was Japan's drive for oil to fuel this ambition that gave the U.S. an opportunity to intercede.
The U.S. blockade triggered a frenzy of diplomatic efforts to carve up Asia to both country's liking.
At great risk, the attack on Pearl Harbor was launched and a nation's destiny was carved in stark terms.
Excellent narrative history of Japan's experience in World War II, examining the issues and circumstances leading to Japan's involvement, strategic battles and encounters throughout, and the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Toland offers writing here that ought to please all readers of history, whether it be to gain factual or strategic knowledge or to get a socio/psychological understanding of Japanese thinking and culture that contributed to its involvement in the war and the choices major Japanese officials and strategists made throughout.
Black and white pictures we have seen of the mushroom cloud over Hiroshima do not do the horror justice, and I must admit that I am conflicted regarding Truman's cavalier attitude toward the decision to drop the bombs.
is not mentioned nor most of the other war crimes committed against occupied civilians or western POWs. This makes me find it a bit hard to trust Toland's characterization of Emperor Hirohito, who (as far as I can tell) was the subject of a positive propaganda machine after the war, to ease the transition into American occupation.Still, there were numerous interesting stories about the war (some of which are insanely disgusting), so if you like these sorts of personal anecdotes, it's an interesting enough book.
The confused, leaderless Japanese government that led the nation from one blunder to the next almost tripped and fell into conflict with the largest industrial power in the world; I wanted a broader view of how something like this could be possible.This book does not disappoint: it begins with the 2/26 incident, when hardline Army officers attempted to overthrow the government, and traces the subsequent years of slow shift to radicalism and aggression on the part of the Japanese government.
Written from the viewpoint of the Japanese, the book explains the Japanese thought process leading to war with the US, Britain, and the Netherlands and finishes at the US victory at Guadalcanal.
I learned quite a bit from this book.
Most of the book is dedicated to the period from 1936 leading up to Pearl Harbor.
I find that much dedication to laying the groundwork for war very intriquing since most books I read cover only a small portion of the pregame festivities.
The rest of the book covers Japanese decision making that led to Midway and Guadalcanal.
It was enjoyable.
It was nice to see things from the Japanese perspective.
If you can follow the logic, you can see one of the huge problems of nationalism.
There isn't too much focus on Japanese atrocities, that is well covered in a great deal of the literature, neither is it glossed over.
It is the challenge of the study of history to see these conundrums, and know how badly they will come out, yet not seeing a way out, given the conditions of the time.
I wished he had spent more time talking about the Japanese preparations to defend the homeland.
A brilliant, excellently written book.
If I'd read this, I probably wouldn't have bothered going back to have a look at many of the others that I read while in search of a book like this (Though I'm glad I did).
The book reads like a novel, and is just as enthralling.
However, it doesn't have much to say about the darker aspects of the Japanese War Effort, and definitely takes a more pro - Japanese position on many of the events leading up to the war.
Still, despite this an excellent read, though I wish it had found more to say about Yamashita and Homma.
John Toland recounts the history of the Pacific War from the years leading to the attack on Pearl Harbor until Japan’s surrender to the Allies in magnificent detail. His copious research and numerous interviews with individuals ranging from the lowly foot soldier to the highest levels of military and civilian authority results in a narrative history with true epic sweep. Toland has a novelist's eye that recreates events in riveting fashion and an analytical mind that explains strategy and motivation with great clarity. I cannot recommend this book highly enough.
I'm really torn judging this book. On one hand it is extremely well sourced and I was amazed by the variety of information and dialogues here. It was especially worthwhile to read about the road to war between Japan and USA and the last days before Japan's surrender. On the other hand, some of the personal stories were boring for me and kept me from following the big picture, in which I was interested. Still- a fantastic read.
While perhaps too detailed for some and too American-oriented for others, Toland's study has stood the test of time. It - in my view anyway - is truly balanced and incredibly detailed. It's insights are valid, it's judgements insightful. Not a quick, nor simple, read but certainly a worthy use of your time.
A wonderful story of the Pacific side of World War II. Toland tells a story from the point of view of officers, generals, and common soldiers on both sides.
Much information, Toland tends to white wash Japanese war crimes.
