https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/236893.The_Black_Swan
When Priscilla Harradine meets buccaneer Charles de Bernis on the ship that's carrying her back to England, the appearance of a notorious pirate puts her safety entirely in the hands of her new acquaintance.There are some well-described fights, but the tension in this one comes as much from the suspense and uncertainty of the situation as from typical pirate story action.
His goal became apparent early on, but the steps in his plan were a slower reveal and that kept things interesting.As usual, all the main characters here over the top.
The point of these books, after all, is larger than life characters being awesome in cool historical settings, and on those terms, The Black Swan delivers.
This hit the spot for swashbuckling adventure.
Swashbuckling and preening.
The interest lies in watching Monsieur de Bargis nimbly navigate minefields in dealing with pirates, officious boors, and everyone who keeps threatening bodily injury and death to the small group of people he is trying to save under very trying circumstances.
One of which is the aforementioned boor who we love to hate.
Of course, there is a love interest but it is handled in the most delicate way which was most enjoyable to watch unfold.Free on the Kindle.
Ahhh...the good old days when women won the hearts of men with femininity and brains (not half naked bodies and slutty come-ons). Life was just as real, intense and dangerous or more so. I love reading books that have wonderful characters and great story lines. Wish there was more of these "old-fashioned" stories being written in contemporary novels.
কি নেই এই বইটাতে! সুনদরী তরুণী পরিসিলা, বহু গুণে গুণানবিত যুবক দো বাখনি, অদভুত মানসিকতার মেজর সযানডস, সকল খারাপের সঙগী দসযু টম লীচ, রহসযময়ি জাহাজ বলযাক সোয়ান, পদে পদে খুন খারাপি, সবরণে ভরপুর জাহাজ আর আছে পাতায় পাতায় রোমাঞচ!
কি নেই এই বইটাতে! সুন্দরী তরুণী প্রিসিলা, বহু গুণে গুণান্বিত যুবক দো বাখনি, অদ্ভুত মানসিকতার মেজর স্যান্ডস, সকল খারাপের সঙ্গী দস্যু টম লীচ, রহস্যময়ি জাহাজ ব্ল্যাক সোয়ান, পদে পদে খুন খারাপি, স্বর্ণে ভরপুর জাহাজ আর আছে পাতায় পাতায় রোমাঞ্চ!
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Fun summer read. Everyone likes a good pirate story. A little predictable. Ok, a lot predictable. But still fun.
গলপের সময়টা জলদসযুতার সূরয অসত যাবার পথে। বৃটিশ সরকার মরগানের সাথে হাত মিলিতে সকল দসযুদের নিকেষ করলেও লীচ বাকি থেকে যায়। ওই সময়ের গলপ এটি। গলপের নায়ক ফরাসী যুবক দো বাখনি। এক দুরদানত, দুঃসাহসী ফরাসী যুবক। যেমন তীকষণ বুদধি, তেমনি আকরষণীয় চেহারা। সযার হেনরী মরগানের সবচেয়ে পরিয় সহকারীদের একজন। তবে সে কিনা মরগানের দল ছেড়ে দিয়ে ইউরোপে ফেরত চলছে বাকি জীবনটা শানতিতে পার করে দেওয়ার ইচছেয়। অনতত সে তাই বলছে জাহাজে উঠে সবাইকে। পরিসিলা। বাবা অঢেল সমপদ রেখে মারা যাওয়ার পর সেও ফিরছে ইংলযানডে। জাহাজে দেখা হয়ে য
গল্পের সময়টা জলদস্যুতার সূর্য অস্ত যাবার পথে। বৃটিশ সরকার মরগানের সাথে হাত মিলিতে সকল দস্যুদের নিকেষ
দো বাখনিতে মুগধ! ^_^
দো বাখনিতে মুগ্ধ! ^_^
Leute, ein heißer (aber ein alter) britischer Major und ein heißer französischer Pirat kämpfen um die Gunst einer 25jährigen? Leute.
This is my first encounter with Rafael Sabatini, who I know is a much respected author of many other classics of adventure.If you are looking for an over the top, roller coaster ride of pirate exploits, The Black Swan is not that book.
Instead, the Black Swan is a more character-driven story that unfolds at a slower, seemingly more realistic, pace.The story concerns the return to England of Priscilla Harradine, the daughter of the recently deceased governor of the Leeward Islands in the West Indies, and his second-in-command, Major Bartholomew Sands.
All in all, The Black Swan is a very enjoyable story.
An Rafael Sabatinis Piratenroman "Captain Blood" schafft es "Der schwarze Schwan" bei weitem nicht heran.
Die Handlung bleibt gerade einmal so spannend, dass man weiterliest, obwohl die Charaktere - egal ob Piratenkapitän Tom Leach, sein Gegenspieler Charles de Bernis, Major Sand oder Miss Priscilla Harradine - fad und irgendwie gekünstelt wirken.
Dadurch die Hauptakteure den größten Teil der Geschichte auf der Insel Matilda verbringen, fehlt dem Ganzen noch zusätzlich ein mitreißendes Maß an Bewegung.
Die Kampfhandlungen beschränken sich auf das einmalige Entern und einem interessanten Fecht-Duell.
- Nachdem ich "Captain Blood" mit so viel Begeisterung verschlungen habe, enttäuscht mich eher dieses seiner Werke.
Well, "The Black Swan" has all the strengths of a typical Sabatini novel...suave, sardonic hero and feisty, forthright heroine...enough buffoons and villains to act as foils...decently-paced and inventive plot...and great language (English was, like, Sabatini's 6th or 7th language, man, and he's STILL more at home in it than most of us native-born speakers.
Besides, who can resist a hero who, (view spoiler)[after strenuously attempting to persuade the heroine not to care for him, finally relents in this manner: ''I do a dreadful, lovely thing,' he said, and took her in his arms.' (hide spoiler)]
The usual level of entertainment from Sabatini, this time as a buccaneer schemes how to keep a governor's daughter out of the clutches of a pirate (yes, there's a difference). Less in the way of involved intrigue or even high-octane action, since for much of the story they're all hanging out on an island in purported alliance. Still fun if you like your good and evil monochrome and your characters much much in archetype.
Wow. what book!!. I just read it within two days. undoubtedly it's a world class classic of Rafael Sabatini..
Both the movie and book were very good but, had little in common beyond a boat named The Black Swan, a evil Captain Leach, a girl, a charming French pirate, and a floppish Englishman.
This suprised me at first but, then I settled down and enjoyed the story.One of the charms of the book is the heroine is one of Sabatini's stronger heroines.
There is also more interplay between Leach and the hero than there was in the movie.
The book is not as funny as the movie though.
Still, it is a good read for Sabatini fans.
This book is as enjoyable as Sabatini's other better-known novels.
The plot isn't quite as intricate, but thoroughly entertaining as we follow a young girl, Priscilla, traveling to England who finds herself in the company of one pirate on board their ship as a passenger only for both of them to be captured by another.
Not only is this a great enjoyable tale of romance and adventure, but this book is filled with some of the best written passages that show a great talent for using English words that I have seen.
English is not Sabatini's native language and he uses it better than most authors who's spoken it all their lives!
Solid, enjoyable swashbuckler by one of the masters of the pirate-fiction trade.The action and adventure did not disappoint.
But, never having read Sabatini before, I was surprised by the focus on finely-drawned characterization and the dry, rather complex prose.
Like drawing like unto its intimacies, the vile man meets only vileness and therefore accounts the world vile...As you can see, here is no pound-out-the-purple-prose guy, like, say Frank Yerby or Robert E.
But then Sabatini was Italian by birth, spoke several languages, and lived in Britain from age 17.
This is an urbane, sophisticated writer of excellent adventure stories.
I am very happy, after several years collecting old library copies of Sabatini's works, to see a publisher putting out as many of his lesser known and out of print books. In some ways, it's not helping to read so many of these so closely together, as the Sabatini Plot and Sabatini Characters start to blend together. They are much of the same cloth. But the delight of his breadth of historical location, and the fun of his plots, always drawing their drive from well-researched historical possibility, makes these worth it.
This was my maiden voyage with Sabatini. I sought this novel out after watching the 1942 movie adaptation (which goes way off the plot, btw). I had heard that this book was a "lighter read" than some of his others, and I don't often read romantic plot tones written by men, so I was intrigued. I felt the male characters were very clearly drawn, maybe more so than the heroine, but all flowed together nicely. The language usage was beautiful, and the ending did not disappoint. I see more Sabatini titles in my future!
A very simple pirate adventure. There are no subplots, and the characters don't evolve. It felt almost like a play: one hero, one lady, one annoying side character there to make the hero look good, and one villain. All of the other characters are just bit parts that come and go. It would be a light read if it wasn't so heavily laden with archaic and uncommon words (...which may actually be my favorite feature of the book!). Overall, I'd recommend it to a friend. It's a fun read.
Good ole pirate adventure stories... how I love thee! This one was sort of similar to a lot of his other ones, but it had some different things in it as well. I liked it just the same and I liked it for the same reasons I always like Rafael Sabatini books: they are just fun adventure stories.
Ein weiterer genrebegründender Roman von Sabatini. Mit etwas mehr Fokus auf die Liebesbeziehung als Captain Blood trotzdem ein wundervoller Roman für alle Piratenfreunde. Yarr!
This is the first book of Rafael Sabatini I read and thoroughly enjoyed it. I couldn't put it down. I love it when characters are so well written that you can picture them so clearly in your mind.
Good. Not great. There are elements of Captain Blood in here but The Black Swan almost felt like a short story extended to novel length.
read some time in 1978
Excellent maritime tale. Notable vocabulary
Excellent I need to find more books by Sabatini!!
I'm such a sucker for classic, strong, clever masculine heroes paired with intelligent heroines. :)
I enjoyed this story but it wasn't as good as some of his others. Read Captain Blood or Scaramouche first.
Ah, more pirates. Not quite as good as Captain Blood, IMHO, but worth a read if you love swashbucklers.
