https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2649599-what-jesus-saw-from-the-cross
In the last chapter, as Christ raises His eyes toward heaven in His last moments of life, the vision steps away from what is below, and Sertillanges attempts to contemplate Christ’s vision beyond the earth.Two things are important there—the intermingling of the divine with the material and the source of the first cause, God the Father.
What Sertillanges sees at that moment is the reconciliation of all things, the material and the spirit, the eternal and the transient, the internal and the external.So in that moment of looking toward heaven, just before Christ dies, defeat and victory, heaven and earth, spirit and body, fuse.
The author's perspective on the women around Jesus was especially interesting...
The author did have a terrible job; how does one describe the horrors of Jesus' crucifixion?
One of the parts that struck me as something I needed to take and apply to my own life was Jesus' love of nature and and how He saw heaven in everything here on Earth.
He left Jesus when He needed Peter most.
But even through all of that, Jesus still loved Peter.
But even through all of that, Jesus still loved Peter.
An excellent book! It really helps you to visualize the passion. With the sights and sounds, you can almost feel Jesus making his way along the Via Dolorosa. Even for someone who's been to Jerusalem, I'll be praying the sorrowful mysteries in a whole new light.
A beautiful meditation on the Passion, originally published in French as Ce que JésusVoyait du Haut de la Croix in 1930. This 1996 edition was based on the English translation, first by Clonmore & Reynolds Ltd., Dublin, in 1948.
Very powerful book, lots of vivid descriptions of the Passion of Jesus
A little tough to read, but good for times when I need to remember what's important and what's not.
I read this during my Triduum retreat 2017. Excellent book. Probably best read over the course of Holy Week, and not three days. Highly recommended, both by me and, apparently, Mother Teresa.
Mostly I found this book boring. He said a few things which almost bordered on heretical. The one part I did like was the chapter called His Enemies. This one chapter would make a really good Lenten reflection. It's about His experience on the Cross....it's the only part I felt he described vividly. Otherwise I felt like this book was a letdown.
Excellent meditation on the Passion... Illuminating perspective from someone who has obviously been to the site and spent much time putting himself in the place of Christ. Especially beautiful and poignant ending.
This is a great book and it beautifully depicts the life of Jesus through the eyes of Jesus. It is one of the greatest interpretations of Jesus and his life. I think Antonin Sertillanges does Jesus and religion a great justice to get the story of Jesus's life out and describes his life very well.
No wonder Mother Teresa recommended this book! I will be reading this devotional each year for Lent. The author, a priest who lived in Jerusalem, takes you into the streets to see, to vividly experience the Passion of Christ. So beautifully done!!!
This is one of the most powerful books I have ever read in Christianity. I recommend this book to everyone! This describes what Jesus saw from the cross, his crucifixion, & His love for us from the beginning to infinity. The descriptions are beautiful & the words are powerful & will leave a lasting impression on the reader.
I enjoyed this book. The author did a good job of looking at what Jesus saw from numerous angles, not only the area in Jerusalem but the people he saw. There were parts that were too heady for me - especially the last chapter on heaven. But overall a good meditative book
This is such a good read and a profound meditation on the passion. I especially liked the reflection on Mary Magdalene at the cross--hands down one of the best reflections of her role at the passion.
Beautiful and evocative reflections on Christ’s Passion. Also highly recommend his *The Intellectual Life* which I read many years ago.
Inspiring!The perfect book for Lent to stare through the eyes of Christ as he suffers on the Cross. This meditation is meant to nail us to the Cross so as to experience with Christ what He saw and why he chose to die for us.
Another gift from Lloyd...
Wonderful historic story about what happened from the view from the cross . Great detail about the area, people , culture and landscape.
A bit difficult to read at times, but very powerful! A good read for Lent.
There was nothing really wrong with this book, but it was not what I expected. I expected meditations on the Crucifixion but instead I got...something kinda boring.
Lyrical in its beauty. The author considers various buildings and other places that Christ might have seen and contemplated from the cross. A beautiful book, filled with insights. A must read.
Very interesting to see what how it was at that time. This was an interesting book to read in Lent.
