https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85379.Cruel_Unusual
Review  Cruel & Unusual by Patricia Cornwell, the fourth in the "Kay Scarpetta" series was a solid book with a little more edge than some of the others, hence the 4 rating. Two key parts of this one that appealed to me:1. Scarpetta learns more about the prison system, in particular how a newly killed inmate's finger prints could show up on a dead body several days after the inmate died. The "gimmick" has been used before, but Cornwell keeps it tightly wound until the end of the book. It's
Cruel & Unusual by Patricia Cornwell, the fourth in the "Kay Scarpetta" series was a solid book with a little more edge than some of the others, hence the 4 rating.
And it gets very scientific, which really helps push you closer to the edge of not wanting to stop reading it.
That said, the technology is almost 25+ years old compared to today's standards, so it's nothing earth-shattering at this point.
Still a good read today, I'm sure.2.
I read this shortly after it came out but I was still very close to technology way back then.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Javno priznajem da sam ja jedini krivac što je ovaj nastavak kasnio... :) Želela sam da ga prevedem a nisam imala vremena da se bavim prevođenjem... :)
3.5 StarsChief medical examiner, Kay Scarpetta, gets embroiled in another murder case when she is called in to perform an autopsy on a convicted killer named Ronnie Waddell who has just been executed on death row.
It seems to imply a copy-cat is on the loose - either that or the wrong man was just executed for a crime he may not have actually committed all those years ago...This 4th installment has been my personal favourite of the Kay Scarpetta books I've read so far.
I was intrigued by the premise and the whole idea that 'a convicted killer may actually be innocent' thing.
SPOILERS!!!!! 26/3 - One of my favourite Scarpetta mysteries and another that gets to keep its five star rating. It sets up a long-running battle between Scarpetta and Gault and her continuing problems with the politicians/her bosses. I had forgotten the way things, big things, happen 'off screen' so to speak and was practically having a heart attack when Mark's death was casually brought up which left me thinking I'd somehow missed a book. Then I remembered, things happen in the time that pass
Melbourne's traffic is bad enough, we really don't need to add snow to the problem.Throughout this book, and to a lesser extent All that Remains, Scarpetta is constantly paging Marino and then bemoaning the fact that he probably can't find a payphone to call her back, all I keep thinking is "I can't wait till he gets a mobile, it's going to save him and Scarpetta so much time and annoyance, possibly even save lives" (like in All that Remains when Pat Harvey has to go searching for a phone after Abby is shot, maybe if she'd had a phone in her pocket Abby could have been saved).
A death row prisoner is executed and the Dr. Scarpetta is called on to do the autopsy.
Everything seems to be straight forward until fingerprints start turning up at the scene of recent murders that belong to the executed prisoner.When the police investigate they find a lot of missing evidence from the office of the Chief Medical Examiner.
There's enough dead ends to keep you guessing and keep you reading.Not so much in the way of solving by forensics.
I actually stopped and double checked because some very major things in Kay's life seemed to have happened between books and they are just sort of unceremoniously dropped in our laps.
I know these books are about the work Kay does, but if you introduce major characters, I would hope we would see where their relationships with Kay go.
Although I don't know why- Kay is kind of unlikeable- but this isn't a spoiler so...
And it seems that the only person actually aging in these books is Lucy.
I like reading about the things people can do, but I don't need a play by p[lay.
Scarpetta reminds me somewhat of Bones. But s more likable version. A little more human. I enjoyed this and the relationships she has was everyone, including her niece Lucy.
I passed the last three days being tremendously entertained by book 4 in the Dr. Kay Scarpetta series!Scarpetta is slowly recovering from the death of her unrequited love, Mark James, FBI agent, who was killed in a terrorist bombing in London in the previous book.
However, several cases of murder begin to interest her, especially since they appear linked to a killer, Ronnie Joe Waddell.
But Waddell was executed by electrical chair at the local prison on the same day the first body mutilated in the same style as he was known to do is found!
And was important confidential information about Waddell's murder victim stolen from the morgue's computerized files about the case?
With the small choice available in the staff room it was either that, James Patterson or the Twilight books.
I'm very rarely without a book or two on my person so more fool me.In the interests of disclosure I actually used to read the Scarpetta novels when younger (probably read about the first 6 or 7) but eventually gave up when I realised I didn't care enough.
It was only at the very end of this that I realised I have probably read this before.
I think I'll avoid reading any more of them again in the future unless really stuck for choice (nothing will ever make me read the rest of the Twilight books).
Seeking the help of a long-ago acquaintance, Scarpetta tries to tie up loose ends before things slip through her fingers…Cornwell, the master wordsmith, does wonders with her narrative description of scenery, characters, and situations, so much so that the reader can actually consider themselves one of the characters.
Continuing her development of the character’s backstory, Cornwell does a wonderful job of treating the reader who has invested time in reading the series sequentially (this writer being one) to details building on revelations from one novel to the next.
While key personal details were skimmed over, trivialized, and told post the actual events in past novels, in Cruel and Unusual, Cornwell killed off an important if not often seen character between books, dropping the news in an offhand manner and never actually dealing with it or its implications for her heroine.
Granted, the focus of the series is not on Dr. Scarpetta's personal life, but, when said personal life becomes central to both the current case and the lead character's very personality, then the issues which shape Kay as a person need to be explored on a deeper level.Speaking of Dr. Scarpett'a personal life having an impact upon Cruel and Unusual's cases, this seems to be a pattern for Cornwell: her heroine gets way too involved in her work.
This was actually my third book by Cornwell, having originally “discovered” her by reading “Isle of the Dogs”; she has an interesting voice and sense of place in her writing, and I find Dr. Scarpetta to be a believable and very sympathetic character.
While I haven’t read every installment, I am trying to read them in order, and Cornwell, gives enough background in each installment that I don’t feel “lost” when I pick up the next book.
In this book, Dr. Scarpetta, along with Lt. Pete Marino, try to explain how the only fingerprints at a recent crime scene belong to an already executed criminal.
Excellent!
This one did remind me a lot of #1 in not only there were multiple murders happening, but that (1) KS was eventually being targeted or set up to look like she may have done 1 or some of them or was somehow involved; (2) someone broke into the medical examiner's database (UNIX system?) for confidential info or changing it; (3) her niece, Lucy, was visiting and help solved the computer break-in problems; (4) that people both working under her and officials above her were up to altering info, making false accusations and criminal activity and, of course, this in addition to regular characters & them going to bat for her, pulling strings & illegal or borderline illegal things on her behalf (since it's 22 yrs old, I'm ok with the spoiler that she doesn't kill the unsub at the end this time)...which I didn't think a lot at first but looking back it kind of was esp.
There is a subplot with Kay's niece, Lucy, that I found a tad ingratiating and annoying, but for anyone reading the Scarpetta mysteries in order, it is an understandable and rather necessary bit of character development.I do, however, object to Cornwell relegating some of the more serious character development to the back story.
It baffled me why Kay would take such pains to keep them hidden.Furthermore, I respect Cornwell's decision to keep her novels secured solely in the Holmesian realm of mystery solving, but this means that there is very little action in the book, and a lot of key details are discussed and reviewed over and over again by the characters.
Everyone wonders how Ronnie Joe Waddell's unique fingerprint appears at the murder scene of Eddie Heath a few hours after Waddell was executed.
Dr. Scarpetta, together with her expert team consisting of the charismatic Pete Marino, Benton Wesley and her niece Lucy, they went to great lengths to investigate and expose the murderer, but not without her getting practically destroyed.Among the female crime writers I've read, I think the legendary Patricia Cornwell is my favorite.
She's got to be an exceptional author who uses her expertise in the investigative field to make sure that there is substance in the novels that she write.
I was a bit skeptical over whether or not I should have picked this book up.
This book was great and my new favorite of Cornwell (who I think is the master at this genre) This book was totally creepy, and I loved every page, and the fact that the killer runs at the end, really intrigues me to keep up on these novels.
The thing I love about Cornwell, is that she makes getting from point A to B, so much fun.
This is not the case with this book.
This was 3.5 stars, but I will round up because I read another book today, that I absolutely hated so this one gets elevated by comparison.I like the main character in this series. She is flawed but strong. The author describes her well including her struggles and disappointments. The other characters were also well thought out. The story moved along quickly. I have read three other book by this author, and I either really liked them or I really didn't. There doesn't seem to be a middle road.
Odlično štivo da malo odmorite od teških tema. Lično volim tematiku, radnja je kao iz epizode serije Body of proof... Karpetina sestričina je malo bacila u zasenak glavnu protagonistkinju, od čijeg sam lika očekivao malo više dubine i slojevitosti. Rado ću se vraćati dogodovštinama Kej Skarpete
Scarpetta is such a cool cat. Enjoy her strolling through morgues dropping truth bombs and dodging murder raps in this latest outing.
Still a good read...just not a great one.Kay is set to do her examination of Ronnie Joe Waddell who was a death row prisoner who was killed with the electric chair.
Yet as the body is being examined at the morgue, others are being killed and the fingerprints at the scene and the way the murder scene is laid out point to Waddell being the killer.
While the investigation to the murders continues suddenly fingers are being pointed at Kay Scarpetta and she is going to have to defend herself.Fun read but ending left me disappointed.
Blood, death, politics, intrigue, red herrings and lots of bodies. Excellent Scarpetta novel - really, really like this series and this was a great read.
There were so many twists and turns in this book that really kept me thinking.
With all the twists and turns and things that transpired in the book (corruption within the justice system, specifically in the ME's office), the ending did complete the story for me.
After reading the first three books in this series, I was just surprised that the killer was not found or killed in the end.
Yet, I think that she explains things well enough that a person without a scientific background would understand the tests and findings presented in the book.
WARNING: If you intend to read this as a part of the Scarpetta series and haven't read the previous three books, you might not want to read this review.Chief Medical Examiner Kay Scarpetta's duties include autopsies of inmates executed by the state of Virginia.
I liked Kay a little bit more in this book.
She's not all meloncholy and pining over Mark, because he's dead (a fact revealed in the first chapter that made me feel like I must have missed something, or skipped one of the books in the series.
4) in the saga of Kay Scarpetta, medical examiner, M.D. and J.D., cook and friend extraordinaire!Book starts out with the execution of a man on state death row.But Scarpetta et al.
Someone (or someones) start setting up situations to make Scarpetta look bad -- removing vital crime files and photos from the public record, failing to take prints of a body being autopsied, in general, making Scarpetta look bad as the official who leads the Virginia state medical examiner's office.She herself gets suspected of a murder when one of her subordinates turns up killed.As usual, she toughs her way through, figures it all out, gets the bad guys caught and dealt with.
This novel reminds me why I don't like committing to crime thrillers, this cliché ridden and poor storytelling is really frustrating.
Kay is the main suspect in this book, what is it with crime thrillers doing this?
I liked the Kay character but having her in the midst of trial and investigation is poor novel writing.
I hate cliché writing, every detective seems to encounter this in every series, I just think it's something that has been done to death.
I just want a series that investigates and includes the darkness that enters their private life.
Blog | Reviews | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
The UNIX details were like reading about the early days of telephony, woefully out of date.
The real problem is that Patricia Cornwell writes with the pen of a bitter, catty woman.
The killer who was executed at the beginning of the book for a brutal murder of a young woman is described in terms of compassion and/or pity.
Her murdered neighbour is said to be "grossly overweight" but that she was "pretty in her leaner days." There are literally dozens more examples I could give of this wicked spitefulness spewing from Cornwell's keyboard.
Because this book is just steeped in hatred for anyone who isn't a thin, smart white woman.
Patricia Cornwell's vierde boek, Rigor Mortis, was mijn eerste.
Ondanks de tip (lees de Scarpetta's op volgorde) die achterin (!) het boek te vinden is.
Rigor Mortis heeft me vanaf de eerste bladzijde in zijn greep gehouden.
Wel bijzonder trouwens, dat een patholoog-anatoom politieonderzoek verricht.
Dit neemt niet weg dat het verhaal een goede opbouw in de spanning heeft.
Dat is wel eens anders in boeken.
Toch heb ik nog wel een, zij het kleine, aanmerking op het boek.
Ondanks dit minpuntje is Rigor Mortis me uitstekend bevallen en zal ik niet nalaten meer boeken over Kay Scarpetta te gaan lezen.

