https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1649035.No_Life_for_a_Lady
I picked this book up in Wall Drug Store in South Dakota while on vacation.
Her memoir tells of life growing up on a cattle ranch back in the days of true cowboys.
She tells what it was really like to live and work on a cattle ranch back then, when going to get the mail happened once a week and entailed a fourteen mile horseback ride to the nearest town.
I really enjoyed reading this book; it's nicely organized even if not strictly linear and is well-written.
Agnes lived from 1875 to 1958, born and raised in the New Mexican frontier.
Her claim to fame is clearly documenting frontier life in New Mexico before it was lost.
Arriving back in New Mexico immediately after reading it and again surveying the country I am impressed by those who came and successfully settled, understanding why many did not succeed.
Agnes, one of those unique people, earned her place in the New Mexico Museum as a historian who knew and understand a way of life was changing and would be lost if not captured.
Fascinating biography recorded by the author from the life story of Agnes Morley Cleveland as she told it in 1940s. Cleveland went to New Mexico in 1885? as a child in what was still the wild west. As with other stories, this real life record is to me much better than fiction.
Tangling lively memories with true-to-earth yarns about westerners, Agnes Morley Cleaveland brings her life on a New Mexico cattle ranch to life.
She gracefully and humerously moves the reader along her trail of growing up and transforming into a cattle baron.
She respectfully gives homage to her fellow westerners -- be they cattlemen, farmers, natives, outlaws, government people or tourists.
No Life for a Lady is a delightful glimps into the old west.
It doesn't bog the reader down with judgements or bravado.
It combines folksy dialect with a surprisingly challenging English vocabulary.
It paints a realistic portrait of real wild west life styles.
An AMAZING account of a young woman's life in the early west.
Her father dies and she, her brother, and their mother run the ranch.
They find themselves becoming very good hands.
She has an ear for a good story and tells them in a delightful way.
She must have loved telling these stories too.
The girls at her back east boarding school must have though she was pulling their legs.
After a school mate spends the holiday at the ranch she reports, "Agnes is not given to exaggeration."Outstanding.
If you like stories of the west don't miss this one.
Since I grew up on a sheep ranch much like the New Mexico ranch this author lived on I connected with her story. If you like books about the west this is a must read.
Book isn’t for everyone, but for someone like me who embraces the magic of the SW part of our country, you might like it.A friend & I got back from a lovely vacation in NM a couple of weeks ago.
Agnes was born SSW of Albuquerque in 1874 & wrote this memoir in 1947.
I loved it.
Enjoyed her dialogue in her Western vernacular:“Lorny was an eerie, undersized little morsel of humanity” “‘We was a-ridin’ along single file, Miss Agnes in the lead, when we heard a snort up on the mountain above us.
I loved this book. Great portrayal of life in New Mexico in the late 1800's.Interestingly, the author describes political correctness between Indians, Mexicans and whites using the same phraseology and eye-rolling that we use today. It cracked me up.This book would give helicopter parents a heart attack!
Read this due to a recommendation from my Boss. It was an interesting read, but without a main plot. Mostly miscellaneous stories. I’m not very interested in western books, and I had a hard time reading without losing interest. Fascinating stories from her life.
good book for reading before bed, entertaining but able to put down when I need to sleep.
This was an excellent book.
Wonderful account of a woman's upbringing on a cattle ranch in New Mexico. I loved this. It reminded me very much of Will James' "Lone Cowboy" -- high praise indeed.
Loved this book. Authentic? You bet. Accurate? Who cares! Agnes Morley Cleaveland weaves a wonderful tale.
That said, I still really enjoyed the book and would recommend it to others.Quotes I liked--"I want to testify that with a forty-mile ride ahead of him my father did not start out at 'full gallop.' (It always enrages me to see that done in the movies.)" p 13 This reminded me of my mother.
"Scattering ashes was a new idea in our country, and it was long before some of his cattle-rustling neighbors would use the trail beside which the monument stands.") p 339"Seventy per cent of Catron County had gone on relief.
This is where the author grew up from the late 1880's to early 1930's.
The area was arid, remote, open range for cattle and children grew up fast yet still had time to be children.Modern parents would be horrified by the responsibilities and behavior of the Morley children.
By 8 they were on horseback and not tame well-mannered horses but any available even half broke horse carrying messages between the ranch house and cowboys in camps.
By 12 they were cowboys themselves.
All are in a simple no nonsense style reflecting the fact that this was life as it was and accepted as such.This is not a book for the lover of popular cowboy tales.
Inside, nothing is special and unique, but outside people still have the surprise that such a thing exists.
She writes of novelists in the western genre that got it all wrong; today, cable TV sets the interpretation of the west in a feed-back loop so if they weren't correct when the started they are correct by the time they finish.I'm so glad she was able to put her unique world into a bottle, to exist forever, from before all of this.
Being a New Mexico Native, this book had some personal impact as we get the opportunity to learn a little more about the history and culture of the area in which we live.
Written about the late 1800's Agnes Morley Cleaveland (author), writes in a challenging form where she tells and writes stories of varied experiences that happen to her over her life.
We the reader get to experience many things we are familiar with and learn new things that occurred during their time period.I had a devil of a time getting into this book.
If you want to know what life was like living in New Mexico Territory in the late 1800's while raising a cattle ranch...
read this book.
This book is a collection of memories and stories from the author's life about just that.
Some stories were more entertaining than others, but I found them all very interesting.
Very interesting read!It was interesting how she ended it.
Government has changed a lot in regards to cattle raising and land ownership, and as she realized this, she decided to write her memories of what life was like when she was a girl when there wasn't so much government influence.
This is a collection of short chapters about the early life of the author who was basically raised with her brother and sister on a ranch in Datil, New Mexico.
With her story are countless stories of life on the ranch, people who came in and out of her life, and the growth of the area, from horses and wagons and buggies, to the first of the cars to come to the area.
Her story is a fascinating read about early New Mexico and ranching, even more so for me, as I know Datil and the area.
This book is about a woman who lived and thrived in the back country of New Mexico in the mid-1800s.
The story starts when she is just a young girl and takes the reader all the way until around the time she's in her 60s or so (doesn't really say explicitly).
They are cattle ranchers and lived by the code of the land.
Agnes Morley Cleaveland is a wonderful writer and tells stories and yarns with the best of them.
It's all true, too :) This book was a gift so I had no idea how enjoyable it would be.
The author was born on a New Mexico cattle ranch in 1874 and originally wrote this book in 1941.
(Since 2012 is the centennial year for NM statehood, my book club is reading 3 books about various aspects of NM history.)She tells many stories about her life in rural NM in a charming way and finishes the book by talking about how things have changed since she was a girl.
The book gives a flavor of life as it was really lived in the late 19th century.
"Authentic, well written, and, in many passages, downright charming...Nothing quite like it has come out of the Southwest..." wrote the Herald Tribune Books.K.
Born in 1874 on a primitive cattle ranch in what was to become New Mexico, Agnes Morley Cleaveland lived the reality of the "Wild West." With her you learn to ride almost before you can walk, deal with outlaws, hunt grizzlies, and watch the many changes she regrets: the invasion of the country by writers and tourists, theatrical changes in cowboys, and government encroachment. Most of all you will enjoy the adventures this fatherless girl, her brother, and her widowed mother have as they all learn to handle the ranch that William Raymond Morley left them after he was shot.
It's not Agnes Morley Cleaveland's fault that it took me over six months to finish this book. Bedside reading projects are fated to be long-term because I am lucky to read two paragraphs before my eyes close. Cleaveland's style is warm, dry, and droll in this memoir of cattle herding on the New Mexico open range in the early 20th century. For those who like women's stories of frontier life, I recommend this selection as a more sophisticated, disciplined, and modern read than Isabella Bird's  A L
It's not Agnes Morley Cleaveland's fault that it took me over six months to finish this book. Bedside reading projects are fated to be long-term because I am lucky to read two paragraphs before my eyes close. Cleaveland's style is warm, dry, and droll in this memoir of cattle herding on the New Mexico open range in the early 20th century. For those who like women's stories of frontier life, I recommend this selection as a more sophisticated, disciplined, and modern read than Isabella Bird's 
  A Lady's Life in the Rocky Mountains
.
I love this lady, and wish I could meet her! She was an independent woman who grew up ranching with her family in New Mexico, and had the most refreshing take on women's lib that I could even imagine for someone of her era. Work needs doing? Just do it - who cares what gender you are! Loved her sense of humor and her straight perspective on a world I find fascinating. I picked up this book at a Smithsonian exhibit in Santa Fe on Cowboys and couldn't pass it up. Glad I finally read it!
This book was excellent. I think the author was a feminest, but the run-ins with that are brief. It tells of cowboys, and cattle ranches, and a girls place in all of this. It tells of Agnes Morley Cleaveland's growing up living on a cattle ranch.However, it also tells of the decline of cattle ranching. The end of the book is rather sad because of this, but for the most part it is incredibly funny. I do reccomend this book for others to read.
This autobiography of life on a New Mexico cattle spread during the years 1880 to 1940 was fascinating. It was filled with incredible adventures and sprinkled with insights that could apply to today's cultural and political landscape. Along the way origins of idioms still in use today came to light. The author would have been a contemporary of my grandmother (although in different states). I wondered what my grandmother's story would have been, had she written it down.
How many times do you get to step back in time and see the world as it was before you were born? Agnes Morley Cleaveland does just that in such a way as you are transported. This is one of the best journals and documentaries I've ever had the pleasure to read. Thank goodness it's been preserved and shared with the world. A time and place that will never be again has been immortalized through her writings.
This book was a look back at a way of life that no longer exists -- the Western ranches of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. No mechanized equipment, few incorporated communities, and a tough and simple daily grind. The author sets the right tone, fond but not sentimental. A fascinating story of independent and self-reliant individuals.
Bought this at the Gateway Arch on a highschool band trip. It's a very real look at the life and role of a girl growing up on a ranch with her single mother, younger sister and brother. I enjoy the stories she tells and the lack of an idyllic tone which some historical stories about the Old West have. To a certain extent, it's a very egalitarian viewpoint!
This is written by one of the daughters of the Morley family from a ranch near Datel, New Mexico. This family owned 32,000 acres. She tells their story from 1875 - 1933. I loved this book so much. There were many great stories in this book. The Jeffers bought this land from the Morleys. Could this be the polygamist Jeffers' family that is in the news now?
