https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40495.Lion_in_the_Valley
Number 4 in the series and still totally entertaining.
It is a pity his mother never listens to him though.
She could save herself a great deal of trouble as he is usually the best informed person around.Amelia of course never listens to anyone.
Her relationship with Emerson is so entertaining and causes many laugh aloud moments.My favourite character?
Bastet the cat of course.
I love a truly intelligent cat and this one has intelligence in spades:)Lion in the Valley is a bit like Agatha Christie in Egypt ending in that familiar final denouement when all is explained.
Amelia Peabody shares many personal characteristics with Miss Marple.
In the meantime, the precocious Ramses has become a little nosy, and is old enough to start asking questions about marital conjugal activities, which has Emerson seeking a more private place for him and Amelia to sleep.
The mystery is very interesting and of course, Peabody has been observant as ever, piecing things together and coming up with a solution in her practical, no nonsense manner, but must, on occasion, resort to using her trusty parasol in time of crisis.
Although, there is plenty of humor involved, this installment was pretty suspenseful as well and includes a very interesting plot twist I never saw coming.
Pretty soon the dead bodies outnumber the mummies discovered on site and the whole family participate in the investigations and speculations as to the identity of the guilty party - three Sherlocks for the price of one, with young Ramses eclipsing both his parents when it comes to lengthy discourse and far fetched theories.
However, in this case your right to liberty must be laid aside temporarily in favor of a higher good." I found the actual criminal investigation and the archeological details in this fourth book were not quite up to the high standards I have come to expect from Peters.
They will be assisted whether they want it or not!A number of people in this installment end up smothering laughter while dealing with the overly serious and literal Amelia, but all seem to realize that her overbearing-ness is coming from a good heart!
Their son, Ramses, has developed an intense curiosity about sex and they spend quite a bit of time trying to dodge his prying, making for quite a bit of hilarity.
This is merely a week in the life of a family and their archaeological team between Darshoor and Cairo.Some people said beautiful descriptions of Egypt and its culture salvaged this but the silver moonlight etc, is carbon-copied; pick any novel.
There was no lion even as a relic, no archaeological finds, and we explored no pyramid, in a series featuring pyramids!!!!
Amelia retrieved her brat from one corridor.The whole novel is about waiting for a disguised villain to appear.
The absurdly moot point is saying he is enchanted with Amelia; after leaving her and her family stuck in a pyramid previously.
I'm a fan of Emerson family.
Their antics and interactions are over the top and entertaining.
This story doesn't disappoint in the antics but it does get more melodramatic than the previous books in the series.
There's a lot of mention of Emerson's rippling muscles and fantastic physique.
The mysteries in this series are never strong but practically non-existent in this installment.
Not that it matters much but that makes this volume seem more of a filler or place holder for the next than a story in itself.
A fun read but even more fluffy than that others.
Fun but not my favorite.
3.5 stars. The mysteries never seem to matter in these books as the interest comes from the attitudes and dynamics between Peabody and Emerson and of course the insufferable Ramses.
This book is full of romantic triangles. I would like to tell you all about them but I don’t want to ruin the surprises.  What I will tell you is that Amelia and Emerson are excellent and I still love little Ramses. He’s 8 now and still precocious. I love his long dissertations on archeology. He always reminds me of Mr. H, my grandson. His thing is space. He’s trying to teach me the Latin words for the planets. This involves a chart he has drawn. Did I mention he’s 4 years old? Whew!
The Master Criminal becomes a large thorn in the sides of the Emersons, impacting not only Emerson's ability to focus on his current excavation, but Amelia's own safety [I won't say more to avoid any spoilers].The Emersons' son, Ramses is also further developed in this outing, as he is now, at eight years of age, infuriatingly clever and precocious, much to the chagrin and annoyance of his mother.
Amelia deserts Emerson to have this discussion with their son, and the entire scene left me laughing so hard I had tears running down my cheeks!The mystery in this book is as entertaining as always, as are the supporting characters Peters introduces in this outing.
I'm not quite finished with the book yet but wanted to mention this while it was in my head...there is so much sex in this book I cannot believe it.
You know what the great part of this is?
So how do I know there is a great deal of sex going on here?
She explicity explains, without actual details, that Emerson and Peabody have a wonderful, loving, romantic and sexually fulfilling relationship.
It is clean, safe, family friendly - but so darned romantic and loving that I love it to tiny little pieces!
I loved it just as much as the first three.
"You were talking in your sleep last night, Amelia.""What nonsense, Emmerson!
I am even enjoying Ramses now, who at first I found rather insufferable, but an insufferable character is much more endearing when it is apparent that his own parents find him rather insufferable (or at least, Amelia does).
It makes me wonder whether Ramses is one of those characters that authors speak of that emerge in their mind, and then rampage through their stories doing whatever they like.***Also, listening to this as an audio book makes me begin speaking with a rather English accent, much to my husband's bewilderment.
The narrator wasn't bad but her Emerson voice was awful and she had long pauses. As for the plot, there was almost no plot! The end was funny and unexpected.
I was basically looking for a fun read and to branch out of my primary reading fields a bit (F&SF and non-fiction science).
(I love Amelia's offhand comment that she doesn't read mysteries because the characters are always solving things with incredible leaps of illogic.
It's a bit disappointing, really -- the world of the 19th century Egyptology craze is fascinating, and it would be neat to read really well developed mysteries in that era.
As it is, I kept wishing that the characters would take their petty mysteries and get out of the way, to let the rest of us appreciate the surroundings.
True, things are a bit formulaic and yes, there are several things that the reader just needs to accept and roll with, but hey, I felt more entertained by this book than I have by the previous two installments and this firmly planted me in the pro-Peters camp so that I know I'll keep reading the series, so clearly the book is a very welcome chapter in the lives of Amelia Peabody and Radcliffe Emerson.In Lion in the Valley, the Emerson family heads to Egypt for a season spent excavating at Dahshoor.
I've reached the point with Amelia as an unreliable narrator that I find myself wanting to skip ahead to the future books with different narrators just to get a sense of how she's really perceived by all of the ancillary characters who she believes are besotted by her kindness, intelligence and generosity. I'm also past done with clever asides about her boisterous sexual escapades. Was also very disappointed by the absence of any archaeology in this book, esp. since Emerson finally got the permit for Dahshur. Maybe those stories are in Book 5?
A fun read. The plot is ridiculous (these are meant mostly as a parody of adventure novels rather than serious mysteries) but I enjoy the Emerson family very much. I look forward to watching Rameses' exploits as he grows up. I like Amelia's wary yet resigned attitude towards her implausibly precocious, accident-prone son.
Two stars off for the annoying Ramses.
Unfortunately, though i ought to know the story of Enid Debenham, Donald/Ronald Fraser, Ramses being his full-on self (memorizing and reproducing the calls of a whole slew of Cairo’s muezzin!!!) and Amelia, Emerson, and the M.C., much of it was marred by the truly terrible interpretation I started listening with.
Tragically, O’Malley’s audio is cheaper and hence seems to be what’s available streamed through the library, but listening to Rosenblat on CD is worth ILL (and even worth begging gift-givers to find those ex-library copies on CD that pop up on Amazon.) Sure, I can get Rosenblat through Audible but if I’m paying for something I darn well want to own a physical thing.
My favorite book so far in the Amelia Peabody series. The mystery is interesting and is woven throughout the book. The quirky characters are just as hilarious and engaging as ever. I'm hooked on this series...on to book 5!
I always enjoy my night readings of Peter’s Egyptian based mysteries. I can always count on cute themes, some cheesy romance, and a somewhat violent climax of men fighting each other. Just fun reading.
This is the first book in the series (of which I "listened to some but not all) where The Master Criminal's nomdeplume (or for the purists who will insist this means "pen name") alias is revealed...however if I put it here it will constitute a spoiler...soooooo, I'll just say it refers back to Egyptian mythology.
Amelia carries on a continuing flirtation with "the Master Criminal" throughout much of this series...I can't help but identify with her husband, and would probably have been slightly more, insistent that she make up her mind as to her stance on criminality and monogamy.
While I wasn't thrilled with the characters in Crocodile on the Sandbank,the mystery itself was okay and I figured that by the time Elizabeth Peters got to book number 4, all the things that irritated me would have been ironed out.
And there is Amelia constantly telling the reader about her intimate life with her husband.
The imagery she uses is beautiful and I can see the setting in my mind.(Oh and Amelia and Emerson's son, Ramses, may be the most annoying character in all of fiction.
Returning to Egypt to excavate the pyramids at Dahshoor, Amelia Peabody, Radcliffe Emerson, and their 8-year-old son Walter Peabody Emerson, a.k.a. Ramses the walking/talking encyclopedia.
Right now Ramses is my favorite character.
He can talk a blue streak and keep right on going unless he is interrupted (usually in exasperation by Amelia).
I liked when Nemo asked Amelia why Ramses needed a babysitter.
It was wonderful to find out how Amelia and Emerson met and how Ramses joined the excavations.
This is a series that doesn't need to be read in order but it certainly helps on the personal level to keep the events in sequence.
I was studying archaeology, so obviously reading ridiculous nineteenth century archaeological mysteries was basically what I did in between writing essays.
Obviously, I was due for a reread!
It's full of Ramses being a precocious little shit, and Emerson coming to the rescue just when he's needed, and Amelia wearing utterly ridiculous outfits that she thinks are hugely practical, and a damsel in distress - the love of her life isn't far off, of course - and the Master Criminal.
I ploughed through nearly 300 pages of it in the hour and a half that it took me to get home from work, and it was fabulous from start to finish.
I love this series and enjoy the play & the banter between Amelia and Emerson.
My favorite character however is their son Ramses and I love that he gets more time in this story.
Together the Emerson family solves the murder, unravels the mystery, sends the Master Criminal running and does it with flair.
This is definitely a little heavy on the Victorian way of speaking, but the characters make it well worth the effort.As the second or third time I've read this book, I KNOW I will read it again.
Amelia Peabody starts to do something you KNOW is going to end in disaster, and I found myself telling her not to.These books are a fun parody the novels of H Rider Haggard.
Amelia Peabody and her parasol of mass destruction.
The pyramids, the villains, and the hapless people who get swept along in the wake of the Emersons as they do less digging at the archaeological site this time around mostly due to the stream of visitors and single-minded determination of Amelia to unmask the master criminal.Recommended for a fun, light read.
It's not my favorite of Emerson and Amelia's adventures together I've read so far, but it made me laugh out loud the most.The plot is thin, and a bit confusing (I, like Emerson, could not keep the brothers Ronald and Donald straight, especially as an audiobook). Amelia is particularly obsessed with the Master Criminal here, and it wears a little thin in places.That said, Ramses was thoroughly entertaining, and I enjoyed the twists at the end, even if they were a bit overly convenient.
It's always quite wonderful to spend time with Amelia, Emerson and - dare I say it - even Ramses, who's actually growing on me (I can't believe I'm typing that!). This book is no different than the rest - it's a joy and the domestic plot is far more interesting than the mystery. The end was a bit too scary for me or it might just be that I don't enjoy physical fights. Give me a resolution in the form of an exposé any day. I'm savouring the books, I know I'll miss them some day.
In my opinion, this series gets better with each book in the series. I love the verbal and romantic interaction between Amelia Peabody and her husband, Radcliffe Emerson. Their precocious/rambunctious son, Ramses, is now 8 years old and definitely a handful! Elizabeth Peters was a "master" at creating adventurous plots that are somewhat over the top but still very fun to read. You will have to read this and the previous book to understand why I used master in this review :) Don't want to giveaway any spoilers!
This book was an absolute whirlwind! Twists and turns while maintaining the loveliness of a Amelia story. So excited to see Ramses growing up, despite a few details! 🤣 This book’s basic summary is that Sethos is a douchecanoe!
