https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116697.Calico_Captive
Little Sylvanus, especially, takes to the Abenaki lifestyle like a duck to water, enthusiastically learning to hunt and speak their language.However, when Miriam rejects the romantic overtures of a chief's son, the Indians sell most of the group--except Sylvanus, Susanna and baby Captive--to the French in Quebec as servants/slaves.
The real-life Susanna Johnson, Miriam's sister, wrote a book about her adventures entitled A Narrative of The Captivity of Mrs. Johnson; Containing An Account of Her Sufferings, During Four Years, With the Indians and French, available to read online here.
I mean, it did win the Newbery (and more recently than 'Witch').
A meticulous researcher who captures period colors, sounds, even smells, George never fails to present vibrant characters dealing with issues not unlike those young people confront today, as well as deliver exciting stories filled with action.For 'Captive,' George takes off from a first-person real-life account of four years spent as a hostage and a slave in the time of the French and American War. In the 'Narrative of the Captivity of Mrs. Johnson,' Susanna Johnson tells of her family's kidnapping by Abenaki Indians in New Hampshire, their forced march north, their sale to residents of Montreal, and their eventual return to New England in a prisoner exchange.
George makes Susanna's younger sister, Miriam Willard, the protagonist of her tale.
More headstrong and impetuous than her practical sister, Miriam prejudges Indians and French, then finds herself questioning those prejudices.
Problematic portrayal of American Indians, though it seems quite in keeping with the real feelings of the captives--based on the historical narrative--for what that's worth. I read this over and over as a child, especially savoring the descriptions of life in Montreal--the dishes, the furniture, the food, the hot chocolate, and especially the clothes. I really didn't understand, at age 10, why (SPOILER) Miriam wouldn't want to marry Pierre and stay at home in a fine Montreal mansion while he explored western rivers. It sounded good to ME.
Disclaimer on the rating: this reflects my love for the story as a child. Here is a link to another person's review that shows the issues with accuracy.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
(It's historically accurate but pretty sad that this character doesn't change her mind any even when a white guy tries to explain some basic "they were here first" morality.)Speare wisely chooses to make Mrs. Johnson's younger sister Miriam Willard her protagonist.
One detail I found interesting was that in the novel, Susanna gives birth to a baby during this forced march and names her Captive.
Such a romantic book! I first read it in Junior High, and I liked it as well the second time I read it twenty years later! For those of you who love historical, romantic fiction that's wholesome - it doesn't get much better.
The first time I read this book, I liked it fairly well. My only problem with it was the fact that the climax of the book seemed to be the moment when Miriam (view spoiler)[ by dancing the minuet in calico (hide spoiler)] shows that she understands that clothing and position do not dictate a person's worth and dignity. But the author is laboring under the delusion that the ending is the climax...but you've almost forgotten that the subject of this climax even exists! Very confusing.But as a hist
What a great record!Reality is that Miriam is detained late the night before the capture by what Susannah calls 'A spruce young spark' who wanted to 'keep company' with her a little longer, is teased by a bratty Indian boy in a grade-school style during their captivity, and no Frenchman ever appears.Miriam saves her infant niece's life in a rushing river, thereby reattaching her to her sister and earning respect from her Indian captors for her bravery.The true story?
Calico Captive is the fictionalized version of A Narrative Of The Captivity Of Mrs. Johnson told from the perspective of Susannah Johnson’s younger (by ten years) sister, Miriam. As would be expected with any captivity story, it’s fascinating, fast-paced and hard to put down. The author does an excellent job of portraying a young woman confronting the competing dangers of trying to stay alive, keep family together and maintain cherishes values amidst the perplexities of multi-cultures, (English, French, Indian, and colonial) divergent religious beliefs against the backdrop of constantly changing fortunes. Highly recommended for young—and slightly older—readers!
Cleanliness:Sexual ContentLust - 4 Incidents: “A man looks boldly at a girl in a way that was … disturbing.” Some girls tease about liking and marrying certain guys.
A girl notices how a young man looks at her and makes her uncomfortable.Miscellaneous - 14 Incidents: There are a few dances in the book.
That night she thinks about him and another guy she likes.
A young man proposes to and kisses a girl.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Conversation Topics and Profanity, visit my website.
This Fifties classic is one of the greatest YA novels ever written -- in some ways it's even better than THE WITCH OF BLACKBIRD POND!Elizabeth George Speare had a very special gift.
She was able to use all of the danger and intrigue of the past -- witch trials in Puritan New England, terrifying Indian raids on the frontier -- as a backdrop for the heroine's romantic adventures, in a way that made every page seem to turn by itself!
That plus the fact that she could make a girl gulping down a mug of hot chocolate under the knowing eyes of a handsome young French adventurer seem steamier than the hottest sex!
I loved how Speare incorporated romance into her stories in a very subtle way, and how her endings always seemed to finish on just the right note.Somehow I never got around to reading this one, until a few months ago when I found it at a used book sale.
Part of me wishes I'd read this as a teenager, because I would probably have identified more with Miriam -- not that I don't now, but I also identified with her older sister who was separated from most of her young children, which scares me far more than the other events of this story.I liked the way that Miriam eventually takes responsibility and works to better her situation.
Loved this book. Its written for the younger crowd and based on a true story of a family captured by Native Americans and sold into slavery to the British. Before I read this book, I didn't have a clue that this was apart of the history. It's incredible, the lack of my knowledge, I know. A family of white settlers survives the Indians capture, sold into British slavery, half are thrown in the stockades, and then their journey home. It held my attention several reads through, and its one I'll recommend to my own kids when they're older.
I read this in fifth or sixth grade, and loved it. I appreciate fiesty heroines, of course, but my favorite parts where when the French suitor buys Miriam a cup of real hot chocolate, and when the French governor's wife offers her a luxurious bolt of fabric and she gives it to her good friend Hortense. Oh! I love this book. Where is my copy? Gotta read it again...
Actual rating: 3.5/5 starsI was thrilled to be reading this book, having recently read and adored Elizabeth’s other novel, ‘The Witch of Blackbird Pond’. I didn’t like the story in this novel as much as I did in the other one, although I still enjoyed it and rated it 3.5/5 stars. The writing was wonderful, it was well paced, I just didn’t find the story all that interesting. This novel featured many wonderful characters and messages, such as faith, hope, and sacrifice. I loved our main character
I didn’t like the story in this novel as much as I did in the other one, although I still enjoyed it and rated it 3.5/5 stars.
This novel featured many wonderful characters and messages, such as faith, hope, and sacrifice.
She always believed that things would turn out alright, and I loved seeing her character develop throughout the course of this novel.
Here’s a quote from the novel that I thought represented her character development well:	“Miriam felt astonished at herself.
Being brought to a strange new country, to work as slaves, they had faith.
I love the high-spirited, red-haired main character, Miriam Willard, as well as her delightful, and good natured, best friend, Hortense.
I'm sure that one of the reasons I enjoyed this book so much is because C.M. Herbert did such an excellent job of reading it.
I listened to the Blackstone Audiobook version on CD and Ms. Herbert did a beautiful job, especially on the characters with French accents.
I couldn't wait to put the next CD in so I could find out what would happen next.So basically what I'm saying is, Calico Captive is very well written and well worth the read.
There is just the right mix of adventure, suspense, romance, friendship, and character growth .
I think this would make a great movie, if done right.
Elizabeth George Speare is a master at bringing history alive, and this book is no exception.
It made me want to read more books that take place in New France and/or during the French and Indian War.
(hide spoiler)]Highly recommended.P.S. I like the fact that this has illustrations.
Maybe it's just me, but young adult and adult books don’t seem to have illustrations as much as they used to.
This book is based on a true story of a family living in Connecticut during the French and Indian war.
The family is kidnapped by Indians who had sided with the French.
Speare takes the story and tells it from the younger sister's point of view.
Though this is the only book Speare was not recognized by the Newberry people for, it is still a wonderful read.
I love Miriam's courage not only in the face of the Indians but also her gumption when faced with the proper French.
Calico Captive is one of my favorite books from childhood; I picked it up in the library when I was 9 or 10 and consistently returned to it over time.The story is set during the French and Indian Wars before the American Revolution; the main character, Miriam, lives with her sister, Susannah and her husband and several small children.
My favorite parts of the books were the descriptions of the French people who lived in Montreal at the time, and their balls and lifestyle.
This is one of my favorite novels from my elementary school days when I was infatuated with Native Americans and their customs.
The novel is based upon the story of Susanna Johnson (although the story is centered around her younger sister, Miriam) a captive of the Abenakis Indians.
Along with her family, Miriam is taken away from home and traded from the Indian society into an elite French community.
I picked this one up again because I recall how taken by it I was when I first read it; though it was not as powerfully effective as it was at age 10, I found it still to be an entertaining read.
This book left me sooo mad. And I really don't know why. A typical story of a young girl kidnapped by Indians and how she earned her freedom. However, she ends up dumping a couple guys along the way, and although I don't necessarily think she should have married them like they wanted her too, she got rid of them in a shameful and disgraceful way. She had no concern for their feelings. Okay for younger readers, however, I would, as a parent, discuss the views of Miriam and her suitors with my child.
I grew up spending part of each summer in the mountains where I would pretend I was an 'Indian,' meaning that I would try to walk without leaving sign, learn to recognize plants that were edible, listen to what the birds were 'saying,' learn by watching animal behaviors ... all of which was good for developing observational skills.Thus, stories about Indian captives always intrigued me. This one was especially appealing since it is based on an actual abduction.
I wish I had read this book as a fifth or sixth grader, because it would have been my favorite (just like The Witch of Blackbird Pond). I loved how feisty the heroine is, even when she gets wrapped up in wanting to be glamorous, and I really didn't expect the ending, but it was definitely believable. Also, because I am super nerdy, I went from liking it to loving it when I found out it was based on a true story.
This was nice, I wish there was more info on the Native Americans but it was a quick read. A little simplistic, but YA in the '50 was not what it is today. For the life of me I could not understand why Miriam didn't stay with Pierre since she didn't really spend that much time with Phineas Whitney, but who am I to judge.
Elizabeth George Speare is one of my favorite girlhood authors. Every book I've read by her has been excellent. I loved the romance and adventure this book held and also the strong themes of marital love, friendship, and family ties. Ms. Speare is an excellent writer! Highly recommended!
My oldest read this over vacation and really enjoyed it! :)
This book was pretty good. I generally like EGS books. It is about colonial America as well as about France and Native Americans. It has action and a trace of romance
The portrayal of the American Indians is problematic, which I think you'd expect from a 1950s book.
But while far from issue-free, I think it is a better portrayal than a lot of books of the era, and what I didn't realize until I started reading is the vast majority of the book is not about the girls being captives of American Indians at all, it's about them being captives of the French in Montreal.
Miriam is a relatable and her journey is interesting, even if some of the other characters seem a little like caricatures.
Well-written historical fiction for young people. There aren't many stories set in colonial America during the Seven Years/French & Indian War. I loved this story when I was elementary-age. At that time, the early part of the story detailing Miriam and her family's lives with Native Americans was my favorite part of the book. Decades later, I find Miriam's life in Montreal more interesting. Since this makes up about 3/4 of the story, it was a nice change from my original readings!
In fact, after I finished it the first time, I immediately ran out to find what else Elizabeth George Speare had written and the first one I came across was CALICO CAPTIVE.
In many ways, CALICO CAPTIVE echoes the richness and beauty of The Witch of Blackbird Pond, and at the same time it is quite a different story.
In the middle of the night their homestead is attacked by Indians bent on capturing the family and marching them all the way to Montreal to be sold into slavery.
My 11-year-old daughter and I both enjoy historical fiction.
This account is roughly based on a true story of some English colonists taken captive from a fort in New Hampshire by the Abenaki and later the French in Montreal.
I knew almost nothing about the French and Indian war before reading this book.
My daughter and I enjoyed looking up the towns on the map, seeing the path they were forced to walk, etc.
The idea that Miriam could become a coveted dressmaker for the fashionable ladies in Montreal is a little far-fetched, but fun.
The writing was just a little choppy, but overall a wonderful read.
