https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/664947.Requiem_for_a_Wren
The thing that keeps me coming back to Shute--and has made him one of my favorites--is his wonderful leading female characters.
As with many of Shute's books, this story was largely set during WWII.
And although that was a horrible time for many people, of course, as one of the characters in this book points out, it had to have been at least somewhat exciting in places too....And how do you go back to real life after that?
I'm trying to guess how many books I've read which in one way or another are about the Second World War. I've read a couple just in the last month, Wilcox's  Japan's Secret War  and Linebarger's  Psychological Warfare . As usual, I was gripped by two contradictory emotions: horror and fascination. I think most people have a similar reaction. The war was monstrous and appalling, but it was also the most exciting, extraordinary period in human history. New techniques, new ideas, new ways of thinki
I'm trying to guess how many books I've read which in one way or another are about the Second World War. I've read a couple just in the last month, Wilcox's 
It was to win the war.These thoughts are not, of course, new, and they've been expressed many times.
I don't think though that I've ever seen them expressed in quite such a pure form as in this obscure novel.
I don't think Shute knew either: my feeling is that he was just describing something he'd seen himself, in slightly fictionalised form, because it disturbed him so much and he had to get it out of his system.
Requiem For A Wren by Nevil Shute Shute reveals the end at the beginning, but only part of it, the devastating part.
I had no idea that there was such a thing as Ordinance Wrens in the War. They were an integral part of the War Effort and they suffered as much of what we know now as PTSD as any of the soldiers that saw action.
Even knowing of the eventual end of the pivotal character does not take away from the dramatic tension Shute creates throughout the story.
Re-reading is something I avoid, along with watching movies or TV shows a second time.
There's always a cracking story and the life - and death - of Leading Wren Janet Prentice is a heart-breaker.
If you think the descriptions of the build-up to the Invasion have a powerful realism, you won't be surprised to know that Shute was there at the time as a naval Lt. Commander and that his day job was designing some of the secret and weird new weapons used on June 6th.
Shute has crafted an emotional story as pertinent today as at any time.
كانت تجربتي الأأولى مع الكاتب هي مدينة مثل أليس وكانت مشجعة كثيرافتشجعت لتكرار التجربة ثانية وما شجعنى أكثر أنها صدرت في سلسلة روايات الهلال العريقةلكن للأسف الترجمة كانت مملة للغاية وركيكة في بعض الأحيانكما أن نيفيل شوت إختار أكثر من راوي للأحداث فشتتنيأقل مما توقعت
Sometimes I think I am just not that good at reading some kinds of mainstream fiction.
I am too easily aggravated.
It's not like I only read science fiction, or even that science fiction is devoid of characters or plots that piss me the hell off.
Still, I have even less patience for those elements when they come wrapped in mundanity.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Nostalgic needs nabbed Nevil by the novelistic 'nads and gnawed them to nubbins.
The only reason I read this all the way to the end was because I wanted to know how Janet Prentice ended up at Coombargana.
I'm giving it two stars rather than one because Shute demonstrates very well how people who have served in a great war are at loose ends when the war is over.
They find themselves wishing for another war so their lives can once again have meaning and camaraderie.
Can't say I'd recommend the book, though.
Dreadfully dull, and that's coming from someone who usually enjoys WWII novels.
Requiem for a Wren starts from the end of story, when Alan is after long years coming back to Coombargana in Australia to visit his old parents and stay forever.
Younger brother Bill is in love with the leading navy wren Janet Prentice, they are just getting to know each other.
One day she is meeting Alan Duncan the older brother, pilot and she is impressed by him.
One day a plane is flying over their ship and she shoots ir down, but at the end the plane and people in it are Czechs, Poles who wanted to join their side.
Their small museum had a feature about Neville Shute's Requiem for a Wren but I had no idea what the display was about.A day or so later I was in Plymouth and walked into a used bookshop near Sutton Harbour.
First book I spotted was Requiem for a Wren!
I was fated to buy the book.Glorious read and the first "war book" that spoke of the postwar stresses...
not PTSD but "war is over!
The war is over and everything is now an anticlimax.
Great book, great read and gives a perspective you never hear about these days.
One of this authors more outstanding works, very sad, but a really good read.
This is my second Nevil Shute book and twice in a row, I have fallen in love with his superb love stories and totally awesome strong women.
Also, before I forget, let me tell you that this is I guess second book in a long long time which actually made me super emotional and tears actually rolled down my eyes with a huge lump in my throat almost the size of a basketball :).
As I said this was my second Nevil Shute book and what amazed me again is that in both the books, his women characters are super strong and totally amazing.
interesting read based around the time of the D Day landings and relationships between 2 brothers and a WREN who later appears in Australia after the war and the events around DDay and her life until that fateful day as researched by the remaining brother.
A wonderful depiction of what it's like to live through a time of great danger and excitement, and to find meaning for yourself in that experience. But then that time ends, and life goes on, and it is so very difficult to be unimportant, and not very good at anything in particular. Shute somehow balances this and keeps interest throughout in our lead character, whether she's excelling herself or hiding away, unable to face the world any more. She never seems less than real. I cried for her.
Another great novel by Shute. The only thing I didn't like was the ending, you got the feeling that you knew this was coming the whole time but hoped it happened in a more convenient way than it did. Chapter 10 felt like it was written in a bit of a hurry! But nonetheless, an excellent & emotional book to read!
My review is on my book blog: https://afondnessforreading.wordpress...
Shute’s saga involves the wartime exploits and subsequent search of former RAF pilot Alan Duncan for a Wren that was involved with his brother in WWII.
Shute was an engineer and a RAF pilot, and his experiences provides a nuts and bolts approach to wartime work, duties involving both risk and boredom amid day to day living.
So many novels explore the excitement and danger of war but provide little insight into what that work actually involves.
Shute’s novel goes into great deal of the work of the Wrens, scuba divers and pilots in the war.
Requiem for a wren is a brilliant story.
I took it up one afternoon and couldn't put it down till it was finished.Having not read anything by Nevil Shute before, it first looked like a sort of detective story to me, "The mystery of the dead parlour-maid " or something.
It's a sad and very realistic story of WWII.
Shute brilliantly depicts the psychology of the individuals involved in war and follows them after the war.
individuals who defined their existence and the purpose of their lives through their taking part in the action and then the listlessness they experience after it's all over.
This is such a good book. Nevil Shute has never disappointed me.
Nevil Shute has such an interesting way of writing and once again in this book I felt that I was discovering how the character thought and felt as he muddled his way through life.
Nevil also describes the difficulty people had in finding those who had once been close in a narrative that is a bit like a tv crime drama - what will happen next?One thing I truly love about his writing is his understanding of Australia and its people.
The convoluted narrative structure didn't do the tale any favors here, and it often made no logical sense.
(How could the narrator have known the Wren never spoke of X or had a sleepless night, when none of his informants or the diary told him so?) In a sense, it's a tale of a female British WW II combatant suffering from PTSD...and of the men who loved her.
But as with Pied Piper, Shutes seems to be hanging on to a Victorian novel structure, with a framing narrative device that isn't necessary.
But....I have a stack of five more Shutes from my underfunded library, where nothing is ever thrown away, but if any more use a framing device, I'll give those a pass.
I love reading Nevil Shute books. They are always very interesting. This one got almost too heavy into the artillery and details that I was a little lost for awhile but in the end , the whole story came together. A sad but good read.
This is well written but dated. The authors ingrained attitude towards women is offensive to us today. Enjoyed the story though and it really made me think about how little one really knows about the effects of war unless you are in it.
The story of Alan Duncan begins with his homecoming to Coombargana, a sheep farming station in the Western District of Australia. On the day before his return, the trusted parlor maid on the station, of whom his parents were very fond, died in her room unexpectedly; coincidence?
In 1985-86 I read my way through every Nevil Shute I could get my hands on!
far from perfect in its execution, but pretty damn good in what it has to say...
This was slow to build, but poignant in the end. Another WWII narrative of the individual impact of war. Nevil Shute is a writer I would definitely recommend.
Do you like tear-jerkers? If yes, read this. But don't listen to it. Read it. Go to your library and get it.
Aka The Breaking wave
Then it goes back and tells you what happened to make things come out that way.Janet Prentice was a WREN in England in WW2, and she was a good one.
But sometimes needs must, and it was her shooting down a plane that changed her life.After her lover Bill was killed in the war, Janet was at loose ends.
She found some solace looking after others (her mother, an aunt, and finally the mother and father of her lover), but in the end she felt that she was in a corner with no way out.And that's what so heartbreaking.
Alan Duncan reluctantly returns home to his parents' farm in Australia after the war, to recuperate after being maimed in a plane crash.
And Alan, who is psychologically broken as well as physically, has spent a considerable amount of time trying to find her.Janet was haunted by a decision she made in the course of her war duties.
The cruellest accident of all is Alan's arrival at the house in Australia, too late to meet her in person.
As we read, the pressure of this timing grows to tragic proportions; if he had come home just a few months earlier, would that have saved Janet in some way?
