https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29289.Lentil
I'm giving this five stars for the illustrations.
The words are sweet, but I almost felt that the illustrations told the entire story just as well.
Lentil is the most adorable boy and the story is nostalgic and fun and touching--poor Lentil cannot sing well, or whistle, but he loves music...
so he saves his money to buy a harmonica; and his harmonica playing soon saves the day!
This is from the early 1940s but you could totally picture Opie Taylor from "Andy Griffith" reading this and getting inspired to take up the harmonica like Lentil and parade through Mayberry with his tunes!
Another of my favorite author of children's books. As a child I read all of his books, my favorite always being Homer Price and Make Way for Ducklings. They will go down in history. Plus his illustrations will always remind me of my childhood. Lentil shows show a boy who can't sing can still be musical AND save the day. All children should read this one.
It rather reminds me of McCloskey's Homer Price books. A rather goofy premise (boy playing harmonica) that turns into an entirely comical and unlikely adventure.
The book is cute and is revolved around music. A boy who does not have a lot of musical talent, finds a way to express himself musically through a harmonica. He finds his best place to practice and has fun while walking to school. It is good book.
They make sure that everything is perfect for his arrival and while it may seem such a simple task in the end it becomes difficult because there is this old man named Old Sneep who is a pain in the ass and practically a hobo with grudge and tries to ruin the moment but Lentil saves the day with his harmonica.The illustrations are fantastic as always and my main issue is I couldn't connect to the story and I blame that on the world that I currently live in.
I cannot believe I never read this when I was little.
Lentil, a young boy who cannot pucker his lips, has never been able to sing, nor can he whistle.
What is a boy to do?
He goes to the store and buys a harmonica and plays it all around town all the way to school.
While everyone is preparing for Colonel Carter's return to town, Old Sneep is being an old grouch and decides to suck on a lemon, which causes the band to not play (their lips are too puckered)!.
How will the band and town recover?
You'll just have to read the book.
This is an old 'classic' book, illustrations are black and white but still very adorable. Lentil is a little boy that wants so bad to sing; but he simply can't. So he saves his money and gets a harmonica and teaches himself to play. He plays it everywhere he goes. A big parade to welcome a special town man coming to town is scheduled but when the train arrives with the man the bank can't play! But Lentil brings out his harmonica and saves the day!
I thought this book would be very long, but it's just oversized. The amount of text on the pages isn't too overwhelming. A very cute story about a boy named Lentil who can't sing but learns to play the harmonica instead. Then he and his harmonica help out the town at in a difficult (very funny!) situation.
What a cute classic story. Robert McCloskey knows how to write fun and moralistic stories. The moral of this story: just because you don't have one talent doesn't mean you can't find another and in some way save the day.But don't forget to practice practice practice!!!
A nice old fashioned kind of story about a boy who saves the day with his harmonica. Mr. McCloskey sure liked to draw church steeples. Practically every page has a church in it, and there are at least three churches in the town of Alto, Ohio, judging by the endsheet illustration.
I wish I had known about this book when my oldest son wanted a harmonica for his birthday.
Such a sweet story about a boy who, though not musically inclined, wants to make music.
So he buys a harmonica and practices during every spare moment.
The day comes when that practice comes in handy and he saves the day with his harmonica tunes.
Worthwhile themes such as community, giving and gratitude, perseverance, and following an interest are enhanced and brought to life by McCloskey's recognizable illustrations.
We have several McCloskey books but I'm going to have to add this one to the shelf.
What a blast from the past!
I found a nearly new condition copy of Lentil at a resale shop and bought it for my "Grandma" book shelf because it bears award-winning author Robert McCloskey's name.
But I had forgotten how much I love this one--the illustrations are beautifully done and reflect another time perfectly.
The themes of being yourself, searching until you find your niche, giving to others are all there.
Teachers (and Grandmas) can use this book for teaching so many reading skills or just simply read it for the pleasure of a wonderful story.
Budding artists would do well to study McCloskey's talents as an illustrator.
Ugh!
There were many annoying factors to this story - the hero worshipping, the playing nice to get money from the rich guy, the supreme maleness of the book (I am giving allowances for that given the time the book was written), the requirement that the reader stretch credulity to the ridiculousness (and I give no allowances for that).
BUT the main part that irked me was this book was obviously written by someone who knows nothing about playing band instruments, and yet he not only chose to write about that, but to make it a feature part of the story.
Ugh!It's a shame too because the illustrations were great.
I did not learn to whistle until I was 16, so this was another book, like Whistle for Willie, that would have been an encouragement to me then. My children were more fascinated with the lemon and harmonica themes here.
LOVE. I discovered this book while grabbing "Make Way For Ducklings" and I'm glad I did! "Lentil" is an adorable story about a boy who can't sing, so he learns the harmonica, a skill that comes in unexpectedly handy one day. 5 stars from me--AND from my 1st and 2nd grade class.
A fun story that has humorous, unpredictable twists and is charming! Just start reading it and you'll see.McCloskey's illustrations are a delight and I'm going to name him the "Children's Norman Rockwell" as he does such a fabulous job capturing old town America.Ages 3+
Fun!
Lemons always sound good when I read this book.
One of our favorite picture books of the year!
A cute story about persevering at something you want to do... it just might save the day!
I have always loved McCloskey’s illustrations. The Homer Price books were grade school favorites. I read this one because Ted Kooser mentioned loving it when he was young.
Lentil saves the day when the town grump tries to foil the town celebration for the beloved mayors return to town. "So, you never know what will happen when you learn to play the harmonica!"
Today's children need to read this, if only to see Lentil's bare feet everywhere, even to school. McCloskey definitely deserves all the awards he won as an illustrator. And the story is a hoot.
Named after its main character, Lentil is a story about discovering what makes us unique and using our gifts and abilities to help others.
The whole town gathers at the train station to welcome their most honoured citizen, Colonel Carter, but envious Old Sneep sabotages the event and the band is unable to play.
Artistically, we discussed the illustrations a lot, and we talked about the hard work and dedication required to develop skill with a musical instrument.
My youngest child has been playing the harmonica a lot since reading this book, and has been found in the bathtub with his instrument as well!
For example, the book is set in the fictional town of Alto, Ohio - home of the great Colonel Carter also fictional.
The book is about a boy named Lentil who wants to be able to sing, but when he opens his mouth to only strange sounds come out.
This talent of being able to play the harmonica well leads Lentil to saving the town from a major embarrassment when Colonel Carter returns home.
Lentil is able to counteract a disgruntled citizen's attempt to dishonor the homecoming by playing his harmonica when the town band cannot play their instruments.
This is one of my favorite stories of all time.
Little Lentil is great, but the guy who starts sucking the lemons ...
there is just something about him that makes me laugh, even when I think about him.
Someone who just gets so much pleasure out of spoiling it for everyone else.
Why are people like that so hilarious to me?
McCloskey is a very adored writer in our home.
Of his stories I have read, though, this one is definitely one of the ones I love best.
Probably because that guy who sucks the lemons just makes me laugh.
The illustrations alone make it worthwhile reading--vivid, humorous, and nostalgic (although I guess they weren't nostalgic at the time it was written and first published).
Lentil was a cute kid who didn't give up on his dream, and was rewarded for it.
The story itself seemed far-fetched to me in several ways (Don't you purse your lips to play a harmonica too?
It's been awhile since I've played around with one.), but this is a kids' book, so I guess it's not as big of a deal.
Definitely a cute and encouraging book to share with kids in your life.
This is a pleasant story from a bygone era.
I wonder if children today would find it interesting and yet, the story's plot is used all the time in contemporary fiction for young people: an event is about to happen, the grown-ups bungle it, a young person—in this case Lentil—saves the day.
But this is not an action-packed page turner by today's standards, the story is not over-the-top wacky, and Lentil's actions are far from heroic, yet he saves the day.
The difference between this story and so many stories for today is that a young person actually could do what Lentil did.
Themes: Overcoming adversity, Practicing, Bravery, Unexpected Triumphs, MusicThis is a charming story and the penciled artwork added to that element. The interactions from the animals towards Lentil as he pursued his talents are quite cute and expressive. There are a lot of directional, spatial prepositions.*Spoiler* The last page jarred the story in a different direction with the moral of the story but it was fun anyhow.
Lentil can't sing and he can't whistle, so he takes up the harmonica and practices every day. When the town's philanthropist comes home and the residents want to give him a grand welcome, Lentil's harmonica skills save the day from the devious plans of grumpy Old Sneep.This book now gives kids a story not only of how music can save the day, but also of what life was like 50 years ago in small towns in America. It's a good pick for historical fiction reads or a music read.
