https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43917.Rise_of_a_Merchant_Prince
4 to 4.5 stars - the continuing saga of the Kingdom of Midkemia vs the Emerald Queen.This book was very entertaining! While it stood on its own, it is very obviously part of the larger Serpentwar Saga. The main focus here is Roo and his interests in business (view spoiler)[he is the Merchant Prince from the title. (hide spoiler)]. I may have not always understood what was happening as I do not have an accounting background, but it was interesting to read about the characters' rise from poverty t
4 to 4.5 stars - the continuing saga of the Kingdom of Midkemia vs the Emerald Queen.This book was very entertaining!
While it stood on its own, it is very obviously part of the larger Serpentwar Saga.
The main focus here is Roo and his interests in business (view spoiler)[he is the Merchant Prince from the title.
(hide spoiler)].
Finally, a genre novel that -- at least partially -- pays homage to the more mundane.Do you every get tired of fantasy novels that lean completely on the crutch of cliche?
Do you ever long for a novel that exists in a fantasy world, but explores the life of a relatively normal fellow?No?
I, on the other hand, long to see the daily life of someone who has a real job and normal set of responsibilities in an otherwise spectacular setting.Meet Rupert Avery, a guy with merchant dreams, a go-getter attitude, and some really powerful friends.
Instead, he embraces them, he explores them, and Rupert becomes a far more interesting character for it.
I wasn't a fan of Shadow of a Dark Queen, and I was even less interested in this book.The story focuses on a character who was extremely wimpy and boring in the first book, and all this one does in its 400+ pages is show us how despicable a person he really is as he becomes the city's richest man--marrying for money and power, cheating on his wife, neglecting his children, killing rival business men--anything for power and money.
For the life of me, I cannot remember why I ever loved this book because it was mostly the Erik parts that kept me going this time around.
Yes, Roo seems somewhat less despicable by the time to book ends, but he never realises how he behaved, never tried to make amends.
As far as characters go, Jimmy and Dash are the only interesting ones in the Krondor storyline in my opinion.
Jason is more or less walking book keeping software, Luis has lost pretty much all of his Luis-ness and, well, you could tell Duncan was going to double cross Roo from page 1.
Yet again I found myself unable to put the book down and once again I was pretty disappointed when I did.
Now we're making some food." If that were the only shortcoming though I would have been pretty pleased with the progress made.
The real disappointment was the fall of the hereto lovable character Roo from clever wily adventurer and the kind of character you can't help but enjoy to the vessel of Mr. Feist's unfulfilled sexual fantasies.
If he had spent as much time with the oncoming holocaust as he did with Roo's extramarital exploits we wouldn't need two more books to finish the dang story.
Disappointing.
Maar bij e personages waar dit echt moest is dit gelukkige wel gebeurt.Het plot is weer vlot geschreven zoals we van Raymond e Feist gewend zijn.
Alsook word er in het plot rekening gehouden met wat er in het vorig boek gebeurt is en wat de andere personages uit dit boek aan het doen zijn.Zo word de connectie niet verloren voor het verdere verloop van de serie.Het slot is nu wel niet van de verrassende soort maar zet wel de poort open naar het derde deel.Conclusie: Een vlot geschreven ,spannend boek.Het is wel aangeraden om het eerste deel van de serie gelezen te hebben alvorens te starten met dit deel.
Raymond Feist wrote a set of hugely entertaining novels back in the 80's concerning magicians and whatnot: the Riftwar Saga ended up becoming a million copy bestseller and spawned new stories.
'Rise of a Merchant Prince', however, deals almost exclusively with Rupert's rise in the business world of Krondor and the Kingdom.Feist actually kept me close to this book with his slow build.
Feist nicely dovetails this into the main narrative, which will be picked up in the 'Demon King' as the unholy army approaches the Kingdom and Rupert's wealth will have to be called upon.Erik is barely present after the first 50 pages, so we do not get to know him very well.
Not the best book I have read by R.E.F, but still have the book hangover that comes from finishing a good book when you are left just wanting more.
The book does drag in places and the plot following Roo is dull compared to the action of Shadow of a Dark Queen and the action parts of the book where Calis, Miranda, Erik & Bobby DeLongville are fighting the distant enemy.Really enjoyed the characters of Jimmy and Dash being brought in for roguish charm as well as Luis managing to return to the Kingdom.
Duke James was also a wonderful edition, nice to see Jimmy the Hand after he has become respectable.
An amiable enough read. The machinations of a would be merchant in a swords and sorcery world. The back plot to the four books seemed a bit of an afterthought to the story of Roo Avery, rising merchant, and it felt as if Feist wanted to write this tale, and somehow tie it in to the series.Nothing ground breaking, and as I took a month to read it, it can't have been that gripping. Not a 4*, better than 3, just a slightly different take on standard fantasy fare.
Far more complex in terms of character personality and plot, this book oddly lacks the charm of Rise of the Dark Queen. Roo is shown to be a disgusting character even more than could have been guessed at previously. I found myself wishing for greater exposition of Erik's story line and less on the business deals conducted by Roo. However, I will say that the jargon was fairly limited in terms of business as even I was able to grasp most of what was going on.
I hadn't read Feist since the Riftwar Saga and the Empire Trilogy.This was another hair razing, rapidly paced adventure! I couldn't put these books down.I was on a climbing trip in France for 2 weeks or so and read the first 3 books.Same complaint as always... the characters are pretty safe, but they are so fun and colorful and the adventure and story are top notch!
Have re-read this several times. Not because it's taught me anything but because it's really well-written, I like the changes in narrative focus and how they are handled. There's always a sense of lots of things going on in different places, but it's never confusing. Actually the first Raymond Feist I ever read, and now I've read loads.
Very little magic (read:cloak) and knight (read:dagger) action in here, but lot of trade exchange manipulation with catching adventure story.
Just love how Feist develops the characters over time in his books, not all at once, or not at all. Amazing books and storytelling that I feel is overlooked by most.
I didn't like the books of the Serpentwar Saga as much as the original trilogy, and don't actually remember much about them beyond the fact that I did enjoy reading them.
Roo is not a simple character, and he's a bit of a jerk.Because of the limitations in scope of this story, there is very little in the way of high fantasy.
But it makes for a good story anyway, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.Here's the problem.
This is the second part of "The Serpentwar Saga", so Feist feels honor bound to advance the overall plot.
The way he does this is only tangentially related to the main arc of the book.
They are the eggs of the Pantathians, and that's what it has to do with advancing the story.
It doesn't make for a good overall book.
This was certainly a fantasy story with a difference. It continues the story of Roo and Erik first introduce in Shadow of Dark Queen having returned from their adventures to receive royal pardons. The story is in a way a filler between the destruction of the Serpent Queen’s fleet and its being rebuilt and ready for her planned invasion.  The focal point of the novel is Roo and his desire to become a rich merchant. As his character develops he becomes a much less likeable person than we first me
It continues the story of Roo and Erik first introduce in Shadow of Dark Queen having returned from their adventures to receive royal pardons.
The focal point of the novel is Roo and his desire to become a rich merchant.
As we see him attempt to make money his character seems to undergo a change.
He becomes obsessed with making money and apparently his morals seem to have disappeared.
There is apparently no under hand trick he won’t stoop to in order to meet his desire.
For large parts of the story focused on Roo making money I was wondering where it was going.
This book continues the story established in "Shadow of a Dark Queen," but really takes it to another level.
The key difference is that instead of telling a straightforward fantasy adventure story as in the first book, Feist's main story is about commerce: a greedy, morally questionable fellow doing what it takes to get filthy rich.
In the background, the warriors and wizards of the prior volume continue their struggle against an advancing dark army.Adding the viewpoint of Roo to the existing ones of Erik and Miranda helps a lot, in part because Roo's a much more interesting character.
Erik's ultimately pretty boring and conventional, and Miranda is largely a cypher, but Roo is deeply flawed.
Rise of a Merchant Prince was one of the books I was most looking forward to rereading for my Midkemia Reread as I adore Roo. And while it was still an entertaining read, my enjoyment of the book was somewhat affected by changes in how I look at the world. Or rather, some of Roo's actions bothered me far more than they've ever done. Still, I really enjoyed the economic aspects of this novel and any scene Erik was in and, in the end, Rise of the Merchant Prince remains quite entertaining.If  Shad
Rise of a Merchant Prince was one of the books I was most looking forward to rereading for my Midkemia Reread as I adore Roo. And while it was still an entertaining read, my enjoyment of the book was somewhat affected by changes in how I look at the world.
Still I hope both she and, more importantly, her father get their comeuppance in the next book.While Rise of a Merchant Prince is largely Roo's story, there is a parallel arc in which Erik accompanies Calis and another hand-picked group of soldiers back down to Novindus on a mission to strike at the heart of the Panthatians' society.
This was a bit of a disappointment.
It started off okay, and I actually enjoyed the economic/merchant aspect, but Roo's behavior in this novel was pretty despicable.
The other part of this book that was disappointing was the haphazard and rushed treatment of the storylines that were not Roo's.
I would have liked to hear more about Erik, Calis, Nakor, & Sho Pi. We do hear from them from time to time, but only a few pages here and there and then again at the end where the story is very rushed.
A very uneven book, but I will still be reading on because I love Midkemia.
Following up from the first book in the series, the two friends Erik and Roo are back from their mission.
Roo wants to set himself up as a wealthy merchant, while Erik signs up for a special forces type of life and is sent back to serpent island to spy out what's going on and see if he can slow them down.We mostly follow Roo, as he builds up his position and fortune in the city, marrying his partner's daughter and then paying her hardly any attention as his mind's set on the money and a more attractive lady.
Starts out slow for me, coming off the previous book that was even slower.
The jumping around did bring me out of the story a bit, and it felt very abrupt to me.
I will continue this series and see how things come together.
It seems that is how these books are, can drag and sometimes I don't see the point until he brings it all around together to make sense.
This does end on somewhat a cliffhanger so there were many things left unsatisfied that I hope will have a worthwhile conclusion in the next couple books.
This one didn't grip me as much as the last.
It's primarily about Roo and his rise to riches, which started off fun, but then got a bit tedious.
I liked his character in the last book, he reminded me of Matt from the Wheel of Time series as they're both mischievous and cunning.
However I didn't like Roo so much once he started becoming successful.
There also wasn't much progression of the main story line, but the bits we did have were more interesting than Roo's personal story.
Hopefully the next one is better and Roo stops being a jerk.
Roo is not a nice character and reading about him was boring and irritating. The whole time I wanted his fortune to fall afoul of his vile nature. Neither has Feist improved on his character development, plot development, or world-building. In fact, this book has next to nothing to do with the Serpentwar. An all-time low for Feist.
The majority of this story ist about Roo's rise as a merchant in Krondar, but also Erik and Calis and Nakor's efforts to save the world from the Emerald Queen. I found myself not liking Roo as much towards the end of this story as I did in the beginning and there were some editing problems. Still a good story.
Riveting!I couldn't put it Down! Totally enjoyed following the exploits of Eric and Roo and I have to start the next book right now because I have to know what happens next. Loved this book as much as the first.
Although I now find I've started reading The Sepentwar Saga in the middle of a series, and this explains my lack of knowledge in some areas, I'm still enjoying the story immensely. The commardarie between the main characters is uplifting, and sorrowful when friendships are lost.
I have loved all of Feist's books so far, but I just found myself not liking the protagonist. I actually found myself rooting for his enemies in the novel. The book might be worth reading by skipping all of the parts involving Roo and focusing on the side-story with Erik instead.
Will my love for economic fantasy ever be realized?..Not here for sure. Methods are rather dubious an shady, writing is jerky and new characters are rather bland and unremarkable.Swashbuckling is good, but unfortunately it wasn't enough to make it a likable book.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
