https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34225781-you-can-t-keep-a-good-woman-down
For that reason I think of Walker’s short stories as essays, in a sense.Walker discusses lots of topics, including difficult ones such as interracial relationships, abortion, and pornography.
Walker managed to address so many things that I’ve been thinking about art and appropriation, and she also got me thinking about the disparity between group needs and what people from other groups (race, class, gender, etc.), think they want; this is something that she illustrates quite well without explicitly stating it as such.I know a little about the history of black music in the States and of how it has often been appropriated.
I really do prefer Walker's novels to her short stories. "The Color Purple" is an undisputed classic & Walker's main master work. "The Third Life of Grange Copeland" is a brutal tale that spectacularly transcends the characters themselves-- it was anecdote and myth made tangible. Walker is like Woolf in that she creates a creature made up of atmosphere and stalled, lonesome expectation alone. Here in this particular short story collection, she's all about women's independence & personal freedom.
Alice Walker deals with some pretty serious topics (rape, murder, etc.), but a lot of the time I never felt like I was reading from a character's point of view, instead just Walker's.
I would love to read her in a non-fiction guise as she is incredibly passionate with a lot of knowledge to share.Saying that, there were some stories in here that I really enjoyed and made me think.
For real.I'm glad that I read this collection, as it is different from a lot of short story collections I have read before, and I'm glad I gave Alice Walker another chance after not really enjoying The Color Purple all that much.
These stories were all written in the 1960s and 1970s, and it helped to remind myself of that context while I read, because they really do capture a very specific moment in time in American feminism, but not only feminism, civil rights in general.
To a strong man a father is not essential.''Maybe not, said Sarah,'but Wright's father was one faulty door in a house of many ancient rooms.
Was that one faulty door to shut him off forever from the rest of the house?'...'...You're thinking of his father more as a symbol of something, aren't you?' asked Pam.'I suppose,' said Sarah, taking a last look around her room.
This short book of short stories is thirty years old.
Some of the stories in the book are over forty years old.
This is a perfect lesson book for me; it is short, to the point, sometimes funny, sometimes challenging.
The settings range back to the 1950s and then through Colored to Negro to Black.If you are old enough to remember the 1960s and 1970s, you may find that this book feels familiar.
Alice Walker is two years older than I am and I wonder what we would have thought of each other if we met in the 1980s when I think we were both pretty radical.
Most of the stories are pretty deep though.
Note: Prior knowledge on the Civil Rights Movement is needed for you to thoroughly appreciate the stories in this book.My favorite stories were: "How Did I Get Away With Killing The Biggest Lawyers in the State?
It Was Easy" (crazy story!
Some women are crazy yo.
Loved it)"Coming Apart" (I think every married couple should read this story- together.
There weren't many gory descriptions, but it was just sad and miserable - from beginning to end)"Laurel" (pretty creepy story hahaa) "A Sudden Trip Home In The Spring" (I loved the calmness of this story.
Black women who survive(d) in spite of the conditions of the South or wherever they are placed.One of my favourite stories in this book is 'Coming Apart'.
'A Letter of the Times' is also an important story/fictional letter.I think it's important to read writers who are women - and women of colour to be precise - because we come to learn a little more about the world.
We come out of the process 'enlarged', with a little more understanding about women (of colour) and their experiences.
You don't have to like what you read/hear/learn.
3.5/5my first time reading alice walker and it was kind of a disappointment.
3 stars.how did i get away with killing one of the biggest lawyers in the state?
it was easy.: beautiful in its ugliness.
1 star.advancing luna: layers.
layers.
layers.
4 stars.laurel: too ugly.
[no rating.]a letter of the times, or should this sado-masochism be saved?: 3 stars.a sudden trip home in the spring: lifeless.
2 stars.source: anastasia is one of the most distateful characters i've ever had the displeasure of reading about.
1 star.the short biography + photos at the end at least in my edition were a lovely addition!
Each and every one of these stories has a moment that takes your breath away - Walker creates this perfect, revealing web of circumstances in each story, only to sum up the situation - whether through the words of a character, or a reflection, by saying so much with so little.
I've wanted to read this book for a long time and I'm so glad I finally did.
I would love to pull out the most powerful quotes of each story here, but I feel that would do injustice to them as a whole.
Read it for yourself and see.
Well worth the time.
After the wonder that was her debut novel and this wonderfully written and painfully human collection of short stories, Alice Walker is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors.
In this short story collection, you're going to find the complex lives of several different women.
The only thing I can call this collection is human.
It's just so powerful, and I could definitely feel the callbacks to so many great authors in the African-American tradition (like the use of a certain rat).
Even if you're not well-versed in African-American literature, I recommend you pick this book up (or Walker's debut novel).
The cover and title of this book belied its content. At first thinking perhaps it had more to do with surface level relationships - but then quickly realized (shamefully) that the author is of course Alice Walker and anything less than well balanced, sincere, and powerfully intuitive would simply not do. Loved it, hard to believe I had not read it sooner!
How does she do so much in just ten pages??We wrestle along with our characters as they spar along with various topics and how they relate to their particular lives--racism, abortion, rape, pornography (reading these stories as I waited for my first graders to come back from lunch made me feel rather deliciously scandalous)--but the questions they are asking never take away from the worlds they create and define for themselves.
Partly because the characters were so completely distinct--different lives, situations, interests, even (take note, Jhumpa Lahiri) social class backgrounds; and probably partly because I find these themes quite easy to relate to.At any rate, I absolutely loved this book and didn't want it to end.
Giving this 5 stars because it deserves it. Some stories I absolutely adored (The Lover, Petunias, Laurel), some I enjoyed a great deal (The Abortion, A Sudden Trip Home....), others I just enjoyed and a few went over my head. The latter due to ignorance on my part and not having lived in/studied the history of the States. All that being said- this deserves 5 stars and on a re-read I'm sure it will feel like 5 stars to myself at least. 5 stars because this is the kind of fiction the world needs more of.
This is one I need to read again and again because not only are the stories here so honest- sometimes joyful, sometimes discomfiting- but they stretched my definition of what it means to be a feminist. Wonderful work. Alice Walker is an American treasure.
in a word: thought-provoking
Love it. Alice Walker is fantastic. She writes stories that make you think. They are stories you can read several times and always learn something new.
This short story collection is my first Alice Walker, and it centers around women, race, love, sexuality, family, and many other aspects of life I never really deeply thought about before.
Things like the society's views on black men marrying white women (or vice versa), rape, the hardships of living as a black woman in America, abortion, all were discussed in the short stories here.
I'm very interested to read Alice Walker's novels, and I think I might like them more than her short stories.Bookmarks:That month with Luna of approaching new black people very day taught me something about myself I had always suspected: I thought black people superior to people.
In Coming apart (my favorite of them all), a husband is forced to deal with his own attitude towards Sadomasochism in regards to women of certain beauty standards and his detachment from his own identity while his wife navigates through the struggle of the black woman, what it means to be a womenist contrary to a feminist, the system that has failed to fight for her and how slavery has shaped the mentality of her people even after its eradication.
In these short stories Ms. Walker writes about characters and situations that we can find at least one we can identify with. Ms. Walker's writing is so good you read one story and then you have to read one more and before you know it the book is done - so you read it again.
From the back:"A natural evolution from the earlier, much acclaimed short story collection In Love and Trouble, these fourteen provocative and often humorous stories show women oppressed but not defeated.
the women here claim every bit of space they make.These are modern stories: About love, lust, fame, and cultural thievery; the perils of pornography, abortion, and rape; the delight of new lovers; and the rediscovery of old friends, affirmed even across self-imposed color lines." My remarks:A delightful read of some of Alice Walker's earlier work.
Her voice is strong and confident; her characters well-drawn and complex; and all the stories make you think.
This is a great collection of stories that cover a range of themes.
Her piece about a Black woman author writing about a white woman's rape by a Black man during voter registration drives in the South during the Civil Rights era...it's amazing.
She captures the basic reality of life and its total complications.
The short story she wrote as an introduction to a book section of Third World Women of Color writing about pornography...another gem that once again captures the complicated knots that lie under apparently simple situations like a wife's perspective on a husband looking at porn.
There are a couple more about porn that are also great.
This is a collection of short stories highlighting fictional lives of women in history, indicating they could be any of us women.
Alice Walker is a great writer and I learn something new or a new way of seeing a situation every time I read her work.
One of the stories "Coming Apart" had a passage that was so true throughout time: 'Because from my point of view, racism is everywhere, including in the women's movement, and the only times I really need to say anything about it is when I do not see it.....and the first time that happens, I will tell you about it.'Overall, its a book worth reading.

These short stories are at times shocking, at all times thought-provoking and forever a wonderfully written recounting of the black and feminist struggle for civil rights. As an elderly white man, one is left with the depressing realization that for all that one sympathizes with, and supports the movement, one will never fully understand what "it" has been like, and still is like, in the U.S. of A for black men and women, and that there is indeed still a stain of fear (not hatred or loathing), driven merely by race that taints all of us.
This was pretty heavy handed. Detailing rape, pornography, abortion, marriage, sex, childbirth, female friendship, revolution and activism, and general injustice, this book was just a little bit too much. I did really enjoy one of the stories, Advancing Luna, which reminded me of Meridian, the other Alice Walker book I've read. But the others were kinda...eh. I'm glad I read it though. That said, I think I'm going to have to take a break from African American Lit after this semester, too sad.
I began revisiting Walker's writing while developing the lead character of my latest novel (the MC namechecks Walker as her fave author). For the sake of time, I chose to read some of Walker's short story collections. This array of stories contains some that really resonated with me: Porn, Nineteen Fifty Five, and Coming Apart have already been bookmarked for rereading. I'll be starting In Love & Trouble next.
In happy timing it turned out to have been super useful to have read Steppenwolf before reading these stories. Clearly a very formative work for the author and there was definitely that willingness to explore down through the mire of humanness. The stories were all engaging and tackled elements of race and womanhood and activism so fearlessly, they felt really edifying to read.
So far so good!
Insightful & Brilliant! Excellent Read!
Det fordi jeg virkelig godt kunne lide bogens tematikker.
Den behandler ikke bare det at være kvinde, men det at være en sort kvinde.
Men selvom den tematikkerne var vildt interessante, var der noget ved tonen der gjorde, at jeg simpelthen ikke kunne investere mig i læsningen.
For jeg kan godt lide den, jeg synes bogen er umådeligt vigtig og jeg vil bare så gerne elske den.
You Can't Keep A Good Woman Down  ryger tilbage i reolen, og en dag vil jeg samle den op igen og se om jeg kan få noget andet, eller noget mere ud af den.
