https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39063.Titus_Groan
Peak was a painter, and as a writer he exercises his painterly imagination by creating scenes--particularly his major ones, like the death-duel of Flay and Swelter--as if each moment were a tableau, part of a series of individual canvases.
It serves to preserve these odd, angular characters of his like flies in amber, trapped forever in their traditions like individual frames in an epic film, circumscribed by the labyrinthine spaces of the monstrous castle that is Gormenghast.
I am a hard and critical man, cynical and not easily moved, but there are passages in the Gormenghast series which so shocked me by the force of their beauty that I would close my eyes and snap the book shut, overwhelmed with wonderment, and take a moment to catch my breath.I would drop my head.
He paints each scene, each moment, in such careful, loving, playful detail that it can only be described by the original definition of 'sublime': a vista which is so grand and beautiful that it dwarfs our humanity, evoking a wonder akin to fear.But Peake's writing is not so entirely alienating; on the contrary: he is vividly concerned with life.
Everything had the appearance of being put aside for the moment.”•	“His [Sourdust] face was very lined, as though it had been made of brown paper that had been crunched by some savage hand before being hastily smoothed out and spread over the tissues.”•	The Earl’s life, and to some extent everyone else’s, is governed by detailed and largely pointless arcane ritual.
From its descriptions I expected something different; I thought it would be a very tale with lots of atmosphere of a dark castle with gloomy people living in it.
There was a villain who manipulated events and people into doing his bidding in his quest for more power; the guy brought some excitement to the story, but there were two problems with it.
The pretty descriptions alone could not carry the book for me and it became boring fairly fast.
After finishing the book I was still curious enough to read the synopsis of the second installment on Wikipedia.
I read the synopsis of the last book.
But from the moment when she sees her brother for the first time she feels for him that mixture of pity and tenderness, we could as well call it love, because she senses that except of her Titus is the only one who needs to escape pompous glory of Gormenghast.
I know the title is  Titus Groan  and I believe his time is yet to come.
I like to read a book, or at least books that are considered classics or the best of their genre, with a clear and un-jaundiced eye.
I have to readjust everything.Sure, this has a lot of great gothic elements and a heavy reliance on Dickens, feeling more like a timeless and isolated castle full of a loving people (at first) only to have it fall to the whiles of a lying snake.
:)But how did I like this novel?
What it didn't have in dastardly wars, it did have in masterful prose, sneaky action, creepy and delightful and complex characters, and truly brilliant descriptions.I'm really looking forward to reading the next one.
”The darkness came down over the castle and the Twisted Woods and over Gormenghast Mountain. The long tables of the Dwellers were hidden in the thickness of a starless night….” This is the book hailed by Tolkien separatists as one to rival The Lord of the Rings. This is the book that supposedly is the best book in the fantasy genre. We are all entitled to our opinions, but after having read Titus Groan, I simply cannot understand why anyone would even come close to that conclusion.To me, this i
We are all entitled to our opinions, but after having read Titus Groan, I simply cannot understand why anyone would even come close to that conclusion.To me, this is fantasy devoid of anything that makes the genre special.
After having read almost a third of the book, I felt ready to put it down and forget about it.That was part of the reason why I did not enjoy this as much as I could have: that it does not really fit into my concept of fantasy (which is probably different from the concept of fantasy in the minds of Peake's followers).
It is Peake's masterful depictions that make the setting, not the characters and not the story, the protagonist here.This book here is unique and perfect, I say.______________________________________The Voice of PeakeA few out-of-context excerpts from here and there:"Swelter, as soon as he saw who it was, stopped dead, and across his face little billows of flesh ran swiftly here and there until, as though they had determined to adhere to the same impulse, they swept up into both oceans of soft cheek, leaving between them a vacuum, a gaping segment like a slice cut from a melon.
Mervyn Peake was one of those gifted people you burningly resent, he was a brilliant artist and then he thought oh I need something else to occupy my time when I'm not doing brilliant drawings and paintings, hmm what can I do, ah yes I'll write one of the century's greatest fantasies in one of the most individual and beautiful prose styles, and create about a dozen of the most memorable and delightful characters in all of fiction, including a real heartbreaker of a heroine called Fuchsia, yes, hmm, that's what I'll do, why not...Well I really want to read this again, I have such great memories of being elevated into a genuinely different, gorgeous, horrifying but completely seductive world that I want to go back, I want to go back.
The men are the master carvers, whose works, due to yearly competitions, reside in the Hall of the Bright Carvings within Gormenghast Castle.There is also, however, a very poignant sub-plot involving the Dweller Reda (a very strong character which I always like) who is asked to be a wet nurse by Nanny Slagg to Titus as the mother, Countess Gertrude (and what a sight she is to behold) cannot possibly be involved with breastfeeding and all those other boring female past-times.
Titus Groan is another one of my favorite books and it, along with The Worm Ouroboros, had a big influence on me while writing the Inheritance Cycle.
And it’s so rich, it’s actually a little bit hard to read in one sitting; it’s better taken in small chunks.
Mervyn Peake, like so many authors who survived and endured the World Wars—World War One particularly—had a sense of the grotesque and the grotesquely beautiful that is hard to find.
You’re not going to find anything like this among any other modern day writers.
The closest would be perhaps China Miéville, but even he does very different things than Mervyn Peake.
Oscuridad en las cuatro alas de Gormenghast.Los libros de Titus: Titus Groan, Gormenghast y Titus Solo, son una trilogía accidental, parte de lo que iba a ser un ciclo más amplio, que contaría la vida de Titus Groan, Septuagésimo séptimo conde de Gormenghast, desde su nacimiento hasta el fin de sus días.Estamos ante un tipo de fantasía diferente, en la que no encontramos ninguno de sus elementos clásicos, no hay seres fantásticos, ni magia, ni grandes batallas… es un mundo que roza el surrealismo, más influenciado por el gótico y los clásicos que por otras obras fantásticas.
Titus Groan is the tale of a bunch of truly odd and grotesque people living in a grotesque old castle.Maybe it's just me (neither bleak nor grotesque is my thing; put them together and I'm liable to slit my throat), but I just could not with this book.
I generally love fantasy of all kinds, but I found this book very creepy in an off-putting kind of way, sort of like one of Tim Burton's weirder movies.
(I still haven't forgiven him for Batman Returns.)It was also grim and gruesome and boring.
So boring that I'm surprised I managed to finish it.
Between all those things, this book was pretty much a losing effort for me in every way.
Forse basta un solo istante perché quello che sembra un caos irresolubile di particolari si raccolga, nel loro occhio, in un disegno ordinato e intelleggibile di forme e distanze, dove anche l'elemento più insignificante viene percepito nei suoi rapporti con l'insieme.
Perché le ossessioni del cuore, scoperte, balzano fuori accecando la vista, e ogni altra traccia di vita sprofonda nel buio”.Questa saga, se non fosse stato per la malattia dell'autore, un gentiluomo inglese figlio di un medico missionario, nato in Cina, avrebbe potuto avere uno sviluppo ad infinitum: come scrive Michele Mari inserendo il testo tra i suoi Feticismi ne “I demoni e la pasta sfoglia”, l'opera chiede ai lettori un compiuto rapimento, una duratura evasione.
So to witness the birth of a new member of the Royal Family is to experience an essential part of the seamless (albeit sometimes unseemly) transition of sovereignty from one generation to another.The first force of change is the birth of Titus Groan, the heir to the throne, although at the end of this the first volume in the series, he is only two years old, so he features more as portent than as participant.One Less Glorious RevolutionA cycle, by definition, revolves, and each cycle represents a single revolution.
This story is incredibly atmospheric – from the suffocating oppression of the setting to the enormous tragicomic characters.
I felt like I was watching rather than reading.
Also, there is a multitude of cats.The Bad:It was a mile high stack of metaphors, like a book overfull of similes.
The story itself lacked meaning, at least to my lizard brain.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:There are two protagonists in this work, diametrically opposed.
Like Rachel, Steerpike is charming, ambitious and manipulative.
Mr Flay is surly like Chandler, and also gets very physical with a chef.
Here apparently on this stifling summer afternoon was the eye of Mr. Flay at the outer keyhole of the Hall of the Bright Carvings, and presumably the rest of Mr. Flay was joined on behind it.”The above beautifully oddball passage represents – for me – the reason to love and not to love Titus Groan.
I first attempted to read this book a few years ago and progressed as far as 50 pages when I gave it up, I did notice the artistry of it but it kept sending my attention drifting like a balloon.
Qui, invece, al posto dell'epica tradizionale ci sono un senso del grottesco e umorismo significativi, e che tutto sommato incontrano il mio gusto.
E quel continuo insistere su ordine e tradizione: in verità è un argomento attualissimo, dunque non è proprio del tutto vero quello che dice Burgess nella prefazione, secondo il quale questa opera si sottrae a qualsiasi interpretazione storico-sociale.
Titus Groan is Peake's magnificent addition to the oeuvre of 20th century gothic.
The dense descriptive language; the isolation that exists within this intricate castle; the macabre and gothic array of exquisite characters; all combine to create a cold, greying atmosphere, but with the most exquisitely colourful characters you'll find in literature.
Titus Groan is the finest of the Gormenghast Trilogy - possibly due to the initial plunge you take when dipping into Peake's vivid world.
It's bizarre, mesmerising and wonderfully executed.While the world of Gormenghast won't be for everyone, it deserves to be respected and viewed as a dense, original, gothic masterpiece of the 20th century.
It is difficult to believe that this book was written by a human.
It reads like an unearthed mythology, discovered on a far away planet in a cave filled with treasure.Derivating from the Tolkien model for fantasy, Peake's genius is certainly the progenitor for all non horses-and-swords books of the genre.
And his ability to create an ensemble book without a strong lead character is simply amazing.
There should be a graduate class taught on his methods of characterization and the importance of coming up with the perfect name (no one has done it better).I look forward to reading the other two books in this trilogy.
Mervyn Peake was a poet, a word-slinger extraordinaire, who, despite his untimely demise due to dementia at the age of 57, managed to leave behind the deservedly famous Gormenghast trilogy, a cyclopean masterpiece of "Fantasy-flavored albeit genreless literature" the likes of which had never been seen before or since.
And rapture is indeed the state you will find yourself in if you only allow Peake to take you by the hand and lead you through the nooks and crannies of his most memorable creation, Gormenghast Castle.
I'd say that in a way (as they are in some sense contemporaries)This book and The Lord of the Rings could be said to represent two widely divergent types of fantasy.Titus Groan leads us into and introduces to the world of Gormenghast Castle and is the first of the Gormenghast series.
Mervyn Peake did not live to complete his planned series though Maeve Gilmore Peake's wife and biographer wrote Titus Awakes: The Lost Book of Gormenghast.
Titus himself plays very little part in the actual story of this book but he is very central to the action.
Si può aprire una porta e trovarsi una colonia di centinaia di gatti bianchi che si muovono come un maelstrom e che si crogiolano al sole in un milione di fusa; attraversare corridoi bui al ritmo delle ossa di Lisca; spostare un letto e trovarsi nel fantastico mondo di Fucsia; vivere una vita in mezzo ai libri aspettando una metamorfosi; trovare l’amore della propria vita, perderlo e ritrovarlo ancora perdendo se stessi; entrare in una biblioteca meravigliosa; avere prodigiosi colpi di fortuna e trovarsi da sguattero di cucina a persona indispensabile nel castello; incontrare due gemelle che parlano all’unisono; un dottore sui generis, ma forse l’unico savio della compagnia; fare compagnia a colazione a Sepulcrio ; scoprire una finestra da dove i pennuti entrano indisturbati e vivono come ospiti del castello; assistere alla nascita del settantasettesimo conte dei de’ Lamenti, Tito, l’unico bimbo con gli occhi viola.
Tito di Gormenghast è un libro che bramavo da tempo, era uno di quei libri che ti segni e poi...
Così mi sono deciso, l'ho preso ed iniziato.Le prime pagine sono state qualcosa di indescrivibile, un colpo di fulmine totale, scrittura densa, molto densa di descrizioni, di similitudini, mi pareva di stare all'interno di un quadro gotico-surreale e di vagabondare per le miriadi di stanze, corridoi, antri con quella sottile nebbiolina, tipica dei film horror classici.Pagina dopo pagina, ho conosciuto personaggi straordinari, fuori dal comune, per nulla banali.
Well, then step right in, into the world of Titus Groan, the next Earl of Groan, the heir of Gormenghast Castle, the castle which is pretty much our main character in and of itself.
I had a long list of books I was trying to get through that month, when I was invited to join the "Gormenghast Novels Read" Group on Goodreads.
Even my friends in real life who love classic literature had not only heard of them, but had already read them!
It is the love of a man or of a woman for their world.
I really loved this book.
But for those who appreciate those elements in a work of fiction or perhaps those who found the unique ideas of The Trial interesting I strongly recommend this novel.The best genre that I could possibly associate this with is fantasy.
I personally wondered how on earth he could write so perfectly with such ease.The plot feels like it is all leading to the second novel yet Titus Groan stands alone as a narrative.
Associated with this the reader can observe a set of characters so unique that they are instantly fascinating.
It is because of this castle that Titus Groan feels like part-fantasy, part-Gothic tale and part historic narrative.
The eyes in whose expression might be read the unending grudge they bore against the nose were as small as marbles and peered out between the grey grass of the hair.This head, set at a long incline upon a neck as wry as a turtle's cut across the narrow vertical black strip of the window.Steerpike watched it turn upon the neck slowly.
Terrific start to this epic fantasy series.
I had a bit of a hard time getting started with it but once I got into it the pages flew by.
I loved the castle and the Victorian feel to it.
The character development is first rate.
I loved the whimsical aspect to it.
I was horrified at the prospect of burning books.
I read this with some friends and I almost skipped it because I wasn't sure it was really going to work for me but I'm so glad I didn't as it ended up being 5 very enthusiastic stars.
I can't wait to get started on the next book.
Subdolo come una promessa elettorale, col sorriso della serpe, gli si abbandonano avvinti dal suo fascino mortifero.E questo dedalo del castello sconfinato, non è forse l’immagine del mondo intero, delle sue complessità, di luoghi e fatti assurdi eppure accaduti, l’universo intero di menzogne e di meschinità e di assurdità quotidiane, una rappresentazione ideale e grottesca, d’accordo, ma pur sempre straordinariamente vivida ed efficace?Sono stato propenso alle cinque stelle per gran parte del tempo di lettura, però poi devo onestamente riconoscere che rispetto al mio standard manca di qualcosina per meritarle, ossia il vuoto di stomaco prodotto, la sorpresa ebete di dire, nel progredire della lettura ma anche a distanza di giorni dalla fine della lettura, oh madonnina madonnina che ha scritto questo va!Comunque consigliatissimo, diciamo 4 stelle e mezza!
This marks my 1,000th book read as listed on Goodreads!
And this landmark should be, and is, something spectacular, awesome, unique, unclassifiable, brilliant, and unequaled.
Oddly, I'd never even heard of this author or of any of his books until a few months ago when a goodreads friend brought him to my attention.
It is uniquely brilliant, and we are right to call it a modern classic." What's it about?
Just open it and start reading, go in knowing nothing, and you'll join the ranks of those of us calling this one of the greats of all time.
