https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33989585-i-was-anastasia
There were two alternating story lines that were asynchronous to one another, which made for a pretty confusing reading experience.
However, with all that being said, I still really enjoyed the story and the history.
This novel chronicled the final days of the Romanov family, shining a light on Anastasia.
The other story follows a woman claiming to be Anastasia, who goes by Anna Anderson.
If you are interested in Russian history, I definitely think you would like this book.
I liked the story..I did.
I just thought it could have been better.
Written better.
Told better..Like Shania Twain says..
No matter how many movies, documentaries, or books I’ve watched or read, the romantic in me simply can’t resist the fascination and the mystery of Anastasia Romanov.
This book examines the life of Anna Anderson, who claimed she was Anastasia, while also chronicling the period of time the Romanov’s were in exile, leading up to their execution during the Bolshevik Revolution.
I hoped, no matter how far-fetched or doubtful the probability, that Anna Anderson really was Anastasia Romanov.
One point I think we can all agree on, no matter what, is that Anna’s claims turned Anastasia Romanov into a legend, taking on a life of its own.
This style of writing also reminded me of the book "All the missing girls" which was also told in reverse.I found that I rather liked how she told her story.
She details her research, why she blended characters, her inspiration for the reverse story telling and what lead her to write this book.
I was actually deciding between a 3.5 and a 4 star rating, and then I read the Author's note and that pushed the book to a 4 star rating for me.I love when books cause me to think, feel and also to learn.
and what i thought was just a childhood phase has slowly become something of a passion, so you can imagine my excitement when this book came out earlier this year.the story of anna anderson is not one that i am too familiar with.
this book tells both annas and anastasias stories in a very nonlinear fashion.
anastasias is told chronologically (beginning in 1917) and annas is told backwards (starting in 1970) until the two stories converge.
also, i was quite bored with annas story, which was half the book.
i dont regret reading it, but i would only recommend it to those really interested in anna andersons story.
4 engrossing stars to I Was Anastasia! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ Being approved to read an early copy of I Was Anastasia was like winning the lottery to this historical fiction fan. Not only because of my love for the genre, but also because of my interest in Anastasia. Not because she was a princess necessarily, but because growing up I remember discussions about Anna Anderson and if she was or was not the real Anastasia Romanov. Ariel Lawhon ambitiously tackles this notion in a genius structure through writing
Ariel Lawhon ambitiously tackles this notion in a genius structure through writing from two viewpoints in different timelines, Anastasia’s in forward-progression, and Anna’s in reverse.
In the Author’s Note, Lawhon describes that it was challenging to write this way, and I kept thinking that as I read.
She even read biographies of Anna Anderson in reverse order so that she would formulate it in her head the way she would eventually write Anna’s voice.
Even though I already knew the true outcome, I longed for a different one as I quickly read through this book waiting for the timelines to intersect, waiting for the answer Lawhon would write.
Given that this is well worn material, I understand that the author chose this structure for dramatic effect.
And then there are the characterizations which left me cold and I mean the kind of frigidity that one would find in, say, Siberia.
Granted, I was Anastasia is about the Anastasia/Anna dispute but I have read other historical fiction that has handled the questions surrounding the violent tragedy of July 1917 deftly.
If upon reading this book you find that you are interested in the Romanov Dynasty, I would recommend anything written by Robert K.
The one of the Romanovs imprisonmrnt and eventually murder is written in a linear timeline, the story of Anna is told backwards in time, even within the same Chapter, we go backwards.I did like learning more about the girls personalities, though of course the focus is on Anastasia.
The part with Anna was also told well, but I found because of the way it was written, sometimes confusing.A great deal of research went into this novel, and the author explains in her authors note what that entailed and what she changed to make the story flow better.
3.5 stars(view spoiler)[ Even though I knew the story of The Romanovs and their fate, I knew very little about Anna Anderson who for decades claimed to be Anastasia Romanov and worked to prove that she survived the firing squad that took the lives of Tsar Nicholas II and his family.
The imagined account of what it was like for the Romanov family in the time just before they are sent off to Siberia and their death was compelling.
I was so taken by the family in spite of what history tells us about Tsar Nicholas II .
I adored this book. It was cleverly constructed, expertly researched, deeply moving and I couldn't wait to get to it at the end of the day, which is when I read for pleasure. Highly recommend, folks.
I admit to being endlessly fascinated with Romanov family history and with the woman who claimed to be Anastasia.
So apparently is Ariel Lawhon, as she weaves together both those stories in her latest work of historical fiction: one, about the last tragic eighteen months of the Romanov family's lives told through the eyes of their youngest daughter and the second, about Anna Anderson who claimed to be Anastasia.
Anna's story is told backwards chronologically--beginning with her last court case in 1970 and then regressing back through time (what happened before that, and before that and so on).
The story of whether Anna Anderson was actually Anastasia Romanov has fascinated me since I was young.
Naturally, I was very excited to read I Was Anastasia, and I knew how the book would turn out (I am choosing my wording carefully because I do not want to spoil the ending for those unfamiliar with the tale).
While I enjoyed the book, I had significant trouble following the story as it unfolded in I Was Anastasia.
I also felt it could have been edited down a bit more.I Was Anastasia is clearly a labor of love for Ariel Lawhon, and her research and effort show through in her retelling of Anna Anderson and Anastasia Romanov’s stories.
I've seen both since I find the Romanov's a captivated subject.I was curious to see how of Ariel Lawhon would construct the story since much has happened since Anna Anderson died in 1984.
So, read on if you dare!Since Anna Anderson died in 1984 has two things happened, for one thing, has DNA showed that she was not Anastasia, and also the graves of the Romanov's family has been found with the bones of ALL the children.
Reading the author's note at the end, where she wrote about wanting to believe that the story would be true made me realize that she made me want to believe that it's true that Anna was Anastasia.
After the entire Romanov family was brutally slaughtered by a drunken firing squad, the family’s bodies were spirited away, hidden from the world.
One thing for sure, Ms. Lawhon’s two-pronged tale is fascinating, intriguing and very hard to put down!Anastasia’s final days are laid out in a linear fashion, from her life at the palace to her life in a foreboding Siberian home where her pampered family was forced to become common-folk, doing common labor to survive.
Just reaching an age where young love can bloom, only to have her life stolen away.Anna’s tale is much different as we meet an older Anna, still fighting to be recognized as Anastasia.
DNF'ing at page 93. I'm not really loving it and the horrible deaths and treatment of animals has totally turned me off.
I hate to not finish a book, however, we are in the process of moving and this is just not holding my interest. I’ve struggled to get 50% through and have no desire to fight my way through the rest. This story’s timeline bounces around a lot which is extremely distracting & I made the huge mistake of Googling the people mentioned which ruined the story for me. I’m a Googler when it comes to true events... it usually enhances the story for me by allowing me to picture the people & places. This time it backfired, big time.
I was familiar with the history behind the novel, but I didn’t have any real expectations when I picked it up and was more than a little surprised when the book proved almost impossible to put aside.Lawhon’s style and tone captured my attention from the first line and refused to release its hold until the very end of the narrative.
I can’t presume to know why, but reading between the lines, the author seemed to have more fun with Anna’s chapters than she did Anastasia’s.Imaginatively tenacious and creatively composed, I Was Anastasia brings life to a mystery that captivated the world for much of the twentieth century.
The chapters alternate between Anna Anderson's story and Anastasia's.
The Anastasia chapters slowly lead up to when the Romanov family is executed in 1918, and Anna's go from 1970 to around the time of the executions.
why another book on Anastasia; doesn't everyone already know this story?
This is historical fiction and the author says she fudged on some details but not much.All in all, I am not certain I'd recommend this one unless you do not already know the story, and even then a non-fiction might deliver better.
If this was my first time learning about the Romanovs, I am sure I would have rated it much higher.
When I was around 12 years old I became interested in the Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia/Anna Anderson story.
And just young enough and romantic enough to believe Anna was truly the Grand Duchess and survived the Revolution.
I knew how the ending was going to be, but I was still tense and anxious like this was my first reading of the Tsar family story.
Then Ariel gifts us with this awesome last chapter followed by an internal dialogue of Anna Anderson, which was very astute.
This book has become my favorite historical read of 2017!
In July 1918, Tsar Nicholas and the entire Romanov family was brutally murdered by the Bolsheviks. For decades people believed that Anastasia Romanov survived. This is that story told through two story lines - Lawhon flips back and forth in time, telling us about the final months the Romanov family and then the subsequent years when people tried to prove that Anastasia Romanov survived the murders.I loved Lawhon's style of telling the story in pieces, jumping back and forth in time. I was completely sucked in to the story and was completely taken aback at the ending. Highly recommend!
Takeaway for those who don't want it spoiled - historical novel that sacrifices depth and character development for a gimmicky structure.
Lawhon has made some odd choices that box her into a corner with this book - the gimmicky "Memento" structure is set up so that you don't know Anna Anderson's true identity until the last pages of the book.
The reader knows the real Anastasia didn't escape and various clues are scattered throughout the book give away that Anna Anderson is not Anastasia.
Instead, the backwards-running structure prevents any kind of in-depth character development or insight into Anna Anderson.
I love reading anything about Anastasia and this historical fiction wasn't just intriguing, it was impossible to put down!
There is, of course, some brutality when you read about what happened to the Romanov family.
If you've never read anything about Anastasia I would highly recommend this book and then deep dive into historical fact.
This book follows the life of Anastasia in chronological order all the way from political undermining to the brutal end to the Romanov royal family and Anastasia's disappearance.
The in reverse chronological order it follows Anna Anderson, the girl who claimed to be Anastasia all the way to her death and the struggles she endured.
But Happening it is The main focus is on the woman known as Anna Andersen and also the Royal Family Romanov during their last months.
including Anna's...And then there is the telling of the fall of the Romanov's through Anastasia's eyes.
even though you do have much of it already in your mind...I shall always love the Ingrid Bergman movie...and since it and many of the books out there were made long before more information about the Romanov Family has come to light...It is safe to say...
I love the notion of the whole history being unfolded in a dual timeline that explores the bloody Russian Revolution and Romanov family's fall from grace, as well as Anna Anderson's more present claims that she is the long lost Grand Duchess, a survivor of the tragedies of the past.Lawhon's dual timeline approach is ultimately both why this novel appealed to me and why I had a hard time loving it as much as I thought I would.
That is the question surrounding Anna Anderson who insists she survived the massacre of her family in the basement.
She claims to be Anastasia Romanov, the Russian Grand Duchess.
Back then dna testing was not available to prove or disprove her story.Fascinating yet horrifying this historical suspense is based on research the author has done.
The author has in her research sifted through 50 years of facts in this book with it's many twists and turns.
Anna Anderson had a 50 year battle to be recognized as Anastasia Romanov, survivor of the bloodshed that happened that night.
I loved this book so much I endorsed it officially! A wildly unique look at the dual mysteries of Anastasia Romanov and her possible imposter Anna Anderson results in a brilliant reimagining of two fascinating lives. Complex, exciting, and beautifully written, Ariel Lawhon never disappoints. Her impeccable research and lush prose make I WAS ANASTASIA compulsively readable. A fantastic novel.
Review to come!
When I was around 12 years old I became interested in the Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia/Anna Anderson story.
And just young enough and romantic enough to believe Anna was truly the Grand Duchess and survived the Revolution.
I knew how the ending was going to be, but I was still tense and anxious like this was my first reading of the Tsar family story.
Then Ariel gifts us with this awesome last chapter followed by an internal dialogue of Anna Anderson, which was very astute.
This book has become my favorite historical read of 2017!
2.5 StarsThe constant shifting in the timeline of the story confused me at times. Anna’s timeline is all over the place and I would have preferred to have hers go chronologically like Anastasia’s. I really liked Anastasia’s POV but couldn’t get into Anna’s. This book re-sparked my interest in the Romanovs and now I need to go read some non-fiction books about them.
I have always been obsessed with Romanov lore... Excellent interview with the author on NPR.
A sad, fascinating account of a woman's claim to be Grand Duchess Anastasia whose family was massacred in 1918. Recommended.
