https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301823.Say_You_Love_Me
***4,5 lovely stars*** For once again the Mallorys were an excellent companion for me...I love those reckless members of this family, i'm liking their adventures and i can't get enough of them...The fifth story wasn't an exception for me... even though that this certain Mallory was a little bit different from the rest of his crazy relatives, but he had his moments too!!!So this was Derek Mallory's story whose fate bound with poor Kelsey Langton's....Kelsey Langton was very unlucky. Before some
Before some months, she lost everything she knew and had in her life and with her sister, they are living under the protection of their dear aunt and his husband...But one night, she is discovering from her uncle that they are about to go on bankrupt, so he is persuading her to do something unlike her in order to save her family and her sister's future....She knows that what she had to do will ruined her reputation and that her life will be destroyed forever, but she has no other choice...So, she is going to be sold in an auction as a mistress for a gentleman of the high society!!!Derek Mallory is following the steps of his uncles, but he is more discreet with his actions...He is loving to have fun and to enjoy women's company very much, but because of his father and because of all of the scandals that were following Mallorys from time to time, he is trying to be very careful...
I loved Derek and Kelsey and could not put this book down!Kelsey Langston, a highborn lady, auctions herself off at a brothel in order to save her family from their supposed debt.
Derek Malory, unlike his two uncles and younger cousin, has no reason to take a mistress but when he sees his enemy bidding to win Kelsey his first reaction is to out bid him in order to save Kelsey from any harm.
Little did Kelsey’s uncle know that Aunt Elizabeth had enough money of her own and the family was never in debt.
This review was originally posted on Addicted To Romance    Summary   Kelsey Langton has always looked out for her sister. When they lost their parents to a tragic and dramatic death, they were taken in by their aunt and uncle. But when her uncle loses his funds, he convinces Kelsey that she can save them and help provide more security for her sister. So she agrees to sell herself as a Lord's mistress to save her family. When she is put on the block, she end up being Derek Malory's mistress. Der
Derek Malory is not a man to be spontaneous or to buy a mistress especially for the large amount, but when a cruel fellow Lord bids on Kelsey, he knows the pain she will suffer at his hands and he can save her this time.
But when Derek realizes he wants to marry Kelsey, because he loves her, it might be impossible with the scandal surrounding their relationship and the secret that Kelsey is keeping from him...
I love seeing a mix of good characteristics from the family that Derek portrays in his personality.
That was my problem with the constant invasion of the Malory clan, the hero's family, in this book.
Obviously Derek and Kelsey are meant to be, and it's one long journey of them being perfectly pleasant with each other (no joke) while the Malory family makes wise-cracks and summarizes their own history until the ultimate happy ending.
The plot just ended up getting all wrapped up in Derek's freaking family, and I didn't care about those people.
At times, Kelsey disappears for generous portions of the book so the reader can visit with past characters.
Αγαπώ αυτή την σειρά απτο πρώτο της βιβλίο!!Σ αυτο το βιβλίο μας παρουσιάζει την ιστορία του Ντέρεκ που τόσο ανυπομονούσα να διαβάσω!Ήταν απολαυστικό και αυτό,η αλήθεια όμως είναι οτι ήταν λίγο λιγότερο απτα προηγούμενα.Ένιωθα σαν κάτι να έλειπε,ισως οι τελευταίες σελίδες να μη με ''έπεισαν'' και γι αυτό η πλοκή μου φάνηκε λίγο υπερβολική.Ωστόσο μου άρεσε που και σε όλα τα βιβλία της η Lindsey αναφέρει τους χαρακτήρες απο τα προηγούμενα,κυρίως τους Τζέιμς και Άντονι που ειναι οι αγαπημένοι μου.Α
Αγαπώ αυτή την σειρά απ΄το πρώτο της βιβλίο!!Σ αυτο το βιβλίο μας παρουσιάζει την ιστορία του Ντέρεκ που τόσο ανυπομονούσα να διαβάσω!Ήταν απολαυστικό και αυτό,η αλήθεια όμως είναι οτι ήταν λίγο λιγότερο απ΄τα προηγούμενα.Ένιωθα σαν κάτι να έλειπε,ισως οι τελευταίες σελίδες να μη με ''έπεισαν'' και γι αυτό η πλοκή μου φάνηκε λίγο υπερβολική.Ωστόσο μου άρεσε που και σε όλα τα βιβλία της η Lindsey αναφέρει τους χαρακτήρες απο τα προηγούμενα,κυρίως τους Τζέιμς και Άντονι που ειναι οι αγαπημένοι μου.Ανυπομονώ να ξεκινήσω το επόμενο βιβλίο της σειράς!
Such a pretty book I just had to read it!
The other reason was that this was my July bodice-ripper read for the GR Historical Romance Book Club's Romance Across the Ages challenge.
This book is #5 in a series and I haven't read the others.
It wasn't really a standalone, because there were lots of characters from other books, and quite a bit (too much!) page space spent on catching readers up on what they were all up to and how many babies they were having etc etc .
But overall, I think it's the writing style that just wasn't for me.
I don't see why Derek thought the only way he could save her was by making her his mistress.
I don't like mistress storylines that much anyway, but I especially hate the "I'll save you by taking you as a mistress" storyline with a fiery, burning passion.
As many female cousins and aunts as Derek has, he could have asked one of them to take Kelsey in and see her settled respectfully.
I didn't really even think there was much chemistry between Derek and Kelsey and I hated the subplot with Derek's father and his secret mistress who is his housekeeper (and something a lot more important to the plot).
Charming reading but in this family, which always put their mind and voice into everything and where speaking one over another is normal ,I had to admit that I was exhausted. Too many others of the family and the lack of relationship between Kelsey and Derek.
Serie OBLIGATORIA para las amantes del romance histórico.Historias imperdibles y personajes memorables. ❤️
I love reading about the Malorys and this story is about Derek, who is the eldest Malory's (Jason's) illegitimate son, but his father had declared him his heir and he was brought up in a loving family that consisted of his uncles, aunts and cousins and his father and his father's housekeeper whom he's especially close to.
I really liked reading about Kelsey and even though she's got good breeding in her background the scandal surrounding her parents' deaths has cast her at the bottom of the ladder in polite society and especially since her and her sister had to live with her aunt (her mother's sister) who came from good breeding, but married for love and beneath herself.
Η σχέση τους γίνεται όλο και πιο δυνατή, ωστόσο η πραγματική ταυτότητα της Κέλσι, αλλά και το γεγονός πως ο Ντέρεκ είναι διάδοχος του πατέρα του, είναι αρκετά για να καταστήσουν το κοινό τους μέλλον αδύνατο.Ομολογώ πως η Johanna Lindsey σπάνια με έχει απογοητεύσει και ακόμα μου προκαλεί έκπληξη η τολμηρή της πένα, καθώς το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο γράφτηκε το 1999.
Οι ερωτικές σκηνές που γράφει η Lindsey είναι πάντα από τις καλύτερες που συναντάμε στην αισθηματική λογοτεχνία εποχής και όπως προείπα, ιδιαιτέρως σύγχρονες για την εποχή στην οποία γράφτηκαν τα βιβλία.Δεν μπορώ να μην παρατηρήσω πως, κατά την προσωπική μου άποψη, ο Ντέρεκ και η Κέλσι στερούνται της χημείας που διακρίνουμε στα ζευγάρια των προηγούμενων βιβλίων -με τον Άντονι και τη Ρόσλιν αδιαμφισβήτητα να κλέβουν τις εντυπώσεις.
The so called hero was a man that uses woman purely for sex.
Because that was what Derek Malory did - he never spent any of his time outside of the bedroom with his mistresses.
He uses them for sex only and then goes about his day.SPOILER"Thank you for gifting me with your virginity" ugh, the hero likes virgins and brags about it to his friend that she was a virgin (emphasis on the word "was" a virgin).
And I agree with another post, if he was an honorable man, he would not have made Kelsey his mistress after he bought her.
I know many love the Malory novels, but so far I've been underwhelmed.
If I'm going to read a Regency, give me Lisa Kleypas.
This one was an enjoyable / stress-free read for a rainy day, but not memorable.
In all fairness, I think it was a case of taste.
There is not even the big question of whether or not he will risk scandal to marry her.
He's all for it and she's the one who refuses on the grounds that she doesn't want him caught up in a scandal for marrying his mistress.
Okay, I'm cheating here, and I don't like them all equally, but I do love the Mallory's. They're all funny. I especially liked Love Only Once (the first book), Gentle Rogue (my favorite), and The Magic of You (where the heroine chases the hero shamelessly).
Αυτό βέβαια είναι γενικότερο χαρακτηριστικό στα βιβλία της Lindsey για την υπέροχη οικογένεια των Μάλορι,αλλά νομίζω πως εδώ χορτάσαμε να διαβάζουμε για μέλη της οικογένειας!
Ενδιαφέρουσα και η δική του ιστορία (η οποία αποτελεί την πλοκή του 6ου βιβλίου της σειράς,που κυκλοφόρησε σχετικά πρόσφατα.)Τρίτον: Αυτό το βιβλίο σηματοδοτεί μια καινούρια αναγνωστική εποχή για τους φαν των Μάλορι.
Και θεωρώ το "Πες πως μ' αγαπάς" μια άκρως επιτυχημένη μετάβαση ανάμεσα σ' αυτές τις δύο εποχές που σηματοδοτούν την ιστορία των Μάλορι.
Παρόλο που και το προηγούμενο αφορούσε μια ηρωίδα/κόρη ενός από τους εσείς-οι-τέσσερις-θα-είστε-για-πάντα-οι-κεντρικοί-πρωταγωνιστές-στην-καρδιά-μου, οι εν λόγω τέσσερις παρενέβησαν αρκετά στις ζωές της Έιμι και του Γουόρεν.
Creo que es el que más me ha gustado de la saga, o al menos no esperaba encontrarme con esta bonita pareja, y Derek es un amor, "el top ten de los Malory men" y además, me encanta volver a "encontrarme" con el resto de la familia, con sus ocurrencias y comentarios, y lo enamorados que están todos :D En definitiva, me ha entretenido mucho, y me ha tenido bastante enganchada, que eso es muy buena señal ;)
3.5 stars
But surprisingly it wasn't!I liked the main couple, they seemed on the shy quiet type not at all like James and his wife Goergie XD.
Though Derek being a Mallory doesn't have a shy bone in his body and given his statement to the family at the end of the book is prove enough, yet he wasn't as crazy as his uncles Tony and James were, and that's why I said he seemed on the quiet side, the Mallory's are crazily bold in some areas men and women alike.
I think my concentration levels were pretty low yesterday, but I just couldn't pay attention to the plot, even though I finished the book in a day.
I found it pretty hard to read on after that.One more fault of mine - I hate books where the heroine is a mistress.
This one just didn't do it for me, so with not much care for the hero and the heroine, it's hard to have your attention focused.A shame really - what should have been a delightful read for me turned out to be just mellow.
This book is my saving grace when I was in deep shock and anger after the shitty US presidential election result. After all, there is nothing better than a great romance novel to lift you up and keep you fangirling all day :D
Sigh, I SO love the Malory men, they are just totally delicious..
Προκειμένου να διασφαλίσει το μέλλον της αδερφής της, η Κέλσι αποφασίζει ν' αφήσει στην άκρη την υπερηφάνεια της πουλώντας τον εαυτό της σε μια δημοπρασία, μετά το τέλος της οποίας θα βρεθεί στα χέρια κάποιου αριστοκράτη για να την χρησιμοποιήσει ως το ερωτικό του παιχνιδάκι.
Και για καλή της τύχη, θα βρεθεί στα χέρια του Ντέρεκ Μάλορι, που αν και είχε υποσχεθεί στον εαυτό του πως δεν θ' αποκτήσει ποτέ μετρέσα, για κάποιο λόγο ένιωθε πως δεν μπορούσε να την αφήσει στα χέρια κάποιου άλλου.
Ως ιστορία είναι αρκετά επίπεδη και χωρίς τις συναισθηματικές εκρήξεις που είχαν τα προηγούμενα βιβλία της σειράς, ωστόσο οφείλω να αναγνωρίσω την καλή δουλειά που έχει γίνει στο χτίσιμο των χαρακτήρων.
I would have given this a higher rating if the author delved deeper into the story or at least the main characters.
I liked the story but I felt it was missing something.
All the elements were there I just think the author's writing style didn't do it justice.
I was so very tempted to shout out like a crazy person 'give me more!' a few times.
I wanted to actually see the hero propose to the heroine and not have it summarized in one line like it was no big deal.
Her writing style left a lot to be desired for me personally.
Ужасена и макар да знае, че ще провали всички шансове един ден да се омъжи, тя е решена да помогне, затова се съгласява и се озовава в публичен дом, където огромна група мъже наддава за честта да я направи своя любовница.Дерек Малъри, незаконен син на Джейсън Малъри, главата на фамилията Малъри, и негов наследник, винаги се е старал да не предизвиква скандали.
Но когато вижда, че едно младо момиче е на път да бъде продадено на зъл садистичен член на обществото, той не може да го позволи, затова купува Келси, с намерението да я направи своя любовница.Момичето обаче се държи като истинска дама, и макар Дерек да вярва в думите й, че е дъщер на гувернантка, всички около него са убедени, че Келси е лейди.Много забавна и сладка книга.
However, Say You Love Me is nothing like those novels and I was definitely glad of it.The main characters, Derek Malory and Kelsey Langton are the perfect foils for each other.
While you do eventually come to realize that Derek loves Kelsey, it isn't obvious and that is a refreshing change from the normal.There are subplots present in the book which make for intrigue regarding the previous books (this is the 5th in the Malory series and the first of the Malory novels I have read) and any books that came after this book.
His focus on fighting is tiresome and he comes off as an immature low class street brawler.Sure there are unrealistic aspects of this story--buying a person means they are a Slave--and no one was appalled at that in the Malory family and demanding that Kelsey be released from bondage immediately.
But I have now learned to suspend reality and just enjoy the story's which are sure to have a happy ending.Kelsey and Derek were meant for each other--out of all the couples so far, these two had the most chemistry.I agree with the others the ending was a bit rushed.
This is my first ever Johanna Lindsey. I chose it because it was the only historical romance audiobook in the library. The narrator was good for most of the characters but his characterisation of Lord Atwood, the villain in this book, I was reminded of a Hansel and Gretel book + record I had as a child and every time time Atwood cackled "My pretty" I wanted to giggle. More than half way through I switched from the audio (which was becoming an excruciating listen) to a print copy which I completed in an hour or so.
We all have a book which makes us fall in love with reading. For some it was Ronald Dahl, for other Harry Potter, for me it was Johanna Lindsey & her SAY YOU LOVE ME ! I remember reading it as 16 year old, hopelessly romantic, girl as it was yesterday ! I re-read many times since then.. and my impression never change! Easy-to-read historic romance from the times when ladies and gentlemen walked our streets... beautiful, filled with love & expectations :)
I don't understand how this was romantic. I really don't. It's Pretty Woman in a corset. I didn't find Pretty Woman to be particularly romantic, either.The virgin auction angle was laughable, the story far too dependent on past Malory shenanigans, and the villain was over the top.
Η σειρα της οικογενεια Μαλορυ βλετιωνεται διαρκως ...αυτη την ιστορια την διαβασα κυριολεκτικα σε μια μερα ...Καλογραμμενο με δυο ομορφους ηρωες , ρομαντικο ....υπεροχο..
