https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48865.Twenty_one_Stories
Graham Greene is one author whose work I read mostly when I was younger.
For some reason, I had read most of his novels, but bypassed his short stories.
Twenty-One Stories is an excellent collection.
Greene is no stranger to the feeling of dread which seems to suffuse so many of these tales, most especially his creepy 1936 story "The Basement Room," in which we see a child retreat into fear when dealing with the confidences of adults, which are beyond his ability to understand.
During their relatively short heyday, there have been so many great ones -- some of which can be found in this excellent collection.
Apsolutno sam navučena na ovog čovjeka. Ne čitam često kratke priče, ali ove nisam mogla preskočiti i drago mi je da nisam. Sjajan humor, neobične priče, neobični ljudi i njihove često tragične sudbine.
Reading Alan Sillitoe's great collection last year, The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner was a big step for me; the stories were grim, true, flavorful and deeply affecting.
It's simply a story about a man going back to the town of his childhood, and experiencing all the memories and emotions as he looks for places and landmarks he remembered.
I think I'll be re-reading this collection again someday.
There are two heavyweights in 21 Stories, a collection gathered from 25 years of Greene's career.
The other tower is The Basement Room which was the basis for Greene's screenplay for the film The Fallen idol.
This was around the time that Reed and Green were globetrotting and gathering items for the Circus (MI-6).The surprise of 21 Stories had to be Greek Meets Greek which oddly didn't concern the EU bailout but instead was a wartime encounter of schemers, which anticipates the ascent of online universities, and culminates in a hilarious doubled-edged farce.
I picked it up a second time and the stories still held me but I could see that they were not (yet) Greene’s best writing, given that many were written during his formative years.The situations are bizarre and typical of “Greene-land”: a gigolo encountering role reversal with a prosperous whore, a man who wants to commit suicide with his reluctant girlfriend, a witness having the unenviable task of identifying a killer from among identical twins, a religious businessman whose assistant’s main job is to schedule his calendar with religious events that will earn him indulgences in the next life, a bum meeting a murderer in a darkened cinema – or is it the blood-soaked victim?Many stories end up with a dead body, many have various possible endings, many are narration-heavy, and quite a number of the shorter pieces such as “The Second Death,” “Proof Positive” and “Alas Poor Maling” are underdeveloped.

The dark reflectiveness of "A Drive in the Country" could have singlehandedly made this book worth reading; the gentle irony of "When Greek Meets Greek" and the bizarre horror of "A Little Place Off the Edgware Road" pushed it right over the edge into being a true pleasure to read. I'll definitely be picking up more Greene in the future.
One tells the story of the 'hint' he received that changed his life.5.
Alas, Poor Maling: a very short, very amusing story of a man with an unusual stomach problem.8.
A Little Place Off the Edgware Road: a little horror story about a man who hates his life and his body.10.
Across the Bridge: a tragi-comedy set at the Mexico about a wealthy but crooked English businessman trying to get home.
Proof Positive: A man asks for a special meeting of the Psychical Society to present 'proof positive' that the spirit outlives the body.2o.
In one she assigned Virginia Woolf's "To the Lighthouse" and in the second, "Donnie Darko", Mr. Greene's "The Destructors" which is the lead story in "Twenty-one Stories".
Graham's work often touches on these issues and the general decay of society with a dash of British Catholicism thrown in.I am not a great fan of Modernist Realism but these stories are wonderful little gems.
Seeing as I was driven to this master of 20th-century storytelling by a SF film about a boy in telepathic communications with the universal intelligence, it was fitting that the author ended this work with "The End of the Party", a tale about telepathically and empathically linked twins.
read this some years ago, and it has many fine stories in it. I particularly liked and remember the blue movie one. Oh and I should add 'The Destructors' - a very fine story about a gang of 'feral' kids who destroy a house from within while the owner is away (I read this in the 60s first of all in an anthology we had at school, and felt exhilerated and disturbed by it) and, of course, The Basement Room, which was made into a very good film.
(That one is "The Basement Room.") Last year, from May to October, I read every novel Graham Greene ever published.
While I was in the midst of doing that, a few people said to me that Greene was a better short story writer than a novelist.
The short stories, then, show Greene making appearances in magazines.
Greene had a responsibility to the magazines which allowed his works within their covers.
Every story in this collection is worthwhile, but the masterpiece is "The Basement Room." It's a novella, of course, more like his novels than his other stories.I have yet to read Greene's two later collections.
That took me a looong time to read, but I loved it. The stories were all good (I'd forget the time period for most was early '30s). They were pretty dark - which I also kind of enjoyed. The last one totally creeped me out.
Short story collections are invariably a mixed bag but this one is much less so.
There is a consistency of quality here that is truly impressive.
For example, the stories that bookend the collection deal with teenagers in very different ways.
In the opener, The Destructors a feral power struggle is unleashed, while closing story, The End Of The Party is a tighter internal world.
I've read some Graham Greene novels and look forward to reading more, but this collection was of the same quality, if not higher than those.
'A Drive in the Country' is among the stand-outs in the collection for me, along with three stories about children.
The first is 'The End of the Party', one of Greene's earliest short stories, about a boy terrified of going to a party and being forced to play hide and seek.
It's an uneven collection, and some of the other stories are much slighter, but even in the least memorable ones there are always strange thoughts and striking turns of phrase to bring the reader up short.
This book was my first exposure to Graham Greene.
I very quickly found myself reading (and more or less enjoying) these perfectly crafted stories as items of social history and examples of wonderfully understated prose in which no word is wasted.
I should not, however, allow my personal preference for optimistic art and happy endings to prevent me from appreciating that every one of these stories is perfectly honed.
I did enjoy the way Greene leaves a lot to the reader, allowing the stories to stand on their own, often unresolved and unexplained.
Deals with many of the themes of his novels, in miniature of course; some of the stories touch on the same spiritual elements of his other works.The best of the stories here display Greene's natural but subtle humour.
Though admittedly it's probably very difficult to write a gripping tale based around the doctrine of Transubstantiation.Stories like "Across the Bridge" takes us into the familiar territory of "Greeneland", a depressing, hot damp village in Mexico where the protagonist is doomed from the get-go.
The Destructors – (1954) – 3 stars.
Special Duties – (1954) – 4 stars.
The Blue Film – (1954) – 3 stars.
Across the Bridge – (1938) – 3 stars.
A Drive in the Country – (1937) – 3 stars.
The Innocent – (1937) –1 star.
The Basement Room – (1936) – 2 stars.
A Chance for Mr Lever – (1936) – 2 stars.
Brother – (1936) – 3 stars.
Jubilee – (1936) – 1 star.
A Day Saved – (1935) – 1 star.
I Spy – (1930) – 3 stars.
Proof Positive – (1930) – 3 stars.
Una colección irregular del talento del autor en el género breve. Algo de joyceano o ribeyreano en algunos de sus personajes que se ven enfrentados a decisiones para salir de la intrascendencia de sus vidas ("Una oportunidad", "El hermano") o simplemente tienen que encarar la frustración ("El jubileo", "Un lugar junto a Edgware Road") o la pérdida de la inocencia ("El espía", "La inocencia"). También cierta influencia de Poe en algunos de los cuentos fantásticos ("La segunda muerte", "Prueba decisiva", "El final de la fiesta"). Me gustaron más sus relatos cortos que los largos. 9 cuentos buenos de 21.
About half of the stories in this book are fantastic.
The other half are dull, unoriginal or some horrid combination of the two.
Excessively British, but even that works for it every so often.
Mainly picked up for the short story "The Destructors" since it was mentioned in "Donnie Darko." That story, btw, was one of the excessively strange ones that I'm not too sure if was good or not.
The opening story, "The Basement Room," was incredibly original, though, and took great pains to share the story of an adulterer murdering his wife in a way that had not been done before.
I tend to to think of Greene as a better novelist than short story writer; his precision and economy of language make his novels appealingly lean, but, ironically, they sometimes make the short stories seem underdeveloped-- sketches of stories, good ideas that might have been fleshed out more. With that said, there is plenty to intrigue here, and the book does a good job covering all of what Greene does-- some of the stories are suspenseful, some philosophical, some humorous-- which makes it more than worthwhile for those who like Graham Greene.
This is Graham Greene at his best, brilliantly illuminating his understanding of the human character in twenty-one short stories. A truly substantial work of literature, it is as entertaining as it is thought provoking.
creepy and gruesome. Is GG always like this?
Después del hype por los Los destructores que me dejó Donnie Darko, los demás cuentos me parecieron bien, a veces reía, -y a veces no entendía un carajo-. El último cuento me gustó mucho.
did not get the point of most stories....
I believe that this short story collection gives an (overall) exceptional taste of the sort of writer Greene is precisely because it offers a wide range of exceptional examples of his more relevant themes.
However, although this emphasizes Greene's reputed revulsion of the biological functions of the human body, 'Alas, Poor Maling' does not deal with anything more than the absurd.~3.5/58) 'The Case for the Defence'Another strange story.
I ended reading the entire book!Like 'Alas, Poor Maling', this story deals with the human body, more specfically since it retains a sort of 'life within death'...
'The Basement Room' is a pre-war story about a 7-year old boy whose parents go on holiday, leaving him in the care of the married butler and housekeeper.
'The Hint of an Explanation' explores similar themes but with religion rather than class providing the spark.
For all its implied menace, there is much less reliance on melodrama and a sense of benevolence which makes the story all the more haunting.The first story in the collection (and the last one to be written) flips the theme of childhood innocence on its head.
An interesting collection, but one which feels a bit hit-or-miss.
For me, the best story by a long way was the famous one, "The Destructors" (remember Donnie Darko?), where a group of boys tear down an old man's house and burn his life savings while he is away for the weekend.
In this story, and a few others, the way the action evokes a deeper metaphysical drama is compelling.
Other stories in the collection feel less nuanced.
Still, these excluded there are still plenty of others that are quite decent.Perhaps England has just changed too much for Greene to work as well as he might have at one time.
It was funny to be reading this right after Olivia Manning's A Romantic Hero as both collect stories written over the course of roughly the same period - Greene's between 1929 and 1954, Manning's between 1938 and 1966 - the difference being that Manning's are arranged chronologically and Greene's (oddly) are arranged in reverse chronological order.
Many of the others are very good, but the last seven or eight I didn't really care for.
Green is a captivating short-story writer. These differs from his novels, in that there often turns out to be a sudden sharp twist at the end of the short stories. I found a peculiar darkness to them, more so than in The Power and the Glory and The End of the Affair.
Classic Graham Greene.
