https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11455485-satantango
I am expelled from the depths of evil; I leave behind the colony, the putrid rooms, the decay.
Rain has followed me around, accompanying my reading of Satantango.
The few people left in the colony retreat, powerless, in the face of an abstract disease, incapable of defending or saving themselves.
In his hands, the once hopeless puppets return to life, as he infuses them with hope and renewed energy.
Slowly, I immersed into the suffocating world of the colony; I could sense the moans of collapsing houses, the lament of an eternal rain, the weaving of cobwebs, the advancing of mold.
But there I stayed; lurking under the disturbing, frequently tingling, always jagging edges of this strange melody oozing from the tango being played in a far land in Hungary.
Like a seasoned Pied Piper, the all-powerful Irimiás suspended the bleak kaleidoscope of life with the vigor of a rising sun and I stood, peeping into the rustic juxtaposition of synthetic hopes, unaware of the shaking soil beneath my hoisted feet.
The satan-tango was leaving rapidly changing colors on the bodies of all under its hypnotic vibration, a few villagers with unusually twinkling eyes to be precise.
krasznahorkai's hard at work on the next few in the series: #2 Beezelbuballet#3 Mephistophelesamba#4 Azazelambada#5 Antichristarantella#6 Luciferumba#7 Belialimbo#8 Asmodeusalsa
A tango is danced with structure, with different orchestrated movements leading in one direction, even though the dancers step back occasionally, following the music of the Pied Piper summoning humanity to create a meaningless yet passionate act of artistic performance.The true power is in the discovery that words can interfere with reality.
Following the storyteller, history moves forwards and backwards until the circle closes ...
Satan is a brilliant dancer.Satantango reminded me of my favourite ABBA song when I was a child, addictive and fairylike, only it lacks the passionate eros of a Latin dance.
Satantango by Laszlo Krasznahorkai has received numerous great reviews and write ups but for me this was a very depressing and claustrophobic read.
Longlisted for the Independent Foreign Fiction Prize in 2013 but it was the cover that caught my attention as I browsed in a book shop and I am a sucker for a great cover.
Krasznakorkai visits a number of their stories glancingly: a reclusive, alcoholic doctor who documents the goings-on in the village from the scrupulous vantage of his window; a couple of swindlers who attempt to steal the community's profits from the sale of its livestock; an earthy, sensual wife who either beds or frustrates every man in town (if only perhaps because of her lack of any formidable competition); an abused and disturbed little girl who tortures and kills a cat in a desperate attempt to feel some mitigated sense of power; and a religious fanatic who decries the decadence of this strange, withering community.Everything changes with the return of Irimiás and Petrina, two members of the collective who were reported dead eighteen months before.
A powerful open text, one rife with both fire and human failures.
As I quipped early, it's a Faulkner noir in the Magyar mud.
What ripens and stings is more akin to Beckett: a waiting for IKEA, with ideological trappings.
The novel opens essentially with a bell in the night.
Then it rains.
The contemporary reader will ascribe a historical arc to the symbolism, unfortunately the novel was written in 1985.
INXS didn't script the Velvet Revolution.
Many phenomenon are repositioned after the fact.The novel in translation appears in the wake of Bela Tate's imperious adaptation.
Çok ilginç bir şey belirtmek isterim ki “Şeytan Tangosu” Krasznahorkai’nin ilk romanı.
Bu sitenin yaşayanları özenle seçilmiş, Tanrı’nın şefkatinden mahrum kalmış, aciz ama bir o kadar da yozlaşmış ve daha fazla yozlaşmaya açık; birey olmaya çok uzak insancıklar: Bay ve Bayan Schmidt, Doktor, Futaki, Meyhaneci, Halicsler, Kramerlar ve diğerleri… Krasznahorkai bize ilkin bu insanların, site içerisindeki yaşamlarını anlatıyor.
Bir gelişme kaydedemiyor gibi bir hissin içine düşüp, Laszlo’nun bizi hapsettiği o zamanın içerisinde sitenin ve insanların her haline ve ayrıntısına hâkim oluyoruz.
Ama orada beklediklerinden çok daha farklı bir gerçekle buluşuyorlar.
Celladına aşık garipler ve otorite, otorite, otorite.Kitabın sonunda da Doktor üzerinden çok şık bir hamle yapıyor yazar.
Once again, I wrote a full review and then, as I was about to save it, I accidently changed screens and deleted it. It was brilliant. It really was. I spent two hours on it.I even made some great connections to Goethe's Faust (Easter bells announcing the resurrection and 'Walpurgisnacht') and to Nietzsche's eternal return. I believe that I have captured the spirit of the book by deleting the review. Absurd.I highly recommend it.
It takes six steps forward, and six steps back, leaving chaos and the blackest of humor.The novel is an allegorical story of a dance with the devil - the characters in their bleak little rainy hole of a village futz around, and every time they try and move forwards, the inertia of their lives drags them back.
Just read some of the sentences out loud.But the plot and all those things are secondary to the astonishing language and detail of the author.
Krasznahorkai has an astonishing grasp of the slowness of memory and time.4.5 stars.
I felt a sort of flatness and sameness to many scenes, which evoked a humdrum form of bleakness (a life of boring work and meagre means that has to be got used to, with banter and dancing as periodic escapism) - but it also meant it did not usually feel like a truly spectacular novel, simply a good one.
(His Far-Eastern books are interested in the transcendent.) Understanding this - and also reading several interviews with Krasznahorkai, and the stories in The Last Wolf/ Herman, which I liked very much - meant I started to find Krasznahorkai more intriguing as a person and a writer, that he was a a writer whose work it felt possible to connect with.
Contains spoilers.If I change one letter in the famous dictum of Julian of Norwich I can, I think, reach the core of László Krasznahorkai's world-view: All shall be hell, and all shall be hell and all manner of things shall be hell.In Satantango, as in The Melancholy or Resistance and War and War, we are presented with worlds without pity in which all hope is vested in a single possibility which, once realised, begins to make everything much worse than it was and then, of course, there are always other people....The influence of Beckett seemed to me to be stronger in this, his first novel, than in the other two and I imagined George Szirtes smiling to himself as he gave an Unnamable character the words: "I'll go on", but if this is the world of Godot, then it is one on which the worse thing possible happens: Godot turns up!
He writes in a high modernist style, that's vague in places and fairly abstract, and even though the writing seems out of place with the setting, it doesn't really feel like it.
He cleverly weaves themes like communism and alienation into his narrative that helps the story feel that bit more realistic.
Anyone looking to feel like a summer's day whilst reading this can forget it.
It's like being stuck in a world set against the darkest tones of black and white, with out of tune violins crying away slowing ready for the last day on earth.
Neverovatno mi je i dalje da je ovo bilo čiji prvi roman (ili mi je sad već od silnih debitantskih grozota otupela želja da ih čitam), a još više da se prevod tek sad pojavio, 30 godina nakon originala, i da je samo još Melanholija otpora prevedena, koju ću potražiti već od ponedeljka (izeš ispite i školu :D).Prikaz pišem pre svega jer imam upozorenje za sve čitaoce: ne čitajte prvo predgovor, pa delo jer je kod nas očito praksa da se brka šta ide u predgovor, a šta u pogovor.
ono mučenje od prvih 150 strana nisam naplatila.Pojedini elementi su prenaglašeni beskrajnim seciranjem (pa onda još jedan krug nazad, ako neko nešto slučajno nije zapamtio), drugi, pak, nedovoljno razvijeni, gomila epizoda koje do kraja ne dobijaju smisao, insistiranje na mističnosti gde god se učini da bi moglo biti dosadno, onda nekakvi snovi, pa mišomor, pa mačke, pa tango, pa pauci, pa lebdenja, kurve, prepisan odlomak iz Pinokija i tako...razgranato na sve strane, da jadni čitalac može samo da promalja nos iz tog nekog šiblja, pa šta uhvati, to mu je.Ne mogu da prihvatim obrazloženje da je ovo sve baš tako trebalo da bude, imajući u vidu kako je zaokružena priča (da ne spojlujem), jer znam nekoliko uspelijih rešenja prikazivanja radnje iz ...hm...
تقف الرواية بمزاج تأملي على هشاشة العالم ، هناك مكان ما في جسد الحياة يحاول الروائي محاصرته ثم يتركه لنا كي نتغلب عليه. !سأبقى ممتنا لهذه الرواية دهراً. هناك روائين في طرف هذا العالم يراقبون تحركاته جيداً كأنهم كانوا قد شهدوا بأعينهم خلقه من قبل الله !
تقف الرواية بمزاج تأملي على هشاشة العالم ، هناك مكان ما في جسد الحياة يحاول الروائي محاصرته ثم يتركه لنا كي نتغلب عليه. !‏سأبقى ممتنا لهذه الرواية دهراً. هناك روائين في طرف هذا العالم يراقبون تحركاته جيداً كأنهم كانوا قد شهدوا بأعينهم خلقه من قبل الله !
"Ansonsten schwimme ich verzweifelt in bleyernsten Buchstabenstrudeln (…)" (Arno Schmidt an Hans Wollschläger am 28.01.1963)Vielleicht ist wenigstens dies ein Vorzug des Älterwerdens: dass man nachsichtiger wird, auch mit sich selbst.
Ich kann mir eingestehen, dass SATANSTANGO mir zu düster ist und eine unheilvolle (=unheilige?
Nach einem Drittel des Romans ziehe ich die Reißleine, auch wenn diese "Schwäche" mit meinem Leseanspruch und dem Slogan gewisser Lutschpastillen kollidiert, der da lautet: Sind sie zu stark, bist du zu schwach!Mir ist SATANSTANGO zu starker Tobak.
Eine Wiederbegegnung zu einem anderen Zeitpunkt ist aber nicht ausgeschlossen.
The Béla Tarr film Sátántangó was unsettling in itself, even with not understanding exactly what was going on in the underlying plot and the meaning of what was being portrayed on the screen.
• Superstitions are born of a false environment and believed at great peril, that is, if a single life matters at all.Some would argue that all the work of László Krasznahorkai is unfair and demand their money returned in good stead, and hastily.
I am not sure what I would think of this novel had I not seen the Béla Tarr film Sátántangó first.
--SatantangoA Note about the AuthorA Note about the Translator
Una storia raccontata per immagini, per tessere che poste una accanto all’altra vanno a costituire il mosaico di Satantango, un mosaico che sembra privo di un centro, nel senso che non c’è un protagonista assoluto ma una serie di personaggi (tutti molto bel tratteggiati e sviluppati nei loro caratteri) ognuno dei quali è protagonista della “sua” storia, della storia che vive e racconta dal suo punto di vista.
Solo le fattezze però, ché Satantango non è un romanzo di eroi o di lieto fine e Ieremiás si rivelerà essere un truffatore di basso cabotaggio, un piccolo uomo che vive di espedienti come tutti gli altri.
Sátántangó (1994): film onlyDescription: In a small dilapidated village in 1990s Hungary, life has come to a virtual standstill.
The autumn rains have started.
The villagers expect to receive a large cash payment that evening, and then plan to leave.
Some want to abscond earlier with more than their fair share of the money.
However they hear that the smooth talking Irimias, whom they thought had died, is coming back.
They are apprehensive that he will take all their money in one of his grandiose schemes to keep the community going.
Nella prima parte Krasznahorkai descrive una comunità di straccioni dediti più che altro al bere e al furto reciproco, senza piegare nulla.
La povertà non basta a fare un inferno, per quello occorre la miseria e "miserabile" si adatta perfettamente a descrivere molti dei personaggi del romanzo.
Non mi sembra casuale che la scrittura si trasformi radicalmente, passando da una struttura ipotattica a una paratattica appena dopo la comparsa del "demonio", senza soluzione di continuità.
C'è una relazione tra questa unicità e il finale del romanzo?Il romanzo sembra incompiuto, ci sono tanti di quei nodi non sciolti da irritare il lettore.
One thing is clear after this reading: Even wild horses couldn’t drag me to the Great Hungarian Plain.
I had to force myself each time to pick up the book again and continue reading and then I could only persevere for one or two chapters before I got stuck in the ever-present mud.
Nevertheless, two or three times the prose was able to create something that, with some goodwill, could be interpreted as an implied smile.
Just as Breughel paintings are revered for their almost musical composition, Krasznahorkai’s long-awaited (in English at least) Satantango unfolds likes a piece of music – a tango - in style – but not in tone.
It also works like a desiccated and transmogrified Wizard of Oz where imagination leads to failure, little girls kill animals, humans fall more easily than ambulant scarecrows and your friends kick you in the face when you need it least.
But I really can't see all the devastating sadness some (enthusiastic!) readers talk about.I mean, has anybody noticed the satirical undertones of this novel?
Time expands indefinitely in a stifling dimension of morbid withdrawal, like in Kieslowski's or Borowczyk's films of the same period.Let aside all Chapter Two, which is a satire of the communist beaurocracy reminding once again of Bulgakov's masterpiece, in the first half of the book we witness the characters turn into parodies of themselves, horrible masks of greed, lust and envy - the nasty crowds that haunted the visionary fantasies of Goya and Ensor.
a book i wished to return to not one i could not put down.
they escape the experience of life and themselves through a variety of means of withdrawal and avoidance while they wait the return of a dubious character, who they have imbued with the powers of saving them.
the book is filled with religious-spiritual nihilistic dance steps.
i found the book strangely gripping.
i turned the pages to the very end while taking in the allegorical symbols and meanings.
there is much to be mined and learned from this book.
A wickedly smart tale with a delicious sting in its tail. No one does Bleakness like these European writers.  Satantango with its "suffocating sense of sadness," is not for everyone.Better steal NR's 'Filmed' shelf & watch Béla Tarr's looong, haunting, cult movie:http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0111341/But here's the rub: even the movie is not for everyone- didn't I mention 'cult'?Edit: 23/5/15Here's a fantastic review of the book:http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archi...
Proseguirò con piccoli cenni che vogliono invitare alla lettura perché ne vale veramente la pena.Io, solitamente rileggo solo i classici ma ogni regola necessita delle sue belle eccezioni.Più passano i giorni da quando ho chiuso questo libro e più penso che devo assolutamente rileggerlo.Basta!!Musica maestro: tango!
☆•.¸¸.•´¯`•.¸¸.¤ ~ ☆•.¸¸.•´¯`•.¸¸.¤ ~ ☆•.¸¸.•´¯`•.¸¸.¤ ~ ☆•.¸¸.•´¯`•.¸¸.¤ ~ ”ormai era solo questione di “qualche oretta appena”, e Irimiás e Petrina sarebbero arrivati per porre fine a quell’“estenuato squallore” che durava da anni, per spazzare via quel silenzio molliccio, quelle subdole campane dei morti che ti svegliano all’alba facendoti saltar giù dal letto, per poi dover guardare, ricoperti di sudore freddo e senza poter far nulla, il lento, inarrestabile andare in malora di tutto quanto.”
László Krasznahorkai is a modern literary genius.
Forget about your modern American authors, they cannot begin to compare to Krasznahorkai's work.
Yes, this is the only author alive who does not know periods exist.
Yes, his work might be difficult to read but his stories are amazing.
Caught in vapors of communism and collapse, the community has high hopes to come into some cash and leave behind their desolate existence.
It rains incessantly throughout the story.
Each character of the community falls into a part of your soul and Krasznahorkai ends this amazing story just as Dostoevsky would, making the reader thirst for more.

Den ganzen Roman durchzieht eine ausnehmend pessimistische Grundstimmung, die Lethargie der Dorfbewohner legt sich, so mein Empfinden, zuweilen wie Mehltau auf den Text und den Leser.
Manches Mal meinte ich angesichts der Trostlosigkeit der Szenerie förmlich im Morast festzustecken, ein Weiterlesen war nur noch schwer vorstellbar.Krasznahorkai hat das Buch in den 1980er Jahren geschrieben, als eine Parabel auf den ungarischen Sozialismus.
Diese Atmosphäre einer gefühlten Stagnation und des verlorenen Glaubens an die großspurigen Zukunftsversprechen, greift der Roman gekonnt auf und macht sie in den hilflosen Bemühungen der Dorfbewohner sichtbar.
Er stellt die ganze Handlung in einen Rahmen, den man (um in der Bildsprache des Titels zu bleiben) nur als ein Abbild der Hölle bezeichnen kann.
Der ungarische Autor entwickelt wie bei Dürrenmatts Besuch der alten Dame ein Szenario, in dem eine Person von außen in eine Dorfgemeinschaft eindringt und sie verführt.
Nicht etwa bei Buch oder Autor, sondern bei mir als Leser.
Ich bin einfach nicht geeignet für das Buch.
Das Buch vermittelte schon hervorragend ein traurig-beklemmendes Gefühl bei mir, es erzeugte aber keine Bilder in meinem Kopf.
Nach der Hälfte des Buchs konnte ich mich nicht mehr auf den Inhalt konzentrieren.
Ein Tango, bei dem ich nicht führte, sondern wie eine Anfängerin hin- und gerissen wurde vom Satanstänzer.
هذه الرواية متعبة جدا ..
الأحداث والشخصيات كثيرة فكرت أكثر من مرة في التوقف عن القراءة إلا أن هناك ما كان يشدني للإكمال رغم عدم فهمي للكثيروضياعي بين الشخصيات ..
محاصرون بقرية بائسة ,حياتهم قاسية وصعبة يصاحب سير الأحداث هطول أمطار غزيرة مما ساهم في زيادة جرعة الكآبة ..
إلا أن يأتي الأمل أو المخلصتبدأ الرواية بأحداث غريبة تصاحب استيقاظ إحدى الشخصيات " فوتاكي " على صوت الأجراسلتكون النهاية بذات الغرابة ..
فرانز كافكا ..هل جاءت أيام الانتظار والأحلام بالنتيجة المرجوة ..هل كان إرمياس شعلة الأمل في القرية وكم تشبه تلك القرية بما قاسته وبأحلامها وبمنقذها العديد من بلداننا اليوم  3.5
L'Atteso accentra in se l'attese di tutti, capace di modificare un fato nero ed inevitabile, costruttore di senso e donatore di speranza.La stessa struttura del libro procede come una via via più veloce elevazione verso l'epifania di Irimias (cioè il suo discorso ai suoi "discepoli") e poi un lento e disilluso rotolamento verso il prosaico e tristo finale - Krasznahorkai gioca molto bene con il tempo della narrazione nella prima parte, in cui i capitoli si sovrappongono in un senso di ripetitività e di ritorno all'indietro che accresce la claustrofobia della condizione dei protagonisti.

Apsurd, apokalipsa, strah od smrti, besmisla, ispraznosti, vremena, pomalo Kafkijanski, Beketovski, a opet autentično, duboko lokalno, a opet duboko univerzalno, neobično i čudnovato, stravično i ironično a opet sa finim dozama humora, zaglavljeno u panonsko blato, u bezimenom bespuću beskrajne ravnice...nije knjiga za popraviti raspoloženje, za euforiju niti bilo šta slično, mračna je i teška, ali-sjajna.
“E vide se stesso, sulla croce della culla e della bara, mentre con fatica si contraeva ancora un’ultima volta, per poi ritrovarsi, in virtù di un ordine perentorio e ineluttabile, completamente nudo nelle mani dei beccamorti, tra i ghigni di quegli altri indaffarati scuoiatori di cadaveri, dove non poteva non cogliere la misura di tutte le cose umane”.Non semplice per la trama e lo stile, ma Satantango è una opera che, nonostante l’angoscia e la sofferenza, vive di poesia e di attesa, come un moderno Godot Beckettiano.
It's been awhile since I've given a book 5 stars but there is just something about this book that I loved. It's basically plotless (which normally I'm not a fan of), it has strange but really rather funny characters and is almost dreamlike or maybe more nightmare like, because there's this strange mood throughout. I was just totally into it.
The movie takes the best elements of the book: namely the oppressive mood, the rain, the real-time unfolding of events, and makes them so tangible.
Having seen the movie, though, it was nice to read the book and figure out all the intricate workings behind what was simply on screen; I finally get all the connections now.Not to be too negative either, because maybe it's unfair to judge this book by the film.
Mình phải công nhận rằng đây là cuốn sách văn học khó hiểu nhất mà mình từng đọc hết.
Câu văn dài lê thê, cốt truyện thì phân mảnh, đứt đoạn, duy chỉ có cái không gian u ám giống như những cơn mưa bất tận mùa mưa bão của miền Trung trút lên cái không khí ô nhiễm, xám xịt của Hà Nội là vẫn được duy trì từ đầu đến cuối truyện.
Thật sự trong truyện cũng có vài chi tiết khá hay nhưng tổng quan lại thì mình chẳng hiểu được truyện muốn truyền tải cái gì.
faz justiça ao filme. e vice-versa.
Man findet schwer Zugang zu den Charakteren, kann sich die ungarischen Namen schwer merken, versteht das Beschriebene nur schwer, wenn überhaupt, und müht sich damit, die inhaltlichen Lücken mit Sinn zu füllen.Trotzdem, oder gerade deshalb, ist das eine tolle Lektüre.
Mit Charakteren, die dann doch sehr lebendig werden: Die leichtlebige und von allen begehrte Frau Schmidt – im ersten Kapitel habe ich mir sie keineswegs als solche Granate vorgestellt – bei dem Namen, in dieser Umgebung?; die kleine Estike, geistig zurückgeblieben, ungeliebt, unschuldig-sadistisch und todessehnsüchtig; und natürlich Irimiás, Erlöser und Betrüger, oder einfach das, was andere in ihm sehen wollen.Es wird sogar oft recht amüsant.
https://pulse.rs/satantango/ Pre nekoliko meseci sam napisao tekst o romanu Satantango, nisam ovde stavljao nikakav pregled zbog toga, knjiga je zanimljiva, a prevod na srpski je privukao je stvarno dosta pažnje.
-  Overgrown estate of Besné, France  Sátántangó - László Krasznahorkai, dans la traduction de Joëlle Dufeuilly, Gallimard, 2000. En Hongrie, les jours mesquins et sordides des derniers occupants apathiques d'une coopérative agricole après la chute du bloc communiste. Livre en forme de divagation sur l'inconsistance et la finitude de la vie humaine. Thèmes mineurs : L'entropie, l'inertie, la déréliction, le mépris de tous pour tous, l'indifférence, la convoitise, l'habitude.Où chacun cherche à e
Où l'écriture est à la fois acte initial et création cyclique, arbitraire, déterminée, dans une interrogation radicale et fondamentale sur la vertu et l'utilité d'écrire, sur l'utilité de créer, sur l'inconvénient d'exister."[Le docteur] avait acquis la faculté de tenir tête, par l'intervention de l'écriture, au défi lancé en permanence par l'ordre unilatéral des choses et jusqu'à un certain point il était capable de définir la structure élémentaire des évènements qui apparemment tournoyaient librement !..." p.372"Soit je suis devenu fou, soit, par la grâce de Dieu, j'ai découvert cet après-midi que je détenais un pouvoir magnétique.
Uvjerena sam da se ova knjiga zove Sátántangó isključivo jer bolje zvuči od Sátáncsárdás.Roman se otvara rečenicom u kojoj se jedan od likova budi iz sna da bi se suočio sa situacijom (kao i Gregor Samsa) koja je apsolutno apsurdna: začetak trodnevne kišurine (koja stalno, komično i opresivno, pada), zvonjava zvona koja ne postoje, hladnoća, blato, opći užas.
Roman počinje prvim poglavljem, ide do šestog, nakon čega se vraća na prvo (I-VI-I), te završava istom rečenicom kojom i počinje, jedući sam sebe u svojoj konstrukciji kao zmijica koja je počela gutati vlastiti rep.
Do they miss the thing by waiting for it?The very first sentence of the novel highlights Krasznahorkai's inimitable prose (deliberate omission of commas replicated below) as well as the dark sense of foreboding with which all the characters grapple:One morning near the end of October not long before the first drops of the mercilessly long autumn rains began to fall on the cracked and saline soil on the western side of the estate (later the stinking yellow sea of mud would render footpaths impassable and put the town too beyond reach) Futaki woke to hear bells.The same bells are remarked upon by the doctor, a drunk who has retreated into his apartment and his books.
