https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233044.The_Shop_on_Blossom_Street
What a wonderful story about an eclectic group of women who form an unexpected friendship at a knitting class.
Honestly I had left this book sitting on my TBR pile for so long because I thought it was about a knitting shop.
I was wrong, the Yarn shop was simply the place that the women met.This book tells the story of four women and the difficulties each of them are facing in their lives.
You just never know what goes on behind closed doors.This is a wonderful story that reminds you about importance of relationships and friendships.
Not the type of book I thought I would like but this author has been on my to-read list forever so I decided to give it a go.Was the story told mostly on the surface?
Yes. Other than the facts being given about each of the characters, did I get a super insightful look into who they were and what made them tick?
No, but without making the book super long, it would have been difficult given all of the different characters and sub-plots.
Yep. Despite that, the book kept me interested and reading.
I think Debbie Macomber is my Fairy God-author. She seems to have come along just when I was in need of her cozy, comforting stories about relate-able female characters that you actually want to root for. Her prose is easy and smooth, and along with her warm-hearted but un-Pollyanna-like stories, results in a unique style that is soothing and unpretentious. In other words, I find Debbie Macomber's writing to be likable, lovable, and just what the doctor ordered to zap those over-extended mommy blues!
I will use the same preface I did for the other knitting book I reviewed: I knit and have been knitting for a long time (well since 2003 or 2004) ....and my projects range from simple to increasingly difficult.....This preface is going somewhere I swear....I started knitting b/c I like being crafty and I like doing something with my hands while watching tv other than snacking. That's it. And its just so damn cool to make my own clothing and such.I also knit during down times at my hospital job..
I will use the same preface I did for the other knitting book I reviewed: 	 I knit and have been knitting for a long time (well since 2003 or 2004) ....and my projects range from simple to increasingly difficult.....This preface is going somewhere I swear....I started knitting b/c I like being crafty and I like doing something with my hands while watching tv other than snacking.
And really have to start telling people that even though I knit I will NOT enjoy every "knitting" book there is out there.
Out of the 3 "knitting" books I read, this might the better of all 3.
The Shop on Blossom Street by Debbie MacomberLydia Hoffman is a survivor of cancer she opens a knitting shop on blossom street and she decides to teach how to knit the first lesson is how to make a baby blanket,Jacqueline Donovan is in an unhappy marriage and now her son has married a woman that Jackie loathes.
With a grandchild on the way, she decides to knit a baby blanket to improve between her and her daughter-in-law.
Carol decides that knitting a baby blanket may give them the luck and success they need in her struggle to conceive.
Right??The writing wasn't bad per se, but the characters were two-dimensional and I figured out how everyone's plotline would end about 30 pages into the book.
Her first student is Jacqueline, who has just found out the daughter-in-law she hates is pregnant, and is no longer on speaking terms with her son because of the nasty things she said to his wife.
The second student is Carol, who has attempted in-vitro twice, only to have it end in miscarriage.
The third student is Alix (yes, I know), who is on probation for pot possession and has purple hair (that's how we know she's a rebel!).
I like to knit....when I can.
I like to read...all the time.
Debbie Macomber is a great author of good wholesome fun fiction.
She incorporates the lives of the women outside of the knitting realm.
Topics like family relationships, cancer, self esteem, ect.
add to the realism of her characters.
Her follow up novel " A Good Yarn" wasn't as impressive as this first book [The Shop on Blossom Street] in her knitting series.
I also found she has a companion book each of these titles at craft stores.
They contain the patterns for the items knitted in each of her books.
This was a good read,It is a story of 4 woman who suffer pain and have issues,how they finally accep
Uma história completamente absorvente de quatro mulheres totalmente diferentes umas das outras e que se tornam amigas devido a uma loja de tricot e às suas aulas nas tardes de sexta-feira.Um livro que adorei ler pois retrata um mundo (o mundo do tricot) que me é totalmente familiar.Uma vez mais a Debbie Macomber apresenta-nos uma história doce e que nos faz acreditar que os nossos sonhos se podem tornar realidade.
I loved it so much at page 300 that I went to the book store and bought A Good Yarn & Susannah's Garden. Yes, that sums up my review ;-)
It's a yarn shop that has been opened by Lydia Hoffman, a two-time cancer survivor who has undertaken this fledgling business as a reaffirmation of life and living.
She had taken up knitting as a means of coping with her cancer treatments.
She offers a beginning knitting class to which 3 women decide, for various reasons, to take part in.
Carol wants to make a blanket for her hoped for child.
A very eclectic group of women who find themselves bonding together to love and support one another in their various attempts to find love and pursue their dreams.
Predictable, sappy, WAY too focused on traditional gender roles... Should I go on? I should've guessed all this from the back of the book, but it was about a knitting shop, and I knit, so I picked it up. Oh well.
Two-haiku review:Knitting class of fourEach one with different problemsFriends help each otherFour different storiesKnitted together with loveVery nicely done
This was a joy to read.
I used to be an avid knitter, but these days I'm interested in line dancing, reading, and quilting.
This story is about a young woman who decides to open a knitting store.
She has had two bouts of cancer and a tough beginning for her 30 years.
Along with her shop she offers knitting classes and two have been with the same three participants.
These three women have nothing in common except their interest in learning to knit.
Lovely story and I'm delighted to know it is the first book of a series.
Who me?) It is the story of four stereotypes women who have nothing in common but bond in a knitting shop making the same baby blanket for different reasons.
Carol is the baby obsessed woman who can't conceive.
And finally to round out this lovely little group is Alix - you can tell by her name she is the tough chick who was ordered to knit a baby blanket for community service.
Knitting for community service?!?!
So much so that even though it is about knitting and I know there is a sequel (I might even own the sequel?) I haven't been able to make myself read it.
This wasn't at all what I was hoping it would be. I'd hoped for a gentle book based around knitting in the same vein as the Elm Creek Quilts book, but instead found it to be trashy, over-sexualised, and badly written. Had to give up reading it after about 80 pages as I simply couldn't bear it any longer - and I almost never give up on books, especially when I've had to pay to get them. I've only added it here in case I ever forget and decide to try these books again.
Couldn't put this one down :) although a tad predictable I loved the characters and more than one story line to follow that kept me reading :) very heartwarming!
I loved this book(series) more than Debbie's Cedar Cove
I done it backwards read book 2 and 4 in the series but was good to go back to the beginning where it all began. As with Debbie’s other books I enjoyed it very much.
I found myself laughing, crying, rejoicing, getting angry, and hurting along with the characters as they went through their different private struggles.Lydia Hoffman opens her yarn shop as a way to make a living AND a way to heal after beating cancer.
Even if you're not a knitter, this story will speak to you and reach you in the depths of your heart, and you'll be itching to read the other books in the series just so that you can continue to feel close to these characters that you'll soon wish were your next door neighbors!Macomber also makes sure to top off the knitter's meal with a pattern in every book.
The plot sounded like it would be predictable but entertaining enough - four women, knitting, relationships / babies / etc.
The characters - all of whom live in Seattle, which is a fairly liberal city, and most of whom are well-educated and not particularly religious - seem to be living in the 1950's, assuming that it is natural for a woman to quit her job upon getting married, even if she loves it, just in case any children should appear, and referring to a divorced man's relationship with a single woman as adultery.
I'm happy to take a little bit of traditional gender role nonsense with my chick lit, but this is going way overboard.
It was a fine book.
Pretty much what you'd expect out of a book of this style--good enough characters, good enough plot, fairly predictable, some parts that flowed well while others felt forced plus some plot points that don't actually work.
Still, it was a fine book and I don't feel like I wasted my time on it.
I actually listened to it on Overdrive before bed and it was good for that purpose of a light story that was easy to listen to.
If I find others in this series on Overdrive, I will likely listen to them but I won't be searching out the hard-copy books at the library.
So the book only got 4 out 5 stars even though I frequently reread it.
It was awesome for a feel good story.
It's a romance book, but not a bodice ripper.
The women are complex, have issues, and you can see why they made the choices that landed them in the position.
The only thing that stopped it from getting 5 stars was that at times it seemed flat.
Otherwise, it's a thoroughly good story to read when you want characters that you can enjoy and root for, and it not being all about making out or shooting people up.
I really enjoyed this book and all the characters. I look forward the next book.
one of the best books i have read! I love this book! every time i read it I want to break out my yarn and crochet! blossom street sounds like a amazing place to be!
Uma lição de vida
Another beautiful healing and heartwarming book in the Blossom Street series. Thank you again for sending me this one, Jennifer!
This is a wonderful story about an eclectic group of four women who from an unexpected friendship in a knitting class.
Three women join her class, not because they love to knit, but have various other reason to join in.
So, she joins the knitting class to make a baby blanket for her soon to be born grandchild.Carol is thirty-seven-year-old, and very successful women in the corporate world, same as her husband.
Carol joins the knitting class, to make a blanket for her hoped for child.
Both jacqueline and Alix are ready for verbal accusation and argument.These four women have different difficulties in life.
A couple years ago I was introduced to the writing of Debbie Macomber and surprised by how much I enjoyed it with a new-at-the-time novel,  Hannah's List . What I didn't discover until recently is that it was the seventh book in a series. As the ninth book just released and my mom reviewed it I became interested in the rest of the series and sought it out. The series starts with this book, The Shop on Blossom Street.I've been blessed with a copy of this from a publicist and have enjoyed reading
A couple years ago I was introduced to the writing of Debbie Macomber and surprised by how much I enjoyed it with a new-at-the-time novel, 
. What I didn't discover until recently is that it was the seventh book in a series.
As the ninth book just released and my mom reviewed it I became interested in the rest of the series and sought it out.
The series starts with this book, The Shop on Blossom Street.I've been blessed with a copy of this from a publicist and have enjoyed reading it.
is just as good to read.
I'm also hoping to jump into book two from the Blossom Street series in 
Lydia Hoffman, owner of A Good Yarn, a yarn store offered knitting classes when she opened her new store on Blossom St. Lydia, who had battled cancer a couple of times, decided it was time to get back into the mainstream of life and this is the course she chose.Jacqueline Donovan, her first customer, seems to be a bit estranged from her husband although they do live together.
