https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854310.The_Crimson_Circle
They say in the 20's and 30's, one in every four books read in England was a Wallace novel.
These events will change the future in London.A secret criminal syndicate called the Crimson Circle - led by one person, known also as the Crimson Circle, with hundreds of members, all unknown to each other will terrorize London by blackmailing and murdering prominent citizens.Inspector Parr - the head of the case for the Scotland Yard.
He is helping Inspector Parr with the Crimson Circle Case.Thalia Drummond - a beautiful, yet sassy secretary to the neighbor of a Crimson Circle murder victim is seen leaving the crime scene.
A rather exciting classic murder mystery, I'll recommend it to any reader inclined to such...
I am reading books of this kind as research, to discover little social details (though this is set post-WW1, there are many points in common with Holmes' world), and to get a feel for the changes in language between then and now.
This is one of the best Edgar Wallace stories I've read so far (and the man was a master of his craft).
The story is hardly realistic in its depiction of police methods as I understand them to have been in that period (the 1920s), but at the same time, we are entering a fantasy world of master criminals and super-detectives, so it doesn't really matter.Highly recommended.
Quite typical of Edgar Wallace but definitely one his better works. I used to read a lot of him when I was a teenager and this bought back quite a few memories. More thriller than detective story but none the worse for that. It wasn't difficult to spot who was the villain but there was an interesting twist at the end. Inspector Parr is a very engaging character: I wonder if he is featured in any other stories.Good stuff in a schoolboyish way. I enjoyed it!
It was a servicable mystery but I figured out who The Crimson Circle was about 2/3 in & also deduced most of the other twist as well.
Generally I am not good at solving mysteries before the detective, so I view my ability to solve this one as a sign that it wasn't that difficult.
I enjoyed the characters & again I found Wallace's work to be surprisingly undated (well, undated in the sense it could have been written in the 1950's instead of the 1910's but not in 2010).I found "The Clue of the Twisted Candle" to be overall a better mystery, so if this is your first taste of Wallace I would recommend trying that before giving up on him.
But James Beardmore ignores the warnings and the demands for £100,000 and calls upon Scotland Yard's methodical Inspector Parr to track down the evil mastermind behind the Crimson Circle.
Parr, in turn, requests the help of Derrick Yale, an amateur detective with incredible powers of observation and perception.Unfortunately, this duo is unable to prevent Beardmore from becoming another victim after he ignores his final warning.
When Beardmore's neighbor and rival Harvey Froyant receives a demand for money as well, Parr is determined that this will be the last demand the Crimson Circle will make.
Whatever, Wallace is always supremely entertaining, and invariably results in a Good Read.
In this case, a mysterious entity (person?) known as the Crimson Circle is about the business of extorting money from rich folks.
Unless the money shows up where and when dictated, said folks will be murdered.
It seems that the head of the Crimson Circle has a host of henchmen (henchpeople?) to assist him, but none of them really knows another, nor do they know who is giving out the orders.
Anyway, we have Jack Beardmore, whose father was one of the murdered.
A good read [should be given ***+].

Giallo molto intrigante. Situazioni apparentemente inspiegabili e 'inutili' alla fine si rivelano indizi decisivi. Sarebbe bastato che stessi più attenta a "quella certa incongruenza" che avevo individuato e mi suonava strana, ma che poi ho trascurato, e avrei indovinato il colpevole!
Ai että! Kyllä oli hyvä jännäri. Paljon huikeita käänteitä juonessa, mutta silti yhtä linjaa pitkin kuljettiin kohti loppuratkaisua. Wallace antaa lukijalle muutaman niin selkeän vaihtoehdon, että oikean syyllisen tietäminen vaatii kyllä arvailuja ennen kuin homma on paketissa.
Sono rimasta molto colpita dalla scorrevolezza della narrazione, non avrei mai detto che mi sarei bevuta i capitoli di un romanzo scritto nel '22 con questa facilità!
Một tổ chức tội phạm tên ''vòng tròn đỏ'' đe dọa tính mạng những người giàu có, yêu cầu họ phải nộp tiền chuộc.
Những người không nhượng bộ đều phải đổi bằng tính mạng.
Nhưng vụ án lại thêm rắc rối với sự xuất hiện của cô nàng Thalia Drummond bí ẩn...Edgar Wallace có phong cách viết truyện rất dễ đọc và gay cấn.
Nhưng cũng có mấy chỗ hơi ảo và vô lý về độ bá của ''vòng tròn đỏ'' cũng như sự bất lực của cảnh sát trong việc kiểm soát cô nàng Thalia.
The mysterious Crimson Circle is a high-level protection society: pay them, or you die. Every wealthy man goes in fear of them if he's smart, and dies if he isn't. The Circle has many minions, including the mysterious and beautiful Thalia Drummond, and many wealthy and high-powered potential victims, and Inspector Parr and private investigator Derrick Yale had better figure out the Crimson Circle's identity before it's too late!This is lots of fun, with romance, thrills (of the 1920s variety), and a somewhat surprising ending.
I happened across this book during a used book sale, and noticed a very musty old leather bound book. This was it. I read through it and found it was a really well written, and exciting mystery. There's a bit of romance, but not so much that it becomes stuffy. You can honestly, barely notice it. The murder mystery was really fun, and I've enjoyed reading it a few times.
الانجليز بارعون في كتابة القصص البوليسية حقيقة مؤكدة لا تقبل الشكفي هذه الرواية وبرغم سوء الترجمةالتي قد تجعل الملل يتسرب إلي النفس إلا أن نهاية هذه الرواية تغفر الكثير من الأشياء كل ما أستطيع أن اقوله إنها خدعة بارعة من إدجار والاس وكل شئ يعتمد عليك في أن تنخدع أو تحل الخدعة و لا تقلق فيمكن الوصول لإجابة مبكر
Red herringsWhat a complicated and devious route the author works through on his way to the end revelations .one almost us tempted to re-read a few back chapters to see if the end us justified by the earlier events if the plot .
Perhaps Wallace's most famous mystery novel, a crimson circle became Wallace's trademark being on the cover of his subsequent books.With any mystery novel it's important not to give anything away so I'll just say lots of murder, blackmail and escaped convicts, all in all Wallace at his best.
Finale sorprendente ed inaspettato. Peccato che il resto del libro sia a tratti noiosi.
Not one of Wallace's better books but still thoroughly enjoyable with a good (although forced) twist at the end.
A.L. Burt, 1922
This was a fun read. Lots of twists and turns. I loved the characters and the roles they played. It kept me guessing the whole time.
Pretty good. I wasn't sure until the last few pages "who dun it." Generally likable characters and a plot you can follow.
