https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/803454.The_King_s_Fifth
That show was loosely -- and I mean very loosely -- based on this Scott O'Dell title, which (supported by the fact that I'd also read a dozen or so Scott O'Dell books in grade school) was my primary incentive for picking up The King's Fifth.For the record, the book and the television program have nearly nothing in common apart from character names and setting.
That said, The King's Fifth is a very solid piece of historical fiction -- far more historically sound than its Saturday-morning counterpart, in keeping with the rest of O'Dell's works -- and it's a great young-adult read that brings the period of European exploration in South America to life.
בילדותי ראיתי את סדרת האנימציה, כולנו היינו מכורים אליה, וכשראיתי את הספר בספריה כמובן שהייתי חייבת לקחת אותו...קודם כל קרא אותו בן ה11 שלי, שאמר שהסיפור יפה אבל שהוא לא אהב את הסגנון ואת צורת הכתיבה.
אני לא זוכרת כלום מסדרת האנימציה, אז אני לא יודעת להשוות האם יש דמיון או לא (מהביקורות שקראתי, הבנתי שאין ממש דמיון).היה מעניין לקרוא את הסיפור מבחינה היסטורית - כיבוש/גילוי אמריקה ע'"י הספרדים, והבהלה שלהם לזהב.
היא פגעה בהנאה שלי מהספר, ולמרות שהסיפור היה כאמור מעניין ומלא תובנות, ממש רציתי לסיים את הספר ולגמור עם זה...
still, even Esteban struggles to stay true to his beliefs in the face of the ever-present lure of gold.Zia is almost a side character, an attempt to include one native to show some of the restrictions placed on them by the Spanish.What really cracked me up is that one of the scenes they DID get from the book involves the native ceremony where they paint their cacique with gold dust and wash him off in the lake.
Between these two narratives-that of the trial and that of the expedition-the reader learns of how Estaban becomes involved with the search for treasure, at first playing a relatively minor role as mapmaker of explored lands and eventually coming to understand the destructive power of greed in himself and others.
Rather than lectures on the evils of gold, I was instead treated to subtle actions and behaviors that indicated a change in the characters attitudes, most notable the scene in which, upon discovering a complete nugget of gold rather than dust, Estaban hides his discovery from the rest of the crew, intending to keep it for himself.
Pre-reading for Emma next school year. Engaging story.
I think it being in the 1600s is great because you learn a lot about history.Summary In the beginning of the book the guy Sandolev is in jail.
The capatain knows there is going to be a mutiny so he asks Mendolev to search for cornandos army.
So Mendolev and Sandalev leave for the land.
Cornandos army goes of to find gold with Mendolev.
Mendolev goes and finds gold miles away from where cornando is.
Then sandolev is sentenced to jail for not giving the king his fifth of gold and goes to jail for three years.
This book is written about the time of western exploration in the areas of modern day California.
This book shows us an decent side of humanity in Esteban and the greedy, insatiable side in Captain Mendoza.
I like to think of this book as an experience where you can almost feel the emotions going through the characters, and you can't help but love young Esteban for his bravery.
This is a great book and should be in the classroom to show a different perspective on exploration.
I loved Island of the Blue Dolphins as a kid, so I was excited to read another Scott O'Dell book aloud to my kids. Unfortunately, this one fell flat for us. The writing is wonderful, as always, but the story didn't engage us and we were bored the whole way through.
Great adventure set in historical "New Spain" (i.e. current western United States) in the mid 1500s!
This book is narrated by Esteban, a young mapmaker seduced by Mendoza to join a gold-seeking company in hopes of becoming famous by mapping out the New World.
As time goes on, the gold itself seduces Esteban, laying out some interesting ethical dilemmas and posing questions that would be great for discussion.
The story is told in two timeframes--first, from a prison cell, and second, detailing their adventures seeking gold.
It all really makes you think.Recommended as part of history units and for readers who enjoy adventure and history!
I got this book, searching for a way to improve my English, and caught by the historical context in which the story is set.
It seemed to me very promising, and at the end of my reading, I can say that I have not been disappointed in any way.
I had followed, younger, the animated series created after this book, The Mysterious Cities of Gold, and I expected to recognize the main characters, Esteban and Zia. The book, even though very different regarding the plot and the characters 's thoughts, which are somehow much deeper and darker, give us if I may say, our fair "fifth" of adventure, thrilling, and wild landscapes amazingly described by an outstanding author.
The main character is Esteban, who is also a map maker.
He wants to get famous for his map making skills, instead of focusing on treasure.
He did not want to focus the primary part of his life on treasure, as it would be more dangerous and we wanted to be looked at greatly for his map skills instead of being a thief.
By the end of the book, Esteban starting gathering this treasure and loving it.
He leaves because of Esteban's greediness towards him and from the treasure that he has acquired.
Esteban is a wanderer.
Esteban the map maker tells of his past quest for map making and gold while he is imprisoned.
Esteban seems to be an intelligent character, but quite passive.
I think many people could judge O'Dell harshly for not making his main character act, but I found it believable.
So often our favorite heroes are acting and standing up for themselves, but here is a 15-17 year old (the story takes pace over 2 years), who starts out very meek.Looking up the author afterward, I found that O'Dell loved historical fiction, especially set in the Americas in the time of the conquistadors.
This is the second book I have read by him and I didn’t care for either of them.
The parts of The King’s Fifth that describe the courtroom and the trial are quite interesting, but everything else, which is most of the book, is rather boring.
I kind of wanted the conquistadors to die right then so the book would be over.
I liked the premise and how the book went back and forth between what happened finding the gold and what happened in the courtroom.
If there is nothing else available, this book is good enough, but I wouldn’t go out of my way to read it.
This book is very informative about the ‘New World’ in Old Spain.
The book is intriguing and informative about the tools and other things they used.
The book seems very correct about the disease of gold on the Spanish.
It also shows the relationship between the Spanish and the Natives of the land.
The book is based in Mexico in the 1540’s and gives us a look into the world of prison and the way of travel and life.
The Spanish at times are cruel to the Natives, treating them like slaves.
The book is well written and uses easy to understand language and words.
Good Book.
While in jail facing trail for stealing from the King and murdering his commander, a young Spanish mapmaker keeps a journal of his adventures in Coronado's army and his evolution from a boy wanting to explore for the sake of exploration to a young man becoming obsessed with the gold that they find.I went into this one expecting to love it as much as I loved O'Dell's Island of the Blue Dolphins. I didn't. It's still a fair read, but for some reason it didn't pull me in as I wanted it to.
My daughter read this for a class, and I don't think she appreciated it as much as I do. She should read it again when she is older perhaps. Maybe 4 1/2 stars? I enjoyed recognizing the description of some of the fauna and terrain and imagining crossing the deserts and mountains as they were then.
I would even give this a 3.5 Very interesting history of the conquistadors from an teen mapmakers perspective. I think this is a bit advanced/complex (there were quite a few words I had to look up and that doesn't include the Spanish ones) for a children's book but still a good book nonetheless.
This is a beautifully written book. And the messages here are powerful. But, well, I was just kinda bored. No idea why, really, but I couldn't get into it. Go figure! We're reading this as part of our history curriculum. Good book, but not my cup of tea.
I can't believe I was never made to read this book! Great 4th grade book: Spanish explorers, map making, finding GOLD, defending/telling the truth in spite of risks.... and well written with a lot of action. I listened - the narration was great!
The setting and historical subjects are well rendered. The characters are a little shallow and the motivations ascribed to them a bit simplistic though plausible. I enjoyed it and would give it a 3.49 if I could.
Always a favorite. I have read it so many times...one of his best works. I love this book.
Probably one of my favorite Scott O'Dell books to date (sometimes I don't quite like him). Not sure what it was. The characters and atmosphere were on though.
Not my favorite O’Dell book, but it did pick up toward the end.
Another fail for us. 4 chapters in and not one of us cared anymore. Historical fiction shouldn't be so incredibly hard to read and understand.
Did really enjoy (view spoiler)[- save the ending. (hide spoiler)] Highly recommended!
I loved it!!!! Top 5! LOVED IT! I felt like Esteban so much. I just LOVED this book.
It was as if all the stories of gold that men had told me had suddenly come alive inside me." And O'Dell treats the love between Esteban and the party's Indian girl guide Zia with great restraint and charm: "Her eyes are the color of obsidian stone, so large that I see nothing else." Perhaps the novel takes a little too much time to get Esteban on his way to Cibola, but people interested in well-written, well-researched accounts of the exploration and exploitation of the "New World" infused with plenty of universal human heart--especially regarding the fever sickness of gold greed--should read The King's Fifth, though they should also be warned that it, like O'Dell's classic The Island of the Blue Dolphins (1960) is not a cheery tale.
אהבתי את הסיפור אבל את סגנון הכתיבה לא כל כך
This one is intense, but so well written. It was not at all easy, but certainly worth the work. I've never read a book on the topic of the Spanish explorers searching for gold.
Brilliant story-telling. I thought it would be a dry story--I'm not the biggest fan of survival stories or westerns nor am I terribly fascinated by this time period--but there was not a boring moment. No long descriptive passages, no essays, no preaching, no fluff or filler. Just pure, lean story driven by excellent characters. The climax is not monumental and is almost surprising in it's quietness and logic. I think you'll feel, at the end, that all is right.This book is appropriate for keen third-graders and up.
