https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40611069-slade-house
i have only read two other david mitchell books, but as a hardcore fan of both jonathan carroll and donald harington, i know that reading-shimmer that occurs when you encounter a character you did not expect to see, and how while their appearance might not impact the story in any crucial way, it's gratifying - a little nod to the fans who have been paying attention.
won't know until i finally read that book everybody's talking about…come to my blog!
Slade House started as an experimental short story called “The Right Sort”, picking up on the psychsoterical section of The Bone Clocks, and published in tweets (https://twitter.com/SceptreBooks/time...).
It took on a life of its own, and Mitchell expanded it into four more sections, creating Slade House.Like many of his novels, this is a collection of connected short stories, with predacity as the underlying theme, here indicated by the Fox and Hounds (a chase game, a pub, a weapon, but most importantly, an analogy).
He gets away with it because he is just so extravagantly readable, and Slade House is no different – a hugely enjoyable ghost story which (I infer) seems to build on various conventions established in The Bone Clocks, which I haven't yet read.The first story here is set in 1979, and subsequent chapters advance in nine-year intervals until we reach October 2015 – all of them first-person narratives which follow the same essential pattern and which involve the same creepy house in a run-down corner of London.
The Right Sort 1979 (2.5 Stars)**********************Our first Guest in this book is Nathan Bishop, a sweet smart yet autistic, 13 years old..and his mother, invited to the Slade House for a big break for the musician mother.I really loved Nathan, and how the author got into his mind, writing a story narrating by autistic was brilliant, and Nathan was really smart, and sweet.It was a bit hard for me to follow at first, I had to re-read many lines to get it.-add to that the very hard classical language for me-And when finally I used to his narrating...the story ends..weird starting yet full of mysteries to come..
(Thanks again, Stephen King, for permanently searing my brain with Pet Sematary.)Final review, first posted at www.fantasyliterature.com:The enigmatic Slade House mysteriously appears every nine years for a day, like a sinister Brigadoon, accessible only to certain people.
Readers of The Bone Clocks and other Mitchell novels will be rewarded with recurring characters, concepts and themes, such as Dr. Iris Marinus and the Horologists.Even without that background knowledge, however, there’s enough explanation in Slade House that a reader new to this universe isn’t left feeling stranded.
But David Mitchell’s gift with prose puts Slade House a clear cut above most horror novels.
I picked up Slade House with the idea of reading something creepy and perhaps slightly unusual before Halloween.
So, I’ll share just a few thoughts on this one.Slade House, located in Slade Alley, is definitely the stuff of freaky dreams and Mitchell masterfully sketches a place that I would shrink from passing by even in the light of day.
I’m not a big fan of the supernatural and this was a bit of a mixed bag for me - a fun way to pass a couple of cold, rainy days, but not anything mind-blowing.
“To follow [the] trail of breadcrumbs you have to blindfold your own sanity…” Wow, what a ride! David Mitchell’s Slade House came running round the bend, no pun intended (well, maybe just a little for those who have read it), at full steam ahead with all of the mechanical makings and suspenseful trappings of a haunting psychological thrill ride. It had a rhythmic flow that you could fall into, but beware. That trap has thorns. And fangs.“…but as I watch, the running-boy shape gets fuzzier and be
David Mitchell’s Slade House came running round the bend, no pun intended (well, maybe just a little for those who have read it), at full steam ahead with all of the mechanical makings and suspenseful trappings of a haunting psychological thrill ride.
The format worked well for this one, using a series of vignettes, all nine years apart, to weave together the haunting mystery of Slade House and the experiences of those who dared to enter those walls—all linked soul-to-soul if not hand-in-hand.
Magically (and creepily) delicious. Loved every minute of this one, just wish I has read it closer to Halloween. Not overtly scary, yet what is accomplished in this short novel did send a few shivers my way. So many lines can be taken in more than one way, little humorous tidbits scattered here and there. A haunted house but so much more, original and brilliant in its own way. Actually this will make a good book for re-reading, which is just what I will do.ARC from publisher.
The “ghosts” in this paranormal horror / fantasy have some added occult significance provided by Mitchell, with a backstory that gets slowly delivered to the reader as the years and opportunities to haunt roll by.I have yet to read The Bone Clocks, but apparently this story follows that theme (and makes me want to read Mitchell’s 2014 publication).
I enjoyed the way this story started in the first chapter with 13 year old Nathan.
Then jumping ahead...Nathan's mother, Rita, find the house off Slade Alley.
It gets spooky - when after October 1979 the mother and son were never seen again.
Nine years later detective Gordon Edmonds enters the same way...
Every Nine years there is another disappearance last Saturday in October.
This one-sitting read gets scary-creepy-and if you never believed in ghosts before...
you might after you read "The Slade House".
Thank You Random House, Netgalley, and David Mitchell for the opportunity to read this spine-tingling book.
As you may not have read “The Bone Clocks” (and do not have to read that first), I won’t say what dangers to your soul or body you may be facing though characters.
I can also say that Mitchell follows his frequent pattern of using narrative segments that skip through time.
Instead his jazz of variation lies with the characters made to fit an apparently common form.Mitchell was such a genre chameleon in his fabulous “Cloud Atlas” that it made me dizzy.
4.5 stars...I'd scream if I could but I can't my chest's full of molten panic it's choking me choking it's wolves it's winter it's bones it's cartilage skin liver lungs it's Hunger it's Hunger it's Hunger and Run!A delightful romp into the creepy, ghostly, occult world of David Mitchell.Slade House, a ghostly entity/vision/trap which is manned by malicious, parasitic twins, is open one day every nine years, to a special "guest" who is lured into this hologram world, constructed in order to attract and entice until the twin spiders have their juicy prey caught in their web.
At other points, especially in chapter 3, it was tough knowing what was real and what wasn’t.
I suppose a good number of readers would like this, but I found it confusing and led me to reread paragraphs—again interfering with the flow.At one point, I actually stopped to look up other books by Mr. Mitchell and found very mixed reviews.
I never like to go into plot points in my reviews so those that like approaching books cold can still do so; therefore, no details from me.
Entertaining if a bit predictable.
Basically a shorter version of The Bone Clocks starring the ubiquitous Dr Marinus and featuring various other characters from other Mitchell novels.
Essentially this is light entertainment rather than literature.
This, rather like the Bone Clocks, felt like he was going through the motions, having fun but not challenging himself.
I’ve also heard there’s going to be a sequel to A Thousand Autumns, a serious book with an undertow of whimsy; you sense the sequel will be a whimsical book with an undertow of seriousness.
Personally I’ve now had quite enough of the whimsy of Dr Marinus and the Horologists.
Tweet! Tweet!"Slade House" grew out of David Mitchell's Oulipean project in which he wrote a short story,  "The Right Sort",  strictly in compliance with Twitter conventions that restrict each tweet to 140 characters (approximately 20 words per tweet).The restraints are so commonplace in a non-literary context that it's easy to overlook just how much this exercise constituted a work within the post-modern tradition.Superficially, it seems that the story grew, tweet by tweet, without any overarch
If you're curious about the fantasy world that Mitchell is constructing, then this is a way to dip your toes into it, without making the investment of time that the longer "The Bone Clocks" would require (even though both books are very easy to read).If you've already read "The Bone Clocks" and didn't like the fantasy elements, then I'm tempted to recommend that you avoid "Slade House".David Mitchell in David Bowie make-up at the Brisbane Writers' Festival, May 20, 2015Wholly Unapologetic SubmersionMitchell is aware that many readers don't relate to the genre aspects of his über-verse.This novel, as the next in the sequence, might have been an opportunity to attract or placate such readers.
Drug pushers do it all the time, Mr. Mitchell.
You dangled your drug under the nose of some of the most addictive personalities in the universe, the so-called "readership", and now we're hooked.He's an evil man.Other than my entirely justified grievance, I was rather thrilled while reading to see so many wonderful similarities in the narrative to a certain Tim Powers.
Of course, now I have to read a lot more of BOTH of these authors, but that's okay because I'm not dead yet.
*sigh*This was one hell of a good horror/SF, people.
I dragged this one out so I could finish it on Halloween. This was creepy but not too much. I liked it. Every nine years on the last Saturday of October, that black door to the gardens of Slade House opens to another victim.....perfect for Halloween :)
I received an Advance Reader copy of this book from NetGalley and Random House Publishing.
Thanks to NetGalley and Random House.
A great follow-up to "The Bone Clocks" and much easier to follow."Slade House" consists of 5 intertwined stories, starting in 1979.
The mysterious Slade House is a mansion hidden behind a small iron door in Slade Alley and it only appears to one chosen "guest" on one particular night every 9 years.
It's great fun watching this story unfold.
And I loved the ending, which promises more fun to come.This would be a great choice for a Halloween read.
If you liked  The Bone Clocks you have to read this one.
It's a companion novel that gives you another look at the paranormal/atemporal aspects of TBC in a more microcosmic way.
But Mitchell is a master at pacing, and, like TBC, it builds up to a wonderful and metaphysical conclusion that is so bizarre it just works.
It is a solid 4 star read for me, but by the last 50 pages or so I was so engrossed and impressed with the world Mitchell creates and expands on that I can't help giving it 5 stars.
So I highly recommend this one, but read The Bone Clocks first!
I could not put it down and read it in one totally enjoyable afternoon.
I have already read a couple of this author's better known works and enjoyed them but this one was so short yet so packed full of mystery, fantasy and a touch of horror.
Imagine a fabulous mansion which appears only once every nine years and two horrific vampire like residents who live forever by consuming human souls.
Then follow the stories of each of those souls as they are tempted in and reach their really nasty ends.A clever, almost perfect little piece of entertainment.
Trust no one........DO NOT go down the alley........DO NOT pass though the gate, and NEVER enter SLADE HOUSE for you may NEVER leave.............SUPER WEIRD and filled with the mysterious, this twisty haunted house tale makes for a great Halloween read! The unique format of the individual, but related stories combined with the various "tricks" and "treats" of the evil presence kept me guessing between what was real and what was imaginary.This is my first David Mitchell novel, but NOT my last.
You Got Me Mr. Mitchell, YOU GOT ME!!!
I thought I was smarter than you.
I thought I knew where you were going with the story.
I thought I was ahead of you and had it ALL figured out.
I really believe you saw me coming because right when I thought I had caught you, you warbled and you wobbled and got away from me.Turns out, I wasn't even on the same path as you.
I loved this book with all its twists and turns and surprises.
I even loved when I was taken completely aback.
I really believe you saw me coming because right when I thought I had caught you, you warbled and you wobbled and got away from me.Turns out, I wasn't even on the same path as you.
I loved this book with all its twists and turns and surprises.
If you take nothing else away from this literary masterpiece please remember this:DO NOT TRUST your friends who try to lure you to a haunted house:
DO NOT TRUST strangers you meet in the haunted house:
I really hope you read this book if you haven't already.
Enter if you dare!That’s more warning than victims get in David Mitchell’s devilishly fun new novel, which clawed its way to life from the ectoplasm of Twitter.
Now, just in time for Halloween, “Slade House” opens its rusty door on a ghost story that dresses up all the dusty old tropes with Mitchell’s spirit and wit.
His fans will need no enticement, but for the curious, too intimidated by “Cloud Atlas” or even last year’s “The Bone Clocks,” this little book will go down like fresh gummy worms.If you’ve found Platform 9¾ at King’s Cross Station, you’ll have no problem locating Slade House.
The owners of Slade House are.
I was lucky to snag a review copy from the publisher but would have purchased it regardless, as David Mitchell is one of my favorite authors.Slade House is the story of a hidden home, the site of a few disappearances over the years.
What I have always loved about David Mitchell is his ability to shift into different genres, different styles, different characters.
This is a wonderful scary/ghost type story, more narrow in scope than some of his more complicated novels (Cloud Atlas, The Bone Clocks) but still with variances and the connection the his grand uber novel.
I was willing to give The Bone Clocks a curate's egg (good in parts) review because it did at least have quite lengthy sections which showed some insight into reality and had echoes of his best work, but this one (like the penultimate part of The Bone Clocks) is just too obsessed with the risible fantasy nonsense about immortal souls and psychic superpowers.
Perhaps Mitchell finds the real world too depressing to write about in straighter ways, but I just can't swallow this stuff.
As I have said several times on other threads, for me Mitchell's writing works best when it is most grounded in the real world.
Fun and Haunting Jaunt into Darkness Not Having Had Prior Pleasure of Reading Mitchell Novel, Regardless of Whether this was Drop Off for David M. If you, dear contemplating reader, haven't read a David Mitchell novel, you are in for a spectacular, albeit short, treat, so go ahead, DO IT....Step into the appealing aperture that's Slade House, only open a day or two every 9 years. Rest assured: what happens in Slade House, stays in Slade House. I pleasured in reading David Mitchell's short novel,
If you, dear contemplating reader, haven't read a David Mitchell novel, you are in for a spectacular, albeit short, treat, so go ahead, DO IT....Step into the appealing aperture that's Slade House, only open a day or two every 9 years.
I pleasured in reading David Mitchell's short novel, that is as witty as it is chilling, about a house of horrors, the cerebral and vampiric twins in residence, and the never-ending nature of the battle between the forces of evil and good.If you're hesitating here, based on what I hear is the complex structure of some of Mitchell's prior novels, don't.
For me, I felt if you are going to write a book about soul suckers, you need to go all out and I was able to overlook or forgive some of those unbelievable scenes.
I absolutely loved that about this book and really looked forward to where the author was going to take me in the next chapter.
But I'm not sure all of Mitchell's work is for me...I had became so enthralled with what I was reading that I did some research on the author and his past works.
So love him or hate him, if you haven't read something of his yet- take a chance and see which side of the fence you fall.
Review originally published at Learn This Phrase.David Mitchell's  The Bone Clocks  may have been a disappointment for numerous reasons, a three-star book that really, if I was being completely honest, should have been two (as I've occasionally done, I gave it extra credit, so to speak, because of my affection for the author's other work), but that didn't stop me from being excited about Slade House. A (sort of) ghost story centred on one mysterious house was always going to be irresistible to m
That prevents the repeating doomed scenario on which the plot hinges from making the whole thing too depressing, even though really, there's quite a lot of tragedy in this book, something that's particularly keenly felt because the characters are so well defined.Much shorter and tighter than The Bone Clocks, Slade House lacks the flabbiness of its predecessor; but towards the end, its links with the world of Bone Clocks become clearer, its fantasy element ramps up, and much of one chapter is devoted to belatedly explaining the Grayers' backstory.
It’s just that...the world might be falling apart (and likely IS FALLING APART!!!1) and here I am reading about a couple of soul-suckers luring prey into their orisons and lacunas, whatever those are?
This is my world and my country and my goddam life, and it matters to me so therefore it affects me.
And somehow I found the opportunity to distract myself just enough to read this tiny book and you know what?
Thus, I present to you a scientific list of pros and cons.PRO: Made a meeting in early 2015 more fun than I expectedCON: Andreas no longer invites me to meetings :( PRO: The short stories tie together the Slade House theme in an authentically creepy way.CON: They're short stories, and Mitchell has to info dump pretty heavily in one of the later stories to create a consistent storyline.PRO: There are fun snippets in here for fans of The Bone Clocks (Crispin Hershey in translation!), but you could in theory read this book without having read any other David Mitchell works.CON: This relies too heavily on the (confusing) mythology and wording created in The Bone Clocks, and it's even clunkier when it isn't fully explained.
