https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/906541.Bedtime_for_Frances
We love the Frances series by Russell Hoban. Our favorite is probably A Bargain for Frances, but we find that all of them speak to our kids. Frances' little songs and her experiences are so typical and so humorous that we can read them over and over.
WTF was this? Ok, I can get on board with a story that has a kid that comes up with a million reasons not to go asleep (I have one of my own like that), I don't love this premise, but fine. But what's up with the casual threat of spanking as the final solution? My kid didn't even understand what it was and I didn't care to explain. "No dessert" and "no TV" I think is more effective than a threat of violence. Hard pass on all the books by this author.
On the surface the story and the illustrations are cute, but the underlying philosophy isn't a match for little ones I care for.
I have two problems with the story.
First, I would not want my child to ever act in any way like Frances does in this story.
I generally pick stories that I want my child to emulate or learn from.
I do not want my child to learn to use their imagination to be scared.
There are plenty of things to be scared of without making them up or reading them a story that models things they might never have thought to be afraid of before- Spiders flowing from a crack!
Cute story, bad messeges.
This children's author was way ahead of his time. . . he managed to write a story about our daughter, almost 50 years before she was born. . .
Full review to come...Another one from childhood... I liked Frances. I really did. Though I was never too sure if Frances was a he or a she.Maybe it was the ambiguity that I liked. But I remember reading the books over and over, and one time Frances would be a he, and another time she, and it gave the stories different tones I thought.
I didn’t really get the point of this book. Basically Frances comes up with all sorts of reasons why she can’t go to sleep and then eventually decides that her job is to go to sleep so she can be well rested for school the next day.

So Frances doesn't want to go to bed, and tries every trick in the book to get out of bed.
Then she gets scared by a giant, then she gets scared by the idea of a bug coming through a crack in the ceiling, then she gets scared by a moth tapping on the window.
You know the only thing more scary than all this?
The prospect of getting a spanking from her parents.
So she goes to sleep and sleeps til morning.
(What's on the ceiling, Mommy?
Is the window closed, Mommy?) Didn't I like this book back when I was a kid?
I did like the unusual way the parents answered Frances' questions when she didn't want to go to bed.
For instance, when she asked about the Giant in her room that was going to eat her, instead of a normal parent response such as "There are no such thing as giants, go back to bed", the father responded with "How do you know the giant wants to eat you?
Did you ask him?" A different and unusual approach to the dilemma of getting a child to sleep, it was a fun diversion from our morning routine.
I love all the Frances books. So clever and honest.
However, re-reading this book in 2011, I cannot say that I would recommend it to children today (unless a couple of changes were made to the story).The first "problem" I ran into was that Frances' father smokes a pipe.
Dad's pipe (and the smoking paraphernalia of any other characters) needs to disappear in order for me to consider recommending this book today.The second "problem" is that there is a reference to spanking in the story if Frances doesn't ultimately comply with her parents' orders to go to sleep.
The illustrations in this book are priceless. There is one in particular, on page 25, that is worth the price of the book . It depicts Frances (a baby badger) waking up her father in the wee hours of the evening. The look on her fathers face could not have been drawn any better. This is a wonderful 'goodnight book' for your kids. The back cover states "The soft humorous pictures of these lovable animals are delightful." -- I completely agree.
Along with "Bread and Jam for Frances" these were my oldest books.
The threat of the spanking I don't see as abusive, maybe because I have a different understanding about it than many modern readers today.
I remember being spanked once in my entire life.
I knew I was going to get a spanking all the way home, and I know I was terrified of it.
The thing is I don't remember feeling it at all.
I DO remember feeling my father's disappointment in me.
She knows a spanking doesn't hurt, and likely hasn't experienced many in her life.
I adored this book when I was little. I just loved it!
Such a perfect, hilarious, sweet encapsulation of what bedtime with small children is like. I think Will and I enjoy it even more than Beatrice does. ;)
It's become perhaps my favorite book targeted at young children.My two girls love Frances, and I can't blame them.
She's a creative, intelligent, imaginative, musical, sweet little badger whose parents are absolutely amazing role-models.
You can't help but believing that there was or is a real 'Frances' out there, and if there wasn't then Hoban's creation is a real marvel of imagination and insight comparable to the best of the best fiction.'Bedtime for Frances' deals with the all too familiar issue of trying to get a creative, intelligent, imaginative, inquisitive and largely sweet little girl to stay in their bed.
I always liked the drawings, with the clear lines, and contrasting colors.What I liked about this story was that Francis' parents encouraged her to not be afraid, but they also didn't solve her problems for her.
When she says no, then they reply, "Then it must be a friendly bear." I like that they encouraged her to not be afraid in this fashion rather than the usual, "Oh mommy looked in the closet, it's not there." Because as we all know, once mommy leaves the monster is back in the closet.Parents will have to read at their discretion, as this book does mention spanking.
Frances thinks of everything possible to put off going to bed but eventually tires herself out and goes to sleep anyway.Purposes:Read aloud to kindergarten and first grade students-enrichment and enjoyment of the students because of the story and the pictures.
The pictures tell the story along with the words-Students are able to relate to Frances and can find similarities between each other-possible expansion of vocabularyCurriculum: read aloud-discussion of bedtime routines and the importance of going to bed-narrative (tells about a normal night at Frances house)-introduction on comparing a story to the students lives and also showing that a lot of people have similar day to day routines.
"Frances said, 'There is a giant in my room.
May I watch television?''No,' said Mother.'No,' said Father.Frances said, 'The giant wants to get me.May I have some cake?'" I love Frances and am so glad I recently rediscovered these books!
This is the typical nighttime story of a child who doesn't want to go to sleep just yet.
Frances keeps finding things to be scared of (like a giant), things she forgot (like brushing her teeth), and various other excuses for why she can't go to bed yet.
I think Frances is hilarious and I love the dialogue in these books.
This story is one in a collection of kids' books in one big volume, The 20th Century Children's Book Treasury: Celebrated Picture Books and Stories to Read Aloud, which is really a fantastic collection of old and new children's literature.
Anyway, this particular story I found kind of annoying, maybe because I was already a mom when I first read it.
Assuming I hadn't first fallen asleep from boredom while reading this book to them.
I laughed SO HARD!
This could have very easily been titled "Bedtime for Kinley".
Frances' thought process and behavioral tactics were so perfectly patterned after my Kinley that it was frightening.
Every bit of it was freakishly accurate, even Mommy and Daddy totally getting busted with "tea and cake" after putting the kids down and then feeling too guilty not to share; it was just too much, I'm still laughing!
When Frances stood quietly by Daddy's side of the bed, staring at him until he startled awake, I couldn't breathe and our whole family was actually weeping with laughter!
This is a great story to read to children at bedtime. It validates their fears, yet shows them that there's nothing in the corner after all. It does mention spanking, which could be a turn off to parents, but she doesn't actually get one, and her parents are quite patient with her repeated forays out of her bed. As long as children aren't too susceptible to suggestions of scary things, this book is a fun way to settle down at bedtime. I read this one when I was very young, but I liked Bread and Jam for Frances much better.
Frances tries every trick in the book to stay up late; then, when she finally goes to bed, all the things that frighten children in the night keep her from falling asleep. Pitch-perfect - both Frances's reactions to the scary things, and her parents' soothing but firm responses. It's easy to see why this has been a childhood favorite for over 50 years. Adorably illustrated, too. A School Library Journal top 100 picture book.
This is such a wonderful, wonderful book! I got to read it out loud to someone who had never met Frances before. At bedtime. The text is brilliant, the illustrations delightful. And there are threatened spankings, which one can hardly find in a book for small people any more. I love Frances' parents with all my heart.Everyone should have a copy of this on hand, just in case.
All the Frances books are my favorite, but this one is especially great, as Frances tries and tries to get out of going to bed. I love the little songs she makes up and her overactive immagination. Now that I have my own children, it has even more meaing as they try the same plaoys that she tried. Very sweet and fun classic.
Zero stars. Was cute until daddy threatened a spanking!!!!! And then poor Frances hears a moth thwacking against a window, remembers that he will get spanked if he doesn't go to bed, and falls a sleep! What a sick message. Boo to spanking, threats, coercion, and not treating children like human beings.
Charming charming childrens' picture book! It features the immortal line "U is for underwear, down in the dryer." I remembered this book from childhood's happy hours. Or rather, I remembered that line but could not remember the title. An appeal to my sister Mary Alice, who also remembered this book, led me back to it!
Read this one because it was mentioned as an example of how culture and medias induces men into becoming abusers in the book "why does he do that". Yes, the dad said his daughter would get a spanking if she didn't stay in bed. I don't think that's a big deal, but then again i might have been conditioned to think that there's nothing wrong... Who knows?
Great, realistic story about the typical bedtime rituals of children (i.e. how to avoid actually going to sleep). Covers a great variety of scenarios with humor and a childlike perspective.
Frances can't go to bed. She needs a drink. She needs a kiss. There's a tiger in her room. There's a giant. She forgot to brush her teeth.Oh, a spanking? Maybe she's tired after all.
