https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25323108-murder-in-piccadilly
Bobbie Cheldon has fallen in love with someone his snobbish Uncle Massy considers completely unsuitable.
A dislikeable corpse and an incredibly naïve and innocent prime suspect - represented by Bobbie - not to speak of a group of singularly dislikeable characters from the seedy side of London nightclub life in the 1930s make this an interesting and entertaining read.I liked the humour in this book and I thought the author did an excellent job of portraying Bobbie as an innocent abroad.
A little bit wordy...but a quintessential murder mystery from the early 20th century. Nice plot and great London settings. I liked it, but no more.
I just can't resist a crime novel with a London setting and all the action in this one takes place in the heart of the West End, as the title suggests.The novel is an interesting construction because no murder takes place until halfway through the book but while we are led to realise who is probably going to be murdered, there is plenty of tension building while the story develops.The plot revolves around Bobbie Cheldon who falls in love with a dancing girl, Nancy Curzon, from the idiosyncratically named 'Frozen Fang' nightclub.
Got to admit I struggled with this. I didn't really like the characters or care and it took too long for the scene to be set. However, if you like 1920''s/30's crime it might tick a reading box.
Did not like it. I am still wondering why the author ever thought this story had to be written down. Almost nothing happens in the book and there is no suspense at all. Can probably be summarised in half a page. Come to think of it, that is exactly what the blurb on the back of the book did: there is little else to tell about the story than what's given away there. Boring characters, very predictable plot (if you want to call it that). Avoid like the plague.
It took me ages to get into this book, with over half the book devoted to ‘scene setting’ before the murder.
Long before this, we knew who was going to be murdered and why!There is, however, a nice twist at the end.The person who is due to benefit by the murder, Bobbie Cheldon, is not a likeable character; he is a spoilt and easily led.
I didn’t feel an ounce of sympathy for him at the final outcome!Murder in Piccadilly is very much a book of its time; in many places it is wordy and slow.
Make sure that you know what an "ex-pugilist" is before you start - it turns up with monotonous regularity!!
I had a good time with this, although it isn't really a whodunit (we pretty much know that even before the murder occurs). It's more of a will-whodunit-get-away-with-it. I wasn't entirely satisfied with the ending, as it lets one of the bad guys off the hook. Yet there are great characters here, and a wonderful glimpse into the seedy side of 1930s London.
When I first started this, I didn't think I'd like the dated writing style and the seemingly flat, stock characters. But after about 50 pages, every time I put it down, I kept looking forward to picking it up again. I can see this as one of those good 30s movies--I was even casting it in my mind!
He's separated from a family fortune by his uncle, Massy, who is a relatively young man at 53 years old.
Driven by his love for Nancy he starts to think how much better off his life would be if the family fortune was his.
He is encouraged to take action by some shady characters in Nancy's circle of friends, and Massy's days are numbered.
In the end Wake makes an arrest but it is a by-the-way event to close the book.The ever present British class system plays out in the background.
Reviewed for the Bibliophibian.Wow, this was just… kind of disappointing?
I mean, there are aspects of it which are fairly unique — actually characterising the skinflint uncle who must die for the heir to inherit, and giving him maybe a softer side; following the crooks and getting into their heads as well as the innocent(ish) bystanders and the police, and the victim, etc.
But in the end it just doesn’t come together: you don’t get to see the bad guys get their comeuppance, not all the mysteries are answered (if you even care by that point), and the “hero” insofar as there is one is a weak mummy’s boy who can’t take responsibility for his own actions or figure out how to take care of himself for even a moment.It’s just… meh all round.
I'm not sure if it's "I really liked it" or "I liked it". It would be unfair to say a book is not good because characters aren't nice. Indeed, they seem very human in their weakness and that atests the writer's talent. I found the characters' complexity sometimes annoying but it enriches the story. It's not a crime plot like most: instead of starting from the victim and following the detective's investigation, it follows the people who are related to the eventual victim and their machinations. The detective comes into the story when we're already involved with all its intricacies.
Became disinterested after reading first quarter of the book, taking too long for scene and character setting, persevered until the murder which happened over halfway through and gave up as we already knew who did it and wasn't interested in the characters enough to continue. Inclined not to read any more Charles Kingston.
An English friend gave me this book re-published recently as part of the British Library's series of classics from the "golden age of crime writing". It's obviously dated (originally published in 1936) and does not have the puzzle aspect of most mysteries, but I enjoyed reading it, although the victim-to-be and motives are known almost from the beginning.
good for a long airplane ride.But the English obsession with titled gentry lacking the funds to maintain their sense of entitled living, and scheming to obtain enough money gets a bit tiresome.Other than the person killed, most everyone was a scoundrel of one type or another.
More 'suspense' than 'mystery' in this classic from the 1930's. It took me awhile to adapt to the linguistic style of this book, but I ended up rather enjoying it. The pace of the 2nd half dragged a bit, but the ending redeemed it for me. Overall, fun to read.
Abandoned on page 36 of 320. Didn't want to read anymore about these dull people.
NIce window into the pop literature of the thirties.
And soon, Massy's life will end on a crowded platform of the London Underground, the killer pursued by Scotland Yard's Inspector Wake.I expected Murder in Piccadilly to be a whodunit, but it's not that type of novel.
It's not the typical whodunit and its lack of a puzzle may disappoint readers looking for that element in their Golden Age reads, instead being more of a murder-mystery and dramatic study of some unscrupulous characters in their quest for greed.
Note:The British Library is republishing many of their Classic Crime and Spy novels, with the Poisoned Pen Press responsible for the U.S. editions.
I read the following as an ARC from Netgalley, and wish to thank both publishers for bringing these works to light.Publisher: Poisoned Pen PressGenre: English mystery, cozy, mystery, British Library crime classics,3 to 3.5 stars***Title: Murder in Piccadilly by Charles Kingston (1936, 2015) 314ppAuthor: Charles Kingston (O'Mahoney) wrote 25 mystery novels between 1921 and 1945: Stolen Virtue (1921), many London settings (Poison in Kensington [read Dorothy Sayers review!] and The Highgate Mystery) to his last book Fear Followed On (1945).
Poisoned Pen Press is republishing a series of these mysteries; "Piccadilly" is the second, so far."Murder in Piccadilly" is a fun read that is as much a study of mid-1930's society as it is a "who done it".
"Bobbie" Cheldon is a 24 year old man who is waiting for his wealthy uncle to die and leave him his fortune and his estate.
As I like reading historical novels - mysteries, included - it was great fun to read "Murder in Piccadilly" and I'm giving it a 5 star review, within its own genre.
Classic crime – originally published in 1936 – set in London with a Scotland Yard Investigator on the case.Murder in Piccadilly was not the novel I was hoping for.
The first half of the novel is the set up to the murder – and we know exactly why the victim was killed, and in general who was behind the deed.
Part of the problem may have been that the novel didn’t shift focus with the murder solely to Wake and his investigation, but instead bounced between Wake and the other main characters from the first half of the novel.I really enjoyed the 1930’s London setting, and felt like the book had a lot of promise.
It is always a risk when a book that was written and set in a past time has a style that grates somewhat for the modern reader.
It is essential that the reader understands the book must be put into the context of its time in order to enjoy it.The first part of the book was tough sledding as there were really no characters for whom I could root.
I like having a book where there is at least one person for whom I can care.
It was the what lifted the book from a so-so recommendation to a definite like.
A potential inheritance makes men greedy .
and not just the potential inheritor.Bobbie Cheldon is in line for £10,000 a year when his uncle, Massy Cheldon dies, and he needs that £10,000 to marry the girl of his dreams, a dancer at the 'Frozen Fang' nightclub in London's Soho.Others, recognising an opportunity to gain a cut of the young man's fortune, are only too willing to help, none more than Nosey Ruslin, an ex-boxer, and man about Soho.
Prior to receiving the book on NetGalley for my honest review, I purchased the book in the UK as a Christmas present for fellow mystery fan.
As a reader of British mysteries, I find them to be less gritty than American stories.
But this one started out very slow and took quite some time to introduce the main characters.Books which keep me guessing are my preference.
This one kept me guessing right on through the ending.
Yes, we did find out who committed the murder and there was a little twist near the end of the book which helped make it interesting.
Extremely well done.
Highly recommended.It's always a pleasure to find a mystery novel with a new and distinct structure, good characters, and unquestionable plausibility.
Charles Kingston is not a well-known name—he is not in the 1971 extensive catalogue of Barzun and Taylor.
Crime novels are often long on the whodunit puzzle and short on character, but Murder in Piccadilly is full of well-developed characters and their personalities are essential to the plot.
It all flows smoothly and naturally—simply a delight to read.
If there are more by Charles Kingston, I certainly hope to find them soon.
Not this one: The characters are mostly unpleasant, even the police detective who solves the crime not very nice; and the conclusion--well, let's avoid spoilers here.
Spoiled Bobby Cheldon wishes his uncle would just die, leaving him the heir by entail.
When Bobby falls for gold-digging dancer Nancy Curzon, he's all the more eager to inherit.
But Bobby is too weak, and Nancy too clever, to commit a crime.
Yet Uncle Massy is stabbed in a tube station.
The reader knows who and why, and just watches the characters fall apart under the burden of guilt and fear until someone is convicted.
If you're looking for a fast-paced, clever, mind-whipping who-done-it, this isn't the one for you.
Half of the book is spent on the set-up, the next quarter is spent bumbling around a bunch of unsympathetic, idiotic characters, and the final quarter (more like, last 10 pages) is spent with the investigator cleaning up the mess into something resembling a viable conclusion.
There's a little too much reliance on convenient plot contrivances to give a pass to the sheer weakness of the character development, action and writing.
If you're a die-hard British mystery lover, then go for it; anyone else would be well to pass this one by.
Murder in Piccadilly is another of those 'lost' British crime thrillers from the 1930s re-published by the British Library.It's a good read, if a little slow.
It takes half the book to reach the murder but, after that, it picks up nicely with the arrival of the policeman in charge, Inspector Wake.Like most of those 'vintage' thrillers, it writing is simple and very readable and the location descriptions interesting and accurate.
The characters are a bit two-dimensional but overall it was an enjoyable enough readDavid Lowther.
Author of The Blue Pencil, Two Families at War and Liberating Belsen, all published by Sacristy Press.
I just love that the Poisoned Pen Press is reprinting a series of British mysteries from the golden age of that genre (1930's through 1950's) Their first choice is a good one.
It is about a man who will inherit his uncle's wealth after his passing.
This is complicated by the fact that his love interest will not marry him until he becomes a man of substance.
When the uncle is stabbed in Piccadilly Square he becomes the obvious suspect.
However, the last half of the book is full of unsuspected twists and turns that caught me off guard.
After reading John G.
Brandon's A Scream In Soho (which I loved) I was eager to try more of the series but this was a let down.
The best thing about this book was the cover for me.
The first half of the book was a snoozefest, you get introduced to snobs and the poor, neither of which are compelling or remotely interesting.
The second half of the book picks up and it starts to develop a bit but it was not enough to change my mind about the book as a whole.
