https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6668467-winter-garden
::: FULL REVIEW NOW POSTED :::WOW. WOW. WOW!!!! Winter Garden was one of the most breathtaking  books that I have ever read in my entire life. And I do not say that lightly. I cried so hard I couldn't even see the pages. The emotions were overpowering and all-consuming. It also has THE. MOST. BEAUTIFUL. EPILOGUE. of all-time. The only other books that has made me cry this hard before has been The Bronze Horseman which is my favorite book in the world... My God, THE FEELS!!!! What began as a fam
If you're a romance reader (like me), please don't worry though, I promise the ending is amazing.The other important things to know before you read is that I do think some readers might find the book a little slow at first and maybe even find that they didn't 'like' the characters.
I think that it's ok not to like the characters at first because one of the important messages of this book is how often and easily people misjudge each other without knowing their full story.
Because I promise you by the end of this story, I was overflowing with emotion.
The only thing their mother was good for was telling them Russian fairy tales from her youth; Little did they know how important those fairy tales really were.
Nina's father makes a final proclamation as he lays dying: He wants Nina to convince her mother to tell the full fairy tale of "The Peasant Girl and The Prince." This fairy tale does more for their family than any of them could have ever expected.
When her father dies however, she comes back to be with her mother and Meredith.
There are books that I read and I love..
Reality is, life is a series of choices - some are remarkable and some naturally morph in to regrets - good or bad, the culmination make us who we are.My favorite part of the entire story was the dynamic between the two sisters.
Meredith was always the steadfast and responsible one and Nina was the wild and free sister, but they were both strong, just in different ways.
I was completely smitten with both, they were as different as the sisters, but worthy in their own ways.Of course, the ending left me in tears.
This is written in the past and present tense, which is a common scenario in many novels, but one that I enjoy.
It's like reading two different novels.What starts as a dysfunctional domestic situation between 2 sisters (American born) and their Russian-born mother ends up being so much more.
Grief and a deathbed promise brings these unhappy women reluctantly together, and what seemed like a familial dysfunction becomes an intimate look at war-torn Leningrad and the atrocity of war.
Very moving, and well written.
The characters are flawed but believable, the novel hard to forget and the ending entirely satisfying to this reader.
The writing is pedestrian.
The characters are cardboard cut outs and insufferable to boot.
I hate novels in which all the characters have to be beautiful.
We are told over and over and over about the mother's "astonishing eyes" and the eldest daughter's "curvy hips", big eyes and "Julia Robert's type mouth".
The younger daughter (a Pulitzer Prize winning photojournalist, yet) has a heart shaped face, black pixie haircut and "perfect skin".
The male characters are uniformly handsome and blond.
The character's musings are repeated and restated and reworded every few pages.
I cannot stand writing like this.
Meredith and Nina spent their whole lives without really knowing their mother Anya.
Any attempts they tried to make to get close to her were rebuffed, so they gave up trying and began to believe that maybe their mother just didn't really care about them very much.
The story follows Meredith, Nina, and Anya as they get to know one another and grow closer and transition into different places in their individual lives.
I really really enjoyed this book.
This is the second book by Kristin Hannah that I read and I have been equally impressed by both.
I really want to read more from her.
Excellent heartfelt story about the troubled dynamics of the mother/daughter bond and the relationship between two sisters.
Their Russian-born mother, Anya, however, has always been cold and distant and the girls have felt unloved, affecting each of them in different ways.
But the girls made a promise to their dying father and they gradually begin to draw the truth out of their mother through the fairy tale she's been telling for years, but never finished it to the end.
More than a set of facts from a history book, Hannah makes you feel and I was brought to tears more than once.These three women slowly reconnect with one another during a trip to Alaska and the telling of their mother's story.
Kristin Hannah cleverly and skillfully weaves an emotional fairy tale into the storyline that becomes the core of this story and we begin to see how it shaped the relationship between Anya and her daughters.
We all really loved the discussion we had for this one and we really dug deep into the emotional depth of this story and how it made us feel.
I will leave you all with this quote from the story and we all highly recommend reading Kristin Hannah at her best with this one.
It is a story of relationships--mother and two daughters, Meredith and Nina, and the two daughters who have a strained relationship.
In one last attempt to heal the emotional gulf between his wife and children, he asks his wife to tell them the fairy tale of the peasant girl and the prince.
She refuses to accept a marriage proposal from someone who loves her and she loves because of her stunted emotional growth.But Meredith and Nina and their mother come together through the fairy tale, which reveals long buried secrets of pain and sadness.
I recommend reading The 900 Days: The Siege of Leningrad by Harrison E.
Some themes are close to me notably stories that deal with mothers and daughters or families in general. That is a theme also dear to Kristin Hannah, from what I read of her books and especially in Winter Garden: "They would always be a family, but if she learned anything in the past few weeks it was that a family wasn't a static thing. There were always changes going on. Like with continents, sometimes the changes were invisible and underground, and sometimes they were explosive and deadly. The
Some themes are close to me notably stories that deal with mothers and daughters or families in general.
That is a theme also dear to Kristin Hannah, from what I read of her books and especially in Winter Garden:
Like with continents, sometimes the changes were invisible and underground, and sometimes they were explosive and deadly.
Winter Garden tells the story of Meredith and Nina Whitson and their supposedly heartless mother Anya.
For over an extended period we get to know of Anya while she faces tremendous obstacles and disaster, but ends surviving despite all her suffering.
Hannah tells a breathtaking story, I don't comment on it feebly.
When their father died, both women were left to developed a relationship with their mother, who was compelled by her husband's extraction of a deathbed promise to finally tell her story to her daughters.I think this is almost a tale of two stories as the first and second halves couldn't be more different.
However, her narration far exceeded my expectations and her delivery of Anya's story was just incredible.
I'm really, really happy I chose to listen to this book instead of reading.I very much enjoyed this story, including the slow build of the first half as it created the perfect foundation to launch the second.
Nina is an unsettled world traveling photographer and Meredith is a workaholic wife and mother who remains home to run the family orchard and never does anything for herself, it's always for others.When Evan Whitson, husband to Anya and loving father to Nina and Meredith suffers a stroke and is not expected to live, he makes Anya promise to finish the fairy tales she would occasionally tell to her daughters when they were young.
As the story goes on Meredith and Nina realize that perhaps this isn't just any fairy tale, could this be the key to learning of their Russian mothers past?
It is only when the adult daughter can learn the mother’s story that empathy can grow and affection can flow between the generations.
Only, this version of the story has the feel of a screen play targeting the women in Opra’s audience.
The present day sections of this story could be titled Women Are Snow Leopards; Men are Cocker Spaniels.
The three women, mother and two adult daughters, all seem to suffer from emotional constipation.
The three men on the other hand, the partners of each of these women, suffer from emotional diarrhea: their affection is hot, runny, and limitless even when not wanted.
As noted in my review of The Great Alone, I read Winter Garden during the same time, making both books my first experience with Kristin Hannah.
Winter Garden is the story of family dynamics and family dysfunction.
It explores the lives of adult sisters Meredith and Nina, and their mother, Anya.
Sidenote: as mentioned, I read two of Hannah’s books during the same time.
It becomes challenging when you feel that you are reading the same types of stories over and over from one author.
I did not feel this way at all with these two books.
I will definitely read more of her books.
(Who said we can't judge a book by a cover?) Unfortunately, I read The Night Road as my first book, and did not enjoy it as much as I enjoyed works by other similar authors, namely, Picoult and Chamberlain.However, at the persuasion of more friends, I decided to give her another chance, so I chose Winter Garden as my fluff read at the end of last year to balance the stress.
However, the story still filled me with extreme sadness, regardless of the perfect ending.
Neither Meredith or Nina ever shared the same love for their mother, but they promise their father that they will take care of her once he is gone.
After their father passes away Meredith and Nina find the following few months rather difficult and soon realize that caring for their mother, Anya was going to be more than a challenge than either one of them imagined it to be.
Anya had never expressed much love or affection for her girls over the years, in fact, she had been quite cold toward them, but she had her reasons and she knew it was time to explain to Meredith and Nina why she'd been so cold toward them all these years.

While this one was not as good as Nightingale, I was surprised at how much I enjoyed (and was moved) by it.Like Nightingale, Winter Garden includes a historical and modern day story (a two-fer, as my GR friend Cathrine calls it!).
The historical tale is by far the better story here, and thankfully takes up the majority of the book.
There are about a million reviews of this book, so I won't summarize the plot.
All I will add is that this book has me wanting to learn more about the Siege of Leningrad.
Another 2018 re-read Would you believe that this was actually my firstKristin Hannah novel? Even after all these years( first read was before Goodreads lifetime), it's probably the Hannah novel that I recommend the most and still holds those five golden stars. Winter Garden has that perfect blend of mother/daughter strife that makes for a very emotional experience while relating the very real historical event of the seige of Leningrad.
Sometimes I had to put it aside for a while because I couldn’t bear to read too much of the 1940s Leningrad stories at once.
Other times I couldn’t bear to the book aside at all and had to keep reading but that was once I got further into the novel.
I found her hard to relate to, until her story and past is revealed.
Meredith and Nina also were hard to like.
I do admit to having the odd tear at times as the story progressed.
I liked the idea of the fairy tale element that runs through the novel.
«Las mujeres tomamos decisiones por otras personas, no por nosotras mismas, y cuando somos madres… soportamos lo que nos echen por nuestros hijos. Los protegerás. Te dolerá, les dolerá a ellos. Tu cometido es ocultar que se te está partiendo el corazón y hacer lo que necesitan que hagas».Este es un claro ejemplo de cómo una historia puede ser desgarradora, increíblemente conmovedora y bellísima. Todo al mismo tiempo. Maravillosa.
BLECH.My sister got my hopes up, oddly, when she said this was chick lit disguised as intellectual - but I couldn't even find the disguise!This book fell into the category of those home spin wonders of Eileen Gouge and other women who either watch too much of the wrong TV or read the wrong books or something.
Or, better yet, after Hannah chooses the super original pathology of having her characters be people who run from conflict or emotional turmoil, she makes sure to tell you.
Over the top surly Russian mom who hates her daughters but loves her super husband.
Super husband who somehow overlooks a lot of emotional abuse and neglect.
Stupid twin sisters who have no personality and nothing interesting or original.
What she does not realize is how meaningful and life-changing the story will be to her family.The fairy tale is anything but a simple tale, it is Meredith and Nina's only real connection to a mother they have never really gotten to know, having long-ago given up trying, much less understand.
At the heart of the story is three women connected by the bonds of family who deal with grief differently and must come to terms with it.
It is not just Anya's story which is compelling and heart-breaking, there is also Meredith and Nina's stories that reflect two women at crossroads in their lives.

Οι 2 αδερφές δεν έχουν την καλύτερη σχέση με τη μητέρα τους. Όταν ο πατέρας τους πεθαίνει του υπόσχονται ότι θα τη γνωρίσουν πραγματικά και θα την προσέχουν.Η Άννια, αρχίζει να τους αφηγείται ένα παραμύθι, που στην ουσία είναι η ιστορία της ζωής της. Μια ιστορία που θα έπρεπε να είχε ειπωθεί πολύ νωρίτερα, όπως νομίζουν εκείνες. Ακούγοντάς τη, αρχίζουν να "μαθαίνουν" τη μητέρα τους και κατ' επέκταση την ιστορία τους.Έχοντας διαβάσει το Αηδόνι της ίδιας, ήμουν σίγουρη ότι δεν θα με απογοητεύσει.
I have just turned the last page,cleared my throat from holding back tears, and set this beautiful novel on my night stand.
Let my review begin...At the beginning I thought some of the dialogue was cheesy, but I could see a story developing.
I didn't know until about half way through what an amazing, haunting, mesmerizing story awaited.
The way Hannah wrote Vera's story was so vivid I felt I played the character of Vera's shadow and felt every emotion and saw the world through her eyes.
It was incredible.P.S. The cover of this book is breathtaking!
Please everyone read this book and be blown away!
This is the second Kristin Hannah book I have read where I have actively DISLIKED the main characters throughout the first half of the book (the other was "True Colors").
Now - - that being said - - -the second half of the book, particularly Hannah's retelling of the siege of Leningrad, is fabulous.
Hannah uses the characters of Vera, Sasha and their children to bring that horror and pain to life, and to illuminate the reasons for the cold reserve adopted by the mother toward Nina and Meredith.
The story tells of two sisters, who lead very disparate lives, but are forced to deal with each other and their mother, who had always been very emotionally negligent and cold to them, when their father dies.
Why couldn't she love her daughters?What the daughters don't know and don't find out about until after their father dies, is that their Russian-born mother had lived through the hideous Siege of Leningrad and her grief and guilt about what she had to do to stay alive kept her distant from her American-born children.
Ufff ahora lo termino y todavía tengo los sentimientos a flor de piel!
Otra joya la que ha escrito Kristin Hannah, como ya hizo con El Ruiseñor, nos transporta a la segunda guerra mundial donde nos hace sentir los horribles sucesos que tuvieron que vivir muchas personas.
Los personajes se te meten debajo de la piel y puedes sentir su dolor.
Pero también puedes sentir la fuerza, el amor, la superación, muchos valores que se potencian en esta gran historia y que hacen que se convierta en un NOVELÓN!
I enjoyed reading this book, but it was definitely not as good as Hannah’s other books. The ending was kind of the worst in a lot of ways, but everything before that was pretty good. As always in Hannah’s books, the characters shined in this book. They grow so much throughout and I loved going on the journey with them.
