https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6858.Hot_Six
Book Review  3+ out of 5 stars for Hot Six, the sixth book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2000 by Janet Evanovich. I've had some bad days before. I've even done some things I am not exactly proud of. But one thing I've never done... set someone on fire. Who does that? And what do you do to get revenge on the fire-starter? Maybe Drew Barrymore has some ideas. I'm a gonna call her today. On a more serious note, yes, that's poor Stephanie's life in this book. Bail jumpers
Book Review
3+ out of 5 stars for Hot Six, the sixth book in the "Stephanie Plum" cozy mystery series, written in 2000 by Janet Evanovich.
I've even done some things I am not exactly proud of.
But one thing I've never done...
On a more serious note, yes, that's poor Stephanie's life in this book.
For those new to me or my reviews...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Oh, Morelli... I just needed to express that. I was only going to give this book four stars until that decision was swayed in the end by said individual. And I'll add that I really don't think I would mind it much if a muscular Italian Jersey cop called me "cupcake"...
And Reefer said why didn't I come out to say hello to his brother.
So I walked out with Reefer, and you know Reefer always has good weed, so one thing led to another, and I thought I'd just relax in your car for a minute and have a smoke.
He was charged with vehicular manslaughter because according to the M.E. she was already dead when he took the tire iron to her.
Once you invite them in, that's it, you're as good as dead!" "This isn't a vampire.
"Guess Bob's got a sweet tooth," Grandma said.
"He might not be too smart," Grandma said.
This was shaping up to be an eight-doughnut day. Seriously? I want Stephanie's metabolism! Where do I sign up for this? If I had an eight-doughnut day, I would have the get the word "Goodyear" tattooed across my ginormous body.Also the only way to get me to sporting events.So, another day, another dollar. If Stephanie can bring in a crazy lunatic that keeps trying to set her on fire. And, if she can lose the newest guys who are following her around town. Plus, she has to hope that her new dog,
Plus, she has to hope that her new dog, Bob, doesn't just eat her paycheck.
Ranger has a habit of showing up in Stephanie's apartment in the middle of the night to get status updates.
Bob isn't much of a watchdog either, because he doesn't even wake up when Ranger breaks in.
I feel like I am really getting to know all of these wacky characters, but then new ones are always coming in.
And, although there are always the expected things, like car mishaps and an eating disorder, it hasn't yet gotten old to me.
Romulans, its always the Romulans!Reread...again. April 2018. I love these books!! I have my daughters read them so they can be prepared for me in my old age. I already have a red corvette picked out.
Mooner, Ranger, homicidal maniacs, a Rollswagon, dog poo, a dead guy in a lawn chair, the nemesis from hell, a Star Trek party and eccentric Grandma Mazur all make up my favorite Stephanie Plum novel so far! Lots of laugh-out-loud moments and great secondary characters.
Grandma Mazur gets a lot of page time in this book and I love that nutty old bird just as much, you can definitely tell which side of the family Stephanie takes after.Just when you think Stephanie has her love life sorted something comes along and mixes it up, in this case it's her growing attraction to Ranger and his darkly seductive flirting that sends her pulse racing.
Ranger is in trouble and for once he's the one who needs Stephanie's help.
This is the 6th book in the Stephanie Plum series - and by far the best so far! Grandma Masur, the dog and Lula made this story priceless!! Although I am new to this series , and reading them in order- I can see where the Joe vs Ranger love triangle may get to be 'annoying' (for a lack of a better word) . I'll still continue this series - and I wonder how long it will be for me to get annoyed by the love triangle- we shall see -- so for now---- on to the next !
Mystery.
Stephanie Plum!
Being tailed.
Car on fire.
Has an unwelcome houseguest.
I was warned these books get predictable, but I...didn't think it'd be this bad?
Okay, okay, I'm shaking it off.
This here's the book where Ranger's wanted for questioning in connection to a fire and also a murder and has Stephanie doing stakeouts for him.
During the course of the investigation, she picks up a dog and a roommate, and then a couple more roommates.
Ranger's pretty frisky here.
Morelli's getting antsy on account of not getting any.
And Stephanie's still making the same stupid mistakes.
This book really lacked focus.
Totally hilarious and worth its weight in gold.Stephanie Plum, a bounty hunter with attitude and an interesting fashion sense runs around with her sidekick Lula in attempt to catch and haul in criminals that have missed their court date.Working for Vinnie, is interesting to say the least.
Saved by Grandma or damned for days of mental lusting?Between Morelli, Grandma and Ranger, Stephanie really has her hands full in this book.
I started with #8 (Hard Eight), recently finished up #7 (Seven Up) and the latest listen has been Hot Six. Reading these backwards has been an eye-opening experience and I'm now able to pinpoint exactly where things began to become repetitive for me as a reader (the very beginning of book #7, for those interested).Hot Six has all of the wit and the fun its two follow-ups lack.
In Hot Six things are just beginning to get that "same-old, same-old" feeling about them.This time around Stephanie is on the hunt for fellow bounty hunter and lust interest, Ranger, who is a suspect in a murder case.
While Stephanie tries to do what she can to help Ranger, she has to confront her usual array of problems that include being followed by unscrupulous characters, having a huge dog dumped on her, Grandma Mazur moving into her apartment, being shot at, and the loss of another car to fire.
Stephanie is involved with on again, off again cop boyfriend, Joe Morelli, but she also finds her attraction growing for Ranger.
The usual sexual tension heats up between Stephanie and Joe, but this time she is also struggling with a not so welcome attraction for Ranger.
Actually, my rating is more like 3.5 starsThis is my first Janet Evanovich book (although sixth in the series,which I didn't realize) so I can't compare to the ones that went before.
Rare to find a book so humorous and witty.The characters, the Mooner and Dougie the Dealer, are like totally cool, dude (and dudettes).
All I can say is. Ranger? Morelli? Who could choose...
I think I'm going to give up on the series after reading the first 6 books.
I like the fast paced story line and I understand it's not the type of book to have much character development, and I really don't mind that but what I mostly can't stand are love triangles that do not get resolved within a book or so, and I am afraid this series looks like it's going to be one loooooong lasting love triangle (judging by the summary of book 18 that just came out).
It sucks because I really enjoyed the new characters that got introduced, and I think the love triangle is completely unnecessary part of the series.
These are light, make you laugh out loud books. I read them when I want light and I want to laugh. This one was just as good and ridiculous as expected!
Yup, same Ranger that has given her hot flashes in the past.Stephanie ends up with a spastic dog, Bob, that’s scared to be alone and an eating disorder.
Bob only adds to the fun at the house, especially since Grandma Mazar moves in!
Grandma Mazur is hilarious!
Sadly, because this audiobook was abridged, I’m sure a lot of her little quirks were cut out.As usual, she teams up with Vice Cop Joe Morelli and manages to hold off the craziness to solve the mystery behind a murder.Narrator Review: Here we go again with Debi Mazar.
Another funny mystery involving the bumbling, fly by the seat of her pants, Stephanie Plum. I listened to this on audio, and while the story was good, the narrator was horrible! It did take away from my enjoyment a bit, but I didn't let that affect my overall rating.
Another Stephanie PLum book, another day.
But I'm still feeling a little bit of the ick factor as far and Stephanie's involvement with Joe and Ranger.
I could live with both at the same time (yum) or I could live with her seeing them both, but I can't live with her being jealous over Joe and fooling around with Ranger.The mystery in this one bored me a bit overall and the guest characters of Dougie and Mooner became a little redundant.
I miss Sally Sweet (I know, get over it..) But I also miss the logical person Stephanie Plum is when she's getting laid on a regular basis.
I had to set this book aside at first, as I had slightly o.d. on Stephanie Plum.
After a two week hiatous, I found my eyes wandering over to the coffee table, where "Hot Six" rested upon the top of my TBR pile, mocking me, wispering about Ranger in the wind, Morelli in heat, so on and so forth.
Stephanie is back, and I have resigned myself to the fact that being ridiculous is all a part of her charm.
Ranger tackles Stephanie 3.
Stephanie wrestles a naked FTA to the ground4.
Stephanie saves a nip6.
Morelli proposes, sorta, maybe
There were a couple good new characters but the best on might be Bob the dog.
There is no less than three instances where i actually laughed out loud reading some of the parts in this book involving Bob. A friend asks Stephanie to watch his dog, but before it's too late she realizes he is leaving him for good.
So Stephanie with the help of her friends watch this crotch sniffing canine.
I already have the 7th book ready to read, so if you haven't started these you better hop to it.
They go much faster the second time around. Fun books and I love grandma and Ranger!!!
I'm working my way through the series, finished this one last Friday and I'm already half way through the next one, Seven Up. This one had me laughing so much I ended up telling my kids about 60 percent of the story because they'd hear me laugh and want to know what was so funny.
When I say it that way it leaves you with a frozen smile and a blank look too though, am I right?
Those are just the things that let you know when it's time to close the book.
What makes you want to read the book in the first place are the characters.
"You know, when you're a cop you get to a point where you think you've heard it all," he finally said. "You think there's nothing left that could surprise you. And then you come along, and it's a whole new ball game." I agree Morelli, but you know what? Stephanie is not the worst, it's everyone that surrounds her who is. In this series they're all crazy mad. Poor Stephanie's mother, why is it always her? Why does she have such a daughter and such a mother that should be a poor old lady but actu
"You know, when you're a cop you get to a point where you think you've heard it all," he finally said.
At some point those interruption were starting to annoy me as well WTH 😂But finally Morelli realized that he has to marry Stephanie!
High five!(view spoiler)[This time Stephanie suddenly has a dog at home (you're so cute Bob!), but she didn't actually ask for him in the first place.
And again, an assassin that is after her, two weird stalker guys who should be scary but they are actually idiots, and Ranger who keeps invading Stephanie's home and privacy in the middle of the night.
When you are six novels deep into a series, you are already comfortable with the characters.
And some new characters like Mooner and Dougie made me laugh.
Bob was a new addition to the plum family.
Even though Stephanie was tricked into it, bob warmed her heart.
Would Stephanie's love be divided between bob, hamster Rex and Morelli?
I wonder if bob is here to stay.
Will have to read the next in the series to find out.
All in all, this novel was a fun read.
There is never a dull moment in her novels.
This was just too much fun. Grandma Masur, the dog and Lula are just too funny to pass up even though Ranger was the target this time.
Her grandmother is one of my favorite charaters
My God I like the hilarious comedy and Stephanie's antics but this was too much and her stupidity made me grate my teeth in disgust but what can you do but love her. Poor Joe and Ranger.This time there's no big bad for Stephanie to catch because this time it's Ranger who is FTA. And Stephanie refuses the case and dude like always stupidity and hilarity ensues.May be I will take some break from the series and read something different but won't stop reading and you should too just Keep on Reading.
I went off Janet Evanovich and her sassy bounty-hunter heroine Stephanie Plum for a while, because I thought I detected the emergence of the dreaded LOVE TRIANGLE erupting between Stephanie and the two eligible bachelors around town, Joe Morelli (cop) and Ranger (fellow bounty hunter and general entrepreneur), at the end of “High Five”.
The eleventh adventure of Ms Stephanie Plum has just come out, so I am really behind the times with number six here, but I am pleased to report that, despite a little bit of love triangle action, this book is thoroughly enjoyable.
This was the first Stephanie Plum novel I read.
Stephanie Plum is perhaps the most inept bounty hunter ever, but she manages to capture most of the FTA's assigned to her.
With each successive novel, Janet Evanovich adds new layers of depth and hilarity to her characters.
This series is fun to read - told in first person from Stephanie's point of view, the reader gets to "see" the quirky, dysfunctional lives of every day Americans.
You can relate!I recommend this series to anyone who likes lighthearted mystery/suspense novels, told with a witty, sometimes sarcastic, sometimes lovable tone.
