https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22729746-night-moves
Not sure why this was linked to the Night series as no relation to others, has totally new characters and new setting.I enjoyed it but felt ending was rushed and finished far too abruptly with no epilogue!
4 Stars ~ Maggie's a talented composer, which her Grammys, Oscars and Tonys attest to, but she'll always be the daughter of her celebrity parents who died in a plane crash when she was 18.
Far from her LA mansion and her celebrity life style, she immediately fell in love with the house and seen all the possibilities the surrounding land had to offer.
When the excavator unearthed human remains, Maggie's quiet life suddenly spiraled into a murder mystery.
There's no doubt he's been murdered and Maggie quickly learns that whole town had hated him, including Cliff.
Maggie Fitzgerald bought a house in Maryland and is ready to live her life her way.
She hires Cliff Delaney to do landscaping around the property while she tackles the renovations inside herself.
While Cliff was a bit of a jerk at times, he wasn't that bad in my opinion.
Of course, Maggie has a say in her life and no one was going to tell her otherwise.
The romance was the star of the show with the suspense/mystery taking a bit of the back burner.
Felt a little dated but it was written over 30 years ago.
Cliff was a little too overbearing for my liking. I wasn't a huge fan of his or the whirlwind romance here. I liked the mystery more than the romance.

The story is a bit too short, I would have enjoyed a little more suspense.
Also, there is no epilogue.Cliff was a little too rude for my taste though I liked Maggie.
I wouldn't definitely like a man who'd behave that way in real life.Of course, Nora is a master at writing emotions and this is no exception.
Only if the book was longer with more emotional scenes and mystery.
It'd have been nice to read the gradual transition of Cliff's lust to love, instead of hinting it in a few simple sentences.
Das war tatsächlich das langweiligste und das schlechteste Nora Roberts Buch,das ich gelesen habe, schade...
As she is settling in to rural life she hires a local landscaper to overhaul her 12+ acres of 10 year old neglected land.
A 10 year old mystery is revealed along with the bones.
Why was old man Morgan buried on her land?
What is Cliff's connection to Morgan family?
As the murder and murdered come to light will Cliff be in time to save Maggie from harm?
I gave this book 4 stars because I liked it as an easy quick read as only Roberts can deliver.
Recommended as a vacation/beach read.
Nora Roberts'in Orginal adı Night Moves olan Bir Gece Ansızın isimli kitabı yazarın diğer kitaplarına biraz vasat bulsam da severek okudum.Polisiye temaları ile kurgulanmış duygusal bir hikaye idi..Dünyaca ünlü bir bestekarın kargaşa ve kalabalıktan kaçmak için taşındığı bir kasabaya yerleşme hikayesi idi.. Maggie yeni aldığı evi hem tadilat yapıyor hem yerleşiyordu..Sıra bahçenin tasarlanıp düzenlenmesine gelince kasabada bu işlerin ustası Cliff Delaney ie anlaşır..Yeni evinde bir takım gizemli sesler de duymaktadır..Bahçe düzenlenmesinde bir havuz istemesi ile olaylar başlar.Çünkü kazıda kafatası bulunur. Bir yandan bu durum le uğraşırken bir yandan da Cliff ile arasında oluşan yakınlaşması ise derinleşiyordu..Nora severler bu kitabı kaçırmayın...
A fast-paced, engrossing read...a little shorter than I'd expected but that might be because it was easy to glide from one sentence to the next...from one page to the next...
Maggie and Cliff - very exciting characters, both passionate in their own ways and more alike than they could see; it was great to see them finally understanding each other and their love..
The suspense, though mild and sporadic throughout, nevertheless rounded out and contributed to their relationship nicely.
It was a lovely end to the Night Tales series for me and a quick glance at Nora Roberts' writing about two decades ago.
What dribble! This reminds me of those sleazy novels with the picture of a bare chested man in front of a beautiful women. Every other chapter was filled with Maggie's and Cliffs erotic moments. The story itself has been told many times and thankfully it is a very short book. Nora Roberts should be ashamed of herself for putting out such a pointless book.
I am 99% sure that this is a book my mom had an old paperback of and that I read in secret as a teen before I admitted I was reading her books. Why I thought I needed to hide that I don't know, because my mom is the most chill person in the world, but I did.Anyway, this is a really good Nora 1980s category title. Worth checking out if you want to read what she was writing before she back NORA.
Same as the other stuff from the 1980s. Pushy, arrogant hero that gets a little rapey. Strong, slightly quirky woman that is just so misunderstood. Interesting little mystery. Purply mushy sex scenes that are overly long for being so tame.Also, nowhere in Maryland is 3,000 miles away from LA.
Can I give this a zero? The main man in this book borders on creepy harassment too often for me. When a woman tells you 'no' - whatever her reasons are - you back away and respect her wishes. Showing up and pushing yourself on her is simply not romantic.
Not like the usual NR books I read. The story is not really interesting and also not too many conflicts. Well, for reaching my goal for this year I choose some HQ so that I can finish them quickly :P
25 November 2015: $1.99 on Kindle
I have no idea how Nora Roberts does but she is able to entertain me, excite me, soothe me and take away my troubles with her stories. Thank you
TOTALLY NOT A PART OF THE NIGHT TALES SERIES!!!
Re-read3.5 stars
And I braced myself, because if the reviews were to be believed, I was not going to like this one.I was really confused when I started this one, because it was like it picked up in the middle of something.
I suppose it’s a bit like binge-watching a show, and seeing how things connect even when all the pieces were there before, you finally can put them together because you’re better able to see the full picture.And the full picture I see if that someone needs to get this woman a career book, stat.
I didn’t feel connected to it.
This is the first of the seven or eight Nora Roberts books I’ve read where I wasn’t sure who to trust from the jump.
(Roberts has about 200 more books I haven’t read, so she’ll have several more chances to surprise me.)I loved how confident and in control (of herself, of her situation) our heroine, Maggie, is, even/especially when she’s bossy.
I did not love how bossy our hero, Cliff, is.
He seems a little unnecessarily cavemannish to me, particularly when he ignores/rejects some very clear verbal and nonverbal “nos” from Maggie early on.
How can you go wrong with a Nora Robert novel?A talented songwriter-musician moves to a dilapidated house in western Maryland and finds the solace and place of being she wants.
Enter a temperamental landscaper who wants to restore the lands of the farm to their glory, but he clashes with the musician with his rudeness, not with their ideas of what works for the land.
So the mystery begins!I either really like Nora Roberts storyline or I find it okay.
But I've never found one that I am truly disappointed in reading.
She writes well, and I will continue reading all of her stories.
Entretenido.Maggie es una artista que enviudó dado que su marido se suicidó y ella carga ahora con la "responsabilidad" de no haber podido hacer nada, por eso compra una casa en un rincón en el bosque alejado de toda sociedad, al que decide hacer su hogar. Claro, no contaba con el hecho de que el paisajísta que contratara fuera un guapo y viril hombre que está dispuesto a compartir ese espacio con ella.Agréguenle a esto un poco de suspenso, cuando ella encuentra unos huesos en el jardín, de hace 10 años, alguien fue asesinado allí. Entretenido. :3
This is a five book series so I will do one review for all five. The books are great. The characters are easy to like although at times you wonder what they are thinking. The 3rd one has an odd twist that doesn't really fit in with the series but doesn't diminish from the storyline. I would recommend all these books although not so much to be listened to as the narrator isn't the best. I almost didn't listen to the series but I'm glad I did.
Every chapter was filled with "mills and boon type" romantic moments of Maggie and Cliff! Was expecting a slight thrill with chill with a dead body buried near the heroine's house but well that was not the case. A complete disappointment! Tip: If you still want to go ahead and read this book just read the dialogues between the characters and you'll still understand the story without actually reading everything.P.S. I've read a couple of Nora Robert's and I've liked her books.
I didn't realize when I started reading this that it was kind of like a short story; that's why I gave it 3 stars. The story was good and I liked the characters but since I felt like the relationship was just a bit rushed because it was a short story,. **SPOILER** there was no reason to have a proposal thrown in at the end. She could've ended it with a short couple of paragraphs about them wanting to continue living together. Still a good read though.
Was this a prequel to the real book? The one that has a battered wife running for her life? I'm asking, cause I kinda got the feeling that Cliff is training Maggie to be compliant, so that when he starts hitting her, she won't leave him. In the book he doesn't like her, he won't take no for an answer, he criticises her looks, he dominates her even though she's his customer... He's a rapist and an abuser, right?
As a quick read, it's a meh. One thing that bothered me was that (view spoiler)[ the first half of the book was the heroine clearly saying no and that she wasn't interested in getting with him or having him touch her, and then the man sort of pushing on anyways until she caved. There are several better books by the same author to try instead. (hide spoiler)]
Abrupt endingsI love Nora Roberts / JD Robb books, but so many end so abruptly. She almost misses the HEA of a story. I feel left hanging. They end with the good guy getting the girl, but it's so abrupt it feels like you're left wanting an ending. This story is marvelous. Murder mystery, music, and romance.
Disappointingly neat ending with a deeply disturbing relationship that personified the awful “he’s mean to you because he likes you” trope. Yuck. Also it was obvious who the killer was the second you were introduced to the character. Every character in the book is shallow and messy and utterly devoid of personality. At least the descriptions of the scenery were nice.
