https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/549488.The_Last_Place_on_Earth
those crags and ridges!) as a sort of Nansen of the page, an Amundsen of the pen, fighting his way to his own South Pole (so to speak) with demoniac fervour and holding the results to the world's nose in triumph.Sharp corrective here to the Scott I remember from many a school assembly.
Deciding at the last minute to take 5 men instead of the planned 4 to the pole, inevitably leaving food and fuel short.
Reading this book ignited my interest in Antarctica and literally changed my life. I took up mountaineering, winter camping, and cross country skiing because of this book.On Dec. 24, 2004 I stood at the South Pole after a ski journey of 73 miles (a bit more than the Last Degree of latitude).
The first 3/4 of the book was like that for me, but the final 1/4 of the book, the part that dealt with the actual journey of these two men to the south pole, I read in just a few days because I liked it so much.
To be fair though, he has the data to back up his conclusion, and I found it difficult to not side with the author in admiring Amundsen and his preparation, leadership, and optimism.I will admit that I found the account of Scott and his 4 companion's deaths one of the more sad deaths I have ever read.
Scott and Norwegian Roald Amundsen, adventure and exploration of the Antarctic, and above all a tale of leadership--superb and inept.
Scott, who Huntford called "muddle-headed" and a "bungler" embodied the spirit of "self-sacrifice." A naval officer who was the epitome of "regimented mediocrity" Scott only became a polar explorer to jump start his stalled career.
Rather than embrace self-sacrifice and suffering as an ideal, Amundsen attacked the problem of polar exploration rationally and efficiently.
I'd recommend this book to anyone interested in Antarctica, polar exploration--and especially the qualities needed in able leadership.
The Viking son of a nation struggling for a voice at the world table, and a protégé of its people’s last hero turned reluctant diplomat, Amundsen came forward to take the mantle of Nordic conquest from Nansen’s failing hands with every intention of snatching Scott’s victory from his.And so the stage is set, and no fiction writer could have crafted the tale that follows any better than the way that these two men and the characters that supported them carved it in reality.
And Roland Huntford’s The Last Place on Earth is by far the most superbly crafted retelling of this story.
And the part that perhaps Sir Peter Scott, the son, disagreed with the most was the fact that Huntford felt the need to mention that Scott's wife (Peter's mother) briefly had an affair with Amundson's Norwegian mentor while her husband was exploring the pole seemed a bit unnecessary.However, the book is worth five stars for the sheer detail and exciting way that Huntford writes.
What I learned: Don't attempt to be the first person to reach the South Pole if you don't really know anything about polar exploration. Also, stories about explorers in Antarctica are less depressing than stories of explorers elsewhere, because nobody lives in Antarctica, so there's no colonialism or genocide involved.Foolery aside, this is a fascinating book.
Huntford wrote the definitive book on the famous Race to the South Pole between Englishman Robert F.
Each man receives a thorough investigation from childhood until death, as professional Polar explorers and private men.
Scott's life and death.
The facts prove Scott was willfully stubborn, inexperienced with polar conditions, and blinded by romantic notions of Man's Indomitable Will to Triumph.
Huntford gives a frank appraisal of the man, the first in the genre, with such conclusive research that every subsequent book about the journeys cannot ignore his findings.I will read Huntford's books on Shackelton and Nansen when mail resumes in the spring...
Heroic bungler Scott is dealt with as much objectivity as one can muster, although there is the sense that his faults were explored in far more detail than those of Amundsen.
The Race for the Pole, and Amundsen's journey of the North West Passage are true legends that are done perfect justice by Huntford's masterful account.
The story of the North West Passage in particular was a pleasant surprise and it is this journey that actually shows the depth of Amundsen's readiness to learn from what is available to him.Overall, a stunning work that really stands on the shoulders of the Earth's greatest Polar explorer.
Roland Huntford's take on the race to the South Pole is fascinating, often riveting.
I'm far from an expert; it seems much of the criticism of Scott is deserved if one looks strictly at what was the most efficient and safest way to the pole.
Roald Amundsen is so prepared and efficient that it almost takes the fun out of his first-to-the-pole feat.
Scott, who of course died on his way back after losing the race to the pole, in many ways certainly seemed reckless.
I've always been struck by the fact that the British revere Scott, a miserable failure, in my estimation. He was smug, didn't do his homework, and wasted resources on a doomed effort. Amundsen, on the other hand, studied the Eskimos to learn how to survive in harsh arctic conditions, learned how to use dogs, including eating them as they went along, and he breezed to the South Pole and back almost as easily as a walk in the park. Scott insisted on taking mules, which required that he haul hay along. Just ridiculous.
Huntford hates Scott as if Scott had killed Huntford's mother personally and then insulted her a couple times for good measure.In a way, the book is more revealing of Huntford than Scott or Amundsen.
Everything Amundsen does is justified and excused, whereas Huntford doesn't have a single good thing to say about Scott, to an almost comical extent.
In the end, it's undeniable that Amundsen was the better explorer, but Scott had the better story.
Amundsen may have been prepared for all other aspects of his journey, but if he could not tell a good story, then he neglected something very important, while Scott's people ran with it.
The North Pole had just been conquered.
No one had yet been to the South Pole.
Once he had decided to conquer the South Pole, he let nothing stand in his way.
British Commander Scott was Amundsen's perfect foil.
He was a well born pompous British naval officer, rigid in command, obsessed with his public image, careless with the lives of men and animals.
For me, the triumph of the human quest for discovery is somewhat overshadowed by the fate of the creatures that were so paramount in reaching the South Pole.
How (not) to win friends and influence people
I love me a good arctic adventure story and this was certainly that.
A well-told tale of the two polar explorers, their two different national cultures, their different strengths and weaknesses as men and as leaders and how the complex interplay between it all had a profound influence not only on them in their time, but also on how we remember them.
Not too often does one come across a book that is thrill-a-minute & adrenaline pumping, is a study in planning, leadership styles & crisis management and is non-fictional, fully based on real life events.As far as personalities go, Amundsen and Scott were the proverbial poles apart.
Huntford does a wonderful comparative character study, although his no holds barred all out attack on Scott does get tiresome at times.
Prone as he is to hyperbole and sweeping generalizations, the author still succeeds spectacularly in bringing out the magnitude of Amundsen's tour de force and leaves no stone unturned in his efforts to launch a stinging critique of not just Scott but the vainglorious stoicism of the Brits.Unputdownable - now I know what that means :)
This is the ultimate adventure book and it's stunning because IT ALL HAPPENED!!)As I was browsing through a random book at Fram Museum in Oslo a few months ago, my eyes rested on a small passage of Amundsen's letter that he left at the South Pole: he was wishing all the best to the British explorer Scott, who was expected to reach the Pole later, and telling him to please take whatever supplies he needed from his camp.
It is spectacular showing how little "good luck" is actually needed in succeeding and how much dedication and preparation goes into a Polar exploration.The book goes through two parallel stories: the first of the Norwegian explorer, and the second is Scott's, the British.
It brings the early 20th century era of polar exploration to life.( My edition was marred by several typos but not enough to damage the pleasure to be found in this book.) It not only covers the period leading up to Amundsen and Scott's race to the pole, but also is a detailed biography of each.
He dismissed anything to be learned from native peoples as useless to modern civilized men.
The race was lost by Scott before it even began.The irony is that the incompetent leader who lost the race, got himself and his men killed, became a international hero, enshrined in the British Empire's pantheon of secular saints.
The ultimate contest for the last place on earth to conquer.
And what would that do for any man's exploration budget!
Scott's expedition is so I'll advised as to seem a mature in comparison.
Scott's party fails at every step.
This is a huge book with a huge cast of characters for the fight for "the last place on earth".
Remember, this is no novel- it is raw unabridged suffering and hardship on a grand scale with the culmination being the death of one of the greatest explorers of the twentieth w.
This is an amazing book. It is thrilling and at the same time very interesting from the historical point of view. The only thing that may be considered a weakness is the bias that the book carries so strongly. Scott is depicted as such a feeble character in so many words that it is sometimes hard to imagine that so many people believed in his competence for so long. But it is a good, interesting and entertaining book, very well writen and highly recommended.
The Last Place on Earth is an exhaustive, well-researched account of Scott and Amundsen's race to the South Pole, but I can't rate it any higher because of the author's huge bias against Scott. I get it--Scott isn't my favorite either, but contempt and loathing ooze off every page, which makes it a little hard to trust the author's conclusions.
Despite his incompetence, Scott became the hero because of his literary writing style and theatrical death, and Amundsen was forgotten—becoming something like a Captain Ahab, a Citizen Kane whose Rosebud was subsumed by the utter accomplishment of his singular life goal—the South Pole.
Huntford could have definitely trimmed the fat in some places, but the truly amazing set-pieces—Amundsen's decision to secretly change his expedition course from the North to South Poles (at the suggestion of the shifty Frederick Cook, no less)—and Amundsen's discovery of the Pole (followed by Scott's arrival and discovery of Amundsen's note)—animate these larger-than-life characters in memorable ways.
And like Kane and Ahab, obsession can only get these explorers so far.
what an amazing book about extraordinary men, bravery and ambition. while this books main star is roald amundsen and its clear that the author dislikes captain scott, you cant quite blame him for that, at least if you have any idea about british polar explorations style of that time. nevertheless, this book was so much fun to read and gives good insight into history, culture, technology and society of that time. also, who wouldve thought that the world of exploration was full of drama, deceits,
while this book´s main star is roald amundsen and it´s clear that the author dislikes captain scott, you can´t quite blame him for that, at least if you have any idea about british polar explorations style of that time.
nevertheless, this book was so much fun to read and gives good insight into history, culture, technology and society of that time.
p.s. after reading this book i added fram museum to my bucket list of must-see places :)
The British, led by Robert Falcon Scott, reached the pole a month later, and died on the return journey.A good subtitle for this book would have been: “How the unpretentious Norwegian bested the inept, thin-skinned man-baby.” Or perhaps: “Why default assumptions of white superiority can prove fatal.”The difference in outcomes is attributed to a difference in methods.
On his journey through the Northwest Passage, Amundsen befriended some Inuit, from whom he learned a good deal.
Scott sought consciously to keep qualified, competent men (who knew how to use cross country skis or sled dogs) away from his party, because he saw them as a threat to his command.
What come across most is that Robert Falcon Scott was a loser of the first order: Vain, thin-skinned, a social climber, poor leader, worse planner, and horrible decision-maker.
If you'd tried to invent a model of the worst type of character to lead an expedition of this sort, you'd come up with Scott.
The main difference between the two men is this: Amundsen wanted to reach The Pole for its own sake whilst Scott wanted to reach it because that would likely ensure his promotion to admiral.
Amundsen saw it as an admirable end in and of itself whilst Scott saw it merely as a means to that end.

The epic saga of the race to the South Pole, including the early careers of Amundson and Scott leading up to the event.
Amundsen practiced his craft for years until he not only became an expert but had redundancies in his plan to cover any contingencies, while Scott just "winged it" and was thus wholly unprepared for the ordeal...
But Amundsen never got the credit he deserved (outside of his native Norway) during his lifetime thanks to the power of the British Empire to control the levers of power around the world to the point that Amundsen's brilliance was dismissed away while Scott made out to be a tragic hero.I read about 30-40 books each year and this was by far my best read of 2016.
This mythbusting book shows that Scott died because he was an incompetent boob, in contrast to the Norwegian who succeeded, Roald Amundsen.
Where Amundsen was practical and cautious, Scott took dreadful risks (Amundsen went with double the food he needed, Scott had no margin for error); where Amundsen used experience (he spent a lot of time with the Inuit up north), Scott flew blind.
And many of Scott's supposed nobilities (too much a dog lover to use sled dogs as harshly as Amundsen) were failings too (he wasn't good with huskies so he minimized their use).
Huntford does a good job of going through the genesis of the two expeditions to the South Pole, and provides a highly detailed account of the two journeys.
He sets the stage with a description of Amundsen's and Scott's earlier explorations, their personalities, backgrounds, and leadership styles.
Those who reviewed this book and felt that Huntford was biased against Scott may simply be reacting to Huntford's strongly positive assessment of Amundsen and his strongly negative assessment of Scott.
The author provides more than ample evidence for his opinions.If you enjoy accounts of great journeys and exploration, this book should be on your reading list.
