https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6393631-smile
Cute, but a bit forgettable.
(As if puberty isn't traumatic enough!) Follow this lost heroine as she battles pimples, overcomes destructive friendships with hypercritical mean girls, endures painful oral surgeries, and finally finds her way to feeling at home in her own skin when she reaches high school.In a particularly wonderful moment, Raina rebukes her long-time "friends" who do nothing but tear her down and tease her.
Of course she adrift and lonely for a while, but Raina makes new friends soon enough.The moment-of-truth comes when Raina is finally freed from her brace-faced prison.
But these new friends are nothing like the petty old friends.
Smile is a memoir graphic novel that centers around Telgemeier's traumatic orthodontic experience.
Coupled with the fact that I myself have been experiencing a dental nightmare since November, I figured I was primed to appreciate this book.First things first, you don't really need to know too much about the plot, because it really will ruin it for you.
Here are a few things that may motivate you to give this book a second glance.
This is book that will appeal to people of all ages.
The good news is that Telgemeier is working on a followup to this memoir series entitled Sisters.
A great read. I enjoyed the story and wow, I had no idea that orthodontists could move teeth that dramatically. I mean this girl really went through a lot with her teeth. She knocked out her front two teeth. She went through some hell here.This is a great coming of age story with great colors and fun art. The story was fun and fast and honest. I will read more of these books.
She has made the truth obvious that it’s not easy being a teenager, and that everybody at some point goes through something similar.One of my favorite two scenes was when Raina was angry about the fact that the dentist was going to pull out her teeth, in order to move the rest of her top teeth toward the center.
It’s one of the best comic books that I’ve ever read, Raina Telgemeier has really captured the true feelings and emotions that every teenager goes experiences, through engaging illustrations.
And I'm still not sure it was worth it.Still, regardless of how difficult my own experience was, those pains, miseries, and woes pale when compared to the manifold sorrows with which Raina Telgemeier's young life was cursed.
I'm getting queasy just writing about it because as Telgemeier relates the event and immediate aftermath in her autobio comic, Smile, the whole experience is rather harrowing.
So make of that what you will.To its fortune, Smile is a brisk read for all its pages and will keep most readers interested enough to finish the book in a single sitting.
I had braces for years, and had the orthodontist accidentally crack one of my teeth when he was polishing them up after I got my braces off.
Raina tells the story of her own dental trauma-drama with this delightfully drawn graphic novel that lays bare not only the horror of dealing with the braces, the fake teeth, the retainers after her accident, but also frankly reveals her awkwardness, loneliness, and nerdiness in jr high and beginning high school.
So I had to reread it myself, and wow, I had forgotten how great it was, and how it's not just about her teeth, but her life, her friendships, her school struggles.
Jake's Review: Um Mom, this is like a girls book, do I really have to read it.
I don't think my friends would like this book because they are boys and boys don't like to read girls stuff.
You can bring me more graphic novel though ok -- much more fun to read than books!Rating: 7/10 (I know I am surprised he gave it such a high rating)Mom's Review: I honestly didn't think Jake was going to finish this book, figured he would just read a couple of pages and than give up.
I expect more from the books I read, especially graphic novels, than what was presented here.
I would keep it in case a student was a struggling reader, or if I wanted an example of a graphic novel (though I feel I can keep better examples than this).
I intend to teach high school and as such I would hope this would be a little below their level.I would recommend this to an early middle school student or a child I knew was about to get braces to sort of ease their worries about what was going to happen to them.
It tells the story of Raina's life from middle school to high school.
From braces to headgear to even root canals, Raina tells us how she survives school.I think this a really good and interesting book.
It's good because many of us middle school girls can relate to it.
The events keep hooking you because event after event there are interesting things.Raina illustrates and describes the scenes really well because you can actually step into the character's shoes and start to live their life and see how they feel about things.
I would probably recommend this to middle school girls as it's mostly a girl book and they type of situations are what we can relate to in real life.
Four stars (rounded up to a full five stars, as I have indeed very much enjoyed if not loved both narrative and illustrations and been really and truly touched by Raina Telgemeier's delightfully frank openness, and heck, as a person of German extraction and language instructor, I cannot help but wax poetic about the scene where Raina is obviously taking German at school and that the relevant illustrations actually have ALL of the German language words spelled with no grammar or orthographical mistakes).
A graphic novel I picked up for my 6th grader who just got braces. She read it this afternoon from cover to cover, finished, then walked over to our computer to search for more books written by Telgemeier. I quickly read it myself and am glad I did! A relevant, fun, comic novel that touches on many of the awkward themes facing pre-teens. Hey, if reading it actually made my daughter SMILE, I guess you really CAN judge a book by its cover :-)
Want to know what can possibly go wrong if you accidentally knock out your teeth? Just read this graphic novel and you will get a whole picture of that situation. GOD! Although I laughed a lot, I felt bad for the writer as it was a memoir!It was a cute little book with nice illustrations for some light read. Looking forward to read the next one. P.S. I did not know there are so many types of dentists! :v
As I turned the pages, I found that I wasn't just reading a story about Raina, but about myself.
I saw myself blossom from awkward middle schooler to high school/college student, through Raina.
Also, students would be more inclined to read this book and understand it since they can see the words and the pictures together, almost like a still movie and the remote to go to the next scene is just them turning the page.
Students will want to read this book and they will connect with it more since it will be a lot of what they are going through, particularly the girls.
I saw this book in the orthodontist's office while I was awaiting my appointment to be fitted with braces.
It's ostensibly aimed at adolescent/teenage girls--which as an adult male, I am not--but in my vulnerable state of anxiety and meek submissiveness I thought the book still might be a source of comfort.
After an accident, she undergoes years of braces, headgear, sadistic periodontists, and associated teenage drama.
And I don't have to do it as a teenager.
The larger point, made very effectively as Raina negotiates various dental and social trials, is that there are both important and unimportant influences on your happiness and self-esteem.
I feel like Smile might be a good book to give to a girl who's just found out that she's going to need braces and is feeling down about it. Very likely, she'll have it a lot easier than poor Raina did. This is the author's own story about what she went through with her teeth. It must be true, because nobody would make this up. It's a fun read, when I wasn't squirming with sympathy pain. The art is cute and cartoony, possibly because anything realistic would make this just too gruesome.
The target audience is quite obviously young girls (around age 10 to 14, I'd say), and though I was a little too old for it, I still thought it was really sweet.I loved that it focused on themes of family and friendship.
Raina's parents were loving and supportive and Raina was part of a group of friends for a long time who constantly made fun of her.
Eventually she realized the best thing to do was leave them and find new friends who accepted her for who she was.I think I would have loved this when I was thirteen.
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐As someone who went through a very similar process and just completed one of my last dental surgeries, it was about time for a reread.
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️As someone who went through a very similar process and just completed one of my last dental surgeries, it was about time for a reread.
I thoroughly enjoyed this graphic novel by Raina Telgemeier; such a fast-paced and fun read with colorful drawings.
The aspect I enjoyed most about Smile, is the fact that this is Raina's actual life story.
We get to see her going through a tough time with lots of dental work and braces in her childhood and adolescence.
It's nice to see that after she went through all that painful dental work, Raina's smile turned out looking pretty good; which we can see at last page of the book!
Really recommend this read to anyone who's looking to read a graphic novel or simply a really entertaining story!
I liked it, but it definitely wasn't something that I would remember or want to read again.If you are looking for something light and funny to read, I recommend it :)
A cute humorous read about the horrors of growing up, getting braces (or almost getting them), and all the in betweens of adolescence. Full review to come.
Smile was a treat.
Maybe I’ve matured as a reader and viewer of graphic novels, or maybe Raina’s way of illustrating is paramount, because I did not feel hampered by the illustrations at all.
Everything about them compliment, elaborate, or expand on the text, making the story and events come alive.Smile was also a treat because of the story itself.
In sixth grade, Raina damaged her front teeth.
The book begins just before that and ends when she’s a high school sophomore and they finally, after various treatments and teeth ordeals, remove her braces.But it was so much more than that!
Smile is one of those books that you could read in 3 days!
This is probably my favorite book I've read so far!
They go through the longest process to get that tooth fixed including braces, retainer, fake tooth, and surgery.
During the process a lot of other things happen.
But most importantly, she starts middle school!
While you're reading this book you will be saying to yourself " No Raina thats a bad idea!" or " Awwww pore Raina!" This book is filled with so many twists and turns.
But overall this book was really fun to read.
A positive about this book was that I could relate to it a lot.
Since I was born with a cleft lip and palate, I, like the protagonist, needed a lot of dental work and endured teasing in school.
However, I felt that the way Telgemeier portrayed junior high/high school issues in this book was quite cliché.
3.5 stars.Oh, and this book is a really quick read.
I read it during a free period at school after buying it at my sister's first grade book fair.
It's been on my reading list since my 8th grade English teacher talked about it; finally listened to her after 4 years ;)
I really enjoyed this memoir, framed by Telgemeier's dental accident and all the surgeries/braces/retainers that followed. Middle school is hard, especially when you have to deal with changing bodies, newfound interests in boys, "mean girl" friends, PLUS being super conscious when you smile. The message about pursuing your interests and walking away from toxic friendships was spot on, and it was so reminiscent of my own middle school experience! I had an almost verbatim conversation about bangs and hairspray with a friend during that time, lol.
draguta si usor de citit - o carte pentru toti :D
Cover simpel, gambar kawat gigi yang kinclong serta nominasi Eisner Award membuat saya tanpa ragu membeli Graphic Novel terbaru terbitan Gramedia.
Keluarga, teman yang suka meledek, mulai taksir-taksiran dan lirik- lirik kakak kelas sampai masalah besar yang menghantui hidupnya beberapa tahun ke depan.
Berawal dari tersandung, dua gigi depan Raina 'mblesak' ke rahang, sehingga kunjungan dokter gigi menjadi rutinitas dalam hidupnya.
Jadi ingat saat saya masih menjadi mahasiswi Fakultas Kedokteran Gigi juga saya tak menyangka ada begitu banyak spesialisasi dokter gigi.
Senyum menjadi graphic novel favorit saya, ilustrasi Telgemeier yang simpel dan elegan, kisah Raina yang berdasar pengalaman hidupnya sendiri menjadikan buku ini sayang untuk dilewatkan.
Smile was a graphic novel about an actual event that happened to the author Raina Telgemeier.
In this book, it centers around the theme of Raina's awkward orthodontic experience when she first knocked her front teeth out after a girl scout meeting, returning home.
She then had to go through a long process of fixing her teeth.
I can relate to this because I am having to also go through the process of straightening my teeth at the orthodontists.
I can relate to Raina and her experience on soon becoming an actual teenager.
WAAAH! I LIVE IN SAN FRANSISCO AND MY PARENTS ARE FORTUNATE ENOUGH TO GIVE ME DENTAL SURGERY AND BRACES AND MY LIFE IS SO HARD.This is actually a really well done book about a sixth grader with braces, and since braces are a big deal to kids that age, I can see why it is getting positive reviews and why probably, they find this drama enjoyable. Plus, cool illustrations, good coloring, nice overall package, attractive cover.(**I just found out this is autobiographical, so, I am sorry for my outspokenness! But not sorry enough to edit it.)
I loved how we got to see so much of the main characters life and the illustrations are clear too and this was so interesting to read about some of the things the main character did and said was frustrating I loved it more the first time I read it than the second
