https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30260.A_Fistful_of_Charms
For some reason Ivy, one of the vampires in the book, says, I mean exclaims "Shut up!" very often.
I wondered from what old horror movie or literature has the author taken this tic and made it her own.But as you see, I've given the book 3 stars, which is not to be sneered at.
I think that the book lacked fiber.
Yes, the heroine, Rachel, does not travel to the ever after , nor does she invoke a demon.
I'm thankful that Rachel didn't sleep with every hot man she meets.
But there is enough here to keep me puttering to the next book.
I didn't empathize much with the vampires.
In fact, I probably hate blame-shifting more than Rachel's convoluted rationalizations that manage to hold her accountable for things that are only marginally her fault (if at all).
Sorry, don't buy it.So again, GREAT premise, action-packed plot, BIG Jenks (*swoons* *drools*), lots-o-good stuff here, but also again, REALLY over the Rachel and Ivy drama.
Where the hell is Trent Kalamack???He is probably off getting his elf butt married to that cold-hearted lady of the previous installment, but still...
(Have to admit I am not precisely too great a fan of Ivy either...)Nick...
Nick can climb up the highest tree for all I care!
I didn't like him when he made his appearance in the first book, I grew to dislike him even more in the second book, I barely tolerated him in the third one, but now I downright HATE him!
I don't think I'd care if something (anything) happened to him.But Trent...
His elfish butt better be in the 5th book!
“As the joke goes, you don’t have to be faster than the wolf chasing you, just faster than everyone else running away.” Undoubtedly the best book in the series, and by far the most action-packed one too. Mrs. Harrison has set the bar too high for me and unless the next book is just as good I will be a tad bit disappointed. This did the trick for me. If I didn't love the series before now I definitely do. The more this series progresses and I get to see and know more of the characters, the more
Undoubtedly the best book in the series, and by far the most action-packed one too.
Mrs. Harrison has set the bar too high for me and unless the next book is just as good I will be a tad bit disappointed.
This book is so action-packed.
It's the sort of action that makes your blood run high and that's exhilarating.
Or things you wished that never happened because from now on shit will be going down.This book has cemented another storyline and I love how this series just keeps getting more and more complicated without buffling you but it takes one problem at a time and solves it slowly.
*Potential spoilers ahead* - I will try to keep them very mild so you'll probably be okay, but added a warning just in case.Basic plot of A Fistful of Charms: Rachel discovers that her old boyfriend Nick, who disappeared at the end of the second book (I think; I don't remember exactly) has taken off to Michigan and gotten into a lot of trouble after stealing a priceless werewolf artifact, taking Jenks's son Jax with him.
Rachel is getting on my nerves big time and that's never a good thing for the main character of a series.
I also don't like what's coming for Jenks.
And I didn't even get some sexy times to distract me from all that in this book.What I did like is the writing, the world K.H. built and the overall plot.
I will probably keep reading the series as I'm too curious and I need to find out what she's going to do with all the marks and the black she's acquired but I'll take a break for the moment.
Whilst there was all the usual excitement and twists and turns i was starting to feel like i had read this all before.
Rachel is starting to get on my nerves a bit, i really can't understand how one person can keep making such bad mistakes and never learning from them, and she seems to have the biggest libido in the world.
And is she ever going to stop toying with Ivy's emotions.Whilst everyone else's characters seem to be developing, Rachel, the main character doesn't seem to be.
This book has left me feeling that i'm not sure if i want to read any more of the series.
The last couple of lines of this book were the best of this whole series.I still don't LOVE this series but I'll give the next book a read now just because I want to know what bloody happens.
Though it's edging eerily close to an Anita Blake theme here.I think the reason why I liked this story better was because it was blessedly free of demons.
When there's a demon around, you can almost bet that Rachel is twice as dumb as usual.
Unfortunately, the title of the next book is A Few Demons More.Fuck my life.
I'm prepared for some serious dumbassery.
Shortest review ever:While reading this book I couldn't stop my self from thinking a saying that we have here in Greece "even more stupid than chicory". Rachel is so dumb that my hand is twitching.  I hope that I won't end up rooting for a demon to take her out of her misery.
I think I may have overdosed on this series.
Usually I like to leave a space between books in a series, but I enjoyed the first in this one so much that I read 4 in a row!
I checked reviews and most people think this one was just as good or better than the preceding books.
So I think I need a break.Specifically though, I didn’t like the fact that Rachel was rescuing Nick who didn’t deserve her help.
I don’t like Nick and I absolutely HATE him calling her ‘Ray Ray’.
The story begins with Rachel in the middle of a Were challenge.
If that wasn't enough action, Rachel gets drawn into some Nick drama that includes Jenks' son, Jax. Apparently, he's acquired a powerful artifact that will threaten the Inderland world, giving Weres a dangerous advantage, and he's now missing along with Jax. Nick.
Despite some great action scenes, a BIG Jenks (who knew he was so appealing?) and a fantastic Were shift, for me, this story couldn't rise above the weight of the tiresome Ivy and Nick dramas.
Don't get me wrong, the great moments and action scenes were spectacular.
ACLARACIÓN: Aunque esta reseña tiene marcado 'spoilers' después de cada ítem, no suelo spoilear nada. Es decir, no escribo nada que arruine la trama principal. (En caso de hacerlo, lo advierto previamente con una nueva marca de spoiler>!! O sea, te encajo un spoiler adentro del spoiler, porque estoy muy jugada, y soy re heavy y re jodida.)  ¿De qué trata? : Rachel Morgan, físicamente incapaz de tomar la mitad de una decisión sin meter la pata, mete la pata el triple cuando decide ayudar a uno
Ya desde el primer capítulo, momento en que Ray-Ray termina cabeza abajo en una batalla de alfas sin tener vela en ningún entierro, la historia inicia a toda acción: acción estilo película apta para mayores de trece años: muchas piñas, poca sangre- (hide spoiler)]
Aunque a veces me encantaría conocer el punto de vista del resto de los personajes, porque la colorada es harto irritante es demasiadas escenas, sobre todo cuando está tratando (y fallando) de entender a la gente que la quiere.
Pero, en el momento en que descubre que Nick es un (view spoiler)[ladrón profesional de cosas invaluables  (hide spoiler)], lo descarta al toque como la persona más malévola del mundo.
3.5 starsThis book was entertaining but had some seriously annoying moments - basically the same things that have bugged me every book so far.
Overall, the good outweighs the bad and I'm looking forward to the next book.Jenks (view spoiler)[hell to the yes for big Jenks!
(hide spoiler)]Nick (view spoiler)[Go away.
(hide spoiler)]Ivy (view spoiler)[I'm so annoyed by her drama with Rachel.
(hide spoiler)]Kisten (view spoiler)[I do like him but really there isn't a future there.
(hide spoiler)]Rachel (view spoiler)[I waver between rooting for you to wanting to strangle you.
Honestly However, overall I do like her, she cares about others and doing the right thing.
Nick, Rachel's ex-boyfriend is a conniving little snot.
He ends up partnering with Jax (Jenks' son) and they get themselves in trouble with the weres after their attempt to steal the Focus.The gang take a road trip to save him and Jax, but Jenks needs to be a bit more powerful.
Soooo Rachel makes him big!
While this particular book wasn't my favorite, that one scene is probably one of my favorites of all of the series.
I am not that big on werewolves, so that probably contributed to this not being my favorite series.
To use an expression presented in A FISTFUL OF CHARMS: shit on crap.I suppose vampires might inhabit Cincinnati, but I can think of plenty of other places I’d rather reside were I to wake up one morning and enter the land of the undead.
If I were to get shot in the foot, whacked over the head (and knocked unconscious), strapped to the front of a wooden roller coaster at Cedar Point, and then shoved against a brick wall at over ninety miles an hour, I’d probably have an easier time describing what happened to the authorities (assuming I miraculously survived).Cross-posted at Robert's Reads
I just love all the characters and even though Rachel can be trying at times with all the danger she knowingly puts herself into, I still can't resist the heart of gold she has that makes her do it.
If there is danger, she will be there starring it in the face and trying to figure out how she can piss it off more.But again, it just works for this series and makes it all the more appealing.
I have always loved Jenks but he really stood out and shined in this and it was so fun to let him have his bold brave moments and really “see” him for maybe the first time.This is such a fun series.
And though I may continue on with the series, I will have to give it some time to let the irritation pass.
I like Rachel with Kisten, at least I did until the end of this book.
that just didn't feel right, even if they are friends and have a history.
Creepers, and come on PLEASE tell me why the author is portraying Rachel like a dog in heat over Jenks...
Umm that just totally irritated me how every OTHER sentence Rachel was drooling over his tight butt.
That totally did NOT do the book any good.
I had a few complaints with this book, the most central being that Harrison is playing the lesbian erotica card, even while denying she is denying her main character's potential bisexuality.
Also, I have a little bit of an issue with the "forbidden" nature of Rachel's relationship with Ivy. The hesitancy is entirely due to gender, not at all to having sex with a vampire, as Rachel has no qualms (well, comparatively) with Kisten.
Is she hesitating because she doesn't want to compromise the old-school sexuality of her main character?
So many things happened in this book that I felt like I was reading more than one book in a same series.
I have read a lot of series but not ever one like this and as good.
I adore all the characters, really, they are unique and really interesting in their own way.**For the ones that have already read 'till book 4**I must say that I missed Al and Kalamack, the series isn't the same without them, it's hard to understand how the book was this good without them, but I hope we'll get a lot more of them in the next.
Sometimes I think Jenks is the only character in this series with any sense.Rachel is screwed up and a bundle of overactive hormones.
Ivy is SCREWED up.
Kisten seems ok, but I'm sure he'll show his ass soon.It took me a while to listen.
Lets not even start on all the yelling.
Maybe it's because of the audio, but these people yell and scream at one another a lot.
SERENITY NOW!!I'm sure I'll keep on (for a while).
I really want to see what happens next, but I get so annoyed by all the yelling and whinging and multiple, multiple threads.
Ok let me just say that I actually really like these books, but man am I really starting to get sick of Rachel.
She waits awhile to see how bad it get's first and I dont think that's because she likes to live on the wild side a bit too much.
I'm starting to think she's stupid or at least slow.
Just because she didn't tell Jenks one stinking secret in the last book doesn't mean it's the end of the world.
It wasn't her secret to tell anyway and even if it was I think your allowed to keep somethings to yourself.
Actual rating 3.5 stars.I enjoyed this but not as much as the previous books in the series.
That's why I'm rating it this way.My biggest complaint is that a big part of the book is devoted to the relationship between Rachel and Ivy and although I like Ivy enough I don't love her ;).But I love big Jenks.
The best parts in the book include him.
Also the Were fights and the action in general were amazing!I missed Trent and Al but considering the title of the next book in the series this will change soon.
Looking forward to For a Few Demons More.
Kim Harrison really puts her all in her books, from the moment I open each novel I feel the warm welcome of the cozy church Rachel, Ivy and Jenks live in.
The real charm of these books is the strength of characters and their bond with each other; Rachel the bounty hunter,then there's Ivy, her slinky hot vampire roommate with her almond shaped eyes, wearing leather and always defending her territory like a lioness and Jenks, mischievous and charming pixy with a great attitude, they are all familiar to but but they have a new problem on their hands.
There is something about the way she goes through Rachel's thoughts that just seems like she's struggling and hurrying along to fill up space while getting to the next page.
In this book in particular, we've gotten to the point where we know that Ivy and Rachel's relationship is strained because the two women show their love and affection for each other in different ways.
This book went back to the struggle that the first two seemed to have, which is following plot.
It gets mixed up with a bunch of other ideas and subplots and as a reader I get lost and bored because you're reading idle filler to just back to the original plot.
This is a road trip book, taking Rachel (witch), and eventually Ivy (living vampire), out of town with a newly reconciled Jencks (pixie) to chase after Nick (human) the ex boyfriend and thief, a potentially powerful artifact, and a lot of werewolves.
It’s funny, because though things do happen here and the plot carries forward, I am left with the impression of a placeholder book.
She’s developing as a writer – the climax of this book has some lovely, aching thematic overtones as Rachel tries to save/kill a living vampire who is in constant, excruciating agony from an unnamed illness.
Kim Harrison does it again. Just when you think you're actually starting to like Rachel, Harrison turns her into a TSTL whining little girl who seems to be deliberately getting in the biggest trouble possible. All in the mean time while trying to get in the pants of everybody in a radius of 50 miles. And when I say everybody, I mean e-ve-ry-body. Male, female, married, single, big, small, witch, werewolf, vampire...it doens't matter people: Rachel doesn't discriminate. What she does is irritate. The next book gets better though.
Too tired for a proper review.Short version: liked the plot, liked Jenks, really could have done without the developments with Ivy. (Also, I'm seriously not liking Nick very much. Nope.)
It's obvious Nick has so much love for Rachel that he's blind to what he's doing.
I've always liked Nick because he's at the low point of the food chain and sometimes, like Rachel when she gets in trouble, that means you have to do some pretty crazy things.
And honestly, though Rachel is more leery of demons because of her past trouble with them, she still makes deals with them.
She knew Nick had the potential to be dangerous and stayed with him even after he started doing demon magic.
That kind of power is tempting and we all know Rachel likes her powers.
Nick got caught up in some trouble and now Jax is stuck in Michigan, which is too cold for a pixie to survive in this time of year and he has no way back.Rachel would do anything for Jenks and quickly agrees to go with Jenks, even if she has to force him to take her along.
She finds some spells in some demon books that her boyfriend, Kisten, dropped off to help them.
One of which makes Jenks big so he can survive the cold of Michigan and can protect Rachel from any vampires that may want to stake a claim on her.
There is also NO Al or Trent in this book, no demons at all, very little Kisten, and the book focuses the inner relationship between her and Ivy big time, some Nick time, and plenty of Jenks times.First, Rachel must make some major moral decisions and delves deeper into darker magic, which intrigued me to no end.
Ivy and Rachel keep exploring their options and issues and this actually makes interesting stuff, even if at this point it starts to lag a bit - Ivy's protective side comes out even further and made me like her more.
