https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1808306.Behind_That_Curtain
"The moment has charm." -- Charlie ChanEarl Derr Biggers wrote in a style which lent itself to romance as well as mystery.
His greatest creation, Charlie Chan, is in romantic San Francisco in Behind That Curtain, but he can feel the trade winds of Hawaii calling him back to Honolulu for the birth of his eleventh child.
Yet the romance of a misty San Francisco filled with the Orient beckon him to remain long enough to solve a crime.Bill Rankin is the reporter bringing the visiting sleuth from Honolulu, together with Scotland Yard's, Sir Frederic Bruce, to write a feature based on their exploits.
Consequently, as you read through his storytelling, you are transported to a completely different land of enchantment and mystery with, as always, more than one suspect to keep Charlie hot on multiple trails!This book takes place in San Francisco shortly after the action in the previous book, The Chinese Parrot, which took place in the burgeoning area of Palm Springs.
It seems that Biggers deliberately filled the tale with as many stereotypical murder mystery characters as possible.Unlike previous tales, which take place out and about in the areas where they are set (early 1920s Honolulu in the first story and later 1920s Palm Springs in the second), this one takes place almost entirely in a closed apartment in San Francisco in the early 1930s.
Charlie Chan is still in California, waiting eagerly to return to Honolulu, when he meets the retired head of the Scotland Yard CID. Sir Frederic Bruce tells a luncheon party about two crimes that Scotland Yard never solved--the murder of a lawyer, and the disappearance, in India, of a beautiful young woman. When Bruce is murdered after a dinner party, there are several women in attendance who just might be the missing woman. Working reluctantly with Chan is a San Francisco cop and a lovely assistant District Attorney.
I'm a Charlie Chan addict
By far the best mystery yet of the three Charlie Chan novels I have read.
As with the first two books, I expected the main protagonist to be yet another White man, with Charlie working behind the scenes.
Here, he is standing all alone, solving his case despite the interference, doubts, and outright deception on the part of almost everyone else—including Charlie's relatives and fellow Chinese in San Francisco's Chinatown.The setting?
With Charlie on the case, things cannot help but work out to the reader's satisfaction.
A Charlie Chan novel is nothing, if not cathartic.
In Earl Biggers' third outing for Charlie Chan, the Hawaiian detective is returning from solving the Chinese Parrot murder case and anxious to return home to his 11th and newest child.However, in San Francisco he meets a friend and grudgingly becomes involved another murder mystery.While possible suspects are at a party (with Charlie Chan in attendance), Sir Frederick Bruce, retired Chief Inspector, Scotland Yard is murdered one floor below.
It would appear that Biggers is deliberately trying to bounce different stereotypical murder mystery characters against each other.Given the modern sensibilities about the way Charlie Chan is usually portrayed; the one character who is most insistent that Charlie Chan is just a 'China man', is the American police officer and he will have his nose rubbed in his prejudice.
Typiscshe Charlie Chan waarin veel gebeurt, vele theorieën worden gespuid en enkel Charlie Chan uiteindelijk de situatie doorziet en de zaak tot aller verbazing oplost.
De underdog blijkt eens te meer de meester te zijn.
Zijn onderdanigheid en gebrekkig Engels (Nederlands in vertaling) zouden vandaag niet meer aanvaard worden maar meteen ook het einde van de detective betekenen.Gelukkig betaan er nog oude uitgaven.
Uiteraard speelt het verhaal zich vele jaren terug af wat wel wat inlevingsvermogen van de lezer vraagt om de plot te kunnen volgen.
En dan een mooie whodunit er boven op.
Another classic Charlie Chan mystery.
I just can’t get enough of the these entertaining novels.
I too wish there were more of the Charlie Chan novels.Mr. Biggers has a writing style that I find appealing.
I like the clever way he keeps Charlie Chan’s dialogue in harmony with his personality; and the informative and entertaining depiction of 1920s San Francisco.
Chan plays a larger role in this novel which I like.
I find it interesting that Chan encounters no personal violence in solving crimes; there are no salacious episodes, yet Biggers manages to captivate you by clever dialogue, creative character development and storyline.
#3 in the Honolulu detective Charlie Chan mystery series set in San Francisco telling the story of the former head of Scotland Yard, Sir Frederic Bruce, who has been following the cold trail of the murderer of a London solicitor killed 15 years ago with the only clue a pair of Chinese slippers the victim was wearing and the disappearance of an English woman in India at the same time.
Chan is a guest at the dinner when the retired detective is murdered.
He reluctantly joins in the investigation delaying his return to Honolulu in the process.Very good group of supporting characters with very brisk and breezy dialogue and a little romance thrown in.
Charlie Chan is in San Francisco now, with a cold case that even Scotland Yard couldn't solve. It seemed to last a little long, but it was an enjoyable read.
Charlie Chan in San Francisco ~ he wants to go home, but the mystery MUST be solved! #3 in the series.
Reread.
Take into consideration that this book was written in 1928, and enjoy it. It was fun. I enjoyed Charlie Chan very much.
Poor Chan is trying to get back to Hawaii and the birth of his 11th son. Unfortunately, he is needed in San Francisco to help solve a murder.
One of the best of the Chan series I've read so far. Lots of fun, great mystery, and well put together.
This was a very enjoyable read. Possibly the best Chan book so far. Good characters, a lot of misleading plot developments.
Frankly, I find the “Confucianisms” in Biggers’ Chan novels to be very funny—preposterous, but gently popping the balloon of the prejudiced investigators, witnesses, and suspects with these odd witticisms.
126) Later, when Flannery is patronizing Chan because the Irishman “solved” the case instead of Charlie, the Chinese detective seems to compliment Flannery while really giving advice: “The wise man digs his well before he is thirsty.” (p.
Behind That Curtain is the third Charlie Chan novel, and was first published in 1928.
Set in San Francisco, the plot links a present day murder with another murder some year previously, combined with a series of disappearances of young women.
Some of the characters are English, which means that must be ex-military officers or have 'Sir' somewhere in their name.
There are some condescending attempts at strong female characters - clearly there was still some way to go to achieve this.
The plot is predictable, and even features a very suspicious butler.
Casual observations aside, this is hugely enjoyable with some excellent and authentic 1920s details.
Colonel Beetham is screening moving pictures taken on his expeditions, and while the lights are out Sir Frederic Bruce is murdered.Charlie Chan is anxious to return to Honolulu but he gets drawn into the case.
There is considerable humour in the book, but it should be emphasised that it is never at the expense of Charlie Chan (indeed much of the humour comes from Charlie’s gentle mocking of the determined but not very bright Captain Flannery).The mystery itself is an ingenious one, typical of the golden age of detective fiction.Biggers was a stylish writer and this is an exceptionally entertaining crime novel and is highly recommended.
But, a day or so before he is to leave, he gets invited to a dinner party, one of whose guests is a famous Scotland Yard detective.
It's interesting that the Charlie Chan books, not only feature a Chinese detective, i.e. someone who isn't your standard white-man hero common to virtually all books from that era (except a few featuring white women or white children), but also all of them, so far, have included a prominent character who is an intelligent, independent, working woman.
In this book, the young woman in question is the assistant DA, i.e. a lawyer no less.
Not only was it a classy, classic mystery, but it was a return to the type of Charlie Chan adventure that I had enjoyed so much after the misstep of the second one.The story has an incredible roster of suspicious characters and multiple mysteries wrapped up in an overriding one.
There are also racist comments casually tossed about, although Charlie Chan has a refreshing way of responding to them that puts the purveyor in an unfavorable light.This was pure escapism for me and I looked forward to each reading visit.
It made me ready to head off into another adventure with the great detective.I highly recommend this one.
Poor Detective Chan - he'd come from Hawaii to mainland USA for a short holiday, then took on a simple errand (which ended up not, of course) and now, in this book, gets stuck looking into another case, another murder with intriguing side-stories.Remembering always that these books were written 90 years ago, I remark upon the author's respect for women in the workforce.
People who've seen the old Charlie Chan movies have only seen a Charlie Chan based on insulting Chinese racial stereotypes, but that's far from truth of the books.
The books are vehemently anti-racist: they call out the racial stereotypes of the era about Chinese people and mock them mercilessly.
The stereotypes ARE throughout the books, but they're spouted by patently arrogant (and usually stupid) white characters and mocked subtly and cleverly by Charlie Chan at every turn -- and objected to openly by other white characters ( though not usually the Chinese characters).
This is my first Charlie Chan book, and I enjoyed it as much as the Edgar Wallace and Agatha Christie mysteries of the time.
Like other mysteries from the 1920's, it has no sex, is full of action, and has beautiful young women and a brilliant detective.
The yarn takes place in San Francisco and involves a retired Scotland Yard detective, who is searching for the perpetrator of a sixteen year old murder and chasing down the disappearance of a beautiful young woman, and of course Charlie Chan, a detective from Honolulu.
Charlie Chan solves all the mysteries while the local cop bungles around.
I read my first Charlie Chan books 30+ years ago in high school.
After 3 decades and having forgotten the story in this book, I decided to revisit Earl Derr Biggers famous detective.
I half expected to find a very different character than I found so long ago.
Yet, I was remarkably satisfied with the story.
Chan is affectingly humble, yet imminently clever in his quiet wisdom.
Overall, this was a pleasurable light read.
I'm glad I decided to take a walk down memory lane and revisit my old friend Charlie Chan.

Another winner in the Charlie Chan series, although my least favorite of the three I've read so far.Coming off his success in the Californian desert mystery, "The Chinese Parrot", Charlie is back in San Francisco awaiting the next ship to Honolulu, Hawaii so that he can re-unite with his very pregnant wife and 10 children. Unfortunately, fate has other plans for Charlie when he is called upon to investigate the shooting death of a retired Scotland Yard detective.Charlie has to use every skill in his arsenal in order to solve the crime pronto and hussle back to Hawaii.
Not as fun as when I read it at the age of 13. However, that is not surprising. This is very light fun reading. Fun for a sixth grade kid, and for a 50 year old kid. Have fun.
This is the third novel in the Charlie Chan series, but the first I've read. I originally picked it up because I'm a huge Golden Age fan and also because I love cold cases. I thoroughly enjoyed it. I didn't guess the killer at all. It was suspenseful, and kept me guessing. I was right about one of the major plot points, but that didn't help me guess the identity of the murderer. I will definitely be picking up the rest of the series.
This 1928 mystery with San Francisco as a backdrop is a great read and seems quite contemporary except that Charlie has to wait to sail back to Hawaii rather than taking a daily flight. Scotland Yard detective Frederic Bruce is murdered while trying to solve a previous murder and the disappearance of a wife in India. There's a female DA with a side love interest and lots of red herrings. A classic mystery.
