https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/469083.The_End_of_the_Road
The Existence of Metaphysics Precedes the Essence of MetafictionBarth’s second novel, "The End of the Road" ("TEOTR"), is now usually packaged as part of one volume with his first novel,  "The Floating Opera". In the introduction to the package, Barth gives the impression that "TEOTR" is the lesser of the two, and that both are inferior to his later, more metafictional works. However, there is much of value in both works and especially in "TEOTR".It's a deeply philosophical novel. However, what
However, what appeals to me is Barth's ability to examine profound philosophical issues within what is ostensibly a realist fictional construction, even if it betrays an occasional black sense of humour or sense of the absurdity of the cosmos.At the most abstract level, the plot encompasses a grab bag of existential and/or existentialist issues: life, being, nothingness, the abyss, choice, indecision, immobility, remobilisation, progress, advice, depression, treatment, inauthenticity, bad faith, deception, infidelity, adultery, a gun, nausea, abortion and death.Yet, Barth pulls all of these together into a novel that is both thought-provoking and entertaining.A Cosmopsist NarratorThe first person narrator is Jacob (Jake) Horner.
So the only thing I (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]’ed for you was that the abortion came not at the center.The other thing about that whole nexus of abortion & existentialist fiction is that it’s structurally analogous to Christian Punk Bands.
Here’s one by a band I used to listen to quite hap’ly (I mean of course the band -- hate the song ; it’s like when Zappa comes along and slaps my working-class consciousness with yet another anti-union song.
But the more important question of course is the War Over The Female Body which comes into play when Abortion becomes the token of the type, Ethical Dilemma ; which is about all that existentialist fiction is good for.
Senryu Review:Does ‘existential’ have four syllables or five? How I wish I knew.
Of course all existentialistic novels deal with death in some way or another, sooner or later, however to bring it up just like that, like nothing had happened, with a casual emergance of this silly object that just shows up and occupies all the minds of all the characters, is just too much.
The little essence they haven't lost up until this point is gone and all that is left are the maneqines of author's copied philosophical ideas.
I always hate when ideas become predominant and make the story itself unimportant and incoherent, yet it is rarely done in such a transparent way.
(…)“Now you’re making the same error Rennie made a while ago, before supper: the fallacy that because a value isn’t intrinsic, it somehow isn’t real.”Unfortunately, Morgan lives in a fool’s paradise, whose design is ready to be destroyed by one of the absurdities of the world, Jacob Horner, whom Joe befriended because he read in his detachment a deeper meaning.
Qui si narra dell'incontro dirompente tra due opposti, “l'Irrazionale o il Non-Essere” qual è per autodefinizione il narratore, l'insegnante Jacob Horner, e “la Ragione o l'Essere” quale si rivela, con radicalità estrema di pensiero e azione, il suo novello collega di lavoro Joe Morgan: presa in mezzo, sarà la moglie di quest'ultimo, Rennie, a farne le spese...
Il romanzo parte in sordina, con rivolti chiaramente paradossali che si impongono via via, quindi procede in crescendo e sfocia in un finale esplosivo.
Datata 1958, un'altra ottima prova, dopo l'esordio con “L'opera galleggiante” (1956), dello scrittore - nonché filosofo e psicologo - John Barth.
I first read this awful book when I was sixteen and Cole Ingersoll loaned me an old paperback copy w
4'5
He retreats to a bench to make up his mind, but there realizes he has no reason to go anywhere -- not to Ohio, not even back to his apartment.
were sightless, gazing on eternity, fixed on ultimacy, and when that is the case there is no reason to do anything--even to change the focus of one's eyes."The following day, a doctor passes Jacob, noting his paralysis, and asks that he return with him to his Remobilization Farm for a course of therapy that includes studying the World Almanac, finding a teaching job at a university, and various other tasks."If you aren't courageous enough to hire prostitutes," the doctor says, "then take up masturbation temporarily.
I'd had this book's translation on my laptop for several years and wasn't even planning on reading it.
its brilliance and subtext.I read the book quickly postponing a lot of stuff but I would only advise it to experienced readers not ridden with sexism.
Otherwise you may get infected with some very questionable ideas that come up in the book but are not served as truths or justice (as far as I can judge).The plot is incredibly gripping and the novel is a tremendous page-turner.
Barth breaks your fucking heart and, for me, writes his masterpiece here. Yes, it is a lonely place to be.
I picked up The End of the Road on a whim, on a visit to my father's house when I was looking for something to read on the bus ride back to New York.
I remebered having liked the Barth that I had read, it was short enough to read on the five-hour Fung Wah trip, and it had a quaintly dated looking cover that appealed to me.
Sadly, the novel contained within was also quaintly dated to a degree that rendered this one a largely unenlinghtening relic from a different era, full of observations about relationships between men and women that no longer apply.
"Whereas the book ends with an abortion, the film is an abortion from beginning to end." --John Barth endorsing a reviewer's judgement.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0065692/?...[Have not seen the film yet. Likely it will never be dvd-released. Probably no need to do so]
Entre 4 estrellas y 4,5.
An excerpt from my book journal on "The End of the Road"Jake and JoeThe two characters, both Jacob Horner and Joe Morgan, are obviously deranged, highly functional madmen who have come to grips with their manias enough to wield them as tools.
And I find very interesting the choice of their professions.Joe Morgan, the History teacher who deals solely with the absolutes and un-absolutes of the decisions of the present.Jake Horner, the English instructor whose internal verbiage instilled within him a state of inertia.In this it is easy to draw the ties that bind them, both educated and highly intelligent (a double serving of traits, I must add, that do not always invite each other over for dinner).
On the other had, I respect that Barth's choice of ending makes a certain kind of perverse sense within the universe he has created, even if that ending is very dark and a major departure form the earlier satirical tone of the book.This is story of Jacob Horner, a young grammarian with bipolar tendencies whose therapist recommends that he take a teaching position somewhere so that he has some purpose in life.
It's extremely fun, at first - Barth is a delightful writer with a wicked sense of humor - but as the plot thickens, so does Barth's style, and the ending comes as quite a shock.
Our main character Jake is manic depressive but often finds himself in states where he feels nothing at all.
Sounds Buddhist in today's parlance but I don't think that's what's going on for Jake.
But the thing I LIKED about him was his ability (a failure really) to see everyones' point of view.
The thing that saves him is action (and it kills Rennie--hello, Freud).
The first 3/4 of the book don't mesh with the last 1/4 where Jake is a man of action.
Jacob Horner (the boy in the corner?) is the disaffected youth, paralysed by the choices he feels he's supposed to make, when he bumps into the mysterious Doctor in a train station.
The Doctor prescribes an unusual treatment, and Jacob finds himself on the way to the small town of Wicomico and a job at the teacher training college there.
Everyone in this book is pretty awful - Jacob treats other human beings like dirt, and the couple have children who barely seem to feature in their "enlightened" scheme of thinking.
Once in highschool, I asked one of my more blowhardish teachers (with all the earnestness of a truly desperate cult adherent), "What do I read when nothing in life seems to matter?" His prescription for my malady was John Barth's End of the Road -- and I'm still recovering from his misdiagnosis.
But instead of getting to the bottom of why I felt this way, or doing the right thing and discrediting my teenage ennui with an array of reasons why some things actually do matter, all Barth offers is a weary minuet of complacence and futility that did nothing but deepen my own horror about society and my chances of ever understanding life.I've resented that "teacher" ever since.
And I find it equally hard that Joe, an arrogant and pompous historian, could control the life of his wife so completely (even granting that the book takes place in the early 1950s when women were much more subservient).Some of what we consider abhorrent behavior as readers today also was considered abhorrent by Barth when he wrote the book, So I'm guessing that his purpose was to expose the absurdity and cruelty of the men and their philosophies.
To quote the author, "I wanted the adventure to teach me this about myself: that regardless of what 
Kafka and Beckett and a host of other existential writers posit persuasively the meaninglessness of human actions / decisions / effort.
Most existential writing (I'm thinking of Metamorphisis and Godot here) recommend giving up.
Barth poses 3 decision rules to allow us to choose among equally meaningless actions.
The laws of sinistrality, chronological primacy, and alphabetic primacy.
In fact, 90% of the time I can choose my next step with the law of sinistrality alone, 10% with chronological primacy.
In almost 40 years I have never needed to go to the third law to make a decision.
Sometimes even the most awful people reflect directly back into you. Jacob Horner is the most vile character ever written. This book will crush your soul - will leave you feeling empty - horrible - you'll be in despair ... you will marvel at Barth's skilled hand. Barth can write. If you can read, read this. It is a literary experience the way such experiences should be. I can't say anything regarding plot points because ever turn of the road is important for you to navigate with a fresh mind.
Paired with Barth's first novel The Floating Opera, The End of the Road deals with similar themes and situations ~ sexuality, existentialism and "a love triangle" but goes in a different direction. More philosophy driven and instead of dealing with suicide, it deals with complicated relationships and abortion, which makes for a tougher read but it is a really interesting little book and worth the read.
Hmmn. Barth... sometimes you see an author, you see the talent, just not sure it's your cup of tea. That's happening here. Good stretches, a touch of humor, but also some tedious ramblings and it is a bit disturbing around the end.One of my motivations for picking up this book cheap when I saw it is that I've had Giles Goat-Boy laying around forever, and just have not gotten to reading it, figured this could help me see if I want a larger dose of Barth. Not sure I do.
Again, just a micro review. Enjoyed it a lot, don't know why it took me so long to get around to it.There's a memorable and merciless scene involving a boy scout uniform that has stuck in my mind for years. 'Nuff said.
Weird read. Heh. Philosophy and threesomes meet and go horribly wrong in the form of archetypal characters.
My favorite existentialist novel. Of course, it doesn't really matter that it is my favorite. Nothing really matters...
And like TFO, Jake inevitably sleeps with Rennie, though, unlike Barth’s earlier novel, this is not welcomed by Joe. And so here the interesting difference lies: the book’s dark turn hinges on the fallout caused by Rennie’s infidelity which involves, by turns, Jake’s and Rennie’s and Joe’s and Rennie’s and Rennie’s and Rennie’s consideration of suicide (hey, like TFO!).
These considerations are further complicated by Rennie’s unwanted pregnancy (unwanted because she isn’t sure who the father is (a lot of the last quarter of the novel involves Jake’s attempt at securing an abortion for Rennie, which was sociologically curious (like reading about the Jim Crow south) because it was so difficult because this was well before Roe v.
