https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47559.Amphigorey
A Collection of Edward Gorey’s 1st 15 tales that are mostly out of print.
This is the best way to be able to read Edward Gorey now.
His first story was 1953 and the last in the collection was 1965.
The artwork holds this collection together, but for the most part there is nothing that pulls them together accept Edward’s dark sense of humor.
This is a fantastic collection of stories, probably more for the mature reader.
The story was a surprise and a delight if you can be delighted by a dark twist.
Eventually, I will read them all.
Filled with even more violent child deaths than its successor, Amphigorey Too, this collection of fifteen of Gorey’s earliest works is a catafalque of morbid delights.
Insects make sacrifices to their vicious gods, an anthropomorphic houseguest makes a nuance of itself, guests at an orgy bear witness to the horrors of a sofa modified into an infernal device, a threesome of fops make a doomed expedition on a handcar, the alphabet is learned at the expense of twenty-six children and, in general, the many eccentrically named characters that populate Gorey’s world are fated with brief lives that only in end in uncertainty and terror.
This volume contains The Gashlycrumb Tinies. Perhaps the best way for children to learn the alphabet and of the horrors of life.
And his twisted, creepy sense of humor is just my cup of tea (not everyone's cup, I know).
It can be dark but funny at the same time.
It's not about some silly, creepy stories, there's a dark reality here that can be found outside this book.
So, if this is too twisted and horrifying for you, can you survive watching the late night news?My first Gorey was The Gashlycrumb Tinies (review here).
And I just immediately connected with this weird little man.
Most of the times, there's a lesson to be learned in these stories.
So, it's weird but also hmm...

Amphigorey, or amphigouri, meaning a nonse verse or composition.
That is totally this book and the 15 stories included in it.
Strange, dark, creepy....I love it.
I'm certainly a fan of Gorey and can't wait to read the other 'Amphigorey' books.
Each story is told with various black and white drawings.
I have to say, this book is *not* for children.
Some of the stories are just ghastly, such as The Gashlycrumb Tinies.
Learn your ABC's along with rhyming verse telling how small children die.
But those looking for strange and unusual and macabre, this is for you.
I really enjoyed "Amphigorey", which is a collection of 15 books first published between 1953-1965. "Gashlycrumb Tinies", "The Listing Attic" and "Wuggly Ump" are a few of my favorites titles in this unique and sometimes bizarre book.

This is a favorite line of mine: "On the shore a bat, or possibly an umbrella, disengaged itself from the shrubbery, causing those nearby to recollect the miseries of childhood."The Bug Book tells the story of how a happy community of bugs is waylaid by an interloper bent on breaking up their parties, and how the bugs work together to squash him "quite flat."The Fatal Lozenge, one of my favorites, is another series of stand-alone verses, each playing with a Gothic "type." The illustrations are priceless.The sight of Uncle gives no pleasure,But rather causes much alarm:The children know that at his leisureHe plans to have them come to harm.The Hapless Child is a tragic story of the Victorian "poor orphan" variety that culminates in the most melodramatic and fatal of ways, a dark revisiting of "A Little Princess" by Francis Hodgson Burnett.
4.5 stars!  EDWARD GOREY’S BEST WORKS JAM-PACKED INTO ONE VOLUME! After reading Edward Gorey’s morbid classic The Gashlycrumb Tinies (which is also surprisingly in this volume), I just had to read more of Edward Gorey’s works and I managed to pick up a volume of his works called “Amphigorey” and boy, was I amazed at the stories in this collection!In this volume, there is a collection of fifteen stories written by Edward Gorey and they include: 1) The Unstrung Harp2) The Listing Attic3) The Doub
1)	The Unstrung Harp2)	The Listing Attic3)	The Doubtful Guest4)	The Object-Lesson5)	The Bug Book6)	The Fatal Lozenge7)	The Hapless Child8)	The Curious Sofa9)	The Willowdale Handcar10)	The Gashlycrumb Tinies11)	The Insect God12)	The West Wing13)	The Wuggly Ump14)	The Sinking Spell15)	The Remembered Visit
After reading most of his works in this volume, I have a greater appreciation for Edward Gorey’s writing style as the majority of stories he had written were truly morbid and gruesome to read through!
In any case, these rhymes are insanely charming and bleak.An incautious young woman named VennWas seen with the wrong sort of men;She vanished one day,But the following MayHer legs were retrieved from a fen.There was a young woman whose stammerWas atrocious, and so was her grammar;But they were not improvedWhen her husband was movedTo knock out her teeth with a hammer.The Suicide, as she is falling,Illuminated by the moon,Regrets her act, and finds appallingThe thought she will be dead so soon.The Proctor buys a pupil ices,And hopes the boy will not resistWhen he attempts to practise vicesFew people even know exists.And of course the Gashlycrumb Tinies:A is for AMY who fell down the stairsB is for BASIL assaulted by bears...Q is for QUENTIN who sank in a mireR is for RHODA consumed by a fire...Just, like.....DAMN, dude.
Not great literature, but there's more than one way to earn five stars. This guy's artwork is just delightful, and his twisted imagination and black humor are superb. This is a collection of fifteen of his short books in one volume. If the people at my library knew what was in this book, they might rethink their placement of it in the young adult section. Some of it is quite grisly, and some of it is downright bawdy.
Edward Gorey's books are problematic for me. We go into the book store. I find one we haven't seen before and call the Office Kat over. We start thumbing through it, and pretty soon we are snorting with laughter, the tears are running down our cheeks and we are creating a disturbance in the store without intending to.For Chrismas, the Office Kat received a deck of cards by Gorey that are similar to Tarot Cards. They have completely and accurately predicted her day every time she has used them. :)
The story takes place in England but American details creep in, such as Mr E's favourite sports jersey and 'jelly' for jam.I can't be the first person to notice that Gorey used the word 'fantod' before David Foster Wallace (with whom it's now associated) learned his ABC.The Listing Attic - not terribly impressed by this long succession of limericks.
These show why his work has aged so well as - besides the mainstreaming of the gothic, he hits the right political notes for his likely, young ,readers now: there's a rhyme about a nasty Xenophobe (with an illustration indicating he's what we'd surely call a Racist); harsh treatment of children, and strong overtones of child abuse lurk with the other more U-rated horrors; and there's occasional LGBT subtext.
I am proud to share a birthday with Edward Gorey, so every February I am reminded to dip back into the amusing and macabre realms of this great artist.Visiting some old house as a child, wandering into a room where you're not allowed and peeking at dusty items, a set of old photographs scattering on the floor when you move some curious object on a high shelf, the black and white, pallid, mustachioed faces staring up at you with haunted expressions, you hear a cat hiss in the shadows, you leave the room nervously and in the next room discover a chest of antique weapons, which you proceed to play with and get injured by...
AMPHIGOREY is a graphic collection containing fifteen books written by Edward Gorey. This was simply a fun read for "blah" day! Contained here are:--The Unstrung Harp--The Listing Attic--The Doubtful Guest--The Object-Lesson--The Bug Book--The Fatal Lozenge--The Hapless Child--The Curious Sofa--The Willowdale Handcar--The Gashlycrumb Tinies (my personal favorite!)--The Insect God--The West Wing--The Wuggly Ump--The Sinking Spell--The Remembered VisitRecommended!
Yes, I discovered Edward Gorey on Tumblr.Yes, I bought this from a garage sale for one stinkin' dollar.Yes, this is totally up my alley.No, I do not condone the carnage of children.Yes, I enjoy the sinister, the gloom, and macabre.Yes, the Pacquiao-Bradley match is a conspiracy.
Edward Gorey certainly knows how to deliver depravity and sweet talk his audience at the same time!'Amphigorey' is a collection of 15 little fun art books that are extremely cultured, shockingly twisted and delightfully creepy, all the while absolutely appalling beyond belief.
Drawings of proper Edwardians and careful, polite commentary discuss such topics as child abuse, parental death, murder, hauntings, rotting bodies, perversions, ominous scary individuals, strange creatures, insanity, suicide, and religious excess.
Էդվարդ Գորին գրաֆիկական կարճ ստեղծագործություններ ա գրում.
հիմնականում բանաստեղծություններ՝ ուղեկցված համապատասխան նկարներով: Սարսափ ժանրին են պատկանում.
ամենից շատ սիրում ա վախեցնել փոքր երեխեքին: Օրինակ՝ մի հատ գործ ունի, որը այբուբենն ա սովորացնում (A is for alala...
էդ կարգի) ու որտեղ ամեն մի տառը ինչ-որ երեխու անվան համար ա ու պատմում ա, թե էդ անունով երեխեն ոնց ա մեռնում, նկարներով էլ ցույց ա տալիս: Ահագին օրիգինալ ու հետաքրքիր էր.
կարդացողը հաստատ չի փոշմանի:Հա, ու էս Amphigorey-ն էդ կարճ գործերի հավաքածուն ա: Նույնը մյուս Amphigorey-ները (Too-ն, Also-ն, Again-ը): Նենց որ արժի հենց դրանք վերցնել միանգամից, ոչ թե պուճուրիկները՝ առանձին առանձին:Մեկ էլ երեխեքից հեռու պահեք, հա: =)
This is a return reading of one of my favorite authors/illustrators on the occasion of his 88th birthday (see today's Google Doodle). Once upon a time we had every book of his (all first editions) and all signed. Now in retirement we have had to sell the collection, a great loss. We have kept, however, this paperback collection of his early works. Simply love his bizarre humor. Always gives me a grin and a chuckle.
I love how bizarre and haunting his works are.
This collection is perfect to be read on Halloween.
His stories sometimes starts very slowly and suddenly BAM!
It hit you surprisingly at the end.
Like you won’t guess that the way that it ended could be that bizarre.
In this collection though the stories are not all BAM!
But what amaze me is that how small and simple but not so harmful can bugged you A LOT and make you feel uncomfortable.I am a fan of Edward Gorey and will read more of his works :)
It contains fifteen previous "books":The Unstrung Harp, The Listing Attic, The Doubtful Guest, The Object Lesson, The Bug Book, The Fatal Lozenge, The Hapless Child, The Curious Sofa, The Willowdale Handcar, The Gashlycrumb Tinies, The Insect God, The West Wing, The Wuggly Ump, The Sinking Spell, The Remembered Visit.Most people are familiar with Gorey because of "The Gashlycrumb Tinies" (this is that alphabet of children who are killed in bizarre ways, A is for Alice who fell down some stairs, etc...) or at the very least because he did the intro for "Mystery" on PBS.
If you, like me, prefer to curl up in your dark, mucus-lined lair on sunny afternoons; if listening to Joy Division is your idea of a rousing bout of good cheer; and if your great love of children, like mine, extends to cartoon depictions of them being felled by accidents and homicide, then this is your book.
Worlds populated with Edwardian figures, kidnappers, malevolent insects, tortured scribes, croquet, straw boaters, starched collars, children neglected, children starved, children skewered, smothered, smooshed, and run down by Model Ts, other impending and ostensible catastrophes drawn with either prose or singsong poems or even mute wordlessness: yes please!
An amphigory is a nonsense verse or composition.The stories and poems were very troubling and I did a fair bit of laughing out loud.Children meeting horrible ends,frightening monsters,human and otherwise.What is wrong with me.When I read The Unstrung Harp I had two thoughts.The writing is remarkably original and this sure seems a lot like Monty Python.Right on both counts.The artwork is beautiful in a grim,nightmare inducing way.I looked on the internet and...THERE IS A GOREYSTORE!Time to decorate.Also;a crapaud is a toad,bleu means blue.You're welcome.
I loved this! I was introduced to Gorey through his illustrations for John Bellairs’ books back when I was in fourth grade, but I had never actually read any of his own stories. “Amphigorey” is a great Gorey starter — and of course my favourite book ended up being “The Gashlycrumb Tinies.” Deliciously unsettling artwork and nonsensical stories make for a great combination.
Meanwhile her Victorian family "grew sick with apprehension, Which a heavy tea only served to increase"12)The West Wing - a wordless 30 picture work; each appears to show something spooky in a room - a shadow of a levitating woman; a ghostly face peering through window; handkerchiefs flying...) There's no narrative or story, but I found it grew on me the more I looked at it.13) The Wuggly ump - in colour and definitely aimed at kids, the story of three good little children, weaving daisy-chains and eating their bread and milk; but the Wuggly Ump has left his lair and is headed their vway.14)The Sinking spell - not one of the best but quite entertaining tale of a creature (whom we never see) descending into the house of a Victorian family15) The Remembered Visit - not a funny story, but rather sad and beautiful tale of a little girl being taken to visit an elderly gentleman...Her recollections of the event: topiary, his not wearing socks...and later her guilt at an unfulfilled promise...Buying Amphigorey is the best value way of acquiring a whole collection of Gorey works.
I've wanted to read an Edward Gorey since I got Christmas cards one year with his illustrations.
Some are for children (and thus are weird) -- "The Bug Book" (which is totally racist btw) and "The Wuggly Ump." These are terrible.Some are for writers -- "The Unstrung Harp" should probably be read by every writer and starts off this collection in any interesting way.
It's the perfect start to the collection.My favorites are "The Hapless Child" and the A-to-Z stories that could be for children - if you wanted your children to have nightmares.
In reading the 15 tales in Amphigory, I thought they were quite poetic, in a Monty Python sort of way.I struggle to describe Edwards Gorey’s stories and basically can only sum it up with two phrases, ”hmmm, wonder where this is going,” and ”I did not see that coming.”Some call his ironic and offbeat humorous stories literary nonsense, but I just call it pure genius.
How did he get in the unused room on the third floor?"If you are a fan of British humor than I believe you will quite enjoy the works of Edward Gorey, despite the fact he was born in Chicago and never visited Britain.
My sister is responsible for finding this odd, perplexing, entertaining treasure in the stacks of the old university library in our home town.
Boy, did she find one.Those who believe they are unfamiliar with the prose and verse works of Edward Gorey (aptly named: his style is like Poe with outlandish humor--or, perhaps, more like Lewis Carroll's extensive dark side) will still recognize his illustrations.
Droll and faintly spooky, his verse and stories will entertain older children and most adults for quite some time to come, I hope.If you admire Tim Burton, you will most likely enjoy Gorey's work.
In fact, one of the reasons I read the book was to find out what kinds of stories would come from a mind that produced this art style.
I imagine Gorey's interpretation of that character would be different from the Internet's.Now that I've read it, I don't know what to compare it to for a fair rating, so I gave it 5 stars because I liked it and he's sort of in his own class (or if he's not, someone please point me to others).
I'll probably read his other collections at some point.If anyone likes soundtracks for their reading, I made a Pandora station for music I thought would fit Edward Gorey.
