https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/765590.The_Bremen_Town_Musicians
This story was so funny that it was sheer delight when I was a child.
I liked this book a lot! It was so cute and funny. I liked how each animal felt like their purpose was ending, but when they all got together and worked to be happy, they each turned out to be with each other and not alone!
CIP: "While on their way to Bremen, four aging animals who are no longer of any use to their masters find a new home after outwitting a gang of robbers."A small group of barnyard animals join together after being cast away by their owners with the hopes of making a future as a band of musicians, with unpredictable results.
The message of perseverance is subtle but important, and fact that the animals are being cast away by their owners can lead to interesting conversations with youngsters about animals and our throw-away society.PRW gave this book a favorable review, giving illustrator Zwerger kudos for her beautiful work and translator Bell credit for sticking to the original story.
Booklist gives this translation of the folktale a favorable review.
Jacob rated 5 stars, Ellie and mom 4 stars. Cute story about the importance of working together.
Bremen Town Muscians is a funny story about faith and partnership defeating evil.
Genre: traditional fantasyGrade: Early Primary This is a very interesting book. The Bremen Town Musicians is a story that teaches us that just because someone is old doesn't mean they are useless and should be killed or ignored. I really like how the plot doesn't end the way you think it would. I thought all the animals would make it to Bremen but instead, they found a place to live where they won't be killed because of their age. I would recommend this.
The ass stoke the show.
The Bremen Town Musicians is an engaging story about a group of elderly animals that are no longer wanted by their owners.
They run away and stumble upon a house of robbers.
The animals prevail and a lesson of team work, perseverance, and vitality emerges.
I would recommend this book.
I think it is engaging for children because the animals beat the bad guys in a rather humorous way.
This book would be great for teaching author’s message.
I think this book could also start some deep discussion, such as how we treat elderly people and even animals.
The Bremen Town MusiciansZwerger, LisbethThis is a retelling of the story of the Bremen Town Musicians with beautiful pictures. This is a retelling of a story about finding ones place. With strong indication of  finding a family to belong to. Its the idea of music to connect people whom are represented by the animals. This is a traditional German Folk tale. The book allows children to connect to the original story.
Every time I seen a new Lisbeth Zwerger book I know I'm in store for such a visual treat and this is no exception. It's another beautiful reinvention of a classic story full of gorgeous color, exciting compositions and unique details. Her pictures are so light and delicate but she always embraces the darker sides of her tales which gives the illustrations such a unusual and particular depth. I particularly liked the sequences of the animals' grim imagined fates before they hit the road.
Great stuff! The Bremen Town Musicians was adapted into a musical play that was translated into Portuguese by Chico Buarque. The musical Os Saltimbancos, later released as an album (which I bought and lost!), is one of the greatest classics for children in Brazil. I also had the great opportunity to play that musical at school as one of the chickens and that unfortunate moment was captured in one single pic that now decorates my parent’s apartment! Like I said, great stuff!
I still can't quite grasp why my students love this story so. Just like last year, it was a big hit. It seems they really draw out the comedy which is funny since when I read it for Folk & Fairy Tale class, I thought it was boring.
Yet another version of this classic tale. The start up was actually pretty good, getting the band together. I especially liked the animals riding on each other backs. But then the back half of the story was just okay.
Not one of Zwerger's best titles, but nonetheless an engaging and beautiful book. The rendering of the animals is especially well executed: Each beast looks to have seen better days, but Zwerger is able to show there's still the spark of life (and later mischief) beneath the mange.
Another one of those tales from the famous Grimm brothers
I really loved this book, its one of my favourites by brothers Grimm.
Classics
Come on: who doesn't like a story about a random group of animals taking out the bad guys?
Loved it! I can't believe I've never read this before.
This was quite an interesting story. I loved the illustrations and the way the typesetting was printed.
The telling and illustration are kind of formal, but I think it works in this telling that is just as much about appreciating the elderly as it is about outwitting thieves.
