https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29986740-a-merciful-death
I have been wanting to read this author for some time now and was so excited when I got this chance.Mercy Kilpatrick ran away from her hometown, Eagles Nest, Oregon fifteen years ago and now comes back as a F.B.I. agent.
Mercy notices a frightening connection to these murders that happened shortly before she ran away from home.
It was a very good page turner.I want to thank Netgalley, Kendra Elliot and the publisher for the copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
This is the1st book in the Mercy Kilpatrick Series and the first that I have read by this author, Kendra Elliot.The plot dragged on a bit too much for me.....I felt bogged down with all this information about the "preppers".........hell, these are pretty weird characters........and the build up was so slow...slow.
The romance between these two is almost nonexistent and there's a bit of a romantic interlude near the end of the book...but nothing amazing.We are introduced to a lot of characters in this book, which is obviously to set up for future books.....I liked Eddie, Mercy's FBI partner, Rose, Mercy's sister and Kaylie, Mercy's niece.Overall this was not a bad book and I am going to read the next book in this series and see how it progresses for me.
Depressing start to new series.FBI special agent Mercy grow up male dominant prepper family. Fifteen years ago was forced out of her home, left and made her way in this world. Investigating stolen guns and murders. Tragedy of what happened to her and blind sister Rose always in her mind. Rape and murders of Rose's two friends from fifteen years ago was never solved either. Depressing story.
although she hasn't seen or talked to any of them in 15 years, when she was forced to leave and told to never return.Someone is killing survivalists in their homes and stealing their many weapons.
But the broken mirrors in each of their homes have been shattered, bringing to mind an unsolved mystery from Mercy's past.Police Chief Truman Daly has a personal interest in these killings ...
his uncle was one of the survivalists killed.Working together, Truman and Mercy are trying to deny their growing attraction.
And he's a lot closer to Truman and Mercy than they think.I have read many of this author's books and never been disappointed.
I've read all of Kendra Elliot's books and was super excited to start her latest series.
Mercy Kilpatrick, the protagonist, first appeared in Targeted, the fourth book in the Callahan & McLane series.Mercy left her hometown 15 years ago and hasn't spoken to her family since.
Local police chief Truman Daly has a keen personal interest in the case, as one of the murdered men was his uncle.
When Mercy finds some similarities to events that happened 15 years ago, she is forced to reconnect with members of her family and has to trust Truman with details of her life that she has kept hidden.
They plan to to be ready for a catastrophe, which they call 'the end of the world as we know it.' As the book opens someone has killed two preppers and stolen their weapons.Sheriff Truman Daly, the nephew of a prepper victim, is determined to find his uncle's killer and calls in the FBI.
Mercy is understandably anxious, knowing she'll see family members and old acquaintances in Eagle's Nest.
Finally, the romance between Mercy and Daly was too treacly for me.😕I understand this is the first book in a series, but I don't know if I'll read any more.
She’s sent to investigate a series of murders of preppers (survivalists) in Eagles Nest, a town where she grew up before leaving her family at age 18, never to return.
Mercy’s family were also preppers.
She’s a tough gal.
She might not be in communication with her family, but their philosophy still colors her beliefs.
This one has everything I love - a decent plot with no improbably turns, good well developed characters, a bit of romance.
I listened to this and the narrator, Teri Schnaubelt, does a good job.
I have already bought the audio version of book two in the series.
Didn't feel it...Maybe the next?..P.S. It pissed me off they killed Levi, h's brother. What for?..
I have read a number of Kendra Elliot books and really like her writing style and A Merciful Death may just end up being my favorite book of hers to date.
I started reading it this morning and had a really enjoyable day reading it.I really liked all the characters (both good guys and bad guys) in this book.
Again, I truly believe the best characters are not perfect.I really, really liked that although there is a love interest between Mercy and police chief Truman Daly it takes a back seat to the murder plot.
I'm looking forward to book #2 in the Mercy Kilpatrick series.
They are aided by the Eagle’s Nest police chief, Truman Daly, whose uncle is one of the murder victims.Having grown up in Eagle’s Nest and having a family full of survivalists, Mercy is very familiar with the area and with the prepper lifestyle.
Her bright spot is her blind sister, Rose, who is happy to have Mercy home though it’s not all sunshine as they have a shared trauma from their childhood and being together again awakens some old ghosts.As the investigation progresses, Mercy starts to see similarities to a series of murders from the past - from when she was a teenager.
FBI Spc Agt Mercy Kilpatrick was raised a prepper but she has kept her past a secret from all who know her.
She moved away from Eagle's Nest and has had no contact with her family since.
She has been called back there for a case assigned to her because she is from that area but she is not sure how her family will take seeing her again.
It seems that someone is killing preppers and it may be tied into why Mercy left all those years ago.
Great read.
I would like to thank the Publisher and Net Galley for the chance to read this ARC.
Good startMercy returns back to her home town as an FBI agent to work on a crime but when she gets there the crime seems to mimic an old crime that happened when she was in her teens.
The only problem is Mercy hasn't been back since she left home when she was 18 years old and her siblings have a secret so she will have to confront them.
Things start to come together and there are other things start to come out as well will this ruin what Mercy has build?
Will have to continue to see what happens next.
A Merciful Death is the first book I've read by Kendra Elliot.
It's the first book in the Mercy Kilpatrick series.
For starters, the killer has stolen all of their weapons from the crime scenes.As Mercy and police chief Truman Daly investigate, they discover a small connection to two previous murders from 15 years ago.
The secret that has caused her family to shun her and her reason for leaving Eagles Nest.I enjoyed this book.
Police Chief of Eagles Nest.
A Merciful Death is not as twisty as I prefer a book to be.
Kendra Elliot gave readers a person who isn't damaged but struggles between the way she was raised and how she wants to live her life.Kendra created characters who have flaws, are imperfect but are trying to do what is right with the knowledge they have.
You could feel the family struggle with the dynamics create a real world feeling.The mystery was a little questionable and at times not as believable as many other of Kendra Elliot novels but the dynamics of the individual characters and the real life struggles some of them face made this novel a 5 star read.Advance Copy from netgalley
Somehow you just know, from the first pages, that a book is going to be good.
This romance unfolds gradually, and the main characters get to know and respect each other.Mercy is an FBI agent sent to assist in the investigation of three murders where large amounts of weapons were stolen too.
Now she has to face not only her past, and her secrets, but a murderer.Truman has been the Chief of police in Eagle's Nest, Oregon for only 6 months.
Preppers, Sovereign Citizens and Militants are some of the groups that occupy the area around Eagle's Nest and they all like their weapons.
This is the first book in the Mercy Kilpatrick series and my first read from this author.
It was a compelling read and I could not put the book down.In a small rural town in Oregon, Mercy Kilpatrick grew up as a prepper.
After conflict with her family, Mercy was shunned from the family and forced to leave.
Fifteen years later, preppers are being killed in her home town.
FBI special agent Mercy is put on the case and returns home where she is forced to face secrets that she tried to keep buried.
Looking forward to reading the second book in the series.
Almost 1800 people have read this book as of right this moment and it's rated at almost 4.5 stars.
After I finished this, I was a little surprised to find out that this was a romantic suspense.
I mean, I must have known that at some point because I picked this book and romantic suspense is my favorite genre.
but this wasn't the kind of romantic suspense that I'm used to, maybe.
Now this book wasn't badly written, it just read very dry to me.
The further I got into the book, it wasn't just the conversations that I found dry.
I like this author; and this was a good beginning to the series.
I had put off reading it for the longest because I wasn’t sure about the prepper storyline.
The twist I was expecting throughout the book didn’t happen until near the end; and didn’t bother me as much as I thought it would.
Seriously?The book was a solid 4 star read until the last third, when the plot started unraveling and my interest waned just a bit.
Looking forward to more of the series, though.
3.5 stars.The existence of preppers has always fascinated and saddened me in equal measure.
I've never read a book featuring this culture, so the entire premise was interesting and fresh.
The writing was easy to read, the MCs were easy to like, the mystery/suspense was just the right amount of creepy, and the romance was sweet.
I'm so happy that I found another author who has a lot of books to go through.
:)Trigger warning :(view spoiler)[ there is rape that occurs during the timeline of this story.
No graphic details are mentioned, but it does happen to one of the supporting characters (hide spoiler)].
**3-3.5 stars**
Our protagonist, Mercy Kilpatrick grew up in the tight-knit prepper community of Eagle’s Nest, Oregon.
A disagreement with her father, caused her to cut-ties with her family when she was eighteen.Mercy knows the small-town and folks in Eagle's Nest.
Only after the killer was revealed did I see the foreshadowing and clues peppered throughout the story.Threads involving Mercy, and her estranged family, were well developed, and added to the overall suspense.
Insight into preppers and the inner workings of their community kept me engaged.Mercy has secrets that the author slowly revealed allowing the reader to better understand her motives.
When things remind Mercy of earlier murders (15 years ago) she reopens the investigation in those cases.
How will all this affect her job with the FBI and her family relationships?" I could not put this book down.
I was not sure about the character of Mercy at the beginning of the book, but really liked her by the end.
The secondary characters (her family, her partner) are all very likable (except her father) and I hope to see more of them in other books in this series.
A great read for lovers of suspense, mysteries and FBI type stories.
A community of doomsday preppers, conspiracy theorists, and evangelical patriarchists near Bend, Oregon? Not for me! A mystery/thriller/romantic suspense novel set in such a location? Yes, please!Mercy is a compelling character and I love her romantic interest, Truman Daly. Though, I would've thought there would've been more killings/attacks in such a community. (Especially, as soon as FBI agents came to town!)I will definitely read more. I want to see more of Mercy, Truman, and Mercy's family. All this series needs is a dog.
The characters, the plot, the twists and turns, the suspense, all of it combines to make this story a gripping page-turner and I can't wait for the next book.A small town in Oregon.
The new interim sheriff Truman Daly knows his department is not equipped to handle these investigations and he's not shy about calling in the big guns, especially because his uncle was the first victim and he'll do whatever it takes to bring his killer to justice and make his town safe again.Enter FBI Agent Mercy Kilpatrick.
Someone has been targeting the community of preppers and stock piling stolen weapons in what could be the preparation for a domestic terrorism event.Eagle’s Nest Police Chief Truman Daly has a vested interest in the murders, his uncle was one of the victims.
Truman and Mercy join forces and in the course of the investigation it becomes apparent there are similarities and the recent murders have echoes from the past.
Both Mercy and Truman are trying to come to terms with their pasts, the damage done and events that have shaped them, bringing them to where they are.
Mercy basically tells Chief Daley it takes a couple of decades and plenty of family roots to be let into the inner circle of Eagle's Nest.Mercy should know she grew up in Eagle's Nest, but something that happened fifteen years ago had her leave and be shunned by her family.
Both parties act like they don't know each other.Mercy and Daley are working the investigation together.
Special Agent Mercy and Chief Daley look as though they could be striking up a romance, They both have secrets and baggage that they are hiding and want to keep it that way.
Personajes interesantes, inteligentes y reales y una trama original, muy original y muy bien fundada.Mercy no se parece a ninguna protagonista que haya leído.
:) Y trata a la protagonista como lo que es: una mujer capaz e inteligente; y la admira por ello… ¿Alguien da más?El romance es sutil, muy sutil.
Es una relación realista y madura, ambos se sienten atraídos y quieren pasar tiempo juntos pero el caso entre manos es lo importante y fundamental, así lo piensan y eso es lo que hablan, porque este es un caso de comunicación entre los protagonistas.
Así que no leas esta historia por el romance porque podría decepcionarte.Después tenemos el drama familiar.
A Merciful Death is book one in the Mercy Kilpatrick series by Kendra Elliot.
When the FBI realised the connection between the death of three senior men Mercy Kilpatrick returns to her hometown of Eagles Nest that she left fifteen years before.
Readers of A Merciful Death will follow the twist and turns in Mercy Kilpatrick and Truman Daly investigation.A Merciful Death first book I have read by Kendra Elliot.
However, for me, A Merciful Death starts off a little slow, and once I engaged with the plot, I enjoyed reading this book.
The readers of A Merciful Death will start to understand about preppers and the problems they have in the society.
3-3.5 it was t terrible, so what was missing?? More to come...
