https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233093.The_Cat_in_the_Hat
This "kids' book" is, in my opinion, a nightmare-quality horror story. Why, you ask? What's scary about a funny-looking cat? *shudder* Well, what's so scary about these cute things?(Well, there actually is nothing scary about that last one. That still doesn't make it any less of a nightmare.) Sometimes I have nightmares where everything goes wrong, but I am helpless to do anything about it. What's worse, the voice of reason is gone. Well, that pretty much sums up the plot of this book.  As a hor
This "kids' book" is, in my opinion, a nightmare-quality horror story.
Quick, somebody call Stephen King!Two kids are left alone on a dreary rainy day - which by the way is a perfect setting for a horror story.
Not to mention that, for a fish, seeing a cat is like you answering the doorbell just to greet a Grim Reaper.
Next, the terrifying delinquent Cat unleashes Things (perfect name for horror creatures) who wreck havoc on the house.
"Should we tell her The things that went on there that day?"
Just because the story is for kids does not mean it's okay for the writing to be subpar.
I like that at the end of this book, when the mother comes home and the text reads:Should we tell her about it?Now, what SHOULD we do?Well...What would YOU doIf your mother asked YOU?My daughter always looks up at me and says: I would tell you. But I don't believe her. I think it's quite possible that the Cat in the Hat has already been here, and she's just telling me what I want to hear.
Without a doubt one of the signature Seuss' books  THE SCHRODINGER'S CAT IS OUT OF THE HAT  He should not be here.  He should not be about,  He should not be here,  When your mother is out, It was a tale hard to rate,......and I imagine how shocked must be for many of you, when you notice my 3-stars' rate.Three stars?! For The Cat in the Hat?! The very tale that it’s an emblem about Dr. Seuss’ work?!Well, before calling the Zooks and Yooks to begin a war against me, let me explain my personal s

Book Review  Everyone's heard of SEUSS (Dr) (I hope). 4 stars to The Cat in the Hat, an adorable children's book full of little amusing pictures and rhymes.Kids love the absurdity. It's an opportunity for the reader to use different voices... to dress up... to be free and fun and just enjoy reading.Though it could be used as a way to teach kids about rhymes, as well as what's real and not real... my recommendation with this one is to just HAVE FUN! Act out all the scenes. Make it a fun Saturda
Book Review
4 stars to The Cat in the Hat, an adorable children's book full of little amusing pictures and rhymes.Kids love the absurdity.
to be free and fun and just enjoy reading.Though it could be used as a way to teach kids about rhymes, as well as what's real and not real...
Make it a fun Saturday experience with your kids, friends, nephews, nieces, cousins.
Teach kids to enjoy reading.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Thanks for stopping by.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
In honor of Dr. Seuss' birthday I post an annual review of one of his works.
Normally they fart sunshine and rainbows, but today we're going to spend a minute with the book that makes me want to .
.  I know this is a classic and it's Seuss and no one is supposed to blaspheme when it comes to his good name, but come on.
Two kids who are stupid enough to let a creepy effing CAT in their house only to nearly demolish the place obviously are not mature enough to be left home alone on a rainy day
In honor of Dr. Seuss' birthday I post an annual review of one of his works.
I know this is a classic and it's Seuss and no one is supposed to blaspheme when it comes to his good name, but come on.
Two kids who are stupid enough to let a creepy effing CAT in their house only to nearly demolish the place obviously are not mature enough to be left home alone on a rainy day.
Right, Ron????Anyfarts, happy Read Across America Day!
Read this to your kids.
Seuss's most cynical political work describes the cycle of every generation: first you hate the machine, then you rage against the machine, then you embrace the machine, then you become the machine.Sally and her brother, who, like Dostoevsky's sick man and Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man, will remain unnamed, join with the force of revolution, embodied by the Cat in the Hat. Together they recruit agents of change and chaos - the furious Things One and Two - to dismantle the oppressive world built by their parents.
I don't remember ever reading Dr. Suess (I'm sure I did, only it was SO long ago), so this just put me in such good spirits! I remember how giddy these made me feel, and the rhyming is just so whimsical, no books can compare to these. I'm collecting all of Dr. Suess's work and this was just such a classic, great place to start. I love the art and the story combined!
Ding dong,I can be a magician.I can be anything,But an alsatian.The illustrations! The uproarious juggles of the feline and the mess that he leaves about.Though the high-tech gadgets bailed the cat out but Sally and her brother should heed to the wise Goldfish in further editions :DA total riot for children with working parents and who just manage to not bring the house down - with or without the cat.PS : I am one such kid.
What else can be said of this all time children's classic except that it is as enjoyable to read as an adult? I have three boys, two grown now, and all three have listened to me read this to them and perhaps there was a while when I could have read it in my sleep (and may have!) If you ever go to Universal Studios theme park in Orlando, check out the Cat in the Hat ride. Good times!
All i've read this past week is children's books and I'm not even mad about it

What I like in this classic children's story is the illustrations and the rhyming which will be very entertaining to read for kids. I like the ending part where the children were thinking if they will tell their mother what happened while she was away. The lesson is very simple which is about honesty. But if we will see it in broader perspective, adults like teachers or parents who read this children's book to kids will also be reminded about it and to always practice it.
4 SOLD Cat in the Hat ★'s “The sun did not shine.
It was too wet to play.
So we sat in the house.
All that cold, cold, wet day.” The Cat in the Hat is probably Dr. Seuss's most popular children’s books he's ever created.
It featured a cat who wears a hat that is a troublemaker and he tries to show two bored little kids how to have fun on a rainy wet day when you can't play outside but it has disastrous results.
Cat makes mess after mess.
This story was soo funny and all the rhyming is so much fu
The Cat in the Hat is probably Dr. Seuss's most popular children’s books he's ever created.
It featured a cat who wears a hat that is a troublemaker and he tries to show two bored little kids how to have fun on a rainy wet day when you can't play outside but it has disastrous results.
This story was soo funny and all the rhyming is so much fun :) The rhyming makes for reading out loud very entertaining when reading it to kids.
“I know it is wet and the sun is not sunny, but we can have lots of good fun that is funny.”
Loved this one and I passed my love on to my sons. Unfortunately as they got older they enjoyed the movie more.
****This book has always given me the impression that Dr. Seuss is a master mischief maker. He has this smarmy Cat barge his way into these poor kid's house (when their mother isn’t home) and then he proceeds to make a colossal mess. It’s all very distressing. In fact, as a child, I don’t think I found this book amusing at all. It preyed on all my worst fears like being ‘home alone,’ having pushy strangers take control, and scary ‘clown-like’ accessories like monster hats. I much preferred Suess
He has this smarmy Cat barge his way into these poor kid's house (when their mother isn’t home) and then he proceeds to make a colossal mess.
In fact, as a child, I don’t think I found this book amusing at all.
There’s also a whimsical message that says, ‘quit being so uptight…things will work out.’ The movie Risky Business has the exact same story and the exact same premise with Lana being the Cat and the classic line, “Sometimes you just have to say, what the f%*#.” :DSo all in all, while I don't think this is the best kid's book, I'm rather fond of it as an adult.
Well what would you do if your mother asked you?   ME WHILE READING THISME AFTER READINGI swear I don't know why this made me laugh so freaking hard. I really don't. I mean the story was funny, the rhyming so fun, but it didn't warrant my hysterical outbursts. But I'm not surprised, I always find myself laughing inappropriately. For example; MY FRIEND SWEARS THE THINGS RYAN SAYS IN THESE GIFS ARE EITHER CUTE OR HOT. PHILLIPE FROM CRUEL INTENTIONS IS HOT MEOH STAHP.I'm seriously starting to th
ME WHILE READING THISME AFTER READINGI swear I don't know why this made me laugh so freaking hard.
I mean the story was funny, the rhyming so fun, but it didn't warrant my hysterical outbursts.
MY FRIEND SWEARS THE THINGS RYAN SAYS IN THESE GIFS ARE EITHER CUTE OR HOT.
MEOH STAHP.I'm seriously starting to think it's a disorder.But it did cross my mind, that the reason I find this funny is because I could relate to the story.
It reminded me of so many incidents during my childhood years when my mother would go out for a while, and I and my very spirited and fidgety brothers would turn the house into an amusement park.
I really can't stand this book. It's one of those my son had me read over and over when he was little. Seriously, what kind of mother leaves her young children home alone? Who is this cat? Why is he such a troublemaker? Is it okay that they do all that rotten stuff just because it all gets cleaned up before mom gets home? What kind of trouble will this brother and sister be getting into in their teens. This is a very disturbing book.
“The Cat in the Hat” was one of Dr. Seuss’ most popular children’s books ever created.
Dr. Seuss’ illustrations always stand out from other children’s books and the illustration that stood out the most was the image of Sally being pulled by one of the kite strings as Thing One and Thing Two are playing recklessly in the house.
This image also showcases that when the boy emphasizes that what the Things were doing was not fun at all, he shows Sally being forcefully pulled in by the Things’ riotous antics.“The Cat in the Hat” is known as the cult classic from Dr. Seuss and deserves this honor.
WrensReads Review:When your friend comes over with eight Dr. Seuss books, you read them.Everyone knows this one, it is probably his best work.Cat in the Hat. The Cat that comes over, ruins your house, gives your pet fish a heart attack and let's your kids do whatever they want because you aren't home. Lots of rhymes. Lots of funny. Lots of things that hop like a bunny.. I'm stopping. I am not a Seuss. I wish I was a Seuss. Then I could only talk in rhymes, which would be kind of fun. WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
I would recommend The Cat in the Hat to anybody.
Dr. Seuss wrote this book like poetry by having the lines rhyme with each other.
The story of the book is don't trust strangers; in this case the cat with the hat.
The cat brings a box to children at home while their mother is gone, and the cat ends up causing chaos with thing one an thing two.
It can teach children a good lesson on how to be responsible when their parents are not around.
The pictures in the book make it very enjoyable to read.
I love Dr. Seuss and recommend any of his books to children and adults.
Nunca he entendido porque este es el libro más popular de Dr. Seuss, si él tiene otros mucho mejores.Tampoco entiendo porque a los niños les gusta tanto.Es una historia muy entretenida y divertida. Que ayuda al vocabulario de los niños, por medio de la repetición de palabras y las rimas.Pero realmente no tiene un mensaje o moraleja. Inclusive el final me llega a molestar un poco, ya que cierra preguntándole a los niños si ellos le dirían la verdad a su mamá.Como si no decir la verdad fuera una opción (bueno eso viene de mi parte de madre sobreprotectora).
This was tongue tying. Too much so! Indy and I haven't read many of these, although he did ask for it off his brother's shelf. I was stumbling over my words, probably to try and get through it quickly.. this cat was too long! Made me feel tired! He's still quite cool of course. Just not for us at this reading stage. We have about ten others though on the shelf, so hopefully we will embrace them a little more.
At first, with his big French accent, I couldn’t understand my kid asking for “le chat in da at” but I soon deduced it. This story about making a major mess and then cleaning it up before mom gets home is beyond a classic. And still a favorite for my son. I heard there was even a part 2…
Suddenly, in strolls the Cat in the Hat. Stylishly dressed in a candy-striped stovepipe hat and oversized bow tie, the cat soon creates a whirlwind of misbehavior that the kids are at first powerless to halt.No child can resist this story and its inherent magic, for it embodies naughtiness and excitement beyond any child’s imagination.Kids on their own?
checkA stranger in the house?
But for sure, the continuous success of this book is more than just the delightful naughtiness.
The invention, the pace, the wordage are also timeless and can't be topped.Add to the mix Dr. Seuss magical and colorful illustrations and you have a hit warranty to make any child-and more than one adult-scream in delight.
Ha, I know that adding this book is cheating. But I just read a very funny review by a friend, which reminded me how much the kids and I enjoyed the movie of this. Even more fun than Horton Hears a Who. The latter is the highest Dr Seuss on my list, though, for its philosophical point of view.Personally I found the movie-Grinch rather scary. So, folks, if any of you find The Cat in the Hat scary at all, make a wide berth around watching The Grinch. He is sure to give you nightmares.
What Seuss has created using such imagination, with a particularly dynamic (both flamboyant but simple) and unique style of illustration, coupled with his verse rhythms and the use of repetitive but building and twisting phrases – all in an extremely and deliberately accessible way, is a series of works which are a fantastic visual and verbal feast, captivating both children and adults alike.For me the most memorable examples of Seuss’s work are: ‘The Cat in the Hat’ (along with its sequel ‘The Cat in the Hat Comes Back’) – For the wonderful creation of mischief that is the ‘Cat in the Hat’ ‘Fox in Socks’ – For the tremendously bizarre tongue-twisters‘Green Eggs and Ham’ – For the ever building and dynamic nature of the verse.

"no! no!make that cat go away!tell that cat in the hatyou do NOT want to play.he should not be here.he should not be about.he should not be herewhen your mother is out!" Well that was a pretty fast read lol.DR SEUSS I LOVE YOU!!
Прочла сыну книжку-классику для начинающих читать; оказалось: что она в стихах, что в ней лимитированное количество слов, что я до сих пор не знаю, как произносится фамилия автора.
