https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73095.Dream_a_Little_Dream
5 FAT stars!I basically stepped on a landmine here. You see, I’m scared of books where the hero is pining after his ex. But a dead ex AND a dead child? A nightmare.After reading Nobody’s Baby But Mine I just one-clicked this one and dove in. It turns out it’s a good thing I didn’t read the blurb. Had I read it, I wouldn’t have discovered this outstanding book. Not only did the subject matter NOT bother me at all, but it actually  blew me away .I won’t say more about this book except for two thin
Had I read it, I wouldn’t have discovered this outstanding book.
It took me longer than usual to read this book but not for the reasons you might think.
Let’s just say that reading this book can be compared to eating the world’s finest chocolate cake.
What do you do?You decide to eat read only a piece forty pages or so a day so that you can savor each piece word slowly and possessively and prolong the enjoyment for as long as possible.If you haven’t tried this author yet, I highly recommend doing it soon.
I swear, books in this series are getting better and better. Every next one I start I am like, wow! this is the best! And then I go to the next one and want to say the same thing about it. To be fair I have to say all of them are amazing. I can't believe it took me so long to start reading this series.It's a classic contemporary romance at its best. The story, characters, angst and all the feels... so wonderful. Everything perfect and so well written. I recommend to all of you who love good love story!
Five Heartache Mountain Stars.This is my third time reading this book. I loved it .... again. It is truly heartbreaking. Edward, bless his five year old heart will steal your own heart away. I adored him.Rachel, what a strong, brave heroine. Pain sliced through him. He'd been numb inside, just the way he wanted it but the two of them were cutting him open all over again ... Gabe, Gabe, Gabe ...Although this is part of a series, I really think it can be read as a standalone. It was great to catch

With each one of ther books she gives you a little ‘something’ that makes the story special.
For me Edward was at the heart of this story.
He was the precious son of Rachel Stone’s and the little boy that would help mend Gabriel Bonner’s heart.
It surrounded Rachel, Gabe and even Edward.
Rachel was the first to realize that in his own way Gabe, was adding a little happiness to her life.
His future would always come first.And even though something seemed to settle within Gabe he was limited to what he could offer Rachel and Edward.
Written July 9, 20154.7 Stars - Wonderful, touching, lovely .... simply greatThe last one for me to read in this lovely Chicago Stars series. 11:30 hrs audiobook narrated by the FANTASTIC Anna Fields.         Once again; I'm happydancingI'm not exaggerating, Susan Elizabeth Phillips is still one of the very BEST in this feel good m/f genre. *********************************************Dream a Little Dream from the Chicago Stars football 'world' is book #4 published 1998 and my seventh (and last
*********************************************Dream a Little Dream from the Chicago Stars football 'world' is book #4 published 1998 and my seventh (and last book - not read in order - standalones) in this fantastic series.
Our heroine is Rachel Stone a single mother with a lovely five years old boy, the über cute Edward (who wants to be called Chip...), just 10 single bucks in her pockets, old clothes and a broken miserable car.
Oh!!Dream a Little Dream is perfect if you love stories with big funny families and razy protective brothers.
5 STARS[image error] You know, I keep trying, but I cannot rate any of Susan Elizabeth Phillips’ books less than 5. It just isn’t ever going to happen. And each one I read suddenly becomes my favorite. And this one is no exception. Seriously, these books are FUCKING SENSATIONAL! And that is all I need to say about it. [image error] Rachel Stone is only twenty-seven and already the destitute widow of a dead crooked television evangelist. She is a public pariah, who has lost everything, her husban
You know, I keep trying, but I cannot rate any of Susan Elizabeth Phillips’ books less than 5.
Gabe has returned to Salvation after spending a few years in Mexico trying to drink away his grief.
But while pursuing this painful and useless task, he is faced with yet another unpleasant task… turning away the very famous, very hated, and very desperate “Widow Snopes.”[image error]
And even then there is a persistent little problem… named Edward.[image error]
Romance books don’t get any better than this.
”You’re not people Bonner, I’m not even sure you’re human.”
And I do love you, with all my heart.
Gabe and Rachel's relationship grew slowly and pain was involved considering their pasts, but in a SEP's manner, they do end up together.
Ethan was an ass throughout most of the book, but he was just protecting his brother.
Same with Cal. He was especially cruel, but he had less emotional maturity than either of his brothers.The best part of this book was that everyone had flaws and bad things happen, but in the end, good things also happen.
I also like having children and family as part of the story.
5 BRILLIANT STARSThis book is AWESOME and one of the best that I have read this year. I'm serious - Go read it if you haven't because it's that amazing. I love the narration, the characters (all of them), the story, the side stories, the way the author connects the dots - It was just the book that I needed and I'm so happy that I picked it up. *I listened to the audiobook.
Pero que maravilloso!!!!!!SEP me matas.Preciosa y emotiva historia. He pasado unos ratos de risa de esos que la SEP sabe darme.Me ha encantado!!!!
Overall it was an enjoyable read, but not going on my favorites shelf like I had hoped.Brief Summary of the Storyline:  This is Rachel and Gabe's story.
There are some funny moments, some suspenseful scenes, and some sexy times...and they get a HEA ending.POV: This alternated between focusing mainly on Rachel and Gabe in 3rd person narrative.
They have some good tension, chemistry, and scenes -- but not so much it takes away from the story.Descriptive sex: YesOW/OM drama: Yes (view spoiler)[The H does have some moments of feeling guilt over his dead wife and his moving on with the h.
Su vida gira por y para su pequeño hijo de 5 años (Edward), lo que hace que, a pesar de todos los problemas que van surgiendo, su actitud frente a ellos sea la de una luchadora.
Entre ellos comienza una relación difícil, tensa, porque tratan de preservarse individualmente, pero que va transformándose, con infinita paciencia y dulzura, en ese amor esperanzador, que cicatriza las heridas del corazón.Un punto importantísimo para destacar en esta historia, es la complejidad de la relación entre Gabriel y Edward (hijo de Rachel).
But what set this apart for me is that the author writes with an almost achingly sharp realism about the pain our heroine Rachel and, to a somewhat lesser extent, Gabe (I'm loath to call him a "hero" for reasons I'll delve into later!) are enduring.
After all, Gabe does occasionally do generous things despite acting like a jerk, right?
("I feel like a horny teenager" is about as close as our "hero" gets to expressing affection for the majority of the book.)But here's the dealbreaker for me: this guy is persistently and frequently AWFUL to Rachel's sickly and sad five-year-old son.
My heart bled for Rachel, Gabe and Edward and I lapped up the indulgent sweetness of Ethan and Kristy as well (their story was a lot more predictable...
And I loved both equally: Gabe and Rachel are the two tragic souls, each with heartbreaking pasts, who don't get along AT ALL in the beginning, but also find strength in the raw honesty of their dynamic.
This cover is all wrong for this book!!!
What the hell are the flowers and sundresses doing on the cover of this book???
Recommended for:  Lovers of well-written, well-developed characters who overcome adversity and find strength in one another.
Once again SEP surprised me big time.I still feel bad because I had not read anything from this author before, I adore her style so much now.Do you know what's so good about this series?
I know many have given 3 stars to the books in this series and I just don't understand it.
The romance is so good and real, but more important the plot is always amazing.In this installment we have a single mother arriving to her home town after suffering many injustices.
It is driving me crazy, in a good way,LOL.
Gabe wanted to kill himself and had a hard time after his wife and son were killed by a drunk driver.
I could better appreciate how Rachel reacted defiantly to her circumstances which nudged Gabe.
I enjoyed the secondary story about Kristy and Ethan.I think Susan Elizabeth Phillips is a wonderful writer.
I’m reminded of Sol Stein's advice to writers: “Imbue your heroes with faults and your villains with charm.” The characters in this story are a good example.
Rachel is homeless, no money, no job, and caring for her son.
Story length: 390 pages.
Leer a SEP se puede considerar un apuesta segura, pero este libro en concreto me ha gustado muchísimo, con toda la trama de fondo y la relación entre los protagonistas. Tierna, con algo especial... ❤️
Downtrodden and desperate, Rachel Stone returns to the town of her youth (whose residents her deceased TV evangelical husband conned and all but bankrupted) to find a lost 5 million dollars to raise her five year old son, Edward.
The secondary plot line is just as ridiculous and insulting.
Reverend Ethan Bonner (let’s not even discuss that the man hears the voice of God as three different celebs in his head) is as hypocritical as the lambasted TV evangelical, Dwayne.
Her controlling, misogynistic, hypocritical - but hey at least they’re good looking and great in the sack!
I struggled through the first part of the book because I could not handle how mean the townsfolk were to our heroine.
I didn't even like our hero too much because I really thought, given Rachel's dire circumstances, he was taking advantage of her.
Rachel represents the kind of heroine I love from this author.
She is smart, a little naïve, stubborn as a mule, and with fortitude beyond measure.
Again, like in her other books, the secondary characters are first rate.
I adored Kristy and Ethan's story as much as Gabe and Rachel's.
***FIVE STARS***My lovely friend Anna recommended this baby to me (view spoiler)[ Thank you for that Sweet Anna  (hide spoiler)], and I couldn't have loved it more.
Poor Rachel was treated horrifically by an entire town for crimes she was unjustly blamed for.
Destitute and emaciated, she couldn't get ahead, or get forgiveness from almost anybody in the entire town.
Gabe was truly a douche to Rachel in the beginning of this story, and his brothers were over the top obnoxious assholes to her, never cutting Rachel any slack.
This story was golden.
I totally recommend this baby.
Best of all even though we know going into this story that there will be a HEA ending, the ending felt completely genuine and realistic.Pluses:- Strongly related to Chicago Stars #3 in its setting but in little else.
Interesting struggles with realistic resolutions.- Great minor characters and minor romantic plot.Negatives:- Does not have much to do with the Chicago Stars and the football theme.
It is a heavier piece of fiction than some of the other Chicago Stars books.
It is really well written and has excellent characters and plots.
My favourite Chicago Stars book use to be #5 based on it's quirkiness but this book has taken the lead.
I loved this book!
I have never read a book by this author before and I feel like I've been really missing out!
I loved the writing, I loved the story, I loved that Gabe was the biggest asshole in the beginning (and for a good part of the book) and I loved that Rachel was one of the best heroines ever - strong, tough and smart - she was the perfect heroine.
I was not expecting for this book to make me cry but it did.
Little Edward <3 I really enjoyed this book and can't wait to read more by this author!
As great as I expected it to be!I started to expect great things from this author. And it continues to amaze me, never disappointing. I cried at this book like I haven't cried in a long time! And I absolutely adore the books that make me feel something.It's a great read, really worth giving a try!
Real life is way too busy to write a proper review, but I will say that I love this series. The heros are alpha, the heroines are strong and in this book, the little boy Edward brought a tear to my eye more than once. This is definitely a series I would recommend.
4.5 starsSome romance books are great to read but usually they don’t make much of an emotional impact because they are just so far removed from your own life experiences.
When these two characters meet for the first time it’s hard to imagine making a worse first impression.
All of these characters are so painfully real and their struggles are hard to witness at times because they’re so ugly, but it absolutely makes for a captivating story.
In case it interests you or bothers you, I feel the need to note that there are some Christian undertones to the book, though nothing too preachy, however this is definitely not a ‘clean’ romance.
4/5 Stars
Two words:  redemption & forgivenessA solid read...
3 stars.It's been quite a while between SEP reads for me hence why I picked this up off my TBR shelf last night.
After such SEP beauties as Match Me If You Can and It Had to Be You, Dream a Little Dream left me a little disappointed, to be honest.Despite such a promising storyline, the H/h didn't really capture my emotions and whilst I certainly felt for them in certain situations in the book, I found myself apathetic a lot of the time.
I couldn't even stack this into any of my GR shelves because I just didn't feel that it fit into anything!
Ovo je možda najsentimentalnija priča celog Chicago stars serijala. ♥
One, she has debts she has to pay, and, two, she has her 5 year old little boy to consider.
Gabe, brother to the H in Nobody’s Baby but Mine, is widower who lost both wife and child and is bullet away from committing suicide.A good story of redemption for both characters with plenty of snark and banter between the H and h.
The secondary characters are well done as well.
Smaller side plots include the sad tension between the H and the heroine’s 5 year old son, and the H’s other brother, a preacher that is having a hard time adjusting to his secretary’s new sexy look.
