https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61506.Art_and_Illusion
This book attempts to answer the question, if artists throughout time have attempted to portray the world 'realistically', why are there so many different styles?
Both add to his hypothesis that seeing is interpreting; that there is no way to portray exactly what is seen with no interpretation; and that art has developed the way it has to give us a possible interpretation that a paintin is realistic, and it does so through a series of tricks.An excellent book for someone interested in the theory of visual images, and it is pretty accessible, though a knowledge of art history is certainly helpful.
Really interesting, and easy to read (although a little too wordy at times). Also kind of fun. The book spans through the history of art, and even though the author highlights some of the major artists in each period and analyzes their art using different theories in visual psychology, he also does an in depth analysis of the viewer. I was especially interested in the sections about Klee and Durer. Kind of brings new insight to traditional ideas about looking at art.
There's no way I can do this book justice in a synopsis. But here goes...It's art history examined through the lens of cognitive science: what we see, how we process what we see, how we engage with what we see, and how that engagement becomes a language. Gombrich doesn't discuss every single art movement. (That book would go on forever.) But I really wish he had! His insights are fascinating and—more often than not—hit upon much deeper truths. One of those rare instances of a book that's both enlightening and a lot of fun to read.
Os rascunhos de Michelangelo não são arte abstraccionista à maneira dos abstraccionistas, são desenhos abstractos porque o têm de ser enquanto rascunhos, mas é o hábito de ver arte abstracta que projecta a visão de Malraux.Para além deste interessante ponto, faz-se uma história dos desenvolvimentos técnicos das artes pictóricas, por exemplo, quando os gregos e os romanos introduzem a capacidade de justapor cenas na representação, conseguindo uma ilusão de narratividade, de modo a representar as narrativas mitológicas.
A caricatura surge do modo como as correcções no rascunho podem acidentalmente forjar uma semelhança superior a uma que fosse deliberadamente desenhada: assim se conseguem detalhes fisionómicos que, por acaso, conseguem uma melhor representação de características exageradas e com efeito cómico.
PrefacePreface to the Second EditionPreface to the Third EditionPreface to the Fourth EditionPreface to the Fifth Edition--Art and IllusionRetrospectNotesList of IllustrationsIndex
It explores why there is such a thing as style and what Gombrich believes to be the extraordinarily complex riddle of style.
In this book, one looks at the imitation of nature, the function of tradition, the problem of abstraction, the validity of perspective and the interpretation of expression.
“Art being a thing of the mind, it follows that any scientific study of art will be psychology” –Max J Friedländer, Von Kunst Und Kennerschaft In this book one considers the question of what subjective imitations of nature tells us of truth.
It looks at introspection, and how this relates to one’s imagination, interpretation, style and uniqueness.
I am now seeking his other classic, The Story of Art. This book is for anyone, artist or not, who has ever contemplated a great painting or sculpture and wondered if art imitates life or vice versa or even found themselves curious as to the compulsion man has to create art.
310), "That power of holding on to an image that Ruskin describes so admirably is not the power of the eidetic; it is that faculty of keeping a large number of relationships present in one's mind that distinguishes all mental achievement, be it that of the chess player, the composer, or the great artist."As low key and "all hail, well met" as it is, this book is hard.
An erudite journey through the history of artistic representation.
The focus is on how artists have perceived the world and how they have strode to embody their perceptions.
Deeply philosophical when elaborating on the illusory nature of art.
It argues that the representation of the artist of the world will never match the infinite amount of information actually reaching the artist.
It touches on many subjects and time periods ranging from the art of Ancient Egypt to the Renaissance to Escher and Severini.
I highly recommend it for students of perception and illusion and the psychology behind art and how humans "see" the world.
On every thinking person's bookshelf, or should be
E. Liotard wrote his treatise on painting mainly to combat the prejudice according to which 'all good painting must be facile, freely painted and with fine touches.' He is prepared to admit that such a painting will look better from afar, but better, he thinks, is in this case only 'less ugly.' To read his polemics against the loaded brush, written as it was in 1781, one wonders why the technique of the impressionists struck the public as such a daring innovation.
But impressionism demanded more than a reading of brushstrokes.
It is without any support from structure that the beholder must mobilize his memory of the visible world and project it into the mosaic of strokes and dabs on the canvas before him.
Profound humanitarian work on painted art. Wordy, repeating, urges to dig out the meaning. In a way like classical German philosophy. I personally cannot say I enjoyed it, although no doubt it is a must read for people talking about art and painting.
It's a interestant book
This text gave me a solid foundation in understanding the psychology of art
Memory yes, reason no.It is funny how the poor man knows for certain how things were some two millennia before his parents began a sex life.
Of course, his rudimentary intellect believes the ancient were as perfect as a human can be in the failible status of a less than god being.I found interesting Gombrich's wonder why the Egyptians were drawing like that and not realist.
Zero understanding of how the body works.
For him psychology is in the most vulgare of senses meaning a mystic fuzzy concept that justifies his school master to be right and aestetics and his plumber an ignorant.Page 13 continues the pseudo reasoning along the same lines.
Parece una cuestión sencilla, que se explicaría sin problemas sumando logros técnicos.
Sin embargo, Gombrich recuerda que cada etapa de la historia está relacionada con un tipo de arte y esta relación no es casual.
la representación realista sólo comenzó a interesar a partir de una determinada época y de una determinada manera.
Esta es sólo una de las revelaciones que nos hace el autor, siempre de manera clara y amena.
Creo que este libro es una buena compra para toda aquella persona que esté interesada en el arte y en comprender los motivos que rigen la representación de la realidad.
Professor Gombrich's lesser known 'Art and Illusion' is, in my opinion, as seminal as his 'The Story of Art'; unlike its bigger sister, this text focusses on how perception of the physical world has been influenced, over the centuries, though I would say it zooms in on the last millennium of our civilisation, by our metaphysical understanding of existence.
p. 90 "language does not give name to pre-existing things or concepts so much as it articulates the world of our experience.
But this difference in styles or languages need not stand in the way of correct answers and descriptions.
The world may be approached from a different angle and the information given may yet be the same."p.
359 "The history of art, as we have interpreted it so far, may be described as the forging of master keys for opening the mysterious locks of our senses to which only nature herself originally held the key."need to re-read
A nice and sincere attempt, but Gombrich does not quite solve the issue he raises. Okay, he attacks and succeeds in relativizing (naive) realism. Styles and tactics of representation change from one period to another. Sure. But the real question is why a given system of representation changes to another--and this mechanism of switching is something I assume Gombrich himself recognized, struggled, but could not articulate well. At least not here. That is why this book fails in the end to account for history.
This was one of many books left behind when my girlfriend/roommate in Union Theological Seminary moved out. She had been a student at Barnard College and I imagine this was one of their texts. Likely, it constituted my introduction to theories of visual perception and may have been read in conjunction with Neale's course in psychology.
I was instructed to read this when struggling with visual perception in my psychology degree. It illuminated visual perception but it went on to do so much more - gave me a much deeper understanding of art.
Dem Buch fehlt sehr wenig, um fünf Sterne verdient zu haben. Sehr empfehlenswert, wenn man schon so weit ist, dass man sich fragt wie Gestaltungsabsicht, technische Möglichkeiten und Gestaltungswille in der Kunst interagieren.
In my opinion, the greatest book on psychology and art. Ernst Gombrich was a genius. Read this at University and I still refer to it.
Phew! Making my way slowly through. I do like it, but I'm not very consistent with it!
1/27/13 Book Review interview with Alain de Botton
The most amazing art book ever. Gombrich is a brilliant man and every artist should read it, especially those working with representational imagery.
Read this a long time ago and thoroughly enjoyed it. It helped to widen my mind.
Not Gombrich at his finest, some exciting bits of writing, but as a whole he's a bit unclear about the whole thing.
Good one!!!
Over 300 illustrations, most reproductions of painting, but only about a dozen in color in this edition. Most of them are just illegible smears of grays.
