https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/284720.At_Your_Command
I like the idea of this book.
I consider myself a deeply spiritual individual-I often question the faith I was brought up in.
I find information from other holy scriptures from other beliefs that appeal to me...this book speaks to that part of me, however I will say this-I have tried faithfully using this type of “prayer” and I do not find it “works”.
I don’t know if I’m doing it wrong or if I don’t have the faith of the “god within”.
I am open minded, but I have never seen that believing ardently in something you want will make it materialize.
Francis Bacon says - "Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested." This is a kind of book that should be chewed and digested, that is to say, it should be read wholly with diligence and attention. Now I'm in love with neville and looking forward to read more books of him. It feels like the new beautiful journey has begun:)
Love this kind of shit. Mind blown.
Interesting mindset book about taking responsibility for your life and taking action.
Thank God for audiobooks—finishing this very short and concise work by Neville was easy thanks to the reading by 'Giving Voice to the Wisdom of the Ages' on YouTube.At Your Command focuses on one core manifestation of Neville—anything can be achieved easily if you first drop all conditioning by going into the state of 'I Am'. Although Neville's favourite method in most works is the 'state akin to sleep', this book focuses on the 'I Am' method.This is a very quick and concise book on improving your life by the master of New Thought and Law of Attraction.
An actor-turned-mystic encountered a mystic-turned-mystic named Abdullah who fed him vague koan platitudes until he stumbled upon what was essentially the prototype for Law of Attraction, supported by out-of-context translations of Judeo-Christian scripture.The take-home is every time the Bible says "I AM", it's talking about consciousness, not God. So basically, our boy Neville is saying, "It's you! You just gotta own it, and the world is yours! You're God, dude!"Yeah, tell me something I don't know.
Hmmm, I don't know what to think.
Great readingThis book puts the scriptures in perspective in regard to who or what God is and is not. Recommend for anyone who wants to move away from the fear based Christian beliefs.
And this Law of Expression is backed with thousands of years of history of people doing just that.
If God has led you to pray for a desire on your heart, He's already delivered.
Give thanks for receiving it in the past tense.
Stop asking for things in the past tense and coming from a place of lack.
Feel the aftermath of your desire in your life to find reasons to be grateful.
If you can get your hands on a copy, this is a must-read for students of the Law of Attraction or those who have progressed to living life from divine inspiration.
This is a very clear, straightforward, and practical book into what is known as New Thought. I got a little irritated with the "Jesus" and "God" talk and the old fashioned language but what can you expect of a man from that time? The ideas he presents are very factual and it only takes some experiments with his works, or those of Dr. Christopher Hyatt or Robert Anton Wilson to prove this. Very good book and looking to peer into his others.
I would basically recommend anything written by Neville Goddard. He teaches us how to live a life of happiness. You don't have to be a saint and sinners are not excluded!His words written from 1940's onward are still 100% relevant to date.
Asumir nueva conciencia....Es tan grande e importante el tomar conciencia sobre el poder tan infinito que somos que no captamos o vemos en su dimensión lo que somos y lo que podemos SER
I received this book for free through Goodreads Giveaways.
A good reading!Buena lectura!
