https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228990.The_Illearth_War
Maybe it's just the intentional feature of making all the good guys so perfectly good and forgiving and nonviolent and understanding, but Thomas Covenant DOES NOT DESERVE IT.Therefore, I really want to see Lord Foul Bane corrupt every single one of those bastards solely for the purpose of rising up and smiting that worthless son of a bitch, the Ur-Lord Thomas Covenant.If it wasn't crazy enough that the Rape-Child of TC loves her Rape-Father so much that she summons him from our world to save their cut-out-heaven, she thinks she's in love with him and throws herself at him.Yes, she's his daughter.Not only does every character in the Land have no more dimensionality than a piece of toilet paper, but their insane levels of acceptance, even when a rage-filled father goes after TC or when the only true hero of the tale attempts to smite TC across his head, no one gets his just deserts.
Hile Troy, the new leader of the Lords' army, is a man who claims to be from Covenant's world.
So we know what Covenant does not: the Land is real.Troy accepts the Land, blesses it (for he was born without eyes, but now can see), and does everything he can to help the Lords defeat Foul.
It's just the sort of alluring yet pathetic logic that Covenant fears as a pathway to despair and madness.After the introductions of the first part, the book is split between Troy's war with Foul's army and the quest for one of the hidden wards of knowledge and power that the Lords believe can help turn the tide of battle in their favor.
But although Thomas Covenant held the legendary ring, he didn't know how to use its strength, and risked losing everything...."I’ll admit that book 2 is an improvement over book 1, but it’s a grudging admission.
High Lord Elena wastes time “massaging the brows” of upset men, instead of giving them a swift kick and telling them to get over themselves.
Especially since Covenant and Troy both really need to get over themselves.
The people of The Land are sheep-like in accepting that Covenant’s ring accords him special treatment and in placing their faith in him and in Troy without any suspicion or any real discussion.
This is being done before, nothing new here, move along.The good news is that around half of the book it is told from another person's POV which means we do not read about Thomas Covenant being leper outcast unclean on every page; in fact I only encountered this particular description only twice in this book.
The end of the book redeemed itself when one of the characters FINALLY named real virtues of Covenant: selfish, mental leper and coward being just some of them.
For me it was really worth reading the whole book just for this scene.
A constructed language and use of words is a powerful way to tell a part of the story without detailing everything.BUT:Donaldson does all these things so badly.1) the anti-hero needs some internal logic.
But TC - our protagonist is simply something the writer brings out to be inconsitently mean whenever another ten pages of incoherent dialouge is needed.2) In a satirical or deconstrutivist way, using superbly obvious names on everything can add to the surrealism.
And a quest, a journey is normally a simile for an internal jorney of the protagonist, and even when you want to kill off that concept, you cant just put in 200 pages of drivel to prove that being on a quest doesn't mean anything.
As a fan of Stephen Donaldson’s trilogy ‘the second chronicles of Thomas Covenant’ I was naturally keen to also read the first trilogy that started it all, being ‘the chronicles of Thomas Covenant: the unbeliever’ with this book (the illearth war) being the second volume following on from Lord Foul’s bane.
Comparable to Tolkien at his very best I cannot enthuse and praise Stephen Donaldson highly enough, for his work is truly sublime and inspirational which many authors of today can only dream to reach similar heights.
However, I immediately jumped into Tolkien, and afterward, Donaldson.The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant are as different from Tolkien's world as almost any SFF (think Jordan, Martin, etc).
I have always thought this story had more depth than Tolkien (not to knock Tolkien - he's the Godfather of SFF, and I love his books), seemed more...adult?
Maybe this was because of the vitriol of Covenant; Hobbits don't stomp around muttering "Hellfire and bloody damnation," no matter how fiery and dangerous Mordor became.To sum up, The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant were not my first foray into fantasy fiction, nor were they my last; but they are one of the most influential series of novels to my evolution as a reader, and something I can always reread with as much wonder as the first time.
Sometimes a good man does ill because of the pain in his soul."This is the second book in the Thomas Covenant series and takes place when Thomas is summoned once more to the Land.
The story takes place not only from Thomas' point of view but also from the point of view of Hile Troy, the Warmark of the Land and also someone from Thomas' world.
Troy is a much more positive person, which seemed to balance the story out a bit rather than just hearing the whole thing from the doom and gloom of Thomas Covenant.
In Donaldson fashion he took 5/6 of the book telling the story of how everyone got to where they are.
Donaldson's strength is his ability to tell a story, of personal anguish, selfishness, and other very human emotions.
His weakness is his inability to tell a story with any real action in it.
But even this made little sense, that these powerful and wise beings would chose such an end.
BUT I can't stop myself from wanting to see how it ends.
The concept and story have me hooked.
Thomas is back in THE LAND, though he continues to refuse to believe it's real and continues to cry (or even wail) woe is me, life is awful.
In so doing he drags his feet and causes consternation, confusion, and frustration all around.You know if I'm in a dream, even if I'm sure I'm in a dream I usually participate and don't run around in the dream refusing to participate...oh well.
I "felt" I had to finish them (I was reading them with 2 other people), but I don't think I can be said to have "enjoyed them".
I'm about to move, so I am going through my books and deciding which will come with me and which will ... stay in a local charity shop.This entire series will soooooooooooooo stay right here. It sure has to be among the worst, most boring and direst fantasy spectacles I have ever had the misfortune to buy and read. I hated this 15 years ago, and my feelings haven't changed. Except that these days I also find it terminally overwritten.
He has no one to care about him, but when his ex-wife calls him – the one thing he’s been fantasizing about – he stupidly refuses to speak and then trips over the phone cord and hits his head.Hile Troy is a different matter.
A different author might have said that Covenant’s arrival to the Land triggered the events he did because that’s just the way it happened, but near the end of the book Covenant begins to realize that Lord Foul orchestrated his arrival for just that reason.
I can’t say I’m looking forward to seeing where this goes, but there’s eight more books in the series so I’m sure there are many more details of the Land left to explore.
If he did, he would soon come to resemble Hile Troy -- a man so overwhelmed by the power of sight that he could not perceive the blindness of his desire to assume responsibility for the Land.
And if he succeeded, he would never again be able to bear the numbness of his real life, his leprosy.Okay, so couldn't you just kill yourself at that point, if it was truly so difficult to bear?He knew lepers who had died that way, but for them the death was never quick, never clean.
Usually, the second installment of a trilogy – be it books or movies – is the strongest.
There are several shortcomings in THE ILLEARTH WAR of three books.First is the introduction of Hile Troy.
For as large a role as he played in this second book, the reader finds Hile Troy to be an enigma.A book short on character development ought to have epic battle scenes or something that creates great peril for the heroes.
But as this second book ends, Donaldson doesn’t hint at or tantalize the reader with what those consequences will be.Nor does the book advance Donaldson’s character arc.
O contraste entre os dois mostra o contraste de duas visões de Escolhidos na literatura de fantasia, e nesse ponto o livro ganha uma qualidade de metanarrativa muito interessante!Mais uma vez, o foco é a alma de Covenant e o modo como ele lida com diversos conceitos e crençãs antagônicas, tentando descobrir uma forma de navegar por entre conflitos éticos complicados, como a sua culpa pelo violência que cometera no primeiro livro e o desespero de se ver cobiçado por sua própria filha, enquanto luta para preservar sua sanidade.E com Hile Troy servindo de espelho, a saga fica ainda mais complexa em termos de moralidade, mesmo que os seres da Land sejam quase como arquétipos de moralidade tolkeniana, com bem e mal claramente definidos.O livro se divide nessas duas narrativas, com a saga de Hile Troy se transformando em algo épico e desesperador, que, acredito, serviu de modelo para o Steven Erickson escrever o melhor livro da saga Malazan para mim, o Deadhouse Gates, principalmente na narrativa do Coltaine e o seu Chain of Gods.
Of course this means the times when he's the focus of Hile Troy - the central alternate POV in this book - his actions are unexplained and often made no sense to me.In terms of the story itself, it's a lot more engaging and exciting in places, with stuff happening throughout rather than a slow build to the finale with odd other events scattered throughout.
I often find that the second book in a trilogy is the weakest as it serves as setting up for the big finale rather than being a story in its own right, but not so this time.
Unfortunately, the second book fails to deliver and has put me off reading book 3.It's off to a good start and the build up to Covenants summoning and the transition from his world to the next sets a good foundation for the rest of the story.It is a shame that the next 150 pages consists almost entirely of war council meetings, almost as if the writer was stalling to actually move the plot forward.The next phase of the story takes up more than a third of the book and comprises entirely of a long war march led by a character new to the series.
When I first read this series many, many years ago, I recall that 'The Illearth War' was my favourite instalment.
I had forgotten much of the detail, but rereading it has been a joy.The story itself focuses upon the Lords' response to Lord Foul's great assault upon the Land, as his gigantic army, twisted and empowered by the Illearth Stone, marches to destroy them.
He is a very unlikable person, but a well written one, which is just as well as much of the story of the war is told from his perspective.Covenant himself is well served in this volume.
In this installment Covenant returns just a week later in real time, to find that 40 years has passed in the Land.
Lord Foul is on the move and High Lord Elena has summoned him in the Land's time of need.Part of the problem with the first installment, 'Lord Foul's Bane', was that Covenant was so bitter and unsympathetic.
This time Covenant is basically absent for the middle section of the book, giving the reader some respite from Covenant's perpetual dourness.
In the first book Donaldson tried to make it ambiguous whether the Land was 'real' or just a creation of Covenant's fevered mind.
If some of the characters in this book thought more about the problem in hand instead of feeling sorry for themselves is would all be much better.Another problem I have with these books is the pace, throughout the majority of the book things seems to be dragged out much more then required but then when you get to the end it all seems to come to a very abrupt end, as if he is running out of time so finishes it off quickly.I like the idea of the story, I'm just not sure that it's been executed in quite the right way.I am yet undecided if I will carry on with this series of books.
This series is really starting to grow on me.
Thomas Covenant, while still harshly cynical and sarcastic, actually begins to show his empathetic side and becomes at least tolerant of other characters.
His growing relationship with the High Lord Elena gives his character much-needed depth.
I really enjoy how Donaldson is paying homage to Lord of the Rings through his high fantasy quest-style novels.
What sets this series apart is the careful balance of this world and that world.
Thomas comes from our world, and is summoned unwillingly (back) to the Land.
There's no option to rate these books with negative stars. Antihero? Fine. Can be fun. Elric of Melnibone is a terrible person, but fun to read about. Covenant was worse than contemptible. Like, Hank-Pym-and-a-can-of-Raid contemptible.Hated the character. Hated the book. Kinda hated the author for subjecting me to his awfulness, but I know Donaldson has done other stuff.I suppose some people might say that a novel that inspires such strong emotion is a success. Those people are mistaken. This series sucked.
This is book two in in Donaldson's original 1977 Thomas Covenant The Unbeliever trilogy. What drew me to the series is that Covenant is somewhat of an anti-hero with real-world flaws. The Illearth War, like it's predecessor, featured excellent writing but the plot was a bit slow-going and too often delved into Tolkien-esque world building for my tastes. Definitely will read the third book as I'm invested.
Well, life took over once again and it took forever to read this book. Thomas Covenant actually took a backseat for most of this novel. He wasn't as whiny as in the first book but still as creepy. The scenes between him and his daughter walk a very incestuous line. As for the story, it was mostly about war... long scenes of war. This ranks up there with travel for me - it just goes on and on and on when reading about it.
I picked this up a year or two after the first novel. I had been sufficiently perplexed to ask my friend the conditions under which Covenant's magic activated, and he spelt it out factually.It was all very clear, yet unsatisfying. I read the book, and this time I fell into it. It was a different kind of fantasy, with allegoric hints that I still couldn't comprehend.
Or the story of how Thomas Covenant didn't change and the reader finds out that no, the cliché world building, inexplicably fanboyish attitude of the fantasy world's inhabitants toward Thomas and the unsufferable parody of an anti hero are just that, rather than some intriguing flower blossoming in slow motionA waste of perfectly good trees
While sometimes slow reading and you get bogged down in the ramblings of the main character these are very good books. The fantasy world Donaldson created is unique and rich in characters. Very recommended
Noooo! Lord Foul is back because the idiot didn't kill him in the first novel. Who didn't see that happening?!
It says a lot about this series that the best thing you can say about the main character is "Well, at least he didn't bang his own daughter."

