https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/965956.Andorra
It is a parable of all people who are forced into the role of being different, so that others can feel that they belong.I remember the performance, and our strong feelings against the "justifications", when the village people explain why they are not to be blamed for the tragedy, even after the main character, Andri, is deported and killed.
Nobody would be fooled or bullied into accepting ostracism as a normal state of mind.I remember that we were appalled at the very essence of prejudice shown in the play: Andri is not really a Jew, but identifies with their fate after having been pushed into the role by the behaviour of the villagers.

The actors at points speak to the audience as the accused or a witness from the dock might speak to the jury, but in so doing we as the audience are implicated too as participants at least in judgement.The other Frisch I've so far read is Homo Faber I don't see a great connection - a slight common classicism maybe in the paired down sense of tragedy and foreboding (view spoiler)[ perhaps there the engineer tries to make a graven image of himself, but perhaps that is to go too far (hide spoiler)], but I think I wouldn't have suspected a connection if the author's name had been blanked out, also the Swiss theme, looking on, implicated and innocent of what they see.A nice piece, the language not too Swiss for me, I had here an edition for schools from the 60s and the suggested translations for phrases such asHosenscheisser or  wir scheissen in die Hosen are amusing mild and non-scatological suitable for a teacher to be comfortable teaching children who are, inthe teachers opinion, all too ready to giggle.
3.5 stars... I found it really strange at first, but the ending quite hit me. It is super impressing to see the strength of prejudices and hate to others like Frisch lays it out in this book.
Although brilliant and touching as is everything by Max Frisch, this book deeply depressed me, because it takes away the little faith in humanity I might still have somewhere, because I know exactly how it's not just a play, not just a story, not just fiction.After reading this book I really don't want to be part of this wretched race anymore, this wretched race called humans that declare themselves superior but are superior to animals only in cruelty and stupidity, I sometimes think.
It can only be taken as the compliment to Frisch that it is, that this book has shaken me so deeply.
Really good play about a small fictional country presumably on the german border where tensions are growing as they expect an invasion. Mostly about racism but its more than that, it has a very Greek-tragedy feel to it, a conspiracy of circumstance and human failings. At times it also reminded me of Shirley Jacksons 'The Lottery' or 'Lord of the Flies'. Only a couple of problems with it, one is a side event which happens to (view spoiler)[one of the female (hide spoiler)] characters, its horrifi
Really good play about a small fictional country presumably on the german border where tensions are growing as they expect an invasion.
Only a couple of problems with it, one is a side event which happens to (view spoiler)[one of the female  (hide spoiler)] characters, its horrific and is really not addressed in any meaningful way.
Its just sort of brushed aside, i found that a bit weak.The other problem is probably a translation issue but i felt like some of the speeches were...
a bit confusing, a little too esoteric or something.
So good. When you begin to read it, for about two thirds of the play, you are aware you are watching a tragedy unfold. For the last part its about not going crazy. As a reader you know the ending Andri will suffer because cuts to witness stands intermingle with the scenes of the plot. Single sentences, so many of them, are heavy with meaning and truth, heavy like bricks and since youre forced to eat them you feel like youre choking a lot of the time.At some point, when Andri is beyond "the truth
As a reader you know the ending Andri will suffer because cuts to witness stands intermingle with the scenes of the plot.
Single sentences, so many of them, are heavy with meaning and truth, heavy like bricks and since you´re forced to eat them you feel like you´re choking a lot of the time.At some point, when Andri is beyond "the truth", when he doesn´t see or care about truths anymore, while his half-sister Barblin deals with the implications it has on their now incestuous relationship you are almost going mad along with him/them, and their joint scene is a whirlwind of crazy.
Die ganzen Bemerkungen der anderen haben Andri mit der Zeit so runtergezogen, dass er von einen aufgeweckten, jungen Mann zu einen barschen und tristen Außenseiter geworden ist.Die Handlung sollte uns daran erinnern, dass mir andere Menschen viel zu schnell - sei es durch Äußerlichkeiten oder Dingen, die man von anderen gehört hat - beurteilt und in eine Schublade steckt, obwohl sie eigentlich gar nicht so sind, wenn man sie nur besser kennenlernen würde.FAZITEin kurzes Buch für Zwischendurch, das garantiert nicht jedem gefallen wird, das aber dennoch zum Nachdenken anregt.
every once in a while literature is capable of creating moments of true insight.this is archetypal stuff. it goes deep into the social and psychological mechanisms behind ostracism, from stereotype-threats to scapegoating and the all the complicated relations between identity and image. the protagonist Andri is caught at the intersection of these mechanisms, he is identified and finally killed by the sum of his interactions, and everyone feels this, as the constant victim-blaming of the other characters seems to indicate, but almost nobody reacts and breaks the dynamic. "you all seem like marionettes with their strings entangled."
I read this as a German A Level text.
It's a short but incredibly moving play about a young man, Andri, who is in love with a girl, Barblin, and who is mistaken for a Jew and tried then executed.It has this Greek-chorus thing threaded throughout where individual characters stand up to protest their innocence, only to completely drop themselves in it.
Their little speeches pull you out of the action and force you to analyse what's going on as it actually happens.If you have a choice as to your German A Level texts - choose this one!
This is an incredible short play about a young man named Andri whose whole life gets destroyed because he is mistaken for a Jew. It is a very tragic story and at times it was really hard to continue reading because he was treated in such a disgusting and realistic way.
Every single one of them justified himself and acted like they were not the one to blame despite being part of that cruel society that destroyed him.It is great that this book is mandatory reading in many schools.
Moest dit boekje voor Duits lezen. volgende week hebben we er een toets over. Dit boekje was veel beter dan het vorige boekje dat ik van Max Frisch moest lezen (Biedermann und die Brandstifter).
Andorra is a haunting tale of identity, guilt, and responsibility that reached straight into my chest and took my breath away.
Who says the Swiss are remote and passionless?
4.5 - 5
We hebben allemaal de steen gegooid.Antropoloog René Girard stelt in "De Zondebok" (een boek waar ik ongetwijfeld meer mee zou dwepen als ik de eerste 10 pagina's door was gekomen zonder hoofdpijn te krijgen) dat de mens een enorm talent heeft voor nabootsing.
Andorra speelt erg sterk in op de zondebokrol die het Jodendom heeft moeten dragen gedurende millennia.Andorra is niet het Andorra dat wij kennen, maar een verzonnen microstaat met een allegorisch karakter.
Gedurende het hele stuk is er de dreiging van de zwarte soldaten (een toespeling op de nazi's), die vooral voor de Joden, maar ook voor de Andorrezen een gevaar vormen.Voor Andri zijn er echter twee vijanden: de zwarten en de Andorrezen zelf.
I think it was the first time I'd heard of the Verfremdungseffekt ("distancing effect") in plays - which I guess I should remember I really like, based on the fact that I fucking adored Brecht's The Good Person of Setzuan lol.
Yeah sure, it's not about that, but holy fuck did Barblin get done dirty by the narrative.
Or maybe it's some very smart commentary on how it can be extremely difficult for an oppressed person to think beyond themselves, but honestly that seems contradictory to other parts of the play so I sure hope not.
When compared to other works of german literature I've read, Andorra looks like a snow-white masterpiece.
I liked how the alienation effect was much more subtle in this play than in Brecht's work, and the context of the play seemed more relevant to the sentiments of the time period in which it was written.
The message was also clear, and the characters weren't too insufferably dramatic.
I didn't like how cut and dry the rest of the characters were besides Andri, barblin, peider, and can, because they felt like extras and were interchangeable.
Brought this along on my trip stateside to keep german in my system, ended up reading the whole thing on the flight to washington, oops.
Foreign language books people.Having never read any Frisch (though he is the favorite author of several of my swiss, and slightly more surprisingly, german friends) I didn't really know what to expect.
If not, it could certainly be used as such nowadays; substitute yugoslavs turks or africans (hell, what does it matter, just foreigners) for jews, put smug little switzerland under fascist pressure from outside, and I wouldn't see things going all that differently.
I have never felt so closely what it most be like when government forces come and collect those that are different to be taken away and killed.
We have come back to identifying human beings that we perceive as being worth treated less than human and killed without any trial because we believe they are engaged in something or have even potentially thought about something we don't like.
Today this is done with drone attacks among other methods.
The assumption that one clearly stands above others and can kill them instead of giving them a fair trial if one likes has not.
This is a very interesting book that basicly is just the rolemodel of people in the community who get discriminated and have to experience prejudice.
It reminded me alot of the begining of the the holocaust but the place is fictive.
Just the main charakters have actual names so alot of the other people are just called "person" or "soldier" or just "pastor" this made it easy to imagine them and you can also just take it as an example for every country and everywere because the place and the charakters are all fictive and dont have direct relations to any historic event.
Andorra, Andorra.I remember watching the play in the theater with my grandmother and suddenly there was someone naked (the director at our local theater had a thing about nakedness.)It was a bit weird, but I think my grandma's eyes weren't as good anymore, because she didn't comment.Now, I don't know about the nakedness, but I loved Andorra. Not as much as Homo Faber, one of my favourite books ever, but it is a good play. I wonder why I haven't read more of Max Frisch's works. I need to remedy that.
Another representative of postwar literature. It was interesting in many ways and specifically how it depicts the way public opinion and words used to describe a person, can influence (and destroy) one's self-esteem and the picture of oneself. And about prejudices. How strong and blinding they can be. And about the people's nature to try to shift the responsibility and guilt to somebody else. As it usually takes the courage to admit guilt. The courage that only few have.Frisch wrote a drama about antisemitism without having a single Jew-character in it. Well-done.
I had a boyfriend in 1989 who was into dark literature and I read this because of him.I asked my grandmother to buy it for me and she thought it was a terrible choice for an 18 yeaR OLD but bless her heart, she bought it. I finally gave it away. no idea waht it was about, but I thought I was very literate for having it in my library for years,
I had to read this book for school Max Frisch being Swiss and all. Yet it turns out to be one of my favorite books and I really try to take the moral of it to heart. I cried at the end and if a book gets me this emotional it's got to mean something...
ok so this is a german book i had to read for school and i totally hated it. The worst part is that you actually read this book in grade 9 in germany and not grade 11. The topics were intelligent but the writing style was so different from I know and like
Its not one of those books wich are easy to understand (thats at least my experience) it got a lot more sence than you might think ... for me its about prejudiced people with no social sences and the sad thing about it is that its so close to reality.GREAT BOOK!
I think kids should have to read this in school. This book mocks Switzerland during WWII and their policy of being 'neutral'. Prejudice still existed and tormented many of the people there. Andoraa is all about the negative implications of stereotypes and what they can drive people to do.
The book tries to draw a parallelism to Switzerland's role during WW2 (even though Frisch always declined that). Strange story. I had to read it in school and probably wouldn't have in my spare time ;-)
ترجمه:حميد سمندريان-------————---------باربلين: موهام چطور شد؟كشيش: موهاي تو، باربلين، دومرتبه رشد ميكنه.باربلين:مثل علفي كه رو قبرها سبز مي شه.
