https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42929.Gai_Jin
”So easy to be swallowed up, by the weather and gardens, kind skies and tender rain, best music, poetry, exotic foods, abundant silks and clothes makers, exquisite carp and singing birds, the alabaster-skinned beauties of the court, and of Kyoto’s Floating World,...without a care in the world except to seek the next pleasure.” After conquering China, the traders of Europe are now focused on opening up trade relations with Japan. They are perched precariously on the edge of the Islands in a small
”There’s no such thing as sin in Japan, original sin, any kind of sin.” The men visit the brothels regularly, and much of the business conducted in this book between the Japanese and the Gai-jin are transacted in the whorehouses.
Clavell has never managed to create characters as compelling as Dirk Struan and May-May in the novel Tai-pan.
I have high hopes that Ian Dunross, the Tai-pan of Struans in the book Noble House, will finally provide me with the strong willed, smart, cunning character I so adored in Dirk Struan.
As I mentioned before, I highly recommend Tai-pan and then Noble House before attempting to read Gai-jin.
There are a lot of great characters & the writing is everything I've come to expect from Clavell, but every other book of his is fairly upbeat (sort of) with a great heroic, central figure.
That I made it through this book, which had plenty, is a testament to both Clavell's writing & John Lee's excellent reading.
The former comes next in the series, but it isn't read by John Lee & isn't really important to the history of the Noble House.
Tough call, but I think I'll go on to Noble House.
I loved Clavell's SHOGUN, and while GAI-JIN takes great efforts to paint on-the-verge-of-Meiji Japan in great depth, this book is hardly SHOGUN.
SHOGUN always opened new doors, always presented new sides to the characters and the politics...GAI-JIN just keeps treading and re-treading and re-re-treading old ground.
I'm so much of a Japanophile that I'm sticking with it, and the characters are compelling enough, but something needs to HAPPEN, darnit.
I think, knowing the history and knowing what of the characters' plans simply won't come to fruition because that's not how history turned out, puts too much of a damper on the suspense for me.
I do keep turning pages.
An edited version of this article was first published as Book Review: Gai-Jin by James Clavell on Blogcritics.org.This is the third book of James Clavell's Asian Saga. Two years ago, I read the first book,  Shogun , and a year ago, I read the second,  Tai-Pan . Both were huge mammoth books, and the third installment is nothing different.I suppose there are times in which I sort of disliked this book, but then later I realized that I only "disliked" it because I was expecting something else. But
With respect to the traders, there are two big trading houses that play big roles, Struan's and Brock's (which were both introduced and were the main source of conflict in the previous book).
Every person, whether it is a foreigner or a Japanese, thinks that one's culture is superior to the other.
The foreigners think that the Japanese are barbaric, and vice versa.
You just have to read it for yourself.I liked the fact that this book is big enough that there's something that anyone will like.
Perhaps it is the quintessential saga.What I didn't like is that there's too many things going on, but then, come to think of it, it's not a run-of-the-mill novel.
Many characters and descendents of characters and story lines and histories from the previous 2 novels can be found in Gai-jin.
The telling of the struggle between Japan and the Gai-jin (foreigners), and the internal struggle between The Japanese shogunate ( this ruling clan that gained supreme power in the novel Shogun) and the Japanese who want ruling power to return back to the emperor of Japan.As in his other works the story contains a bunch of other sub plots, and a cast of many.
In conclusion I love the base story of the book, but there is just too much sub plots and characters to keep track of.
The subject itself (the decline of the shogunate and the foreign "invasion" of Japan) is interesting, and I'd like to read another fictional attempt set in the same era.On a side note, I would add that Clavell is amusing in his characterization of women - they are all conniving sneaks out to control men and other women.
I think one of my favorite parts of the book involved one man watching the main female, thinking to himself that she "fed on their lust." Ha. Sadly, amusement quickly turns to boredom after a while, and I really would advise you to stay away from this book as long as you have something else to read.
As I was cleaning my book shelves over the holidays, I discovered this wonderful book by James Clavell about the British in Japan in 1862.
There are geisha girls, samurai soldiers, the British, French, and Japanese warriors filled with plans, wars, and doubts.
Of course, there is a fascinating French girl.
I guess I bought it and thought I would read it later and simply forgot about it with my other book club selections.
I went online to learn that James Clavell passed away in 1994, wrote the screenplay for To Sir with Love and The Great Escape, plus others.
I admire Clavell, and would normally rate all his books as 5 out of 5. The intrigue, the complicated characters, the loyalties built and betrayed... I love that. However, I couldn't finish Gai-Jin despite starting to read it three times over the last 10 years. I just can't make it past a certain event mid-book (can't disclose a spoiler).I don't know what happened here. Maybe it's me, maybe it's just that the book is heavier than the usual, brilliant James Clavell. But I just can't get into it. Overall, it's left me puzzled and unsatisfied.
The Asian Saga: the struggle for Japan's destiny.
I have to admit the book definitely is way too long for what it contains, but I absolutely reject the idea that there is no central character.I agree Clavell took a different approach in Gai-Jin. I guess that at the end of his life, he didn't want to give readers the same pattern with central hero as many of his previous stories did, so he plays a sort of game here.
But to be honest, by reading couple of his books already, I learned that ends of Clavell's stories aren't meant to be "liked".
Again complex and interesting characters, and a combination of politics, business, intrigues and personal stories.
Since this books is set in the middle of the Asiatic saga there were descendants and ancestors of beloved (or deliciously hated) characters from the other books of the saga, and it added to the fun of reading, knowing what will come out of them or how they'll be remembered, one of them the legendary "Hag Struan" remembered as a mythical character from "Noble House", here still Tess Struan, relatively young, but already looming and feared, very much present though from far away Hong Kong.
Aside a few mistakes (contradictions with earlier novels, such as the mention of May-May being Gordon Chen's mother when in Tai-Pan, she was not, among other things), this was a decent read.Like Tai-Pan, this plodded in some places, particularly through the later half of the book, but Clavell was rather ill and died shortly after finishing this.
I only wish that there was at least a chapter from Culum, Tess, and Gordon Chen's points of views, to show what has happened to them since Tai-Pan, and what happened to the deal set between Dirk and Jianqua, of which there is NO mention at all in Gai-Jin. It was a decent continuation of Tai-Pan in my opinion, but not as wonderful as Shogun.
An extremely long book, dealing with European traders with a foothold in Japan, and their personal lifes and lives, and also dealing with internecine politics within the ruling classes of Japan. I found this very difficult to read for the first 500 pages and really had to persevere - not entirely sure it was worth it in the end.
It was almost as if these were the Godfather movies, Gai-jin being Godfather III-the Afterthought.Spoilers (as if you care)...Things that are awesome:Ninjas and Samurai - Fucking Ninjas and Samurai, nuff said.Japanese Concubines - The ability of the sideways snatch to politically motivate white folks and change the course of history never ceases to amaze me (i.e. The Beatles)Yoshi and Hiraga - While enemies, the most compelling characters in the story.The Fire - Too bad it took 700 pages too many to get there.Abortion Herbs - Looks like we were about 200 years late on the plan B there....Morphine - Turning sick people into pill addicted lunatics since 1850!Things that sucked:Angelique Richaurd - The female lead in this story and she makes no sense to me.
They are invariably a thosand pages of narrative that spans a short period of time, packed with an ensemble cast of larger than life characters from another time, in a faraway exotic land; all of whom are battling, loving, hating, spying on, killing, plotting against and sleeping with each other.
It is tragic in many ways as it traces the difficulties of Malcolm Struan - a young man destined to inherit a large fortune and marry a beautiful French woman, but whose happines is cut short after a brutal attempt on his life.
However, where Shogun had one main character this one had a bunch (10?) so it was less compelling.
Still, I am incredibly impressed with the author for keeping track of so many convoluted plots and schemes between all the characters.
Also, I listened to this as an audiobook and the reader (who I recognized from other audiobooks I've listened to) deserves a lot of credit for attempting to do all the myriad accents.
Not just English and Japanese, but "Virginian who studied in England for a few years" and "Japanese who was shipwrecked in America and learned english there" and other compound multi-national accents.
Utter crap　of the worst sort, like Bear and Dragon, chosen for its length alone. Full of the most facile stereotypes and misguided ideas of chivalry. Not even a decent bodice-ripper. Completely unredeemable.
Five stars when the stories centered on the Japanese characters. One star when the stories centered on the European characters. Totally not at the same level as Tai-Pan.
These events, ultimately, lead to the collapse of the shogunate and the whole feudal system in 1867 and the Meiji Restoration in 1868, though the novel doesn't cover events up to that point (just as Clavell's earlier Shogun doesn't cover any of the actual Tokugawa shogunate, only the events leading up to its formation).Reviewers complain that nothing happens at the end of the novel, that it is an anti-climax after the 1,200 pages or more of time and effort required to get to the end.
И макар да могат да ме оборят, че това в книгата е писмена реч и е по-добре всички думи да си съдържат всички "у"-та, като знам как българите по принцип подхождат към азиатските езици, ми се плаче много, много, много силно.Японските "преводачи", тоест - героите в книгата с тази роля - определено не помогнаха, честно да ви кажа...
според мен щеше да е много по-добре да се изчистят и да не докарват кръвоизливи в сърцето на хора като мен...Отделно, защо, аджеба, само на французите им беше позволено да говорят на латиница?
a vast colonial epic, less thrilling than others in the series, but still compelling, partially because the author pulls no punches for any of his characters.
Like the other books of James Clavell, I borrowed this one from the library years ago.
I liked his style and decided that I wanted to have his books.
definitely will.Review: despite it is a good book, I liked it less than I liked shogun.
The stories told were good, the characters enjoyable, even though some were good, some bad and most of them very cunning, just looking for personal advantage at every cost.
I got quite irritated with the westeners there, how can they be so dirty, have lice, while the Japanese were so much further in personal hygene.
I was just starting to get a bit sick of it as I had been reading it for so long.As usual with Clavell's Asian Saga, the book is meticulously researched and intricately plotted, so it almost feels like you're actually there.
Before you read this you need to ask yourself:1) Am I willing to be in it for the long haul?2) Am I fine with a narration that doesn't judge morally ambigious characters and/or actions?3) Do I need a resolution where all loose ends are tied up?If you answer yes, yes and no you can go ahead and read it.
I am only giving this book 3 stars as it was just a really heavy read for me.
I was almost halfway through before i began to really enjoy it and the book is over 1200 pages.
There were just so many characters in the novel and different factions within Japan fighting for power that I had a hard time following it and the main character was just not strong enough.
Perhaps if i had read Tai-Pan before reading this novel i would have enjoyed it more.
Definitely will be choosing a light easy read for my next book!
This is typical Clavell - intricately woven with very deep character development and many surprises. It doesn't really matter how many literary plots one believes in, Clavell seems to incorporate them all into his novels.The only thing I am critical about, is that this book in the saga does not fill in the storyline to any significant degree between Tai-pan and Noble House, something I was looking forward to.
Picked this up in 2nd handbook shop before Christmas. Had forgotten how absorbing Clavell is.It actually got a bit tedious and I found the development of one of the Japanese samurai warriors who ends up spying / infiltrating the Western end. The best characters are either not in it enough (Toranaga) or only referred to and never seen directly ("hag" Struan). Good enough yo remind me how much I loved Tai-Pan and Shogun as a teenager, so James Clavell very define toy on the re-read list
This follows Dirk's (hero of Tai-Pan) son Cullum & his wife. I didn't like it nearly as well as any of his other books. If you like the series (Shogun, Tai-Pan) then read this once as the background helps a lot for "Nobel House". "Shogun" references are also in here. Clavell does a good job of tying his novels together.
History rich, a deeper look into the Western presence in Japan, 1862. Dangerous, lots of blood, samurais, spies, prostitutes - another well crafted masterpiece. The building tension between the Japanese and the foreigners ... couldn't put it down the last half.
Excellent sequil to Noble House. Another thick book that kept my attention and interest. It picks up where Noble House left off and covers the same families and rivalries.Excellent. I remember I bought it in hard cover as soon as it came out - I had waited over 10 yrs for the sequil.
Fills in a little of the big time void between Taipan and King Rat. Not as good as either, but still follows the characters. Kind of wraps up Taipan after the death of Dirk Struan by following his son to Japan for more adventure and cutthroat mercantilism.
