https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2321296.Ink_Exchange
Again, there are interesting ideas about faery lore that I would like to know more about.
I am not sure if Marr expects me to already know all these things or I am supposed to deduce what I need to know from bits and pieces of mythology she gives throughout her book, sometimes in the very end of the story.
I am convinced that if I need someone who have read all her books several times to explain to me what's what, the narration is just not that great.Overall, "Ink Exchange" is an OK book.
Not sure if I will read any more of Marr's book.
Yet we're supposed to think this is a healing thing because her proximity to the Dark King feels so good that she forgets everything except being with him.
Humans have died because Rabbit did this to them in the past but since Iriel comes to care for Leslie, we're supposed to think that makes it okay, I guess.One of the things that continues to bother me about Marr's storytelling is being thrown into the story without ever having the action explained or clear until the book is more than half over.
Aislinn could have prevented the whole thing if she'd just told Leslie the truth, and Keenan became the scheming, manipulative bastard I'd feared he was becoming in WICKED LOVELY.
I honestly can't remember if I was intrigued by him the first time I read WICKED LOVELY, but I love how Marr developed his character in this second installment---as much as I love Bad Boys, I also have a significant weakness for Complex Lives-by-his-Troth Guys.
Even if you don't share my weaknesses, most of you can agree that both Bad Boys and Complex Lives-by-his-Troth Guys are better than frat boy dumb dumbs (like Keenan).And Leslie is a heartbreakingly tragic heroine.
Aislinn has commissioned Niall, Keenan's friend and right hand man, to watch over Leslie, haunting her steps in order to protect her from the Dark Court faeries who seem to have developed a sudden, unhealthy interest in her.
But, unbeknownst to any of them, Leslie has chosen Irial's tattoo to ink on her back, a process which will link the girl and the Dark King, allowing him to feed off human emotion through her, and thereby keep his people from starving.
Until you want to run screaming onto the page, snatch Leslie (and Niall, and, yes, Irial, too) in your arms and stash them away somewhere warm and safe and dry until they're able to heal.
I didn't like the first one, Wicked Lovely, so I don't know why I read the second one, other than I wanted to give the author a second chance...The teen librarian where I work told me that the teens are eating these books up, but I can only figure that the appeal is the fact that teenagers are being picked to be fairy queens; I don't get it.These books are badly written, the world the characters inhabit is undeveloped, and the author spends too much time on the build up only to leave us with hurried, pat endings.
5 out of 10 ревью на русском/review in russianCruel and dark story. I really liked Niall, actually I liked only Niall, so you can see why I didn't love the book. Still have no time for reviews =(Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота):— Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота) #1/5— Ink Exchange (Роковая татуировка) #2/5— Stopping Time (Останавливая время) #2.5/5— Old Habits (Старые привычки) #2.6/5— Fragile Eternity (Темное предсказание) #3/5— Radiant Shadows (Смертные тени) #4/5— Darkest Mercy (Жестокое мил
5 out of 10
ревью на русском/review in russianCruel and dark story. I really liked Niall, actually I liked only Niall, so you can see why I didn't love the book. Still have no time for reviews =(Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота):— Wicked Lovely (Коварная Красота) #1/5— Ink Exchange (Роковая татуировка) #2/5— Stopping Time (Останавливая время) #2.5/5— Old Habits (Старые привычки) #2.6/5— Fragile Eternity (Темное предсказание) #3/5— Radiant Shadows (Смертные тени) #4/5— Darkest Mercy (Жестокое милосердие) #5/5— Faery Tales & Nightmares (Сказки и кошмары) — Desert Tales (Рассказы о пустыне)
3 &  starsI wanted to give the prequel to this book Wicked Lovely 3 &  stars but I opted for 4 stars in the end because of the cute little excerpts that Marr included at the start of the chapters about fae folklore. I found them charming. Unfortunately those little quotes were not included in Ink Exchange. I thought that omitting these took from the atmosphere of the book. Should something like that had been included, I would have easily given this one 4 stars as well.I wanted to like th
3 & ½ starsI wanted to give the prequel to this book Wicked Lovely 3 & ½ stars but I opted for 4 stars in the end because of the cute little excerpts that Marr included at the start of the chapters about fae folklore.
Unfortunately those little quotes were not included in Ink Exchange.
Should something like that had been included, I would have easily given this one 4 stars as well.I wanted to like this book, and I did, but I didn’t feel that it as effectively captured the “spirit” of the fairy world as did Wicked Lovely.
This book surprised me (and not in a good way).
Perhaps because I didn't feel as many dark undertones in the first book, Wicked Lovely, I expected this work to be an entertaining, dark-ish, YA fantasy with themes of finding love, belonging, dealing with authority/power, etc.
I made myself push through to the end, even when I realized a couple of chapters in what kind of departure this book would be from any comfort level I've ever had.
I'm hoping that the next installment in the series, Fragile Eternity, will pick up the engaging relationship themes with a balance of fantasy and care that drew me to the first book.
So I beebopped to my library and picked up audiobooks, because I can read them way faster than paperbacks or hardcovers.A part of me likes "Ink Exchange" more because it is way more memorable (I barely remember the plot of "Wicked Lovely" - and for those who are thinking about starting the series here, I say go ahead, background details you need will be provided and it's about a totally different character anyway) and Leslie is a far more interesting character.
Of course getting a tattoo does not solve life's problems, but in some deluded way, it makes sense to a 17-year-old attempting to grasp at any "sense of self" that she can.
I can't explain why, but I recall being that rebellious teenager.At any rate, my favorite character was Irial, hands down.
*SPOILER*I'm a little sad that Leslie didn't end up with someone at the end of the story, but I feel like Marr went against the grain with the lack of happy ending.
And I'm really excited to buy the Fragile Eternity paperback with the continuation of Leslie's story in it, called "Stopping Time."READ THIS BOOK!
Leslie has decided getting a tattoo is a way she can reclaim some control over her life and decides on the symbol that will link her to Irial and eventually lead to her death.
Niall must break his rule about human contact in order to keep Leslie safe and ends up falling in love with her.The battle between the Dark Court and the Summer Court revolves around Leslie.
Instead, Leslie gets the tattoo and feels the immediate draw to Irial where she is used to feed the Dark Court.
For the climax of this book, Leslie has to make a hard choice and when she does, the readers aren't in her POV, but another's so it happens off screen and we're told about it.
After all the things that happened to her, I felt cheated in not being able to see her struggle to make the choice.
And here I was thinking I had created something unique ;) That seems to happen a lot with books and readers might think writer's are copying each other (like everyone writing vampire books after the success of Twilight), but sometimes it just happens.
In her essay "The Collapsible Woman", Vanessa Veselka talks about how society expects all victims of rape to break and collapse.
She argues that we don't know how to deal with survivors rather than victims.
But clearly Marr knows how.
Like the previous book in this series, the human characters are so real, full of all the strengths and weakness that make up real teenage women.
This book is particularly compelling because it deals with darker issues like rape and addiction in a real way.
Marr makes it clear that things are rarely black and white and that recovery from addiction and abuse is a process.
To finish or not to finish? I'm having a hard time deciding if I want to truly finish this book. I maybe have 100 pages left and I have no desire to finish. I don't care what happens. As I'm reading this book, it gives me the feeling of what I guess it would feel like to be on drugs. The ups and downs, the darkness, the hopelessness. This book is dark and leaves me with sad ugly feelings.
Ink Exchange is the companion novel to Wicked Lovely, which basically means that it is not the sequel to Wicked Lovely, but is still set in the same world and has many of the same characters as Wicked Lovely.
Personally, I like Ink Exchange better than I did Wicked Lovely.
Ink Exchange is definitely the darker novel of the too, this one is basically about addiction.
It revolves around one of Ash’s friends Leslie, Irial, the king of the Dark Court, and Niall, Keenan's adviser.
You have the Dark Court, which obviously is supposed to be bad, but are they really?
Re-reading this series has been pretty eye opening. It's not good. It really isn't but I love it for nostalgic reasons while being fully aware of how ridiculous and trope-filled it is. The writing...ouch. These troubled girls finding salvation in men who are dangerous, unhealthy, and rob them of choice is not something I'm enjoying reading about. The battling seasons/courts are laughable in their structure and depth. I can't help it, I'm flying through the re-read and loving how awful they are. It's like watching bad sy-fy movies...they're amazing because they're awful.
I found this book to be much more adult than "Wicked Lovely". Melissa scores a homerun with this book and completely recommend teens and adults to read it.Melissa has a wonderful voice and a great sense of the faery world. I applaud her.
Die Welt ist ziemlich schlecht entwickelt, so dass ich oft über Begriffe gestolpert bin und mittlerweile immer noch nicht weiß wie die meisten Elfen aussehen.
Außerdem hat mich die Geschichte zu diesem Zeitpunkt nicht mehr wirklich interessiert und ich habe nur noch überflogen, was ich sehr selten tue.
Viele Sachen blieben einfach ungeklärt und der einzige Grund weswegen das Buch nicht nur einen Stern von mir bekommt, ist Leslie's Entscheidung am Ende gewesen.
Das Buch war größtenteils so dunkel und hoffnungslos, dass es mich mit einem unguten Gefühl zurückgelassen hat.
I loved the first half/ two-thirds of  Ink Exchange, once the ink exchange took effect, I felt like the story got convoluted.The story focuses on Leslie, a close friend of Aislinn, the main character from the first book and the reigning Summer Queen of the faery courts.
Niall is also interested in Leslie, and he and Irial struggle over Leslie's mortality and her role in the faery world.Leslie, having been kept in the dark about all this, completes the tattoo, making her Irial's Shadow Girl.
The story left me wanting more in the best way.Pros:-Tie to book 1.
(view spoiler)[ The shared history between Irial and Niall creates a compelling dynamic between the two of them.
From choosing to get the tattoo to reclaim her body, to choosing to (view spoiler)[ remove herself from the fey world and be with neither Irial or Niall  (hide spoiler)] Leslie is all about self-empowerment and creating her own happiness.
I think it is cool to see the parallels between the faeries we're told are bad (Irial, Gabriel) and who we're told are good (Keenan, Niall).
The chapters were easier to zip through but while this book improved in areas from Wicked Lovely there were still glaring problems.
There was no love in this book, just a convenient masquerade for lust and lots of it.
Leslie’s “difficult” life felt forced and the terrible things that happened to her were gratuitous and served no purpose towards the plot, nor did it work as a contrast to Aislinn’s own in the previous book.
I don’t know, it just felt too convenient when things ended up the way they did.
Ink Exchange, by Melissa Marr, is the second book in the series Wicked Lovely.
I love, love, love the faerie world Marr has created.
Her attention to detail in how she creates her characters and the various faerie courts is magnificent.
What she does not know is that the tattoo will bind her to the Faerie King of the Dark Court, a sinister and dark existence that will show her there are greater dangers out there beyond the mortal world.Marr brought several characters to the forefront in this book and crafted them so carefully that you can’t help but falling for them.
I started it because Wicked Lovely was okay, so i decided to get the second book.
Usually, i can figure out if i like an author or not based on their second book.
Aislyn, who i'd liked, was barely in it, and it was just leslie and some new characters.
If a book can't even hold my attention, then i know its boring.
It was like Niall and Ithuriel(think that's his name) were just taking turns passing Leslie around.
One minute Niall would be with Leslie, then Ithuriel would be with her.
Wicked Lovely had been, good but this whole book was a let down.
nonostante il deludente finale, mi è piaciuto molto.Irial all'inizio non l'avevo inquadrato bene, poi però mi ha stupito: "corrotto" dell'umanità di Leslie, il suo cuore oscuro comincia a provare sentimenti che non si accordano con il suo ruolo di re della Corte Oscura.Niall, invece, l'ho adorato sin dall'inizio: la seguiva e la proteggeva nell'ombra, resistendo all'attrazione che prova per lei finché un giorno non cede alla tentazione.
Mi ha delusa un po', però, il suo atteggiamento mentre lei era nelle mani di Irial, pensavo che avrebbe cercato di liberarla in qualche modo ma invece non fa niente finché non la reincontra un giorno per strada.Leslie ha subito molte disgrazie nella sua breve vita e sono felice per lei alla fine, nonostante tutto.
Quick review:Cover: Nice! Rating:  R Thumbs Up:  3.5Overall: A waste of timeCharacters: Good Plot: There is something strange going on and I can’t put my finger on it.Page Turner: at times Series Cont.? Maybe Recommend:  Not sure yetBook Boyfriend: NiallSUMMARY (50 words or less)Where I loved the first book, I could have not read this book at all. Unfortunately, it doesn’t further the series in any way that I can see based on the ending. What little we did learn that may have been of some use co
Rating:  R Thumbs Up:  3.5Overall: A waste of timeCharacters: Good	Plot: There is something strange going on and I can’t put my finger on it.Page Turner: at times Series Cont.?
Unfortunately, it doesn’t further the series in any way that I can see based on the ending.
What little we did learn that may have been of some use could be put in novella form.For a full review and yummy pic, see my blog post at:http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...
Audio Review Nick Landrum did a good job narration although he sounded very somber.
He did a decent job with the female voices as well.
2016 reading challenge - a book with a blue coverI expected something else when I initially picked this book up. But one thing I love about the books is when they surprise me. And this one surprised me in a good way. I liked the decision Leslie made in the end. Her character was the most likable and I appreciate the girl-power message the author was trying to get across. Or at least that's the message I got from reading this novel.
Mah. Continuo a pensare che nel 2008 assumessi droghe davvero pesanti.
Dark as fooooook, but man, I love Marr's writing style, and her imagination is unbelievable--the creatures in her world are just so fascinating. Love it.
Rated 3.5 stars
They also have a strange dynamic with each other and it's all so crazy and intense.Emotionally(view spoiler)[The first time I tried to read this story, I only got a few chapters in and I didn't like it.
We learn about something called Ink Exchange which is basically a process that allows a person to become a conduit of emotions to feed the members of the Dark Court.
He has so many facets to his character that you don't really know all of them even at the end of this book.
