https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55235.Moral_Man_and_Immoral_Society
But his core points - about the differences between individual and group morality, and the application to, I quote, "Constant and seemingly irreconcilable conflict between the needs of society and the imperatives of a sensitive conscience." Hence decisions in international politics that would be utterly callous in individual/personal relationships.
But it is interminably frustrating to disentangle how individual philosophies become political strategy - it is already a nasty business if somebody like Barack Obama had to do it.
What Niebuhr is selling* with this bad boy from 1932: It pains me to have to say this, but it's Cluebat time for all you arm-linked and well-intentioned but tunnel-of-love-visioned LOLcat lightweights, awash in pacifist dreams and tiptoeing about waiting for the Kingdom of God to answer all of your pinned-and-needled hopes.
Amen and pass the whiskey.*This might not, in fact, be what Niebuhr is selling at all.
It's been a long time, and I've been hunkered down, scratching itches and putting out the street lights.
I've been having strange dreams lately, in which restrainedly hostile people are scheming to kill me.
The prose is tough - and, in truth, at points, impenetrable - but ultimately the cost is worth it to access so many critical guidelines for more effective individual and collective living.Among the incredibly abundant piercing insights are the observations that individual and collective ultimate goals are different (the former favoring unselfishness, the latter justice) so that society is not simply an aggregation of individual interests; that even moral aims may require coercion and other means that are not themselves generally considered moral; that economically-driven class interests are most often disguised in political and social processes; that the privileged tend to favor the preservation of the status quo and its attendant "peace" over the agitations of the less fortunate who have greater exposure to injustice; and that the American Negro may need to use Gandhi-like non-violent strategies in order to effectuate a change in his social, et.
I agree with the main prognosis of the individual (good) arrayed against society (conformist – evil).
There are a lot of obvious statements – like society being resistant to change.I feel the proletariat is romanticized – who will be their leader – to be a leader one must rise above the proletariat level.
In Hitler’s rise to power he was supported by all levels of society from the lower classes (proletariat and farmers) to the middle class and bourgeoisie.I also feel that Niebuhr is easy on religion – because he himself is a theologian?
There is no individualism in a congregation of several thousand people.
Very interesting and skeptical view of individual vs. group morality, and would be very useful for one attempting to enact positive change in society.
A difficult book but essential reading for anyone wanting to engage in the conversation about how to effect improvement in the human condition.
In light of recent events, I don't know that any American today would disagree with him.
It's also nice to be reminded of a time when religious thinkers had nuanced intellectual positions.
I'm sure these thinkers exist today, but the only opinions I hear from religious folks are anti-abortion, anti-gay marriage and anti-sex.
This volume is from a time when religious thinkers shouldered their way up to the big table and took part in the deepest conversations about human nature and social good.

Niebuhr brought forth a great idea on the moral problem by contrasting the ethical attitudes of the 'Privileged' and 'Proletarian' classes.
"To the sensitive spirit, society must always remain something of a jungle, which indeed it is, which might be brought a little nearer the kingdom of God, if only the sensitive spirit can learn, how to use these forces of nature to defeat nature, how to use force in order to establish justice."All in all, this is a book that compels the reader to challenge the beliefs under which they operate.More review to come?
Although individuals can attempt to adhere to a moral code, nations constantly act in their own self-interest.
This is not news, and it’s an analysis from 1931, based on pre-Nazi Germany (although Italy is already fascist by this point).
Niebuhr analyses how Christian morals find or fail to find expression in democratic systems.
The observations are satisfying at first, but as the book progresses, the increasing uses of the terms proletariat and other similar rhetoric, places this book firmly in the frozen depths of the Great Depression.
It has not aged well, and, in any case, such rhetoric would not, and will not, play in Peoria.
In his 1932 exploration of political virtue, Moral Man and Immoral Society, Reinhold Niebuhr took direct aim at Dewey’s identification of individual morality as socially determined.
Diggins goes so far as to suggest that Dewey’s rather vitriolic responses to Randolph Bourne during World War I resemble Niebuhr’s challenges in Moral Man and Immoral Society as far as their intellectual content is concerned.
They are endowed by nature with a measure of sympathy and consideration for their kind…Their rational faculty prompts them to a sense of justice…But all these achievements are more difficult, if not impossible, for human societies and social groups (xi).
Abstract and verbose. Certainly not as concise as Irony.(I've got something like 145 highlights, I don't know if any of them are valuable outside of their context). It is written at a very interesting time, 1932, when Communism was in Russia but had not shown the full horror of Stalinism, fascism was in power in Italy, but not in Germany, nor had it shown the full horror of Nazism. Niebuhr analyzes the struggles between particular and general interests, individual and collective power, and the perpetuation of injustice in many changing societies.
Published in 1932 "Moral Man and Immoral Society" continues to speak with wisdom and clarity to the issues humans face.
While individuals may have a certain sense of morality, society exists on a very different plane.
Hypocrisy and self-preservation stand at the heart of human society, and humans are often compromised by it.While not everything in this book transcends time, it is amazingly prescient about the political troubles we face.
This is illustrated in Niebuhr's discussion of coercion near the end of the book.
Coercion of some form will exist in society.
The last three chapters Moral Man are so dense and, stylistically, almost stream of consciousness, that it really required a Herculean effort to slog through them.
I probably took longer to get through those last three chapters than all the preceding chapters combined.
Particularly Niebuhr's criticism and analysis of Gandhi's campaign of non-violent resistance and his speculation that employing a similar strategy would probably be the only effective way for African Americans to make progress towards greater justice in the U.S. It's really a master work and I highly recommend it for anyone with a serious interest in politics (in the broadest sense), history and morality.
Niebuhr's central insight is that personal morality and group mentality are incompatible and that the latter will always trump the former.
Ethics and education may change individual minds but they will never overwhelm the inherent selfishness of the collective will.
Thus, patriotism is used to justify evil ends, making the individual feel part of a select and morally exempt group.
It's a pessimistic view of the world, but he makes his case eloquently, even if some of his examples are dated (it's hard to share his outrage over the Spanish-American War) and his equation of the proletariat with the working class had more resonance the 1930s than it does now.
Brilliant. Has an uncomfortably Enlightenment-era view of reason, but his social critique and his analysis of the tension between ethics and politics is so spot-on. I wonder at some of his conclusions in the final chapter, but they're unsettling and challenging in ways I found helpful. In particular, the book problemitized my growing, and largely naive, faith in liberal progressivism as the solution to most major social problems. While I haven't quite abandoned the liberal ideal, Niebuhr has given me a lot to think about. I especially appreciated his Marxian insights.
A study from 1932, which is very relevant now, on how good individuals can combine into bad collectives. It has insights into the value of being a political realist. Neibuhr was a theologian, but he was no utopian.
This book was instrumental in my development as an adult human being. It is as relevant today as it was when it was written.
Difficult but important
Reinhold Niebuhr: Major Works on Religion and Politics: (Library of America #263) I am in the process of reading and reviewing the four books separately before reviewing the LOA volume.At least since Plato's "Republic", philosophers have studied the relationship between individual and political morality.
I have changed my mind about many things, but I am inclined to think that all of our contemporary experience validates rather than refutes the basic thesis of this volume."The title of the book, and Niebuhr's comments in 1960, offer a succinct summary of the argument of the book that individual morality and political morality differ.
The unconscious and conscious identification of their special interests with general interest and universal values...is equally obvious in the attitude of classes.
Since inequalities of privilege are greater than could possibly be defended rationally, the intelligence of privileged groups is usually applied to the task of inventing specious proofs for the theory that universal values spring from, and that general interests are served by, the special privileges which they hold." (From the chapter "The Ethical Attitudes of Privileged Classes")I remain attracted to Niebuhr's writings and will probably attempt his THE NATURE AND DESTINY OF MAN at some future point.
Niebuhr, unlike his fellow liberal theologians, makes a place for radical evil and the necessary response of force to stop it.
Long before the rise of the religious right and the Moral Majority, the liberal church had been politically active and dominated the religious response to political, social and economic issues.
Niebuhr's move to a just war paradigm was a break with the liberal church.
Of course, he does not buy into a full Augustinian view, for Niebuhr remained a theological liberal.
The Evangelical church quotes Niebuhr when it comes to necessary war, even as it does Dietrich Bonhoeffer.
This giant of 20th century American liberal Protestant theology set the terms for discussion for at least two generations.
His thought was clear headed, bold and original, and he was a realist who never danced around an idea or conviction.
All of which is no doubt why this book had been so important to Barrack Obama, himself and probing and methodical thinker, during his presidency.
Despite the fact that this book is close to 90 years old, Niebuhr offers tremendously cogent insights into the nature of modern politics, society, and religion today.
The value here is how the ideas and theories he lays out are particularly applicable to the breakdown of civility today, with the rise partisan and "tribal" ideologies.Notable quote: "In the imagination of the simple patriot the nation is not a society, but Society.
Though its values are relative they appear, from his naive perspective, to be absolute.
The religious instinct for the absolute is no less potent in patriotic religion than in any other.
"We live in an age in which personal moral idealism is easily accused of hypocrisy and frequently deserves it.
It is an age in which honesty is possible only when it skirts the edges of cynicism.
For what the individual conscience feels when it lifts itself above the world of nature and the system of collective relationships...is not a luxury but a necessity of the soul.
We can no longer buy the highest satisfactions of the individual life at the expense of social injustice.
We cannot build our individual ladders to heaven and leave the total human enterprise unredeemed of its excesses and corruptions."
If you want to understand the current political climate of hatred toward political/social conservatives...
If you want to understand the thinking behind the phrase "white privilege"...
If you want to understand Black Lives Matter...
read Niebuhr who writes:"The physical sciences gained their freedom when they overcame the traditionalism based on ignorance, but the traditionalism which the social sciences face is based upon the economic interest of the dominant social classes who are trying to maintain their special privileges in society...
Moral Man and Immoral Society: A Study in Ethics and Politics (Arkosh Politics) (Kindle Locations 73-80).

In retrospect it was pretty naive of me to dive into this sucker as a layman, and without any context no less. It's worth the effort but I ran out of library renewals and ended up powering through the second half at a quicker clip than I normally would... gonna revisit this after I've recovered (and done some more background reading, because holy fuck I never appreciated how little I know about ethics or politics in general).
Si bien no está del todo claro, podría decirse que Reinhold es el autor de la plegaria de la serenidad: "Señor, concédeme serenidad para aceptar todo aquello que no puedo cambiar, fortaleza para cambiar lo que soy capaz de cambiar y sabiduría para entender la diferencia."
EnlighteningI am ashamed to admit, I had never paid attention to writings of Niebuhr. After reading this book, I find myself quoting him regularly. It has provided insight into some fundamental queries I have carried for years regarding Christianity and American’s history.
I have an intense love-hate relationship with Niebuhr. Intense.
