https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9416.Confessions_of_a_Shopaholic
I couldn't believe a girl like her was reading one of those girly indulgent drugstore bookshelf books about some cutsey flustered vunerable woman who almost manages to overcome her sweet, sugary problems by the last few pages.
Over the next few days, when I would be taking my 20 minutes for lunch, I started to leaf through the book for lack of better reading material (I had read the copy of People from three months prior so many times I could probably name the make-ups, break-ups, new babies and total tramps.) After a few chapters I was inexplicably hooked.
I read it over the course of about 4 or 5 lunch breaks.
Really, I swear, this book gives a new definition to the word ‘‘fun.’’ Somehow, Sophie Kinsella manages to create a perfectly realistic, three-dimensional heroine while completely charming us with her unbelievably original and laugh-out-loud-worthy misadventures.I can’t believe how different it is from the movie.
It’s as if the producers of the movie adaptation COMPLETELY rewrote Miss Bloomwood’s story.
There is no love-hate relationship between Luke and her and it’s more dramatic and the story better outlined, while things here are more comedic than dramatic and Becky’s dreams not at all mentioned.
I pulled it off the shelf and because I've found and read some pretty amazing book with this randomness, I thought ok.
Another reason I have become a little obsessed with shopping on ebay.
I thought this girl book would be fun, it would be like a new girl friend, getting to now good and bad about her, how she thinks about life...........
And her constant shopping while in debt, actually started to physically stress me out.2.
Half way into the book I felt really sad because I know that there is so many people who this is their reality.
This shallow mindset or consumption of caffeine, sugar, shopping, "fashion".....
I really hate slamming books, really I do.
I understand that she's a "shopaholic", but I've had quite a few friends who fell into that catagory that were never in danger of being as simple-minded and arrogant as Rebecca.Every time I put this book down, I find myself angry.
My forehead is wrinkled, and I'm snapping at my innocent boyfriend.Why?I'll give you a hint: It isn't because I'm upset at having to put the book down!All I can tell you is that unless you, yourself, are ignorant, incredibly stupid, deceitful, materialistic, dishonest, and rude...you will find nothing to associate with in Becky Bloomwood.
The Secret Dreamworld of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, #1), Sophie Kinsella ( Madeleine Wickham)The Secret Dreamworld of a Shopaholic (2000) (Confessions of a Shopaholic in the United States and India) is the first in the popular Shopaholic series.
It is a chick-lit novel by Sophie Kinsella, a pen-name of Madeleine Wickham.
کت و دامنی که از مغازه‌ ی «جیگ‌ ساو» خریده بودم، شامی که من و سوزی در رستوران کوالینیو خورده بودیم و آن قالیچه‌ ی خوشگل سرخ و زرد.
حالا که فکرش را می‌کردم، آن قالیچه خودش دویست پوند بود.
ولی قطعا ارزشش را داشت.
I went into this book expecting it to be just like the movie (which, by the way I love), but it might as well have been a completely different story.
I adjusted my expectations and thought it would be one of those rare instances where the movie is better than the book, but I loved them equally but in different ways!
The book was far less cutesy than the movie as it made Rebecca (the main character) a dislikable character at first.
As for Sophie Kinsella's writing style, I enjoyed it!
She writes everything humorously but with a ring of insight and relatability.
Really all of Sophie Kinsella's books put me in a good mood.
In Confessions of a Shopaholic we meet Rebecca Bloomwood(Becky to her friends) a young financial writer who longs to write for a fashion magazine.
To cope with her financial problems she does what any shopping addict would do..
As a person who loves to shop and never looks at prices I can see how easy it would be to fall into a financial hole.
The Shopaholic series is one of my go to books that always instantly improve my mood.
Recommended to readers who like light fun books with irrepressible hilarious heroines.
THE MOVIE IS INFINITELY BETTER (and I really tried not to compare them).The narrator's voice was really well done, but her actual personality and thoughts were beyond annoying...
Somehow she just came off as a bit more sane and the scenes were actually funny.In the book she's in massive debt and lying to herself and everyone around her as she continues to buy everything in sight.
Then she later tells him she's wearing the scarf because the aunt died...
I just wanted a light, fluffy read I could have fun with, but got so annoyed I wanted to chuck this out a window.
After college, I wanted nothing to do with serious books.
And so began my quest for all books fluffy and light.
This book is NOT TO BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY.
Otherwise, you'll find yourself realizing that if you actually knew a character as shallow as Becky Bloomwood, you'd probably give her a look of disgust and hiss at her as she walked by or something.
Also, don't think too much about her relationship with Luke.
Because seriously, why would a Luke EVER want a Becky?
So, take my advice and just laugh at Becky's ridiculous justifications for her purchases.
Forgot to mention I binge read the first three books in this series a couple weekends ago. I don't really do chicklit, but this was amazing. BRIDGET JONES FEELS EVERYWHERE.LOVED THIS. Thank you Inge for an amazing recommendation. This was feel good chocolate and wine and shoes and just what I needed. HIGHLY RECOMMEND.
Main character gets a few lucky breaks so she can continue pulling the same immature shit as she did at the beginning of the book and learns absolute fuckall in the process.
I felt like I was in more peril reading this book than anyone on a toxic waste clean-up crew.
Whenever I hear women talking about Prada et al, I imagine that they are studying up to go on The Price is Right.
She talks as if shopping for luggage is somehow a satisfying and rewarding way for two people to spend an afternoon.
They are all just chumps for not shopping at the thrift store.The saddest part about this is just how many people have read this piece of shit.
It also amazes me how many people praise this book because it's so easy to read.
I saw so much of myself in the main characters spending personality that it just made me laugh all the way thru reading it.
I gave up credit cards as my solutions and it appears that she finds her own way to keep her credit and her life good by the books end.
I have never read the sequels since I fear they will ruin the original to me.
Making mistakes like she makes once is funny never learning from your mistakes book after book would just make the character pathetic to me.
In fact, I only made it 25% into the book before I decided that reading more just wasn't for me.
For starters, the main character gives me a bad name.
She's bad at her job, she's completely self-centered and selfish and annoying, completely focused on outward appearances and and seems to think that the universe owes her a sweater.
I find idiotic people like Rebecca Bloomwood's type to be frustrating and annoying, not funny.
Plus, did I mention that she gives me a bad name?
moment for her, and no growth or anything in her character, and that somewhere down the line she marries The Guy, I decided to stop reading for good.
And I spent far too much time on this book that I really didn't like.
The first 200 pages or so are spent with the main character, Rebecca, avoiding all her collection calls and all the letters in the mail from her creditors.
She runs away to her parents' home, and goes into hiding, telling her parents that she's being stalked by the banker that's been calling her.It's only then, in the last 50 pages, she gets a handle on herself, and then everything basically falls into her lap.
GREAT way to get yourself out of debt.
GREAT way.Don't bother with this book.
I've been wanting to read this series for forever but was waiting for my library to finally add it.
I guess I wasn't the only one waiting to read it.
My impressions: Not at all like the movie, but I read somewhere that the movie was actually a mashup of books 1-3 so I guess I'll have to read some more.
Deep spirals of debt don't touch her very real compulsion because of the avoidance and rationalizations that come so easily to her.
Addiction isn't solved that easily.Overall, Confessions of a Shopaholic is a surprisingly deep book under the guise of funny chick-lit.
If you like shopping at all, this book will make you laugh.
The main character gets into funny situations constantly.
The effort the main character goes to to justify her shopping is hilarious and some genius plotting on Kinsella's part.
If you don't like shopping at all, look elsewhere.
If you like funny, memorable characters and plots, then give this a try.
A friend of mine doesn't want to read this book because she thinks it will make her feel bad about her shopping habits.
Trust me, the main character is worse than you could ever be.
This book was super cute...Becky's "justifications" for all her purchases made me laugh! I also now feel a strangely intense desire to go shopping :P
And this one really takes the prize.This is my third Kinsella book, and so far the women are always complete idiotic dip-shits that only barely manage to bumble through their careers while managing to make an ass of themselves at every turn.
You can rely on the fate and good-fortune of womanly endowments to make all the trivial problems in your little, frivolous bubble of world disappear.I know what you're thinking.
How is debt trivial?
If I ever read another review of a book like this on how "sad it was beneath the surface" all I have to say is how sad you are beneath the surface.SL and MMM.
You can start by spending less and not buying this book.
It's cute, it's heartwarming, and it makes me laugh. What more can you ask for in chicklit?
I mean, just how scary can a few numbers be?"It's been ages since I’ve read any chick-lit but when I found this book amidst a bunch of “free stuff” left at the mail boxes (ironic hey, its about overspending and I find it for free) Anyways I grabbed it, along with some other useless crap and immediately started chuckling.
This is an all around feel good book that reminded me why every once in a while some chick lit is a fabulous thing and best of all this was free…And let’s face it we’ve all been there with the credit card bills which we tend to ignore as soon as that excited feeling hits us upon first entering a store.
If you know anyone that is impulsive, spendy, and irresponsible,  do not let him/her read this book . Seriously.Because for any normal woman (or man) with above average impulsive shopping tendencies, this book will make him/her feel better about his/herself. Take me, for example. When I am confronted by a cute pair of shoes or some colorful household item, I get kind of...well...impulsive, spendy, and irresponsible. Sometimes, my willpower can overrule that temptation, though passing through the
. Seriously.Because for any normal woman (or man) with above average impulsive shopping tendencies, this book will make him/her feel better about his/herself.
Enough money for it to become a sizable investment, but little enough that it could probably be spent in a half a day if all that person did was shop couture.
After each failure, we watch her spend more money on things she doesn't need that leads her down a dark spiral of debt and self loathing.In a weird, twisted way, it's kind of entertaining and a little harrowing.
She's still a silly airhead after the book...
If you saw the movie before reading the book, you will not find many similarities in the movie and this book. the movie takes much of its content from the second Shopaholic book. I liked this book, I found it fun and quite humorous. I have to say I enjoyed the movie more than this first book. The character is a fun girl who has a real issue with her shopping habits. She is not very good with her money. This is a cute book.
Well I enjoy my light reads, particularly Marian Keyes, so I thought I'd get a kick out of the Shopaholic series-not so.The protagonist is irritating and irrational to the point of annoyance.I surmise though that this series and it's popularity has to do with how people view money.
I like shopping, but have never spent outside my means to the point of debt.
I don't fully get the "have-to-have-it" mentality ESPECIALLY with pricey goods.So I didn't relate to the character at all.I gave it one star because everything has it's place, and it was good I read it to find out that I didn't like it.haha
I can always count on Sophie Kinsella for a light and fun entertaining read.
En todos los grupos hay alguien a quien no le gustan las comedias románticas o tenemos alguna amiga a la cual no le agrada nada Meg Ryan y todo el "sleepless in Settle thing".Well, That's me. (Pero ese no es mi problema con esta novela)Me carga Meg Ryan, sobre todo sus malos retellings... Hello, "Tienes un Email"! ¡Si! ¡tú! ¡horrible película! D: Mejor, vean The Shop Around de Corner :) Si veo Kate y Leopold, es porque ... Hugh Jackman. El vestido de Lord inglés debería ser declarado patrimonio
Después de todo se supone que este género es ligero, liviano y adorable, ideal para un mal momento como este ¿verdad?Mmmmmm....Voy a ser clara, esta no es una mala novela.
La verdad es que leo muchos pepers y libros "académicos" en inglés y alguno en francés, pero me atrevo super poco con lo que es literatura en si, pues las metáforas y todo ese tipo de cosas, son más difíciles de comprender cuando no es tu idioma materno.
....¿De verdad, Sophie?D:Solo para pasar el mal rato, les dejo a Hugh :Dy de este pobrecito que sufrirá a Rebecca toda su vida ...(Aunque me gusta más la descripción del libro):)
setuju deh, soalnya gw samasekali gak ngerti ama "hobi" kaum cewe tentang shopping ini.
ceritanya tentang seorang becky yang tak bisa mengontrol hobi belanjanya sehingga dikejar-kejar surat tagihan dari bank padahal dia kerjanya jadi jurnalis keuangan, hahaha.
dasar nekat bin geblek :Danalisis super sotoy cowo nekat bin geblek: gini deh, buat cewe punya hobi shopping (gak perlu separah becky lah), mereka pasti suka buku ini.
At some point they can related the protagonis to themselves, tapi buat beberapa cewe (mungkin) they will find the protagonist irritated them, bisa jadi mereka gak terlalu suka ama buku ini.
simpati gw buat derek untuk "kesabaran dan ketabahannya" menghadapi becky :Ddah ah, mo shopping dulu nih.
My curiosity with this book has finally ended.In my humble opinion, the movie is a million times better. No....seriously, trust me. IT IS I'm just going to promote the movie and convince you guys to watch it. Why? Well kids....1)2) Yeah I was pretty much hoping those pictures proved my point so like, Watch. This. Shit. Now Y'all won't regret this !! I promise, you'll thank me. Okay, just thank me in the form of a $500 gift card to my local book store so I know it's real ;) ;) ;)
Funny.
Completely brainless.
Perfect beach book.
The main character is a completely out of control shopaholic, and will go to any lengths to conceal her addiction while still feeding it on the sly.
It's a thoroughly enjoyable book, but it has a fatal flaw, the flaw that made me give it a "liked it" rating instead of a "really liked it" rating.
It is almost physically painful to see her destroying her life for a new scarf or perfect shoes.
There are several more books in the series, most of which I've read.
I guess I'm a glutton for punishment when it's funny and entertaining punishment.
I do re-read this book every couple of years.
She's working at a job she hates (writer at Successful Saving) while trying to pay down her bills due to how much she loves shopping.
Due to Becky not really paying attention at her job, she realizes a tip she gives a family friend could end up harming them and starts to get her life back on track.
Nothing spectacular, but honestly, sometimes I want to read a fluffy book that makes me root for a character.
