https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827683.Twilight_in_Delhi
The story of Mir Nihal and his family is a classic, and the novel brings to life Old Delhi and its inhabitants in a way that you can actually feel them, hold them.I've always been convinced that novels, in a way, are also about the places in which they are set.
ہوا کچھ ہوں کہ داستاں شروع ہوئی اور ماحول پر گہری اداسی اور یاسیت چھانے لگی۔ دل پر وہی کائناتی تنہائ
The British had only built a new capital outside the city walls. The present rulers have removed the last vestige on which the old culture could have taken its stand and are moving it farther away towards Indraprastha, affirming the prophecy of the book: Seven Delhis have fallen, and the eighth has gone the way of its predecessors, yet to be demolished and built again. Life, like the phoenix, must collect the spices of its nest and set fire to it, and arise resurrected out of the flames. To me,
Lo and behold, came Ahmed Ali with this book, who resurrected this city with all the emotions and liveliness vividly that one's heart goes to Delhi, to look at the city differently once done with reading.More than the city, the novel evokes the lifestyle of Delhites of early 1900's - the year when King George was coronated and the British brought the city under its command fully.
The city has transmogrified, the crowd has forgotten, but Mir Nihal's pride and identity is much evoked by the sadness which engulfs him and his voicelessness to say the truth to the now forgotten people.The tone of the author is nostalgic and his unbridled admiration for the glory of the lost culture has the whimsical nature of a lover which longs for his lost love.
At such times the sky was made red with the flames that shot up from the burning earth.”As Ahmed Ali continues his story of ruin, love and broken hopes in the Muslim Delhi, Mahatma Gandhi was holding his action of peaceful resistance in South Africa and more decades would pass before the Independence and the dreams of Midnight's Children would be written by Salman Rushdie.
Speaking about the Atlantic, 1911 was exactly the year when the Titanic was launched in Belfast.The heat that summer caused fires not only in Delhi.
Set in pre-partition India, the novel conjures a magical world of Old Delhi and a sense of nostalgia for passing of the Old world along with its culture, traditions, myths etc.
Chronicler of history, we see an entire different Delhi with the eyes of Mir Nahal which is no longer available to us.
However, with progression of novel, we see the passing of this world and its replacement by unfamiliar world, symbolized by the construction of the eighth city by the British.
The novel is an interesting read for anyone fascinated by old Delhi (Shahjahanabad) and its culture and traditions which are lost today.
I am so sorry for not liking this book as it is a part of our course this semester. *sigh* Papers and exams will only make me more impatient with this. -_-
The novel is a lyrical portrait of Delhi just before and during the First World War, when the Home Rule Movement had started and “a fire of anger and hate had been ignited in the hearts of Indians.” The book mourns the loss of old Delhi following the end of Mughal rule in 1857, described in the introduction as “the blind persecution and massacre of the citizens of Delhi”.
The evocation of Delhi and of its daily life and colour centres round the family of the patriarch Mir Nihal, and Ahmed Ali does not refrain from comment upon the status of women’s roles in Indian society of the time and how it shaped them.
Twilight in Delhi is the story of Mir Nihal and his family staying in a livid mohalla in Old Delhi. Doused in elaborate descriptions, Ahmed Ali takes you through an era during which the British takes power from the last mughal ruler. What I loved the best is the Sufi poetry and couplets which are sprinkled all over the narration.That said, having seen brilliant flowing prose about Muslim communities from other Muslim writers, this seem slightly jagged in comparison.
The main protagonist is Mir Nihal, the head of the household of an upper middle class Muslim family in Delhi.
I often felt wanting to get myself transported into that era in order to escape the hustle and bustle of today’s life.The story revolves around Mir Nihal’s family and Asghar, his youngest son occupies quite a few chapters in the book.
Mir Nihal feels saddened as he recalls the atrocities committed by the British after the 1857 revolution.
The book would interest those who want to know about life in pre-independence Delhi and do not mind viewing it through the eyes of a middle class family.
This book has been on my 'To read' list since two years now.
Indeed book is a classic - it chronicles the period when last Mughal king had collapsed, his relations reduced to beggars and maids and coronation of King George is about to take place.
It chronicles the lives and times of Nihal family.
As always, there are apples who kowtow to whoever rules and those who can't breathe in air that is devoid of freedom.
I read it as a chronicle of period.
But yes, I can tick off another Delhi classic on my list.
A poetic semi-historical novel on the Old Delhi. Best passage from the novel is when Mir Nihal's mistress passes away and to add to his worries,he comes back home to find many of his pigeons killed by a cat. The despair and emptiness is captured so evocatively by Ahmed Ali in these pages.
review to come soon..
Do not expect too much out of the ordinary from this book and you shall not be disappointed. I especially liked the slow pace of the book and descriptions of lifestyle of pre-partition Delhi .. makes you feel that you are a part of that era.
Quoting William Dalrymple in City of Djinns, he says, “Twilight in Delhi is not only a very fine novel, it is also an irreplaceable record of the vanished life and culture of pre-war Delhi.” If you’re as much charmed by Delhi as all those gone by (and the admins of this blog), you’d have an idea of what we’re getting at here.I have a friend who has traveled around the world quite a bit.
Mir Nahal’s sadness drips off the page.Twilight in Delhi is a portrait of a city and its culture.
Belongs to the time and part of Delhi I am least familiar with and so it took a while to get the book going for me.
The central theme of the book probably is "being with the time".
Once you get this idea that nothing out of ordinary is going to happen and the story is going to pace by the hours and the minutes of the day, you can appreciate the inanities of life, so lyrically presented.
Life goes on with a heartless continuity, trampling ideals and worlds under its ruthless feet....
Set in a Delhi of second decade of 20th century, its not just an obituary of a dilapidated city and its overhaul but also an insight of customs, family ties and outlook of muslims society of that era which ,whether acceptable or not, is not quite eroded by the storms of time.
Fraught with prose, this book has a melancholic and yet beautiful matrix to support a common household tale which by no means challenge your realistic mind and yet does not fail to grasp your faculties and deep seated emotions of love in all its facets as it comes naturally.
You despise the relentless flow of life just as much as you despise putting down 'Twilight in Delhi'.
This novel is unnecessarily long making it dull and boring for readers.
Story is also not very interesting either - more like a biography of Mir Nehal (main character) set in the background of Old Delhi rather than a novel.On a plus side, it describes the culture of Muslims of Old Delhi in quite depth and mentions some of the historical (and less reported) events of British period affecting Delhi.
Language of the book is also beautiful with abundance of Urdu and Persian poetry translations.If you are keen about Indian culture and day to day lives of people in India during British era - try this.Looking for a leisure read?
A book mentioned in 'City of Djinns'by William Dalrymple. I took his advice and what a read it has been. Took me to an era when Delhi was undergoing a tremendous change. A change where the old culture and customs were replaced by the influx of new. Ahmed Ali eloquently describes the impact these changes had on the residents of Delhi. Fell in love with Delhi again; there are so many layers to this city!Highly recommended read.
Remarkably ordinary book that has unnecessarily been elevated in status. Flat descriptive writing. Amazingly shallow character development and at the end of the book, you come out feeling you did not gain any insight in to a time period that the book attempted to explain. It would probably add value to someone who has been living under a rock and has no idea about Indian traditions in general and Islamic traditions in particular. Go read the Wikipedia page on India in the 20th century instead.
crepuscolo di un'erastoria di una famiglia musulmana di Delhi alla fine del secolo scorso, il racconto è di quelli dinastici, con gli intrecci parentali e le storie che si incrociano con la connotazione storicaabituata com'ero agli strali di Rushdie verso il governo e gli inglesi ho trovato questo racconto molto meno incisivo di come l'avrei preferito, è come se raccontasse un'epoca attraverso il filtro della nostalgia per la sua fine...
The landscape of early 20th Century Delhi is well captured, with its mystic, politic and historic. The princes turned beggars, the Hakims, the Sufis, the Muslim families, Zenana and Mardana, the Farangis , everything. Daily life is depicted poetic. The clash of older patriotic religious generations and the new generations who admire the English and follow it culturally.
Amazing write up on pre-Independence Delhi....the life of Mir Nihal and his family ...their survival through all the ups and downs of life.
Must read for anyone who is in love with Delhi or wants to be
I'm thinking well.
Synopsis:  The story is about the Saiyyed family, specifically Mir Nihal and his young adult son Asghar. They live their life in that part of Delhi, an area entirely devoid of the British rule. It is a family drama about their lives as well as those of their relatives and friends. Review:   Delhi was once a paradise,Such peace had abided here;But they have ravished its name and pride,Remain now only ruins and care. - Bahadur ShahFirst published in 1940, the author's prose reads like poetry, suc
The main characters in the book are Mir Nihal, a 62-year-old male, and his youngest son, Asghar, aged 22.
The author doesn’t make his character favour a son over a daughter, but I couldn't see any reason, and nor was one provided, as to what drove away Asghar from Bilqeece, the one he had married for love!Part IV is about diseases, death, the frailty of human life; while the greed of grave-diggers knows no bounds.The hustle and bustle at the beginning of the book gave way to death and desolation towards the end.
What little plot there is revolves around the happenings in the household of Mir Nihal.
The women in the book have little agency.
But that unquestioning glorification of even the bits that deserve change is to be expected in a novel so steeped in nostalgia.By the end of the book, I felt like I had been made to sit through one hundred ghazals.
Just as Aavarana mourns the destruction and desecration of Hindus and Varanasi at the hands of Muslim invaders, Twilight in Delhi describes the “Dilli” of Bahadur Shah and the Mughals that was lost to the invading British.Read both.

Twilight in Delhi is about the life of several related upper middle class persons in Delhi around the year 1900. Ahmed Ali does a good job of putting words to the smells, sounds and sights of the Indian city back then. Politics and religion also play significant roles in the book.A nice read at about the right length of about 200 pages.
I wasn't disappointed.Through several characters and various chapters of their lives, the novel shows the daily life in the old delhi, right in the middle of its slow decline.
However, while author steers clear of passing a judgment, he highlights the pain of his women characters to show a sense of solidarity.With British having a built a new capital at New Delhi, its old cousin was loosing its sheen with many of its walls and mosques already demolished by the white rulers.The novel also tries to show a sense of defeat in its old citizens and anticipation of new opportunities among it's young characters.
One life ends, another is born, but the city lives on as it has for centuries; maimed, attacked and demolished but alive.Read it to feel the charms of old delhi.
But what it did do is to take me into the strange workings of mind of women who lived in Zenana of that era.
Filled with superstition, traditions, bllind acceptance.....Were the people of that era really so emotionally driven?
Some authors make you cringe at the way they portray unhappiness, but here it all just seemed to flow......Yes I suppose there was a flow in the book, albeit a little slow.
So in the end I would say it was an easy read, a little slow but something you would want to complete, the characters make you want to reach a conclusion!
