https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61974.Nerilka_s_Story
Another fantastic story of Pern.
This one is during the same time as Moreta.
Nerilka is a beautiful soul who just can't stand how her father is with the people in her hold and the area around.
Her father is a cold man that I haven't liked in either book.
She has had enough of his nonsense, so she leaves the hold to find her own way.
Her mother taught her everything she knows and she is able to take that with her after the loss of her mother and sisters to the sickness that has decimated Pern.
I thoroughly enjoyed this short story as a continuation of Moreta.
I can see why this was where I quit on the series on my first attempt many years ago. This isn't a terrible story, but it doesn't do anything to move the overall plot of the series forward and does very little to build important characters or to enrich the reader's understanding of Pern. It feels extra.
I felt like she was worthy of a book all her own- a strong woman who may not be considered “special” but IS special just by the good life she’s led.
If I were five years younger I would’ve been disappointed in the romance of the book, but as a grown woman who has experienced the many different levels, trials, and heartbreaks of love I felt very satisfied with where Nerilka ended up and appreciated her relationship for its base of honor, hard work, and kindness and also approved of its stability and simplicity.
This novella, set in McCaffrey’s epic world of Pern, is stylistically more like a Regency romance than a science-fiction short story.
Nerilka’s father, in defiance of the quarantine, leaves his dying wife and daughters to return home to Fort Hold, where upon hearing of their death, installs his mistress, Anella, and her extended family in the Fort.
I remembered this book as being a charming little story, but upon re-reading, found that it has not aged well — which is funny, seeing that it is science fiction set in the distant future.
This is my third Pern read.
"Dragondrums" featured a Ray Liotta look-alike in the cover art and this one features a Nerilka who looks like Sandra Bernhard with a nose job - very tall.Finished last night with this rather brief and sketchy Pern tale.
As others have noted there's not a lot of dragon action in this one.
Not a lot of action at all as a matter for fact.
Like "Dragondrums," it's a side story.
Moreta is a major Pern character in another book, while Nerilka appears briefly.
I assume the explanation is in the "Moreta ..." book!
Lord Alessan is in need of help to fight the plague. With the Dragonriders loosing respect, the holders aren't doing their part. Then again, some of these dragonriders have been abusing their privileges. Nerilka is the one who saves the day. I liked her, especially as she is the overlooked one. I was mixed about this story as Alessan loved Moreta and lost her. Somehow, Nerilka felt like a second place replacement. It was kind of discomforting to me. She's always "second" place.
I feel like this is a can't miss companion to Moreta's story. If you like Moreta, you need Nerilka's Story in your library too! A definite departure though, written in first person from the perspective of an older Nerilka looking back.
I loved this little bittersweet romance
Je trouve dommage de tomber sur un tel tome dans une saga que j'adore !Ce tome est la suite directe de La Dame aux dragons, du cycle interne de L'Épidémie (qui ne compte d'ailleurs que ces deux tomes).
C'est Nerilka qui raconte (à la première personne pour la première fois dans la saga) ce qui s'est passé de son point de vue.
Je ne comprends pas.Franchement, s'il y a un tome que vous pouvez allègrement sauter, c'est celui-ci, il ne sert pas à grand-chose, n'apporte aucun nouvel élément (à part peut-être les 10 dernières pages), mais bon, rien d'indispensable.
This particular tale in the series is very enjoyable, and a quick read.
The reason I enjoy this book so much is due to it's intertwined connection the Moreta story.
In the first two trilogies of this series the Legend of Moreta's ride is often mentioned.
Then, Anne McCaffrey actually writes the story behind that legend.
Now, the brief novella of Nerilka takes and almost non-existent character from the Moreta story and retells the tale from her point of view.
Between the second perspective on these historic events in Pern's history and the engaging story telling style of McCaffrey, this is a must read for the true Pern lover.
I liked this book, it was a quick read and kind of cool to see from Nerilka's point of view as she was just a minor character in the previous book.
However, it was not terribly exciting and about 80% of the book was exactly the same events as the previous one, just from a different point of view.
I did appreciate the last 20% where you get to see a few characters you care about end up in different places.
I look forward to reading about something different, the first Fall on Pern, in the next book.
This is a short parallel novella to Moreta Dragonlady of Pern. It was an interesting read but not a necessary read in the grand scape of the Pern series.Nerilka is the daughter of the Lord Holder of Fort Hold. She is left behind there when the plague breaks out and is spared illness but had to deal with her mother's death, her father quickly taking his mistress as his new wife, and her father's insolence about the plague and sharing supplies.
Love this series of books. It's one of my all time favourites. I decided to re-read the entire Dragonriders of Pern series and over the past couple of months, I have been working my way through them all. Anne McCaffrey has such a wonderful, boundless imagination and such a vivid and descriptive style, her stories transport the reader into the fantastic world that she created and sweeps you up on the breathtaking adventures. Spellbinding!
If McCaffrey and taken Moreta and Nerilka and somehow made them into one book with alternating perspectives, I think it would have made a much more engaging story. It gets a little tedious reading the same dialogue in this book that was in Moreta. And again, the ending of this book is spoiled in the previous one, so there are no surprises. It's a nice enough story, but not one of the best in the Pern series.
As with all her books and especially this series.... Just brilliant. Her books make you want to just lay in the hammock (I spend a lot of time in the hammock reading books) for hours at a time and wish you actually lived in this fantasy world and felt like you could start talking to these characters without even blinking an eye.
According to my entry in 1996, this is the 3rd Pern novel, but according to goodreads it's #8! Norilka's father is a head of a Hold and she leaves and becomes part of a different one. Much better than it sounds!
I have always liked this bookI have always liked this book it gives you a real sense of how much info can be left out of some stories and what can be done to add another person's life thoughts to it all
This was the first book in which I heard about Pern. I liked Nerilka a lot and want to read more of the series about Pern. This story takes a minor character from one of the other books and tells her story. It was fun to read and I will check out more in Pern soon.
This was a short one. It was OK, but I was hoping there would be more detail about the major events, like what happened after Moreta’s accident, but before the hatching. Four example, how were the selfish Lord holder and the defected weyer leader punished?
This is the continuation of the plague of Pern story line begun in Moreta: Dragonlady of Pern. Nerilka is a minor character (or so it seemed) in the Moreta book. This tells a chunk of the same story from a different perspective. Make sure you read Moreta's story before this one.
Šis jau vairāk atgādināja Džeinu Eiru, nevis fantāzijas grāmatu, bet tieši tas man arī sērijā visvairāk patīk - daudzveidība gan varoņos, gan stāstos un tas, cik lielā mērā tiek parādīta pasaules ikdiena.
Nerilka is such a strong character. When the plague hits, she doesn't give in to fear but takes what she wants and works for the future she desires. It was interesting to see the other side of the Moreta story.
Anne McCaffrey is the quintessential writer of fantasy books pertaining to dragons. These books are always wonderful, well written, and perfectly characterized. All of her series are great but the ones that take place on Pern are the best of all. A thoroughly fun and engaging read.
I read this several years ago and I don't remember it very well. I saved the book so I must have liked the story (no guarantee though).
By most of the action of the story being told in the previous book this one just gets to focus so solidly on Nerilka. I loved her growth and character.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as the other. It didn't feel like a Pern book. The timeline felt off. Everything seemed to happen in two or three days, while Moretta's story made it feel longer. I also hated how McCaffrey put Rill and Alessan in a relationship. That's a -100 on the romance meter.
Possibly my favorite Pern Story ever. Heartbreak and Redemption with a beautiful love story woven through.
More of a 3+. Not really enough to distinguish it from Moreta.
Eh could have done without this but still read it. Decent writing.
Short, tight, unapologetic and a little distant
