https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/189555.The_Coming_of_the_French_Revolution
Two revolutions in two different countries.
In one, the bloodthirsty inhabitants turned to a Reign of Terror to achieve their objectives.
The differences between the French and American Revolutions have always intrigued me, which is why I picked up this paperback.
This is not an overview of the later Reign of Terror or the beginning of the Empire, so the focus is very strong and full of details.Still, I wonder how the future of France would have turned if there had been stronger protagonists.
The Coming of the French Revolution undoubtedly remains one of the leading examples of the Marxist interpretation of the French Revolution, with Georges Lefebvre's approach seeing him attempt to explain the period "from below".
First, the nobility, through the Assembly of Notables, challenged the authority of the king, before the "bourgeois" revolution of the Third Estate was followed by, and gave fuel to, uprisings by the "workers" and, finally, the "peasants", with each section of society having collective interests that drove their actions.As mentioned in my review of François Furet's Interpreting the French Revolution, many facets of the Marxist, or "classical", interpretation of the revolution were challenged by the revisionists of the latter part of the twentieth century, but Lefebvre's arguments nonetheless remain compelling and fascinating in equal measure.
Lefebvre suggests a kind of revolutionary cascade: what started as a power struggle between the King and the aristocracy spilled over into the bourgeoisie when the Estates General were called in the spring/summer of 1789, and the actions that took place there spurred wider revolutionary action in the poorer classes of the cities and countryside.
It's considered a classic of the Marxist interpretation of the French Revolution, and I think on the whole that's pretty fair.
I think his work on the whole would have been a bit stronger if he considered these a bit more instead of putting such heavy weight on the economic factors.
"Liberty is by no means an invitation to indifference or to irresponsible power; nor is it the promise of unlimited well-being without a counterpart of toil and effort.
It supposes application, perpetual effort, strict government of self, sacrifice in contingencies, civic and private virtues.
It is therefore more difficult to live as a free man than to live as a slave, and that is why men so often renounce their freedom; for freedom is in its way an invitation to a life of courage, and sometimes of heroism, as the freedom of the Christian is an invitation to a life of sainthood." (p.
218)"Revolutionary action takes place in the realm of the spirit." (p.
Great introduction to the first stage of the French Revolution from a top-notch French historian. In addition, the translation is by the distinguished American historian R.R. Palmer. Very clear cut and nicely written.
Solid, but nowhere near as good as his full The French Revolution which was to come.
Mostly concerned with the events of the Spring and Summer of 1789, Lefebvre does a masterful job at discussing the minute events that led to the Revolution and interjects some analysis in where the Revolution could have been derailed by different personalities or different actions.
Lefebvre also goes a little further in debunking some of the popular interpretations of the Revolution such as the Tennis Court Oath and the March of the Women to Paris, neither of which, he argues, was significant.
It was these separate phenomena that led to the initial success and confusion of the Revolution.
Lefebvre treats the various classes of France as discrete interest groups.
They were responsible for a four-phased revolution: first, the nobility challenged the authority of the king, then the bourgeoisie challenged the nobility, then the workers of Paris rose up to support the bourgeoisie, and then the peasants of the provinces arose against the feudal system that had oppressed them for centuries.
Lefebvre describes each of these classes as keenly conscious of its collective interests.Lefebvre stops his account in 1789, with the king a virtual but not yet a literal prisoner in Paris.

A very readable, very enjoyable, very informative explanation of the immediate causes and first couple years of the French Revolution.
Although I felt that the translation was a bit weak at points (there were sentences that just didn't feel natural), it was still both very enjoyable and very informative.
In many ways it reaffirms many of the (by this point) mainstream understandings of the Revolution, but it is also important to remember this is a work from the mid-20th century which informs and inherently shapes our notions now.
I would highly recommend this book, especially as a jumping-off point or a basic survey of the early years of the Revolution.
Only runs up to the Parisians dragging Louis XVI back to the Tuileries, but goes into way depth explaining how it all came about. Considering the only things I knew about the French Revolution before this was it was incredibly complicated, dragged on for a century, and was super bloody.Also, as a hair trigger hothead it was pretty neat to see how ballsy people were back then. Just because a revolution sometimes ends in horrible bloodshed, I see no reason that crooked people in positions of power shouldn't be drug out in the street and massacred.
Reading in conjunction with Mike Duncan's Revolutions podcast serieshttp://www.revolutionspodcast.com/201...Includes a good summary of peasant property rights. A class-based analysis de-emphasizing the entertaining personal foibles that contributed to the destabilization of the Old Regime.For details about the origins of the adminstrative and economic elements of the Ancien Regime: https://archive.org/details/manners_c...
I liked the book, but the translation was "iffy." It's an older edition, though, and it looks like the newer one has a different translator. It was definitely an interesting read and clarified/added to what I learned about the Revolution in school. I would recommend it to anyone with an interest in the time period. As a warning, though, there is a lot of somewhat dense information about the taxing, manorial, and other "Old Regime" systems that can be confusing and/or boring.
A good basic intro to the events/conditions in France that led up to the Rev, especially the economic situation; but i'm looking forward to Lefebvre's longer work on the Rev b/c this one was a bit cursory, and not enough focused in my view on the extraordinary Characters that impacted the early stages...
In the study of history there are a number of must-read books, often read not because one *wants* to but because one *needs* to. "The Coming of the French Revolution" is one of those must-read, classic books; but most of all, readers of all abilities will be delighted by the accessibility and sheer persuasive power of this short study of the causes of the French Revolution.
Without already knowing quite a few details about the Revolution, one would be lost in this book. That said, it was the perfect book for someone who already knows much of this. It's the classical (Marxist) interpretation of the Revolution, and has since been critiqued by revisionists and post-revisionists. Nevertheless, I still find that this argument is most convincing.
simple, unbiased, interesting. a history from the eye of an omniscient birds' eye. doesn't get weighted down with personal sentiment or conjecture. does entertain by recognizing the value of chance and personality in the revolution.
The classic neo-marxist explanation for the origins of the French revolution. While historians have seemingly come to accept that the revolution was political, with social ramification, Lefabvre's explanation of a social event with political affect is important.
If your only way of connecting to the French Revolution in the past has been Les Miserables, this book is it. Easy to read and actually a page turner, you will realize that storming the Bastille and creating an Assembly declaring the rights of man in fact were not accompanied by songs.
“Yawn, yawn: boring,” Heavens knows I tried, but I found this book to be so tedious… It was like repeatedly reading the chapter about Politics in the book about Belgium, but with many, many more pages.
A must read for any French Revolution course or Historiography lesson, I will dig up my notes and add to this review later. I really enjoyed this one and it was a quick read.
Not a bad introduction to the Revolution, the writing is a bit dry though and the Marxist interpretation no longer passes historical scrutiny. Still, Lefebvre was among the better ones.
Probably the first really serious work of history I was ever asked to read.
My cover is different than what is shown for this ISBN, and my edition only has 233 pages.
So I read this, and I still don't know if I really get the French Revolution; only because there were SO MANY players and SO MANY reasons. Yes, that simply means that I must read more about it!
The overall thesis? The French Revolution was from the top-down, and not a revolt from the peasantry. Also, he supports idea of the inorganic nature of the revolution.
A classic Marxist take on the French Revolution. A good video summary of the work and its arguments can be found here : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FxKZS...
Excellent book on well, the French Revolution. Highly recommended. I believe it is still considered a key text. Or at least it was when I was studying it.
