https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/782050.The_Mind_of_the_Maker
I finally read it! I'm not sure how much of it sank into my sleep-deprived brain, but the bits I remember were excellent. Sayers thinks of the craft of writing much the same way I have for years, but far more systematically and in far greater depth.
I recall seeing people talking about how the science of quantum physics is showing relationship as the core of the universe and maybe that's true.
But most people don't get quantum physics.
Perhaps it was that a lot of her examples of writers were people in her day who I am not familiar with.
Or maybe I was just a poor reader and once I got the gist of the book I was ready to move on (I think of that CS Lewis book I just read).
Overall, its a good book with lots of thoughtful observations, even if it does get to be a bit tedious.
It feels a bit like entering an argument en media res, but that's not so uncommon in intros.In the beginning of the second chapter, she talks about the commandment about making and/or worshiping graven images.
She then begins to equate the "graven images" of the commandment with verbal and mental imaginings.
It has nothing at all to do with her premise that the main anthropomorphic feature of her god is creativity.I probably ought to carry on with my reading - I haven't even gotten to the meat of her argument yet (which is apparently drawing parallels between the Holy Trinity and the creative writing process) but this book was a long shot of a book to begin with and if she's going to make these sorts of fallacious comparisons while prefacing them with griping about how people don't read her essays carefully enough - well...
Sayers conveys her thoughts as to how humans are made "in the image of God." She explains that the first thing we are told about God (through His Word) is that "God created...." and artists also "create..." We are most like our God when we exhibit his love and our work in a “finite” yet glorious way while we create something -- whether it is a story, a song, a painting, a sculpture, a photo, or dance.Her theory that humans are each a trinity unto ourselves when we are in the process of creating art.
The Father, Son, and Holy Spirit correspond to what Sayers calls the Idea, Energy, and Power.
For a writer, the Idea is the book as he first imagines it; the Energy is the book as actually written; the Power is the impression it makes in the mind of each reader.
Even better, not only did I learn about a theological concept, I got to learn more about the writing and creative process.
This certainly will get multiple re-reads down the road.
Also, sometimes I found I could only agree with her so far.
Or perhaps I should say, I could only follow her so far with the limited definitions she provides.
For example, her critique of capitalism was a fair one and I agree that often creativity is sacrificed for productivity.
The capitalism critique/creativity problem stuck out in my mind because that is an area I give a lot of thought.
It's really amazing how Sayers makes us understand certain mysterious aspects of God through examining the creative process of the artist's mind.
The last few chapters discussed some issues I wasn't expecting (such as how we can use the maker's mindset in approaching real life), which to be honest, disappointed me a little because all I wanted was more insights into how the writer's mind mirrors God's.
Except to say that she says the experience of the writing author mirrors the concept of the Trinity (and then proceeds to attempt to do what he said he could not).
But I know I'm going to have to read it again to get more from it because many of the ideas flew directly over this little chimpanzee's head.I love this:"It was said, sneeringly, by someone that if a clam could conceive of God, it would conceive of Him in the shape of a great, big clam.
164).There's more of the like, but I'll let you read it.
I don't have a proper Goodreads bookshelf for this: it's an exposition of the Trinity, but it's also just what the title says - a look into the workings of the creative, or artistic, mind.
Sayers plainly states the doctrine of the Trinity and then proceeds to show how the mind of a human creator follows the same pattern of the Godhead: Father-Idea, Son-Energy, and Spirit-Power.
She defends an admittedly cloudy doctrine in clear terms, traces the workings of the human mind in creation, and delivers a powerful argument for every man and woman being made to be a maker.
fantastic, this is one of those books that has shifted my way of seeing God work and the world. Sayers helped to see the heresies that my personality predisposes me to believe. that is a great gift.
But the simple fact is I couldn’t understand or follow her an unfortunate amount of the time.The premise of this book is that understanding God as Creator informs our own creative work.
Sayers talks about how the inherent creativity of human nature applies even in pursuits that are not creative in a purely artistic sense.She suggests problems should be dealt with in a creative way versus a mathematical way, “not expecting to ‘solve’ them by a detective trick, but to ‘make something of them,’ even when they are, strictly speaking, insoluble.” Writing in the days just before World War II, she points to the failed pursuit of peace that was World War I.
Thought-provoking and encouraging, but headyFans of Chesterton and Lewis, particularly writers, will enjoy this exploration of the creative spirit by a master thinker. The style is consistently one of deep thought, though not obtuse.
This happens to be one of my favorite books. I reread it often and have kind of a semi-tradition of starting it on Trinity Sunday. I find Sayers' analogies helpful in thinking both about theology and about writing.
This little gem offers scope to the life of the writer—to any artist—and gives perspective to the relationship with God and humanity.
Christian creeds are the former."The proper question to be asked about any creed is not, "Is it pleasant?" but, "is it true?""Chapter 2:-Man created in the image of God = we are like Him in His creativity, albeit in a lesser way.
Dorothy Sayers is perhaps best known for her detective fiction and for her essay (originally a talk) The Lost Tools of Learning (one of the reference points of the classical education renaissance).
Or perhaps it would be more accurate to say it is a treatise on how artistic creation illuminates the Christian doctrine of the Trinity and of God as Creator.
I'm not sure which would best capture her aim.
But I am sure it is a book unlike any I have ever read, a book that feels as though it is from another world (not unlike the works of Lewis and Tolkien).
Dorothy Sayers explores the creative 'trinity' of the artist (Idea, the father of the creative work; Energy, whereby the work is created; and Power, the effect which the work has on others) and relates it too the triune nature of God himself.
I really relate to how she talks about the relationship between creative people and others, especially the government and society at large, who tend to look down on such artists as whimsical people with unrealistic mindsets, whereas they are actually expressing a creative nature endowed in them by God. All in all, this was an absolutely amazing book and definitely worth reading.
This work, while at times it meanders into side thoughts or gets bogged down in literary examples that will be unfamiliar to most, is gold for any one who considers themselves a creative artist.
Sayers uses a protracted analogy between the Trinity of Father, Son, and Spirit to discuss the creative process and the relations between Idea (Father), Energy (Son), and Power (Spirit).
The section on creative "heresies" where the relation of these elements of the creative process to one another are out of balance, mirroring the historical heresies of the early centuries of the church, is particularly interesting.
I guess I was just expecting some simple comparisons of how the mind of man is like the mind of the Creator God, but thanks to the helpful introduction by Madeline L'Engle, I realized I was in for some deep reading. It wasn't until the second chapter that I fully understood Dorothy Sayers' approach. She brilliantly analyzes some statements in the Christian creeds about God the Creator to explain how man is also a creator. The book definitely merits a reread in the future.
Among the noise of the various competing postmodernist approaches to literary theory, from neo-Marxism to feminism to deconstructionism, it often seems that the traditional Christian worldview and its accompanying approach to the production, interpretation, and understanding of literature have been buried in the morass.
On the contrary, as Sayers shows us, the Christian approach to literature remains quite relevant and is, perhaps, the only truly complete and ultimately compelling approach.Sayers begins her book with the thesis that the Imago Dei, the image of God in man, is creativity.
It is, in part, an attempt to elucidate the nature of God (and many of the questions that accompany belief in God, such as questions about evil, free will, and sin) by way of metaphorical comparison to the act of writing.
God's omnipotence and man's free will does makes more sense in the light of that particular feature of writing!), I must confess that it often left me more confused than not, and, at times, I simply wasn't following her argument.
The book seemed to lack focus at times, or perhaps it was I who lacked focus, having been often interrupted by two young children.
Sayers, your erudition and classic university training are showing.
I usually find Sayers to be easy to understand, even when her classic university training is showing and she throws in Latin and French for good measure.
No rating--I'm quite sure it's excellent (DLS always is), but I can't very well rate something that I can't really understand properly.
Oh, I get the analogies in their simplest forms and I get some of the illustrations she makes to prove her points while reading--but I couldn't properly explain to you right now this minute what she really said without cheating and peeking at the book.
I loved the introduction by Madeleine L'Engle, in part because it clarified for me where she got the idea of 'serving the work' which is such a prominent aspect of Walking on Water: Reflections on Faith and Art. In fact, the concept is much more easy to understand here with just a few sentences than the fuller explanation elsewhere.
Only going to prove that sometimes, less really is more.For some reason I struggled with the rest of the book.
I made the mistake, I think, of trying to read it for refreshment.
Whereas really I needed to be refreshed first before I could tackle it.
Another book for the 're-read in the holidays' pile.
This book was a little difficult to get into a first, but well worth it.
I have pulled so many quotes and chewed on several thoughts throughout my time in this that I plan to engage it again at some point.
As a Christian, I realize I don't think enough about the Trinity.
As a maker, one who mirrors God's creativity, this stretched me in different ways as to how I create, why I create, and why sometimes my creations fail, sometimes, to meet their mark.
I felt completely uplifted throughout this book.
I highly recommend it for the other "creatives" out there.
This is a really fascinating look at discerning the mind of God using his image bearers as an analogy.
I'm sure many have done (or attempted) this before but it is my first foray into this mode of analysis.
Sayers uses the creative artist, specifically his method and product, to see God's creative character in the world and mankind as an ongoing work of "creation." She also uses the "trinitarian" nature of artistic creation (idea, energy, power) as analogy for God's work in man and creation.I'm sorry to say that my attention wasn't focused enough (or more likely I'm just not smart enough) to fully appreciate her argument.
Amid all the possible analogies that may be used to attempt to explain God (and they can only ever be incomplete attempts), Sayers expounds one: God as a writer or author, and creation as his work. In her hands it is remarkably fruitful, describing the basics of Christian theology in original and illuminating ways. I think I would appreciate it better if I were an actual writer; an actual writer would also be in a better position to quibble with it.
An engaging exposition of the vestigia trinitatis in art. You don't need to buy Augustine's trinitarianism (I don't) to benefit from this book (I did), but I suspect you'd find it even more convincing.
Brilliant in concept, beautiful in execution and powerfully moving. Reading it again, after ten years, I find it still enlightening.
No one else I've read has drawn such strong and comprehensible parallels between the creative process and the nature of God.
Sayers was a well-known British author and literary critic who used her personal experiences as an artist to delve into the issue of how human creativity is analogous to the image of God.Specifically, she speaks of the create process in the mind of the maker (i.e., an artist) as having three primary components: Idea, Energy and Power.
Sayers points out that while both good and evil characters exist and are the expression of the mind of the maker, they do not imply that the evil characters are a faithful representation of the writer's own nature.
The basic thesis is that the Holy Trinity (father/son/holy ghost) is paralleled by the creative mind (the Idea of the work, the Energy of the act of creation, and the Power of the completed work).
So one can learn a lot about how to be an effective writer (in Sayers's case) by looking at the model of the creation of the Universe.
by looking at how good writing works and seeking parallels in our Existence.Wow. So sometimes I think, "Wow, that's kind of amazing how that really works!"--especially when she uses the idea of an author giving literary characters free will to illustrate God's relationship with humans and the necessity of evil.
