https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20819685-the-bone-clocks
"What happened to him?" "Didn't he just love David Mitchell?" "He wouldn't shut up about him!" And then the marauding hordes would rise out of the woodworks, tear me from my home, and tie me to the stake, set those sticks ablaze, crying, "Traitor!
The interesting thing is that David Mitchell, in many ways, has already reviewed his own book.
It's true, the fantasy plot in Bone Clocks is crammed into the other stories, and it is such a jarring shift in tone that it derails the novel; it threw me out of reality that Mitchell tries so hard to create.
When the plot lands and Mitchell does explain the mechanism behind the mysteries, we're a good 450 pages into the novel.
I read Albert Camus and I read Jorge Luis Borges.
I read Milan Kundera and I read Malcolm Lowry.
I read Richard Ford and I read Doris Lessing.
I read Lawrence Durrell and I read Saul Bellow.
I read Samuel Beckett and I read Jim Harrison.
I read Emily Bronte and I read Michel Tournier.
I found this novel to be quite profound in parts, a love letter to family, an ode to imagination, a dire warning to humanity about the next fifty years.
I read it based on the rave reviews I saw, but found it as close to unreadable as any I've come across.The first chapter is by far the best of the book, after this, the author goes off on tangents using language, terms, and words that were completely foreign to me.The story is all over the place and I was completely lost regarding character progression, relationships, and the overall storyline.
Soon, I found myself skimming as I was oh, so tired.
I may have missed a few parts, due to skimming, but in the end, nothing offered closure of any kind.
“For one voyage to begin, another voyage must come to an end, sort of.” Your déjà-vu is real (or maybe you're a Prescient). Yes, you've seen something of this sort before. Six interconnected stories told in the first person, combined to create a novel, radiating like raindrop rings on water - or maybe the walls of a concentric maze leading to the elusive center - from a central overarching theme. You've seen it from David Mitchell not that long ago, in the hit-smash-success Cloud Atlas. You'll
Six interconnected stories told in the first person, combined to create a novel, radiating like raindrop rings on water - or maybe the walls of a concentric maze leading to the elusive center - from a central overarching theme.
Even more - I'll finally crack open my copies of other Mitchell books, even if just to see what he does with the stories that don't come in six interconnected bits (there are some, right?)
Other characters are highly unpleasant, yet somehow lacking the glamour of a really good baddie.Many have accents in their names, which was a little distracting: Zoe, Anais, Eilish, Oshima, Immaculee – but not Aoife.Hershey, Amis, Mitchell?Critics have seen close parallels between Martin Amis and former “Wild Child of British Letters”, Crispin Hershey: in terms of life events, writing style, personality, and book titles (Hershey’s successful Desiccated Embryos and another called Red Monkey compared with Amis’ Dead Babies and Yellow Dog).
The Confused and the Bewitched[Apologies to Dean Wareham]The bone clocksSit clutchingChampagne andBarbecue,DividedBetwixt theConfused andThe bewitched."Being For The Benefit Of Holly Sykes!"[Apologies to the Beatles]For the benefitOf Holly Sykes,There will be A show tonightWith clownsOn bikesAnd acrobatsOn trampolines.If you don’t likeThe daring scenes,Call forThe author To be sacked.You’ll get yourMoney back.It’s just a circus act!"Jacob's Ladder" by William BlakeDwelling on a ReservationDavid Mitchell seems to have become a literary target, because he walks a fine line between Post-Modernism and commercial success.For the Post-Modernists, he's too popular to be holy.
They wrote it mainly so that they, the author, would like it.Genre WreakI don't think Mitchell set out to write a self-consciously literary novel on this occasion.
I hope he never writes it, or I never get to read it.Improvisational TechniquityI had another apprehension about style.Like Murakami, Mitchell goes where his characters' stories take him.
While Bone Clocks has a lot of positives going for it, it succumbs to the overpowering negatives amalgamated from lackluster—and totally unnessesary—fantasy sub-plots, weak dialogue, and an insistence at saturating the text with witty one-liners.A fascinating and engaging aspect of Cloud Atlas, to which this novel is sure to be frequently compared, was Mitchell’s ability to sashay between genres and voice, creating a wide-ranging assortment of characters reincarnated through time as a brilliant metaphor for the reoccurrence of motifs in various literary traditions as well as an exploration of the how language evolves through time.
Every time I see the author's name in print on the pages of the latest of his or her fiction, I am jettisoned out the story and into the basking novelist's quasi-biography.Mitchell, rather than transmitting a duplicate self, creates an arterial pathway and an organic conduit from Bone Clocks to all his other novels--Black Swan Green, Number 9 Dream, The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet, Ghostwritten, and Cloud Atlas at different times in various ways.
But instead it went on a bit too long for me and I ended up knocking off a star (later decided to be only a half star deduction) because the work as a whole I felt suffered from the last section.If you haven’t read the book and ever plan to read it do not click the spoiler button.
The comes the final section, which I was looking forward to because it was going to bring Holly back as the narrator, and I like when books come full circle, but it felt weird and preachy.
My brain wanted to reject them, and I found myself becoming angry at the author for having screwed these characters up in an attempt to be "literary".And there is the biggest structural problem with the book.In the first 2/3rds, Mitchell seems to be making a conscious effort to appear "literary".
In fact, I believe that the first 350 pages of this novel could have been brought down to about 100, and Mitchell would have not only a heck of a novella (in "The Wedding Bash," which I like to call the "Baghdad section"), but a great novel, as well.Because, you see, it gets better.
By the middle of the first sentence, I knew I was in for it.
By the end of the first sentence I loved Holly Sykes, and would follow her anywhere.
I got to follow her everywhere.
With The Bone Clocks we'll remember why we already love David Mitchell, and be amazed that he could top himself again.
I'm increasingly convinced that, like some of his characters, he too has lived many different lives.
He puts us there, from first sentence to last.
Most have a peripheral role here (there's no need to be familiar with their other appearances), but one major character was significant in The Thousand Autumns (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), making that book seem much less of a straightforward historical novel than it appeared at the time.In Mitchell’s own words, “Each of my novels are expanders or chapters in a kind of uber-book, a piece of a universe that all my novels are making”.
I couldn't finish this book, I struggled to even get to 300 pages, it's horribly boring.The opening 
His books are filled with multiple narrative and style incarnations (the stacking-doll Cloud Atlas, or narrative leaping number9dream, or his most recent The Bone Clocks), but sometime I feel like he is starting to eat his own tail here.
I want to see Mitchell do a Peter Carey and jump out of his slick, crowd-pleasing novels into something a bit different.
I liked the Bone Clocks enough to give it four stars and review and read it.
Anyway, Mitchell hasn't written a novel YET that I'm very disappointed with and Bone Clocks is no exception.
The book sounds incredible, Richard."How can a novel so replete with cynicism and sadness, where beloved characters are vanished and the world spins heedlessly toward doom, be so much dang fun?David Mitchell, that’s why (by the way, this novel is not about Richard Cheeseman).If you’ve not read David Mitchell before, I wouldn’t recommend you start here, because I don’t think The Bone Clocks is his best, but it does overflow with all the features that make his writing such a joy to read: the nested Russian Doll plotting; the marvel of authorial ventriloquism—where he can inhabit any character and produce any voice with astonishing believability; the soaring heights of detail and imagination; the sheer precipices of suspense and drama.
(Cf. The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August, which is, as far as speculative fiction goes, the far superior book.)There were intimations of an outstanding novel here: the character of Holly Sykes, her family's coping with the mysterious disappearance of Holly's younger brother, and the two loves of Holly's life, particularly the caddish sociopath Hugo Lamb, first introduced in Mitchell's Black Swan Green, who is perhaps the most compelling yet sadly under-utilized anti-hero I have ever encountered in literature.But all of that is overshadowed by "psychosoterics," and chakras, and a centuries-long battle between the supernatural forces of good and evil, none of which is convincingly developed.To be clear, The Bone Clocks is not a largely compelling yet imperfect work of literary or even speculative fiction; it is instead a fundamentally flawed patchwork that collectively crumbles under its own overwrought weight.
But I will not condescend to David Mitchell with artificially inflated ratings that his novels do not deserve.See also Stephen M's review here.
Why would he even try?David:[On the red carpet outside the auditorium]Haruki, would you mind autographing my book for me?Haruki:[Looks only briefly at the book, before opening it to the title page] Hey, this isn't my book!
What's going on?David:It's my book.
I told you it was my book.Haruki:[Recognising David Mitchell] But you keep plagiarising my novels.
Even the covers look the same!David:Would you settle for a pastiche?Haruki:Stop it.
There are tears in his eyes.]Wow, I can see two moons!David Mitchell waiting outside the 2010 Book Fair, wondering if this cover looks like the cover of a Murakami novelAnother ViewMy more frank and earnest review is here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
How entirely different that tightly focused family drama feels from the glib sociopath who glides from one ingenious swindle to the next, assuring us that anyone “spared love is spared grief.”The most irresistible section is narrated by a bitter novelist named Crispin Hershey, whom a TV interviewer describes as “a master stylist and a laser-sharp chronicler of our times.” In this tour de force satire of literary culture and its roiling jealousies, Mitchell has created “the Wild Child of British Letters,” a writer “so bent on avoiding cliche that each sentence is as tortured as an American whistleblower.” It’s a fantastically witty section, like tumbling into a Martin Amis novel (an early, good one).
This is one of those books, the closest novel to Cloud Atlas out of all the books of his that I've read.It shares the same basic concept of loosely-tied novellas with strange immortal creatures either living their lives among the humans or actively engaging in a far-ranging and explosive war with others a bit like them, but one thing is certain, they're firmly ensconced in broad stretches of time, even if they're able to hop through history.
(view spoiler)[The book is written in sections, each occurring in a different decade."A Hot Spell" takes place in 1984, and sets up the character of Holly Sykes and quite a bit of the rest of the book."Myrrh is Mine, Its Bitter Perfume" is in 1991 at Cambridge University.
You know how I love my apocalypses."Let's take it one apocalypse at a time."Things I love:The way David Mitchell can throw in words that wouldn't work for other authors: "I hear the boomy scrape of an airplane." Honestly since hearing him give a reading, I hear the entire thing in his voice.The way the author can throw in completely fantastical elements to a scene from reality, such as the Anchorites of the Dusk Chapel of the Blind Cathar of the Thomasite Monastery of Sidelhorn Pass."Characters or places from previous Mitchell novels that find their way into The Bone Clocks.
I tried, I really did. Picked it up, put it down, picked it back up again. Made it to page 200, but this book is just not for me. Made my head hurt.
With Mitch Davies’ latest, Temporal Flesh, the bonhomie we saw in many previous characters gives way to an air of testiness instead, and his world view goes from bad yet hopeful to bad and likely to get worse.
While I’m piling on, I might as well mention this habit the Chronologues had of conversing with one another through unspoken mental means they called “subspeaking.” We get dissonant constructions like “subaddress”, “subreply” and “subpoint out.” An editor should have subsuggested dropping the contrived subspeech.… Recognizing yet again the genre rotation, the repeated characters from previous books, and the linked novella structure, it’s fair to ask if the Davies bag of tricks is looking a bit threadbare from overuse.As something of a counterpoint, I also found this book report that high school sophomore Stephie Botopp wrote.
I loved this one for its pervasive sense of play and its weaving of voices across time.
Unlike the centuries spanned by “Cloud Atlas”, this one is grounded to the life arc of one Holly Sykes and it doesn’t wind backward.
Some early paranormal experiences lead her to grasp beyond an ordinary life to find answers, and the answers she gets forces her by the end of the book to take sides in a war between immortals.
As in “Cloud Atlas”, the different sections of the book take on different writing styles, an experience I find exhilarating.
I don't want to say any more really about the plot as part of the joy of a David Mitchell novel is actually working out what is going on and how it all relates.The story is told through the viewpoint of several characters, each one at a jump of a few years.
They intertwine and weave together as we go along but Holly is the main character and has a part in all of the stories.This book came out a few years ago now and I had been planning to read it on its release.
As a fan of David Mitchell, I didn't want to be disappointed, but finally I picked it up.
4.5/5 starsI REALLY REALLY liked this book. Like a lot. I loved how the stories connected and how intricate it was just AH lots of good things. Really loved Holly & every part she was in, and most of the other characters.It lagged at points for me, which is the only reason for the 1/2 point off, but beyond that excellent excellent book.
This is the beginning of the fall.David Mitchell, who vowed readers with themes of the basic connectivity of human beings through two brilliant novels - Ghostwritten and Cloud Atlas - seems to have started imitating himself.
Like Stephen King, David's characters seem to be growing larger than the books they are contained in, and have seem to have acquired a sort of meta-life in his fictional universe (this is different from authors who create fictional worlds which feature in a number of unconnected books - like Isaac Asimov or P.G. Wodehouse, to take two disparate examples - or authors who create a series of books around the same theme or people).
But look at how nice this looks all by its ARC self: (hide spoiler)]I really liked The Bone Clocks, and it's so obviously the natural evolution of David Mitchell's style and work that it's a pleasure to read.
And that includes the characters from Mitchell's previous works, too: Jason's sadistic older cousin from Black Swan Green is a narrator in The Bone Clocks, and Marinus from Jacob de Zoet appears with physicist Mo from Ghostwritten.
I can appreciate and enjoy something like The Bone Clocks, but I love the heart and the self-contained narrative of Black Swan Green.
I understand that statement now.In terms of plot, The Bone Clocks is a pure fantasy novel, with its own factions of heroes and villains from a different realm locked in a centuries-old battle, complete with made-up words and psychic phenomena.
Yet the novel is structured in a way that is completely anti-fantasy; like Mitchell deliberately wants to impede your understanding of his book.
So you have characters spouting dialogues like "She is chakra-latent, so she may react badly to scansion and redact her own memories" and "I need to revoke my Act of Immunity, so we can merge our psychovoltage", and you just can't decide if this is unintentionally funny or deliberately silly.Although ingeniously plotted, The Bone Clocks ultimately disappoints because Mitchell seems more at ease at giving hints than fleshing out the facts.
Here's the second DNF for this week (I checked these books out from the library so my motivation to finish them is maybe not the highest, with several other books waiting on the shelf).So here's the deal with The Bone Clocks: It's well written, and I could have kept plugging away at it.
Maybe I would have liked it in the end, but it felt like a chore to me.
I wasn't terribly interested in what was happening in the story, and I didn't care about the characters in the slightest.
Así seguiremos la pista de Holly durante todo este periodo de tiempo a través de cuatro personajes diferentes, pero altamente relacionados con Holly; como un joven estafador, un reportero en la guerra de Irak de principios de siglo o un escritor que se cree lo mejor del panorama literario.A ritmo de thriller Mitchell nos sumerge en un longevo puzle, en un laberinto lleno de espejos y adivinanzas, en un reto lector a la altura de las expectativas.En el fondo el autor nos plantea seis novelas compactas, donde cada una tiene un estilo y vida propia, y donde solo Holly Sykes es nuestro hilo conductor y macguffin de la historia.
