https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10611.The_Eyes_of_the_Dragon
When the majority of individuals think about Stephen King's credentials; it is generally about his amazing work-rate at producing memorable and top quality horror stories.
Well, all except one person...I forgot to mention The Eyes of the Dragon includes one of the most infamous, notorious villains in fiction - a gentleman (or demon perhaps) called Flagg happens to be the King's aide and black magician.
The story revolves around a dolls house, an endless supply of napkins, a mouse, a two headed parrot and a very clever wolf-dog called Frisky who is presented with charming childishly human qualities by the narrator.
And also touches another review that is total crap, written by a man who can normally be counted on to give good book recommendations.Even though he tends to ramble, and add musical lyrics to all his reviews.And doesn't actually talk about the book half of the time.
Most days.Anyhoo.This one is actually a fairly simple fantasyish tale.The Fearsome Dragon...The Wise and Beautiful Queen...The Evil Sorcerer...The Decent but Stupid King...The overlooked, sad, spiteful, kinda stupid, (Baby-Brother) Prince...Prince...
Wait.The Good and Decent Hero Prince...The thing that I love about this story, is that it has that classic good over evil vibe to it.
Be noble, be kind, do the right thing...and everything will work out.Remember that?sighSo, that's why I love this one.The End.
When I was a little girl my mother and father would tuck me in at night and read me a bedtime story.
Noooo pink kitties here.In a fairy tale past- there is a relatively happy Kingdom of Delain- with the dragon slaying King Roland, his young wife Queen Sasha, and their sweet, perfect, little boy Peter...but there also is evil in Delain-a magician by the name of Flagg.
Who is also unfortunately...Roland's adviser.Flagg's goal is to make this Kingdom...less happy- and he comes up with a plan.
A plan that doesn't involve Queen Sasha...or a sweet, perfect, heir to the throne.

"Book, you have the right to a speedy trial" review THE DEFENSE  - He may have switched from horror to fantasy with this one, but Stephen King's trademark gripping prose is still in full force!  - A scene-stealing villain who creates chaos and is just so much fun to watch, Flagg would fit right in at Gotham City!  - Despite the fantasy setting, the emotions of the characters always feel real.  - King takes some narrative risks that really pay off. (The segments told through the POV of a dog are
"Book, you have the right to a speedy trial" review
- He may have switched from horror to fantasy with this one, but Stephen King's trademark gripping prose is still in full force!
(putting "Dragon" in the title when the dragon is only in the book for about two pages...that's downright cruel, Mr. King!) - The book's fairy-tale narrative voice may not be for everyone.
A fractured fairy tale as only Stephen King can deliver, this book is perfect for someone who wants to see an author step out of their comfort zone and try something new!
I wouldn’t say it was his first venture into the fantasy genre, per se, considering the iconic Gunslinger (the first of the Dark Tower books) was released a few years prior to this one, but I do believe it was his first attempt at a novel length fairy tale.It makes perfect sense that King would dedicate this story to his daughter, considering the cutesy feel to it all.
i need to preface this by saying that this was the first stephen king book i ever read.
in other words, it's kid-friendly, and actually written as a children's book (don't be fooled, though.
roland has two sons, peter and thomas.
with peter poised to take the throne after roland dies, flagg must see to it that somehow thomas, the weaker son who more resembles his father, is the one actually crowned king.
but i doubt you can find a story in which you feel such compassion for the spineless king roland, awe and respect for the venerable prince peter, and sympathy blended with shame for thomas.
It's not so much the setting as there are many fairy tale legends which are similar to this one .
.. nor is it the actual idea as many good princes have been unjustly imprisoned and then tried to redeem themselves later.This tale's strength is in its narrative prose as well as its nuances.
The magical dollhouse, the napkins, the tidbits of legends, the extra push for detailing characters all explain why King is such a great storyteller.If you like King, read this.
If you like fantasy, read this.
If you like fairy tales, read this .
*** 3.40 ***A buddy read with my fairy tales loving friends at BB&B!!!I have never jumped on the Steven King fan band wagon, but it was never because of his writing.
So, this is how several BB&B members found ourselves reading this book.Mr. King wrote this in order to have something he created appropriate enough to read to his children when they were very young.
And he did just that - he created a fairytale good for children as young as 6 and as old as time:-) I truly enjoyed the story.
ESTE LIBROMEEN-CAN-TÓ! A veces, la gente tenía cosas raras. Lo terminé con una sonrisa. Fue como un helado de frutilla con salsa y frutillas y crema y compartido con la persona que te gusta. Sí, así se sintió. La historia no parece nada del otro mundo, y sin embargo, cuánto me gustó. Tenemos a Roland, un rey simplón y "patizambo"; a su hijo mayor, el príncipe Peter, buen mozo, inteligente y honesto; a su hijo menor, Thomas, celoso, inmaduro y temeroso; y, finalmente, a la estrella de la noche, e
Ahora dejad que, en un abrir y cerrar de ojos, pasen de largo muchos años, pues una de las mejores cosas que tienen los cuentos es lo rápido que puede transcurrir el tiempo sin que nada notable esté sucediendo.
(hide spoiler)]El hecho de que fuese escrito para su hija hace que este libro se vuelva el doble de especial, y qué mejor manera de consagrar e inmortalizar a Naomi King sino creándole un personaje en esta historia.
Si nunca leyeron nada de King, este libro les va a gustar mucho, aunque dudo de que sea el mejor para comenzar con algo de él, dado que difiere bastante (en todo) de los libros que suele escribir.
Delain was a very old kingdom and it had had hundreds of Kings, perhaps even thousands; when time goes on long enough, not even historians can remember everything.” King used a unique narrative style for this fairy tale, where he flexes his writing muscle and offers something much different than his usual fare.
It follows fairy-tale tropes with kingdoms, towers, betrayals, and the day old struggle of brotherly love/envy and living up to a father's ideals.It's not gory, but there are disturbing scenes, such as the use of a certain dragon-influenced poison.
Two of my favorite people have vastly different opinions on this book.
But on my quest to read all of King’s books I knew I had to get to this one eventually.
Peter is instantly everyone’s favorite baby.
Everyone knows Peter is going to be the Greatest King of All Time.
Meanwhile everyone ignores poor little Princeling, Thomas.
Flagg has some tricks up his sleeve for sweet, naive little Thomas.
And when King Roland is poisoned and Peter is imprisoned it is up to Thomas to rule the Kingdom…with help from his only friend.
To me it's pretty interesting that my favorite Stephen King book is not horror at all, but rather, fantasy.
I don't enjoy reading about people being tormented and murdered.
I like to read about people overcoming their fears and the villains they encounter in life.
So it was nice to read a story by King in a setting I love, fairy tale land.
This is not a review so much as my thoughts on this book.
In order to do a review justice, I'd need to reread this book.
But I can say that I loved this book.
Well, that was different.Well written of course.
Perhaps I would have rated it higher if I knew what was coming....or what age group this is really written for?
He's very very old.The most interesting thing about this book was Stephen King's response to it's so-so-reception.
He found out most readers didn't want a "fantasy" book from him.
So....he immediately wrote Misery, a book about an author being forced to write a type of book he didn't want to.
(And I really hope the writing of it helped release his frustration at the ungrateful fantasy readers!)One final thing I heard....it's possible the Syfy channel is doing something with this book...
ESPECIALLY in a Stephen King's book.
He whispers into King Roland The Good's ears, making him do as he[Flagg] bids.
In a way, Flagg has the upper hand in controlling the whole kingdom.
The better to control Delain and lead the kingdom into years of bloodshed.I fucking love this book.
For so long, I've been searching up and down for a decent fairytale.
It's fucking great, more like.I love how it's written.
(Duh, It's King!) The writing didn't peeved me off the way it did to some people.
In fact, I'm really comfortable with Stephen King writing in the narration of a Storyteller.
If my only way of escape was to fashion a rope out of strands of napkin, worked on a toy and it was going to take over a year, then I'd have thrown myself out of the tower on day 3, fuck it as they say and goodbye happy ending.
Peter is of course a lovely lad who everyone believes is guilty except a few friends, so he sets out to escape using the threads of many napkins tailored into rope, worked on a tiny loom or whatever it was and aaaaaaaah!!!!
This is one of Stephen King's fantasy offerings and it is quite delightful.
I do not always enjoy adult fairy stories, but this one catches you up into the action and there is nowhere to go except to read and enjoy the whole book.
The way the story is told is quite original.
There's an evil wizard, a dragon, Kings, queens and princes and of course a prison cell at the top of a tower.
I think one of the reasons I like King so much is that he is unpredictable yet always comes up with the goods.
I understand that this was many readers' first King book.
I understand all that and I still choose to hate this book.
"It's my prerogative." The Eyes of the Dragon was slightly more bearable this go around because Laddie from Perfect Strangers read it to me, and I highly suggest you take the same route when/if you decide to tackle this lesser-known fantasy novel.
That would be fine if this book was six- or seven-hundred pages long.
It's 380 pages long, with artwork and big-ass font to make the book seem thicker than it actually is.
"I think that real friendship always makes us feel such sweet gratitude, because the world almost always seems like a very hard desert, and the flowers that grow there seem to grow there against such high odds."A beautiful YA fantasy novel focusing on the tale of King Roland of Delain and his two sons, Peter and Thomas, with the story being told by an unknown narrator.
It really helps bring the characters and locations to life.This is a nice book to direct people towards if they don't like horror, but wish to read some Stephen King.
So far, I have read the following from King: horror, romance, fantasy, young adult, supernatural, sci-fi...
This one is written very much in the form of a fairy tale and is dedicated to his daughter, who may have heard the first versions of it as bedtime material?
King recycles some material here—anyone who has read The Stand will recognize the villain, Flagg.
However, that is the nature of fairy tales, so it fits in this case.I chose to read TEotD because it was on the NPR’s list of Science Fiction & Fantasy finalists back in 2011 (they were asking people of vote on the top titles in the field).
It is the 232nd book that I have read from this NPR list.
However, I am spiting Jeff whose opinion is horrible and should be rectified with electro-shock therapy, or something.Interestingly, I'm stealing my review from a comment I made in another of his S.
This is all getting very meta.Comment/Review:Aww, man!I loved The Eyes of the Dragon!It pissed my mom right off, though.
She got it when it came out and was expecting...oh, probably what all King fans were expecting.
I hated King's work at that age so HAD to read it when I found out my mom didn't like it.
Of course, it was also an age-appropriate read for me and not so much for my mom.
A fairytale-style story about two brothers disputing over the throne in a vague Kingdom where the power is manipulated byt the evil wizard Flagg.
There’s Flagg, who is the most memorable part of this book, and then there are of course those boogers… It is told by a narrator from our time which at times feels a bit askew.
The story has some nuance and atmosphere.
I liked the dollhouse and the bit where the children play pretend games where ”indians” attacks the castle, a detail that throws the whole European fairytale thing off balance, in a good way.
"A ja sam mislio da je knjiga puna zmajeva, i da im vazda gledamo u oči.
Ali te oči ispadoše i metafora i bitan dio radnje.
Veoma simpatična bajka za djecu, ali i za starije.
Uglavnom ima sve što je potrebno za bajku; dobrog mladog princa, zao mađioničar(kojeg svaki poznavao Kingovog djela zna, RF), drugi dobri mladi princ kojeg je lako manipulisati i mnogo drugih klišea.
Ali ovdje imamo i mnogo mnogo odličnih ideja, koje su mi se baš dopale, tipa salvete, lutkina kućica, amajlije itd itd koje baš i nisu imale smisla, ali su se na kraju sve lijepo sklopilo i upakovalo u jednu baš dobru završnicu.
I really missed out reading this book when I was 14. King packed this baby with all of the tropes YA fiction should contain and made a fun, page turning novel - even if we know how everything is going to turn out. The snarky narrator is an extra bonus.And how cool is it that he wrote this book for his daughter? He even gave a character in the book her name. Did he win Father of the Year when this was first published?
(view spoiler)[ Thomas the younger brother who becomes the wizard Flag's (yes the wizard is named Flag...though of course as most of us know he is revealed to be something else far worse than a wizard) cat's-paw we are told repeatedly is not a "bad boy".
It weaves a tale that while I doubt most will find it surprising it will keep you interested and give some enjoyment.I'll go four on this, if just and recommend it.(view spoiler)[ As noted there are echoes of many of Mr. Kings other stories and most notably I think you'll find a sort of "proto" version of the Dark Tower cycle's Kingdom of Gilead here, just not so dark.
Eyes of the Dragon is very different from most of King's other works.
Written for his tween-age daughter because she complained that he had not written anything that she was interested in or felt comfortable reading, the Eyes of the Dragon is basically King's take on a Young Adult level Fairy Tale.
The single worst Stephen King novel I have ever read and this man has written his fair share of turds.
Un libro escrito para su hija, por ende, es más bien infantil: para chicos.King trató un tema de reyes y magos, de conspiraciones y secretos, de tragedia y traición de una manera soberbia.
Es una novela que no tiene escenas macabras, ni sexo ni vocabulario burdo; es una obra para todas las edades.
Porque, si bien está dirigido a los niños, no es tan infantil.
En este el autor demuestra que su imaginación no tiene límites.
Si quieren una historia con una fantasía suave, una prosa exquisita y una forma de narración hermosa, al viejo estilo de los cuentacuentos, este libro es para ustedes.
Es frustrante ver como Flagg le resultó tan fácil hacerse con las suyas al inicio de la historia, sin embargo teniendo en cuenta que la historia esta hecha para gente muy joven es comprensible pensar que el autor no quiso enredar mucho la trama, manteniendo el conflicto lo mas simple posible para no perder la atención de este lector, que puede ser el primer libro que esté leyendo en su vida.Leyendo un poco acerca de este libro, me he encontrado que SK escribe este libro para su hija Naomi (Hay un personaje secundario con este nombre) con la intención que se acercara a la lectura, la niña llegó a decir que los libros de su papá eran aburridos y luego de leer este dijo que lo único malo era que se terminaba, así que misión cumplida por parte de SK.Para quienes lean la torre oscura sabrán apreciar ciertos detalles que aquí conocemos, el pasado de Flagg, la aparición de la bola de cristal, la tierra de Delaín, sabemos que Roland Deshain lo menciona en alguna ocasión.El final es muy SK, un poco crudo sin perder su aspecto fantástico y apto para menores de edad.
I couldn't quite give it five stars this time around, since it's not as epic or grand as something like The Talisman, but my sheer enjoyment of the story has not diminished with the years.
This time he is the King's magician.I just love the adventure here, and Peter's brave attempt to escape the Needle kept me breathless.
While Shawshank will likely always be remembered as THE King prison escape story, there will always be a special place in my heart for the dramatic climax discovered in the pages of The Eyes of the Dragon.Highly recommended for fans of YA Fantasy.
