https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672965.Flotsam
"...στην αρχή φαντάζεσαι πως είναι κάτι εξαιρετικό, μα δεν αργείς καθόλου να παρατηρήσεις όταν βρεθε
Having read all the novels published by Remarque during his lifetime—and loving every one—this one is my favorite.
It is set in the mid-30s and follows three main characters who are stateless exiles driven out of their homes in Nazi Germany.
This was a topic Remarque understood intimately, much as he did the experiences of a soldier in All Quiet on the Western Front.Remarque's novels tell stories of common people who live through major episodes of German history.
In this story one gets an intimate understanding about the day-to-day struggles exiles had to face.
It would have been more appropriate to directly translate Remarque's title, Love Thy Neighbor.
Tôi bị ấn tượng mạnh đến nỗi khi gặp nó lần đầu tiên trong tiệm sách cũ, không cần biết nó nói về cái gì, tôi mua liền tay.Remarque là tác giả tôi yêu thích nhất trên đời.
Người tốt còn nhiều, hãy luôn tin như vậy, và đủ để bạn có thể sống vui vẻ, dẫu chẳng còn đất sống.Một cuốn sách nên đọc và phải đọc.
Splendid narrative, such real storyline that actually depicts how the scenarios were back in the late 1930s, the years just preceding the Second World War. The title of the book is quite self-explanatory.
In this novel, Remarque skillfully sketches the lives of those ill-fated emigrants wandering across Europe just to breathe freely under the open sky, to lead a humane life.
But all they can manage is to lead nightmarish gypsy lives with no sense of belonging.
The sense of love, sacrifice and camaraderie makes every page of this magnificent novel a fabulous reading experience.
Long live the human spirit.
Many refugees kicked out of Germany in the 1930's without passports or visas are forced back and forth across the borders of Austria, Czechoslavakia & Switzerland. The characters in the book just want to find work, love, and security in an almost dystopian environment.
The nover mainly covers story of three people: Steiner and a couple Kern and Ruth.
Terrible pre-WWII times force them to run between borders of different countries because they cannot go back to Germany and they have no legal documents.The book covers a lot of important sides of people's soul.
Also, you will definitely be able to see yourself in one of the various stories of interpersonal relations like: man and woman, father and son, friends, strangers and people in need.During the whole story I was thankful for the life I have and people, who surround me.
This book might help you to look at your life from a different angle.Definitely worth reading!
In this world a piece of paper is more important then person's life. Good book.
Tôi đã đọc nhiều review về cuốn sách này trước khi chọn đọc. Review nào cũng đẫm nước mắt. Nhưng có lẽ nó có ích, và có thể lấy đi ít nhiều nước mắt của tôi khi 17 tuổi hơn là bây giờ. Khi con người ta không còn có quyền là mình, thì với Remarque, tình yêu là cứu cánh. Nhưng chỉ khi chúng ta biết sống hướng thượng hơn.
Eppure vi ho sempre trovato un che di semplice e pulito, una scrittura misurata e piana; e mi sono lasciata portare un po’ alla volta dal suo procedere pacato, dal suo tono malinconico, e accompagnare lungo le sue pagine, già sfogliate dal tempo, della mia edizione ‘1949’.
Tuttavia Uomini; persone che cercano di conservare la propria sensibilità, che consolidano le amicizie, gli affetti genuini, gli amori innocenti; che alimentano la reciproca solidarietà dei diseredati, la condivisione di chi vive fuori legge; che mantengono vivi i sentimenti per non perdere la speranza nel domani; che mettono in comune un po’ di destino in una vita fatta di vuoto e di fughe.E alla fine l’ho apprezzato per tutto ciò che è, facilmente sorvolando su quel che non è, e le stelline sono via via aumentate.
Erich Maria Remarque’s novel “Flotsam” depicts the world in Europe in 1939 where refugee’s lives are strung along selling bits of shoelaces, thread, safety pins etc.
It lives up to the others and had a wrenching effect on me.
The ending of the book contains an irreplaceable collection of scenes that has one in particular I found to be a gift of priceless treasure.
Some people will find the scene and others will not.
This novel is another analysis of the human condition and the sacrifices of unexpected kindnesses, mainly stemming from the bonds knitted from relationships between people created through desperation.
It is sad, that this book is not popular like other Remarque's books. Because, I think, it is very interesting book and story. And because of that, this novel (book) has many titles (f.e.: Love your neighbour, Love Thy neighbour, Flotsam).I got caught up in a story very strongly and I had to take time to recover from it. I love this book, I think, this book is a masterpiece and it is fascinating.Also, I loved Steiner's character, I think, he was carrying that positivity, which we needed in that story.
Remarque'ın ülkesinden kaçtığı zamanlarda yazdığı çok güzel bir roman. Bu ülkesiz mülteci insanları anlattığı tek romanı olmayacaktı. Belki de ülkesine duyduğu özlemden dolayı ülkesinden uzakta yaşayan insanları anlatmaya diğer kitaplarında da devam edecekti. Ayrıca kitabın kahramanlarından olan Ruth Holland Remarque'ın Hayat Kıvilcimi kitabında geçen Ruth Holland ile aynı kişi değildir. Ruth ismini 4 kitabında kullanan Remarque'ın bu isme olan bağlılığının sebebini bilen varsa söylesin:)
Tôi đã biết được những điều đó hơn những người sống bình thường.”Trên đây là đoạn hội thoại giữa ngài Chánh án Thuỵ Sĩ và Kern khi chàng trai người Đức đang lang thang tìm chốn dung thân cho mình.
Bản du ca buồn, thấm đẫm nước mắt, nồng nặc mùi tanh hôi của sự man rợ vô nhân tính những cũng đầy trong trẻo ngọt ngào khi những cảnh đời bất trắc đó xích lại gần nhau bằng tình yêu thương "rất người".
Um excelente e emocionante livro, que nos mostra a vida dos refugiados alemães no período anterior à segunda grande guerra. Homens e mulheres sem pátria, desenraizados, despojados de tudo e em circuito por uma Europa onde verdadeiramente ninguém os quer. Um tema que tantos anos depois é uma vergonha que ainda seja actual.
The book is great! I haven't known that the German Jews had troubles before the Worl War 2. I thought their sufferings started since 1 September 1939. But they started some years before it. I'm eager to read the other books by Remarque!
Ремарк вже не торт, чому померли не всі?!?!?!
Под конец даже какой-то сюжет обнаружился, но всё равно очень плохо
I really enjoyed reading this book, it gave me some perspective of the though life that the german refugees had during the Hitler's regime. It was one of my University professors of the area of International Politics that recomended this book and I'm very glad he did it. I strongly recommend the reading of this book for the interesteds in social problems of the XX's century.
Whilst he only served for a few months on the front in The First World War, Remarque lived most of his adult life as a refugee in flight from political persecution ultimately settling and dying in America.
Remarque's characters die of cancer, they commit suicide, they are mugged, cheated and sleep under bushes, they are unemployed or work in the worst and most menial jobs for a pittance, they die to keep there children's future alive, constantly finding themselves on the wrong side of the law and often disappear overnight at the hands of the authorities, they get tough and learn to cope and they develop friendships that are strong and passionate because they have been found amidst pain, toil and hardship.This realism adds to a deceptively simple skill of evocative story telling and character development that draws you in and renders the cast as believable, as people that resonate with ones we might well know in our own lives.
Příběh sleduje osudy německých emigrantů před vypuknutím druhé světové války (ale již po nástupu nacistů k moci).
Jejich vztah přečká zatčení, Ruthin zápal plic až nakonec zakotví ve Francii, kde se schází s většinou dalších, které potkali na své cestě.
Steiner se ale v sebevražedném úmyslu vrhne z okna.Kerna a Ruth zpráva o zatčení a smrti Steinera zastihne v Paříži.
Steiner jim oběma odkázal své peníze, slušné jmění a ještě jim zařídil povolení a jízdenky do Mexika, kam Kern a Ruth odjíždí začít konečně život bez strachu z pronásledování.Kniha je úžasná, čte se jedním dechem.
But don’t get caught halfway.*You oughtn’t to keep anything from your former life.
And you oughtn’t to look back.
There was only a dead feeling, an immense let-down, like the anxious moment before falling asleep when he had taken too much bromide.
He sat thus for a long time, staring at his hands which lay on his knees like dead white animals, like pale insentient sea-monsters with five flaccid tentacles.
No part of him was any longer his; he was a strange body with eyes turned inward,scrutinizing a paralysis that showed no sign of life but an occasional quiver.*The words came again.
В романе описывается тяжелое время после Первой мировой войны в Европе, когда к власти в Германии пришла НСДАП.
Невероятно глубоко и реалистично показана трагедия еврейского населения Германии — их считают третьим сортом, увольняют с работы, лишают прав, изымают документы и высылают за границу.
Система доносов и провокация для личной выгоды вдребезги разбивают справедливость.
Огромные армии эмигрантов вынуждены покинуть родину и искать пристанища за границей.
Резко увеличившийся приток эмигрантов в странах Европы ведёт за собой ужесточение мер по борьбе с нелегальным населением.
Люди вынуждены скитаться из одной страны в другую, прятаться от полиции.
Получить вид на жительство — зачастую невозможная задача, ещё тяжелее получить разрешение на труд.
Eric Maria Remarque kitaplarını bitince yaşayan bir şeyler ölmüş ya da bir şeyi kaybetmiş gibi oluyorum.....
Size bir şey söyleyeyim mi bayım.
İnsan çekinecek olsa burnunu karıştırmak bile tehlikelidir....
Yaşasın individualizmin yok edilişi!
Eski Yunanlılarda felsefe bir imtiyaz vesilesi idi.
Sonra ilahi bir nevi asalet sayıldı.
Daha sonra hastalıktan farksız tutuldu.
Medeniyet tarihi, onu yaratanların ızdıraplarıyla yazılmıştır.
.. Çok kötü bir çağda yaşıyoruz.
Barış, türlü silahlar ve bombardıman uçaklarıyla, insanlık da toplama kampları ve kıyımlarla korunuyor.
Bütün değer yargılarının değerden düştüğü günlerdeyiz.
Bugün saldırgana barış koruyucusu da deniliyor.
İzlenen baskı gören kişileri de barışı bozmakla suçluyoruz.
Unutmayalım ki bunlara inanan koskocaman uluslar var.
Tomēr pēdējā laika Latvijas politiskā vidē, kurā uz rasisma un ksenofobijas robežas aktīvi tiek cilāts jautājums par bēgļu uzņemšanu, liek "Mīli savu tuvāko" vērtēt nedaudz augstāk.
Remarks veiksmīgi apspēlē bez pavalstniecības palikušu cilvēku likteņus, kā arī liek lasītājam aizdomāties par to, vai tiešām pase, uzturēšanās atļauja vai darba atļauja ir tie maģiskie papīra gabaliņi, kas cilvēku padara par cilvēku.
Varbūt tomēr mūs par cilvēkiem padara kas cits?
Un varbūt nevajadzētu sodīt cilvēkus tikai par to vien, ka viņi ir piedzimuši?
Ieteiktu šo grāmatu palasīt nacionāļu un reģionāļu politiķiem, kā arī pāris Hūtes paspārnē mītošajiem žurnālistiem.
Reading this kind of book is really a mind-struggle, a little bit harsh for me though. But what I've learned is worth awhile. - It is never that simple to really live a life.- Death can never ruin our life unless we choose to.- And surviving is not to prove that we exist. It proves that we are alive.
sınırlar arasında gidip gelirken yazarın olağan üstü anlatımıyla tüm karakterleri hayalinizde canlandırabileceğiniz bir kitap.kitapta o kadar çok karakter var ki kendinizi o ülkenin içinde hissedebiliyorsunuz.
This book made me think of how lucky we are. And how pointless the war is and it's aftermath. Regret infinite human stupidity. But at the same time be very grateful that there are also good people.Overall, this book confirmed my thoughts on the futility of war.
This book made ​​me think of how lucky we are. And how pointless the war is and it's aftermath. Regret infinite human stupidity. But at the same time be very grateful that there are also good people.Overall, this book confirmed my thoughts on the futility of war.
True story. Very beautiful book. Without a paper you are nothing. We live in a world where a piece of paper is more important than a human life.
Erich Maria Remarque có lẽ là một trong những nhà văn viết hay nhất về đề tài chiến tranh trong nền văn học thế giới, dù không nhiều nhưng tác phẩm của nhà văn rất có giá trị, thậm chí là trường tồn."Họ trèo lên bờ sông thoai thoải và hối hả lau khô người bằng khăn tay.
Dân du mục rất quen với những cuộc phiêu lưu, nhưng lúc cần phải lên đường, họ không bao giờ được quyền bỏ sót lại một mảnh của trái tim.Kern lặng thinh.
[Semaforo verde, ingranare la prima, accelerare piano, non si sa mai, magari quello davanti inchioda di colpo, è già capitato]Tre sono, secondo me, i temi che Remarque affronta, sempre, in tutti i suoi romanzi: la guerra e il deserto che lascia dietro di sé, soprattutto nell’animo umano; il cameratismo, la condivisione, i legami che si creano tra persone che vivono la stessa situazione che li cambierà per sempre; l’impossibilità di “tornare a casa”, perché una “casa” non c’è più.
