https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65714.Kallocain
Packed full with social criticism, I think Boye does a good job of building up a world where the biggest problem isn't so much the state, but the mental walls that keep the people from each other.My favourite parts are undoubtedly the ones where Kallocain is used.
Miss Boye does a FANTASTIC job of portraying people under the influence of truth-serum – especially since it’s such a massive contrast to how guarded they usually are.
It is one of the first and best examples of Swedish literature and for all you dystopian-fans out there, I think it’s a must read!
He develops kallocain, a drug that exposes the private thoughts of his fellow-soldiers, thus paving the way for the Worldstate to ensure that either each individual becomes a "happy, healthy cell in the state organism" or he/she is eliminated.
How then could these thoughts and feelings belong to the individual?
Doesn't the whole fellow-soldier belong to the state?
To whom should his thoughts and feelings belong then, if not to the state?"Kall expects his discovery will be his triumph, his great gift for the common good, but instead it proves to be the instrument of his disillusionment with the Worldstate.
Kallocain works a little like alcohol, he speculates (alcohol, of course, was banned several generations ago); rather than force people to tell the truth, it simply makes them want to stop lying.
It's tempting, of course, to read it not only in a 1940s context - trapped in a world of totalitarian thinking that created both Stalin and Hitler and the people fighting them, and the big war just starting to gather steam - but also in relation to Boye's personal life; as a lesbian, she faced a very real risk of getting thrown in jail simply for existing, and it's quite likely that that pressure led to her suicide a year after Kallocain came out.
Leo Kall wakes up one morning to read the newspaper and the headlines say "Thoughts Can be Judged." Well, Leo already knows this, having invented a drug which he named after himself: Kallocain.
Working from that idea, he develops Kallocain, and after a few subjects from the Voluntary Sacrificial Service are injected with the drug and questioned as to their loyalty or knowledge of treasonous plots, Kall realizes this drug could be a great weapon in securing the state.
Anyone with thoughts judged to be against the state could be put into prison or put to death, eliminate any possible threats.
коли я вперше прочитала "каллокаїн", то дуже хотіла знайти докази того, що орвел його теж читав.
було б гарно: він так розлого висловлюється про те, що гакслі приховує вплив на себе замятіна, а сам ні словом не згадує про карін боє, яка за вісім років до "1984" уже виразно просунулася в бік похмурості антиутопійної держави й розписала механізми стеження за кожною одиницею народонаселення.
але ні, навряд, англійською "каллокаїн" переклали тільки в 1966 році, орвел туди зовсім не дожив (як і сама авторка).ще якісь смішні п'ятдесят років – і опля, у нас є український переклад (і я, приємно вірити, навіть у якийсь спосіб долучилася до такої оперативної його появи).
Kall is a scientist and contributes to the state through his Kallocain experiments on people from a voluntary service where they sacrificing themselves for ”the greater good”, a unit one can enter but never leave.Since individualism is forbidden and private emotions are viewed as selfish, dangerous thoughts, the society is built upon mistrust and suspicion - a foundation necessary for the existence of the world state.
Not being able to control such a people, the ruthless state had to defend itself.When no one can be trusted, the only way to feel safe is power, but power is only an illusion, since it doesn't take away the small voice inside one's soul.
The fascinating Kallocain, the last novel by famous author and poet Karin Boye and published not 6 months prior to her tragic suicide in 1941.
Well deserving of it's mention along with 'the great dystopies'; We, Brave New World, 1984 and This Perfect Day (yes, Ira Levin belongs there too!).
Leo Kall creates the drug Kallocain after noting that people tend to reveal their inner thoughts following the intake of alcohol.
Kallocain is much more effective and a great tool for the ones in power and their ideas that since a humans' body is the property of the state, his thoughts, feelings and ideas must be too.
Pero nada más lejos… Muchas escenas que se cuentan aquí, en cierta manera, también se cuentan en 1984, pero lamentablemente el padre de las distopías es de sobra conocido por todo el mundo y, en cambio, la madre de las distopías pues… eso.El libro es muy bueno, y le da un aire fresco a las demás distopías en las que siempre hay un individuo en contra del poder y permanecen así durante toda la novela; aquí, en personaje protagonista, empieza siendo una mente adoctrinada completamente sometida al Estado del Mundo, pero que poco a poco va viendo la luz y empieza a cuestionarse sus ideas y las creencias que pensaba correctas hasta entonces.Si te apetece leer una reseña más extensa sobre este libro puedes echarle un ojo a mi blog Entre píxeles y páginas.
Still ever so relevant, and beautifully written at that. This book deserves attention at least as much as Farenheit 451, 1984 or Brave New World. Is it because Karin Boye was a woman that the book hasn't reached the same level of fame?
This book is best seem as a part of dystopian quartet from the first half of the XXth century, the others are: We by Yevgeny Zamyatin, brave new world by Aldous Huxley and 1984 by George Orwell.
The novel was nominated for the Retro-Hugo for 1940.The novel depicts a totalitarian society where the protagonist developed a truth serum (Kallocain), which allows to take oppression to a new level – to judge the very thought and intentions of people.
I guess this is underappreciated by western public that totalitarian regimes are much broader than just their leaders and secret police.
Kallocain är definitivt en av mina favoriter från litteraturkurserna. Jag är inte jätteförtjust i dystopier, de fascinerar mig inte, men jag tycker ändå att Kallocain sticker ut i sin genre, delvis för att allt inte behöver vara snedvridet och fullkomligt absurt. Det är rappt och enkelt, språket flyter fint och Boye är så smart. Det bästa tycker jag är synen på staten samt porträttet av Linda, och hennes monolog om att vara kvinna. Att det är skrivet 1940 är så briljant!! PS kan inte låta bli att tycka om Rissen bara för att det nästan låter som Riesen
You know the feeling when you read something you know is good, I mean not just because others have told you so but because you can actually feel it when you read the book? You read on and you still get the feeling that this is a good book......and yet you don't particularly care for it. This was such a book for me. I can understand why it's a classic, well known, and I'm glad that I've read it. But still my feelings for it are no more than lukewarm.
Muy, muy a tope con esto.
In vino veritasAccording to roman historian Tacitus some Germanic peoples counseled only while drinking wine, because they believed that the drunk always speak true.Wine is no longer necessary to loosen one's tongue since Leo Kall developed the drug called Kallocain.
Kall is a chemist and the narrator of (t)his story.
When administered, Kallocain forces people to answer each question truthfully, and to reveal their feelings and thoughts to the interrogators.
This comes in quite handy for the state because: From thoughts and feelings words and actions are born.
To whom do his thoughts and feelings belong if not the state?
Men samtidigt som framgångarna är stora när det gäller sanningsdrogen börjar Leo Kall sakta men säkert inse att det är många som har önskningar och begär bortom Världstatens hårda, känslolösa styre – och snart finner han sig själv i en kamp mellan vad huvud anser vara rätt och vad hjärtat vill.
Men trots det så finns det något i de flesta hjärtan som vill ha mer, som har svårt att inte älska, som drömmer sig bort till värld där staten existerar för invånarna.
Det är en vacker men delvis lite långtråkig bok då den inte håller så mycket action; utan det handlar mer om att tänka till och fundera.
Once i have read Kallokain ,for me there are three absolute totalitarian distopian materpiece novels
Un diario en primera persona que rezuma emociones reprimidas, una mirada al autoritarismo que se centra no en su cara política, sino en la sociocultural.En los cimientos del aterrador futuro en que sucede esta historia no se encuentran el ansia de poder ni la corrupción política; los opresores son defensores de la moral, protectores de la civilización y la cultura.
Los mueven sus ideales.Kallocaína es una apología del individualismo.
En una sociedad tan aferrada a su identidad grupal y valores culturales no hay espacio para la personalidad o los deseos personales.
I have heard a lot about this book and I never really wanted to read it but when I found it as a Swedish e-book when I needed something "new" after finishing some good fantasy books...I found the book a bit (very) rambling, but still interesting and it was mainly about thoughts and feelings you are not supposed to have in the all powerful World State.
His slight hopes that the drug might achieve opposite effects with regard to the destruction of privacy, i.e. that individuals who have crossed the barrier to finally speak open and honestly, might change and their honesty could be infectious from thereon, remain illusionary as the enemy invades the World State.The totalitarian society developed in Kallocain is a mirror of Boye's frustration with the political situation in Europe.
The depersonalization of society with the destruction of personal relationships and trust in the big nations of Europe must have destroyed Boye's hope for future mankind.
I'm just relieved and overjoyed that I got through this boring book!
-.-' Well, well.Okay, now about the book:Kallocain was written by a very famous Swedish author, Karin Boye.
Boye worked with the book during WW2, it was published 1940, so the novel has a lot of influences regarding both Germany and the Sovjet Union during that period.The book is a dystopia where everything and everyone is controlled by the State.
Kallocain is supposed to help the State to control its inhabitants even more.
'Cause when you inject Kallocain, all your secrets will be revealed...So okay, kind of like this:
this is a lyrical, poetic, rather mundane world without either the melodramatic oppression, the great names, the obvious powers of orwell's book- ministry of truth, thought police etc.- or the conspiracy of intellectual powers, seductive technology, behaviourism of BNW, this world, this worldstate, seems more plausible, more human, more philosophical.
partly because there is no big reveal, no real, identifiable, irresistible powers- only surveillance, informing, group psychology, personal ambitions and emotions radically redirected to the worldstate.
when this goes under to the power of kallocain truth serum...
Náladou aj vyznením asi najpodobnejšie Zamjatinovej knihe My (1920) zo známeho trojlístka My, Konec civilizace (1932) a 1984 (1948).Prvá veta:Dávám se do psaní knihy.Posledná veta:Vyzývám tímto každého, kdo bude rozhodovat o půjčování tohoto rukopisu, k nejvyšší opatrnosti a jeho čtenáře k nejpečlivějsí kritice, jakož i k nejnezlomnější důvěře v daleko lepší a šťastnější situaci v Univerzálním státu. --- Hung Paipho, cenzor
Kallocain is a Swedish classic (written in 1940), dealing with themes of love and sense of self and the meaning of life, in a totalitarian state. Everytime I read certain kind of dystopias, I get a sense of unease at how poignant a lot of them still are. Kallocain takes place in a totalitarian state, much like 1984 does, although Kallocain predates the latter, and a lot of the surveillance in it, that probably seemed outlandish and outrageous when it was written, is commonplace today.
4.5Actually even scarier than 1984.
علمیتخیلی نابی با نام اصلی کالوکاین نوشتهی کارین بویه(1941 ـ 1900) شاعر و رماننویس سوئدی. نویسنده کتاب را تحتتاثیر سفرش به روسیه در سال 1928 و اقامتش در برلین نوشته است. داستان به شکل بازگویی خاطرات از زبان دانشمندی به نام لئو کال روایت میشود. او موفق به ساخت ترکیبی شیمیایی به نام کالوکاین شده است که با ترزیق آن فرد بدون هیچ شرم یا ترسی کوچکترین تمایلات و افکارش را برای دیگران فاش میکند. لئو کال فردی ایدهآلیست و در خدمت سیستم است و با کمال میل کشفش را که نوعی داروی حقیقتگویی است در اختیار دولت م
او دوجنسگرا بود.گزیده‌ها:«همقطاری که هرگز نه پیش خود و نه پیش دیگران نمی‌پذیرد که فداکاری انجام داده است، سزاوار ارزش بیشتری از همقطار مایوسی است که در بند به اصطلاح فداکاری و ایثار خویش گرفتار است حتی اگر یاس خویش را پنهان کرده باشد.» ــ ص:27«دولت از فکرهای روشنی که در موقع لزوم به آیین‌نامه چاپ شده تف می‌کنند، استفاده‌ی بیشتری می‌برد.» ـــ ص:118«اگر علت یا دلیلی برای اعتماد میان افراد وجود داشت، دولت هرگز بوجود نمی‌آمد.
هرکس که این اصل را زیر سوال ببرد، دولت را مورد شک و تردید قرار می‌دهد.» ـــ ص:120بخشی از سخنرانی در باب ساخت فیلم‌هایی برای تهییج جوانان برای داوطلب‌شدن برای جانبازی:«هیچکس به طور جدی نمی‌تواند معتقد باشد که زندگی شخصی به خودی خود ارزش دارد.
Sein ganzes Leben lang wird er von Alpträumen geplagt und die für ihn nach all den Ehejahren immer noch offene Frage, ob ihn seine Frau Linda überhaupt jemals geliebt hat, lässt ihn eine Entscheidung mit schwerwiegenden Folgen treffen.Karin Boyes Roman aus dem Jahre 1940 gilt als eines der wichtigsten schwedischen Romane des 20.
Letztlich ist das Gefängnis für ihn ein Ort der Befreiung, denn er ist die ihn beängstigende Freiheit im Staat losgeworden und die engen Mauern bieten ihm den Schutz vor sich selbst und seinen Gedanken, den er zuvor schmerzlich vermisst hat.
För långa meningar med för många komman. Inge tydligt händelseförlopp. Läste enbart för svenska 2 och ville nästan hoppa av hela kursen för denna bok. 10/10 would not read again
En lågmäld dystopi, utan specialeffekter, perfekt uppbyggd. En av mina absoluta favoriter någonsin.
En nuestras sociedades en cambio, sabemos que los ciudadanos somos libres, tanto de acción como de pensamiento, las comunicaciones son libres y no están controladas por el Estado, que actúa simplemente como un ente neutral que facilita la aplicación de una ley acordada por todos.
Podemos decir aquello que pensamos sin riesgo a ser excluidos de ningún foro público, ya que nuestras libertades son constitucionales, y están por encima del poder del Estado que, en todo caso, reside en el pueblo.La sociedad del Estado Mundo se resquebraja en el momento en que determinados ciudadanos toman conciencia de su situación.
"Per la prima volta nella mia vita avevo la consapevolezza di cosa fosse il potere, lo sentivo in mano come un'arma - ed ero disperato." Questa è forse la distopia meno conosciuta al mondo, eppure risulta precedente anche al celebre 1984 di Orwell. L'autrice svedese Karin Boye riesce a creare una realtà credibile, claustrofobica e rigida, dove il regime poliziesco che si è installato non lascia scampo nemmeno ai pensieri.Leo Kall, il protagonista, la voce narrante, ha creato un "siero della ver
Ma il chimico non sa che sarà proprio la sua invenzione a portarlo sulla strada di una nuova consapevolezza, soprattutto attraverso gli esperimenti sulle cavie umane.Mano a mano che si procede nella narrazione, Leo Kall diventerà sempre più conscio che, oltre all'annullamento dell'individuo a favore dell'unità dello Stato Mondiale, c'è anche la via che apre il futuro al singolo elemento del meccanismo, un elemento con le proprie emozioni e i propri sentimenti.
