https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13642.A_Wizard_of_Earthsea
It was different, it was QUALITY.Yet I didn't finish it because, thanks to the aforementioned reading habits, my ability to concentrate and enjoy quality literature has slipped to the point that I am unable to focus on a book unless one of the following is occurring or about to occur.1) Somebody uses their super awesome powers to take down five bad guys with Kung Fu or a huge sword.
A Wizard of Earthsea deserved a better run on my reading shelf than it got.
”The hunger of a dragon is slow to wake, but hard to sate.” The Folio Society edition is superbly illustrated by David Lupton.The boy is born on the island of Gont in the archipelago of Earthsea. This is a world infused with magic. Not everyone can control this magic, but those who know the right words and have a wizard soul can learn to utilize the power of the Earth to manipulate objects and events. The boy’s name is Duny; I can tell you that name because the name has no power over him. His tr
Not everyone can control this magic, but those who know the right words and have a wizard soul can learn to utilize the power of the Earth to manipulate objects and events.
A wizard’s power of Changing and of Summoning can shake the balance of the world.
She wasn’t sure she wanted to write such a book, but she was nagged by the idea of where do great wizards come from?
I liked the emphasis she puts on the importance of words in this novel and the power and magic that resides in knowing the names of things.
"It is very hard for evil to take hold of the unconsenting soul."  This seemingly simple statement actually says a lot about the human nature - just as all the Ursula Le Guin's books that I've read so far seem to do.  ***A Wizard of Earthsea is a simple but beautiful and magical coming-of-age story of a young wizard Ged, who starts out as a brash and cocky boy who in his arrogance unwittingly releases a terrible Shadow upon the world, but who eventually grows up and succeeds in embracing the da
***A Wizard of Earthsea is a simple but beautiful and magical coming-of-age story of a young wizard Ged, who starts out as a brash and cocky boy who in his arrogance unwittingly releases a terrible Shadow upon the world, but who eventually grows up and succeeds in embracing the darker part of himself.
In her amazing brilliance, Ursula Le Guin takes what could have been a straightforward tale of the fight of good versus evil, and turns it into something more - a lesson in self-discovery and acceptance of the darkness that lives inside all human beings.
This is a story about the fascination with knowledge and the temptation of power and dangers of presuming too much and upsetting the natural balance.
It’s a standard fantasy plot, delivered in basic way, but, nonetheless, it is still great.
In the process of working an extremely complex spell, aimed at the other wizard, the young Ged accidently summons great evil into the world.
Magic is most dangerous, in this world, and it must be handled with care.
This is a style rarely found in fantasy, and most of the time it doesn’t work that well, but in this can Le Guin does in masterfully.
When reading this I noticed many ideas that I’ve seen several times before in fantasy, yet, I never really considered with whom these ideas originated.
Orson Scott Card, with his 1980s era Alvin Maker series, stated that he wanted to make an American fantasy, and escape or at least distinguish his work from the inherently English Tolkien sub-genre of fantasies.
And when I pick up A Wizard of Earthsea, I'm connected to my childhood, to that memory of this particular copy, as well as to memories of reading fantasy in general.
Nor is Ged your typical fantasy farm boy Called to be the Chosen One. He's a wizard of no small talent who, because he's a cocky adolescent boy, screws up and spends no small part of his adult life attempting to rectify the mistake.There's a lot of darkness in this book.
You must hunt the hunter.If you read A Wizard of Earthsea as a straight fantasy story about good versus evil and wizards and dragons, you will probably be disappointed.
How come Harry Potter is the publishing sensation of the century, and this is only a moderately popular cult novel? Life seems unfair sometimes, but I suppose that in a few hundred years it will all have sorted itself out. The ending is one of the best I know in any book.
I agreed with everyone that it was a real classic with so much to love within its pages.And yet, right after reading A Wizard of Earthsea, I'm gonna have to say I think A Wizard of Earthsea is better.
Bad decisions leading eventually to wisdom, and all the while, the magic surges and surges.Want a dragon fight?
I want magic that's clear and deep all at the same time, with a fundamental message that isn't corny and that's interwoven so deftly within the tale of discovery that the result is always obvious and profound.This here tale does that.
A single, well-written action or turn of phrase can reveal more about a character than paragraphs of narration.In her influential essay on fantasy From Elfland to Poughkeepsie, she talks about how Dunsany does not really use dialogue the way other authors do--that indeed, she finds it difficult to locate any sustained conversations in 
Once again I am struck with the notion that modern authors of fantasy epics have added nothing to the genre but details and length.If only Le Guin had given her lovely little story the strong characters and interrelationships it deserved, it would have been truly transformative.
Two very different characters with distinctive lessons to be learned along the way, both Ged and Genly develop and make discoveries of self as well as understanding of others.
Before you speak or do you must know the price that is to pay!" Sensible words that can be applied to more than just your standard wizard-in-training!Pride is not easily shed, however, and as a result Ged lets loose upon the land of Earthsea a dark and dangerous creature.
I mention Rothfuss as AWoE looks to be an influence, a magic school where our sole point-of-view character is educated from child to man in a form of magic where the true name of things gives power over them.It is also a very summary book in many ways.
A lot of ground is covered in very few words which can leave a sense of shallowness and a lack of emotional engagement, which is offset by Le Guin's excellent prose, but not entirely.The second half of the book, where Ged is variously pursed by or pursuing his nemesis, a magic he foolishly released as a student, was something of a grind for me.
No disrespect to the deservedly popular Potter series but certainly Earthsea's Roke Island's school of magic seems like a precursor to Hogwarts, and Le Guin's protagonist Duny / Sparrowhawk / Ged starts off as a boy with an unusual degree of natural talent for magic.
OK, got that out of the way, no more pointless HP comparisons henceforth.Ged by David LuptonA Wizard of Earthsea is - to some extent - a bildungsroman about a boy name Duny who has an unusually high aptitude for learning and using magic.
The magic in the Earthsea universe is based on the "words of power" and "true name" idea.
Wow. This had all of the plot points and awesome fantasy world that I'd normally love.
The writing was almost mesmerizing at times.
I LOVED the elements of the world with the mages and dragons and everything, but I just could not get as into the story as I would've liked.
I really did like the world and think I might come back to this story someday because it really does have a ton of potential.
But I was apparently not in the mood this time.
So... this really wasn't for me!I love fantasy and the overall story was good, the writing was beautiful (definitely helped me practice my english!) but I was so bored. Like REALLY bored. I ended up skimming a bit..It reminded me of Uprooted - which I also didn't like! Also couldn't get attached to the main character due to the third person narration and how often months or years of his life were described in one sentence.Will not continue the series.
At 35, I’m not really old but I don’t often feel young anymore, and it’s only now that I feel like I am finally confronting my shadow and embracing who I am.There are an infinitude of ways to reflect upon, analyze and understand our life experiences.
Perhaps of equal import, I think my loved ones like that person, too.This begs the question: was it mere chance that I read A Wizard of Earthsea at this time, in this place in my life?
My five-star rating applies with equal force to LeGuin’s story and Ellison’s reading.Thank you, Ms. LeGuin.
I can't believe I am giving a Le Guin book 2 stars, I have nothing but respect for this writer and her work, but alas, A Wizard of Earthsea was a chore to get through.
What I mean is, it's all about one wizard's personal quest to overcome the dark entity - Shadow - that he unleashed during a youthful boasting about his magical powers.
Ged spends the majority of the novel feeling ashamed of his deed, or running away from the Shadow or, in the end, finally confronting it.
A Wizard of Earthsea just didn't.Listening to this novel as read by Harlan Ellison was an experience in its own.
It's one of those books that crams an epic story in under 200 pages, sketching the world and the details and the action rather than spelling everything out.
As a kid, you get lost inside of a book like that, and it seems the better for it (the closest comparison I can think of is The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe - I was shocked to re-read that and discover the "epic battle" at the end is about two pages long).I can tell that's what UKLG was going for with this first book of Earthsea.
It is one of the finest political sci-fi books ever written, a peer of Orwell's 1984 and Huxley's Brave New World (and I humbly submit that on the back of that book alone, LeGuin deserves to win the Nobel Prize for literature).
Until now.A Wizard of Earthsea is one of the finest pieces of fantasy literature ever written.
He eventually returns to the world, leaving behind the protection of Roke, and seeks an end to the chase between himself and his gebbeth -- a return to equilibrium: "only in silence the word, only in dark the light, only in dying life: bright the hawk's flight on the empty sky." In typical LeGuin fashion, Ged's struggle for equilibrium isn't our simplistic conception of a struggle between good and evil.
The thing to remember about Earthsea, like all of LeGuin's writing, is that it is less fiction that it is Taoist parable.
That seems frustrating and senseless, unless the reader understands that the "important action" is not actually the focus of the narrative.I think there's a certain amount of "Emperor's New Clothes" phenomenon surrounding Earthsea, as evidenced by the recent TV miniseries.
I don't think Earthsea stands up very well against the other greats of fantasy fiction, if it's read in this light.
But the beauty of LeGuin's writing and the significance of Earthsea's message make it a worthy addition to the genre, and to every reader's library.
Anyway, I know that a lot of people look down on Siddhartha and The Prophet, but I think what people enjoy about Earthsea must be similar to what I like about those books.
“Okay,” I said, “What’s the story?” “Well, we went there the other day.” And that was the end of his story.Maybe it’s not fair to compare world building to elaborate directions, but that’s how they make me feel.
A Wizard of Earthsea tells the story of Ged from his childhood to his maturity as a wizard.
4. The entire fabric of A Wizard of Earthsea is tightly woven and the texture of the environment comes through in every phrase of the fantasy book.
For a time, Ged has a pet animal called an Otak, and the affection between the wizard and the pet allow the reader to feel alongside the character because many people can relate to the furry comfort of a dear pet.
Overall, A Wizard of Earthsea is a splendid fantasy book.
A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, #1), Ursula K. Le Guinتاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: دریای زمین کتاب 1 - جادوگر؛ نویسنده: ارسولا کی. لوژوان (لگوین)؛ مترجم: پیمان اسماعیلیان خامنه؛ ویراستار: نیلوفر خانمحمدی؛ تهران، قدیانی، 1386، در 327 ص، جلد 1 از مجموعه شش کتاب در شش جلد؛ شابک دوره: 9789645365835؛ شابک کتاب 1: 9789645362773؛ موضوع: داستانهای خیال انگیز از نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 منقل از متن: تنها در سکوت است که کلام، تنها در تاریکی ست که نور، تنها در مرگست که حیات، چون پرواز باز در آسمان بی انتها، خود مینماید؛ پایان نقل. ا. شربیانی
When I think about my favorite epic fantasy books I always think about books that are 500+ pages long and honestly I didn't think it could be done properly any shorter.I was wrong.A Wizard of Earthsea is only 180 long but it doesn't does feel short neither do I find story lacking as anything and it doesn't leave story unfinished.This book is just as long as it needs to be.
Only later was he to learn how precious and powerful a true name was:“In that moment Ged understood the singing of the bird, and the language of the water falling in the basin of the fountain, and the shape of the clouds, and the beginning and end of the wind that stirred the leaves: it seemed to him that he himself was a word spoken by the sunlight.”“Magic consists in this: the true naming of a thing”These people from a pre-industrial society have different ideas and concepts; a different and more instinctive way of thinking.
This is such a precious book of fantasy, of a classic (if it even exists) fantasy tale, of a mage who learns his true nature, who fights himself and his fears to become a better version of himself.
The plot is nice and simple, straightforward and entertaining.
The writing style is superb, impressive in the simplicity of the delivery.
I dare saying this is felt as a family tale, a book to share with your loved ones; it also feels like a great book to recommend for those who do not know fantasy well or are fantasy beginners.
I loved it.
One of the first aphorisms of a creative writing class is "Show, not tell." Not that I don't believe in turning aphorisms on their heads, but this one is there for a reason.
Le Guin, for the greater part of the book, just tells.
It makes for a painful reading experience.
In 1967 when this was published, the environment was less diverse, and so the novel probably has some historical significance, but the painfulness of its prose is not worth its possible insights.
The Good:Written in an amazing mythic style, this book initially blew me away.
The societies depicted weren't just modern Western cultures with bronze/iron age furniture - the setting felt like a truly ancient place shaped by geography and history, and where lack of technology actually mattered.
The mythical style certainly keeps the reader at arm's length (not in itself a bad thing), however the main character also becomes increasingly alienated from the setting and the other characters, and also from the reader.
Then there's the main antagonist, who lacked the substance to generate sufficient drama.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Ged starts off a lot like Rachel and finishes like Ross or maybe Gandalf.
Names are of extreme importance and power then, and a person must guard her true name, given in a ceremony performed at the age of around 13, with great care, revealing it only in sacred trust.Our protagonist, the magically-talented Ged/Sparrowhawk, struggles with certain character flaws, mainly pride and lack of self-esteem.
Two familiar features of Le Guin’s writing are notable here; firstly her use of skin colour; Ged is described as copper-skinned with dark hair, and his friend Vetch is darker, while others, for example the invaders who come to plunder the village, causing Ged to discover his talent, are pale folk.
I have to wonder if J.K. Rowling ever read it, after reading about the school for wizards and all the masters teaching their specialties.
Plus those instructors help to set Ged on the course to right the wrong that he created in moment of pride.Another theme is that power is dangerous if used incorrectly.
The balance between wanting power for its own sake and wanting power in order to help others.
When Ged deals with dragons, he uses power to help others.
When he sets a dark power loose in the world, he was serving his own ego.
It seems to have been overshadowed by Tolkien, Lewis, and now Rowling.
A Wizard of Earthsea is an unusually enchanting classic that is simple in form and yet significant in substance.Written fifty years ago, I believe that A Wizard had been a source of inspiration for many coming-of-age stories, and of wizard schools.
Our main protagonist, Sparrowhawk, or Ged, which is his true name, was the son of a goatherder who at a young age was discovered to be unusually powerful and thus travelled to the School on Roke for his training.
An impetuous, arrogant, power and knowledge-hungry young man then, he unwittingly unleashed an evil onto the world, a shadow that may in time possess Ged and become an even more dangerous foe to the humankind of Earthsea.
