https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35231.Lord_of_Chaos
What a damn idiot! I accidentally put both audios of book 5 and 6 on hold at the library. This one came through before the 5th book! I was thinking I missed something! Oh well, I loved it anyway. This effing cancer shit has me all messed up!!! And I feel like shit on top of it and apparently don't know what I'm doing 😡
Lord of Chaos is 900+ pages of people posturing for power by standing (or sitting) around talking. Painfully slow pacing with very little tension that ultimately arrives at a limp ending. It's quite possible this book could be removed from the series altogether and none would be the wiser.
Or more specifically, something this book did not have.This series has in my eyes had two huge problems barring it from a place among the very best fantasy epics out there.
Slow plot development or no, without the horrible characters that sometimes made me want to throw these books in the closest wall, I am truly able to appreciate the epic work of a man whom I would now describe as the best fantasy writer and world-builder since Tolkien himself.This was not the best Wheel of Time book so far, but it deserves all the stars simply for turning me into an adoring fan.
Establish dominance by making something up and insisting on it.-When first seeing another female be sure to judge her neckline first, followed by face, clothing and finally where she comes from.-If a woman flirts with your man, get angry at him for being present while that occurred.-If your man attempts to keep you safe or gives you advice, go galavanting head first into trouble regardless.-When the man comes to rescue him, chew him out for thinking you needed rescuing in the first place and/or not being there to save you in the first place.-Find fault with anything a man says.
This is another metropolitan-city-phonebook-sized novel with a potentially interesting story that is bogged down by its excruciatingly slow pace, regular insertions of backstory, constant descriptions of the garb of every major and minor character (garb which keeps getting smoothed, straightened, or otherwise adjusted), and too many mentions of expanses of bosoms, spankings, sitting on knees, sniffing, snorting, and braid yanking.
Well, I was puzzled, but at least there was finally some action, even if the events around it seemed contrived.Robert Jordan is a smooth writer who's got an interesting story to tell (thus, three stars), but he dilutes its power by drawing it out.
Read more Robert Jordan book reviews at Fantasy literature.
I've completed Book 6 of the epic Wheel of Time buddy read with my amazing friend Branwen!
While the awesome parts of this book made it all worth reading (particularly that exciting battle at the end) I must confess this was my least favorite novel in the series so far.
Still, the Wheel of Time books just get better from here on out...right?
Right?!(Umm...why did all the Wheel of Time fans start snickering at me just now???)FULL REVIEW TO COMEWheel of Time ranking photo from favorite novel to least favorite:Wow, that's a lot of pages read photo:Just think, Branwen...only about 7,000 more pages to go in the series!
Tower Aes Sedai: a delegation of Sisters--including Reds--arrives in Cairhien under the guise of honoring the Dragon Reborn and negotiating some kind of mutually beneficial "arrangement" that ultimately hinges on Rand's agreement to go (and presumably stay) in Tar Valon.
The second they arrive they begin preparations for his refusal, in which case the new plan is to (view spoiler)[transfer delegation leadership to a Red (whose sole purpose is to find men who can channel and destroy that ability), forcibly abduct Rand, beat him into submission on the way to Aes Sedai HQ, and bring someone he cares about along as well, for motivation purposes.
A new month a new Wheel of Time book with the fantasy fanatics of Buddies Books and Baubles. This book is both engaging and infuriating. If I were to write 30 words or less that sum up my feelings about the series so far they would go something like this.  Never have I read a series that I like so much based mostly on worldbuilding, plot and cultures while disliking or struggling with most of the characters.  The continuing fight against The Dark One or Lord of Chaos and his chosen is really wel
There were a few that started off really good in the first few books and I thought they had a ton of potential but in this book I only like Min, Avienda and the Maidens the rest of the women spend their time hiding, making ridiculous statements, infighting and a plethora of other eyerolling actions that just make me cringe.
It is about time and I love the way she has decided to go about it.ღ - Avienda and Elayne meeting up again after the Avienda spent some time with Rand….Man you would think that guy was Casanova instead of a woolhead that has no clue what to do with women.ღ - The big battle at the end and why Perrin had to take the fight to them.
To review this book, I have to start by telling a little story about my history with this series, and more specifically with this book.It was in the great year of ought 7 (2007) when I was first reading Lord of Chaos, the sixth book of The Wheel of Time.
I decided, not only did I want to make sure there was an ending (sorry, I know that was insensitive of me), but I was really excited to catch up and finish the Harry Potter Series.So, 4 years ago or so (since it's early 2012) I stopped reading Lord of Chaos just about 260 pages in.
The pacing of the story is very deceptively slow, but it builds on itself, fiber by fiber, and by the end of each book you find yourself holding your breath, barely able to take in air, because it is an energy outward transmutation of a million plot lines coming together and creating an explosion!!!
How he weaves all those settings, cultures, characters, plot lines, and creates a world so real it is palpable, I can not even imagine!

So you can imagine how frustrated I was while reading this at snail's pace, kept thinking when will things start happening.
About the girls - this book belongs to Egwene.
What happened to the fierce girl that I love?
Min finally made her way back to Rand and it was good to see them together and Min always keep things interested with her prophecies.As usual I loved the final battle and the slow pace of the book was forgotten/forgiven.
The way things ended here I am so eager to start A Crown of Swords.
HOLY HELL.
Some shit went down in this one!Rand - FINALLY feels like he finished with his whining and getting on with stuff - his stuff being manwhoring.
Egwene - WHAT IN THE HOLY HELL?!Loial - LOVE YOUElayne - I just like you less and less every book.
Still kind of a weirdo, but I like it.
Mat - I can't remember when I started liking you.
Don't ever changePerrin - Your wife sucks.
Faile - You suck.
Min - Glad to see you are getting some good story time.
All the good guy Aiel - You guys are the best.
The characters proved a mixed bag: Rand: I though the guy was the star of this instalment.
They were as disturbing and crazy as you might expect given how she turned out.Mat: This was a good book for Mat. I still find him a bit whiny and annoying at times, but getting away from Rand and leading the Band of the Red Hand is helping him grow as a character.
Her story arc was a little unbelievable and sudden, but it should be fun to see where it goes.Nynaeve: WTF has happened to the tough, brave, kick-ass Nynaeve of the first four books?
Do not expect an easy answer to this question.Rand spends most of his time jumping between Caemlin and Caerhien while trying to hold the throne of the first until Elaine comes back, but she is not a big hurry to do it; I will comment on her later.Perrin finally shows up, but I am sorry to say he is reduced from a person to a rug by Faile who firmly guides him.
The Wonder Girls (ab)use his without a second thought.Nynaeve at least has decency to avoid Mat most of the time.
Spoiler-filled notes:(view spoiler)[- Aes Sedai make MANY VERY WRONG decisions and want ALL the respect (TIP: It has to be earned) *Glares at Alanna & White Tower- Oh, that reminds me.
W!T!F!- Back to the white tower Aes Sedai – I would not have minded if Rand KILLED THEM ALL.- Nynaeve gets her skill on and Suian & Leane get their groove back!
I don't trust him one bit.- Some VERY interesting Forsaken chapters- The battle of Dumai Wells aka - don’t f#%* with Asha’man(♪ I fell in to a burning ♫ ring of fire ♪)- Perrin is back!
- WOLVES!
HUNDREDS OF WOLVES!
spotted Perrin (duh Eon there are wolves) and Loial!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
“The author’s first three books were really good––well, if one turns a blind eye on the fact that they are LOTR ripoffs, which, don’t get me wrong, is fine by me, just as long as the story is revisited in a captivating way and makes you turn the pages faster than it takes for my right hand to reach up and tug my braid; speaking of which…––but book 4 and 5 were pretty hard to slog through and I’m afraid the same can be said about book 6.
Woolheaded perhaps?” She gave her braid another tug, this time hard enough to make her scream in pain.
"The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend.
Legend fades to myth and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth returns again.What was, what will be, and what is, may yet fall under the Shadow."I am so glad to read this series again.
When I read it I always feel like I am on the journey.I am glad to see Perrin again in the book!
He is one of my favourite characters.I find the society in the book really intriguing.I feel I have learned Robert Jordan's writing style a lot.
Once upon a time there was a book series called The Wheel of Time, which, when piled each volume upon the other, could reach past an elephant's rheumy eye.
I peered woefully ahead to the four ponderous volumes (now seven) that waited with an infinite, mad patience, and realized my own hands had helped build this hell.
The volume slammed the wall, leaving a great gash that flared alight and gaped like a page burning from the inside out.
"Have you been introduced to The Wheel of Time books?" I inquired.
Was the whole world really burning up?Thank goodness for the Wheel of Time Wikia page.
It’s difficult to wrap my mind around the fact that this is only book six of fourteen.
It’s true that you could argue that this book has about 900 pages of build-up….
The Battle of Dumai’s Wells features almost 50,000 participants and just about blew my socks off, especially given the fact that it's over so quickly."Kneel and swear to the Lord Dragon, or you will be knelt."So, in summary: this is a long hard read, but it is ultimately rewarding.
So you made it to book 6! Now that you're here, that means you finished book 5. Have this not really spoiler-y lolCat based off the second to last page of The Fires of Heaven! Stolen from this comedy goldmine thread. It is hilarious but beware spoilers.Rand finally has some real chapters in this book. Since book 2, The Great Hunt, he hasn't figured much as a point of view. Sure he had some chapters in the Aiel Waste, and the climax of book 5, but he was all caught up in becoming a man out of leg
Anytime you're in the middle of a Rand scene and voices in his head start talking to him, I highly recommend trying to picture it from an outsider's view point.
All of the Rand scenes make this book memorable, and I can see why I had it in my head that this was my favorite of the series.
At this point, it feels more satisfying to go back than it is to go on.I still resoundingly argue that this is a great series.
When you look at this book and the two or three that follow it as a whole, you can see how a bunch of things happened that were very important to the overall story, but when you're eagerly awaiting them as they're coming out, and the wait between books is getting longer and longer, and what you get when you finally get your book is not as fast paced or exciting as earlier volumes in the series, you can see why some people had some problems staying attached to The Wheel of Time.
I reaaaaally do not get that feeling, but I'm willing to be open to it for now.What I will not hold off on judging at this point is how tired I am of 99% of all the characters in these books being so combative and untrusting with each other, and when trying to win arguments or positions of respect or power, making unilateral moves that in no way consider their opponents or people they are against/with as actual human beings with skills and valid ideas and viewpoints.
"The lions sing and the hills take flight.The moon by day, and the sun by night.Blind woman, deaf man, jackdaw fool.Let the Lord of Chaos rule.”Wow! que final fantástico! Wow!Esse livro foi o melhor da série até agora. O prólogo em Shayol Ghul foi sensacional. Houveram muitas reviravoltas da segunda metade até o final.Mas, esse final... QUE FINAL!Cito novamente que o Rand amadureceu muito até agora, não só ele, todos os outros personagens também, mas os capítulos do Rand são os que mais me agradam.ASHA'MAN KILL"And the world was changed forever."
4 StarsThis was the start of the tougher side to the Wheel of Time series.
The wiki page states that there are 47 freaking pov’s in this book and it sure felt like it at times.
This was my third time through this book, and it is the last of the books that I actually read cover to cover more than one time…What I liked:-	Taim---the Black Tower---the Asha’man-	Logain-	Nynaeve healing Logain, Siuan, and Leane-	13 Aes Sedai-	The rise of the Forsaken-	More Ogier-	Pissed off Rand-	Scary Asha’man-	Min-	Perrin and the wolves-	Matt and the BandWhat I didn’t like:-	Long periods of nothing-	Lots of wasted chapters-	Way too many pov’s most of which I could give two shits about…-	Too many freaking people-	Long bookI found that thanks to a satisfying ending that I probably felt that the book was really better than it actually was.
Este es uno de esos libros que te sorprenden, donde lo importante no es el camino sino el final, y es que el camino se me hizo largo y tedioso, hay muchas paginas de mas, pero el final fue...Asombroso, sensacional, espectacular, por fin se puso en su lugar a una serie de personajes odiosos...
(view spoiler)[Las Aes sedai, o como a mi me gusta llamarlas, el ejercito de Umbridges.
Se que aun me falta mucho camino por recorrer para concluir esta saga, pero mantendré mis ojos en la meta.
The Perrin-Faile-Berelain “love triangle” (I don’t want to call it that because it isn’t a love triangle - Perrin shows absolutely zero interest in Berelain whatsoever) is the prime example of this, but all the other characters engage in similarly silly behaviour that usually doesn’t even come close to how actual human beings would behave.
Some of this is a cumulative effect, I know, but I’m not trying to rate these books objectively and individually, and Lord of Chaos can’t really be looked at on it’s own anyway, as the majority of the storylines and subplots simple end arbitrarily, to be continued in the next instalment.
Elayne claims to love Rand but also plans to (view spoiler)[ bond him as her Warder without asking and making him obey her.
More and more he argues with the voice of Lews Therin in his head and it seems that Lews Therin is growing stronger and might displace Rand's personality from his own body.
Personally I think that Rand's biggest mistake so far was trusting his school for male channelers to Mazrim Taim.
I like him and really, really want him to be one of the good guys.
And with their latest bullsh*t move they killed any chance of Rand ever trusting them.
It was a well-worth read.For me, a lot of things changed with this book.
I started loving Aiel (even the Wise Ones); began to admire Egwene (this book was important to her), and since they gave me a lot of reasons, I was annoyed by many Aes Sedai ventures.
I love this character for several reasons, one of which is here-'"Are you sure you will not ride, Lord Aybara?” Dobraine asked from his saddle; to him, the notion of fighting on foot was anathema.Perrin patted the axe hanging at his hip.
What was meant to be a glorious trilogy turned into a bloated, never-ending story. As I read the 4th and 5th books, I became quickly disappointed with Jordan's obvious decision to start stretching the series and winging it to bring in a bunch of cash. The breaking point was when I was reading this book, and I got to page 600 realizing that  nothing had happened in the book yet!  I closed the book and cut my losses. My friends on Book 11 wish they had done the same....
