https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30633.The_Four_Loves
Read this in college when most of it went over my head...then life happens. After a life full of joy and tragedy and senseless loss at times...this work sits in my nightstand drawer so I can be renewed, reawakened and reminded of higher purposes when the world is too much with me.
However, the points of view on the different types of love were very useful to me, in reflecting on my own life and relationships.
But another part of me believes our relationship succeeded not because we each found that one and only person that we could be happy with, but rather because of God's Love and His influence in our lives, our commitment to Him and each other, and our willingness to change and sacrifice along the way.
So I have often mused on "being in love" and how that relates to present and future happiness in married life.
Below is an excerpt that I wished to share."There is no safe investment.
Love anything, and your heart will certainly be wrung and possibly be broken.
Wrap it carefully round with hobbies and little luxuries; avoid all entanglements; lock it up safe in the casket or coffin of your selfishness.
But in that casket - safe, dark, motionless, airless - it will change.
It will not be broken; it will become unbreakable, impenetrable, irredeembale...
If our hearts need to be broken, and if He chooses this as the way in which they should break, so be it."
Lewis explores love24 March 2013 This is one of those books that every time I read it (this is the third time I think) I learn something new, so I guess I am going to have to put this book up in the realms of literature. The interesting thing about this book is that when Lewis wrote it he had not been in a relationship (he remained single until he met Joy Davidman, which is actually the subject of a book, a movie, and even a play) so he is not actually writing from experience. However, we should
Throughout the book though (with the exception of Charity) he is also exploring the dangers that with these forms of love give rise (okay, he does not actually do that with friendship, and indicates that any of the dangers that arise from affection and eros go beyond what that form of love really is).
Obviously with a love of nature he considers the idea of worshipping nature as a god one aspect of this, and with patriotism, the extremes of which give rise to another form.
Another interesting thing that he points out is how certain people fear the friendship love, especially people like religious leaders and corporate bosses.
The Four Loves, C.S. LewisThe Four Loves is a book by C.
Taking his start from St. John's words "God is Love", Lewis initially thought to contrast "Need-love" (such as the love of a child for its mother) and "Gift-love" (epitomized by God's love for humanity), to the disparagement of the former.
However he swiftly happened on the insight that the natures of even these basic categorizations of love are more complicated than they at first seemed: a child's need for parental comfort is a necessity, not a selfish indulgence, while conversely parental Gift-love in excessive form can be a perversion of its own.
Ama cualquier cosa y tu corazón seguramente será estrujado y posiblemente roto.
Cúbrelo cuidadosamente con pasatiempos y pequeños lujos; evita cualquier enredo; guárdalo bajo llave en el ataúd o el féretro de tu egoísmo.
Pues en ese féretro -seguro, oscuro, sin movimiento y sin aire- cambiará.
No lo harán pedazos; se volverá irrompible, impenetrable, irredimible… El único lugar a parte del cielo donde puedes estar perfectamente seguro contra todos los peligros… del amor, es el infierno.”Para mí no hay muchas maneras de reseñar a Lewis con estas obras.
O aprendes algo o no lo haces, pero sí tengo que hablar de la forma tan madura, natural y segura en que habla de estos temas.
He does make the point however, that an imbalance of this Need-Love is detrimental.He continues on to discuss four particular types of love which connect to these two categories: storge, philia, eros and agape.
It is here that Lewis first explores and notes that like with any love if you turn it into a god it becomes a devil.
It is this aspect of affection that Lewis criticises as 'Need-Love'.
Within it, Lewis reveals the notion that love is not the single concept that we have turned it into.
One reviewer spoke of this as an "apologetic," and indeed Lewis wrote many apologetic works, designed to make a rational case for Christianity for unbelieving readers.
Non-Christian readers would probably not be interested in that approach to the subject (although, since all truth is God's truth, he draws his thoughts from a lifetime --this was published three years before he died-- of observation of human beings, not simply from Scripture and theology).
The vocabulary and thought, as always in Lewis' writing, is aimed at the ordinary intelligent layman; it avoids jargon, and while it's profound, it's never pedantic.The six-chapter structure of the book is simple and logical.
I talk about how much I dislike Lewis and yet read two of his books in the space of a few days.
If you enjoy Lewis' continual didacticism, this is the book for you.
Admittedly, I don't read philosophy or dogma well, and this is both.
However, it is to Lewis' credit -- though I'm not sure how -- that I finished the book at all and actually started critically thinking about how much love I was putting into important relationships in my life and how I could do a better job of it.
So I always love reading anything by C.S. Lewis.
This book is basically Lewis just talking about his insights and his perspectives on love.
It's almost like I am out with him drinking coffee at the cafe and he's just sharing his thoughts on love and friendship.
There was a lot of contradictions i.e. sex without love can be a good thing...friendship can be a bad thing.
And I was like, "Okay...explain." And Lewis *does* explain and offers terrific ideals and values on love, friendship, Affection, Charity and the like.
For anyone who loves hearing Lewis "talk", this is a great book to read.

Only a true genius can write something that you feel exactly the same way yourself, but could never have the eloquence to state it like Lewis can.Highly recommend The Four Loves to anyone who has ever loved anything.
I live with a beautiful example of these loves in my own home in my husband, and I kept looking up from my reading the whole time and asking him questions about affection, friendship, Eros, and charity.This would be wonderful for any young teenagers who are just coming into dating or adulthood and wonderful for a discussion group of all ages.
This book was something I looked forward to reading and then I was totally bored and disgusted with it. What frustrated me the most is how he would take an opinion or outright incorrect statement such as Pagans worship trees (way way way out of context and incorrect) and then use that false statement to support his arguments. That is basic logic 101 class and made most of his arguments invalid. I wanted to like what he was saying but couldnt because he was just down right incorrect in so much.
This first type of love reminds me of the basic level of care at the bottom of the psychological pyramids that is so often neglected and often leads to such dysfunctional young adults and crime.
I talk to them more than I do to my daughter, which I'm not sure what that says about my relationships.
I also have a few friends that although I don't talk to them often I know they would be there for me if I needed them.
It needs care.
It's easy to say "god loves me", but does my behavior merit that?
Outstanding. Also read in September of 1983. And then in 2016 I listened to the audio recording of Lewis himself reading an earlier form of the book.
I don’t know.Reading him again in my mid-forties is a different experience.
…Christ did not teach and suffer that we might become…more careful of our own happiness.The only place outside Heaven where you can be perfectly safe from all the dangers and perturbations of love is Hell.The good man is sorry for the sins which have increased his Need.
Five readings of this text have not demised the depth of thought and challenge found in these pages.This famous investigation of the four types of love exemplified by the Greek words storge, philos, eros, and charios begins with a preliminary discussion of gift-love versus need love.
Lewis, like the scholar he was, defines terms and sets the stage for his greater argument.In the following 141 pages Lewis takes the reader on a relatively painless though deep investigation of just what love is and how we express it.
And that is of necessity as his definition of charity begins and ends with a gift-love of God.
At his best Lewis can be very good (Screwtape Letters, Mere Christianity), but at other times he can be a bit frustrating.
It’s particularly frustrating when there are a lot of good ideas and connections that you know could be deepened with more reflection and care.
You might say someone with his gifts has kind of an obligation to use them carefully and well for the greater good.
At times this book feels like it was tossed off by an unusually gifted journalist.
It’s a good book, but you get the sense that it could have been much better.
I hadn't read any CS Lewis in years, and I remember not being especially impressed the first time I read this book; it didn't seem to have a cohesive thesis.
I can see why I thought Lewis was tangential, and I assume I overlooked the genius because at the time I was too naive of love (& it's pitfalls) to understand his meditations.
No doubt the book will be even more meaningful when I pick it up in another 10 years.
He reads people so accurately, really picks out the hidden motivations behind the things we call love & urges us on to something better.
Lewis defines each of these types of love and how they affect our lives.
Still Lewis has a wonderful way with words, and some of the reflections and quotes were quiet resonant.
Such as this one:“To love at all is to be vulnerable.
Love anything and your heart will be wrung and possibly broken.
Lock it up safe in the casket or coffin of your selfishness.
But in that casket, safe, dark, motionless, airless, it will change.
To love is to be vulnerable.” I wish parts of it had flowed a little smoother, however I did enjoy it.
This is not the exact same material as his book that bears the same title.
Rather it is from a series of radio broadcasts prior to the publication of the book.
That said, I am enjoying hearing Lewis's own voice.
I keep thinking of J.R.R. Tolkien's supposed basing of the Ents and their way of talking on his friend C.S. Lewis ...
and it kind of works.Also the material is great and is a wonderful precis (probably) of the book which I know contains more material.
And which I will be reading in the future.
This is great stuff, especially the section about friendship.
One of his best. Read it with De Rougemont. Read it before you try to get a girlfriend. Then make your girlfriend read it. Then make your parents and her parents read it.
Where most books on love give food for thought, THE FOUR LOVES offers a king's banquet. There is more wisdom in one page of this book than in the entirety of Erich Fromm's THE ART OF LOVING.Love is a messy subject, so it's only natural that Lewis' analysis be a bit messy as well. And though he's incredibly methodical in shaping his ideas and presenting them with art and diplomacy, Lewis writes with such warmth and accessibility that we view him as the sagely uncle we all dearly wish we had.
كتاب فلسفي رائع، يغلب علي معظمه اسلوب فلسفي وفكر عالي.
فكانت تبدو لي تلك الصفحات انها غير مفيدة ولا تلمس واقعي الحالي.يؤخذ علي الكاتب انه مضي يوصف وينقد المحبات دون ان يبدأ بتعريفها، دون ان يضع ارضية واحدة يقف معه عليها القارئ.
مفترضا فهم القارئ لما يقصده بمجرد ذكره لاسم المحبة التي هو بصددها.وربما كان ذلك بسبب اختلاف ثقافتنا وثقافة الكاتب ولا سيما انه يبعد عنا بمقدار اكثر من نصف قرن من الزمان.يبدا الكاتب كتابه بمقدمة فريدة تحتوي الكثير من الافكار الابداعية، والتي يمكن وصفها انها عصرية بالرغم من قدم ذكرها.
ويختم كتابه بفصل اقل ما يقال عنه انه رائع، يتميز بروحانية عالية ومنظور جديد ومتحرر من الانماط المعتادة لبعض الحقائق المسيحية.
.. النسخه ال English ابسط بكتير للي حابب يفهم هو بيقول ايه ..الكتاب نجمه علي الحب الاخوي و نجمتين الحب الالهي و لم اقرأ الحب الغرامي.فصل الحب الاخوي ملئ بالسطحيه و اوقات الرجعيه و رؤيه ضيقه و تعميم خاطئ جدا دفعني مقراش الحب الغرامي و خصوصا انه اتكلم 3/4 عن الشهوه!
لكن في مجمل الفصل وانه اعطي الصداقه قدرها الحقيقي كان كويس!الحب الالهي ..
يمكن ده اللي طلعت بيه من الكتاب كله بعد معاناة فهمه!!
اعطاء مفاهيم جديده مثل محبة المنح و الاحتياج و المحبه التقديريه و نداءه لله بال "المحبه نفسه" كان رائع ايضا (y) !
It’s always amazing to me how Lewis starts at what seems to be a “40k foot”, philosophical view, and somehow quickly and succinctly brings it to an impactful, eye level point. Great read for thoughts on relationships, altruism, friendships, and marriage, and how they relate to the ultimate love of God.
This book was much deeper and a thicker read to digest than I was expecting. I am normally not one to need digestion time for a book and yet this book has required it of me. This is also a book that will require rereadings to fully engage all of the ides presented. It’s depth comes from the amount of implications and depth in the topic itself: kinds of love.
I liked the wisdom and insight offered in this book. I thought that Lewis did a great job dedicating so much thought into each type of love and showing how God can be present or misused in each form of love. I did find it to be a bit hard to follow and abstract, but overall a good read.
As I was reading, I kept a long list of quotations that I liked and agreed with, and there were many places where I found myself laughing knowingly at his insights into human nature.
It makes the reader consider the downsides of certain kinds of love and also helps him or her to view affection, friendship, and eros through the lens of the charity which God calls all of us to show to our fellow human beings.
I didn't 100% agree with everything (Lewis has never been a woman so his comments on female friendship didn't always ring true) but I love the way he expresses his ideas.
Lewis begins by drawing a distinction between "gift-love" and "need-love," defining the first as the type of love which motivates a man to work and plan for his family's future well-being although he will not live to see its fulfillment, and the second as that which sends a frightened child running to his mother.
"But in addition to these natural loves God can bestow a far better gift…He communicates to men a share of His own divine gift-love: Love Himself working in a man."CommentsC.
