https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243991.I_Love_Dick
Finally the ordeal of reading a book with this title on public transportation is over.
this book is fucking amazing.
it's rare that a book would inspire such monomania in me.
chris kraus is just so savagely smart and dissects the role of women in the art world like a surgeon.
she's confessional and angry and theoretical (in the clearest way) and poetic all at once.
she says all the things that you want to say but aren't supposed to say: like that academic feminism is full of shit, that artists who don't conform to pre-made theoretical/critical categories are made marginal, that women's heterosexual desire is considered abject.
this book set a little part of me free.
If there is an afterlife (probs no) and you can pick your own heaven from all the moments of your life I'd like mine to be eternally reliving the first time I read this book.
Hated this.Abandoned.
Chris and Sylvere then begin to sexually harass and stalk Dick.
They call Dick on the pretext of discussing their "art protect" (aka their sexual fantasies) and record the phone call without his knowledge.
By continuing to read, I would have made myself a party to Dick's harassment and I just couldn't do that.That's not to say there isn't any artistic merit to the book.
Chris Kraus is an artist and seasoned intellectual.
It's like Gauguin in that the act of sexual violence is itself made into art.
However, I read for fun and there are plenty of other books out there.
Often spectacular and VERY complex book - I think the (absolutely essential) afterward hits it on the head: the preoccupation with whether or not this is memoir or fiction, epistolary or invented, (a preoccupation, I'll add, that I was a victim of myself) masks the real achievement here, which is a structural masterclass in time management and a brutal look at love.
There are issues - I think the focus on cultural criticism hurts it - there are LONG meanders that I had to fight my way through because I was hungry for the plot.
And a more important lesson than quite a few of the books I've loved more than this.Also - you'll never get more stares on the subway then when you read this.
I have no idea why a book about a woman who continually forces her sexual/romantic/intellectual fantasies on a strange man who asks her to please stop repeatedly is so radically feminist.
is it radical because it proves that, like men, women can also violate peoples boundaries for their art with no qualms?
I feel like a lot of reviewers try to absolve Kraus/her character of her actions by throwing a bunch of academic language and feminist theory at it.
I feel no connection to this as a feminist text what so ever.
Though I must say, for Sylvère , there's an upside to all this - he and Chris have started having sex again..
thanks to Dick, Sylvère and Chris have spent the four most intense days of their lives together.
Sylvere wonders if the only way that he can feel close to her is when someone else is threatening to tear them apart.But, poor Chris is quickly going off the deep end in her passion for the Dick.
I blame you, Dick.Hope Chris boils your rabbit!
I just try, and try, and try, and try to love this book the way that every respectable person seems to, but the whole time I'm reading it I want so much for her to join a lesbian separatist commune. Like, I'm totally through with hearing about dick, you know? I know this is not a morally defensible position. Maybe one day I'll realize I actually secretly loved it all along, rom-com style, because otherwise I don't know how to explain how mad it makes me.
It is self-absorbed and mean-spirited, a deadly combination.
I read it in November 2015 but gave it time before I felt comfortable sharing my response.
You see, I have read many reviews that praise the book highly.
I am happy to be unsophisticated if that means rejecting the stalking and toying with the life of a real person as this book does.
In this case, if a man wrote a book like this about a real woman: holy cow, it would (should) be drug (rightfully so) across the coals.
Disappointed in the book and all those who have praised it.
Bailed at 25%. I really didn't get wet for this.(crumples up paper, tosses over shoulder)This book failed to rise to the occasion....(crumples up paper, tosses over shoulder)I thought it would be harder...(crumples up paper, tosses over shoulder)Life's too short to hang with a book that doesn't....perform(crumples up paper, tosses over shoulder)I didn't finish. And that's all you need to know about dick.(I give up)
I've never read a novel like this before.
A blending of the epistolary novel, feminist manifesto, art criticism, tell-all reality-memoir, critical theory, personal essay, and diary.
The first part, which establishes the narrative impetus (Chris, the author, falls in love/crush with an acquaintance (Dick) and, together with her husband, writes love letters to him but doesn't send them).
The obsession for Dick continues and changes.
Her relationship with her husband changes.
Her life and relation to her art changes.
She begins to see everything through the lens of Dick.
where it actually feels like it matters.Bonus: makes for great reading in the men's locker room.
Loved the opening pages, the first 20 or so, the introduction of the conceit, but found it irritating and kinda smug/self-satisfied by page 75, and then boring by page 95 (her drive east) where I skimmed ahead to an unremarkable chapter toward the end called "Dick Writes Back." Didn't find it all that interesting or original or "theoretical" or funny -- the most enjoyable bit is probably the title.
I was very aware of the title on the cover as I rode the subway to and from work.
But it's ultimately not for me (I prefer to read better books, hardy har).
It's made up of letters Chris and Sylvère write to Dick - some are actually sent to him, but most aren't - and everything that results from the infatuation and the expression of it through these letters: proposals for art projects (of which this book is arguably the final incarnation), a continuous system of critique, Chris's 'lonely girl phenomenology', a deconstruction of the idea of a love triangle.There's a lot I could say about this, but I don't feel qualified to.
In particular, I felt aggravated by Chris's attempts to assume a kind of starving artist identity while frequently referencing the swathe of properties she owns (with Sylvère), and then there's the namedropping...
The title alone will accomplish that much.I Love Dick is not so much a story as it is a journey for a bored-of-married-life filmmaker who falls for, or thinks she falls for, one of her husband's colleagues, the titular Dick.
This book is comprised of letters, journal entries, essays, and annotations that attempt to piece together what exactly the filmmaker is looking for when she attaches herself to the idea of being with Dick, a man she barely knows but is convinced she's in love with.
And that is precisely why I think it will be perfect for a sociology class, even better if it's for Intro.

Thought I'd love this book. I mostly hated it. I would've DNFed it except that once in awhile there'd be a line that made me want to air punch. So I'm going to put those together and the rest of this reading experience behind me.
Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/ZIwDqSMDHbE
"I think the sheer fact of women talking, being, paradoxical, inexplicable, flip, self-destructive but above all else *public* is the most revolutionary thing in the world." No. Worthwhile, necessary, yes.
She quotes Fassbinder: "I believe in searching for a kind of love that somehow involves all of humanity." To which she adds: "I got my voice back several days after leaving Guatemala." This is halfway through the book.
And insofar as there is a kind of love in this book, it involves only an infinitesimal slice of humanity: the interior of Chris Kraus' (creative, twitchy) brain.
Astoundingly page-turning yet philosophically powerful.
Anais Nin (read back-to-back with this) fictionalizes her experiences to interesting reflective / psychoanalytic ends, but Kraus does so much more.
This seems only barely fictionalized (perhaps!
It's dangerous/reductive to place too much weight on that assumption!), but through conceptual rigor and density of thought this is much more the essential "novel" and even that descriptor falls far short of everything going on here.
I really must read more Kraus now -- despite liking her films, this is somehow my first foray into her writing, or even into her press!
The fuck was that?
In a just world, this would be the next selection of the Oprah Book Club.
http://msarki.tumblr.com/post/1445486...Art is the consequence of that excess, that energy or force, that puts life at risk for the sake of intensification, for the sake of sensation itself—not simply for pleasure or for sexuality, as psychoanalysis suggests—but for what can be magnified, intensified, for what is more, through which creation, risk, innovation are undertaken for their own sake, for how and what they may intensify.___Elizabeth Grosz, Chaos, Territory, Art: Deleuze and the Framing of the Earth (New York: Columbia University Press, 2008)Understandably, in the novel I Love Dick by Chris Kraus, it seems boredom is the original driving force behind the adulterous fantasy being planned and played out between a married couple.
There is something completely fascinating about resurrecting this form but inverting it, so that the woman is the artist, the wielder of language (therefore the maker-of-world), something really compelling about rebirth through humbling the self to unreciprocated desire, something utterly exhilarating about Kraus' interest in directly challenging the (very convenient) notion of art superseding the personal.
In I Love Dick, Kraus is very very interested in dissolving the boundaries between "Art" and the "Personal" (and re-situating Self and Book outside of this dialectic) utterly, but in so productive a way that the reader doesn't even have to pass through confessionalism through the inquiry at all.
....I continued reading it.It doesn't get better.
Chris and Sylviere simultaneously write a series of letters to Dick, letters that explore their careers, their marriage, and the potential addition of a third person.
This first half of the book sees Chris and her husband Sylviere bounce ideas off and around each other, like two buzzards circumventing their own issues in favour of involving themselves in a mutually creative project.
Because Chris is essentially writing to herself, what starts as unrequited love actually turns into a practice of self-soothing.
Personally, I loved reading Kraus’ discussions.
What she has instead, is bucketfuls of humiliation, personal and professional failure, sexual abjection and bunny boiler syndrome which all fuse and implode on the eve of her 40-ieth Birthday.
Now, when midlife crisis strikes, one (of the female variety that is) is meant to batten down the hatches, cry-me-a-river, eat their own bodyweight in Ben & Jerry’s, mope and wallow for a month or two, in private, of course, then pick up, shake off, and take up saving orang-utans in Borneo or some such.
Really.Chris Kraus, however, makes a case study of her mental maelstrom of humiliation and sexual abjection.
Recommended and published by Kraus.
Wow, this is awful.The last 100 pages are just complete ramble and feel like the journal of a mentally disturbed person, not a writer in control of their craft.Initially the book, which has a very clever title, is moderately interesting.
But the book was hardly teetering on greatness, and when she switches to complete babble, it loses anything that it had.The author seems intelligent, but she tries very hard to convey that she has a depth of culture and knowledge that goes far beyond the average layman.
I haven't read the book, but I've seen the videos.
It’s December 1994 and failed filmmaker Chris Kraus, 39, and her husband, 56-year-old professor Sylvère Lotringer, spend a night at the home of Dick, one of his California colleagues, to mark the end of Sylvère’s sabbatical.
This was Kraus’s first novel, originally published in 1997 and re-released in 2015.Some favorite lines:“She was an American artist, and for the first time it occurred to her that perhaps the only thing she had to offer was her subjectivity.
By writing Dick she was offering her life as Case Study.”“I meant every word I wrote you in those letters.
