https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103162.Wilderness_Tips
One of them's got a little boy, other one he's got twoone of them's wife is one week overdueI know these girls they don't like me, but I am just like thempicking a crazy apple off a stem
He's in the middle of "The Bog Man" when he realises that his wife's come in and is looking at him curiously.
What was that French expression she likes?"Mi-figue, mi-raisin," she says.
"I'm so glad you finally read it," and for some reason he finds that he has tears in his eyes, and she does too.
There’s the pedantic journalist figure in “Uncles,” clearly modelled after Robert Fulford (the physical description alone is him to a T); there’s another journalist, June Callwood, in the book’s final story, “Hack Wednesday,” a tender look at a middle-aged woman’s life; and there’s “George” (not his real name), the charismatic figure of a Hungarian immigrant who is married to one sister and longs for the others in the title story (I did some digging, because it rang a bell, and apparently it’s based on George Jonas, who was a contemporary of Atwood’s).
This is my second foray into Atwood’s writing and I think it’s safe to say that she has become a new favourite author of mine!
The way she writes is just hypnotizing, it sucks you right in until you feel like you’re living in the pages of the book with the characters.
And it’s even more remarkable because she manages to do that even with short stories!
I loved every one of these stories and found myself disappointed as each was coming to a close, it wasn’t enough and I wanted more!
Which is pretty much how I feel about Atwood’s writing, I want more!
The best is Death by Landscape which I realised part way through I had read somewhere before (not in this book, which came shrink-wrapped from a book club) but still enjoyed.
Whether coincidentally or not, this is one of the few that does not dwell on women's disillusionment with men, and instead is about a haunting experience from a woman's childhood.
The theme of the collection seems to be disillusionment, sometimes in childhood, sometimes as in Uncles occurring later in life.
Probably it is best dipped into rather than read all the way through in one go.
I really liked this collection and it comes as no surprise considering I am Atwood’s fangirl and have been for a long time.I feel everyone will something else to speak to them in these stories.
To me it was the summer camps which play an important in two of the stories: True Trash and Death by Landscape.
It was a camp ran by army people and our ‘waiters’ were 19 year old boys in uniforms who were doing their military service (obligatory in Poland back then).
"He is English and Jewish, both at once.
To Marcia he seems more English; still, she isn't sure whether his full name is Augustus or Gustav or something else entirely.
Possibly he is also gay; it's hard for her to tell with literate Englishmen.
Some days they all seem gay to her, other days they all seem not gay.
Flirtation is no clue, because Englishmen of this class will flirt with anything.
She's noticed this before.
They will flirt with dogs if nothing else is handy.
What they want is a reaction: they want their charm to have an effect, to be reflected back to them."Mmm, classic Atwood.
taken me ages to get to this. Review coming, but meanwhile just want to boast. I realised as I opened this book that the story 'The Age of Lead' was in this collection with me!: here's the table of contents: sorry, but it's not often you get a contents page that reads Atwood, Barnes, Beard, Boyd... and also includes two of my other favourite authors Munro and Trevor. So, good excuse to display the evidence...
Não sei porque se falava tão pouco dessa autora antes da estreia da série baseada no Conto da Aia. Tenho certeza que ela será minha maior descoberta de 2017 e seus livros estarão entre preferidos do ano. Poucas coletâneas de contos conseguem reunir tantas histórias bem escritas e tocantes como essa, de um jeito tão simples. Só conseguir amar todas.
This is how Atwood sets up her metaphor-reliant stories; as lots of people do, I guess; ad then that's the magic act, if you can pull it all together at the end.) Mysteriously, "Hack Wednesday" does not work, and I wonder if that's just because something somehow fell short at the end.
If it was supposed to be there, but wasn't, then I can't see it; because that's how this magic act works: only the writer _can_ see it -- she needs to string it out, to pull it out so that it's visible to the rest of us.Anyway.
I like how her writing works with hidden things.
It is hard to comment on such a perfectly executed collection of short stories as those found in Margaret Atwood's Wilderness Tips.
Her protagonists, mainly woman with 2 male exceptions, are persevering, confronting, and surviving in the particular wilderness they face, whether real or emotional.
For some of the characters events in the past are forcing them to confronting the present.
Really, Margaret Atwood presents an excellent example of how to succeed at writing short stories in this collection.
She always tells her poignant stories with exact details and descriptions.
The stories can be melancholy, eerie, disturbing, contemplative, humorous, or unsettling, while the prose is always descriptive and concise.
I checked this out of the local library and downed it very quickly, more to be done with it that from extreme enjoyment.While I think Atwood is a terrific stylist, her works leave me cold, and her endings invariably disappoint.
Although Lois in "Death by Landscape" merited a bit of pity, Atwood did not do anything to make me feel it.
Engaging rarely seems to be the point, so I guess I'll have a permanent disconnect with the sad, pathetic, ambitious, ruthless inhabitants of Atwood's fiction.
This is a marvellous collection of short stories by Margaret Attwood.
Each story opens with a cracker of a first line, and ends with me feeling like i have had the stuffing knocked out of me.
Who wouldn't want to read on with a first line like that.
Margaret Attwood seems to have the ability to take hold of a feeling and give it words, give that feeling a story.
And then the contrast with old 'Veg' who pulled out the rug from under her feet, and caused such a shift in Susanna's thinking.
Īsti neesmu īso stāstu cienītāja - sevišķi tādu, kas vairāk ir dzeja prozā - noķerts mirklis, uzplaiksnījums, kam nav ne sākuma, ne beigu, ne risinājuma. Talants gan ir un paliek talants, tāpēc 3* obligātas.
Wilderness Tips by Margaret Atwood is an anthology of ten short stories that are touching but yet extremely unsettling.
Each story exemplifies a split second in a person’s life that changes them forever.
They grow from immature and naive to mature and harsh in just a few pages and all of the stories ended up being dark with themes of loss, missed chances, blunders, and sad comprehension.
While the themes are all dark all ten of the stories had the same truth that rings true in every reader’s life.
I love Margaret Atwood! There I said it. This collection of short stories is great and really showcases her quirky, dark sense of humour. My favourites were Hairball, Uncles and Weight. A great read.
This is a wonderful book of Feminist Stories. Chock full of misogyny and lady rage. Please read if you like women.
I enjoyed reading this somewhat unusual group of stories which are tied together loosely with some common themes.She writes about summer camps, mental breakdowns, marriage and relationships, death, women’s careers and women’s rights, newspapers and social issues.Some of the stories have surprise endings, some include graphic medical details, and all of them are reflective about times past.Here’s a brief description of each story:“True Trash” takes place at Camp Adanaqui and is a coming-of-age story about a group of boys who spy on the older teenage waitresses at the camp.
‘True Trash’ (the first one) could be a sort of Canadian ‘Stand By Me’, minus the corpse (I’m a sucker for a what-if like that).
And ‘Uncles’ – I just adored the description of these kind, overweight men, blinking like bears and the provincial family squabbles.
There are plenty of takes on ‘the Canada that was’ (Gothic, provincial, all a bit uptight).
It gives good Toronto too (a particular joy for me, having been born there): one of the characters in ‘True Trash’ goes on to hang out with the hippies in Yorkville.

A couple days ago I found a note stuck in another book which I had decided to donate away, which was a record of my partial book completions from probably 20 years ago.
It said I had stopped halfway through Aldous Huxley's "Island" and had read all but the last two stories in Margaret Atwood's "Wilderness Tips" short stories (among others).I decided to see if I could get a copy of Wilderness Tips from the library and finish it, and have now done so.
I'm pretty sure that 20 years is the longest I've ever taken to finish a book!

I enjoy Atwood (I have previously read The Handmaid's Tale, Bodily Harm, Oryx And Crake, The Blind Assasin...and I think that's it) and had not read any of her short stories before. While I liked most of the short stories, I didn't find them as compelling as her novels. They were interesting to me but a little depressing, as they were mostly about lives that didn't go the way that people thought they would, lost potential, and also how time passes us by. Eek!
One of the best collections of short stories I have read till now. Masterfully composed, interesting, full of psychological insight, moving and with irresistible wit, dark humour. Atwood has a way of perfectfully introducing the characters and slipping in all background information the reader needs to get full understanding of what is happening.
Compare it to Raymond Carver, and Atwood has better characters yet doesn’t create as much sympathy.It’s odd.
So Atwood couldn’t get around her tiny flaw here, but it doesn’t matter when everything else is so brilliant.Short story collections can be hard to review.
Keep in mind that fiction deals with the most unstable aspect with reality – humans, their relationship and how they experience the world.Some opt for a dry, ‘nothing ever happens’ style to inform the reader it’s realistic.
Her men and women aren’t heroes and villains, but flawed people.
See more of my book reviews on my blog, Literary FlitsI've enjoyed several Margaret Atwood novels over the years, but didn't realise she had also published short story collections until I spotted this one at a charity book sale.
Then ten stories are, as I would expect from Atwood, wonderfully well written and I enjoyed reading them all.
Often I find short story collections to be a bit hit and miss, but that was absolutely not true in this case.
Now, a couple of days after finishing the book, that I have come to write this review however, I realise that I can't actually remember all the stories individually.
A completely different approach to short stories than Atwood's 'Good Bones and Simple Murders.' That collection felt very experimental. This collection felt refined and polished. I've been reading a ton of short stories recently and as soon as I started this it was evident of how superior Atwood is from the average author. 'True Trash', the first story in the collection, does some remarkable things and Atwood makes it look easy. Only one or two stories fell flat, the rest were wonderful.
In Wilderness Tips, Margaret Atwood writes ten short stories that are at once poignant and deeply disturbing.
The women’s movement took special prominence in these stories as they described the changes they in particular experience over that span of sixty years of human history, especially the changing face of womanhood and feminism.Of the stories that struck me the most there was "True Trash", illuminating the difference between the "dot dot dot" of romance in the war years and the sexually explicit romance of modern day.
"Hairball" was also a disturbing look at the changing face of womanhood and what women have had to give up in order to get ahead.
dažiem dotu trīs zvaigznes, dažiem piecas, daži bija citu atkārtojumi vai tik (negribu teikt vāji, jo tas ir nepieklājīgi pret tādu rakstnieci) nu, tik bālāki, ka varēja arī nebūt.
man patīk atvudas valoda, bet man ir aizdomas (nu labi, es zinu, esmu lasījis penelopiādi), ka šeit tā nav redzama visā krāšņumā.
sieviete un viņas raušanās uz neatkarību vispār ir tāda ļoti izteikta tēma un, cik nu par atvudu zinu, ne te vien tā viņai ir aktuāla.
citviet šķita, ka viņai pietrūkst uz kā būvēt tēlu raksturus vai viņa pati nav tos līdz galam izpētījusi.
I am not a fan of the short story genre; in fact, the only reason I picked up this book is because I am such an enormous fan of Margaret Atwood's.
Atwood's usual flair for creating characters that were multidimensional and realistic was at work in most of the stories.
If, however, you are a fan of the short story genre, you will likely enjoy this book even more so than I, in which case I'd highly reccommend you read it
This is classic Atwood in easy-to-chew pieces.
The stories, ranging from mildly depressing to deeply tragic, are almost beside the point.
She is the loner kid who sits at the table watching everyone, learning (from a distance) to see beneath the insouciance, rebellion, the nearly unflappable cool… horribly scarred characters in her books always have some kind of redeeming value.
There are no one-dimensional villains in her worlds, and the most pathetic dooms are portrayed with compassion.
Yet on a fundamental level, all of her protagonists say the same thing: I don’t know how I got here, what I’m doing, or why everyone is staring at me.
