https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/587597.Less_Than_Angels
I was certainly in good hands with Pym. The book really begins with the return of Tom Mallow, a twenty-nine-year-old anthropologist who has been in Africa studying a primitive tribe for the past couple of years.
A point that Pym herself was trying to convey in this book."It is often supposed that those who live and work in academic or intellectual circles are above the petty disputes that vex the rest of us, but it does sometimes seem as if the exalted nature of their work makes it necessary for them to descend occasionally and to refresh themselves, as it were, by squabbling about trivialities."Catherine Oliphant is a novelist and in a relationship with Tom. She is eager for his return to the flat they share together.
'After all, life isn’t really so unpleasant as some writer make out, is it?' she added hopefully. 'No, perhaps not. It’s comic and sad and indefinite – dull, sometimes, but seldom really tragic or deliriously happy, except when one’s very young.' 'After the war, I got a job at the International African Institute in London. I was mostly engaged in editorial work, smoothing out the written results of other people’s researches, but I learned more than that in the process. I learned how it was pos
I was mostly engaged in editorial work, smoothing out the written results of other people’s researches, but I learned more than that in the process.
I learned how it was possible and even essential to cultivate an attitude of detachment towards life and people, and how the novelist could even do “field-work” as the anthropologist did.
The result of all this was a novel called Less Than Angels, which is about anthropologists working at a research centre in London, and also the suburban background of Deirdre, one of the heroines, and her life with her mother and aunt.
More complicated and sad than Excellent Women, much better than Jane and Prudence.
As grey a world as you'd expect, with people as small as you'd think, but shot through with at least a few characters that try to stay alive- I loved Catherine.
The stock secondary younger set were entertaining.
A lot more open and biting humor than I'd seen in either of the other two novels I'd read.
Digby is the only one who can come over for dinner with Catherine, go hang the rest.
I think I'd quite like to read Quartet in Autumn next.
I'm reading Pym's novels in sequence and this, her fourth, a tale of anthropologists and their loved ones in 1950s English suburbia, didn't grab me nearly as much as the first three. Not at first. But at a certain point Pym set her character Catherine, a nonconforming romance novelist, aflame: I was suddenly gobsmacked, wondering just how far the blaze might carry us.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Another very pleasurable comedy by the marvelous Pym. I hesitate to call her novels comfort reads, lest someone think I mean fluffy, sugary, Nicholas Sparksy kind of stuff.
Even when they think they are being mean-spirited, they are really quite adorable, as in this conversation between two struggling young anthropologists discussing another, more successful peer:'I should have thought that one might have discerned the faintest glimmer of his genius by now.''Certainly his conversation isn't brilliant, perhaps even ours is a little better than his', said Digby uncertainly.
4.5 stars.Excellent writing and the satire about anthropologists was a lot of fun, though the book is more about the relations between men & women in my opinion. I would guess that this is semi-autobiographical based on the little I know about Pym's life... maybe that is why she can hit the mark so accurately!
Compared with the other Barbara Pym novels I’ve read, I found ‘Less Than Angels’ more serious in tone and content.
I was struck by this observation:"Now who would like some potato salad?” said Rhoda, feeling like there was something a little unappetising about the conversation.
Certainly she had to admit that the conversation was different from what it usually was and perhaps that was the best that could be expected.Although a nearly bewildering profusion of characters populate ‘Less Than Angels’, the strongest voice belongs to Catherine.
Although ‘Less Than Angels’ wasn’t as much fun as Excellent Women or Jane and Prudence, I found it more moving and memorable as a result.
""Do they understand the principles of cooking as we know it?" asked Rhoda."Oh, yes, a good many of them do," said Alaric.
"They flung a kangaroo on the fire and cooked it like that.""Now who would like some potato salad?" said Rhoda, feeling that there was something a little unappetizing about the conversation.
But she saw now the conversation could also be compared to a series of incongruous objects, scrubbing-brushes, dish-clothes, knives, being flung or hurtling rather than spinning, which were sometimes not caught at all but fell to the ground with resounding thuds.
I’m a slow reader and Ms Pym’s work seemed to have the ability to slow me down more.
Why with this writer’s ability to write with such agility and candor the sadness of our lives, do we still find ourselves with more knowledge and so little wisdom?Within one scene, the aunt of a rather lost and self-centered anthropologist approaches his former lover.
A last novel does not depress me – and I know as I approach grim old age, I’ll re read Ms Pym’s work.
3'5 ⭐
This one is full of anthropologists, and what could be better?
And then there is also wonderful Catherine Oliphant, who is a writer, but as Pym makes clearer and clearer in each of her books novelists are like anthropologists in that they too study and document the human condition.
Catherine lives with Tom, who has been away for two years doing his fieldwork in Africa.
It's all wonderful.
I think I smile the whole time I am reading a Barbara Pym novel.
Tercer libro que leo de Pym y, creo, el más melancólico y triste. Tienen algo sus novelas que me da mucha paz: la cotidianidad, la época y el lugar... Aunque quizá con esta he sentido un poco que había fórmulas repetidas que ya vi en "Amor no correspondido" y "Mujeres excelentes". Por cierto, hay spoilers de "Mujeres excelentes" en este, están conectados en cierto modo, así que mejor leer primero aquel y luego "Un poco menos que ángeles". Me ha gustado, pero pese a la tranquilidad que me aporta, tal vez sea el que menos me ha enganchado.
Loved, loved, loved it! I was a bit afraid when I read Jane and Prudence and found myself disliking the characters so much, but the characters in this one were once again written with the compassionate detachment that I'd appreciated in Pym's first two. I think this is my favorite so far. Catherine Oliphant's such a lovable character, and Digby and Marks, too.I'm appreciating how the separate novels are beginning to be so connected--a character from a previous one pops up in passing reference, and it's like being pleasantly surprised to discover a mutual acquaintance.
Pym is known for her slice of life British stories. This did not disappoint. Written in 1955, it's a satirical look at the life of professors of anthropology in a small college, close to either Cambridge or Oxford, I forget which. Pym cleverly flips things so the reader is analyzing the lives of the anthropologists. She manages to bring up missionaries' role, women's struggle for equality, middle class norms, and everyone's struggle for a sense of place.

Deirdre lives in comfortable but stereotypical suburbia with her mother, aunt and brother, next door to another anthropologist Alaric Lydgate - occasionally to be seen wearing African masks around his home.
Esther Clovis who we first met in Excellent Women, is now working with her friend Miss Lydgate (sister to Alaric) at the research centre.
The subject of Miss Clovis’s quarrel with the President was known only to a privileged few and even those knew no more than that it had something to do with the making of tea” The ageing Professor Mainwaring is in hopes of acquiring research money from Minnie Foresight, money which will awarded in grants to a couple of lucky young anthropologists.
The two primary characters, Catherine and Tom, live together at the beginning of the novel.
Catherine is a writer of women's stories for a magazine, who realizes that her way of making a living is by writing frivolous stories allows her to be an independent woman who can afford to do most of the things she enjoys.All of the characters are interesting.
I didn't really see it coming, but when it happened, it didn't seem suddenly manufactured like such things are in more modern works.I really enjoyed reading this, and hope to find a few more of Barbara Pym's books to get to know her better.
I'm currently re-reading much of Barbara Pym and really feel that the impact of her writing is best experienced by reading a group of her novels, rather than just one.I perused some other reviewers comments on her books and gulped as one reader called her (essentially) an early Chick Lit writer; to me, that entirely misses the point of her writing.
A woman's role in society (in the post war years through the 70's)is central to her writing and Pym's point of view is a poignant and heady reminder on how limiting society was in the post war years.
A snapshot of the lives of various people, predominantly middle class and all connected to an anthropology school in some way.
Some are rather tiresome, like Tom, writing his thesis and strangely attractive to various women.
I absolutely loved one--Catherine Oliphant, a writer of magazine articles who loves Victorian poetry.
And I became rather fond of others as their characters were revealed slowly over the course of this novel.
I don't know 1950s Britain in the least but this felt so true, like a window into reality.
Pym has a wonderfully understated way of observing the world, and can sum up a great deal in just a few sentences.
I'm on page 206. Here's a quote I really like: Catherine is thinking this after Tom's aunt has come to visit her: The day was coming to its end, and although it had been tiring and upsetting it had at least been full and that, she supposed, was all to the good. Pain, amusement, surprise, resignation, were all woven together into a kind of fabric whose colour and texture she could hardly visualize as yet. Something with little lumps on it, she thought, knobs or knops as it said in the fashion magazines.
We're in the familiar world (underworld?) of anthropology again, but with the added spice of Catherine Oliphant who writes stories for women's magazines, as well as several other wanna-be anthropologists who turn out not to "wanna-be." Plus, we NEARLY have a happy ending! But not so happy as to be un-Pym. :-)
I want to step back in time and savor this book...just opened it and am starting to read!OK, finished it today and I found it an extremely pleasant book to read. The plot is basically simple, involving everyday occurances--some tragedy, you could say but the way it's written makes you feel you are there sharing every aspect of it! I loved all of the characters also, especially Catherine!
Outstanding. I'm constantly amazed by Pym's ability to take mundane, commonplace situations and create magic. The beauty of her writing is in the detail, and since this was her last book I was fascinated by the themes of illness, death and dying. The fact that she knew she was dying when she wrote it, and that it remains free from pathos, speaks highly of her abilities as a writer.
I found "Less Than Angels" somewhat disappointing, as compared to other novels by Barbara Pym I've read. I had trouble actually liking or identifying with any of the characters. Quite well written, of course, but lacking this "je ne sais quoi", which makes a great book for me. Three and a half stars.
I've read almost all of Pym's novels and all of them so far deserve 5 stars. She was a brilliant writer and reading her novels makes me very happy. Having said that, this wasn't my favorite Pym, but by no means a disappointment.

LESS THAN ANGELS. (1955). Barbara Pym. ****. After first meeting a cast of thousands, Ms. Pym finally settles down and gets on with her story of Catherine Oliphant, a journalist and short story writer who has been cast among a drove of anthropologists and their circles. She manages to examine all of them with a critical, but realistic eye, while only barely undertanding what it is they do in “the field.” She is middle-class, C. of E. (reluctantly), and a single woman (read spinster) of a certain
After first meeting a cast of thousands, Ms. Pym finally settles down and gets on with her story of Catherine Oliphant, a journalist and short story writer who has been cast among a drove of anthropologists and their circles.
She lives with a student anthropologist, Tom Mallow, who has recently returned from the field (Africa) after a two-year stint of research.
Tom meets a young woman, Deidra Swann, a younger student at the college, also studying anthropology.
What is made clear is the difference in objectives between the seasoned academics and their young students, a difference that exists in all academic fields of endeavor.
One of my very favorite Barbara Pyms. I have read it five times (some have been listens rather than reads)
She lives with Tom Mallow, a young, insipid anthropologist who is very busy writing his thesis.
But then, Deirdre Swan, a nineteen year old, naïve student becomes infatuated with the self-centred Tom and Catherine is jilted without a second thought.
Pym worked for an anthropological journal for several years so it's not surprising that anthropologists are recurring characters in her books.
In Pym's novels, men seem merely to exist in order to be taken care of women.This is another lovely Pym novel, a biting satire peopled with the funny, flawed characters and their sad lives we expect from this brilliant writer.
