https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29923.The_Last_Full_Measure
“If God is watching us, what judgement does he make now?”With the completion of “The Last Full Measure”, I have read every novel that Mr. Shaara has written (to date) about the American Civil War. Oddly enough, even though this text was written second out of his six books about the Civil War, the writing might be the best of the group.
The chapter is told from Grant’s point of view and gives an interesting insight into the mind of the victor when he respects his enemy.
The reader comes to understand the passion of these men as well as the Union commander Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain who came away from Gettysburg a hero.
It was, for Lee the torment he could not get free from.The reader also feels the strength of Grant.
His field commanders, like Chamberlain, were willing to carry out the orders he issued because they trusted his talent and judgement.The pain that I felt came from the fact that a proud and dedicated Robert E.
“Ordinary people caught up in extraordinary times.”  When the armies of the North and the South walked away from the Battle of Gettysburg in July of 1863, the victor was clear, but you wouldn't have known by the casualty numbers alone. 50,000 men had been killed, wounded, or captured over those three days, roughly an equal loss for each side. Michael Shaara (Jeff's father) wrote about this battle in his book, The Killer Angels, and I had wondered why he chose that point in time to focus a narra
When the armies of the North and the South walked away from the Battle of Gettysburg in July of 1863, the victor was clear, but you wouldn't have known by the casualty numbers alone.
It also marked the first time that General Lee's soldiers had been truly repelled by the Union Army.
If the North had lost that battle, the final outcome of the war, and our country could have been very different.Jeff Shaara separates the individual parts of The Last Full Measure with sentences from the short, yet inspiring and elegant address delivered on the grounds of the Gettysburg battle.
"The Last Full Measure" is the final book in the Civil War trilogy by the Shaaras.
"The Last Full Measure" covers the two years following Gettysburg to Lee's surrender at Appomattox.
As did his father, Jeff Shaara writes about these war years by focusing on a few key characters.
(Not a comprehensive listing) Throughout these battles, we see Lee's weary but indomitable spirit and the devotion of his army, although they were badly outnumbered; and we see Grant's dogged determination to prevail and the gradual realization of his army that this General would not retreat, as had so many of their leaders before him.We also see a gratified Lincoln: he had finally found a General who was not overly cautious, who would press forward unafraid.
*SPOILER*You should read the first part of the book until you get bored, the Petersburg chapter, and the chapter where Lee freaks out about being sent gunpowder from Richmond instead of food for his starving soldiers.Maybe I'm being too hard on this book--I feel like I definitely learned a lot about the final days of the Civil War and why the South ultimately lost, but I have to be honest: it became torturous for me to get to the end.
I dreaded having to pick this book up and try to read another chapter.
He overuses phrases of his own making that often confuse the reader left not knowing who he is talking about or who is doing the talking.
He tries to describe the feelings of the characters when he couldn't possibly know what was going in their minds.
And I am only referring to the parts that we don't already know as facts from other memoirs and letters.
It is this part of the book that will probably persuade me to keep it on my shelf and possibly read it again.
A fitting conclusion to an excellent Civil War trilogy. While Jeff Shaara isn't quite as good a writer as his father Michael ("Killer Angels"), he still does a great job of capturing the look and feel of the scenes and characters. Shaara's portrayal of General Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain is particularly compelling. Few moments in American history are as tragic or as poignant as the surrender at Appomattox Court House and the events leading up to it, and Shaara tells that story masterfully. Great book!
Lee. Indeed, most of the book alters perspectives between the two leaders as well as presenting the viewpoint of Joshua Chamberlain, unlikely hero of Gettysburg and a man who had a Forest Gump-like ability to be in the right place at the right time, culminating in his being the man to whom the South first attempts to surrender at Appomattox at the end of the war.There is an awful lot of history to cover here and even though this book weighs in at over 600 pages, the author had to choose his scenes carefully to be able to present the larger story.
The Last Full Measure takes its title from words in Lincoln’ indescribable Gettysburg Address:“It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced.
But if we are weary spectators of the carnage as we read, we at least didn’t have to live through it.To read Shaara’s well-documented and yet fascinating and unforgettable novel is to walk beside our national ancestors and share (in a very small way) in their sufferings.
This work suffers from the same flaws as God and Generals. Shaara simply fails to reproduce the genius of his father. The only book in this trilogy that needs to be read is Michael Shaara's original "The Killer Angels."
Enjoyed rereading this one to prepare for our trip to Virginia and Washington DC in October
I will find the information provided and animation of the principal players excellent background to my visit.I do think that the author did draw out the book a little, and relied on " the hand of God" theme overly much, but I'm probably looking for a reason to rate the book a little less than its excellent antecedent.I recommend the book to Civil War buffs, but make sure you read The Killer Angels by Michael Shaara first.
The first half was interesting, and I had read the first two books of the trilogy ("Killer Angels" and "Gods and Generals"), so I wanted to finish it.
The last third or so of the book was a detailed account of the last weeks and days of the Army of the Potomac (Grant) vs.
At times Shaara's writing about the battles and the sacrifices by men on both sides of the war will bring you to tears.
This book left me with a much deeper understanding of the Civil War and the people on both sides whose lives it touched.
I highly recommend this trilogy to anyone interested in the Civil War.
Shaara does a great job in pulling the reader into the conflict as each battle plays out.
The growing desperation of the South, as its supplies give out and its numbers dwindle, the growing confidence of the North, which iswell supplied and with an almost unending supply of men.
Lee has to watch while his men go hungry, dressed practically in rags, and wonder when enough will be enough.
Grant has the full force of the North’s riches, in both supplies and men, and knows how to use them.
Gradually it comes to both how inevitable the North’s win is.The book is a wonderful conclusion to this magnificent trilogy.
Excellent finish to a remarkable trilogy. Anyone who has a passing knowledge of the Civil War needs to read this set of books. It is an exciting and well told story which will certainly lead me to reading more about this period in US history. Start with Killer Angels. Gods and Generals was good and The Last Full Measure was an amazing way to bring it to the end.
Shaara's storytelling takes the reader inside the lines of troops, generals, battle plans, and even strategies to defeat the other side.
He illustrates the progress of both sides by personalising the story, using characters on both sides of the fighting to bring a more complete and in-depth analysis and presentation of the facts.While the audiobook narration of the book left much to be desired, I was quite impressed with the story and the detail Shaara invested to give the reader the best possible presentation of the war.
This is a more than satisfying conclusion to the Shaara family Civil War Trilogy that chronologically begins with Jeff's "Gods and Generals", and continued with his late father Michael's masterful account of Gettysburg in the "Killer Angels".
Primarily it is Grant and Lee who show us the war from Gettysburg through its conclusion and beyond.
When the scene finally arrives where Lee surrenders to Grant and then when the South lays down arms to Chamberlain...this is so touchingly written that I could not help be teary-eyed throughout this passage.
A good read if you really want to know everything about every battle in the civil war.
Favorite quotes:- pg 505- “you just go about your work and your duty with absolute honesty, you fight for something you believe in without any other motive.
You don’t create honor, it creates you.” -Chamberlain Pg 509- chamberlain saw the faces again, the men in the road looking up at the flag, thought Yes, it is still yours...it always has been yours.
You have proven you will fight and for something that you believe in.
That is exactly what this flag means, has always meant.
I loved Michael Shaara's book about Gettysburg, The Killer Angels, and so it was with a lot of anticipation (and a bit of anxiety) that I started reading his son Jeff's companion volumes.
But I keep finding them overwritten, too much telling, not enough showing, and sometimes so sprawling and incoherent that I, someone who has studied the Civil War in detail and knows a fair amount about it, have trouble keeping track of who is doing what where.
What is Jeff Shaara good at, though?
His Civil War travel book.
It shows evidence of a storytelling gene that his novels lack, and lots of useful information besides.
Just arrived from USA trough BM.Even if I haven't read his father's book The Killer Angels, I was able to follow this magnificent epic based on the American Civil War.General Lee's surrender to General Grant was very touching and very well described by the author.His American Revolutionary War (1770-1783) series is also memorable and unforgettable.
Like his father before him with Killer Angels, Jeff Shaara weaves a masterful portrait focusing on Lee, Grant and Chamberlain in the closing days of the war. The battles are detailed and precise; the men are real and fascinating. Highly recommended for both civil war buffs & historical fiction fans.
Interesting account of the leaders during the second half of the American Civil War. A little dry, but I enjoyed it, both from the presentation of the characters and the historical information. Recommended.
Chamberlain, a former professor of rhetoric at Bowdoin College in New Brunswick, Maine, will be promoted to Brigadier General for his battle-changing charge at Gettysburg.
Grant is unlike other Union Generals—he doesn’t hesitant to pursue his enemy even after a major battle (as had Meade after Gettysburg), and his goal is not the politically symbolic taking of Richmond but the destruction of Lee’s Army of Northern Virginia.
On the second day Grant surprises Lee with an early morning attack, almost routing Lee’s army.
Lee surrenders to Grant at Appomattox, where three days later the Army of Northern Virginia will deliver its weapons and disband.
There is a significance to this that goes far beyond our borders, and far beyond our time."Grant saw the key to ending the war as not taking Richmond, but taking Lee. The men fight not for their confederacy, the paranoid Davis, or belief in a more moral way to live...
Amazing that he later became president himself, though seemingly to fulfill what his friend Lincoln could not after assassination.Chamberlain after the successfull attack on pickett's right flank at Appomattox river, general warren was dismissed by sheridan for being too slow and not getting into the fight.
I'm not a Military history buff but since I moved to Alabama 3 years ago, I have been trying to understand much more about the Civil War, Reconstruction and the Southern Heritage in general.
Shaara has masterfully told the story of the last two years of the Civil War in both a balanced and personal way.
He is made commander of the whole Federal army and he has a plan.
He has greater resources and more importantly, a bigger and replacable army, and he knows Lee has neither.
Grant does not fight a pretty war, and like Zhukov less than a century later, his tactics expend men, in the knowledge that Lee cannot reciprocate.
As his trusted commanders fall, he is left more and more isolated, health deteriorating as Cold Harbour, Petersburg and Five Forks give us a chilling foretaste of the salughter of the Great War. Sad to leave this trilogy and the personal insights into its protagonists
I had a really hard time reading the last of this Civil War trilogy.
My take away from The Last Full Measure is that if the general populous is not affected by the devastations of war, then no one will do anything to stop the war.
If you can believe this fictional account of the war, the Civil War was not won by battles, but by preventing the citizens of the south to provide the troops supplies and by destroying the ability of the population to thrive.
And, for the first time there were also pictures, "awful collections of photographs"to remind us, to teach us about the consequences of war.
Better than I expected, but maybe most because Jeff Shaara is still overshadowed by his father's prose in TKA.
This book, in my opinion, is another example to prove that Jeff's writing is actually better that that of his father.
In particular, I liked the addition and emphasis on Grant's character - it felt true to me and it was very readable.
Chamberlain's character, for some reason, fell off for me.
And his characterization felt forced in some way.
Only other knock on the book is the last few chapters - the post war chapters.
Ending didn't feel as clean as I would have liked.
However, compared to “The Killer Angels” (the previous book in this trilogy, written by the author’s father), the writing style was a bit disappointing—it did not draw this reader into the action as effectively, did not tap into the deep well of human emotion that this fratricidal conflict can still recall.
That being said, the device of juxtaposing the perspectives of Lee and Grant was particularly effective, and bringing publisher Samuel Clemens/Mark Twain in to visit Grant as he raced to finish his memoirs before being felled by throat cancer was spellbinding.
This story of the civil war from after Gettysburg to Appomattox is a bit of a slog.
It i interesting in places, and mostly does a decent job of integrating history, fact, and educated conjecture, but it frequently bogs down in its own explication.
And unless you are a dedicated civil war buff (in which case you are probably not reading this book), Wikipedia becomes your best friend as you research references, battles, personalities and locations that aren't adequately covered in the text.
All told, it is worth reading, but more as an introduction to, rather than a definitive history of, the last half of the civil war.
