https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1710121.Armed_With_Madness
a flight of birds: into an exaltation of larks rides a lone ranger, an American abroad; into the mouth of modernism flew Mary Butts, an author now sadly obscure. five fanciful English, young and feckless and rich and poisonous; more than five streams of consciousness and Butts balances them all, their thoughts and motives and reactions ebbing and flowing and creating patterns melancholy and frustrating and possibly tragic.an unkindness of ravens swarm and mock and toy with the poor American, or
five fanciful English, young and feckless and rich and poisonous; more than five streams of consciousness and Butts balances them all, their thoughts and motives and reactions ebbing and flowing and creating patterns melancholy and frustrating and possibly tragic.an unkindness of ravens swarm and mock and toy with the poor American, or at least that is the situation from his rather limited perspective; Butts makes certain the reader understands the untruth of that point of view, the myopia, as well the fragility of the situation itself: five childish English who barely understand themselves, let alone each other, living in a castle made of snowflakes.a siege of herons...
Strange. Wonderfully strange. Confusingly strange. Frustratingly strange. Beautifully strange. The mythic beneath and within the romantic and the familial. The land and its past. The Grail. Love and madness. Unjustly and unforgivably Buried. Here is a little more about her: http://writersnoonereads.tumblr.com/p...(oh and dont try hunting down this edition - get this one - https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1... )
A peculiar story of a clan of youngish vacationer/hermit/aristocrat/bohemians in the reaches of the English countryside, spinning mythologies they can't really believe but romantically desire (as we do as readers) from the raw material of their own ennui.
A quest into the particular landscapes of modern disaffection, rendered in a specific language of precise occlusion designed to lure us into believing in at least the outside possibility of the manifestly nonexistent.
And this is strange structurally, spinning out into a phase of knight errantry around its central ironically dismissed quest, then condensing through its actual melodrama to an unexpected conclusion of intense focus and seeming mythic relevance.
Otherworldly writing here...prose that reads like a bewitched spider's web of words spun by spirits from another realm. (Read in the Taverner Novels edition.)
yep, another from Writers No one Reads. Admired by her contemporaries Ezra Pound, Ford Madox Ford, and Marianne Moore, Butts’ writing (where it gathers any light at all) tends to be overshadowed by her notorious escapades, which included practicing black magic with Aleister Crowley, smoking enormous amounts of opium, and abandoning her only child.butWritten as an inverse of Eliot’s desolate Waste Land, Armed With Madness is Butts’ finest work, an ecstatic, allegorical quest for meaning in a world shattered by war and nihilism.here's a painting of her:
Don't read Virginia Woolf, read Mary Butts; and it's even better if you listen to PJ Harvey's album White Chalk at the same time.
Then again, the central coterie with their curious hobbies, tangled loves and a sense of great invisible dramas behind their actions reminded me of Iris Murdoch, not least because Butts has the same weakness for decorously implausible names (Scylla Taverner!
Like Murdoch, Butts was bullish and bisexual (with a particular fondness for largely gay men), though unlike Murdoch her own tension between common sense and mysticism tipped a little further towards the latter; one can hardly picture Iris at Thelema.
Well, bear in mind that Machen influence - the sense of the real world as a great symbol, the ritual encoded in the everyday.
Going from what little I’ve read about her, she lived a fascinating and wild life by the standards of any author: she was in Paris in the ‘20s with the likes of Joyce, Djuna Barnes, Ford Madox Ford and Wyndham Lewis (all favourites of mine), she was for a while a student of Aleister Crowley (he not so much), and she also developed something of a bad reputation for drug use and wanton affairs both straight and gay.
It’s a fascinating read as a kind of relic of its style, but I’m not sure I can entirely recommend it.
The words flow like water. It's like Mary Butts was Virginia Woolf's eccentric little sister.
Maybe, or maybe not...Mary Butts evokes her wild setting – a wasteland for human beings – in extraordinary language, intercut with myth, rituals, and symbols.
The sentences seem to disintegrate in places, the characters disperse, the plot thins, and – like Carston – I’m left wondering what’s going on .
“The boys were off by now, somewhere on Gault cliffs, which was not a nice place, but a wonder and a horror, overhanging a gulf over a wood full of foxes the surf lapped, where even she had never been.
You can listen to an in-depth discussion of Armed with Madness on Sherds Podcast: http://www.holdfastnetwork.com/sherds...
I haven't read enough modernist prose to be able to make the judgement, but it's certainly distinctive.
The only thing like it I've ever read is The Sheltering Sky, which resembles it very closely.
If Paul Bowles had not read Mary Butts, I'll eat my hat.
The novel is not an easy read (I'm probably being premature in writing a review after only one encounter; that I shall be reading it again is not in doubt); one has to do quite a bit of work oneself as a reader to make sense of what's going on, but it is well worth the effort.
I suspect that after I have read it again, I shall be wanting to come back and give it four stars.
