https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153156.The_Sermon_on_the_Mount
I was in my early twenties, depressed (boyfriend troubles), and spending a lot of time in therapy discussions with God (OK, call it prayer).
One day at work, I needed to use a special computer so was sitting at someone else's desk while they were on vacation, and I looked up and saw this book on his shelf (Sermon on the Mount).
Feeling kinda close to God at that point of my life and intrigued by the title, I pulled the book out and began reading it.
I'm not even sure I totally agree, but it opened my mind and progressed me further on my spiritual journey.
Not only does this reserve good fortune solely for the Christian (a rather unChristian way of thinking, it seems to me), but ignores the fact that disease, decay, misfortune, pain, and death are as much parts of the human condition as are health, joy, pleasure, and vigor.
To deny the so-called shadow side of our lives is simply to live in blissful ignorance; this is not true wisdom.Two other problems I have with this philosophy: the corollary to this line of thinking would seem to be that anyone who experiences difficulty simply hasn't prayed hard enough, an onerous form of blaming the victim; and, this philosophy assumes that humans know what is good for us, and have an understanding similar to God's in this regard.
While it is by no means official "recovery" literature, this books is a staple for many in Alcoholics Anonymous, especially the "old timers." Fox's writing style is hard to navigate, but the ideas ushered in our modern age of spirituality. Comforting and understandable ideas about viewing life as a spiritual exercise and journey. Before the age of audio books, I read portions of this and recorded it as a gift for an older friend who lived and died by these words.
Love this book! It sounds 'religious' but Emmet Fox nips that in the bud right away when he says: 'the plain fact is that Jesus taught no theology whatever. His teaching is entirely spiritual or metaphysical.'to be read over and over and over and...
having read only 30 or so pages I am deeply engrossed by Fox's view of Christianity as distinct from Christian doctrine. I do not consider myself a "religious" person and do not regularly attend church. Fox claims that the most influential man in the history of Man had little use for organized relition...I'm inclined to read more.
The publication timing of November 2012 hints of a Christmas gift.
Subtitles abound for this work: not only is this book (and Jesus’ sermon) the “key to success in life,” it is “the timeless manual on the power of positive thinking” and “the classic manual for harmonious living.” You aren’t going to get converted to orthodox Christianity by Fox–”all the doctrines and theologies of the churches are human inventions built up by their authors out of their own mentalities, and foisted upon the Bible from the outside”–but Fox’s appreciation for Jesus still shines.
Very interesting exploration of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount from a "metaphysical Christianity" perspective. Corrnerstone of New Thought ideology...definitely profound thinking... ranks withComplete Works of H. Emilie Cady in terms of a clear, concise and engaging exploration of New Thought theology. Worth reading for any intellectually engaged student of Christ, Christianity, and Spirituality...most mainline and all evangelical Christians will find this highly objectionable and the premises to be down right heretical...I still consider it important, critical reading...fascinating, challenging and thought provoking.
This is a really excellent book that talks about the sermon on the mount in light of the teaching of New Thought thinkers.
Take what he says and formulate it into your own thoughts and begin to see how the teaching of the Bible can be such vivid, practical, realistic and overflowing with the power of the living God. How big is our God?
The only downside with the book is its old English style that goes back to 1934.
But for the sake of the gems that the book has we will smoothly deal with that, won't we?
A few books will turn your perspective on a subject upside down. If the subject is spiritual life, then this book will do that. A careful study of these famous passages from Matthew 5 and 6 will disabuse you of many bad spiritual habits and thoughts. Fox's thorough digestion of the material adds clarity to the call, a call to a closer walk with Christ. There is a chapter devoted to every phrase in the Lord's Prayer. This book is a keeper.
The Law of The Universe - What you think in your mind you will produce in your experience. As within, So without....Great Book, can't wait to read a few more times and really get to know God's Will for me in all areas of my life.
WE are all on a spiritual journey, granted some of us haven't yet acknowledged our quest, some of us are only in the beginning, and others are in the middle. While others are living the most peaceful, blessed, happiest lives ever even before thought imaginable or possible - these few are continuously living in God's presence. The author is one of the many, trying to share the Truth with those who are ready to hear it. The author's teachings are simplistic and profound. an enjoyable read that could easily change your life.
The Sermon on the Mount is a Text Book I first read back in 2010.It has become the basic text in the many Emmet Fox books I now Study and use for meditations. The sermon on the Mount is a book that helps me gain spiritual perception, understand the nature of Divine Wisdome and the power of prayer.
I have been on an Emmet Fox reading bender. I cannot get enough of this writing. Self help from 1932? Yes please! Also, a breakdown of bible symbolism. Very cool.
My dad passes a lot of spiritual books my way. I really like this one, especially the interpretation of the Lord's Prayer. One could easily just read that section. Inspiring!!
No sensible person on looking about the world or studying history could sincerely accept this saying at its face value, and most honest Christians have passed it by in practice with a regretful feeling that no doubt that is how things ought to be, but that they certainly are not so in fact.
The trouble and sorrow that humanity suffers are really due to the very fact that our mode of life is so opposed to the Truth, that the things that he taught and the things that he said seem to us at first sight to be foolish and wild." - The Sermon on the Mount, Emmet Fox, pg.
In the first chapter, Fox deconstructs orthodox interpretations on scripture, stating that they have missed the boat completely and twist Jesus' words into elaborate doctrine.
Although I cannot say that I found the book to be utterly devoid of meaning (I did find some good nuggets of wisdom), I did find myself quite unsatisfied with Fox's interpretation of scripture.
This is one of the major problems with our Western interpretation of scripture and Christianity and Fox's claims that if we just pray hard enough we'll realize God's will for us, which includes all health and wealth and happiness.
The message is still there in the literature but one needs some assistance in interpreting it and that gained from meetings and sponsors often tends towards a pushing of their own views and opinions rather than the founding principles.This tract by Fox was produced as part of the early 20th Century movement against the religious interpretation of the Bible's teachings into fixed, inflexible dogma with little relevance to the living of life.
Emmet Fox and I do not agree on more than a few little issues BUT he deconstructs the "body" of religion for the separation it places between the individual and Jesus.
Believe me, the inspiring message in this book for me has allowed me to find a relationship withJesus who truly did come to bring us a message of life, love and deliverance from ourselves and fromthose in religion whose purpose is to actually alienate us from loving God.At this stage in my life my beliefs have further evolved.
That could not have happened if I had not read and reread this book
there seems to be a consensus of authors in this era towards personal growth via the God path. They also tend to lean toward each person being soley responsible for their own growth and not by following the main stream religious order. I've always felt this way and have no interest in being preached at, or being directed by organized religion of any sort. Each to his own in his relationship to his God. This book offers no real choice to spiritual growth, just opportunity to discover we are responsible, no one else.
This is an amazing book.
It makes a lot of sense to me and takes my understanding of the Bible and Christianity to a whole other level.
When I finished it I immediately started reading it again, and am doing so now.
There is a lot here to take in and to practice.I'm not sure if others will have the same experience.
I feel I am in a place where this is the right book at the right time.
One thing I found odd - the book (at least the version I read) has about a dozen typos.
The Sermon on the Mount, by Emmett Fox has been around for a long time. Fox was considered 'New Age' in his time, born 1886. Fox has taken Jesus' sermon and broken it down into little pieces, explaining the applications for our own lives. Fox's Jesus is the Son of a loving Father who gives us divine direction for living happy and prosperous lives.... It is worth the time to read and use the information that you may wish to apply personally.
If you have an interest in learning what Jesus (an enlightened human) really meant with all of his parables and teachings, then read this book. It will reveal why people took an interest in Jesus in the first place and why he has become such a huge influence.... this just makes it clear and reminds you how lost the church really is!
Some of the interpretations are a bit of a stretch, but If you skip chapter 2, and dismiss some of the more outlandish analyses, there's some great insights and masterful writing in there. Does smell suspiciously like the Four Noble Truths to me. But hey, different path/same mountain, right? Now that I'm past my petty balking @ The Beatitudes section, I'm bumping it up a star.
Every time I read this I learn new pearls. ie." Judge not that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measure to you again."and "Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life."and "Our wills are ours to make them Thine"I could go on, but I recommend you read it for yourself:)
Love is at the center of Jesus' message..so one must be open to the writer's interpretation and "see things" with the heart(and/or subconcious). Our multiple opinions of the subject matter deserve respect as we continue in our separate spiritual journeys searching for the truth.
Straightforward, non-zealous, incredibly useful line-by-line "translation" of one of the key Christian texts, as well as one for The Lord's Prayer. If you can't read scripture for the sound of the baggage cars screeching as you do, this could be the book for you.
Metaphysical take on Sermon on the Mount...frustrating so far because of the major holes in his non-theology theology...but there's bits of wisdom here too...
Sermon on the Mount isn't a book you just read, you live it. you integrate it into your life. A book that compels you to do that is worth reading.
This is absolutely one of the BEST books I've ever read. Reading it for about the 5th time after a couple of years! It is a book one would want to read over and over again! Never stop reading it!
One of the best books I've read. I highly recommend it.
