https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19486412-big-little-lies
Probably the funniest book about murder and domestic abuse I'll ever read.
On the surface this was about a group of parents whose children were starting kindergarten.
Humorously told, there are so many times this book had me laughing, some of these moms were so over the top, absolutely absurd.Under the surface was another layers, the author tackles many issues, among them bullying, spousal abuse and others.
Considering everything that was tackled in this book it should not have worked but it did, and that is to the author's credit.Everything leads up to trivia night at the school and that will bring revelations, disasters and many will find themselves changed.
This book is fine.
Yes, it deals with domestic violence and sexual assault and the pressures and pettiness of white middle class and upper class womanhood when it comes to their social lives and their children and so on, but everything here is easy, frothy.
Not every book needs to carry the weight of the world.
But at the same time, some of what this book deals with is serious and so it makes the frothiness aggravating at times.
Also, it just needs to be said, this is a very white book.
Liane Moriarty has done it again – written a book that kept me up way too late because I couldn’t put it down.
She has a knack for creating characters who are so believable they could easily be someone you know.
Big Little Lies is a story of parents acting badly.
Along the way you discover some of the dangerous little lies that people tell just to be able to face the day.
I couldn’t wait to get to the end to find out what happened that night but at the same time I was sorry that I wouldn’t be reading any more about the inhabitants of Perriwee.
Though we know someone has died from the beginning of the novel, we don't find out who it is till the end, as we go back through the histories of the participants to uncover the nagging jealousies and seething problems that led to the fatal moment.So we spend the book in a state of breathless anticipation and worry.
Or was it single mum Jane, trying to start afresh, who finds that playground bullying isn't just for the kids any more?Moriarty will keep you up late flipping pages as you follow the story of these three and the colourful characters who surround them, desperate to find out who died -- and why.
Read for Book Riot's 2017 Read Harder reading challenge: #11 Read a book that is set more than 5000 miles from your locationI was SO not expecting to love this as much as I did. dang.*review (still) to come*
I think Stephen King summed up Big Little Lies perfectly when he said it is "a hell of a book, funny and scary." I found it to be like the first two seasons of Desperate Housewives before the show started to slowly fall apart (and I've seen every episode so I feel like I'm right...
I really loved how the book started out in a fun, whimsical way by introducing me to the various characters and making me feel like everyone has everything together and life is just so swell all the time.
If I said I loved this one, it would be a Big Fat Lie. But I definitely LIKED it, despite the rough beginning.Here is my love story with Moriarty books, and it doesn’t stay all lovey-dovey, I’ll tell you that.
Since I couldn’t forget What Alice Forgot, and I thought Moriarty could do no wrong, I glistened and glowed about that book, too, even though the spark had started to go out a little, if I had been honest with myself.
The way we learn about the death is through gossipy conversations, like little asides, splashed throughout the story.
"A murder. A tragic accident.... Someone is dead. But who did what?"  WOAHHHH!!!! This book was freaking amazing!!! It was a total genre change for me -- this is women's fiction and mystery, not romance -- but I was just in the kind of mood where I was craving something totally different than what I usually read.... so I tried this one! And I was BEYOND impressed with it.Like holy WOW impressed.The writing was  fantastic  — starkly honest, detailed, introspective, observant, multi-sided… the s
You never really know what someone else is thinking or going through, what they're capable of, what secrets they're keeping...Gah. Fascinating!!!Just so you know, this is not a dark read at all.
So I'm just going to let you read the book for yourself and read them that way!I've also read another book by this author, The Husband's Secret, and even though I thought that one was really good, I actually loved this one more because I was much happier with this ending.
I loved how Madeline took Jane and Ziggy in and was a truly great friend.
Jane's has a sad story too but I'm so glad she had so many great new friends to back her up!
Celeste is living in a world of lies but it all works out in the end I don't care about the murder.
😊In the end it all comes down to great friends and taking care of one another.
We all know the book starts out with a murder by the blurb and anyone that has read the first of the book.
I didn't write a review as back then I usually updated that I read a book and gave it a rating.
Well exciting for me as a lover of this book!!I was looking through the new line-up of fall TV shows and came across a 2016 TV series entitled "Big Little Lies".
At first I thought it was a coincidence but then looked on IMDb and it said for the series summary:Things take a dark turn for a group of moms whose perfect lives begin to unravel.So far not a lot more information but it does say it's starring Nicole Kidman and Reese Witherspoon.
I love Reese and l am so excited to see her in this.
I can't NOT give this book 5 stars.
It's one of those special books that completely captured my attention—while I was reading it, I was lost in the characters' lives.
And that's one of the things that makes this book soooo good: the characters.
Moriarty is a master at crafting vivid characters from the first page.
I felt like with each introduction of a new character, I had a grasp on their personality pretty quickly.
On top of that was a well-crafted, engaging and suspenseful plot that kept you turning the pages.
--- A child is being accused of being a bullyAnd --we know domestic violence is part of one of the mom's marriage (is being kept a secret from even her close friends)We know a child was born by from violence --Yet---For those 400 pages --sooooooooooooooooo little is talked about these issues ---And we wait --And we wait --And we wait --We wait for the school "Trivia Night" (Interesting Name --don't ya think?) --which is chosen for the Schools big Parent function?
*4 Stars*Big Little Lies is an engaging story filled with murder and mystery, centering on the lives of three “school moms” and their problematic circumstances.I've never watched the show, but this book gave me a sort of sinister, Desperate Housewives vibe.This story is told in third-person narrative and methodically shifts focus between these three unstable women as the plot slowly creeps up to the night of the murder.The writing was fantastic: Intelligent, realistic, and held my interest pretty securely.
▪  Genre/Category: Adult Contemporary/Mystery▪  Characters: Well constructed▪  Plot: Murder mystery that follows the lives of three school-moms who've become friends.
someone hand me a bucket for all these emotions QUICKLY I DONT KNOW WHERE TO PUT THEM HOW ABOUT A TUBfull review to come
I liked this story, but it took a long time for me to get into.
Once I had finally got that straight, the story seemed to move a long a little faster, but not by much.
It was good, but not as great as I'd been expecting.This book tells the story of several mothers whose children attend the same elementary school.
One of the parents ends up dead and the story is largely told through flashbacks, as the other parents provide their statements.Mostly, this book made me think of that song, 'Harper Valley PTA'.
It’s orientation day into kindergarten when one boy is accused of choking a little girl.
Three wonderful friends (Madeline, Celeste and Jane) brought together on that orientation day by their children.
I was always on the look-out for more of these little gems as a tasty bonus, near the end of every chapter.There are two distinct sides to this book.
There are three sides to every person…the side we show to everyone else, the side we show to friends and loved ones, and the side we show only to ourselves.
I loved every minute of this book.
Like icing on a cake.I absolutely adored this book!
I thought, first off the bat, that the three main characters of Jane, Celeste, and Madeline sound a bit like one person.
Sure, Madeline curses a lot, but the inner emotions of each is not so different from the others.This hiccup aside, the rest of the inhabitants, their relationships with each other is presented with almost scientific relish.
Pacing does a lot for me, so I was thrilled when not only the denouement is presented with a bow tied to it, but the way we reached the end is breathtaking.
Take a bow Liane Moriarty.
The three women are at the heart of this wicked novel are: Madeline, Celeste and Jane.
Madeline sticks up for new friend Jane because she loves the attention, and because she sees Jane struggling and realizes Jane can’t fight Renata on her own.
Madeline loves fighting for a cause and helping Jane is a nice distraction.
Little does anyone know, their lives are far from perfect, though Celeste is one heck of an actress.Jane is a young single mother and she is new to Pirriwee.
All of the women in this story are highly emotional, sometimes crazy, yet completely believable.
I enjoyed this a lot more than I thought I would! Can't wait to watch the TV series!UPDATE: The TV series isn't as good as the book. The ending was disappointing compare to it!

If you had hoped for something more from the much-lauded Landline, look no further than Liane Moriarty. She writes well-plotted, engrossing, and incredibly funny stories with believable women that also happen to put marriage and friendship under a microscope. Every book I've read by this author has been terrific.
Liane Moriarty captured the internal dialogue perfectly, amazingly.
Yes many were a million or a zillion times exaggerated, but this is a piece fiction and fiction is fun!We all like reading about people that are similar (even semi similar) to us.
Albeit mainly in our heads..I've read many comments here that some of the dialogue in the book are inappropriate, but it is my firm opinion that the author is so skilled in her writing and knowledge of everyday 'mum' nuances that in doing so she has created the best story of friendship that you could find.
This is my first read of a Liane Moriarty book and I have to admit I found it engaging and entertaining.
Madeline is feeling bitter about her ex-husband and his new family, Celeste is beautiful, thin, and rich, seems to have everything including the envy of other women, and incomer Jane become friends on a orientation day at their childrens' kindergarten at Pirriwee Public School, Its a world of competitive mums, gossip, smothered parenting, the past and secrets.
Then there is murder and mystery at the school trivia night with the police interviewing parents.
A read that definitely captured my attention.
So I read the book version as quickly as possible, and what can I say?
While I think the miniseries is at times a bit darker in vibe than the book, they're both just so, so excellent.
As the stories of Big Little Lies unfold, the layers of the characters are unraveled.
I also thought the book built suspense quite well; the reminders of how much time remained until the trivia night were helpful, but the little statements from other parents on their opinions?
Tonally, this is one of the oddest books I've ever read.
This wasn't for me, I'm afraid. The false suspense drove me bananas; it just seemed like lazy storytelling. I found the characters to be surface level only, and some pretty serious subject matter to be treated with much less sensitivity than it deserved.
This is so greatly written. Amazing story. Read it!
I’d seen some good ratings for it and I liked the idea of a book set in Australia, somewhere I’ve visited (briefly) but have hardly touched in a literary sense.
It was losing me already and I’d hardly started.
Some mothers with young children starting school in a beach suburb of Sydney, lots of chatter – some of it quite funny – but still no idea where it was all headed.
All very strange.So here I’ll give you a tip: if you reach this point and feel like giving up – don’t!
One unique feature I loved was the snippets of police-parent interviews that took place right after the trivia night calamity; these appeared at the end or beginning of every chapter, starting with chapter 1.
The title refers to the seemingly little lies that people tell themselves, their friends and loved ones, their perceived enemies and the authorities that result in big, sometimes very big, consequences.
The story also illustrates that people really don’t always know their friends and loved ones as well as they might think.
I recommend everyone read this book for yourself and see what YOU think.
I’m glad I did, and I will definitely be reading more novels by Ms. Moriarty.
Let's sum up this book with two words:  "Oh, calamity!" What a pleasant surprise. When I picked this up I expected some sorts of a predictable, dull book about lies and family, etc. What I read though far exceeds those two. It's more of a family thriller. What does that mean? I just came up with it. It's about the horrors between families, the hardships. Not just the good stuff, leaving out all the bad. Mrs. Moriarty takes care to include everything in this book. From teenage nightmares to the u
When I picked this up I expected some sorts of a predictable, dull book about lies and family, etc.
Mrs. Moriarty takes care to include everything in this book.
From teenage nightmares to the undoubted horror of living next to your ex-husband.
But what if, I say, what if it's just all a big lie?Believe me when I say that you'll take immeasurable pleasure from reading this book.
Multi-dimensional characters, with lots of aspects to them.
The mystery surrounding the storyline is amazing and it makes you read more and more and before you know it, it's over.
Just read this.
