https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/898659.Sam_the_Sudden

This is distinctly average Wodehouse. There are some nice moments of comedy and a very large dog. Sadly the very large dog gets as big a role in the story and is a more interesting character than the leading lady. The Wodehouse trio of criminals helps give the novel some character and keeps it from being strictly a romantic comedy. A nice read after you've already read all the great Wodehouse books three or four times.
One of Wodehouse's own favorites, according to his forward, this book is good middle-of-the-road Wodehouse - or maybe a little better than that. In part, it is a celebration of the London suburbs ("Valley Fields" here) Wodehouse loved. Plenty of typical Wodehousian strained coincidences, and the hero gets the girl and the money in the end, of course.
Delightful!
In his 1975 Paris Review interview, Wodehouse named this as one of his own books that he was fondest of (the other was Quick Service). Sam the Sudden is no masterpiece, but it has a lot of charm, and paints an amusing portrait of life in south-east London in the 1920s.
Excellent and hilarious in true Wodehousian style.
Also mentioned from ‘Bill the Conqueror’ is Percy Pilbeam now the editor of Society Spice, one of Mammoth’s papers.Sam has fallen in love with Kay Derrick after been stranded in Canada with nothing but her photograph for company and has followed her to Wodehouse’s celebrated London suburb Valley Fields.
Kay resides in ‘San Rafael’ and Sam has rented the adjoining villa ‘Mon Repos’ so that he can be near her to win her heart.
Sheringham Adair manager of the Tilbury Detective Agency and his associates Dolly the Dip and Soap Molloy whom complicate Sam’s wooing of Kay by there attempts to recover the spoils of celebrated thief Finglass.
What's left to say after already giving thoughts on fifteen or so Wodehouse books.
It's a stand alone story about a young American taking a newspaper job in England and moving into a house that just so happens to be adjacent to that of the girl of his dreams.
Oh...and it also just so happens to be a house wherein, some years earlier, a notorious bank robber stashed $2 Million in loot, making it, currently, the target of a few members of the criminal element.Misunderstanding abound as laugh out loud hilarity ensues.Once again, this may actually be one of my favorites...but I find myself thinking that during nearly every one I read.
I needed something lightweight after The Radetzky March and Wodehouse always provides. While Bertie Wooster of the Jeeves series always narrowly escapes getting snared in marriage, the eponymous protagonist here is in a hurry to get the girl - basically a screwball comedy with a happy ending and a few classical allusions.
Enjoyable story set in Wodehouse's standard setting for London suburban life, Valley Fields. The story features the American con artists the Molloys, plus the even dodgier Chimp Twist, endeavouring to recover stolen bearer bonds from a Valley Fields villa. The story was pretty much replicated in 1961 with Ice in the Bedroom.
It is funny, oh yes, it is. It is a quintessential Wodehouse product. But some activities still continue to be molestation, whatever the trigger is considered to be. And there is always the subtle class difference. Ah well, times change, and it is still a funny Wodehouse, and thankfully, not a timeless one.
This was a fun, enjoyable, light read. I liked it better than the Jeeves book I read because each chapter in the Jeeves book had a problem and resolution; whereas, this one was a complete novel and so had a little more depth. I just love Wodehouse's wit and writing style.
PG himself says this is one of his own favorite novels.http://www.theparisreview.org/intervi...
Just the right amount of turns and humour: didn't make me cry suffering a laughing fit, like some of his other novels do, still it's one of the best of PGW.
Sam Shotter gets the girl. P.G. basically writes the same set of stories over and over, but he does it so incredibly well, I never get tired.
Another Wodehouse classic. Intertwining the lives of the British upper, middle and lower classes in a spectacular fashion! He never fails to amuse. What Ho!
Hilariously funny; I hadn't laughed so much in ages :-D
P G Wodehouse never fails me and he always keeps-up his promise.The moments enjoyed with the book are the moments for ever.A feeling like 'Napoleon outlook and Shakespearean knowledge'...!!!
Whilst Jeeves and Wooster are great, I think there are less well-known gems amongst the canon and this is one of them.Witty, clever and some great dialogue. A great, escapist pick-me-up.
My very first P.G.Wodehouse! This book got me addicted to P.G.W! Very witty!
Quick read. Like the Grisham of his time but that time seems much more talented than now. Good twists and turns but most of all, just a fun and funny read.
This is a truly satisfying stand alone Wodehouse novel. I would say it is slightly less than one of the great ones. I highly recommend it.
Very funny and very appealing hero, like Uneasy Money. Sent by American uncle to UK to work for newspaper. He lives in the suburbs and there is a mystery about the house he is living in.
Wodehouse shines.
An early Wodehouse romance featuring an ugly dog, soliciting cops,thieves and lots of hilarious dialogue.
Not my favorite Wodehouse. Some funny moments, but the characters were a bit weak.
Classic Wodehouse -- a clever plot, fun characters, and impeccable writing. The repartee between Sam and Kay is particularly amusing. A really fun one.
A jolly time captured in print! Wodehouse is a genius and had me laughing at every page.
An early Wodehouse and far from being one of his best. Worth reading even so for the simple joy of Wodehouse's writing.
Chimp Twist makes another appearance!
