https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30236962-the-historian
Once, after giving a historian a book to start him on his vampire studies, Dracula disguises himself as “a stranger” and buys that historian a drink called, “whimsically, amnesia.” Bet you can’t guess what that does - all that research down the tubes!
Not to be deterred by Dracula’s or the Evil Librarian’s threats, the historians continue to stalk their prey until the reader would pity Dracula (if he weren’t annoying), because he is ultimately only trying to build a book collection and a gang of faithful research assistants.
In painful detail, Paul, the central historian/vampire slayer, as he tells his daughter the story of his search for Dracula, also tells of falling in love with her “mannish” mother, Helen.
But as you read it, the book just gets more and more ridiculous.
One here or there would be fine, even interesting, but it's as if the author decided 'here's how the plot should go', and couldn't be bothered to come up with realistic reasons for characters to do things and just wanted to move them from one point to another.
Not only are these letters insanely long, but they are insanely detailed as well, creating yet another reason why the book and the characters are completely unbelievable.
If that's how the author wanted to write this, why did she do the letter thing at all?
When you are older, as you begin to read critically, you will learn to appreciate a good book, and you will be able to identify literary bullshit when you see it.That's all this book is.
Did you seriously think this book was realistic in any way, when you cannot distinguish between the narrative of an old man, an older man, and that of a girl as she grows from her early teens?Did you ever for a moment think upon the complete absurdity of the letters and the storytelling, particularly when said letters and spoken stories were told in excruciating minutiae.
These stand-ins for the vampire are pleasantly unsettling without being accompanied by shrieking violins.What propels each of the main characters, the young girl (whose name we never discover), her father Paul, and his mentor, Rossi, is the discovery of a mysterious old book among their own, a book with one printed page, that of a dragon with a banner reading “Drakulya” while the rest of the pages are blank.
Why and how these volumes keep turning up is one of the novel's mysteries an it's one of Kostova's rather clever conclusions in her own well-thought out realization of the character of Dracula.
This is actually the second time I've read this book.
I really love history and the whole Dracula lore.
I think I read it in about four days, I just couldn't put it down.
If you are wanting to read it just because it has to do with Dracula, I would pick a much smaller book.
However, I just love history and research (duh, I work in a library) so it was right up my alley.
Basically, people who didn't enjoy it were out for a Dracula story and thought the history was "a drag".
I'm really into history so I thought it was pretty damn good.
Whoever said that about Kostova's The Historian, I salute you.I kept telling my friends I was reading "a book about hunting for Dracula through libraries across Europe," and that it was about as exciting as it sounds.
Clearly Kostova is very influenced by Gothic and Victorian writers like Stoker, so maybe this book would have a grand payoff of an ending to merit the praise and best-sellerness.Instead, Dracula is a librarian.
I wish I'd read an Actual Gothic novel - maybe even by Bram Stoker - instead of wasting way too long on this frustrating book.
I was horrified to read:xdragonlady's review:"My main problem with the book being that the author told the tale from so many different points of view, but that they were each told in first person without giving the reader any notice as to who was telling the tale.
Suddenly, a wayward link caught my eye and I clicked.Silver's review:"I think I read some review here on GoodReads that called this a book to be conquered.
Step into the pages and begin an eerie, haunted, hypnotic adventure thoroughly saturated in ancient history and wondrous, exotic, old European churches, monasteries and libraries that are positively brimming with ancient parchment and long, forgotten maps and books.
A full speed ahead rich, historical thriller with enough gothic images, cultural folklore, ancient crypts and creaking stairs that it is sure to raise the hair on the back of your neck and no doubt a compulsive, insatiable interest in this age old tale.
It had to have gone something like this: Well, most people think Dracula isn’t real, Kostova must have explained.
Like Bram Stoker’s Dracula, this is an epistolary novel, with large chunks of it coming in the form of “letters” written by various characters.
The central thread is set in the 1970s and is narrated by the unnamed daughter of a historian-turned-diplomat named Paul.
The Paul letters, on the other hand, are given only quotation marks.
Am I really supposed to believe that a character would write a letter hundreds of pages long?
Ms. Kostova had me at mysterious book and Dracula.Soon Paul is searching a library in Istanbul when he finds a map that suggests that Vlad's grave is not where conventional historical wisdom says it is, but he can't tell from the map where it might actually be.
He doesn't drop it and he takes us on an atmospheric and historical jaunt all over Europe.Of course Dracula being Dracula he and his undead minions will stop at nothing to protect their secrets, including the location of Vlad the Impaler's grave.For me this book reads like a travelogue, a paean to history, and a love story, with the horror of unspeakable evil and the race to save loved ones the glue that binds it all together.
I initially read the dust jacket on one of my many excursions to the book store and was very excited.
It had been a long time since I read a really good scary story with vampires.
Oh, how angry I got when the story finally started getting good, Ms. Kostova would interject a 20-30 page dissertation on the history of the church in the times of Vlad the Impaler!
In fact, a well-researched and planned book only brings credibility to your story.
However, The Historian proved to be nothing more than an over-zealous researcher's attempt to create a story from a subject that she is obviously passionate about.
What a wonderfully well researched book for historical fictions fans. Elizabeth Kostova sure knows storytelling and did a terrific job interweaving the search for Dracula (The Impaler) and Eastern European history. The author takes you through ancient castles, churches, and libraries looking through documents for clues to the whereabouts of the historical Dracula.The book is entrancing, but a bit slow at times when progressing through over 22 CD's. My biggest complaint is I didn't care for the quickly wrapped-up ending. Otherwise, I enjoyed the mix of historical fiction and light horror.4 out of 5 stars.
The Historian:Kostova sets her book partly in the 70s, partly in history, and she tries to write in a flowery language, like the great masters of novel from the 19th century- but to me, she really just comes off sounding pretentious, overwrought and juvenile.
Then, she writes about Vlad, Dracula, attempting to add new lore to the story, but never really gives us any surprises.
To comment specifically, I'd probably have to reread, or at least review, the book, which I'm not willing to do when there are still so many thousands of brilliantly written stories out there that I haven't discovered yet.
What I really enjoyed about this book was the strong, vivid descriptions of the gothic architecture and all these sights around the world. I also enjoyed the folklore and mystery surrounding Vlad III of Wallachia which subsequently gave rise to the Dracula story. However, all that did was try to make up for a very thin and shallow plot that didn't really interest me as much. I'd recommend it more for updating your TripAdvisor as opposed to reading it for the fiction.
Kostova has penned here the perfect armchair traveling book––also known as travelogue––taking us from the States to England, the Netherlands, Greece, France, Turkey, Romania, Hungary, etc., all that using different time frames and POVs and with the ease of a master storyteller who knows exactly when it is time to move the plot forward and when to take it slow and share with us readers bits and pieces of all the research she did to write her book.
Well, almost perfect...Anyway, if you're into big fat Gothic books and you fancy yourself an armchair traveler, then don’t hesitate to pick this one up.
I was especially interested in the subject matter, because it was about Vlad Ţepeş, the Wallachian (Romanian) prince, who Bram Stoker popularized as Dracula.
There are three different stories weaved together into one about three people who are trying to find Dracula: The narrator, who is telling her story from her viewpoint as a 16 year old girl in 1972, her father, whose story is told through letters to his daughter as well as conversations about his experiences in 1954 and finally, Professor Rossi, who was the father's advisor in college.
So Vlad Tepes, Prince, Impaler and legendary ruler of Wallachia, not to mention possible embodiment of Bram Stoker's villainous Count Dracula is a living breathing actual person who has taken to sending out teasers in the form of esoteric historic folios in order to lure unto himself a librarian, historian or archivist for nefarious purposes related to archiving.
I did enjoy this, all digression and prevarication aside and Elizabeth Kostova can write and is clearly an excellent historian in her own right, which is what pushed me on to the end without feeling the need to drive a stake through my own heart.
Well written, interesting perspective on Vlad the Impaler. Good research into the history of that part of the world.
The HistorianBy Elizabeth KostovaKostova received two million dollars for this debut novel, an almost unheard of sum for an unknown writer, but I’m sure it went a long way in reimbursing her expenses for the research that would have been required to write The Historian.
His steps are dogged by bureaucrats, as well as the undead, making this a long and complicated search not only for Rossi but for Dracula as well.
I’m a history buff so the background information and the search for Dracula is something I find interesting.
And in fact, because of the "CCLaP 100" series of "classics" essays I've been doing here this year, I've ended up reading quite a bit of Victorian literature, so can tell you exactly what it is about Kostova's novel that reminds me so much of the style...--Extremely overwritten, flowery prose, one that sometimes literally uses entire chapters to serve only as elaborate introductions to the next chapters.
Elizabeth Kostova, while no doubt being a very well off person who went to the best schools for writing, has nevertheless spent a long time researching and writing The Historian with the resulting book being little about vampires and undead and more about books and history and researching and following the trail; its an academic adventure novel.Our narrator is a young girl in her teens traveling through Europe, following the letters of her father from his travels in the 1950s, who is following the letters of his mentor from his travels in the 1930s.
“Not everyone who reaches back into history can survive it.” I hope I will have time to write more about this book later, but one thing I need to mention is: what you hear about is true.
The denouement is ridiculous and I honestly don't understand why it had to be this why, since it's more than apparent that Kostova's imagination is, to say the least, extraordinarily vivid.
Dracula's motive is implausible and unconvincing, but I feel that it holds a symbolic meaning in Kostova's conception of the novel, and therefore, even though plot-wise it's nothing short of embarrassing, I can turn a blind eye on it.
I really wanted to like this book but God is it boring as hell.
I hate not finishing a book but I just can't waste one more minute reading something akin to watching paint dry.
This felt like an exercise in cold war geography and a self-indulgent author letting us know how smart she is and how much research she'd done.
Who cares?!
The premise for this book was really intriguing but the story gets lost in page after page of unrelenting descriptions and cryptic dialogue.
It’s so boring I could hardly stay awake while reading it.

a modern take on the Dracula story.
This reminded me of The Da Vinci Code in some ways.
The story was a pageturner with lots of atmosphere and exotic settings, danger and romance mixed with the secrets of history.
But at the end, I found myself thinking, "What a minute.
That plot made no sense." Dracula's motivation is sketchy at best, and the choices the characters make just don't ring true, in my opinion.
That's all I can say without giving away the plot.
Read it and see what you think.
My advice: enjoy it, and don't think about the inconsistencies once you're done.
Most boring first 15 pages of any book I've ever read.For revenge, I will attempt to write the shortest review of The Historian :D
Some are being told by the "daughter" charachter.So, the story is about vampires/Drakula and how a professor- Rossi - researched to discover more about an empty book with a dragon picture in it.
The daughter finds papers and letters on her fathers bookshelf, and gets him to start telling his story.There is a cast of charachters in the book that finally converge in the last chapter or two - about 300 pages too late if you ask me, to help the final story unfold.
I don't mind LONG books either - some of my favorites run in the 800 page realm.
*****5 stars.***** Como he dicho anteriormente, cuando uno se enamora de la pluma de un autor difícilmente habrá poco que pueda gustar.   Review in my account bookstagram     En este caso Kostova me atrajo con Tierra de sombras,  RESEÑA AQUÍ , quedé tan encantada con la autora que empecé a investigar más de sus libros y descubrí La historiadora y después de leerlo quedé totalmente enamorada. No puedo ser imparcial con un libro de 700 páginas que me haya tenido enganchada durante días y noches y
Años después la hija de Paul descubre por casualidad unas cartas dentro de un libro, le pregunta a su padre sobre ello y este le cuenta sobre la desaparición del director de su tesis, el profesor Rossi, la búsqueda de Paul visitando bibliotecas en Estambul, monasterios en Rumania y aldeas en Bulgaria tratando de encontrar el rastro de su mentor.
Si algo he de decir sobre esta historia es que me encantó, la recreación de los monumentos y bibliotecas a través de la narración fue maravillo, tanto asi que me senti del libro viviéndolo todo.
The Historian is a standalone historical fiction novel written by Elizabeth Kostova.
Because of Ms. Kostova's attention to historical accuracy, specifically regarding the historical figure of Vlad the Impaler rather than the mythical (and paranormal) Dracula the Vampire.
In an online interview, Ms. Kostova stated, “I took a real historical mystery, the question of where Vlad the Impaler is buried–or what became of his remains–and spun out a fictional speculation from there.
The other historical events in the book are real ones, carefully researched, although the twentieth-century characters are fictional.”Personally, I loved how layered this book is.
Although the first half is pleasant enough as a travelogue, especially the Eastern European scenery and impressions of Budapest that we are treated to, it soon began to feel tedious and I was pretty bored by the time the book began to pick up again.The last third is the best part of the book, so do try and push through until you get there.The biggest aspect I found to complain about, is that I'd expected a bit more solid history from it, taking in account the title and the premise of the book.I found the few scraps and tidbits the author threw at us about Count Dracul/ Vlad Tepes rather unsatisfying.
