https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22844773-detective-comics-27-special-edition
This is a free single issue comic book to celebrate the 75th Anniversary of the first publication of the character of Batman on the original Detective Comics #27, in 1939.I got it thanks to the people running the local comic book store that I usually visit.The free comic book includes a reprinting of the very original story, The Case of the Chemical Syndicate, also it includes a re-imagination of that story with modern art and storytelling style, and it closes with a totally original story set in the future of the character.
Fun free comic that DC threw together for Batman’s 75th anniversary. It reprints the first Batman story from Detective Comics, and then does a modern re-telling of the same tale. It also includes a short bit from Scott Syder that’s a great look at what the future of Batman could be. It’s worth a look for Bat-fans.
Okay?I mean, you love it when they scream?
I'm a tad bit worried that this "hero" thing you've got going is some sort of sexual outlet for you.Obviously you're no stranger to the idea that you might be insane.
You describe yourself as insane.And I know your parents were murdered and it was horrible.
I know.
Okay?
I'm only saying this because I worry about you and care about you and want you to find some peace and happiness.
Perhaps the love of a good woman?
Detective Comics #27 takes a look back at the beginning of Batmanand it also reimagines his comic debut.I liked this, it's a nice free comic that delves into what makes Batman who he is. There is no earth shattering information here, but it's better than most free comics by quite a bit.
But before I review these two amazing issues, let's first talk about the content of the free giveaway, which is New 52's re-imagining of Detective Comics #27.Surprisingly enough, the only new thing that was included in it for me was the original 1939 story The Case of the Chemical Syndicate where actual pages from said old comic were used and printed in glossier paper.
It's incredible what a legacy that name carries - how much it's progressed, how long it's been.I'm not nearly old enough to have read the early Batman comics.
It made me feel like I was taking part in the nostalgia.There are three comics in this edition: the original Detective Comics #27 ("The Case of the Chemical Syndicate") from 1939, a modern take on #27, and a new comic simply entitled "Twenty Seven." I love it.The original has an old fashioned appeal to it.
That said, this is my first experience of the original Batman, so I can hardly cast a considerate judgement on his character.The modern take was something I felt more connected to.
Hah! The freebie is better than some of the comics I've been paying full price for! LOVE the updated storyline, though the journal entries I could have totally done without. Same old mumbojumbo you always see.
DC Comics wanted to build on the success of Superman but without making a doppelgänger so they turned to the artist Bob Kane who turned to writer Bill Finger and together they designed Batman based on the Mexican vigilante Zorro, the movie The Bat Whispers and The Living Shadow.
Bruce Wayne hears about this while visiting Commissioner Gordon and as Gordon goes to investigate so goes Batman...I am not going to spoil (the comic is free digitally so go download it), but it is a good story.
A fun little collection containing Batman's original appearance from 1939 (which took me back to the Tintin comics from the same era which I read as a child) and a more introspective 21st-century re-imagining of the same story, as well as a Batman Beyond-style futuristic "eternal recurrence" story.
Such fun getting to ready the very first appearance of the bat-man. Also appreciate given the passing of Adam West.
My 9-year old is looking forward to playing this videogame.(3) it was FREEAnd, you know, for a Batman Day celebration (the dude's 75 years old - come on!), they (DC Comics) had Bill Finger & Bob Kane's original story re-done & updated by Brad Meltzer & Bryan Hitch.
As an artist who needs quite some time to produce mind-blowing visuals like in The Authority Vol. 1 and The Ultimates & The Ultimates 2 - even his JLA stuff with Mark Waid - I guess this time around he did not have enough time to polish his work as much, and since this Batman Day is (and should be) a BIG DEAL, DC Comics should've either (a) given Hitch more time beforehand, or (b) gotten someone else entirely.Finally, there's a story called "Twenty-Seven" by Scott Snyder, which left me non-plussed.
Cool collection of 3 short Batman stories all with completely different art. The first one with it's retro art is a retelling of the very first Batman (or Bat-Man)Story, The Case of the Chemical Syndicate (written by Brad Meltzer) and alone makes this a great collectable edition. The story is then retold with modern art and dialogue.The short story Twenty-Seven written by Scott Snyder then pulls us into the far future. Batman has a huge legacy over the past 75 years and it was great to see so many people interested and celebrating Batman Day today.
A Barnes & Noble freebie. Lucky me, I happened to go on "Batman Day."Interesting to see how it all began, along with the 21st century take on the story.
Earlier today, I started Snyder's Metal and thought I'd finally found my Batman story, but after reading this issue (which includes a Snyder short story), I feel like maybe I've found the Batman writer for me.
Very recommended for new /old batman fans
Fun read
I like the old and new Batman comics because I like to compare how it changes over time.
Old and newTwo stories that are actually one story with a chaser. Kind of a past, present and future thing. A quick read.
Quite the Adventure It's interesting to see the different styles, looks, and thoughts on the dark knight that we all love. Definitely interesting.
Perfecto homenaje al mejor superhéroe de la historia. Me ha encantado, sobretodo esa reelaboración del nº 27 de DC. Sublime.
i find this book very interesting as there are 5 murders and 5 suspects but there is quite a shock at the end of the book as one of the detectives, known as commissioner Gordon actually becomes one of the suspects.
in this book nobody knows that at the start Bruce Wayne is actually batman.
Commissioner Gordon actually was talking Bruce about this batman and Bruce Wayne was acting very quite suspicious.
i found this comic very interesting and i recommend that all of you should read it as it does having all the shooting and killing which is why i really enjoyed reading this book.
The first story in this collection is a reprint of Batman's first appearance in "The Case of the Chemical Syndicate," which appeared in the original Detective Comics #27.
Though the name of the criminal in the original story who fell into a vat of acid after being punched by Batman was named Alfred Stryker, his expy in the modern version is unnamed.
He wears a purple outfit reminiscent of The Joker's outfit, and the fact that he falls into a vat of acid at A.C.E. Chemicals suggests that this is a possible origin story for The Joker.
The Bat-Man Imagined As BatmanIts great fun to read an original story and then read its contemporary version.
Neither the original nor the contemporary version are present to each as contrasts of the other.
The original version demonstrates its strengths as does the contemporary displays its own.
"Why," I ask myself, "is a reinvention of Batman necessary?" Is this a logical evolutionary stage of the natural development of the Batman myth?
As long as the creators in their continuance of the myth produce engaging stories with eye-pop (a copyrighted term) graphic artwork then basic changes to the nature of Batman will be tolerated.
I skimmed through it at the time, but then it got shelved with all of my other graphics/comics and I never actually read it.This is a fun addition to any Batman fan's collection.
The first comic is the first Bat-Man story and it is a bit cheesy, which was to be expected.
The art is acceptable but nothing great and the "I do it because...." inter monologue of Batman gets tiresome.I really liked the 3 comic which is no surprise since I am quickly becoming a Snyder fan nowadays.
The art is a bit sketchy but the plot was well worth a read.
Una curiositat, pura celebració de l'aniversari. Potser el millor és veure la vinyeta original i la mateixa història remaquejada. Per un moment, pensava que tots els autors farien una adaptació d'aquesta primera aparició de Batman, però no.N'hi ha que tiren més per l'estil Qué bello es vivir, n'hi ha que aposten per les dimensions paral·leles, n''hi ha que expliquen una historieta més de Batman i prou. Gairebé totes d'altíssima qualitat. En fi, que mola molt. Per molts anys, caped crusader.
This is a Special Edition comic to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Batman.I do not remember where I got it. I randomly found it today when putting away some other comic books. But I'm glad I did. What a cool issue to have.In this issue, there is a reprint of the original Batman appearance from Detective Comics #27. There are also 2 other "origin" stories for Batman that based on the original.
Ssh begrudge him and then you guys havegjowdyfiyqecgoudydyeushxvchcujdjddbbdbdbfbdjdjI have the right thing is to be there and my mom is coming over the right of course not talking read it would have any plans you guys want a goodread the right to no end of course not sure what are you guys want to get the
A Good Collection Of Batman Graphic NovelsA wonderful collection of Batmans first appearance and one of his incredible first adventures. To celebrate Batmans 75th anniversary this collection is a must if you haven't already read them.
Not really a book Thought I hit the jackpot finding this free comic book on Amazon. Turns out there are no complete stories here. More like an advertisement for old and new Batman stories. It is all teasers .
It's Batman!!I loved this comic. I need the next one. Will he stay? What happens to them when threading want to stay? So interesting, same story but with a new twist. Who doesn't like Batman. I loved the little snip of superman in a panel. No one beats batman.
