https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39504.The_Girl_with_the_Long_Green_Heart
All he needs is thirty grand or so, and at the rate he's going, it should only take him about thirty years to save that much.But then along comes an old pal named Doug Rance who has a plan to work a sure-fire long con on a real estate investor named Wallace Gunderman.
Perhaps he should buy even more!Rance wants his old pal Johnny to be the "roper" who will lure Gunderman into the deal.
He insists that it's a can't-miss proposition and the best part is that it will net Johnny the thirty grand he needs to buy his restaurant.
His dream is to go straight and buy a bar/inn out in the sticks, but he needs capital to make that happen and working at a bowling alley ain't cuttin' it.
With a strong plot, decently rounded characters and a fun crime story to boot, I enjoyed the heck out of this.
You can see the young version of him putting it all together (I wanted to say "putting the building blocks together" but I rose above!) and developing the talents he would need to create his excellent Matthew Scudder series.
A very strong 3.5 stars!
Even after taking the fall, after doing a bit in the big house (San Quentin aka Q, to be specific), it's hard for a born  confidence man  to keep it on the straight and narrow. That's not to say that our man,  Johnny Hayden  isn't trying. But, giving up the grift is never easy.The ingredients are nothing new—they never really are. Johnny, working the night shift at a bowling alley, pinching pennies like your average rube, is approached by a friend from the past pitching Johnny the classic plea t
confidence man
That's not to say that our man, 
Johnny, working the night shift at a bowling alley, pinching pennies like your average rube, is approached by a friend from the past pitching Johnny the classic plea to help him out with 
The foundation work's been laid, and the mark (flush with vanity, greed and overconfidence in himself) is perfect for the picking.
The stages of the con are still the same, but each job is different nonetheless, and 
The reader is like the shill, playing the bit part, watching the evolution with a mix of anticipation and dread, and loving every moment.
Will the scheme go off without a hitch or will their accomplice’s inexperience lead to their downfall?Hard Case Crime has become my go to when I want to relax with a swift read between larger, more demanding novels.
Charles Ardai sure knows what he’s doing when he puts that stamp of approval on a crime novel.Most of the novel takes place in the Northeast United States as well as Toronto and the scheme itself involves purchasing land in the Canadian Midwest province of Alberta.
When it comes to the plot, it’s hard to believe Block hasn't set up one of these cons himself, everything seems so flawless.
Pulpy Tagline!:  "From the top of her beautiful, brilliant head, to the pit of her merciless soul, she was filled with larceny."  (Gold Medal edition)Everyone likes reading about con artists. Stories about people using their brains and wits as weapons to fool someone and get away with it are pretty hard to resist. In this early novel by master Lawrence Block, John Hayden is a skilled confidence man who has just gotten out of San Quentin and has decided to put it all behind him and hang up his gr
In this early novel by master Lawrence Block, John Hayden is a skilled confidence man who has just gotten out of San Quentin and has decided to put it all behind him and hang up his grifter's cap.
A long con so sweet that even as his conscience tells him he should live a quiet life managing a bowling alley, the gratification of pulling it off is just something he can't resist.Block pays a great attention to details of the inner-workings of such an elaborate hustle; it was such a pleasure to read.
The con is super complex but I was never confused and that's a testament to Block's control of his material.
It’s a Lawrence Block so expect the unexpected if you can imagine what that might be.
i.e. What's up is down and what's down is up.Johnny, the primary protagonist who was recently released from prison and Doug, the secondary, are both grifters.
Doug sells Johnny the flawless, can't go wrong grift.
Johnny has be flying straight but this last caper will allow him enough money to fulfill his dream of buying a roadhouse, revamping it and making money legally without looking over his shoulder.
Then out of nowhere almost at the end, Block does a complete unexpected U-turn.
It's Lawrence Block.
Mostly read waiting for the plane to leave London for BudapestA really well written con-noir that manages to conjure vivid images in your mind. You expect things to go wrong and when they do Block takes you on a fast paced journey with Johnny Hayden in the aftermath.
Well let's not mess about here, I LOVED is book! Block is a class act and is, to this day, turning out brilliant stories time after time. This book was first published in '65 and it still feels fresh today. A brilliantly structured grifters tale. I cared about the characters and didn't see the twists coming. What could be better? I'm going to work my way through more of the author's extensive back catalogue - and there's a lot to choose from.
I loved it. Block is (or at least was in the 60s, I haven't read any of his recent work) such a really good writer for this sort of pulpy pulp. This one felt like a lighter Jim Thompson.
A pretty predictable crime novel about a real estate con game. I saw the twist coming from the beginning of the story. It went on way too long, and would have made a better short story.
The last 1/3rd of the book is very good, making up for the mostly lackluster first 2/3rds.CHARACTERS=3: The titular Girl is memorable (she is smarter than everyone) but upon closing the book I couldn't think of a single name I'd read.
This cover is probably a new one, so I gotta praise Robert McGinnis for his artwork: it's good enough to sell a book, certainly."Killing Castro" - 1961 - 2.4"Grifter's Game" - 1961 - 3.2"The Girl with the Long Green Heart" - 2.4Lawrence Block average rating - 2.66
The Girl with the Long Green Heart by Lawrence Block, #014 in the Hard Case Crime collection.
With less than a year of freedom behind him he’s doing a pretty good job of it, living a simple life in a small town, working at a bowling alley, saving what little money he can to put towards his dream of buying a roadhouse and going into business for himself.
Nothing...except, perhaps, finding a way to turn the deal around and make an obscene profit off that same land.Evelyn “Evvie” Stone is the woman on the inside.
”ESSENTIAL READING FOR NOIR LOVERS AND THOSE STUDYING THE CRAFT…” – Bristol Noir / John BowieI devoured this Hard Case Crime gem whilst traveling between cities for my day job; Gonzo-style, I sat in service stations, greasy spoons, cafes, street-lit car parks as the real life characters filled my settings – these added to the pictures the book painted so well in my head:Lawrence Block throws you straight in with easily absorbed dialogue…pushing rather than pulling you along with the grift – like their target – I was incapable of avoiding the sting…the story and its destination; loving it every step of the way…Sharp dialogue is matched with a savvy, acute analysis; weighing up an ever evolving prognosis of the situations and the psychologies driving the characters.
'The Girl with the Long Green Heart' is an unusual member in the Hard Case Crime Series: the plot doesn't start as a hard felony but a white-collar crime, involving a lot of fraud and deception.
This emphasis doesn't make it a bad book, but slows down the narrative flow in the first two thirds of the novel.
But as the book has merely 250 pages, I would recommend it to fans of HCC or Lawrence Block, despite it's minor flaws.
Block is a master of the genre and his style of writing is very enjoyable.
I have read the series with Matthew Scudder, a private eye; Bernie Rhodenbarr, a thief; and John Paul Keller, a hit man.
Block has won numerous literary awards, and I have enjoyed all his books except the Bernie Rhodenbarr series, which is highly formulaic.
This book tells a caper story in which two con artists plot a phoney real estate deal.
Block wrote this book back in 1965, and even he comments that he has grown as an author since he wrote this.
That said, I like caper stories (think "The Sting") and enjoyed the book.
This was an audio book by a good reader, very dated with the main character smoking a lot, able to take a gun aboard an plane, travel on Mohawk Airlines under another name, having to handle business via phone -- not cell -- and getting a decent hotel room (with room service!) for $20 a night.
And pay toilets -- you never see those these days.The usual good dialogue and moving steadily forward with the dialog -- this one about a big swindle complete with double dealings and double crosses.
Moves right along.
A nice break from THE SWAN THIEVES which is getting very long.
Very straightforward pulp noir, complete with all the iconography; ex-con trying to go straight, lowdown bar joints, the temptation of one last job, the dodgy partner, the sleazy mark, the femme fatale, and the grift. And the dark heart. Block's writing is lean and graceful, there's no flab whatsoever on this muscle as it punches you in the guts.
I would have to say that this story is all about hammers. All kind of hammers. Through out the read you are waiting for them to drop, for you KNOW they MUST be there. But for you to see which hammer drops first on which gun, you must read the book.Of course an equal argument is that the book is about the other shoe. I'll leave it up to you to decide..
You cannot talk about this book very long without giving away the secret. It's good for moody atmosphere and terse language. I mostly saw the end coming, and I'm not particularly clever, but there was still a surprise there also. I wanted to like the protagonist, but mostly I felt sorry for him that he is such a sap.
This one and "Grifter's Game" are my favorite Block books so far. This one was a lot like "The Sting" or "Matchstick Men" about a long con and cons within cons and so forth. It's fun if you like that sort of thing, which I do.
Some Block stories come in series, like the “Keller” novels about a lonely, likable hit man, and the “Matthew Scudder” books about an ex-alcoholic PI in the Big City (e.g., Time to Murder and Create, etc.).
And about all dreams and all girls.
And no girls are as perfect as the heart would have them.” VERDICT Dudes will be nodding along with the road-tested wisdom that John Hayden exudes.Find reviews of books for men at Books for Dudes, Books for Dudes, the online reader's advisory column for men from Library Journal.
The opening chapter introduces the reader to the book’s principal character (John Hayden) and, one assumes, the book’s first victim (Wallace Gunderman).
The book’s writing (of course) is world class.
Questions begin to arise for the alert fan, ranging from, ’Will he get the girl?’ to ’Is the girl in on the act with Rance?’ and ’Is Hayden actually the book’s major victim?' The latter may well appeal only to paranoid fans of Mr Block, as there is a sense of remorse, or melancholy, to the writing which seems to underpin the plot.
If you are in a bit of a reading rut, the stories you pick are too outlandish or you can't distinguish the novel you are reading now from the one you just put down I'll let you in on the fix.
Go and pick out a Lawrence Block novel.
I promise you won't go wrong.Block writes believable noirish down on luck / never do well characters / protaganists that are interesting and pieces them together in believable plot lines, the kind of stories you might come across if you tended bar back in the day.
Lawrence Block has a writing style that draws you in, the words flowing effortlessly along so that before you know it you're half way through.I found it to be a lot of fun on two different levels, the first being the general confidence man/grifter atmosphere and the narrator's behind the veil description of that world.
On a second level the book is a great unintentional period piece which only accentuates its effectiveness when viewed in the time of its setting.
Imagine the world of Mad Men set in a small town with Don Draper being an ex-con grifter trying to go legit and you'll have somewhat of an idea of the novel's flavor.
This is my favorite sort of crime novel- one seen from the criminal's perspective.
Here though, the criminal is very likable and the victim is not particularly sympathetic.
I found myself really wanting the shady deal to work out for everyone.
I was a little surprised by the twist that comes in near the end, but not all that surprised.
Also, the non-specific conversation that the narrator has before the deal goes down.
It sets up a perfect hazy circumstance for what comes after.I had to look up a couple of the references in this book, namely Herbert Philbrick and William Zeckendorf.
This book was an alchemy of perfect crime fiction.
Johnny Hayden, a retired grifter who did a stint in San Quentin, decides to go for one more score: The Long Con. He falls in with his partner Doug Rance and together, with a woman working the mark already, they go to work.
In short, they plot a Land Owning con wherein the mark is lured into believing if he invests some money, he'll get a big payout.
Sounds simple, but the plot draws you in.
This is a good book to learn the basics of writing crime fiction.
This is my kind of book! Basically, everyone is a "bad guy" so I get to root for, or against, them all! The con, or grift, is pretty tricky and the dame is pretty hot! And when the shoe drops on the whole thing, well, it's a heck of a twist! I loved the pace of the book and until the end, I felt that the author had given me just enough buy in to really get me! Good, solid ending too! Reminds me not to buy any moose pastures in Canada anytime soon!
If you're into stories about down-on-their-luck grifters, vengeful dames, and elaborate con games, you owe it to yourself to read THE GIRL WITH THE LONG GREEN HEART. (And pretty much the entire Hard Case catalog, for that matter.) It's almost quaint in regard to how simple and straight-forward the story is, but the con is clever, the characters are interesting, the hardboiled prose is thoroughly engaging, and the ending isn't what you'd normally expect from this sort of thing.
I was recently gifted a box of books, which is where I came across this one. The copyright on this book is 1965 and it was still a good book.The story follows a couple grifters or con men as they set up a long con. It of course goes wrong at the very end but they come out alright. It was well written, not hard at all to read and realyy quite interesting.
A great con-game/noir novel. Lawrence Block's style doesn't feel dated at all, pretty amazing considering the book is almost at it's 50 year anniversary. Block focuses on the people, not the mechanics of the con; which helps on it's timeless quality. People never change. If you're a fan of heist/crime novels then I think you'll love The Girl With The Long Green Heart.
