https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9751.Quotations_from_Chairman_Mao_Tse_Tung
This evil little book is one of the most important documents of the 20th Century. It is absolutely essential to understanding the Cultural Revolution. When as a teenager I read it in 1970 I thought it was hilarious. Now almost fifty years the true story has come out and this book no longer seems funny. Its importance however has greatly increased.
[the interesting words are in the comments]Who hasn't heard of Chairman Mao's little red book?But who's actually read it?It's like Che Guevara - a political icon that's been absorbed into pop-culture.This is firmly on my 'read one day and stop being an ignorant ass' list.Either that, or I'm just writing some on-topic drivel so my review won't be deleted by the Goodreads Censor. A little of column A, a little of column B...*makes a see-saw motion with his hands*
While I read this in 9th grade, while I was still an aspiring Marxist-Leninist, I think that 2 years later I can safely discard it. The content consists solely of Mao quoting himself. This book serves no purpose, other than for Bob Avakian and his followers in the Revolutionary Communist Party, who in all probability masturbate to it on a daily basis.
I hadn't played for a couple of years, so I asked for a three stone handicap and after many vicissitudes finally managed to win the game.
The German guy was a good sport about it, considering that my position had been close to lost at one stage, and we spent a while chatting about Go-related trivia after the game.
What I hadn't heard was that he apparently used Go metaphors and comparisons quite frequently.
This seemed almost too good to be true, and I was amazed I'd never heard the story before...
Chairman Mao was many things to many people, but to me he'll always be boring.
To summarize it in one word: CRAP.Only a person with a minutiae of a brain could possibly appreciate this propagandic piece of gibberish and gobbledygook from a man responsible for the deaths of at least forty million Chinese.The author and this work can't be recycled, unfortunately. The pages can be used for toilet paper though.
While Mao might be a controversial figure in regard to Marxism, there are two key factors which can be understood from this work.
The first being that Mao clearly understood Marxism and dialectics earlier in his life.
The first half of the book is evidence of this, with Mao explaining Marxism clearly (if not in a rather simplistic way) pre-1950.
The second factor is that Mao has a solid understanding of the relation between people and how to unify the people in a Marxist system.
This is evidenced by the second half of the book which talks about this in detail.
Then they went off towards the quarry and we went off to put on our uniforms and ammo belts.Having a copy of their plan of operations, our tactic was to stay one step ahead at all times, lying in wait, then raising our M1s to shoot them as they stumbled upon one of our cunning traps.
There, ahead, was a depression in the earth surrounded by trees, behind each one of which was a concealed enemy soldier, suspicious of a trap.
Rather it is just a bunch of repetitive slogans and some pieced together communist dogma.
Bad translations not withstanding.What is interesting is imagining the followers of Mao endlessly reading these quotations and indoctrinating themselves into Maoist revolutionaries.
Not because of any persuasive ideas, but just because the insistent and monotonous repetition of these same catch phrases and slogans did actually get me into a bit of a trance-like state.
I now keep it on the bookshelf as a bit of cultural kitsch rather than an actual piece of legitimate reading.
Tengo entendido que es el segundo libro de mayor impresión en la historia (después de la Biblia), así que me parecía importante leerlo.
Digo, es uno de los libros que más influencia tiene (o ha tenido) en la historia.
Ergo, me parecía que estaba bien leer este libro de tanta influencia para esa cultura.
De nuevo: no creo que haya que leerlo como si fuera la verdad, como si todo lo que dice fuera cierto, o lo que realmente estas personas pensaban, pero son personas muy importantes (en el caso de Eva, solo para Argentina) como para no dedicarle un rato a leer los libros en los que expusieron sus ideas.
Not a good straight-through read, but a helpful compilation to have. I do have some problems especially with the chapter "On Women,"-- for example, he says "China's women are a vast reserve of labour power," but -no mention- whatsoever is given to the fact of "women's work," and that women already do vast amounts of unremunerated domestic labor, etc. Also don't think he actually read any Hegel, tbh.
Mao updated communism and resolved many of its internal contradictions, particularly after Khrushchev's rise in the USSR which coincided with increasing liberalism and bureaucracy. Required reading for any serious political analyst regardless of ideological bent
Second, the principle of unity between the army and the people, whichmeans maintaining a discipline that forbids the slightest violation of the people’s interests, conducting propaganda among the masses, organizing and arming them, lightening their economic burdens and suppressing the traitors and collaborators who do harm to the army and the people — as a result of which the army is closely united with the people and welcomed everywhere.
Second, we must be kind to our own, to the people, to our comrades and to our superiors and subordinates, and unite with them.Every comrade must be helped to understand that as long as we rely on the people, believe firmly in the inexhaustible creative power of the masses and hence trust and identify ourselves with them, we can surmount any difficulty, and no enemy can crush us while we can crush any enemy.We should be modest and prudent, guard against arrogance and rashness, and serve the Chinese people heart and soul.All genuine knowledge originates in direct experience.If a man wants to succeed in his work, that is, to achieve the anticipated results, he must bring his ideas into correspondence with the laws of the objective external world; if they do not correspond, he will fail in his practice.
Uma compilação das melhores frase e discursos do estadista Mao Tse Tung.
Essa é uma obra a ser lida por todos que pertencem à esquerda, incluso os que não são comunistas.
Com grandes máximas destinadas aos chineses (pertencentes ao Partido ou não), essas citações que tratam de reacionários, contrarrevolucionários, tratamento aos inimigos na guerra, igualdade entre homens e mulheres, jovens e velhos, camponeses e intelectuais, Partidários ou não-Partidários, entre outros assuntos destina-se não só aos chineses, pois aplica-se a todos os povos do mundo que lutam contra a opressão, seja ela de fonte externa ou interna.Um dos grandes livros a ser lidos pelos revolucionários do mundo.
Mais uma edição fantástica desta coleção da editora Guerra e Paz!
Mais uma vez o trabalho gráfico e o enquadramento histórico-político é fenomenal.
Das ditaduras do século XX esta é talvez a que menos sabia sobre.
Fiquei bastante impressionada e surpreendida com a brutalidade, que sobretudo um só homem, e um só regime, conseguiu infligir a milhões de seres humanos.
Para mim foi extremamente desolador tomar conhecimento da falta de humanismo de Mao, que sem qualquer compaixão deixou morrer milhões cidadãos à fome.
Sem duvida que é um livro essencial para nos esclarecer sobre a brutalidade que o fanatismo pode atingir.
The Great Helmsman's words flow like the mighty water of the Yellow River, majestic and calm, bringing nourishment to the Chinese people. The Glorious Teacher, Chairman Mao, has developed the universal truth of Marxist-Leninist thought to a new height, guiding the nation on a new path towards constructing socialism. Chairman Mao, the people yearn for you like the crops yearning for the sun! Anyone who doesn't like the words of the Great Helmsman is a capitalist roader, running dogs of Liu Shaoqi, agents of Soviet revisionism, and American spies.
Statements of revolution, communism, how to found a nation and build a worldwide movement are the core of this book. Quotations should be read by any person looking to capture a goal for themselves. There are lessons of direction, how to manage resources and people and how to pass on these lessons from generation to the next. Communism and capitalism intermingle in this book enough for one to see the embittered battle that once had the full audience of the world's attention.
a good and concise summary of marxist-leninist thought. a requirement for understanding modern chinese history and current affairs
Did not make it through this. There is nothing of substance here. It's all call to action and propaganda: "We must...." with no why. And no explanation of the enemy or their motivations is included, only that 'they are the enemy and will erase all we have achieved'. Even then no strategy is discussed.
Quizás uno de los libros más dañinos en la historia de la humanidad. Convertido en una biblia rápida por los guardias rojos, condensa buena parte de los clichés y frases de la mamertería (maoísta o no). Sorprende que los "teóricos" de la "democracia radical" no lo citen, con la excepción de Slavoj Žižek, para quien Mao y la Revolución Cultural son un modelo ideal para el futuro postcapitalista.
Mao had a piss poor understanding of Marxist theory, he has a rigid and mechanical view of dialectics, he seems to think contradictions are something that MUST be solved, whereas as Amadeo Bordiga says in his essay "On the Dialectical Method": "The dialectic is not the sport of paradox; it asserts that a contradiction may contain a truth, not that every contradiction contains a truth".
As a book its definitely worth reading, if only to see how far a supposed marxist theorist can get away from the marxism of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Luxemburg.
Some of the quotes expose the insanity and "true believer" nature of Maoism, but not many.
In general these seem to be mild bromides which would be good advice to any aspiring political movement which is organized based on cadres, party lines, mass participation, etc.
some of them are just good pieces of advice for running organizations in general.
Overall it seems to be full of basically sound ideas, but ideas which I only see half-applied in the case of actually existing historical Maoism.
Really interesting read.What fascinates me is how Tse-Tung managed to pursuade his father into punishing him less and how he from this experience gained confidence in his own confiction and power.As fascinating a character he might have been, the writings of Tse-Tung is - in my opinion - the perfect example about the difference between words, ideals and deeds.
Living out ideals is always complex.
This book reminded me of the distinction between the two ideologies / societal structures.It is odd how ideals and deeds can have a hard time out-balancing each other.
Animal farm is the perfect depiction about this.
Disturbing.
I personally know Chinese persons who were on both sides of the people's revolution, one was a young Red Guard, and the other was a man and wife who were separated and sent to Gansu Province to be re-educated via hard work.
Thousands of those being re-educated committed suicide by laying across railroad tracks at night.
One only has to travel to the PRC, and I've been there a dozen times, to see that the party members were the first to benefit from the Peoples Revolution, and to this day continue to be treated better than the proletariat.

A fascinating read this. The title of being one of "the most published books of all time" carrys some baggage these days as it usually means populist trash. Not this. This collection of quotes contains some gems of wisdom, but also some advice that perhaps seemed relevant to the cause at the time but now sound dictatorial. Nevertheless, its historical importance as a glimpse into Chinese history and politics is without parallell. Even if you disagree with reactionary politics, this is a must read for followers of China's place in the world today.
to investigate a problem is to solve it.
Reading for understanding.
GreatGreat thoughts and perspectives. Opens your mind to ways to think analyze and lead. Essential read to further dialectal materialism.
