https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18868334-the-good-earth-trilogy
A great read. Hard to put down.This story grips you at the start. Would recommend reading the entire trilogy from start to finish. I was sad to finish. Definitely Pearl S Buck at her best.
The Good Earth - 4☆Sons - 3☆ A House Divided 3☆
The second installment explores the aftermath of Wang Lung's death and the choices his sons make and their lack of suffering serves as a foil for the first novel, which, I think is why I preferred the first.
The second novel focuses on the third son who the reader believes will be a great man but then we find in the third installment, that he becomes what he loathed all along.
I recommend this trilogy to anyone who wishes to explore the Chinese culture or to read about family and the struggles that lie within them.
দীরঘ দুইমাস ধরে এই বইটি পড়েছি। কাল রাতে ঘুমাবার সময় যখন আর এই বইটি পড়ছিলাম না, তখন বইটির জনয মন খারাপ হচছিল। তখন মনে হল আলাদা ভাবে সিরিজটির বযাপারে কিছু লেখা দরকার। বইটা আসলে তিনটা করোনোলজিকাল উপনযাসের সংকলন। তিনটা উপনযাসের বযাপারে লমবা লমবা অনেক কথা-বারতা লেখি ফেলেছি। The Good Earth (House of Earth, #1) , Sons (House of Earth, #2) , A House Divided (House of Earth, #3)  একটা হল এডুকেশন। যেটা একই সাথে নিজের জগৎটাকে বড় করে দেয়, কিনতু বাড়তে থাকে অপরাপতি। আছে জেনারেশন গযাপ। নিজেরা একই বয়সটা পার করে

I rarely own books, preferring to use the library or borrow, so when I do, it means it's exceptional and means something special to me. I had to search to buy this out of print trilogy......twice! I loaned the first one out & never got it back. Most of us had Buck's "The Good Earth" as required reading, but I wonder if many are aware that it is part one of a trilogy followed by "Sons", then " A House Divided".....chronicling the rise and fall of a family in three generations. Lessons to be observed for us all. Great books.
Enjoyed the first in the trilogy - setting aside for now!
China from the InsidePearl Buck, the child of American missionaries, who grew up in rural China speaking both Mandarin and English, presents something of the drama of Chinese history in the early part of the twentieth century woven into the three generation saga of the Wang family. Beautifully written, hopeful, but unflinching in the face of flaws and evils of the past and prophetic of those to come. This magnificent trilogy led to her winning the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1938.
Engaging plot. Good execution.
I began to see the language as part of an epic storytelling perspective that makes the narrator almost invisible and the conduit for tales that capture sweeps of time through characters whose lives seem real yet representative of larger social themes.As with any saga, the portions dealing with more distant events blend into one kind of narrative, while as the saga gets closer in time to the author's own era, the definition caused by perspective becomes less sure.As history, the trilogy spans the period before China's re-ascendancy as a major world power.
The trilogy is as much about how the U.S. sees China as about the history.EditDelete
The Good Earth Trilogy by Pearl S.
BuckReviewed by Alex Canton-DutariI read The Good Earth during my early college days, and I was captivated by the prose, which was full of words not common among my peers.
Nevertheless, nowadays -- fifty years later -- I could not recall any specifics, which drove me to read the trilogy recently.
And I discovered that I was attracted to the literary poetry found in The Good Earth.
BTW, Ms Buck hooked me on an interest about China, and I have been there several times, always recalling the love for this country instilled by this author.
ONCE, TWOCE, THREE TIMESI've read the hard copy of this book (The Good Earth) a few years ago and after joining Kindle Unlimited I decided to read it again, this time as a trilogy.
I loved the classic book in high school, and after reading the expanded family saga on Kindle, the struggle from simple farmer to rich landlord and from successful warlord to scholar over three generations, I love the story even more.
If you haven't read the The Good Earth yet you should.
If you have, consider re-reading it as part of the trilogy.
Pearl S.

Love the first book! Read it in high school. Did not realize it was part of a trilogy. So when my book group chose to rad this book I decided to finish out the trilogy. Book one is five stars!!! Books two and three, while interesting, just we're not as engaging as the first book. Hence, the four stars overall.
The Good Earth is a classic and I enjoyed it just as much as I did in high school. Sons was okay but the House Divided was extremely boring. I could not finish it.
good one indeed!!
Of the three books I think I like the last, A House Divided, as it provided much of the historical content of a nation in conflict in the face paced world of changing technology and and the spread of individualism subverting family and cultural tradition.Centered on Yuang, the grandchild of Wang the farmer and of the son of Wang the Tiger, Buck has a strong understanding of what people are going through during this rapid change.
She juxtaposed these ideals against the new ideas foreigners brought with them quite nicely with a clear understanding of the difficulties of the young who must make sense of these different ways of life.
Three books about 3 generations of a family in China.
It was a Pulitzer Prize winner, and Buck late won the Nobel Prize for her body of work.
Clearly, "The Good Earth" was the best of the 3.
The other books were a continuation of the story, and of the revolution in China, and of the changes in the family as they gained wealth and status.
Buck tried to emulate the syntax and feeling of the Chinese language in the way she wrote; it was effective at times, but somewhat limiting, and irritating at other times.
Must read!How amazing these books are in describing the Chinese lifestyle during these years and many difficult times. The characters are so richly written that you feel as though you really get to know them throughout these books. This trilogy makes you reflect on how you would handle the different situations and the huge changes taking place throughout these years. Everyone should read these books. If you can’t read the entire trilogy then at least read “The Good Earth” (book 1).
I really enjoyed the first book, "The Good Earth." On it's own I'd rate it a 4. The next book, "Sons," I had difficulty getting into, but I did finally did, and I would rate it a 3. Finally, "A House Divided" was my biggest challenge. Just couldn't get into the story until more than half-way through the book. For these reasons the overall rating is lower. But "The Good Earth" especially is worth the read. Buck's writing is well done.
Can't put it downSimple writing style making it accessible to middle schoolers, yet the depth of emotion, the vivid portrayal of 3 generations of the Wang family and their joys and struggles during this transition from feudalism towards modernity, make the book f!ow before mind,a eye for the entire trilogy. By the end I felt like an invisible bystander ever present in their !ives. Please read!??
I originally read the Good Earth about 40 years ago. I remember referring to it as my favorite book for over a decade. Having finished reading these moving and inspiring books again, I remember why they so affected me in my teens and loved their abundance of culture, knowledge and emotion. What's not to love?
Loved The Good Earth, slogged through Sons, mildly enjoyed A House Divided.
Great readBuck tells a great story. I became totally engrossed in the three generations of sons. Loved spends no the summer reading all three books.
A decent book to read to understand how the Chinese lived in early part of the last century. Indians will be able to relate to the living conditions. The only difference being the widespread usage of opium which was not the case in India and the absence of caste (only castes were moneyed or not-moneyed).The book would be better if one has read the Chinese history and the major events. Knowing them one would be able to better related to the events described in the book.A decent read.
Fantastic read.
BuckAlways a good read. I love the classics and the simplicity they provoke. We all feel at times between lives and alone
The first two books were better than the third one, which seemed to crawl along. Very interesting to get a sense of the Far East and its modern history.
Great book. Saw the movie, too. I did not like the book’s ending. I thought Wang Lung never truly appreciated O-Lan and refused to see her intelligence.
Excellent series, but it felt like a long slog. By the second half of the last book, I’d had enough of the Wang family and was racing to finish.
Excellent family and cultural saga.Beautiful writing.hard to put down.filled with emotion.a must read. Family is portrayed in loving way with sadness and much feeling.
