https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6366437-half-broke-horses
If you've read The Glass Castle by Jeannette Walls, and wondered about Rosemary's lack of maternal instincts and caring, this book will help explain why she was the way she was.
Not as compelling as The Glass Castle, it is, nevertheless, a book well worth reading.
Lily is a most unforgettable character, and the time frame and geological regions she lived in adds to the enjoyment of the story.
But it also does not excuse the lack of stability and provisions that permeated the lives of Rosemary and Rex and their children.
Lily reminded me of my own grandmother, who also had a lot of gumption and who could teach you a thing or two about life.There were so many good quotes in the book, but one of my favorites is from when she started college:"I wished I could take every course in the curriculum and read every book in the library.
There are some references to Lily Casey in Castle, and I appreciated them more having already read Horses.
Jeannette Walls's original intent was to write a book about her mother Rose Mary's childhood on an Arizona ranch.
Rose Mary convinced her that it was grandmother Lily's life story that needed to be told.
Walls chose to call the book a novel because she got all the stories secondhand, from Lily's daughter Rose Mary.
Walls wrote it in the first person, as if Lily Casey Smith were telling you her life story.
If you've read The Glass Castle, you'll also appreciate the insight Half Broke Horses gives about how Rose Mary's early life made her the unconventional mother she later became.
It is tough to even wrap my brain around the amazing and horrible things people have done and still do, and I want to hear about all of it.As you probably know, Jeannette Walls wrote Half Broke Horses about her grandmother’s insane life.
The book starts out with a harrowing description of Lily, Walls’s grandmother, saving her little brother and sister from a flash flood by making them climb a cottonwood tree and cling there overnight while the flood subsided.
But, if I had expected that surprise of something genius wrapped in an off-putting cover, and if I had counted on that, I think I would have been a little disappointed, like a lot of people were.
This is the second book I've read from Jeannette Walls, and for the second time I've really enjoyed her writing.
It also inevitably makes you wonder (for those who've read the GC) how this story ties into the lives of author's parents, and why things turned out the way they did.It's a great escape from the reality we live in now, with computers, text messaging, and the crazy speed at which technology moves us.
The first person narrative of Walls' grandmother brings us to another time and place, bringing us alongside her life growing up in the southwest riding horses and living on a ranch, among other things.
Along the way she learns not to trust people, and with reason.Born in a dug-out in Texas with a anti-authoritarian father with a physical disability, but a very strong mind, and a mother who cared more about lost social standing than physical hard work, Lily quickly learns to make up her own mind and let things happen.
It became obvious that a collection of anecdotes and legend was used to construct a story and try to make it work as a novel.
Like Alexandra Fuller, the author uses her family to write and sell her stories.
The inside jacket calls this book, “Laura Ingalls Wilder for adults.” I’d call it more, “Calamity Jane: Her Life as Told by Herself.” It is, ostensibly, a partly fictionalized life of the author’s grandmother, Lily Casey Smith, who grew up on a hard-scrabble farm/rance, learning to do what all the other ranch hands did and what her father couldn’t do.
It’s off to Chicago with her, where she meets a travelling salesman (vacuum cleaners) and gets married.
This time, she looks to the future and decides to embrace it.
It is called a "True Life Novel" because it is written from the stories that the author, Jeannette Walls, remembers her grandmother telling, rather than from personal papers.Lily comes across as a pretty amazing woman, who is also a survivor.
She makes her way through life in a pretty no-nonsense kind of manner, always managing to find a way to make things work, whether it is The Great Depression, or tornadoes and floods.I read this entire book, and didn't *not* enjoy it, but I can't say I really liked it.
I am in the midst of this read but I have to say as soon as I read the first page I was invested in what was to unfold. It was a real grabber of a opening. I finished this book and enjoyed every moment of reading. It was so interesting. It covered many changes in the main characters life and it represented how most people will deal with what comes their way, with grace and acceptance. Very good book.
To me, there were 2 "sins of omission" here--one, I really wish Walls would have put a map at the beginning of the book of the west where Lily lived because I'm not familiar with the distances and all the moves back and forth.
a biography) Walls could have extended the book by another 100 pages or so to really emphasize some of the remarkable things Lily did, make more of a build up.
(copied review) By age six, Lily was helping her father break horses.
She raised two children, one of whom is Jeannette's memorable mother, Rosemary Smith Walls, unforgettably portrayed in The Glass Castle.
That was fun! Very much looking forward to author's own memoir. The first person narrator worked so well.
There is a heart beat in this book that found its way into my reading chair and remained there until the last page.
From the first chapter I was intrigued with the simple way of life that seemed both easy and hard at the same time--lives of honest, hard working people who were the salt of the earth and the backbone of our country.
I would recommend this book to anyone who has a sense of American history in their blood and wishes to be taken back in time when things were simpler and life was a little more straightforward.
An easy book to read without the shocking episodes that occurred in The Glass Castle. It gave insight into Rosemary, the mom, who just allowed everything to happen without feelings. It gave you insight as to why Rosemary allowed her children to grow up poor and without what we think to be life's necessities.
I wish Jeannette Walls' biography/novel 'Half Broke Horses' had been available prior to her own biography 'The Glass Castle'. Both of the stories are related and rivetting but 'Half Broke Horses' provides the background for Jeannette's bizarre upbringing. This account of her grand-mother's life living on ranches in west Texas, New Mexico and Arizona is a wonderful tribute to a 'pioneer' who isn't afraid of hard labor--she's one spunky, admirable woman and a real survivor.
"If you want to be reminded of the love of the Lord, Mom always said, just watch the sunrise.
And if you want to be reminded of the wrath of the Lord, Dad said, watch a tornado." Thus starts an absorbing, humorous, remarkable "true-life novel" based on bestselling memoirist Jeannette Walls's grandmother's life.
There are plenty of sunrise moments, as Lilly is as much a part of the landscape as she is a product of her parents' pioneer life, and there are plenty of tornado moments (the book starts with a biblical flood).
Walls' latest novel skillfully blends her grandmother's rich history with the fascinating history of her day, taking us on a journey from the turn of the twentieth century to the post-WWII era.
Readers get a thorough and compelling picture of what life was like for competent, hard-working cattle ranchers in the American southwest during the Dust Bowl days.
Unflappable, grandmother Lily Casey Smith lived an adventurous life: a young woman growing up on ranches in wide open spaces (and at various times larger cities) during an ever progressive, modernizing America.
Walls shares the tales of Lily's life-long vocation: teaching young children in one-room schoolhouses in remote southwest locales.
It would be difficult not to like the writing style of Jeannette Walls. Elegant and down to earth at the same time, she has the ability to strike a chord of familiarity in the reader. She makes it easy to let yourself become a part of the story and to visualize the characters within their element. Loved this story. It’s the simple things in life that can sometimes lead to extraordinary story telling. Ms. Walls gets a four on the GR scale because of her ability to tell a great tale. And for that, Jeannette truly has the gift.
I recently read the The Glass Castle and decided to pick up this memoir which is a prequel to it.
The author tells the story of her grandmother the rancher who was a gritty, resourceful, moxie filled character.
The era and lifestyle are so beautifully portrayed; that you almost can sense the heat, dust, and animal smell.
I found the book particularly interesting because the author also chronicles her own mother as a child and young adult.
I did not however find this memoir as gripping as its predecessor.
I listen to the audio book as read by the author herself.
”You can’t fence them in,Cause they were born to run and then,You think you’ve got ‘em where ya want’’emThen they leave you all alone… Half Broke Horses,They never come back home- Jaida Dreyer” Setting:Texas and Arizona; 1901-1965Cover Thoughts:These kids look thoroughly unimpressed with everything. Even the cat looks unimpressed. But I really feel that this picture (by Dorothea Lange) captures the hardscrabble, no nonsense feel of the book. Plot: ”I asked Dad if he believed that everything tha
Born in a dugout in the heart of a Texas ranch, by the time she was five Lily was learning how to break horses with her father.
Whether it’s partaking her love of learning to the students she cared for so deeply, to making business transactions, or sweet talking her way into a deal, Lily was a larger than life, one of a kind woman.
”’I always liked to think I’d never met a kid I couldn’t teach,’ I said.
I absolutely loved the writing style as well, and I think it suited Lily rather well.
She was a survivor, and a good person too.The story is told in the first person point of view, and the author narrates her own book, so you have to remember that when she says "I", she is in fact referring to her grandmother!The book is funny, wise and easy to read.
When you clean up outside it all looks so pretty and you see it every time you look out a window.
Logically, I guess a cleaned up house is pretty too.And then another time she spends hours making cottage cheese from scratch, which everyone gobbled up in less than a minute.
We first meet Rose Mary Walls, the free spirited , artistic, and bohemian mother of author Jeanette Walls in her autobiography The Glass Castle.
This second book told in first person narrative by Lily Casey Smith, Rose Mary's mother, who herself was a darn gutsy horse ranching, airplane flying woman during the Great Depression gives you further insight into the families entertaining dynamics.
These books have resurfaced after the release of The Glass Castle film last year.
They are easy to read and entertaining, though as they are presented as non-fiction, you'll need to take them with a grain of salt.
2.5 Stars
This story follows Walls' real life grandmother and her colorful life, living in a dugout out West, being scammed in Chicago, working her way back out West, marrying again, teaching school, driving a hearse, running a ranch, etc.
It's a work of fiction since Walls uses her grandmother's voice to tell it and fills in blanks where she needed to.
You know, a story about a hard working lady who doesn't let things get her down and makes a life for herself on the ranch seems like it can't lose.
Still, every moment of this book is interesting, and the tragic parts are told as Lily Casey would tell them: matter-of-factly.
Life isn't easy, but you still have to live it, and in an unconventional way, Lily Casey lived it large.
Jeannette Wells is a masterful storyteller--the tidbits about Lily's father and his love of phonetic spelling provide wry bits of humor throughout.A million book reviews will tell you the same and more...so stop mucking about, grab a copy, and go read it.
This was an excellent book. The writer draws you into the story from the very beginning when two young sisters are out in the field, and all the sudden they hear a flood coming and begin running for safety. Sometimes I think that I should only stick to reading books that are as enjoying to read as this o
Half Broke Horses is one of the most moving and nostalgic memoirs I've ever read. The author pulls readers into a gritty country life where times are tough but ultimately it's all worth it.
I was thrilled when I was able to read this book right after the Glass Castle since this explains a lot about their lives BEFORE. But to me, this one didn’t hold my interest like Glass Castle did. I found myself skimming throughout and I’m giving it 3 stars for that reason.
Audiobook read by the author.In what she calls a “true life novel,” Walls turns her attention to her maternal grandmother: Lily Casey Smith.
Not having the specifics of dialogue and thought, Walls felt it was not appropriate to call this nonfiction, yet it truly is her grandmother’s story.Walls is a wonderful storyteller; she really brings Lily and all the other characters to life.
And what a life!
The author also does a fine job of putting the reader into this time and place.
Walls narrated the audio book herself, and she does a marvelous job.
To be honest, five stars might be too generous, but I was so very impressed by this author's rise to a seemingly unsurmountable challenge, which was to create a worthy, readable, enjoyable book following the HUGE success of her first book.In her first book, "The Glass Castle", Ms. Walls gives us a glimpse into her tragic yet memorable family.
And while "Half Broke Horses" is a novel, it satisfies the voyeuristic curiosity by retelling us tales about her maternal grandmother which seems to definitely lay a foundation for future events.This book is good on so many levels.
THe beginning was a bit rocky but once Lily got out of childhood the book was much better. It was an interesting journey and Iwas engaged for sure. I DO wish there would have been a different narrator though. If you enjoyed the Glass Castle, it was interesting to see life through Jeannette's grandmother's eye as she views her mother that we all had trouble wrapping our minds around. 3.5 Stars
