https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48758.Boy_Meets_Girl
"I believe that getting our romantic relationships right as Christians means seeing God's glory as the ultimate purpose of any relationship." I was aware of the bestseller I Kissed Dating Goodbye although I haven't read it. I assumed it would be full of emotional sentimentality or love language theology as so many Christian books about relationships seem to be. I picked up this, the sequel, just because it was cheap, and to see what all the fuss was about...Harris refers back to the unexpected
I picked up this, the sequel, just because it was cheap, and to see what all the fuss was about...Harris refers back to the unexpected success of his first book when he was single, and sums it up like this:"I wanted to challenge other singles to reconsider the way they pursued romance in the light of God's Word.
He avoids the common pitfall of revealing too much information either about himself, his wife or other people and deals sensitively with the topics whilst also making disclosures where they might help people.I'm surprised to be writing that I can highly recommend this book and hope it will continue to change attitudes towards casual dating in Christian circles.
Having real-life stories introduce and/or conclude a section or chapter was more helpful than excess explanation from Harris.Here's some highlights:Chapter Two is really important as it introduces us to the concept that courtship (as opposed to dating) is all about being purposeful in a guy-girl relationship.
Harris is also careful to point out that he's not stuck on the term "courtship." Call it what you will, but his desire is for purposeful, pure relationships.Chapter Three contrasts romance and wisdom.
Harris does not ignore the women and gives them several helpful pointers from a guy's point of view.Chapter Nine is the one most people skip to because it's essentially the "SEX" chapter.
That being said, I struggle with the idea that a 25-year-old who is 2 years into marriage has "figured out" how romantic relationship-building should look with a few carefully-selected verses and a plethora of fairy-tale-esque relationship stories.(side note: I'm tired of seeing Song of Solomon 8:4 used to create any sort of defense of how modern relationships should look.
Is this verse used a lot in the book?
No, but I wanted to make this comment).Is it important that intentions be correct in a romantic relationship?
Absolutely not.I ended up getting remarkably worked up by this book.
A few years ago I read his book I Kissed Dating Goodbye, which was really helpful for my new outlook on relationships.
Or I guess what I should say is that they match up with what the Bible has to say about relationships, and it's just been nice to read these two books and have those thoughts confirmed.Anyway, what Josh proposes, in this book is getting back to the basics which is that a man should only pursue a relationship with a girl once he's ready to get married (men that means you must have employment too).
It says, if you follow a specific law of how to date (first rule, don't call it date, call it courting), and don't stray from this list of rules in any way, then you will have favor from God and he will give you an amazing sex life when you get married.
No. This book wreaks of legalism and completely bypasses the grace of God. It says, "hey God, I'm going to follow these rules, and they you'll be impressed and uphold your end of the deal and give me the marriage I want." I appreciate Harris' stance on purity and honoring God in your dating life.
I read I Kissed Dating Goodbye when I was in middle school and it scared me to death.
Sure, I also don't think you should date someone you would never DREAM of marrying, but there's a middle ground between scoffing at the idea of marriage and then "courting." You get sixteen-year old kids who want to be pure and follow Josh Harris' lead, but also don't want to casually date, so they try to not-quite-date someone because they really, really like them.
I could ramble on, but the bottom line is, I should have read this more as a personal account of Josh's journey with his wife than a how-to.
"Trust in the Lord with all your heart and not lean on your own understanding; in all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make your paths straight." - Proverbs 3:5-6The book wasn't a 'self-help to make our relationship long lasting' instead, it was a about trusting God on our relationship.
The book simply hit me hardcore.Mr. Harris will always amaze me.
We live for Him.And as for our love stories, Mr. Harris quoted, 'Real love is always fated......
And fate, of course, is simply a secular term for the will of God, and.
Harris has written Boy Meets Girl: Say Hello to Courtship to follow up with the way that Christians should view and go about dating/courting relationships.
The book is written in an engaging style with many stories of dating relationships/courtships that succeeded or failed with much to learn and to take into account from each of them.
76)Courtship, as described in Boy Meets Girl is "romance with purpose".
Overall, Boy Meets Girl is a great book that I would recommend for anyone who is planning on getting into a serious relationship or getting married at some point.
Being a college student trying to have a relationship GOD'S WAY isn't the most popular concept.
lolI just started dating and my biggest prayers are to do this God's way, NOT to be a stumbling block to my boyfriend/brother in Christ, and to HAVE FUN!!
:-) I really appreciate this book and am enjoying what I've read thus far.
I suppose more than anything the main themes are: prayer, respect, self-control, biblical love (not just based on emotions), and trust in God's timing/perfect plan :)PS: If you're not anywhere near marriage, I was advised not to read section 3.
this book was encouraging and made me think. maybe 3.5 stars. it seems that a lot of people are grumpy at Josh Harris for being legalistic; this is the first book I've read by him, but his approach seemed to be humble and God-centered, or that was the goal.seemed like a gracious, human attempt to seek out how to glorify God in relationships.people should not be so grumpy.
Balanced, helpful, and focused on principles instead of formulas. I was both encouraged and convicted by reading it.
I highly recommend this book for people seeking a more meaningful relationship than casual dating.
If you feel like the purpose of dating/courtship is to see if you would be interested in marrying a certain person someday, then this book is definitely helpful in seeing how it could work.
Also, the 8 conversation ideas in the back of the book are fun to glance over to get ideas for what to do on dates.
I especially liked the suggestion of each person taking a turn to pull out family albums, home videos, or baby books and telling his or her "story." I thought this might be a nice inside/winter date idea, especially if paired with a nice pot of homemade soup.

According to the Goodreads star system, that means "I really liked it." It's a self-help book about courtship that - in its own words - is to "celebrate God's way in romance." Lest that description give you the idea that it's nothing but pages of praise for courtship, I would add that it contains theology points as well as suggestions for practical approaches to romance within courtship.I thought that Boy Meets Girl was compelling enough.
While popular culture's take on dating needs a good Christian criteria and a strong alternative, Ithis book's model is sufficiently nuanced and fails to understand that more is accomplished in dating than finding a partner.
I agree with the authors assessment that we need to be more purposeful in dating relationships, but believe this book is provide just one model, where there are a number which honor God. I would suggest that his focus on courtship, dating as a way to discover if this relationship will grow into a marriage can lead to a selfish orientation and removes opportunities someone could have to grow and learn.
I will certainly be reading this book again when/if I enter into a courtship relationship with a young man.
I appreciated how this book not only focused on how a couple should interact as they enter this phase of their relationship, but also emphasized the importance of and practical applications for making the relationship Christ-centered.
The back of this book offers ideas for "eight great dates" and courtship conversations.
I know I'm not ready yet for this kind of relationship, but I was encouraged to be continually preparing my heart for my future husband, whomever he might be.
or a while I was very curious to read this book Boy Meets Girl, which is the sequel to I Kissed Dating Goodbye.
While I kissed Dating Goodbye gives us a radical idea of abstaining from any dating relationship, Boy Meets Girl answers the question of what to do when you have met the right person to marry: courtship.
The book is balanced with biblical principles, practical tips, applicable wisdom, challenging truths, and heartbreaking examples which give guidelines to those who want or will court a person before getting married.The message that Harris gives to us readers is to rethink romance in order to glorify God and not our own selves.
This book is well-written with realistic stories and real-life examples.
Joshua uses scripture extensively in this book, giving the sense that this is not just stuff he thought up but that it has been revealed to him in God's word.He also encourages readers not to take everything as set-in-stone truths and steps to follow to have the perfect courtship.
He states that every couple's story is different; he is not saying that everything must be done the way he and his wife did it.I don't agree with 100% of the concepts and ideas in here but even then, I believe this is a great resource for any Christian couple who want to evaluate their relationship, and even for singles to get insight into what courtship entails.
2005/2006-ish.This has been an open topic in our family since I was about eleven. Partially because I have an older sister, but also because it's something my parents value (healthy boy-girls friendship/ relationships). The book itself is very good! I definitaly don't argue with that. I would recomend it to any teenager, especailly those who value healthy boy-girl friendships:)
So he kissed dating goodbye only to court this shannon woman some years later.....  Oh...........please...............Im inwardly gagging....

After reading this book- I evaluate myself what I want to the person I am going to marry.
I also, started writing letters to him almost every week as like we've known each other and saying praying to him on my letters.
Like how Joshua Harris and his wife met...my hubby and I let God allow in our relationship.
I want to read this book again...but after I got married I passed this on to my niece and she is still believing God has wonderful plan in her life and her future.
I was familiar with Joshua Harris' "I Kissed Dating Goodbye" but I didn't know he wrote a book on courtship.
I like how he stated that conflict in relationships is not a bad thing; it shows that you are actually getting to know the other person.
I am seeing that what makes a healthy relationship is not the absence of conflict, but the willingness to persevere and work through it with God's help.
I am so looking forward to the day when I marry my wife, knowing that I did it God's way with His blessing!
Bukunya sangat bagus tentang bagaimana kita seharusnya memulai, menjaga dan membina hubungan yg benar sesuai alkitab.
Walaupun sebenarnya buku ini diceritakan dari persfektif pria, tetapi para wanita juga sangat baik membaca buku ini.
Saya suka buku ini karena buku ini tidak menceritakan teknis-teknis bagaimana kita mendapatkan seorang pendamping..tetapi lebih menekankan prinsip-prinsip secara alkitab tujuan dari sebuah hubungan dan bagaimana sikap yg benar dalam menjalani suatu hubungan.
Dan org pasti akan mengganggap kita "Kolot" ketika kita coba mengembangkan gaya "pacaran" yg benar sesyai alkitab..ini review pertama saya, walaupun agak berceceran kata2nya, smoga review buku berikutnya bisa lebih baik lagi..thanks..2 thumbs for this book.
In typical Harris style Josh uses the power of the pen to reveal the power of The Word in a way that will delight and convict his readers.
The beauty of the vision for courtship that Josh puts forth is that it can look different for every couple because every couple is different.
What is a "successful courtship?" Josh describes it this way: "A successful courtship is one in which two people treat each other with holiness and sincerity and make a wise choice about marriage—whether the choice is yes or no." This book is probably going to be a little more useful to couples coming from the "dating system" and looking for another option, but those more familiar with the idea of courtship should glean some helpful information too.

I read this because my girlfriend was reading it... and I was pleasantly surprised! I haven't read I Kissed Dating Goodbye, but I got the sense that this was a more mature, humble, and balanced take on the whole topic. The book is very God-centered, and also practical and human. The author is conservative and opinionated, but backs what he says up with scripture, logic, and several interesting stories. He recommends taking a hard line on purity, more than just 'don't have sex before you're married'.
I am not yet done reading this book...I am still in chapter 2 but it has already inspired me. I am in awe while reading this book. I can't help but pray to GOD while reading this because I am so convicted. GOD has revealed so many things to me through this book and yet I am still in the second chapter. I am looking forward to the other chapters. I am so excited with the things that GOD will reveal to me through this :)
Looking back I don't know why I read this. May be I thought it would help me find my soul mate.Well guess what? It didn't. I don't know why there are so many 'Christian dating' books out there.The church, overall, does a very poor job of ministering to single adults at a time when single adults make up a little over 50% of the population. Courtship? There are no easy answers. Like marriage it takes work and luck and unfortunately, the two don't always come together.
A great source of encouragement. Yes, courting may just not be practical for some circumstances, but I believe the heart of the message is to approach dating and marriage in a God-centered way, and I think this book nailed it. Got to set the bar high so you don't aim too low.
