https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1052026.Buy_Jupiter_and_Other_Stories
Okuduğum Asimov kitaplarının içerisinde 3 yıldız verdiğim ilki oldu bu kitap. İçinde en beğendiğim öykü, daha önce filmini de izlediğim, (başrolde Robin Williams olan Bicennential Man) 'Ben, İnsan' adlı öyküydü. Filmi izlermiş gibi keyifle okudum. Film eski ama türü sevenlere filmi tavsiye ederim. Diğer hikayeleri biraz koparak okudum, yine de kötü diyemem. Hepsi de orijinal fikirli Asimov hikayeleriydi. Ve bir Asimov kitabı daha okuduğum için memnunum.
The best of Isaac Asimov's science fiction stories are amazing.
These are all lesser known stories--Asimov himself said they were chosen because as of the date this book appeared they were his least anthologized.
Asimov himself in the introductions to the stories says so--he said at the time watching the nuclear arms race between America and Soviet Union he felt bitter and hopeless about humanity's future.
I also did love the little biographical asides that followed each story, so for an Asimov fan I do think this book is worth the read.
Some of the stories do not seem rather dated in their social attitudes and dialogue and if you want to nit pick there are issues with technology too however you cannot really hold that against the stories considering they were written over half a century ago in some cases - hey I am sure I could not have foreseen some of the changes that have happened in the last 10 years that for sure.So for me I think this is one of the lesser known Asimov short story collections and as such may not contain his most famous or influential works but it is an amazing testament to the mans creativity and skill
A good variety of stories from Asimov. I really liked the autobiographical interludes where Asimov talks about his life at the time of writing the story, as well as, how the story came to be. Favourite stories:Silly AssesBuy JupiterFounding Fathers2430 ADGreatest AssetEach An ExplorerA Statue for FatherThiotimoline to the Stars
Mi primer contacto con Asimov en los años de secundaria. Los cuentos son de muy buen nivel y además entre cuento y cuento Asimov mecha el libro con anécdotas y curiosidades que son casi tan interesantes como los cuentos en sí.
داستان هاي جالب و متفاوتي داره و يادداشت هاي نويسنده در بين داستان ها به جذابيت كتاب اضافه كرده .از بين ٢٤ داستان "بزرگترين دارايي" و "شاه گوييدو جي" برام جالبتر بودن
Reading Buy Jupiter from start to finish in the car (whenver I wasn't driving or sleeping) was engrossing to a point where not many books have taken me.
The stories range from funny to slightly haunting, and all possess a little sparkle of Asimovian quirkiness.
The whole book is supplemented by little autobiographical vignettes putting the context of Asimov's life while writing the story into place.
It only lends to the feeling of unrestrained Asimov (if I can turn that into a feeling!) I experienced while reading this.
Altogether, I only ended up encountering this book by chance, but what a lucky break for me!
Isaac Asimov's sci-fi short stories are generally terrific and interesting. This collection doesn't represent his best work and some of the stories are a tad pedestrian. But this is actually an autobiography of sorts, as Asimov added essays to explain the origins of the stories and how they relate to his own life. The stories are also scarcer than his other work. If you like Asimov or indulge in sci-fi shorts - or want a view of what it was like being a sci-fi writer back in the 50s to 70s - it's worth giving this a read.
Science is not a fiction, science is fact.Best Stories : Each An ExplorerBuy Jupiter2430 A.DLight Verse
Pas le meilleur recueil de nouvelles du maître de la SF mais quelques bonnes histoires thématiques ![CHRONIQUE] -> http://pugoscope.fr/3565-flute-flute-...
Isaac Asimov wrote more than a multitude of stories, I read through all his fiction relating to and from the Robot tales with the dawn of I, Robot.
There were some stories of future dystopias, two of which were supposed to be opposite views based on a single quote, but I didn’t really see the difference in the future, except one had a barren cement covered world and one had humans living underground leaving a wild trees and grasses world.
This allows the reader to learn and understand something about Asimov’s writing process and biography.
The stories are not long.
The stories were pretty classic Asimov, short on character, but long on plot and action and I thought the forewords and afterwords where the Good Doctor talked both about the story and threw in autobiographical details of his own life were just as interesting.
When talking directly to the reader, Asimov has a wonderfully chatty style; I'd have loved to have met him in person (although I can say that safely, as I'm not a young woman).Of the stories themselves, partial as I am to a good shaggy dog story (I love Clarke's  Tales from the White Hart, for example), Shah Guido G.
Siempre es un placer volver a Asimov, mas teniendo en cuenta que casi con seguridad se trate del pri
Buy Jupiter is a 1975 collection of 24 short stories by Isaac Asimov.
Between each story Asimov explains the history of story.
Sometimes he offers the reason behind the story and other times he explains the punchline.Most of the stories are actually shorter than the attached commentary, coming in at two to five pages in length.
It is also probably the best of the pun stories.Over all, though, I found Buy Jupiter hard to read at my usual pace.
It reads like Asimov is sitting in the corner of the room giving a drunken monologue about his story writing process.
I've had this anthology on the shelf for some time and have only read a few of the stories, scattered throughout the book, but now is the time to read the stories from the beginning to end.This is a review-in-progress and I will add small reviews of every story as I read them. Also, its worth noting that Isaac Asimov have added small tidbits of stories by the end of each story, telling the history of how the story came to be. Darwinian Pool Room  is a rather strange story about... well... evolut
Also, its worth noting that Isaac Asimov have added small tidbits of stories by the end of each story, telling the history of how the story came to be.
Now, the story has a strong, if not forced, morale by the end, but it is still a funny little read.
I liked the story well enough, which does have a funny ending...
It is another one of those stories that remain an idea, but this time...
is the story of how a man researching time travel, actually finds a way to bring dinosaurs into the present.
خواندن این کتاب مثل ملاقات رودر روی دوباره با ایزاک آسیموف بزرگ و دوست داشتنیِ.
خواندن چندین داستان کوتاه علمی تخیلی متوسط و خوب و عالی از نویسنده ای که بیش از هر نوع نوشتنی ، در این نوع نوشتن تبحر داره.
اینکه چطوری این داستان ها رو نوشته و و یکمی هم از زندگی خودش .
این کتاب برای اونهاییِ که میخوان با علمی تخیلی آشنا بشن برای اونهاییِ که همیشه و برای همیشه آسیموف رو دوست دارند و خواهند داشت و برای اونهاییکه می خوان بفهمند چرا و چه جوری می شه سیاره مشتری رو خرید و یا فروخت!
The theme of this collection is "under-collected stories." Given Asimov's propensity to sell and re-sell his stories as many times as possible it's not surprising that a collection of rarely collected stories contains overall sub-par stories. To be fair, a sub-par Asimov is still better than most science fiction writers A-games, so it's not a bad collection overall. As usual I enjoy Asimov's autobiographical bits between the stories.
Asimov writes his short stories like jokes: most of the story is set up and the end is a punch line. They are an easy read! Only one (possibly two) of the stories in this collection has emotional resonance, but the collection made me smile. The autobiographical notes between each story were also genuinely interesting — a snapshot of the science fiction world in the 50s, 60s and 70s.
Not his best stories (these are EXTREMELY talky, even for Asimov, and only a couple pun ones), but the interstitial biographical info is interesting. I did enjoy "The Monkey's Finger" - great for people to use in the current age of AI/machine learning. And the story surrounding the story of "Everest" was amusing to me.
I often forget how much I enjoy short stories. I especially enjoyed this selection of stories because they also included some backstory in between about each story and the author's life around the times the stories were written.
A re-read from long ago. Many of the stories, especially the ones from the 1950's, seem quite dated at this point, but the personal anecdotes between the stories were entertaining.
parmi les premiers écrits Asimov. quelques courtes et sympathiques histoires
Enjoyable collection of short stories.
The lack of fiction is boring.
This is a real fun collection of short stories by Asimov.
Avoid the "funny stories" , they are not funny at all , maybe a German with improper grammer was funny in 1975 , but it is absolutely not funny now.
Notable stories are : The Pause : Super story almost reminding me of Stephen king kind of plot.
: Interplanetary evolution seems to be the theme here in these stories story again reminding one of stephen kings plot more than something that asimov would write.Silly asses : Funny story , which is actually funny !silly asses is the punch line and what a punch line :D.
Antologia personale (Nightfall and Other Stories) è un'antologia di racconti fantascientifici di Isaac Asimov del 1969.
In questa antologia sono stati inoltre raggruppati tutti i racconti presenti in "Through a Glass", "Clearly", antologia inedita in Italia.In Italia originariamente è stata pubblicata in tre volumi nel 1971 nella collana fantascientifica Urania, in tre numeri consecutivi: n.568 (13 giugno), 569 (27 giugno) e 570 (11 luglio).
I read "I, robot" years ago and I could only remember a little fragment of a story about a liar robot who continuously lies to please people and three robot laws which I can't remember very precisely.
So long time I was feeling a gap as I know very little about Asimov's works and I almost can't remember anything about the only one I have read, So I tried this one to fill this absence.The first story "Darwinian Pool Room" was really interesting and for me makes an excellent approach to religion-evolution dilemma.
And let this be clear, Asimov is and remains a great author, but as any anthology or collection of any type all stories vary in quality and leave the reader with different feelings.For instance when reading 'Each an Explorer' I was left with a sense of worry and with a smile on my face when finishing 'The Monkey's Finger' and 'Silly Asses'.
Sadly, though, other stories left me indifferent such as 'Thiotimoline to the Stars' for instance.All in all a great collection of stories though.
I particularly enjoyed the author's commentary in-between every story which supplied a realistic and sometimes comic outlook on Asimov's life and motivation behind writing.
Also, its worth noting that Isaac Asimov have added small tidbits of stories by the end of each story, telling the history of how the story came to be.Darwinian Pool Room (9 pages) is a rather strange story about...
It is written as a conversation between a bunch of clever folks who discuss the creation of the universe, whether the world was the creation of some godly being or perhaps just, another step in evolution.
The conversations spans millions of years and is actually fairly interesting, even if it isn't much of an actual story.
Just started actually.
Cleansing the palate after "The Return of the Native".
I've read plenty of Asimov going back to the 50's.
I may have read some of these already.
Now a couple of days later.
I hope the light's will be on so I can read some more tonight.
With Asimov you always get what you pay for.
This books collects a bunch of shortish stories covering the 50's to the 70's.
a space admiral is addressing a bunch of cadets: "You learned that in grade school, when you took up elementary relativistic physics." Oh, really!?!?
