https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/784086.Deryni_Checkmate
The actions of a rabid and hate filled persecutor will also play a role in the story, which does not complete with this volume.*** SPOILER WARNING SPOILER DISCUSSION BELOW LINE ***(view spoiler)[The Christian Church will apparently always have to deal with the events of what is probably one of it's saddest periods, the Inquisition.
The events in the book put me in mind of a cross between the persecution of the Jews (in which many early Christians enthusiastically took part, including much of the church's power structure which, completely missing the point of the actual written books that existed, proclaimed the Jews guilty of Christ's death) and the persecution of the reformers.
In an effort to thin out the " To Be Read " pile of used book purchases, I decided to tackle all the skinny books first. The second book in the Chronicles of the Deryni focuses on the Half Deyni brothers Morgan and Duncan. Fast read, just a few new character and could have done without the secondary story arc which just seem out of place.
Great to revisit one of my old favorites again, this time via audiobook. A few unneeded extraneous plots, but I still love Morgan, Duncan, and Kelson enough that I was happy to read it again. The narration was very good too. The audiobooks of the first three Deryni stories are currently available for $6 each at audiobookstand.com, the internet arm of Brilliance Audio.
The church of Gwynedd considers magic anathema and is using its wealth, power, and influence to rid the world of Deryni magic.
Thus, Kurtz’s story is clearly inspired by our own middle ages when the Roman Catholic Church dominated Western religious and political systems and, having strayed from its Biblical roots, lorded it over the political leaders and the rest of the citizenry.In the previous novel, Deryni Rising (1970), we met young King Kelson who ascended the throne after his father...
Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
3.5Deryni Checkmate, first published in 1972, is the second novel in Katherine Kurtz’s epic fantasy series that’s set in a world called Gwynedd (loosely based our own medieval UK) where some people have inherited magic from a race called the Deryni which has interbred with normal humans.
Thus, Kurtz’s story is clearly inspired by our own middle ages when the Roman Catholic Church dominated Western religious and political systems and, having strayed from its Biblical roots, lorded it over the political leaders and the rest of the citizenry.In the previous novel, Deryni Rising (1970), we met young King Kelson who ascended the throne after his father...
A dramatic improvement from Book 1I first read Catherine Kurtz in the 1980s and picked up the series again while I am between authors and waiting for new publications.
I decided to continue reading the series and was glad I did, because they are worlds apart.
Deryni Rising (book 1) would most likely not find a publisher today, but Deryni Checkmate was a glimpse of the Katherine Kurtz that I fondly remember.The biggest flaw is that all the male characters seem to share a personality.
The few female characters have to divide their qualities between startlingly beautiful and old toothless hag.
This book focuses on the ancient battle of church versus state, and it's effects on Mrs. Kurtz magical kingdom of Gwynedd.
Unfortunately for the characters involved the age old battle hasn't yet been solved, and there doesn't seem to be a light at the end of the tunnel.To read this one you would almost have to have read the previous novels in the series.
Mrs. Kurtz usually recaps well enough to make it possible for her readers to pick-up the series mid-stream, but the plot thus far must have become too involved.
Still, this remains a very well written book, and you will finish it wanting more.
This picks up not long after Deryni Rising.
There is a new evil Deryni who wants Kelson's kingdom.
There is an archbishop who is finally acting on his anti-Deryni agenda.
There is a charismatic human who is leading a rebellion to cleanse the land of Deryni -- and those who support them.
Excommunication is a very real threat in this time period and has severe consequences.
As the title implies, this is a dark book.
Do try to have the sequel on hand.If you liked Deryni Rising, you will no doubt really like this book.
"I am a man: I hold that nothing human is alien to me" - TERENCEI love how the magic of the Deryni is the source of conflict in this story. It has a tinge of fantasy built around a medieval Catholic world. She shows the benefits of faith and magic in positive ways when wielded by just characters. However, she unleashes unbridled hatred and bigotry against the feared Deryni just because they are different. She brings the battle of good vs evil down to a human level that everyone can relate too.
This is the second book in the Deryni Trilogy, and though I enjoyed the first one, this second one was way better (written, at least).
I felt like this book had more focus to it, as opposed to tackling (or trying to, at least) too many issues.
For example, the main issue in this book is the Deryni (one man, in particular) being under attack from the church.
Though we obviously don't have magical people in the real world I really appreciate the relevance of the church feeling threatened by things it can't control.Anyway it's fun and I enjoyed reading this book.
Unless they demonstrate a superhuman moral sense, and none of the Deryni I've run into yet have, they'll always be tempted to use their powers to make their lives easier, and I can see why people would rather not have their minds read or be murdered by magic.Not that I think the Deryni pogroms are a great idea, but the reason the metaphor falls down is the same reason that Marvel's "mutants are a stand-in for [INSERT OPPRESSED GROUP HERE]" does--namely, that no real-world ethnicity has superpowers and superpowers change the calculation in a fundamental way that having different skin color, religion, or language does not.
Magic brings sadness and tragedy along with religious intolerance and fanatics to Gwynedd. In the 30 years war Europe saw between 3,000,000 and 11,000,000 people killed, is this the path that Gwynedd is on? This book was a little more complex than the last more character development and a few different plots that wind up tied together at the end. 3 1/2 stars.
The second book of the original Deryni trilogy suffers from the same curse of all middle books: how do you create a satisfying reading experience that is dependent on events in an earlier book yet won't be resolved until the next book? Despite a rather painful conclusion, Kurtz succeeds admirably.
Amazing how Katherine Kurtz got as much in a 300 page book as some authors get in a 900 page one. Much to think about in this part of the Deryni saga.
Great book and quickly on to the next!!!! Wonderful storytelling, characters really live and come off the page.
(I'm talking specifically about the dissident bishops.) Again, women are almost completely non-existent; of the two present (Kurtz can't seem to sustain more than two female characters at a time in these books), one is a ridiculously simpering fluff-head who is frequently infantilized by her menfolk, and the other is literally a senile old sorceress who appears in one scene and bumbles her way to plot-significance by being an addled crone.
The seventies were such a hot time for literary feminism, guys!Most bothersome to me is the way Kurtz tries to wring thematic significance out of unrelated and/or never-before-mentioned circumstances right at the end of the book.
The Deryni are a race of humans with magical powers who once ruled the Eleven Kingdoms, but are now feared and reviled, their magic called evil by the church.In this book, Bishop Loris decides that the Deryni Duke Morgan must be held accountable for his Deryni magic, so he threatens all of King Kelson's kingdom with interdiction (the refusal of sacramental services) until the King turns out his Duke.In this second novel of her career, Katherine writes clean prose, clear characters, and comprehensible scenes.
If you don't like descriptions, the book feels extremely padded.
Gwynedd is recognizably Britain--more so than what you see usually see in high fantasy, even if there aren't any real historical parallels to the Haldane dynasty--or the Deryni for that matter, magically talented people who are persecuted by the Church.
But more unusually, their "Holy Church" is quite recognizable as the Roman Catholic Church, and the church's beliefs are important to the characters, particularly Monsignor Duncan McLain, an ordained priest and newly made bishop, one of my favorite characters in the series.
It isn't the Church or religion that's meant to be seen as evil, as characters such as Duncan prove.
That is not the case here.Deryni Rising starts the story of King Kelson.
Instead, she chose to continue the story of King Kelson with a focus on Morgan, Kelson's chief Deryni/advisor.
Yet isn't death either a blessing after a long, fruitful life or a waste after a short life?
Isn't that what the medieval romances were about?Was Bronwyn a common name in medieval times?
I've read it in other books, such as Bronwyn's Bane, but those books are always set in medieval times.
I've never known anyone named Bronwyn nor have I seen it in modern books or movies.
The first half of this book seemed very slow and a little bit of a grind to read.
By the end of the book I was gobbling up the words anxious to find out what was going to happen, and shocked by one event that I did not see coming.
Maybe that’s why it seemed a little slow to me.
Deryni Checkmate does end leaving you hanging with a burning desire to find out what is going to happen in the conclusion of the trilogy.I rated this book an 8 out of 10.
Commento alla Trilogia: Unico erede di Re Brion, avvelenato dalla maga Charissa durante una battuta di caccia, il Principe Kelson, ormai maggiorenne, si prepara a governare sugli Undici Regni.
Ma Charissa, assetata di potere e vendetta, non gli concede tregua, e perché Kelson la possa affrontare in un duello di magia è necessario che un grande potere osteggiato dalla Chiesa - il potere Deryni - gli venga tramandato dal padre defunto la notte che precede l'incoronazione.
Attraverso un inverosimile susseguirsi di ricerche e avventure dal gusto dark horror, la Kurtz ci porta in un Medioevo alternativo ricostruito con scarsa accuratezza storica, in cui anche la lotta maghi–Chiesa è alquanto scontata e inutile.
Well, I don't know if it's the book or me but I kind of didn't like it.
I'm still going to read the next book because despite all - I really like the characters, especially Kelson, and I want to see how the story goes on because it's interesting.
These comments apply to all 3 books of the original Deryni Trilogy, Deryni Rising, Deryni Checkmate, and High Deryni.
I liked Kurtz's writing style, and she did a great job creating and describing the fantasy world of Gwynnedd.
I could see a lot of Welsh influence in the world she created.
Though I did like the series, I never went on to read the other novels by Kurtz about the Deryni or the Land of Gwynnedd.
I'd gotten the message the first time with the original trilogy, I didn't need to read more.
This was the second installment of The Chronicles of the Deryni.
However, as I suspected, Ms. Kurtz uses her books to build her world so this installment was great in explaining more of the world we find ourselves in.
I thought it was a good read.
Regardless, I am looking forward to the third and final installment of the Chronicles.
I also look forward to reading more books she has set in this world (though it will probably be a while as I have a sizable backlog!).
Carrying on with my High Fantasy binge - this continues 4 months after the previous book, where Alaric Morgan and Duncan McLain fall foul of the Archbishops of Gwynedd.
Because Alaric has never denied his Deryni ancestry, the religious heirarchy denounce him as evil and manipulative, and ultimately excommunicate him (and his Duchy) from the Church.I must admit I never realised how steeped in religion this book is/was: it takes Christianity as a given, and uses its precepts as a base for the actions of many of the characters.
I enjoyed reading Deryni Checkmate, Book 2 in the Deryni series, more than I had enjoyed Book 1 (which I had already found engaging).
There is more suspense and action, more dramatic tension, the plotlines get more intricate and complex, and of course we get to know better the main characters, who become more familiar.
I found the final climaxes (note the plural form) also much more captivating and emotional than the climax in Deryni Rising.Religious extremism remains a central theme in this second novel, and Katherine Kurtz shows a deep understanding of the workings of fundamentalists' minds.
Not as good as the first book.
I suppose I can excuse it by accepting that the magic bond between certain male figures creates an intimacy that would not exist otherwise.
But seriously, the male characters don't hide anything.
They really lay there feelings right out there.Character development was so heavy I lost the plot a few times in the book.The characters were likable and all very 'good'.
In fact things were going so well at times and the characters were so pure and without malice that I became paranoid that disaster lurked right around the corner for several chapters.

Miscellaneous comments:While I still like Morgan, I'm all about Duncan this reread.It's the church stuff - threats of excommunication etc - that really felt more like danger than the physical danger did. And the ritual description of said excommunication was very spooky and threatening.Considering the things I remember that still haven't happened, there must be a lot about to go on in High Deryni.I'll be off to dig the rest of the series out of their storage box now, and/or save up for the new ebook versions. Maybe both.
With this one we start to see Katherine Kurtz growing as an author we also see the story and the plot evolving from a simple fantasy to a richer novel with political intrigue.
Katherine Kurtz no longer feels it necessary to hide the fact that the powerful church is the Catholic church and this adds a richness to the story.
Unlike a lot of fantasy novels of the time Katherine Kurtz is not afraid to kill of characters which makes the drama and danger feel more real because you can't be guaranteed that the good guys will live.
