https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48132.My_Family_and_Other_Animals
So, when I found this book in the attic, with its dog-eared cover held together with Sellotape and its pages jaundiced with age, I had mixed feelings about reading it again.(A side note to any fellow Brits who once strode majestically in platform shoes: the price on the book was a nostalgic three shillings and sixpence).My Family and Other Animals is the semi-autobiographical account of prepubescent Gerald's expat life on the Greek island of Corfu with his upper crust, and eccentric, English family.Happily, this entertaining book far-exceeded my expectations.
The first from the trilogy and the first of Durrel's I've ever read. No words can express my love for this author and his immense sense of humor, pure and light, nothing topical or scathing beneath. I remember vividly laughing out loud on the streets and on buses while reading it, so wisely consider your reading spot! Howling with laughter in public places might cause you troubles, but the best part - you won't care a bit and will always consider it worthy!
Gerry Durrell.[Image source]B is for bathing-costumeThe chapter in which mother purchases an extravagant garment, 'covered from top to bottom with hundreds of frills and pleats and tucks', is one of my absolute favourites.
‘What on earth did you think it was?’‘It looks to me like a badly skinned whale,’ said Larry, peering at it closely.C is for Corfu'Here in Corfu,’ said Theodore, his eyes twinkling with pride, 'anything can happen.' A picturesque Greek island Gerry (aged ten) and his family (mother, two older brothers and one sister) moved to from Britain.
This is a perfectly charming memoir written by Gerald Durrell, a well known British naturalist and zookeeper.
It's charming because it chronicles his experiences with his family on Corfu, as a 10-year-old animal enthusiast.
It's charming because it is beautifully written.
It's charming because his family is so colonial and ooze Englishness but at the same time are quite unconventional.
I had more chuckles when the humans were involved, though, as I found the family dynamics really funny, if not entirely realistic.It's a lovely palette cleanser between the heavy literary fiction I've been reading, that is certain.
Living in Corfu was rather like living in one of the more flamboyant and slapstick comic operas." - thus claims Gerald Durrell in his Speech of Defense - or as other authors would prefer to call it: The Foreword or Introduction.Gerard Durrell: My grateful thanks then to:My wife, who pleased me by laughing uproariously when reading the manuscript, only to inform me that it was my spelling that amused her.Sophie, my secretary, who was responsible for the introduction of commas and the ruthless eradication of the split infinitives Split infinitives was a popular vice for authors such as Daniel Defoe, Benjamin Franklin, William Wordsworth, Abraham Lincoln, George Eliot, Henry James, and Willa Cather.
I remember finding a box of Gerald Durrell stories on the shelf as a twelve year old and reading them in luxury.
They captivated me as Durrell told the story of his childhood in Corfu hunting animals.
Told with wit, humour and the pure ability of a natural storyteller this is a sort of autobiography that you can read as a novel full to the brim with short stories.If there's one thing Durrell does exceptionally well it's write description.
His descriptive writing almost drips from the page so that you feel every detail in your imagination as a real sense.
It's light, it’s fun and in fact what it teaches about animals, human beings included, is absolutely spot-on!
Fun stories based on the author’s own diaries, begun when he was ten, visiting Corfu with his family for the first time.
OK, so have your read books by Gerald’s brother, Lawrence Durrell?
Larry/Lawrence is drawn by Gerald as a younger brother might.
I think I see the Lawrence Gerald draws in Lawrence’s own books; I think he has drawn him to a tee.
I think this, the first of the author’s Corfu Trilogy is better than the second, Birds, Beasts and Relatives.
¡Me ha encantado! Es entrañable, evocador y MUY divertido, hacía tiempo que no me reía a carcajada limpia con un libro pero Durrell lo consigue con una facilidad envidiable.Esta familia y su peculiar zoo ambulante se ha quedado conmigo, por supusto leeré las secuelas ♥
With a flick of his hand he sent the unfortunate scorpion flying down the table, and she landed midway between Margo and Leslie, scattering babies like confetti as she thumped on the cloth.
The scorpion had now gone to ground under Leslie's plate, while her babies swarmed wildly all over the table.
Roger, mystified by the panic, but determined to do his share, ran around and round the room, barking hysterically."It's that bloody boy again ..." bellowed Larry."Look out!
They're coming!" screamed Margo."All we need is a book," roared Leslie; "don't panic, hit 'em with a book.""What on earth's the matter with you all?" Mother kept imploring, mopping her glasses."It's that bloody boy ...
It gets better every time I read it. Thank Heavens Durrell didn't get much formal schooling, or they might have educated his writing ability right out of him. The chapter about the moonless midnight swim, with the fire flies flickering, and the porpoises making trails in the phosphorescence, and the millions of stars shining overhead was so incredibly beautiful that it brought real tears to my eyes.
I got hooked on the show which was amazing, and was recommended to read the book, which I'm glad I did because it's equally amazing yet different.
I really feel like I got to know Larry, Leslie, Margo, Mother, Spiro, even Lugaretzia.
Each day had a tranquillity, a timelessness, about it, so that you wished it would never end.
But then the dark skin of night would peel off and there would be a fresh day waiting for us, glossy and colourful as a child’s transfer and with the same tinge of unreality.
Never before were animals (and yes, also insects) as funny and interesting as in this book. Insects will never be boring again after reading this book. Nor will birds or frogs or... Durrell handles them all with a lot of humour in the stories in this book. Exhilarating!
He pointed out that this would at least let us know when she was coming, and allow us time to escpe, for Lugaretzia had developed the habit of creeping up behind one and groaning loudly and unexpectedly in one's ear.Your Uncle didn't write with cliff hangers or drama, and his style and wit are subtle and soft and so very welcome in this fast-paced world.
His stories unfold in the style of Enchanted April or Under the Tuscan Sun and, it turns out, you'll treasure his words for years to come.
Che libro meraviglioso!!!
La mia famiglia e altri animali, primo romanzo della Trilogia di Corfù, che ho intenzione di continuare al più presto, è il racconto spassosissimo dei primi cinque anni di vita del famoso zoologo inglese nell'isola greca, in compagnia della sua bizzarra famiglia.
Durrell racconta l'isola e le sue meraviglie naturali, mescolando, alla sua crescente passione per la Natura, aneddoti della propria vita familiare.
Scritto in modo magistrale, è un libro che andrebbe fatto leggere a scuola, per lo stile, curato e ricco di vivide descrizioni, ironico e divertente, leggero come un soffione, sorprendente come un ragno botola.
I još nešto, što više govori o vremenu u kojem živimo nego o bilo čemu drugom: ima jedna scena pred kraj romana, gde Džerija Durela, dečaka od jedanaest godina, sreće jedan stariji čovek i nemo ga posmatra dok se ovaj (potpuno sam) igra na plaži.
Meni se steže stomak i sve čekam neki mrak, nešto teško (iako osnova za tako nešto u romanu pre ne da nema nego) i...
Zašto sam ja mislio da će se nešto drugačije desiti?
Radnja ovog romana odvija se pre osamdesetak godina i to je ipak neki sasvim drugačiji svet.
I to je ono što je i više no tužno.4+

Il libro è scorrevole e ben scritto, in molti punti comico, l'unica critica che farei è l'eccessiva descrizione scientifica della fauna, che per un lettore non esperto o appassionato dell'argomento puó risultare pesante. Nel complesso, buon libro, sicuramente vale la pena leggerlo.

Se não fosse pelos rasgados elogios dos amigos do Goodreads nunca teria dado por esta preciosidade.
Claro que a família não lhe ficava atrás e cada um à sua maneira contribuío para que fossem confundidos com um circo itinerante.Gerald Durrel dedicou a sua vida aos animais e à sua proteção.
Morreu em 1995 mas os seus esforços em defesa da natureza continuam vivos, e a continuidade do seu trabalho é assegurada através do Durrel Wildlife Conservation Trustes.
I've not yet read his work but Justine is now on my to-read list and I'll let you all know.) The whole time this funny family (mind you, no one tries to be funny, but things keep on happening to them that honestly don't really happen to other people) is on the idyllic island of Corfu (God, just kill me now if I don't ever make it there some day to at least set up some sort of shrine to Gerald Durrell) the boy Gerald mostly runs wild and free to pursue his own interests.
Hilarious, vibrant story! It sort of reminded me of two of my favorite authors, Jonathan Dunne and Farley Mowat. The story of a wacky family moving from England to Greece, it's a completely unforgettable memoir with a lot of originality.
Re-read via the BBCNaturalist Gerald Durrell's magical 1930s childhood with his eccentric family on the Greek island of Corfu. Stars Celia Imrie.1956 - such a good year!
Αλλά επειδή σαν ιστορία είναι καλογραμμένη και ευχάριστη και έχει μεγάλο ενδιαφέρον ο τρόπος που ο συγγραφέας ζωντανεύει την εποχή (Κέρκυρα 1935) και τους χαρακτήρες του βάζω πέντε.
Πιστεύω πως είναι ένα βιβλίο που μπορεί να το απολαύσει καλύτερα ένα παιδί ηλικίας από 8 ως 14 ετών.
Πρώτα από όλα ο Τζέραλντ είναι ο αδερφός του Λώρενς Ντάρελ που έχει γράψει το αγαπημένο μου “Αλεξανδρινό Κουαρτέτο”.
Και μου έδωσε την εντύπωση πως σκόπιμα παρουσιάζει μια καρικατούρα του αδερφού του, ως εκκεντρικού και ενοχλητικού, φαντασμένου καλλιτέχνη, γεμάτου έπαρση προσφέροντας προφανώς την απαραίτητη δόση διακωμώδησης, εκμεταλλευόμενος το ενδιαφέρον μερίδας των αναγνωστών για τον διάσημο αδερφό του, τύπου: "Ε, παιδιά ελάτε να σας πω μερικά ανεκδοτάκια για το πόσο κόπανος ήταν στα νιάτα του, ο αγαπημένος σας συγγραφέας”.
From the "Yes, dear" Mother to the eldest obnoxious son, Larry, to military Leslie, only-daughter Margo and of course, animal-loving Gerry.
While this book does consist of a lot of description, it serves as a means to show Durrell's obsession with nature.
Above them, on the crumbling walls of the sunken garden, the little black scorpions walked solemnly, hand in hand, among the plump mounds of green moss and the groves of tiny toadstools.The passage is descriptively beautiful, but yet the thought of a toad looking "a trifle embarrassed" and the word picture of "groves of tiny toadstools" ignite the imagination.
This is a wonderful account of a 10-year old boy's childhood years on the greek island of Corfu after his family moves there from England in the 1930s.
and who DOES this?...They must be independently wealthy b/c they keep moving from villa to villa, buying things like mad and none of them have jobs of any kind (with the possible exception of the 23-yr old brother who could dubiously be described as a struggling artist).
None of this is ever explained in the book, so you kind of have to just let it go, because really, what would a 10-yr old boy care about those details anyway.
This is a hilarious book. It can be aptly summed up something like this:—In a restaurant, laughing for the past two pages. A woman asks me, "What are you reading?""My Family and Other Animals." I said, "They just got attacked by scorpions.""And you're cracking up about that?" she asks, curiously."Yup."—And it's totally true. Everything is funny about this book… even the acknowledgements!
I am so glad that I finally read this book who stood neglected on my TBR shelf for too long. Durell’s remarkable ability of observation enables him to vividly portray on paper the behaviour of the creatures (and the people) around him in their minuscule details. The descriptions of the landscapes of Corfu Island in their changing seasons are equally beautifully poetic and glossy. Part nature guide and part autobiography, with plenty of humorous anecdotes, this memoir is a pleasure to read.
Η χλωρίδα και η πανίδα της Κέρκυρας δεινοπάθησαν στα χέρια του είναι η αλήθεια : χορταράκια ξεριζώνονταν και μετακόμιζαν προς παρατήρηση στο δωμάτιο του, αυγά πουλιών κλέβονταν με τους χαρακτηριστικούς (αθώα) ύπουλους τρόπους των παιδιών και εκκολάπτονταν σε γωνιές του σπιτιού, πτηνά υιοθετούνταν, εξημερώνονταν και περιφέρονταν από σαλόνι σε δωμάτιο, φίδια αναζωογονούνταν, μετά από ηλίαση (!) στη μπανιέρα του σπιτιού και άλλα πολλά διασκεδαστικά και δοσμένα μοναδικά!Απίθανες περιγραφές, με πολλές λεπτομέρειες, καθόλου κουραστικές, που κάνουν τον αναγνώστη να θαυμάσει την τελειότητα της φύσης και να αναρωτηθεί τι τελικά έχουν μάθει να βλέπουν τα μάτια του ....
”Se spune că atunci când îmbătrânești ca mine trupul îți funcționeaza mai încet. Nu sunt de acord. Nu, nu cred că-i adevărat. Teoria mea este că nu tu, ci viața se mișcă mai încet pentru ține. Mă înțelegi? Totul se domolește, iar tu poți observa mult mai multe când lucrurile sunt într-o mișcare lentă. Vezi atâtea lucruri! Atâtea lucruri extraordinare se întâmplă în jurul tău despre care n-ai avut habar înainte. Trăiești o aventură încântătoare, absolut încântătoare.”
Think of Gerald’s gift on his birthday, Sally the beautiful donkey her soft ears protruding from a crown of flowers, to help Gerry on his trips around the island, think of the circular boat Larry built for him to collect samples from the deep, blue sea.The Family, Mother, Lawrence, Larry and Margot knew that whatever they did, Gerry would always love animals, otherwise which crazy family would tolerate a matchbox exploding with baby scorpions at dinner.
