https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2657.To_Kill_a_Mockingbird
This is possibly one of my least favorite books in the world, one that I would happily take off of shelves and stow in dark corners where no one would ever have to read it again.I think that To Kill A Mockingbird has such a prominent place in (American) culture because it is a naive, idealistic piece of writing in which naivete and idealism are ultimately rewarded.
Jem and Scout will be children forever, existing in a world of black and white in which lacking knowledge allows people to see the truth in all of its simple, nuanceless glory.
Why is it when I pick up  To Kill A Mockingbird , I am instantly visited by a sensory memory: I’m walking home, leaves litter the ground, crunching under my feet.
Still, she lives in this idyllic town, I mean, except for the racism and the creepy neighbors and the whole fact that it’s, you know, the south…(forgive me… I’m not immune to the downfalls of the north, I mean, we had witches and well, Ted Bundy was born here…) But, there’s this sense of childlike innocence to this book that makes me believe in humanity… even in the throes of evil.
6.0 stars. I know I am risking a serious “FILM AT 11” moment and a club upside the head from Captain Obvious for voicing this, but nabbit dog I still think it needs to be said…TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD is one of the BEST and MOST IMPORTANT American novels ever written. Okay, I said it, and I will wait patiently while you get your DUHs and DERs out of the way and hang your “no shit” signs outside for Inspector Holmes.Okay, now given the gruntload of reviews/ratings this book has I know I’m not the f
Okay, I said it, and I will wait patiently while you get your DUHs and DERs out of the way and hang your “no shit” signs outside for Inspector Holmes.Okay, now given the gruntload of reviews/ratings this book has I know I’m not the first person to wag my chin about how amazing it is.
Still, I am going to chance coming off like that annoying dingleberry at the tail end of a huge porcelain party because I truly have a pile of love for this book.
If you haven't read this as an adult - pick it up today I think there's just one kind of folks. Folks.  I (along with millions of other kids) first read this in grade-school. And I (along with those millions) didn't really get the point.I remember thinking, Well... I already know discrimination is wrong. I don't get why I have to read a book about it... Oh Lordy, if I could go back in time...Rereading led to a (unsurprisingly) wholly different interpretation of this novel.  I am in awe of Harper
I (along with millions of other kids) first read this in grade-school.
Scout narrates the great and terrible tragedies of her life - namely the trial of Tom - an upstanding "colored" man accused of raping a white woman.
Much like Scout, I was simply too young to understand much of what was going on the first time through.
My entire life, I never truly understood why this was such a classic, why people read it over and over, and why this (of all books) is forced upon kids year after year.
Until I feared I would lose it, I never loved to read.
Maintaining the same values at court and home, he told his children Jem and Scout to hold their heads high as rougher days would be ahead; thus, he instilled a sense of courage in his children.
Then Scout had courage at school to stick up for her classmates and to hold her head high as the same classmates taunted her due to her father's involvement in the court case.
I believe that the courage exhibited by all these characters has made the town of Maycomb, Alabama stand the test of time and remain the timeless classic that it is.
Beautiful book.
The story is told by the six-year-old Jean Louise Finch.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و هشتم از ماه آوریل سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: کشتن مرغ مینا؛ نویسنده: هارپر لی؛ مترجم: فخرالدین میررمضانی، تهران، توس، 1370، در 378 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، امیرکبیر، 1390، در 414 ص؛ شابک: 9789640013816؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، علمی فرهنگی، 1393، در 378 ص؛ شابک: 978600121573؛مترجم دیگر: بابک تیموریان، تهران، ناس، 1390، در 504 ص، شابک: 9789649917733؛مترجم دیگر: روشنک ضرابی، تهران، انتشارات میلکان، 1394، در 360 ص، شابک: 9786007845196؛باور کردنی نیست، تا 28 دسامبر 2015 یا همان 8 دیماه 1395 هجری خورشیدی، تنها در گودریدز 3,128,155 نفر همین کتاب را ستاره باران کرده اند؛ نمیدانم چرا در برگردان عنوان کتاب، به جای بلبل، مرغ مینا را برگزیده اند، شاید مرغ مقلد هم بهتر باشد، چون همین پرنده نیز صدای پرندگان دیگر را تقلید میکند.
در سال 1962 میلادی نیز، «رابرت مولیگان» فیلمی با اقتباس از متن همین کتاب ساختند، و در همان سال ایشان هم توانستند، سه جایزه اسکار را از آن خود کنند.
In the course of 5 years, I’ve read this book nearly 17 times.
And yet, there comes a time when some people need to be put down – we must follow the call of our conscience then, and yet be kind to them in the process, as much as we can.Striving to follow this dictum, I have realized how difficult it is to be kind to others when I find I’m right.
“Until I feared I would lose it, I never loved to read.
20)I love this book and this idea of reading being like breathing.
I saw a Twilight Zone Episode once where the main character loved to read and only wanted to be left alone to do so.
Of course, I only needed readers, but when I ran across this quote, I thought about how much like breathing reading is for me.
320) I love the sad way this quote sounds.
It is clearly the thoughts of a child, for hadn’t Scout just given Boo his dignity as they were walking home?
I don't really know what to say.I think I loved this book, but for a reason beyond my understanding, it never hooked me, and it took me AGES to finish it!
And I loved the Boo Radley storyline, it left me in awe.This book surely deserves 5 solid stars, and I kinda feel bad for giving it 4 stars, but the thing is...
And can't tell you how much I loved the last chapters, (view spoiler)[the part were Scout stands in Boo Radley's house and realizes the way he sees everything almost made me cry (hide spoiler)].
And once you read about her and her family, you will know that she is not the only amazing person in that family (guess the apple doesn't fall far from the tree).I was able to tell in the beginning that the book started in the 30's once Dill mentioned that he saw Dracula in the theaters.
And when she wanted to write a letter to Dill in invisible ink just to drive him crazy, I almost ruined the book because I was drinking a Diet Pepsi at the time.I have a feeling that Harper Lee was just like Scout and have you noticed that all early 1900 female authors are tomboys?
I’ll be honest, I didn’t understand how important the message this book tried to give when I was a kid; it bored the crap out of me and I didn’t make it to the exceptional court scene.
Maybe same as the main character in this book, I didn’t truly understand the gravity of the situation yet when I was young.
Let’s just say I realized why this book became one of the most highly famous and well-received classics.One last thing, Atticus Finch is truly a role model to aspire to, as a father, a lawyer, and most of all, a human being; truly a well-written protagonist.
I’m not going to do my usual thing where I’d try to explain what I liked about this book.
Normally, I would try to convince you why you should read it.
Today I’m not going to do that.
Instead, I will simply say that I loved this book.
I loved its characters.
I loved its plot.
And I loved the eloquent way in which Harper Lee wrote it.
Her words are real and her story is truth.This book is one of the wisest, most finely crafted, pieces of prose fiction I have ever read.
Best book ever written? Best book ever written.
Scout and Jem (white), sons of Atticus.
Dill (white), friend of Jem and Scout.
Arthur "Boo" Radley (white), mysterious neighbour.
Mayella Ewell (white), victim of a sexual assault.
Bob Ewell (white), father of Mayella.
Scout e Jem, bianchi, figli di Atticus.
Dill, bianco, amico di Jem e Scout.
Bob Ewell, bianco, padre di Mayella.
Prendete tutti gli elementi elencati, aggiungete il razzismo di alcuni, l'ignoranza di altri, l'umanità di altri ancora, mescolate tutto ed otterrete il capolavoro di Harper Lee.Sponsorizzato finanche dall' ex-presidente degli USA Barack Obama, il messaggio del romanzo arriva forte e chiaro: fai la cosa giusta, a qualunque costo, con coraggio.Voto: 9
I think the hell not, good sir.And to be honest, after reading the whole book, I still don’t really care for the characters.
It’s nice that she tries to tackle racism and bring awareness to it or whatever, and I personally interpreted the message as something very important, but Harper Lee could not have written a book accurately educating about racism because she has no experience in it.
A book I expected to like and had a great message (as I interpreted it), but one I was ridiculously bored by.
Rereading this book as an adult made me realize how truly beautiful and wonderful it is. It will forever be one of my favorites.
"What would Atticus do?" is not just a meme; for eleven-year-old me it became a real consideration after I feigned an illness to cut school and stay home to finish To Kill a Mockingbird - while a decidedly non-Atticus-like move, choosing Harper Lee's book over sixth grade math was probably a wiser life choice.For my thoughts on the shameless money grab by the money-greedy publishers recently published first draft of the novel inexplicably (or read: cash grab) marketed as a sequel...
Ειναι ένας μπαμπάς γλυκός και αυστηρός με απόλυτη ελευθερία και μέτρο διδάσκει στα παιδιά του να αγαπούν και να σέβονται όλους τους ανθρώπους ανεξαιρέτως χρώματος ή κοινωνικής θέσης.
Αυτός ο μπαμπάς λοιπόν αναλαμβάνει να υπερασπιστεί στο δικαστήριο - παρά τις άσχημες αντιδράσεις της κοινωνίας- έναν νεγρο εργάτη που κατηγορείται πως βίασε μια λευκή περιθωριακή κοπέλα.
Παει το πρώτο κοτσυφακι.....Το δεύτερο κοτσυφακι ....της ιστορίας μας ειναι ο Μπού ένας ερημίτης γείτονας που ζει κλεισμένος στην μοναχικότητα του χρονια ολόκληρα και παίρνει τρομακτικές διαστάσεις η παρουσία του στα μάτια των μικρών μας ηρώων.
So I will only say that for me the beauty of this book lies in how Lee has so perfectly captured the time in the 1930's and the place Maycomb and the life in this small town and what it meant to be black then and there and how a young girl tries to make sense of what is happening around her .
did in not rereading TKAM but choosing to read Go Set a Watchman and judging it on its own for what it is .
The Blacks then feeling their oats would move in to the town and start demanding rights and power much to the detriment of the extremely exploitative and racist Whites.When Harper Lee wrote all this, in Go Set a Watchman her publishers were apparently horrified and got her to rewrite the book from the point of view of a decent man who felt racism was a great evil, we were all equal.
Some trivia about the book and movie...Finch was writer Harper Lee's mother's maiden name.Despite the novel winning the Pulitzer Prize, the studios were not interested in buying up the film rights as they deemed it lacking in action, there was no love story and the villain doesn't get a big comeuppance.
After seeing how well the character was realized in Lee's novel, however, he decided against it.Some images..Harper Lee on the right.http://more2read.com/?review=to-kill-a-mockingbird-by-harper-lee
Alabama in U.S.A., 1935 during the crippling bleak, Great Depression, Atticus Finch a widower, struggling lawyer and ultimate believer in justice for everybody, (a gentleman, if ever there was one) is raising two small children Scout, (Jean Louise) and Jem, (Jeremy) a typical American boy, he likes to have fun in the fictitious mostly quiet , small southern town of Maycomb.
Next door to the Finch's live the Radley family, a strange people that keep to themselves, particularly Boo, (Arthur) a legendary creepy, mysterious man , who is never seen, weird stories abound about him by the curious, neighborhood kids, they test their bravery, by how close they can come to Boo's house.
A friend of mine once commented that To Kill a Mockingbird was the most racist book he'd ever read.I agree with him.
If I had to sum up To Kill a Mockingbird in one sentence, this would be it: the poor helpless black man is lost until a saintly white man comes to his side to crusade for his cause.
Unfortunately, the damn darkie is so stupid that he goes and gets himself killed just when the white man figured he had another shot at clearing him.
Oh well, the white man tried his best, and for a negro too!
Giving one of the most acclaimed books of all time a 5 makes me feel all lovey-dovey.
There was a time when I didn't agree with most of the established literature.
The year it got its Pulitzer was a decade or two since the War. The likes of Herman Wouk (one of my favorite authors) were no longer on the scene.This was a sensitive topic.
It's high literature in the garb of normal words.
I loved this book so much.
I'll never read Go Set A Watchman, but the author has earned my undying respect.
What a title, what a book.
I think The Guardian said it best– 'To Kill a Mockingbird will never stop being a good book, and it will never stop inspiring good people'The story is told from the point of view of Scout (Jean-Louise Finch), a six year old girl, through various events that happen in the town of Maycomb and in particular, the court case of Tom Robinson as her father Atticus Finch acts as Tom’s defence lawyer.
To Kill a Mockingbird had been deemed so important that in 2006, British librarians ranked the book ahead of the Bible as one "every adult should read before they die".Above pointing the finger at racial and class issues, it’s a gripping story with great characters.
Thus it becomes crystal clear why this classic is a must for kids.
Surely it stands on an even shelf with the Harry Potter series; it's ripe with conventions that can be cracked open in the classroom, where the love for literature begins for most American children.
That being said, I cannot but smile at finally, at 28, having plowed through this-- a complicated and personal classic.
It has aged, however, & it is easy to see where the conventions are deposited as if "To Kill..." were a rough patchwork quilt of American Literature musts.
Our June classics book! Discussion on the blog Friday 6/26, in preparation for the sequel releasing in July. My re-read is on audio, with Sissy Spacek as narrator.
I picked it up again because I was curious about what my reaction would be to it now.The book follows three years in the life of Scout Finch, her brother Jem, their father Atticus, and their fictional town of Maycomb, Alabama, in the era of the Great Depression.
I feel like I had a million things I wanted to say about this book, but I can't remember half of what they were, mostly because the copy I had was from the library and I had to return it.
