https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2543196.Clearing_Weather
Anyone interested in sailing, shipbuilding, international trade, and politics, would find this a fascinating book.
I thought it is a really fun way to teach about the economic and political turmoil following the Revolutionary War. It shows the people's still conflicting loyalties, the uncertainty of the success of the new nation, the troubles of a too weak central government, and the economic ruin brought about by the war.
Meigs manage to teach all of that in a fairly interesting story format.
It was done very naturally in the flow of the story and didn’t interrupt the action.
It was a good adventure story.
This 1929 Newbery Honor book attempts to illustrate the influence of ships on the building of America during and after the American Revolution.
The story itself feels worn and outdated; the plot was predictable to me even as a child which makes the book feel like it takes longer to read than it actually does.
The language is modern; I said of Meigs' 1922 Newbery Honor book (The Windy Hill) that she reminded me of Mary Stewart in the way that she handles descriptions; that statement still applies with this book.
Like many books of this time, this story is disparaging toward Native Americans and Asians.
On her maiden voyage the Jocasta sets sail first to the West Indies, then she deviates from her plan to sail to Europe and the Mediterranean and instead sails around the Horn for the Northwest to trade for furs with the Indians then onward to China.
The Chinese are introduced first in a pirate attack and then in more hospitable quarters when trade begins.
The most racist parts of the books are two of the three color plates, one depicting leering, snarling natives, the other leering, snarling Chinese pirates.
4.5 stars.
It's an engaging adventure story of ship-building and sailing in the years immediately following the American Revolution that reveals quite a bit of the uncertainty and difficulties faced by normal people in New England at that time.
In fact, the book's tone is rather like reading a cross between Robinson Crusoe and the Hardy Boys.So there it is - Zero stars for being so blatantly patronizing to non-Caucasians; One star for having story elements that drive me nuts, and a plethora of continuity-breaking punctuation errors; 5 stars for being an engaging tale that has a good cultural reveal of the years following the revolution.
I still like her writing style, but I think it’s better suited for younger characters.
However, if I don’t fall for the characters and their plight, then the story is kind of a wash.
It falls in that "eh" range for me.Edit: I noticed some criticisms of racism and sexism against this book, and wanted to say I didn't get that feeling.
(Granted, I may have missed something while I was "eh"ing through.) I wouldn't call the book completely clear of sexism or racism, but Cornelia Meigs is pretty good at making her characters have opinions, and keeping the narrator tone neutral.
I thought it was a pretty good book.
Definitely full of adventure, but nothing too extraordinary.
I thought it was ridiculous how Nicholas wanted to deal 'fairly' with Darius by not using the book against him.
However, in today's world what Nicholas did is called blackmail and withholding evidence from the law.
I also thought this book did a good job at not being too racist when they had many chances, but the author didn't seem to quite understand some of the cultures she professed to.
Yes, disrespect is there, but not so much as it is in many books of the time.
Interesting? Yes. Sensitive to other cultures? Not in the slightest. And I occasionally felt like I'd read this story before, though I cannot think what book I am thinking of. Something where the people of the town pack up their nicest possessions (particularly the young women with portions of their dowries) to invest in a local merchant's venture. I thought maybe I had simply read this same book before, but none of the rest seems familiar. Guess I'll have to keep thinking and see if I can remember what book this one reminded me of.
Read the full review here: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...Clearing Weather tells the story of the years right after the Revolutionary War. Nicholas is in charge of his uncle’s failing business when he decides to build his own ship and set it off in search of riches. This is not a bad story; I found myself enjoying the plot in many places, but it’s full of racism and sexism. For that reason, I found this book unsalvageable.
A story of adversity at home and adventure abroad on the sea. Ship building leads to exploration on the sea of far off lands. Unfortunately there are certain stereotypes about native tribes and Chinese that we don't need to be perpetuating and not to mention a lack of female characters. I wouldn't recommend this book.
f7e5e610-5d59-448a-ae7e-bdc7fef78da5
1929 Newbery Honor book
