https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140075.All_Together_Dead
You know the worst thing about these books?
They're like cotton candy.
On face they look incredibly filling and satisfying but then you bite into them and the fluffy candy mass turns into so much sugar and you're just as hungry when you're finished as you were when you started.
Except now you're out of money and your mom wants you to ride the Ferris wheel with your little sister.I've devoured all seven of the Sookie books and now I want more, except there aren't any more.
Yet. No one should confuse these books for great literature, but they are sure as hell entertaining.
(B+) 76% | GoodNotes: With more scope and exposition, it’s a sort of locked-room mystery (not really) solved by speculation and conjecture.
OK, so I love the HBO series "True Blood" and wanted to learn more, so, like a fool, I went to Amazon.com and bought a specially priced box set of the first 7 books.
The author certainly has a great imagination, which is the foundation of great storytelling.But the main character, Sookie Stackhouse, telepathic waitress from Bon Temps, LA., is an unbearable, anti-feminist, hypocritical and just downright bitchy female who turned me off so entirely I prayed for her death at the hands of any demon/fairy/vampire/shifter/plain old human.There are themes in some of these books that set my teeth on edge: Sookie is raped (yes!
Snooze fest. The avalanche of characters and the painful descriptions of the wedding just came so ridiculous, and I had to skip many pages. I am not the biggest fan of Quinn -- so that could be my reluctance to this book. I just wish Sookie would go to Eric and stop fighting her feelings.
I quite enjoyed this book, although it did remind me a bit of ‘Living Dead in Dallas’ where Sookie is also asked to go with the vampires to use her telepathic abilities, and finds another telepath called Barry, who also shows up in this one.This book was a bit slow and heavy-going in places, but I still enjoyed it, and I liked the unexpected twist at the end, as I really didn’t see it coming!
(view spoiler)[ Who knew that the Fellowship would blow up the hotel, leaving loads of vampires burned or missing limbs?!
Shocking!
(hide spoiler)]7 out of 10["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I feel the need to find out where this is all going, but this book certainly felt like it was missing something that contributed to the earlier books' "unputdownability." Maybe it was Sookie and Bill's relationship, which I loved, that kept me wanting more.
Even though I knew it couldn't last through the entire 8 book series (so far, anyway), I have held out hope for their relationship.
The more I think about the later books in the series, the more Sookie frustrates me.
I think that Sookie was pissed at him for having the audacity to know what happened and still like her.
She also thinks about how Selah Pomphrey has been dating Bill for "weeks," but Selah has been dating bill since Book 5, and that book was set in late winter/early spring.
I'm not into the Sookie/Quinn relationship at all, and the descriptions of his "white teeth" are starting to grate on me.---I may be nearing the end of my tolerance for this series after reading the most gawdawful sex scene last night.
At one point, Sookie has a thought about how Quinn is looking at her body like a buffet and he doesn't know where to start.
My absolute favorite Sookie stackhouse to date.
A lot of stuff happens in this book, but towards the end the action is great and goes somewhere you weren't really sure Ms. Harris would take you.
Sookie travels to a Vampire Summit with Queen Sophie-Ann's entourage, which lends to some hilarious moments with different vamps and the fangbangers at their side.
Like I said before, there is a lot more action then in previous books which is just exciting.
Plus Quinn and Eric play for sookie's interest.
Charlaine Harris is building great stories one on top of the other and they are surely going to lead to something great.
None of the important characters are killed, but as a by-product of the events Sookie gets to hail a cab for the first time, which is pretty thrilling for her.
Sookie, given this unprecedented opportunity to ask any question about human or vampire life and experiences in the last century and a half, goes with the following: “Did you wear your hair up every day?” Apparently, yes, Pam did wear her hair up every day.
I have to say I really liked the Vampire Summit, and how Sookie helps and gets put into some danger.
Quinn the shifter is yummy and I liked that he seems to really be in lust with her and she with him.
Andddd then poof Erik comes into play and they end up getting closer than they were.
Sookie is starting to hear Vampire brains and that can be verrry dangerous for her if anyone finds out.
Although I love Sookie with Quinn..
I have my heart set that she will end up with Erik.
Best one in the series! Easy read, Eric comes center stage for sure. A Bill fan no longer am I.
If i pray every night, and hang around with humans, and leave the Weres alone, i'll be okay. Murder,court,law,lies,bombs,bloood... It would have been more help to me if he'd come ten minutes earlier... or not at all. Useless as always. Is Quinn supposed to be interesting and are we supposed to care about his relationship with Sookie? And i thought that her relationship with Bill was boring.I feel like the start wasn't THAT strong but i was really invested after like 100-150pages. It was a fun r

Soon after arrival, each and every party gets a phone call from the management of the hotel saying that there is an extra piece of luggage that belongs to them and they need to come down and pick it up.
I have a hard time wrapping my head around the fact that there is a sequel to it...So, Sookie is going to the Vampire Convention to assist the Queen because you know that all-powerful creatures that are hundreds of years old need the brain trust that is a 27 yr old redneck waitress from a podunk town to keep them safe.
The story was entertaining enough, even though you want to smack Sookie upside the head a lot.
Still very entertaining, but I was disappointed by her adding creatures from another dimension that could become invisible.
It was a bit too much for me.
The parts could have been handled by other supernatural creatures without going so far afield.
It went too far beyond the scope of the world she's created without a good reason.Also, the setup by the Fellowship was too transparent & unrealistic.
The security lapses were just too gross & the scheme was ludicrous.
I did like finding out more about Quinn & the other character development.
It wasn't a bad story, but certainly not one of her best.
Rating: 3.4* of fiveThe Publisher Says: Louisiana cocktail waitress Sookie Stackhouse has her hands full dealing with every sort of undead and paranormal creature imaginable.
And after being betrayed by her longtime vampire love, Sookie must not only deal with a new man in her life—the shapeshifter Quinn—but also contend with the long-planned vampire summit.The summit is a tense situation.
Sookie detecting another of her telepathic kind, and the major events of the nightmare religious cult the Fellowship of the Sun unfold?I suppose every series has a problem with the transitional tales that need telling.
All Together Dead is the seventh full-length novel in the Sookie Stackhouse series by popular American author, Charlaine Harris.
As well as preparing for imminent weddings, Sookie has to get a wardrobe together for the Vampire Summit to be held in Rhodes.
And of course, Sookie is the only witness to the murder of the Queen’s late husband, the King of Arkansas, Peter Threadgill.
Her testimony will be vital at the Queen’s murder trial.
We are getting into Bechdel test territory, as they are close to having conversations about something besides men and Bob the cat (an unfortunate man turned into a cat by Sookie’s friend Amelia, when trying some magic that she shouldn’t have been messing with).And if Sookie doesn’t get the vampire-employee-of-the-year award for her performance in this book, I want to know the reason why.
The undead had better acknowledge her courage and value in the next installment.I know that a lot of people see casual racism in the Sookie series, but Harris does tackle the prejudice issue in this novel, albeit the bias of the living against the undead and the vampires and werewolves against each other.
I also love the True Blood series that's based on this series of books.
They've changed the series so much from the book that I can read the books and still enjoy the HBO series.
I enjoy both and this book follows right along with the previous Sookie Stackhouse installments.
The only problem is that I keep blowing through the books at a rapid pace and everything around me is put on hold until I get finished.Have you watched the HBO series?
And read the books right on through without worry because after the first book the storyline between the HBO series and the books take different paths.
I haven't read this in a couple years, but I remember thinking it was my favorite since book 4, Dead to the World.
Eric is in it more too.
There's more Quinn in this one and Sookie meets another telepath, Barry the Bellboy.At the end of this one is a fantastic scene involving one of the Queen's children, Sookie, and Eric.
Sookie's bond with Eric grows at the end because (view spoiler)[there is another blood exchange (hide spoiler)].
That might have been my favorite scene in this one.
Once again, the Eric scenes are the best.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This book was a hit for me.
I love this series, even though it doesn't make me smarter or a better person for having read it.
And even though it's totally unbelievable and Sookie is nothing like me, and a little silly.In All Together Dead, she's heading to the Vampire summit, the Vampire Queen of Louisiana(that's right, Queen of Louisiana, see above paragraph)plans to use Sookie's telepathic abilities.
She and Quinn are hot and heavy and Eric and Sookie's relationship also moves to another level.
I'm over Bill!I'm still pulling for Sookie and Eric to end up together.
Planning on getting the next book ASAP!
Και αν το κομμάτι της ποιότητας μέσα μου μείνει scorched earth για πάντα?Κι αν όλα αυτά τα cringe με αναγκάσουν τελικά να κάνω μπότοξ?Κι αν πάω να ανοίξω κανα άλλο βιβλίο και δεν ανοίγει?Notreadathon18: Ένα βιβλίο που διαβάσατε στην τουαλέτα και μετά σκουπιστήκατε με αυτό
This book was a letdown after the run of Sookie books which I thoroughly enjoyed.
The bridal shower which even Sookie didn't enjoy was a big letdown.It was fun to see Barry Bellboy again when he showed up at the Summit with the Dallas contingent.
The various vampire royalty gushing about how glad they were to see someone and thinking how they wished somebody would come along and stake the person became too tedious to do more than skim.Once mayhem and murder broke out, it was an exciting read right up until the end.
I can't see how they wouldn't end up together, no matter that Quinn seems like a nice guy.
It's pretty tragic and I do hope he gets a happy ending with his love life, that is unless Harris decides to assassinate his character or something a la Bill, LOL.
Besides her interest in Sookie's love life, readers finally hear who Pam was before she turned and how she came to meet Eric.
I enjoyed their friendship and hope they can get closer together since in this book they ended with differing choices.
The way the explosion was written was just perfect, the scene played in my mind just like an action movie.
I'll definitely give Charlaine Harris credit, she knows how to write her battle and action scenes, in a way that's perfectly descriptive - not under or overly so.
I wish that Sookie hadn't taken so long to figure out the entire thing though, she sort of just kept it all locked up in her mind for ages - it frustrated the fuck out of me.
For those who can't stand it any longer, Sookie and Quinn finally have some quality time in the beginning.
Then her life goes back into the usual chaos she seems to thrive on, in this case a vampire summit during which A LOT of bad things happen and Sookie manages to entangle herself with her former beaus again.
Some old characters reveal a little more about themselves, in some cases too much (especially for Sookie) and there is retribution all around.
Will Sookie finally step out and get some much needed downtime from vampdom?
Will Sookie ever manage to keep a beautiful dress she really likes?!

How can someone be so willfully blind?Sookie's problems with the men in her life continue: Jason makes a commitment that may have disastrous consequences for his sister.
Circumstances lead Eric to forge an even tighter bond with Sookie than before, and Quinn's actions force her to rethink their relationship.
The vampire world is shaken to the core with the unforeseen deaths of several characters and Sookie rethinks her future with the supernaturals in her life.
All in all, an action packed addition to the series, and the twists and turns should make for interesting reading in the future.
In the aftermath of her disastrous wedding and Katrina, the Queen is facing a trial over the murder of her vampire husband, Peter Threadgill, and the dispute of his territory, Arkansas.Sookie soon finds herself in demand as well as slap-bang in the middle of more than one plot.
I enjoy all the little details as well, the descriptions of her homely routines and the like, because it grounds it and gives it a better sense of time and reality.There are a lot of men in Sookie's life and none of them seem like they could have a future with Sookie - but after this book I really noticed how Eric is slowly and carefully being groomed for the role.
Sookie continues to be a magnet for trouble! What a thrilling paranormal series!5 Together dead stars *****
Vampire politics, were politics, and an upsurge of human fanatic reaction to the undead are all in the forefront of this plot, making it arguably one of the most substantial of the Sookies to date.Sookie is called upon to join the party of the Queen of Louisiana for a vampire summit in the (fictional) city of Rhodes.
