https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72995.My_Life_and_Hard_Times
Before starting: I need something light, and I love memoirs, so this should be perfect.And it was!
A very short memoir that says it all.
Some writers don't have to talk and talk and talk, just a few short episodes, all humorous, tell about the essential elements of James Thurber's boyhood growing up in Columbus, Ohio - the flatlands.
Even though the chapters could be seen as short stories, they are not!
They are true episodes in this humorist's life.
So few words, but they say it all and they say it with humor.
I moved here from Boston when I was ten, and a year or two later, I was flipping through my anthology textbook for my Literature class and found a short story written by James Thurber.
It was absolutely hilarious, so I went to the library and checked to see if he had written any actual books.
This popped right up so I borrowed it and took it home to read.This short 'autobiography' is dry, witty, self-deprecating and interesting, but for me, it was a lesson in how to be Midwestern.
I remember having to read "The Dog That Bit People" in class during my sophomore year of high school.
"The Night the Ghost Got In" and "The Dog That Bit People" are wonderful, and the episode in "More Alarms At Night" where his dad "threatened to get Buck" is laugh-out-loud hilarious.
I love the characters, as well.
Thurber's grandfather, a Civil War veteran, steals the book, and the Get-Ready Man is one of my favorites.I don't know what else to say about this book, except that I love it.
probably the funniest (in a wryly funny, self-depricating, midwestern sort of way) thing ever written in the english language, and the cartoon illustrations are even better.
Δεύτερο βιβλίο του Τζέιμς Θέρμπερ που διαβάζω, μετά το παραμύθι φαντασίας για παιδιά "Το άσπρο ελάφι" που διάβασα πέρυσι.
Μπορεί να μην ξεράθηκα στο γέλιο -εκτός από δυο-τρεις στιγμές-, όμως καθ'όλη την διάρκεια της ανάγνωσης του μικρού αυτού βιβλίου ήμουν κατά κάποιο τρόπο με το χαμόγελο στα χείλη.
Πέρασα πολύ ευχάριστα την ώρα μου, έστω και αν δεν κράτησε πολύ.
Συμπάθησα τον συγγραφέα και την, κατά τα φαινόμενα, παράξενη οικογένειά του.
Επίσης μου άρεσε ιδιαίτερα ο τρόπος γραφής του Θέρμπερ, καθώς και το όλο στιλ αφήγησης των αναμνήσεών του.
I find the disparaging comments from twenty-somethings about Thurber's "My Life and Hard Times" amusing. So would Thurber, because he could always use another philistine foil for his smart protagonist. If you find this material to be too dated you should get off Facebook long enough to have real interactions with real people, then you'd appreciate Thurber's wickedly understated and subtle wit. If you don't get it, it's not because the material isn't funny. It's because you don't get it. Get it?
A humourous book, but only mildly so. I expected much more from the author of The Secret Life of Walter Mitty. However, these quirky reminiscences are enjoyable, if only for Thurber's inimitable style.Aristotle said: "The world is a tragedy to those who feel, and a comedy to those who think." Seeing the past through the wrong side of the telescope, Thurber is is able to invest apparently distressing events with the patina of humour which brings out his delightfully eccentric family (including himself) into focus. Read it, and remember similar "hard times" from your childhood...
Do not read this book if you share a bed with someone and they are asleep.
I can appreciate his talent, but from an enjoyment standpoint I just need to stick to later, humorous biographies written by people that are still alive and dwelling in current times.
Even reading Garrison Keillor's Lake Wobegon Days is pushing it.My Life and Hard Times is a very short, little book telling funny little stories from James Thurber's childhood, teenage, and college years.
Although the book is only 106 pages long, I would definitely recommend picking up a more modern humorous biography if you're just looking for light and funny entertainment.
short and sweet, I read it all in one sitting! the humor still felt fresh and the stories didn't show their age at all aside from a few references to now unknown celebrities of the time. illustrations were great aside from a few more 'dated' ones incidental of the time period i suppose.
While the world knows that Charles Dickens, Ernest Hemingway, and the Bronte sisters wrote Literature, hardly anyone who hasn't read Thurber recognizes the name.
I can drive my family crazy by giggling out loud while I'm reading him.
I am incapable of reading this collection (his best, in my opinion) out loud, because I burst out laughing at inopportune moments.
It's clear, concise writing at its best, and is responsible for haunting me with the story of his grandfather, horse-breaker extraordinaire, trying to break the car to his will, and escaping with it to the park one day, where they came across him, driving it in tight circles and trying to bend it to his will.
Is this book funnier than Steven Colbert? Yes, it is. Is it funnier than your mom? Yes, it is. Is it funnier than Samuel Beckett? Believe it or not, YES IT IS! Is it funnier than Spiro Agnew? Trick question! Spiro Agnew is not funny. This is actually the funniest book ever. You won't believe that it was first published in 1933. 1933 was not generally considered a funny year, but this book is absolutely hilarious. It's a must read! Check it out!
Now, having read the entire book, I know that his The Dog That Bit People and More Alarms at Night follow similarly and equally hilarious lines.James Thurber’s stories are based upon his own experiences and so reflect not merely the funny, but also the sad and regrettable.
Its adventure caused my mother to throw a shoe through a window of the house next door and ended up with my grandfather shooting a patrolman.
Thurber and the Wide Sargasso SeaAs I try to write about Thurber, with his My Life and Hard Times and The Wide Sargasso sea by Jean Rhys, I think that I should change my reading strategy.At this stage, I try to read all that the great books on the top 100-150 lists of books given by The Modern Library, TIME, The Guardian, Friendswood and eventually Le Monde.
Yes, it is somewhat dated; Thurber's fluid prose isn't what some young people are used to reading today.
Since Thurber skewers the white maids, and, indeed, many of his family members just as thoroughly, I can accept Vashti.
We've seen situations and people like this.And--I've read this book more than three times, and I still smile or laugh every time.
And, especially, Thurber's experiences in college and the dog who saw ghosts.I think this book would not remain half so funny if Thurber were not, deep down, so serious: so clear-eyed and compassionate about his crazy family and his own foibles.
So he bought me a subscription to The New Yorker.If I didn't dislike the old man so much, I’d feel bad about wasting his money.
My idea of culture was the next Christian Slater movie, or the newest Babysitter’s Club book.So all these years later, it shouldn't be a surprise that I didn't enjoy Thurber’s little autobiography.
While my culture quotient has gone up, and I can appreciate a smart joke, I simply fail to see what was amusing about the various anecdotes about Thurber’s childhood.
I’m certain most of my dislike for this book is simply a matter of my own taste (or lack thereof), so read and enjoy.
What a fun and fast read this one is!
Of course, it's really dated, but if you don't mind that Thurber's sense of humor just keeps you moving on through these very funny stories of his family life.
You can just see the characters in action - the father having the bed fall on him, the little brother acting up, the mother being a crazy woman, and more.
Very funny!I'd recommend this one to anyone who likes humor, and who enjoys James Thurber.
I'm moving on to the next one of his books that I found at a wonderful used book store in Galena, Illinois.
Here's Muggs, a choleric airedale that lived with the Thurbers:His expression captures well how I feel about the other reviews on here, people raving about Thurber's golden comedic genius, amazing humor. These vignettes drew some chuckles out of me here and there. That's it.The prologue, preface, afterword, "about the author", and everything else under the sun that sandwich this light 80+pp autobiography (covering the author's first 24 year) does present an endearing personality.I googled some of Thurber's New Yorker cartoons, love 'em.
Yes, yes, yes! This book was great! Everyone needs to read it right now. I laughed like crazy.This is James Thurber's memoir - it's a collection of 10 stories from his childhood/youth. It's only about a hundred pages long, so I was hoping I'd be able to read the whole thing whil waiting in line at the bookstore where I was doing my Christmas shopping. But the lines were actually moving pretty fast, so I had to buy it.This is a book that would be fun to read aloud.
I actually have the fifth printing of the 1961 Bantam Classic edition, but I don't know how to get that information into the system if it's not already there.James Thurber has a gift with words. He always knows when to add a particular detail and when to add a comment on the events he's narrating. This collection of stories leads me to believe that the author grew up in a uproariously crazy household; in fact, he could have lived a commonplace life, but his telling of it is exquisite.
Let's be clear - this is a book from another age. You can smell the horses in the street and hear the tobacco juice hitting the spittoons, when peoples' height was compared to standing corn. It has dialect humor with African-American servants in one brief passage. But it is an entertaining exhibition of style with great sentences on every page. "He gazed at me a long time as if I were a slot machine into which he had, without results, dropped a nickel." Wonderful, and very funny.
I'd forgotten how much I love James Thurber. He's an ideal antidote for stress. As a testament to that:This morning during a break in some crown work, the dentist returned to find me reading and laughing so hard that I snorted. How often does that happen at the dentists - without gas?
4.5 stars - Deducted 1/2 star for being too short. Otherwise an excellent example of midcentury, midwestern humor excellently written.Slightly wordier review: http://jenn.booklikes.com/post/125465...
Brillance comes in small packages. James Thurber packs a lot of funny and absurdity in a tiny book that you should definitely read.
Not that funny and kind of racist.
Loved it!
Good, easy-to-read book.
I don't really care for the illustrations but the anecdotes included throughout the book are endearing.
The narrative style is quaint and successful in being funny.The chapter about the day the dam broke was especially inspired.
So was the chapter on his memories of Ohio State University:"I was mediocre at drill, certainly-- that is, until my senior year.
By that time I had drilled longer than anybody else in the Western Conference, having failed at military at the end of each preceding year so that I had to do it all over again.
I was the only senior still in uniform.
My dad read this book aloud to us several times over as I grew up.
Even now when I read it myself I hear his voice narrating in my head.
It's a wonderfully humorous book.
Hands down the best story is "The Night the Bed Fell on Father." I think it's his universal appeal showing that sometimes the best stories come from our own families, if we simply take the time to write them down.
I think I'm going to start doing that for my own family so we have a collection of the moments all of us tell again and again when we're all together.
His aunt threw shoes down the stairs every night to scare potential burglars. His mother told her sons they better not “drive all over town with no gasoline.” His father had nightmares that he was being chased by President Cleveland. The best humor comes from real life. James Thurber’s memoir about young adulthood in the early 1900s Ohio made me laugh out loud several times.
I have always enjoyed James Thurber and had a particular soft spot for his work.
My grandparents took the New Yorker when I was growing up and I would read it when I came over.
I loved the Thurber cartoons.
As a teenager, I read a book of Thurber's letters to his friends and family which made me like him even more.
This was another book which I picked up on sale at the Strand in NY, where I just visited.
The Strand is on Broadway and 12th near Union Sq, and all bibliophiles should treat themselves to a visit if in New York.
