https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10176119-harrison-bergeron
A rather stinging, unsettling account of a likely future where absolute equality doesn’t naturally translate into celebrations until the constructs establishing it, are also ensured to be without prejudice. Ouch, did I say too much? Rejoice in this much-in-love couple from that land then.
This short story takes about 5 minutes to read and it is absolutely worth it.
It is set in a society where, in an effort to make everyone equal, anyone who is above average in any respect is given mechanisms or hindrances by the government to suppress whatever it is they can do.
The story focuses on a couple and their son, Harrison, who excels at nearly everything and, as such, is covered with more hindrances than any other citizen.
At the risk of this review taking you longer to read than the story, I'll stop there.
Go read it at http://www.tnellen.com/cybereng/harri....
Harrison Bergeron by Kurt Vonnegut is a short fiction dystopian vision that leaves the reader thinking long after the short prose is over. One of the great things about Vonnegut’s short fiction is that he is able to tightly wind a story and never meanders off on tangent (even though those wanderings are often entertaining in his novels). Bergereon is the alpha male amidst a society of forced mediocrity. Best line in the story, when asked if he would be a good whatever, the answer, “as good as anyone else”.
The story is about an imaginary world, where everyone is forced to be equal, in every conceivable way, often through the use of handicaps.
Handicaps are ways by which excellence is brought down to mediocrity, and voilà, people are equal.Stories like this truly scare me, not merely because of the unimaginable horrors it portrays but mostly because in a world that is so full of competition, what if people were to get tired of it and deem mediocrity to be the rule of law?
For god knows how long have I felt awed by the world Orwell imagined 1984 to be.
In spite of the dominance of Orwell and presence of Fahrenheit 451 on the similar lines, Vonnegut is able to deliver the message safely and eloquently.
The story is set in the future when 'Equality' is the norm and 'Competition' in any sense is firmly punished.
People are forced to wear masks to cultivate equality among the ugly and the beautiful.
The story gravely shows the dilemma and confusion of his parents who have lived in this world for too long to take notice.
"إنه عام 2081، وأخيراً الجميع متساوون. ليس الجميع متساوون أمام الله والقانون فحسب، بل إنهم متساوون في كل شيء؛ فلا أحد أذكى من أحد، ولا أحد أجمل من أحد، ولا أحد أقوى أو أسرع من أحد." دوستوبيا من نوع آخر. الجميع متساوون، لا مكان للذكاء، لا مكان للجمال، لا مكان للحب، لا مكان للتميّز. بئس هذه المساواة المخيفة.نلاحظ مرة أخرى بأن الحُب يشكّل صفعة قوية في وجه الأنظمة القمعية.  قصة مخيفة حقاً!.كل الشكر والتقدير والحب للمترجم أحمد شاهين الذي قام بترجمة وتوفير هذه القصة للقراء بلا مقابل.
Chilling.I keep thinking of all the handicaps we are saddled with by society. The worse, the kicking yourself in the ass bit, is that most of the handicaps are there by our own choice, albeit unconciously. Society is devious like that.
And that’s the point actually: that having homeless people is pretty much the fault of having a society in the first place – like an unpleasant side-effect – because having a society means that you can purchase land (what a notion!) and soon be left with no place to build a house or make a little home.In other words, poor people today are many times worse off than they would be without a civilization (compared to everyone else – the definition of wealth), while rich people today are many times richer than they would be without the modern civilization.So you tell me, to whom falls the responsibility of maintaining civilization, of paying dues for its existence, of feeding the poor, if not those among us who benefit the most?
This is a short story, a dystopian world with the same ultimate goal as in the Uglies series.
However, this one succeeded in frightening me in a way that Uglies never did.
The actual plot of the story wasn't really the point, nor was it especially good.
Harrison was taken away by the government as punishment for being completely awesome (none of their handicaps ever worked on him).
To me the plot wasn't really the true focus of the story, it was a means to an end-- showing how terrible the world would be if no one was allowed to be better than anyone else.
الفكرة عبقرية، مذهلة بكل المقاييس!راودتني فكرة مشابهة مرة، حتى تكون المحصلة أنه في اختلافنا رحمة على الحقيقة.شكرًا للمترجم شكرًا جزيلاً للمجهود وتوفيرها بلا جهد للقارئ. :))
The objective is to erase all traces of individuality.Harrison Bergeron is not only smarter that most, but he's also very strong and handsome....so he gets an abundance of handicaps.
Ordinarily, there was a certain symmetry, a military neatness to the handicaps issued to strong people, but Harrison looked like a walking junkyard.
قصة قصيرة لطيفة. وهي من نوع الديستوبياعرفت عنها من كتاب العدالة : ما الجدير ان يعمل به؟للكاتب مايكل ساندل فقررت أن أترجمها والترجمة جاهزة الآن وتقع في 8 صفحات فقط ولكنها تستحق القراء

Extremely dark, extremely humorous, extremely sarcastic, extremely beautiful and extremely tragic. Oh I could worship Vonnegut for producing this absurdly inspirational and witty dystopian short story! Hahaha! 'Harrison Bergeron' is a mind-blowing satire on the literal notion of equality. In the short story Vonnegut envisions a world in which physical and mental defects are 'given' to everyone to make them equal to everyone else. How does that work? Read the story to find out!
damn what a story!!smol review to come

Took me mere minutes to read, but my God, Vonnegut does it again. A world where everybody is equal, hauntingly so. If you're beautiful, you wear a mask, the more beautiful you are, the uglier the mask. And God forbid, you're actually intelligent. If you are, there are sporadic bursts of noise emission from little mechanical devices that should be enough to scatter your thoughts. Other than that, there are handicap bags. The more capable you are, the heavier your bags.Read online here: Harrison BergeronApparently also a TV Movie: Kurt Vonnegut's Harrison Bergeron

Introducing the most classic dystopian of all time: "Harrison Bergeron". A satirical and science-fiction short story is written by Kurt Vonnegut (the best among the quartet Joseph Heller; Kurt Vonnegut; George Orwell; and Douglas Adams). First published in October 1961, by using three symbols: handicap, birdshot and target, Vonnegut successfully depicted an idea where complete equality is impossible. The book extremely criticizes the political theorem of controlling the people's mind. Now, slightly going through pages, you soon find familiar references and recall it from else where...I will pick my favorite:
  
    All men are created equal.
A good dystopian short story in a world where equality is above everything. To obtain it, people are given disabilities. I found the society frightening, even if its goal was good, and the characters were creepy, reminding me people in Fahrenheit 451. A nice and interesting read.
Reads like something a 12 year-old Ann Coulter would have written. It's like Vonnegut was channeling Ayn Rand.
When equality is taken to an absurd level. Vonnegut's satirical take on egalitarianism.
3.5* It's 2081. Everybody is finally equal in society.I realized I actually read this before in school. I know it's a short story, but I feel like this could of been really awesome if it was just fleshed out more by being longer.edit: Lowered to 3 stars. The ending was anticlimactic and it's only 9 pages so not much happened that was really awesome.
And then, in an explosion of joy and grace, into the air they sprang! Not only were the laws of the land abandoned, but the law of gravity and the laws of motion as well. They reeled, whirled, swiveled, flounced, capered, gamboled, and spun. They leaped like deer on the moon. WHITE SWAN, Leonid AfremovOil on Canvas, 24" x 30" (60cm x 75cm)__________________________________After reading this short story: Did you know that Kurt Vonnegut was a socialist?
Vonnegut's "Harrison Bergeron" -- which I hereby nominate for Best SF Short-short Ever. And the *only* SF story ever to grace the op-ed page of the Wall Street Journal!Do reread it if its been awhile. And if you somehow missed it: one of Vonnegut's best. Hell, one of English literature's best. Hot stuff."It was then that Diana Moon Glampers, the Handicapper General, came into the studio with a double-barreled ten-gauge shotgun. ..."http://www.tnellen.com/cybereng/harri... -- also available in French & Hindi translations.
The idea was great but the story was ridiculous to be honest.It didn't deliver the idea well and was illogical at times.
This was everything i never thought I would find in a short story.
I admit I have a high prejudice against short stories.
You have to be a master of fiction to satisfy a reader in 15 pages, specially now in the times of trilogies, series, sextologies, octologies, and so on.This one delivers.
Is simple, to the point and jarring.
It left me thinking, wanting to re read it immediately (and doing it) and in awe about how such short story in such simple language can convey such a complicated message.Will definitely be reading more Vonnegut!
If you like Scyfi, specially dystopian, you should too.
Wow, this one was really short (only six pages!) but it packed a punch. The ideas it presented were really unique and quite scary once delve into. One sentence that really stood out to me and was the underlying theme of the short story was this: “The minute people start cheating on laws, what do you think happens to society?”All in all, I was a really good read and I’d highly recommend it because it’s incredibly short yet really thought provoking. 3.5 stars.
In his short story, Harrison Bergeron, Vonnegut imagines a society that sacrifices freedom for equality.
What Vonnegut ignores is that no one actually proposes the peculiar kind of "equality" explored in Harrison Bergeron.
Moreover, the story's anti-meritocratic dystopia is not the logical conclusion of any kind of egalitarianism presently advanced.Socialist though he may have been, it comes as little surprise that Cold War era Vonnegut penned a tale that could have been cribbed from William F.
But given its reactionary (not to mention cartoonish) premise, Harrison Bergeron defies actual meritocracy as well as common sense.
April for instance, still drove people crazy by not being springtime." This is my first official Vonnegut story read for class.
It is in simple terms an extremely abridged version of the type of universe that Fahrenheit 451 exists in.
But this story differs from F-451.
While Bradbury's dystopia was an extreme regulation and limiting of information and ideas, Vonnegut's dystopia limited you physically as well as mentally.
'You can say that again,' said George.
'Gee-' said Hazel, 'I could tell that one was a doozy.'"
'Gee-' said Hazel, 'I could tell that one was a doozy.'"
