https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93731.Princess_in_Pink
:')
"Instead of being wakened to the sound of birdsong, like princesses in books, I was wakened to the sound of Rommel shrieking as Fat Louie beat him senseless for getting into his bowl of Fancy Feast." Fun as always.The Princess Diaries always make me feel better so I'm usually reading them when I'm kind of sad or depressed.Like this whole week.Today was my first day of senior year of high school and it was awful.The new school principal changed most of my professors.She also made a new behavior/
Fun as always.The Princess Diaries always make me feel better so I'm usually reading them when I'm kind of sad or depressed.Like this whole week.Today was my first day of senior year of high school and it was awful.The new school principal changed most of my professors.She also made a new behavior/dressing codex & stuff like that.Ugh,can this week get any worse?Thankfully,this book lightened my mood.However,both Mia and Lilly were a bit annoying sometimes so I'm giving this book 4 stars.Can't wait to read the next one.Favourite quotes:"I only invited Michael to both the dinner and the party.Everyone else,including Lilly, is just invited to the party.
Mia was insufferable in this one but I still love this series SO MUCH. Luckily Michael was perfect as per usual.
I quite enjoyed the drama of Mia and her Grandmere.The fact that I dislike in the story is that Mia had taken a big deal in attending to the prom.Other than that I enjoyed the book as usual.
Eu não sei o que acontece: eu gosto da série, mas a Mia é tão imatura, tão problemática. Tem muitas frases e atitudes dela que me incomodaram nesse livro e eu ainda tenho esperanças dela amadurecer e crescer como personagem.
Estou em dúvida ainda se 3.5 ou 4.Nesse livro a Mia está menos pentelha que no último e ADOREI ver ela batendo de frente com a Lilly, que convenhamos é a pior amiga da face da Terra.
O problema é q mais uma vez a gente passou um bom tempo com a Mia achando isso e aquilo e surtando, ao invés de se posicionar.
A gente pensa q dps do q ela aprendeu no último livro isso não ia acontecer tanto mais.
Gostaria tanto de ver ela amadurecendo como pessoa e no relacionamento tbm...
This one was cute. Mia was a bit melodramatic about the prom but that's Mia. lol If it weren't for Michael, I might not be as patient with her but I have to remember she's still a freshman even though we are 5 books in. These books are so cute and adorable, can't wait to read the next one :)
3 starsMia's neurosis, while entertaining, is starting to rub me the wrong way ((view spoiler)[Yeah I get this was written 15 years ago but still let's not poke fun at disabilities, k? (hide spoiler)]). Also, 5 books to get through one year in the story is a bit much. I'm glad the others coming up are a bit more spread out.But honestly, when it comes down to it, the real reason I'm here for this is to read Royal Wedding =D
I get that they’re fourteen/fifteen year old girls, but both of them need a good swift kick in the pants to reality.To be fair though, I did enjoy Princess in Pink a lot more than I remembered.I had some nice things going for it.For one, it had an actual plot (unlike Princess in Waiting) and their was some slight character development in this book.I think the best thing about this one was Michael.
In this book, we don’t see those entertaining quirks since she’s mostly sticking her throat down some guy’s throat.Add to it, that Mia is sort of slut slamming her friend at the end with this little gem:Tina just called.
But the big problem is: Michael doesn’t want anything to do with prom.Then there’s Grandmere who fires a busboy after something happens to her pet pooch.
Wait till you hear Mia’s moms exciting baby news!After a while, you’d think I’ll get tired of reading Princess Diaries.
My own sons even commented about my passion for reading this series.
I don’t care much anymore if she’s too smitten with her boyfriend or too absorbed in her royal duties.
But that’s exactly what I want in a princess.
Mia and her cohorts make the Princess Diaries more exciting and exhilarating to read!
And Mia wants to go.Even though she sees that she's lucky and most of her life is, at least for a moment, going well, she is pining for a chance to go to the Prom with her boyfriend.
And while this may seem silly, I think it also rings true.Mia's grandmother, as usual, causes problems for her, unintentionally perhaps in this case, but still, the repercussions, while funny, also move the story along.I do have some trouble wondering why Mia continues to be friends with Lilly, who has in general been a bad friend, but in this book, takes that to a whole new level.
Didn't much care for how she behaved, but hopefully in future books, she will do better toward Mia. Or Mia finds a new a better friend.
Ack, this was dreadful. I don't suppose it helps that I read it right after Pride and Prejudice, but even so. I know it's meant for children, but the previous four weren't this bad.
just read the other reviews. i'm tired of typing. and trying to spell things correctly.
Also helps that when Anne Hathaway played Mia she wasn't fucking whiny all the god damn time.I have no idea how I even got through this book but I'm having a feeling that I will need a bottle of wine while I read every other book in this series.
I liked Mia in the first book but now she's just so annoying.
So, Mia whines a lot about going to prom in Princess in Pink and I don't understand why!
This whole book was annoying.
I don't even know how many times I wanted to throw this book or I rolled my eyes.
Because I know now what it is like to see all of your hopes and dreams crushed beneath the soulless heel of despair." Mia. Oh my god.
It's prom.
You will have more chances to go to prom.
This book reminds me of what it would maybe be like to go back and read my own high school diaries, except less embarrassing.
And this book is really embarrassing.
Granted, Mia is fairly insufferable too from time to time, but Lilly is constantly belittling her.
How are they still friends?????????????Also, Mia, please re-read Jane Eyre.
She told Mia that her vegetarian diet was messing with her brain and she was going nuts and when Mia ranted about her life’s problems Lily said LIKE A BOSS,” You forgot to complain about your grandmother.”I think at this point it is totally useless to repeat what I have already said about a thousand times already.
Like I said, the dumber it gets the more determined I become to finish this series.The whole Boris/Lily thing was actually interesting.
Mia’s writing got no further than the school menu, Rocky Thermopolis-Gianini was born, Tina and Boris got together and of course, Mia got to go to prom.
I remember being 13 and relating to every single word that was written in these books and feeling as though they were /my/ diaries and not Mia's.
I view it as a window into the mind of the pretty oblivious and ignorant 15 year old that I used to be and it makes me all the more excited to continue with my re-read and to be reminded of how Mia grows up.
EDIT: However, these covers are UGLY AS HECK, I'm glad my books have the old cartoon drawing of Mia and Fat Louie on the cover.
In this book, Princess Mia is obsessed with going to the prom. I swear, if I read the word 'prom' again, it will be too soon. However! In this book, Mia also mentions her Buffy the Vampire Slayer collectible action figure 'Fiesta Giles'. So I still love her. (I googled and Fiesta Giles is indeed a REAL ACTION FIGURE currently retailing for $62.99)
5*i’ve read this book more times then i can count over the last 7/8 year and this alway holds such a special place in my heart
But still, I feel that these 2 will be together for a long long time to come, they are truly a great match, and I hope that Meg Cabot won't shy away from further topics, as I feel that it is what makes this series so great.
That she dares to talk about stuff like this, and it also makes Mia seem more realistic.
She should see that she is only hurting people, that she is only being a bitch.The last thing that I want to address in my review is Lily.
For five books now, Mia's been complaining about how she's such a freak, but continues to scorn others and write them off as...
And we're supposed to like her why?What got to me the most was this little fear she had halfway through the "story" about whether or not she might have Aspergers syndrome.
I know many people with Aspergers and they're all lovely - and in my view, just like ordinary people.
I might have this syndrome thingy, I'm such a freak!" and I just thought, no.
That is not how you talk about Aspergers syndrome.
Mia really, really, really, REALLY wants to go to prom with Michael.
Essentially, this book is about Mia wanting to go to prom with Michael, and Lilly cheating on her boyfriend initially with a busboy that Grandmere got fired, creating a city-wide strike, and eventually breaking up with Boris, who ends up dumping a globe on his head to try to get her back, but then he ends up with Tina, so that's okay.
Mia does everything that Lilly wants her to do.
And she essentially wants to raise him to be Michael, except prom loving.
It’s time to get some perspective, Mia. It really peeved me to see how obsessed she was with the prom.
I mean, the word “prom” is mentioned a whopping 287 times in the book!
Truly, this book is the first one in the series that took me so long to finish.
I just didn’t care for Mia’s obsession with Michael’s senior prom and the recurring issue of Lilly protesting for Jangbu Pinasa getting fired because of something Mia’s grandmother did in a restaurant during Mia’s birthday dinner.
Please, Mia. Please just grow up now.
At A GlanceGenre: Young Adult; RomanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsessive?: Obsessive.
Cliff Hanger: eh.Rating: 3.5 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  7Plot:  7Characters: 5World Building: 6Flow:  7Series Congruity: 7Writing: 7Ending: 7Total: 6In DeptBest Part: I'm not sure.Worst Part: Mia is getting on my last nerve.
Thoughts Had: About over this; STOP IT; Holy crap.
ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: eh.Short Review: Okay i am now 98% pissed off at Mia. I am so over hearing about stupid Micheal and shiz.
Please, you're freaking 15.
Dumb the college boyfriend and find someone who is your age and not "demanding" sex from you.
Review in GIF Form:
A re-read for the read-along with Alina :)It's my first time re-reading these books since I read them as a teenager and it's interesting to see how differently I react to them.
However, I have to say that I definitely don't like the series as much as I used to and this book has been the worst so far.I don't like how Meg Cabot mentioned Asperger's syndrome here.
Apart from that, Mia was even more irritating than before and I don't even know what to say about Lilly.
This book is so much worse than previous one. Mia has terribly low self-esteem. She constantly calls herself a freak. What kind of message this books tells to teenagers? Moreover, she repeats a few times that life is not worth living without her boyfriend. And she again moans the whole book. Only this time about the prom. What is the big deal about this prom? Wait... I have a better question. How someone can be so incredibly immature? She thinks and behaves like a small child. Someone so immature is not supposed to be in a relationships.
Is the prom seriously the end-all be-all of high school stories? Mia kept whining on and on about Michael not wanting to go. Guess what, Mia? You're only a freshman! You can go when you're a senior. But I do have to admit an Empire State Building prom would be completely amazing. And might I mention how terrible of a friend Lily is? She's the worst.
I liked this one, but Mia was kind of a pain in the ass. All she wanted was to go to the prom. I mean, not all teens are like that. I sure as hell wasn't. Michael was perfect, as per usual. He is honestly the ideal.
I love these books & am reading them all from the library. Will Mia go to the prom with Michael & will her heavily pregnant mother embaress her by telling everyone about how often she has to pee?
This book plot was Mia trying to get Michael to go to prom with her. It was kind of like her ranting throughout the book by page 200 it was getting old. Still somewhat funny
