https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106069.Batman
Batman: Me:What? 3 stars is good! It was way better than sucky bookBatman: Me:For reals Bats? Are we going to go there? This book had some draggy parts that bored me, but it did have Poison Ivy, The Riddler, The Joker, Catwoman and The Scarecrow..so it had some good stuff...but what the hell was with Soloman Grundy? He had no place in the frigging book.  Plus the art made you look hot.Batman: Me:Now you are gonna grope me? Me:I could go for that. Batman:  *image removed-censored* Me:Ok weirdo...
Batman:
  Me:What? 3 stars is good! It was way better than sucky bookBatman:
  Me:For reals Bats? Are we going to go there? This book had some draggy parts that bored me, but it did have Poison Ivy, The Riddler, The Joker, Catwoman and The Scarecrow..so it had some good stuff...but what the hell was with Soloman Grundy? He had no place in the frigging book.  Plus the art made you look hot.Batman:
  Me:Now you are gonna grope me?
  Me:I could go for that.
  Batman:
  
  *image removed-censored*
  Me:Ok weirdo...Are you really my husband in disguise?
If I met anyone that had never read a Batman book, this is probably the one I would recommend.
This is the quintessential Batman story.
The volume revolves around mobsters being murdered on each holiday and takes place early in Batman’s career.
Dent along with Captain Gordon and Bats (puts “Detective” back in DC comics) attempt to figure out who’s the killer.It features most of Batman’s rogue’s gallery (where the heck did Solomon Grundy come from?) before they went super-mega villain.
In this respect, it shares the same vibe as Batman: The Animated Series - relatively simple stories sans other superheroes, aliens, Omega Sanctions, etc.
It's a classic Batman story and belongs among the greatest like Batman Year One, The Dark Knight Returns, and The Killing Joke.
It definitely draws from Frank Miller's Batman Year One with its sense of noir, crime drama, mystery, and the addition of light horror.
What's most fascinating and tragic is to watch Bats, Gordon, and Dent affected and irrevocably changed by Holiday and the destructive mafia war.Like Loeb's writing, Tim Sale's artwork here is the best I've ever seen.
It's also one of the subtlest, a sort of cousin to Batman Year One, with the addition of mystery and some horror.
Comic books often deal with extremes; they deal with the extremely good and the extremely bad, highlighting the struggle between two opposites on the morality scale.
One wishes to wreak havoc, hurt people and gain some form of gratification.
The two are diametrically opposed, though sometimes in order to achieve the most ultimate form of good (or evil) one needs step into the opposite camp to reach their goals.
Batman’s detective work can only do so much in the face of such havoc.
This is a non-stop detective drama that is pulp noir, dark and gritty: it is an excellent Batman comic.
Pretty decent volume, full of all the favorites and the beginning of Two-Face, featuring a ton of mobsters and everyone, including the villains and Batman, are bright and shiny and new. It's Year One for the DC line, and it's just fine. Coherent, fun, even having a bit of depth.I like the quality and it's a good story. I especially loved all the interactions with Catwoman. Other than that? It's just the classic Two-Face opener. :) Good mystery, interesting reveal. Solid.
This is my very first Batman comic.
I must admit I'm not too much into the big superhero comics but instead prefer independent comics (mostly because of the constant re-boots of universes etc).The Long Halloween is actually less of a superhero comic and more of a detective story.
In between we have a number of runnings-in with other well-known characters such as Catwoman (who looked weird, so muscular in the outfit but slim in dresses).
Bruce isn't handsome, Selina has atrocious hair, there is the afore-mentioned weirdness of Catwoman, ...
but in some way the edges actually work in delivering the story.
All the stories connect as Batman works with Gordon and attorney Dent to try and figure out who the killer is, as he strikes during the holiday season, setting forth a solid detective battle.
Throw in Batman’s well known villains like The Riddler with his side story that ties into the main one, Joker of course in his crafty goals to ruin holidays for the innocent, Poison Ivy using her seductive charms to reel in victims, and catwoman hopping around never revealing all the cards in her deck.
It was great seeing how this year takes a heavy personal toll on these three dedicated crime fighters and how it leads one of them down a darker path toward becoming one of the best Batman villains.
In the future, any writer attempting to depict the Riddler should take a look at what Scott Snyder did with the character in his New 52 run, or even what Tom King does in his recent shitty run.
But story-wise, it truly is one of the best Batman tales and definitely kept me riveted.
Given that I haven’t read this one in about eleven years, I figured it was time to revisit my (at the time) favorite Batman story.Over the course of one year, beginning on Halloween night, the story follows a new serial killer in Gotham dubbed “Holiday”.
The story of Harvey Dent will always be a tragic one and while I ultimately prefer Christopher Nolan’s version within the 2008 film The Dark Knight, it is clear Nolan borrowed heavily from this story (there are even panels that could be storyboards for the movie).I really love this story.
It’s good to know that nearly eleven years after I first read the book, it still holds up as my favorite Batman story.
FINAL RATING: 4.25 STARS I made a promise to my parents that I would rid the city of the evil that took their lives. I wasn't really intending to read The Long Halloween, even when it was highly recommended to me by my comic book reading friends. I'm member of a Goodreads group that has Batman: Dark Victory as their next group read and I wanted to participate. However, it seems that Dark Victory is set after the events from The Long Halloween, so I was just fuck it, let's read this shit.I'm happ
I did not like that at all, for reasons I don't even remember (I might revisit that at some point since it's from the same writer as this one).WHAT IS IT ABOUTThe Long Halloween follows Batman, Detective Gordon, and Harvey Dent as they try to figure bring down Falcone, while on the sideline, someone else is making a scene.Holiday was a serial killer who kills people every holiday.
Obviously, I waited until Halloween to re-read it ...
Detective Harvey Dent, Captain James Gordon, and the Batman work together to try to stop the killer before the next victim is claimed.
Meanwhile Batman is caught in a gang war between the Maroni and Falcone families.
It's really quite an interesting jaunt through Batman's world for the beginner.
I remember being more intrigued by Sale's art the first time around.
Upon the re-read, I think I'm less intrigued this time around.
All in all, a good read for Halloween for the rogue gallery, even if it features nearly eleven other holidays in one go.
I was leaning toward Batman: Hush, also by Jeph Loeb and with art by Jim Lee, but I already have that story in singles.
I didn't regret it.The Long Halloween is probably the best work to come out from the collaboration of Jeph Loeb and Tim Sale.
Anybody could have been a suspect and Loeb provided clues in the pages.
The twists and turns made it hard to guess who is the suspect, but as I said, Loeb provided the clues.Tim Sale drew masterfully here.
Batman is probably the best character suited to his moody and emotional art.
Açık konuşmak gerekirse, JBC Yayınları'nın Batman / DC ağırlıklı yapısını anlayamamışım. fakat buradan çıkan eserleri okudukça şaşkınlığım ve saygım daha da arttı. Açıkcası bu kadar geniş, yaratıcı bir evren beklemiyordum. Jeph Loeb'in yazdığı, Tim Sale'nin çizdiği, Aslı Dağlı'nın editörlüğünde Hasan Süpürgeci tarafından çevrilen "Batman: Bitmeyen Cadılar Bayramı" tam anlamıyla çok iyi. Bir yıl içindeki özel günlerde kimliği bilinmeyen, sadece adına "Holliday" denen bir seri katil. Batman'in anlatıcılığında ve Gotham'ın karanlık sokaklarındaki kötülerle beraber sürülen izler. Bir efsaneye, Gotham ve Batman'e dair bakışı etkileyen bir eser olmuş. Çizgi roman ve Batman / Gotham severlere önerilir :)
This was one of the three Batman comics which influenced the making of the movie BATMAN BEGINS. The sequel to that film THE DARK KNIGHT grabbed heavily from this particular graphic novel. It's something of an early years of Batman's time as he deals mostly with the mob and an avenger named Holiday who kills people during almost any holiday. There are some good connection setups between Batman, Gordon and Dent. Film noirish style as to the murders some would say.ARTWORK: B; STORY/PLOTTING; B plus to A minus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B plus; OVERALL GRADE: B plus; WHEN READ: early January 2012.
Every comic book artist thinks their interpretation of Batman is the best, but most of them are overdrawn. Tim Sale gets it – he’s one of the best Batman artists I’ve seen. I think he captures the insanity of the Mad Hatter and the Scarecrow so well, and his rendering of Batman is one of the best. I was listening to Amon Tobin’s “Out From Out Where” while reading “The Long Halloween” and the music fit the comic perfectly (especially “The Searchers”). Try it some time: I think Tobin should score the next Batman movie.
Want to know exactly why this book is garbage, in detail? I wrote this article today about the many faults of The Long Halloween which you can read here. Let me know what you think!
And don't forget his signature moves, like ripping off popular movies for plot and dialogue because this hack can't write to save his life, overstuffing his shitty comics with the entire rogues gallery of a given superhero because that would make his crap comic seem more exciting, and making it super fucking long (13 issues of this shit!) because that's how all the serious Graphic Novels roll.Jeph Loeb has been doing this shit in every comic book he ever wrote, as far as I can tell (fine, fine, except for Nova, which was so surprisingly good by his standards that I'm starting to doubt if he really wrote it himself, just like Chad and Anne are doubting that Lobdell actually wrote that new Red Hood book that they like).
Also, its commendable traits from the beginning such as the Batman-Gordon-Dent triad, mob involvement, serial killer murder mystery and rogues' gallery participation, look good in theory but REALISTICALLY SPEAKING the actual execution of all these elements together fell short.
But after finishing it and thinking about what to write for twenty minutes or so, I realized that The Long Halloween is still a work that I suppose deserves its place in the top Batman stories because of the fact that it gave us Two Face's origin story, and that we were able to get the organized crime aspect of Gotham City explored and its enforcers like Carmine Falcone which Batman is also supposed to butt heads with, and not just duke it out with the likes of the Joker, etc.
The Origins of Harvey Dent has begun!  Introduction:  Now, I have been reading many Batman comics whose stories dealt with Batman defeating one of his greatest foes, the Joker. But, I had always wanted to read some “Batman” stories that dealt with another one of Batman’s greatest foes, Two-Face! I got interested in Two-Face’s story when I saw one of the episodes on “Batman: The Animated Series” that dealt with the origin tale of Two-Face and I was amazed at how well that episode portrayed the r
Jeph Loeb had done an excellent job at writing this story as the serial killer starts killing certain members of “The Roman’s” family on holidays such as Halloween, Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year’s Eve and I loved how all thirteen chapters in this book is titled a different holiday like Chapter Two is titled “Thanksgiving” and Chapter Three is titled “Christmas.” I also loved the way that Jeph Loeb made this story similar to a crime noir as the mystery of the story involves Batman, Harvey Dent and James Gordon trying to figure out who the “Holiday” serial killer is and how they will stop him from killing anymore victims and I loved seeing the scenes of the “Holiday” serial killer murdering people as there are no words accompanying the evil deeds and the artwork pretty much does the talking for those scenes.
I don't like Batman as a character.
And don't get me started on him in the justice League.
Grab Superman's cape so you can get there too" Some of the movies work because he exists in a world without a Superman or Wonder Woman but in their world he doesn't work for me.2nd review: Ok. I'm much farther along in my comic reading and my appreciation for the character of Batman has grown considerably.
I still don't like him in the Justice League for the most part but his stand alone stuff can be outstanding!
I love how he draws Batman.
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. I can't say that I had fun reading The Long Halloween. Rather, I grew tired with it by the end. It's okay, of course, because luckily authors and illustrators of comic books change all the time, but as praised as this book is by critics and fans alike, it was not for me. Both the story and the art were more old school that I was in for. On the other hand, with time and reading more Batman, I think I might revisit it and maybe even have a new appreciatio
On the other hand, with time and reading more Batman, I think I might revisit it and maybe even have a new appreciation for it.I liked the mixed batch of villains and the cameos and name-dropping, but ultimately, the story was based around the Holiday killer and that in the end turned out underwhelming for me.Also, as it was old fashioned, both in terms of how it was written and what was included in it, I felt it lacked juice and was very schematic and almost following a pattern which became tiring and predictable after a while.Most of all, I disliked Batman himself.
Phenomenal graphic novel with amazing illustrations. Batman: The Long Halloween is one of the most interesting Batman works I've ever read.
(After having read All-Star Batman and Robin, I think that's a good thing.) It essentially picks up right where Year One left off.
It sounds like a lot going on, but there's plenty of space in 13 issues to cover it all.Everything in the first paragraph is actually secondary to the real story, a mystery revolving around a serial killer dubbed Holiday because s/he kills only on holidays, leaving behind a token related to the day.
It's a really, really good mystery.
It's entirely engrossing, and the resolution is surprising and satisfying.My only issue with the book is that Tim Sale's art just doesn't work for me.
I loved the fact that EVERYONE was in it; Joker, poison ivy, catwoman, riddler etc and I found the concept really interesting, I had to see who Holiday was.
However, I didn't think the artwork was as good as Year One and the Man Who Laughs, especially of my doll Ivy, and the ending was just slightly ridiculous which was a shame.
The one unveiling of holiday i could get my head around but adding more threads just made it feel like the writers were trying to be clever with twists but it failed miserably.
I did enjoy it, like I said it was gripping, it's just the ending that let it down.
"Solomon Grundy..."  If there was one word I could use to describe this comic series, it's this: Clever.  "Born on a Monday..."  I loved the concept of each comic being centered around a holiday, with a corresponding villain to match. I loved the idea of showing the 'Holiday' murders in black and white, while Harvey Dent was hiding in the shadows half the time.  "Christened on Tuesday..."  I loved how three dimensional all the characters were. Not only were we shown Bruce, and the unwavering l
"Solomon Grundy..."
If there was one word I could use to describe this comic series, it's this: Clever.
"Born on a Monday..."
I loved the concept of each comic being centered around a holiday, with a corresponding villain to match.
I loved the idea of showing the 'Holiday' murders in black and white, while Harvey Dent was hiding in the shadows half the time.
I loved how three dimensional all the characters were.
All in all, a good mystery, good action sequences and good character study.
"Solomon Grundy, born on a Monday..."
WOW! That's everything I will say!
Batman'in ilk yıllarını, Falcone ve Maroni ailelerinin hâlâ Gotham'a hâkim olduğu bir dönemi konu alıyor çizgi roman.
Buna ek olarak Gotham'ın karanlık yüzünün bir adamı nasıl kötülüğe, hatta deliliğe sürüklediğini görüyoruz tekrar.Katilin son ana kadar belli olmaması gizem ve keyif unsurunu arttırsa da, o son sahne en güründen bir "Hadi canım!" attırsa da kitabı kapatıp üstünde düşündüğünüzde bazı mantıksız yanları olduğunu görmeden de edemiyorsunuz.
Ayrıca Joker, Scarecrow ve Mad Hatter gibi karakterler çizgi roman boyunca bize eşlik etseler de sırf "olsunlar diye koyulduklarını düşünmeden edemiyorsunuz.Sonuç olarak iyi bir dedektiflik ve iyi bir mafya öyküsü var karşımızda.
Easily the best Batman story I've ever read, and clearly deeply inspirational for many of the better aspects of the Christopher Nolan cinematic Bat-verse.Tim Sale's art isn't to everyone's taste, I know, but having previous experience of him via Superman for All Seasons made it easier for me to just dive into the story. Also, it helps imbue the book with a timeless quality- you could pass it off as having been published in any era convincingly!Also, this gets my vote for sexiest Catwoman of all times...particularly when she's fully clothed!All in all, an absolute must-read for Bat-fans!
Accidentally, I finished Dark Victory before I could manage to get my hands on Batman: Long Halloween, I knew how this long series is going to end before I started on Long Halloween, still I enjoy both volumes SO DAMN MUCH!(Link: https://nerdlush.com/category/events/)The strongest points of Long Halloween and its sequel are the gloomy yet flawlessly gorgeous artwork, the strong crime-noir atmosphere which is shaped into perfection, the ill-fated romance between Batman and Catwoman and the use of a colorful bunch of Batman's villains: the Joker (and his huge mouth!), Poison Ivy (she is beautifully drawn), Mad Hatter, the Riddler, Scarecrow (he always has a grand entrance) and the vicious old fashion-looking Italian crime families!
*What more can I ask for?* However, comparing with Dark Victory, the plots and the murder mystery within Long Halloween is a bit weak: so there is a serial killer named 'Holiday' who is murdering the criminals within Gotham City?
This book is a lengthy and gripping noir story that goes back to Batman’s roots as a detective, as he and Jim and Harvey all try to solve the mystery of the Holiday Killer, who has been striking both the Falcone and Maroni crime families on major holidays, always with the same MO: a .22 caliber pistol with the serial number filed off, a baby bottle nipple to muffle the gunshot, and a little symbol to represent each holiday (pumpkin for Halloween, snow crystal globe for Christmas, heart-shaped chocolate box for Valentine’s).This sets the two criminal organizations into an uproar, with both suspecting each other.
