https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51378.Feminist_Theory
I would highly recommend this to anyone interested in feminism or anyone who currently identifies as a feminist but hasn't yet read this. hooks has a very accessible writing style and does an impeccable job of pointing out the flaws in the feminist movement and putting forth ideas of what feminism as a movement should be if it has any hope of success.
Those revolutionary impulses must freely inform our theory and practice if feminist movement to end oppression is to progress, if we are to transform our present reality" (163).This is a view of feminism that not everyone will agree with, but those who truly do want to see men and women of all races, classes, and ages able to be the best humans they can be will find this a satisfying vision of the world to work toward and a challenge worth taking up.
The need to see 'the entire picture' seems to be her theme throughout and this emphasis on inclusion, as opposed to division, is very stimulating to read.Basically I am in love with bell hooks right now and the beautifully cogent way she puts forward her arguments in this book.
There is no academic jargon, or things that make reading such texts an excruciating process, nor could I detect any dumbing down.
Reading it, and processing the arguments it makes, it feels like I can be whole again.
She argues that mainstream feminism, which has been dominated by middle and upper-class white women, has not opened its doors adequately to non-white and working class women.
She says the movement definitely needs to be more democratic - rather than focus on advancing careers of white middle and upper class women, the focus needs to be on the poorer non-white women whose position in society has become worse/lower.
she also argues that its absolutely essential to find ways to involve progressive men to advocate for feminism with other men who benefit from the patriachal hierarchy.
As long as men are seen as "the enemy" it will be impossible for the movement to grow.
Iako razumem svrhu postojanja one teorije koja ide ispred iskustva, mislim da nam je ovakva teorija iz iskustva višestruko dragocenija. Pomalo je obeshrabrujuća spoznaja da se od objavljivanja ove knjige do danas malo toga promenilo, ako govorimo o aktivnostima Pokreta. S druge strane, autorka nas na samom kraju podseća da je feministička revolucija proces, i da joj to ipak ne oduzima na revolucionarnosti.
The difference between oppression (absolute lack of choices- e.g. poor black women) versus discrimination or exploitation (e.g. middle-class white woman).
I think this narrowing of the areas of institutionality to class, race, and gender alone is short-sighted, and does to the gay rights movement precisely what hooks argues white feminism has done to the struggle against racism: by ignoring it, it enforces it as socially invalid.
Plus, hooks thinks that the desire of some lesbians to use the term “feminism” to mean an alternative lifestyle, women-centered communities, is bad and alienates lesbian from the feminist movement, because they can have those kinds of woman-oriented communities “in churches, kitchens, etc.” But the thing is, they can’t.
bel hooks mete a real: sem recorte de raça e classe o feminismo é só uma bandeira para mulheres bem nascidas - e se o foco não estiver na eliminação de injustiças sociais (para além das de gênero), a gente não vai sair do lugar.
Eu conseguia no máximo intuir algumas das desvantagens que eu tinha em relação aos meus pares, mas imaginava que eram falhas minhas, incapaz de ver como a pobreza geracional da minha família e do lugar em que cresci influenciou minha vida.
Embora hoje isso me pareça muito claro, eu não tinha como articular meu descompasso há 15 anos atrás, porque não me passava pela cabeça noções básicas de centro e margem.
These are the truly radical gestures that create a foundation for the experience of political solidarity between white women and women of color.""We discovered that we had a greater feeling of unity when people focused truthfully on their own experiences without comparing them with those of others in a competitive way.""women's legacy of women hating, which includes fierce, brutal, verbal tearing apart of one another, has to be eliminated if women are to make critiques and engage in disagreements and arguments that are constructive and caring, with the intention of enriching rather than diminishing.
bell hooks kicked open the door, and said that feminism was pretty much available in only one flavor, making it difficult, if not impossible, for women of other races and classes to join in.
bell hooks (she adopted her grandmother's name as a pen name, using lowercase to differentiate herself) made this necessary point: If you don't define the thing, no one will want be associated with it, nor will they feel compelled to try to understand it.
If Feminism means everything, then it means nothing, hooks said.
If feminists won't address and fight racism and class injustice for worry of getting sidetracked from movement goals, then it is the same as putting a Keep Out sign on the door.
written in 84, this one criticizes the (white-dominated) feminist movement of the time, and provides another important stepping stone from the Second Wave to the Third Wave of Feminism.also includes brilliant sections like this passage from page 121:"Patriarchal male rule took on an entirely different character in the context of advanced capitalist society...
As workers, most men in our culture (like working women) are controlled, dominated.
By condoning and perpetuating male domination of women to prevent rebellion on the job, ruling male capitalists ensure that male violence will be expressed in the home and not in the work force."
This was a great overview of bell hooks's views on various issues insofar as they relate to feminism.
Each chapter was pretty distinct and could be read as a separate essay, but I think the book is best read cover-to-cover.If you are beginning to learn about feminism, this might not be the best place to start (go read Feminism is for Everybody, also by bell hooks) but I wouldn't say this is a difficult or dry read.I really enjoyed reading this book and look forward to reading more by bell hooks, as well as owning my own copy!
This book really helped me see the complex relationship between sexism and racism. And my place as not only someone who suffers oppression as a woman, but also as a white woman, someone who benefits from the racist oppression of others and therefore causes suffering in others.
bell hooks insisted that we can't have a coherent feminist movement if it's determined from the centre (i.e. by white bourgeois women).
It’s weird to think that all that needed to be said, but I guess in the 1980s, some people (presumably white liberal women) thought the work had been done.
hooks argues that the idea of a common oppression based on gender served the purposes of bourgeois feminists who needed more women in the movement but didn’t want to address their race and class privileges.
Arguing that all men are oppressors was also alienating as WOC knew that racism made men of colour more likely to be oppressed than a white liberal woman.
However, in her attempt to introduce these valuable perspectives, I think hooks ultimately reinforces the binary logic of domination she considers to be the root of oppression.
By relying on a version of standpoint epistemology in which the most marginalized people have the greatest access to truth, hooks provides a rationale for the "oppression olympics" in which the "most victimized" status is coveted, even as she critiques the victim mentality within the feminist movement.
It clarifies much of the logic behind contemporary feminist thinking, and reading it will help you understand where hooks's thinking has become hegemonic within the movement vs.
It took me a while, but I finally finished it.
Oh, the irony of a woman writing about marginalized women and chastising those who marginalized those women because they didn't look like them, yet participating in the marginalization of women because they don't look like her.The book is still a great read; the ideas are still true as long as one does in fact apply them to ALL women, not just cis women of color, as hooks apparently intended.
I used to think feminist theory was really important to study and learn about. And then John Mayer wrote a song that made it all unnecessary:"Fathers, be good to your daughtersDaughters will love like you doGirls become lovers who turn into mothersSo mothers, be good to your daughters too"
This was a re-read for me as I prepare to teach part of it in a Gender Theory course. It falls under the books that if I could prescribe to every human being in this world, I would.
essencial
Citing Rita Mae Brown, Bell Hooks reminds us how dire change is needed here."Class is much more than Marx's definition of relationship to the means of production.
While they may develop interest in a feminist politic that works to eradicate sexist oppression, they will probably never feel as intense a need for a "feminist" identity or lifestyle." Hooks continues and offers an alternative solution, "To emphasize that engagement with feminist struggle as a political commitment, we could avoid using the phrase "I am a feminist" (a linguistic structure designed to refer to some personal aspect of identity and self-definition) and could state, "I advocate feminism." Because there has been undue emphasis placed on feminism as an identity or lifestyle, people usually resort to stereotyped perspectives on feminism.
Feminist Theory: From Margin to Center is an intellectual powerhouse.
In doing so, hooks extrapolates on how feminism is not a united front and that many "feminist" sects are just as problematic at the patriarchy they are trying to overthrow.
In critiquing these sects, hooks advocates for a feminist movement that emulates AudreLorde's argument in "The Master's Tools Will Never Dismantle the Master's House." While feminism certainly has shifted somewhat since this book's initial publication, it remains relevant for anyone interested in black feminism, as well as feminism in general.
Originally written in the 1980s, hooks gives a pretty solid critique of the white privilege at the center of the early feminist movement, and goes on to discuss the diversity of women's experience, dynamics of power, male allies and the problem of patriarchy. This is intersectionality before intersectionality was cool. Bell hooks is a total feminist rock star.
"It is the absence of feminist theory that addresses margin and center that had led me to write this book."Essential reading by Bell Hooks! Honestly a pioneer in intersectional feminist reading.
really good and so damn relevant still. though some of her arguments on work and sexual oppression were skeevy and not at all in my ballpark..
I think hooks went into a lot of topics as it is, and if she had done more I'd probably be really confused.- I would have preferred doing this in a class or (if I had more time on my hands) to after each chapter go on sparknotes or something, just because I feel like I would have benefitted more if I had been able to discuss the ideas of each chapter with others.- The chapter on sexuality was, in my humble opinion, somewhat messy.- It got repetitive at some points, especially the first 2-3 chapters were broad and repetitive.
As hooks is arguing for an allowance of complexity and a breakdown of dualistic cultural thinking, the way she phrases both her issues with the 'white bourgeois femininst movement' (an appropriate critique at that historical moment, so foundationally, I agree) and possible solutions, she once again falls into reductive formulations and dualisms on race, class, sex/gender, and sexuality--it becomes an us vs.
I give the book 3 stars, nonetheless, because I agree with many of the principles/problems hooks sets forth (the critique of white hegemony in feminist movement, her push for literacy and educational opportunity, her understanding of 'revolution' as a gradual process), but just not the way she articulates them, or many of the resolutions (which are often merely utopic, rather than pragmatic--despite her push for praxis).
She calls for a change in values, a new conception of power that does not include domination over others, and predicts - sadly, with pinpoint accuracy - that a feminism that seeks equality for women within the existing social and economic structure is a feminism that will fail.“Before women can work to reconstruct society we must reject the notion that obtaining power in the existing social structure will necessarily advance feminist struggle to end sexist oppression.
We must now work to change its direction so that women of all classes can see that their interest in ending sexist oppression is served by feminist movement.”She continues: “To build a mass-based feminist movement, we need to have a liberatory ideology that can be shared with everyone.
bell hooks met le doigt sur tellement de pensées, réflexions que j'avais et que je n'avais vraiment réussi à ordonner ou même à concevoir que c'en est presque épeurant.Définitivement une de mes essayistes préférées, d'autant plus que les réflexions du livre se veulent abordables pour tou·tes quelque soit le niveau d'éducation (une mini-base en féminisme n'est cependant pas de trop) et permet d'approfondir plusieurs questions.
Cet essai est encore plus intéressant que le  Ne suis-je pas une femme?
qui était quand même excellent.bell hooks devrait être de ces lectures obligatoires pour tout cours féministe.
To the modern reader who's well-educated in this type of thing, there won't be anything especially revelatory, but that's because the ideas hooks presents have been so thoroughly influential in the discourse of women's studies and feminism.
hooks never hides what she means or obfuscates it in jargon, which makes it a big change of pace from other primary texts.If there's one knock I could make against this book, it's that Feminism is for Everybody does a better job at being a comprehensive introductory guide, and that readers who are well-versed in feminist discourse won't see anything especially new here, making this book seem a bit redundant.
What I like about bell hooks is how commonsense her approach is.
Unlike Marcuse, who was simply content to mock and giggle and suggest that nothing does anything ever, she is deadly serious about wanting to generate real-world solutions.My main concern is that she works at such a grand, theoretical scale that I don't think her approach lends itself well to practical solutions.
In her attempt to find a singular approach to solidarity and liberation, I feel like she winds up alienating a lot of groups who have the same spirit as her but lack her specific vision.
For anyone with outdated ideas of what Feminism is (that it's anti-male, separatist, etc. etc.), this book should be required reading. In fact, this may be the best argument as to why Feminism should be advocated and why it is essential in order for humanity to move forward. For those who consider themselves feminists, but who opperate under narrowly defined, self-interested goals need to drastically rethink their belief systems.I recommend this book to every human being on the planet. Pick it up. Read it.
