https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1965832.A_Dream_of_Sadler_s_Wells
Eventually there were to be fourteen in the series, with the final one in 1964.A Dream of Sadler’s Wells starts with a 14-year-old narrator, Veronica Weston, suddenly being uprooted from her life in London and the ballet classes which she loves, because her father has died.
Even having all this will count for nothing without a big amount of luck, in being in the right place at the right time, which seems most unlikely for Veronica, as, undaunted, she continues to practise in secret.(view spoiler)[After a while Veronica plucks up the courage to ask her Aunt June for proper ballet lessons and we begin to see Veronica’s dedication to her art.
Lorna Hill's Sadler's Wells series were my favourite childhood reads and I'd campaign to have them brought back into print if I thought anyone at all shared my passion for reading about ballet in 1950's London and life in Northumberland. Veronica and Sebastian are possibly one of my favourite fictional couples.
Of course it's a vanished world (50s), but, despite some stereotypical working-class characters, I still found the values good - it's not money that matters, it's culture.
It doesn't matter what people look like - it's their characters that are important.Also, Lorna Hill creates the most wonderful landscapes - it makes me want to go to Northumberland NOW!She's very good at describing contrasts - the lights of a cottage against snow, a fire lighting up a lake for a midnight swim.
Also how beautiful thoughts will inform your art.'The first notes of Tchaikovsky's music were falling on the air like drops of ice tinkling into a crystal goblet.
I'm still in love with Sebastian until noooooooow....oh my childhood...........
'One of the nicest things about the book is that it seems to say 'Come and join in'...'I have read this book twice and I am tempted to read the whole series of fourteen books all over again.' As a veteran Wells fanatic, I can see that my engagement with the works of Lorna Hill began early.
I had turned twelve when I wrote the above as part of a book appreciation exercise for English back in March 1968, and I still return to the series today as I gradually replace my battered old paperbacks for the redolent, opaque-papered and beautifully illustrated hardbacks that I devoured from my local library in North London.
Forced to live with her cousins at the back of beyond in Northumberland, orphaned Veronica, an aspiring ballerina, longs to return to London to study ballet at Sadler's Wells. Can she make her dream come true? And how do her cousins Fiona and Caroline, and their mysterious cousin Sebastian fit into her plans? Will they aid or impede her?
I read and re-read all the Sadlers Wells books. If there was one thing I loved more than ballet it was reading.
I have a lot of love for Lorna Hill. Yep the later ones in the series get a bit pedestrian, and yes the likelihood of one remote North-Eastern town producing a kazillion prima ballerinas does get a little tenuous. But this is the first in the series and possesses a fresh vivacious charm of its own. Veronica is a brilliant heroine; tempestuous, charismatic and vividly drawn.And then there's Sebastian .... ;)
Veronica is training to be a ballet dancer in London but her father dies and she has to move to the North to live with her remaining relatives which means she is taken away from her dance classes and has to put up with her mean cousin Fiona.
On the plus side Veronica learns to appreciate the countryside and her cousins Caroline and Sebastian are much nicer than Fiona.
She also learns to stand on her own two feet and grows stronger.I am a big fan of ballet books but what I loved about this one was that it was about the heroine developing away from her ballet as well as practising it every day.
My absolutely favourite book when I was a little girl.
Untuk Northumberland sepertinya merupakan daerah pedesaan Inggris yang sangat indah, padang rumput dimana kita bisa berkuda, Roman's wall, danau yang dikelilingi pohon cemara, cocok dengan setting tarian balet klasik;)A dream of Sadler Wells menceritakan Veronica seorang gadis berumur 15 tahun yang sangat mencintai ballet dan bercita-cita belajar ballet di Sadler Wells untuk menjadi ballerina terkenal.
Hal ini membuat dia bingung karena tentu saja ia seperti harus melepas impiannya menjadi ballerina karena di Northumberland tidak ada Sadler Wells.Namun di sana dia bertemu dengan Sebastian, seorang pemuda dengan bakat musik luar biasa yang juga bercita-cita menjadi komposer terkenal.
makasih ya yud, muaaaaaaaah :p----------------------------------------------------------------kisah ini dimulai saat veronica harus pindah dr london ke northumberland setelah ayahnya meninggal dunia..dikereta menuju northumberland dia bertemu anak laki2, dan mereka berdua saling menceritakan impian2 rahasia mereka, karena mereka berpikir tidak akan bertemu lagi...
juga dengan queen of babble , malah ini sama2 dikereta, bedanya isi rahasianya :p-------------buku ini terbagi menjadi dua bagian.Bagian pertama menceritakan usaha veronica menyesuaikan diri di tempat tinggal barunya, dengan sepupu-sepupunya, caroline dan fiona, juga sebastian..
paling suka kalo sebastian ngerjain fiona ampe si fiona ketakutan :pBagian kedua menceritakan usaha veronica berjuang untuk tetap belajar balet dan perjuangannya utk bisa menghadiri audisi di sadler well's london...
Narrated by Veronica, and capturing exactly the style of a teenage girl, it's a good story, and (commendably) skips out the boring bits, so there aren't any (the first chapter of part two is called 'One year later', and what matters from that year is covered in a few paragraphs as Veronica reflects).It also combines the winning elements of ballet and ponies.
So in that respect the book is very satisfying.I have never found Sebastian particularly swoon-worthy myself - he's not as bad as Guy, Lorna Hill's other hero, but he's a bit too commanding and temperamental for my taste.
And come on - ballet and ponies - what's not to like?
Veronica is a kind, generous, naive, spontaneous, intelligent, emotional girl with incredible passion.
She lives to dance and anything that might stop her is a genuine tragedy.
She is constantly up in the heights or down in the depths and her narrative convinces you that these things really are of the utmost importance.As for the other characters - Caroline is lovely, Fiona is beautifully nasty - I don't think she ever says a positive word!
As for Sebastian...
arrogant, masterful and intolerant of people he dislikes, he is also intelligent, quick-thinking, unstintingly generous to those he likes.
Joj saj vem da je otročje ampak ta knjiga mi je bila vedno všeč in ravno sem jo ponovno prebrala. Moram reči, da sem bila kar presenečena nad tem, kako dobro je v resnici napisana. Nič dih jemajočega ali literarno osupljivega, ampak res dobro, opisi so zelo slikoviti in prepričljivi, karakterji pa živi in zabavni. Revščina, bogastvo, prijaznost, napuh, pustolovščine, balet - polno vsega tega. Ne morem si pomagati, da ne bi bila očarana in da se ne bi zabavala ob Sebastijanovih šalah, se zgražala nad Fiono in občudovala Veroniko, ko trenira in pleše.
I have almost finished this series, which I should have read as a teenager, if I had known of it's existence...I had taken ballet classes at a young age and loved them so this brought back those years to life..the books are fresh and lovely, geared to teens from about age 15 and up, but still entertaining for adults...the first and second books were my favourites, but I actually enjoyed them all...
I was a big fan of Lorna Hill's Sadler's Wells series as a child (and someone who spent many years training to be a ballerina). That's probably why these books hold such a large part of my heart - not only do I love the topic (ballet! The wilds of Northumberland! Overcoming obstacles to follow your dream!), but they make me nostalgic every time I open one. These will be favourites I'll hold on to forever, and read again and again.
In terms of a children's book, it has a great story but it is very old and the language really dated which i liked (this is how children spoke in books when i was growing up and I thought it was how i should jolly well talk :-))In terms of would I let my daughter read this book - only with lots of discussion and guidance - it's like chick lit for little girls (altho the concept wasn't around when Lorna Hill was writing).
First read it when I was in elementary school, and it made me fall in love with series. This book made me want to have a boyfriend like Sebastian. Witty and musically-talented. I found the almost-complete series of the Sadler's Wells book in a vintage bookstore almost 20 years later, but the latter books cannot surpass the first two books. Too bad a friend lost my first book of the series in junior high. Would anybody suggest where I can get it here in Indonesia? I would love to read it again!
This was one of my favourite childhood/teenage books. I got it handed down from my older cousin, I would love to know if it is still in print as I'd like my daughters to read it. I don't know what happened to my copy. It's an absolute classic and it should be much more well known as a mainstay of teen literature.
dulu minjem punya kakak ;Dtapi dulu bacanya yang versi bahasa indonesia.. yang covernya bedakisah panjang perjuangan seorang balerina yang berusaha mewujudkan impiannya untuk menjadi tokoh utama dalam sebuah pentas balet.rating ini diberikan berdasarkan persepsi saya sekitar 8 tahun yang lalu, mungkin kalo baca sekarang rasanya udah beda.cukup berkesan.
I never really cared for the Sadler's Wells series, which is odd considering what a ballet nut I was. But this one was okay. (The Drina series is by far better though.)
I love the way the men in these books are always so masterful and witty, and all the women a bit sort of naive and passionately idealistic, to the point where they're always getting into heroic but silly scrapes that the men have to come and rescue them from.
Cute, but slightly preposterous tale of an English girl who would like to become a ballet student in the 1950s.
A re-read of one of my favourite childhood books - I'm delighted to say I enjoyed it just as much this time :)
I wish there were more books about ballet like this! Absolutely a young dancers dream to be this character.
Written without any pressures to do what many modern novels do which is to include political stances, beliefs, gender etc and just to write a good story was great.
Originally written in 1972 I suppose it reflects the writing and books I read at that time.
The standard of the writing is excellent too.As usual I won't talk about the plot as there are plenty of those but just to give my take on the book overall.
I shall pass it on to my mum as I know she too will enjoy it.
Reread of an old favorite. Veronica, broken-hearted at the death of her father, is sent from London to live with her cousins, the Scotts, in Northumberland, where she wonders how on earth she will be able to continue her ballet training. But, while her older cousin, Fiona, is not particularly welcoming, Veronica makes friends with the younger, Caroline, as well as with their cousin Sebastian. She learns to ride with the cousins, exploring the neighborhood, and meeting their friends. All of these experiences combined with lessons from Miss Martin, enhance her dancing abilities. Good, believable characterization. Very enjoyable. Recommended.
Ena mojih najljubših knjig :D
Sweet book from a wonderful era! It reminded me of my childhood and the wonders of the imagination and playing outside. It also reminded me of The Secret Garden and makes me want to go see England and a ballet at the Covent Garden.
