https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/754250.Button_Button
The most unnerving 9 pages I've ever read because they gave me pause, long enough to imagine not whether or not I'd press the button but how many times I wouldn't hesitate, all things considered.
It is a great short story to read but it contains crystal clear plot holes which have ruined it a bit. But the moral is excellent and universally well known.Moral Greedy is curse.

The title story has an interesting premise, but the ending is cheap.
"Girl of My Dreams" is another interesting premise, but the narrator's anger is off-putting and the end is, once again, kind of easy and cheap.
The story about the elderly writer was fun, but I saw the payoff coming a mile away, and I'm not even sure I wasn't supposed to, so what's the point?I thought the stories in the second half of this collection were the strongest.
I was very impressed by his " I Am Legend". Picked this book up because it said ..."uncanny stories..." .Liked some stories..others not so hot. Reading short stories requires a lot more concentration since there is not much background info, just snatches of scenario.But Matheson writes lyrical interesting prose so i enjoyed the styling. Just that the stories were just a bit tad weird it took longer to finish. My fav tales? "Mute" for its imaginery and also "Dying room only" which puzzled me quite a bit !
2.5 stars. A couple of good stories but the rest are mediocre.
2,5/5
Shelf Notes ReviewDear Reader,I started this book awhile back but only to read one of the stories, Button, Button, which was made into a movie The Box (I never ended up watching) and was based on a Twilight Zone episode (which I have also never seen).
I think I'll break it down for you (hopefully staying clear from giving too much away).Button, Button: Matheson starts off with the story that this book is famous for, the one made into a movie.
I would highly recommend this one along with the first two stories.A Flourish of Strumpets: Now we start to see Matheson definitely has a theme for this book because this story ALSO involves a couple.
Last night I watched movie "The Box" and at the end it was written it's based on book with this name. For some reason, I kind of hoped there's book. Considering I liked movie, I'll definitely read this book one day.
For the most part, this was a really good collection of short stories.
Matheson seems to be quite good at the form, and I found myself enjoying most of these stories, though there were a few in there that just didn't work all that well for me.
None were too long and the writing style made them very easy reads (except for the Jazz Machine).What didn't work for me: The Jazz Machine, Tis the Season to be Jelly, and the Creeping Terror.
Considering how short it is (only 3 or 4 pages), there's a lot in there.Good stuff.
It's always hard to read short stories, especially in an anthology, because they vary so much in length, quality, mood and so on.
The stories in this collection, mostly from the 1950s and the 1960s, seem rather watered down to me, perhaps being too short and rushed (on the other hand, I loved Matheson's full-length novel I Am Legend).
The one story I did like, was "The Creeping Terror," also from 1959.
It goes into my own anthology of living cities, along with China Miéville's story on feral streets (see "Reports of Certain Events in London" in Looking for Jake).
I'm yet to read a novel by Richard Matheson, but his short stories continue to impress me.
This collection in all fairness was not as good as the absolutely awesome Nightmare at 10 000 Feet, but it still offered such strange and interesting tales.
The book starts off with Button, Button, the story that inspired the underwhelming 2009 cinematic adaptation The Box. It's amazing how short and poignant the story is comparing to how overblown and drawn out the film was.
Matheson definitely experiments with different styles in this collection, but every story showcases the author's cleverness, humor and ingenuity.
Actually, I've only read the ebook version of Matheson's short story "Button, Button". It was reminiscent of WW Jacob's The Monkey's Paw with a dark twist in the end. I have seen both the Twilight Zone version and the Cameron Diaz movie, both of which weren't faithful to Matheson's original concept (although the Twilight Zone version seemed closer even though it differed in the ending). Personally, I think I prefer the Monkey's Paw, but Button, Button is still a nice, good read, especially since it's short enough to read while sitting in the waiting room.
I picked up this book, once I realized the movie The Box was based on a short story by Richard Matheson.
I wasn't familiar with Richard Matheson, but apparently, Stephen King was once quoted as saying that he is the author who influenced him the most as a writer, so I figured I would give him a try.I read the first story, which the movie, The Box is based on called Button, Button and loved it.
It is a tale of ethics vs.
The other short stories in the book are all excellent and many have a Twilight Zone feel to them.
A collection of short stories by the writer of "I Am Legend" and many Twilight Zone episodes. Very much in that vein. Most of these were written between 1950 and 1970, but have a timeless appeal. Except "The Creeping Terror", which is just horribly dated and is best forgotten. But a couple of these would make awesome short movies. Some of them were made into movies, including "The Box" and "Dying Room Only". Some have a TWIST ENDING! before that was a thing and M. Night Shyamalan ran that concept into the ground. Very thoughtful fiction.
Mostly lighter Twilight Zone fare, but a couple of the stories have some rich premises that are well spun out. The title story isn't even the strongest by far, but I guess it's the most known. The cover proudly proclaims that it's "soon to be a MAJOR MOTION PICTURE: 'The Box', starring CAMERON DIAZ"...yeah, I don't remember that one either.
I only read one short story titled Button, Button. I have to say that this story is AMAZING! Although I could predict what would happen next, this story still has appeal. It reminds me of the story Monkey's Paw by W.W Jacobs. Same plot. Same message. I love that kind of story!!!
I dare you to read these stories and not shout "TWIST!" at the ends. Overall, a bit of an uneven collection but each story is so short that the stinkers don't get in your way too much. Definite brain candy but smart enough that it escapes the "guilty pleasure" category.
It's a fun, clever read. Not complete fluff.
The ending of the short story is a cheap cop out that violates its own rules and I only didn't see it coming because the movie ending was so much better it never occurred to me that it wasn't the original ending.It was satisfying to read "Mute," the short story that a middling Twilight Zone episode was based on, and nice to see that it was translated to the screen about 97% intact, and I'm pretty neutral about the one major change that was made (gender flipping the main character).
After finishing up all the works of Stephen King, I found myself looking for a new storyteller to satiate my desire for creepy, thought-provoking tales.
Even though I came into the book really, really wanting it to entertain me, the final page left me extremely disappointed.Perhaps I'm just spoiled by the works of Stephen King, or perhaps I just picked the wrong Matheson story collection.
Either way, I enjoyed these stories very little and cannot recommend them to others (especially desperate King fans like myself looking for similar works).
Kumpulan cerpen Richard Matheson yang pertama kali saya baca.
Hampir semua terbilang unik, bahkan bagi saya yang banyak baca cerita misteri ala King atau Gaiman.
Matheson membuat saya menebak-nebak akan ke manakah dia membawa pembacanya.
Apakah ini horor atau misteri?
Apakah ini akan jadi komedi atau tragedi?Favorit saya : Dying Room Only dan MuteKutipan favorit :“Paal's parents had not loved him.
Werner knew this.
Caught up in the fascination of their work they had not had the time to love him as a child.
Kind, yes, affectionate, always; still, they had regarded Paal as their experiment in flesh.”Why are the greatest jazz interpretersThose who live beneath the constant gravity of prejudice?
Some of the stories fall a little flat, but there are several standouts.
Button, Button is a fairly chilling story, Dying Room Only makes for a good mystery, and ones like the Creeping Terror and Clothes Make the Man are darkly comedic and stick with you for a while.
Pattern for Survival is probably the weakest tale in the book, and even then I wouldn't say it was bad, merely that it didn't grab me as much as the other ones did.While the book isn't as good as his novels are, it's still a pretty good collection of his short stories, so I'd recommend it.
El autor nos regala esta historia sobre la ambición humana, que no tiene límites...¿Conocemos realmente a las personas? Pues no importa, si apretas el botón alguien que no conoces morirá y recibirás un montón de dinero... Cuento corto, que se lee en una sentada, me atrapó un montón...Recomendable
A series of short stories from Richard Matheson. The stories are pretty hit or miss, but the problem is that most of the stories pass by one another in other copies of different collections. For example, title story Button Button, is one of the stories in The Incredible Shrinking Man. It would be nice if they did a better job with the collections, but overall everything was pretty generic.
Richard Matheson is an amazing storyteller and that skill shines through in this collection of short stories. Mute is one of my favorite Twilight Zone episodes and the story is rich and the language is gorgeous!
Button, Button is one of the best SF short stories I have read so far.
Very good!
the stories in this book were a solid 2. an extra star for the palpable influence this guy had on stephen king, which was really cool to see.
*3.5
