https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93979.An_Autobiographical_Study
An Autobiographical Study  lays emphasis on Freud’s professional rather than personal life. It is a record of his accomplishments in the history of psychoanalysis, written in a dry, at times even sardonic tone. Considering, just as he himself acknowledges, he had been more open and franker in other of his writings, such as  The Interpretation of Dreams , perhaps he saw no need of revisiting his inner growth. True enough, you will get a better sense of Freud’s mind by reading  The Interpretatio
An Autobiographical Study
lays emphasis on Freud’s professional rather than personal life.
It is a record of his accomplishments in the history of psychoanalysis, written in a dry, at times even sardonic tone.
Considering, just as he himself acknowledges, he had been more open and franker in other of his writings, such as 
The Interpretation of Dreams
, perhaps he saw no need of revisiting his inner growth.
True enough, you will get a better sense of Freud’s mind by reading 
The Interpretation…
He calls Jung and Adler heretics.
I imagine he called them a lot worse…
"I was thus led into regarding the neuroses as being without exception disturbances of the sexual function, the so-called 'actual neuroses' being the direct toxic expression of such disturbances and the psychoneuroses their mental expression. My medical conscience felt pleased at my having arrived at this conclusion"hahaha, bless him.
Ne preporučujem. Iz ovog dela nisam naučila ništa novo o Frojdu, osim da ne želi da preuzme odgovornost za svoje neuspehe. Tako na strani 12. optužuje verenicu da je ona kriva za to što nije postao slavan u već svojim mlađi godinama. Razočarana...
This translation is that of the Standard Editon, Volume 20. It originally appeared in Volume 4 of Die Medizin der Gegenwart in Selbstdarstellungen (Leipzig, Felix Meiner) in 1925. As much a history of the psychoanalytic movement as a biography, it does contain general information about Freud's background and motivations, but this self-portrayal is rather on the order of the kind of essay one would write in an admissions essay.
Фройд пише авотобиографията си през 1925. Заглавието може и да е подвеждащо - основно Фройд посочва основите на развитието на професионалния си живот като лекар, търсенията му и достигането до някой от основните теории и категории. Разглежда и реакцията срещу психоанализата през първите тридесет година на 19в. Интересна за всички: за лаиците които са чели за Фройд и нищо от него; за запознатите и с интерес към психологията - с погледа на самия човек зад иконата и за професионалистите - с пропомняне от къде тръгва самата идея за несъзнавана психика. Интересна книга. "Моралните оценки поначало са чужди на психоанализата"
I am surprised by how much I enjoyed and learned from this overview of Freud’s work.
It is fascinating to note how much insight he had, and how much Jung really branches off Freud’s theories.
It is a historical read, and it is important to be aware of our history.
The index is great so you can easily reference most of his concepts by phrase.
That said, what I found myself highlighting in the text were his moments of projection and self aggrandizement.
Freud was a puritan who dedicated his life to promoting a theory which sexualizes the basic impulses of everyone.
Çevirmen yorumları da etkisiyle oldukça uzun ve psikoloji bilmeyip, bu konuya ilgili kişilere başta anlaması güç gelse de, oldukça güzel bir kitap. Freud'un yaşamına dair verilen bu yorum ve bilgiler sayesinde, okuduğunuz eserin içinde hissettiğiniz tüm o kendini kanıtlama çabasını daha rahat anlamlandırabiliyorsunuz. Bu kitabın üstüne Freud öğretilerinden sapan Jung ve Adler'in kitaplarını da okuyup, hangisine hak verdiğinizi seçmeniz gerektiğini hissettiriyor kitap. Psikolojiye ilginiz varsa mutlaka okuyun derim.
Not exactly what I expected. Like Freud already mentioned at the end of the book, he kept his private life for himself because he thought it was not relevant (at least for this book). So this 'autobiographical study' is actually a brief summary of his work, development of his ideas and (some) thought processes behind it. Not detailed enough to provide reader a deeper understanding of psychosis, neurosis, dreams etc.. and lacking almost all informations needed to understand Freud and his state of mind during formation of all this concepts. Still an interesting read.
Short concise story of professional career of founder of psycho-analysis. You will not find some mysteries from his private life here - only elements from his professional career that led to establishment of psycho-analysis as a way of treating and better understanding of human psyche.[return][return]Very interesting, recommended.
Freud was a very honest writer. Although I disagree with him on most of his ideas, he is clear in laying out what he thinks and where he came up with the ideas. He was obviously a deep thinker, although I think in some cases far too deep.
Did I...no... did I read this out of coincidence, well not quite coincidence, on Valentine's day!?
Freud kendi yaşamına dair ilk okuduğum kitap olmuştu. Ona dair merakım ve ilgim sonrasıyla devam etti. :)
Interesting little snippet - he does mention the start of his working with cocaine.
