https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30263.Every_Which_Way_But_Dead
This is a paranormal urban fantasy that I can like.
I have been reading this series because it has an end.
That kept me going in this particular book.
I read the books for the story and the dialog, sometimes.The ending was like a cozy mystery; family and friends together in a celebration.
But what I also liked was the revelations that the author has been giving us in small doses.
It looks like everything has been told to us, but I wouldn't bet on it.
What a potent story in store for us!
The first thing you do is….A. Drink some coffee and hope your head feelsbetter soon because you have a big job that night andneed to get a little rest before then.B. Call said person to let them know you are okay andthat you have escaped a fate worse than death, theydon’t need to find a way to save you.C. Hang out with some people and wait for your lovedone to find you since as soon as he knew you were in trouble nothing could keep him from tracking you down.
☠ DNF at 61%. Go me and stuff. Why the murderous crustaceans are DNFing this PoC™ thing and won't bother continuing with this series : All relationship/romance/dating BS/crap and NO plot/story whatsoever. Rachel, Ivy, Nick, Kisten, Skimmer (view spoiler)[the murderous crustaceans shall very graciously refrain from commenting on this slightly pathetic name (hide spoiler)]…Reading this book feels like watching a bloody shrimping culebrón. Which might explain why much eyerolling and facepalmingpinc
Rachel, Ivy, Nick, Kisten, Skimmer (view spoiler)[the murderous crustaceans shall very graciously refrain from commenting on this slightly pathetic name
(hide spoiler)]…Reading this book feels like watching a bloody shrimping culebrón.
② Rachel Mariana Shrimping Morgan's TSTL tendencies poor decision making skills are slightly rampage-inducing exasperating.
No wonder she likes Rachel Mariana Shrimping Morgan so much.
You are quite welcome.⑤ Nick is a lame coward who deserves to die get his pathetic ass slightly kicked and stuff.⑥ Ridiculously pooooooooor writing.⑦ Total snooze fest.⑧ And the icing shrimp on the cake paella: 
Come on, guys, I can't make stuff like this up.All of them had great, big WARNING signs flashing over their heads, and I chose to ignore every, single one of them.
Almost immediately after she lays eyes on him for the first time, she sees that he has a DEMON MARK, but still, after he teaches her how to gamble, she's disappointed that he leaves without asking her for her number.I know I'm not the only one driven crazy by this kind of behavior, but I also know that I'm not the only one who feels this way due to flashbacks of "I am become that which I hate."But relationship choices aside, EVERY WHICH WAY BUT DEAD continued the steady improvement of the THE HOLLOWS.
Although Rachel slips up in her inter-personal relationships with the people in her life, she is a good person who really does care about others, and that always shines through.
This world is so intriguing with the mixes of fae and other species with witches, that I feel a lot more interesting plotlines could come to pass beyond the vamp thing.
I liked how Rachel turned things around on him.
I think she will come to realize how truly powerful she is as this series progresses.Trent--I get this vibe that he has a thing for Rachel.
Rachel must find a way to get herself out of the deal with Algaliarept without getting herself or her friends killed in the process.In each book, it's apparent how much she grows to love her friends, Jenks & Ivy and that's admirable.
In this book we don't see much of Jenks, which was the result of Rachel keeping things from him.
He & Rachel have some pretty steamy, hot and heavy, moments where they undress each other with their eyes.This book introduces a new character which I'm sure we'll see more of.
This review can also be found at Carole's Random Life.I liked this audiobook but it was bit of a disappointment after absolutely loving the first two books in the series.
It was a good book but it wasn't anywhere near as entertaining as the first two in the series were for me.This book started out really strong with Rachel having to deal with Big Al. Things looked pretty bad for her and I had no idea how she was going to outsmart him.
This felt like more of a transitional book that may be laying the framework for future books.I did enjoy the narration in this audiobook.
One of the things I like about Rachel is her ability to think her way through situations, especially when she's figuring out how to balance her magic skills with what she knows about the rules of her world.
She's pressed to her limits in this story and learns so much about herself and her gifts.
With each story we seem to be learning more about Rachel's past and the implications on the present, which I find fascinating.
I'll never go back to the eBook format.I enjoyed the story and the action, though at times I thought they were unnecessarily drawn out.
I'm very much enjoying the series.
I have to deduct stars from this for several reasons. All three books so far have suffered from a shit-poor editing job and my inner editor constantly screams while reading them.Then there's the fact that Rachel Morgan is just unbelievably stupid. Painfully stupid. So stupid that she shouldn't be allowed to live. So stupid that I don't understand why she IS alive. I WILL read the next book because there're a number of things that intrigue me. However, if the next book isn't markedly better then I doubt my curiosity will be able to maintain another sojourn into Harrison's literature.
This one was excellent! A series that started well, got better in the second and has hit its stride in the third. I really enjoy the large cast. It reminds me of the Dresden files in that way, where each builds on the one before and the side characters develop along with the main protagonist and broaden the whole picture of the world created.Recommended series. Book 4 here I come!
On the other hand, the character driven scenes kept me reading, and when the plot finally got rolling in the last 30% of the book, I was frothing.The book starts out with two problems presented to Rachel: A demon that she owes favors to has come to collect, and a new crime boss in town is making life difficult for everyone.
Without spoiling anything, I will say Rachel's love life gets a lot more complicated in this book.I do like a strong plot, and I can a problem with this protagonist.
And months later, decided to give the second a chance because some many people loved it.And while I did like the second book, I still wasn't blown away by it and was still wondering, what all the fuss was about.You see, it wasn't until book three, this book, that I finally got it.
I mean, truly, I get it now, I really do.This book was so much fun and I ended up reading late into the night to finish it and knew without hesitation, that I had to buy all the others.
¿Alguien más que extrañe a Buffy tanto como yo? Bien, no os preocupeís más........porque Buffy vive en casi todas las novelas de fantasía urbana y THE HOLLOWS no es una excepción (por suerte)Y si no hay ganas de leer, Buffy está en Netflix ;)ACLARACIÓN: Aunque esta reseña tiene marcado 'spoilers' después de cada ítem, no suelo spoilear nada. Es decir, no escribo nada que arruine la trama principal. (En caso de hacerlo, lo advierto previamente con una nueva marca de spoiler>!! O sea, te encaj
Bien, no os preocupeís más........porque Buffy vive en casi todas las novelas de fantasía urbana y THE HOLLOWS no es una excepción (por suerte)Y si no hay ganas de leer, Buffy está en Netflix ;)ACLARACIÓN: Aunque esta reseña tiene marcado 'spoilers' después de cada ítem, no suelo spoilear nada.
Ya lo escribí previamente pero....ARGHHHHH...Sinceramente, la historia pasada de (view spoiler)[Kisten (el vampiro, la tentación constante que entorpece la vida de Rachel,  (hide spoiler)] no se merecía tanto espacio.
Kisten sigue siendo un cliché y Nick una nada, pero el resto de los personajes crecen cada vez más.
I loved this one, starting to really get into this series. Also.... I mean can we talk about Kisten?!?! I am so up for Rachel and Kisten as a couple. I feel kinda bad for Ivy though and her strong feelings toward Rachel and her not knowing what to do with them. I hope Ivy will find someone.
Hmm. I felt this one was a little weaker, overall, than the second book - possibly because there was a little less emphasis on plot and a little more on Rachel finding more or less every single guy hot.It didn't really bother me - for which I need to give the author some props, because it so easily could have, and should have - but really, it was getting ever so slightly ridiculous how Rachel was basically drooling over every man she met.
well, maybe she could just settle for drooling over no more than two guys a book, hmm?
My favorite book in the series so far!
With a very well structured world-building and many great characters that in every book have very interesting development, this book was definitely one of my best reads this year.
Well, but all of that is just a typical day in her life!It’s easy to see that Rachel is changing in the series.
Rachel is a woman who was lonely and now learns how to trust more than one person.
The fact that she’s trying for a relationship with Kisten is definitely a sign that her mind now is more open to different.
I believe that Jenks is irresistible!!!So, if you haven’t start this series you should definitely give it a try!
Yet she forgives Kisten, her vampire lover, for "accidently" killing 16 people on a rivals boat.
His excuse "I warned my enemy and I thought he would get the people off the boat".
She decides it wasn't his fault because his rival should have gotten the people off the boat.
This series has so many flaws I'm constantly reading in disbelief but I will definitely finish the series because even a bad book can in someway's be good.
It's like reading a Jackie Collins book, you know it stupid but you just can't stop.
He is a boring and irrelevant character and (even if I know it is a terrible thing to say) I wish he could just dye, but a good read's friend told me he will keep coming in all the books.Kisten is super hot.
And I really like the relationship that is settling between him and Rachel.Although my fave character is Trent!
I mean don't get me wrong, I love Kist, but Trent is the best and he will win at the very end.This series is getting better and better with every new book I read.
Not quite as good as book two but definitely still great. So far my series re-read is a success.
still enjoyable but it's starting to slip.
Srsly, this series could be so bloody amazing if Rachel weren't such a bloody idiot.
These just keep the high standards since the first book. Good character maturity.
I like the flow of this series.
To my mind, three serious love interests in as many books (two of which she's slept with, and that's not mentioning Ivy's rapey weirdness), plus a plot that tends to revolve around Rachel's romances, puts this firmly in PNR territory.I still think a lot of my enjoyment has to do with the narrator, Marguerite Gavin.
This book really isn't any worse than the previous two, and it has a lot of the same selling points: interesting worldbuilding, large cast of characters, and plenty of action.
Every Which Way But Dead4 StarsThere is a lot going on in Rachel’s life as she deals with becoming Algaliarept’s familiar, Nick’s aloofness, Ivy’s possessiveness, Kisten’s advances, Jenks’s hurt feelings as well as a possible Were stalker, a dangerous extortionist and last but not least, Trent Kalamack’s mysterious machinations.
The developments with regard to Nick are positive and I, for one, would be glad to (view spoiler)[see the back of him for good (hide spoiler)].
More information is provided on Trent and his agenda that sheds light on his past actions and makes them more understandable if not completely acceptable.
Does Rachel want to make her existence known to Trent Kalamack?
Her relationship with Nick is strained from the second installment after she makes him her familiar.
Their chemistry from the end of the second book certainly doesn't go ignored here.
She ends up going to an event with Trent Kalamack, elf tycoon and brimstone dealer.
Quen, Trent's head of security, cannot accompany him due to his vulnerability to his vamp scar, so he begs Rachel to go in his place.
While there's definitely some heat with Kisten, there is surprisingly a good deal of chemistry between her and the elf, too.
I couldn't ask for anything more: non-stop action, danger, more of my favorite characters [Trent, Kisten and Takata], some great new additions [Ceri, David and Erica] and finally some overdue romance!!
I had Trent and Kisten listed as potential suitors for Rachel in my head after the second book, but Kisten has definitely won me over!
Rachel's character started out a "diamond in the rough" who is now evolving and this maturity is apparent in Every Which Way But Dead.
I really missed Jenks and his great one-liners in the second half of the book...can't wait for him to come back!
[Re-read November 2014]Memorable moments in this one as well. *happy sigh* I'm pretty sure from the earliest books, this one had some of my most favorite scenes with Trent - and here I started jumping head-first on Team Trent. (Then there's the wedding part mwahaha.:D)Rachel is already showing signs of her personal growth and self discovery. And everyone is so badass! I'm so in love with Kisten at this point... Debating if I should or should not go through that part of the series again or just skipping ahead...
Actual rating: 4 starsIt's official...I truly love this series. The world is amazing, and our main characters are just as awesome!! This book would've been five stars, but the typos were ridiculous. It was to the point where the story was affected because often the typos made me have to stop and figure out what the author was saying. It sort of hampered my reading experience. But Kisten made up for it...oh how I love him!!!!
