https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86524.The_Path_to_Power
Let’s just call it a great big fucking book, in every sense of the various adjectives.It’s somehow fitting that, in the same week that The Path to Power was keeping me up till 3 or 4 a.m. every night, I was also working my way through the first two seasons of Breaking Bad. Seen side by side like this, LBJ the wheeler-dealer and Walter White the meth dealer share a certain resemblance; they inhabit the same moral penumbra.
So there’s that too.Still, for all Johnson’s Shakespearean complexities, this wouldn’t be the great big fucking book it is if Robert Caro had stuck to his safe, biographical bailiwick.
Here, that subject is Lyndon Baines Johnson, a poor Texas boy born in the dry Hill Country, who went to a no-name teaching college, who taught Mexican kids on the border, who worked himself nearly to death to win a congressional seat, who likely stole his Senate seat, who became the most powerful Majority Leader in Senate history, who became an accidental president, who spent his life accumulating power, and then spent that power on civil rights, voting rights, and the poor, and who then broke himself on the rock of Vietnam.
"...if Lyndon Johnson was not a reader of books, he was a reader of men--a reader with a rare ability to see into their souls."-- Robert A Caro, The Path to PowerI'll write more tomorrow, but if the next three (and the final, yet to be written book) are as polished and well-researched as this one, this may end up being the definitive biography of any president.
So, each time I turned to read them, I imagined some immense mountain I would need to climb.
But Caro's narrative is so easy, so fascinating, so compelling that the mountain practically pulls you up.
Lots of people think LBJ was a mean ole' SOB, but he was also enigmatic, visionary and had a great understanding of how to bust some balls for the good of the people.
Despite the accounts of infidelty, great ego and down-right intimidating scariness, LBJ is one of the most under-valued presidents.
He set the framework for civil rights in motion and devoted more policy to education and eradicating poverty than any president since him.
And Caro is just a fun read.
His research is so detailed you feel as though you are reading a narrative fiction instead of a biography of a president.
This biography is also very much in the "life and times" tradition and we learn almost as much about Johnson's surroundings as we do about the man himself.Johnson's political abilities and his lust for power were first on full display at Southwest Texas State Teacher's College in San Marcos.
But Johnson had the support of Brown and Root and others in their circle, and they poured huge amounts of money into Johnson’s campaign—more than had ever been spent in a Texas Senate campaign, and much of it raised and spent in violation of the law.As a result, Johnson basically had the election in the bag.
And it is drawn so vividly that one feels anxieties about the outcome of events that were long ago decided.He has long chapters that are not at all about Johnson but about people who, at some point, were important to his life or career and at one point, about the place he was raised--hill country in Texas.
Places and people and events are the ground from which the person grows and draws life and sometimes which bring destruction.
In one chapter, Caro describes what it was like for poor farmers and their wives to live in hill country when the electric companies had decided that electrifying these poor and spread-out farms was not worth their efforts.
He even managed to keep me interested for at least 80% of the time.Reading presidential biographies feels a lot like being in school, except that most of the American history I studied in school was deeply slanted towards the sentiments that all of our Presidents were awesome dudes and America is the most democratic country in the world.
Reading these carefully researched books has given me the education about my country I need to be a confident and wise citizen and voter.The Path to Power only covers Johnson's first 36 years from his birth to his election to the House of Representatives to his first failed campaign for the Senate.
Caro writes unforgettably of the hardscrabble life in the Texas Hill Country, of Johnson’s relentless ambition, of the corrupt political realities in Texas.The most enduring impression of Johnson was his superhuman, all-consuming will to make something happen, no matter who and what he had to climb over.
Johnson is in President Roosevelt’s good graces, and is returning to Sam Rayburn’s good graces, but he is still a bit player in Congress, and he chafes.Perhaps the most startling revelation was Johnson’s unwillingness to tip his hand about his ideology.
But the only other thing Caro ever wrote was this four volume (fourth volume still forthcoming, and he'll probably manage to split it up and turn it into two more door-stopping volumes) biography of Lyndon Johnson, and I knew there was no way I cared enough about Lyndon Johnson to read some 3000 small-print pages about him.
But the book would almost be worthwhile if Johnson never did another thing, because it also gives such perfect descriptions of so many different, and now vanished, social worlds, from the impoverished Texas Hill Country, to old Texas state politics, to a small teachers college, to an isolated Mexican town, and to 1930s DC.
I am currently reading Volume 3 of the 4 volumes Caro wrote about LBJ.
My biggest challenge in writing this review is that I cannot come up with adjectives adequate to convey the sheer brilliance of what Caro has crafted.
I have despised him, admired him, been embarrassed for him, marveled at him: if ever a human being was crafted with one unambiguous goal, with all of the requisite skills needed to achieve that goal, it was LBJ.
He wanted one thing-- power, and was capable of doing everything and nothing as he saw fit in myriad situations necessary to achieve that.
https://bestpresidentialbios.com/2017...“The Path to Power: The Years of Lyndon Johnson” is the first volume in Robert Caro’s epic series covering the life of Lyndon B.
Caro is currently working on the fifth (and, presumably, final) volume in his LBJ series.Published in 1982, “The Path to Power” is the inaugural volume in a series that has consumed more than four decades of Caro’s life.
Robert Caro’s “The Path to Power” is a literary gem, a biographical treasure and a promising start to his ongoing five-volume journey through Lyndon Johnson’s life.Overall rating: 4½ stars
This is a sensational opening to the LBJ biography series.
I was blown away by the detail that Caro includes and the stories that he is able to weave, shedding both positive and negative lights on LBJ.
It appears that no stone was left unturned and no person opinion was swept under the rug.
He steers away from the story to tell a tale about something or someone unrelated.
He does move on point and one does eventually see why he appeared to leave the story.
This massive biography will surely be the greatest collection of stories about a politician I will ever read.
To someone thinking about reading this book, set aside what you know about LBJ and buckle up for an enthralling character study set against an absolutely jaw-dropping backdrop.
I didn't expect to be so taken with Texas, but Caro's thorough and compelling descriptions of life in the Hill Country are moving in their desperation and medieval character.
There are so many great little historical close calls: the August 1941 vote to renew the draft; the Texas Senate race that LBJ bought but didn't win and the IRS investigation thereafter.
Biography at its best. I eagerly wait for the second volume.
Unbelievably great. One of those books that makes you want to knock every other book you've read down a star or two. A "I didn't know books could be this good" kind of book.
Chapter 27 on life as a poor pre-electrification farmer--same in the 1930s in west Texas as in the 1600s anywhere, evidently--is deeply powerful as a explication of a life of misery and drudgery.One gets the impression reading this that Caro has interviewed every living creature that LBJ had any substantial interaction with in his first 33 years.
Caro delights in occasionally pointing out where other biographers, less through or more trusting, have gotten details or tends wrong.
Caro covers the price (prices!) of lunch in Washington, D.C., in 1935, and I don't begrudge the detail.The narrative is powerful and compelling, about as much of a page turner as 800 pages can be.
Here was one passage I highlighted, about the struggle to force utilities to provide electricity to farming communities:"In Lyndon Johnson's own district, Texas Power & Light policy governing the one electric line permitted only farms within fifty yards of the line to hook up to it.
Several scores of farmhouses were near the line, but farther away than fifty yards.
Some of these farmers, in desperation, said they would move their homes so that they would be within fifty yards.
I read all about the inner workings of the Roosevelt administration, Sam Rayburn, "Cactus Jack" Garner, Texas machine politics, the ecology of the Texas Hill Country, and the creation of a little company called Brown and Root.When it comes to Lyndon Johnson, it fills in a lot of pre-history referenced in the other books and just makes me even more baffled by Johnson's personality.The core of the book consists of illustrating all the times that Johnson took a look at a system that to all other eyes looked boring and unchanging.
In his eyes and his hands, this system was turned into an instrument for his own purposes.
I'd even recommend this as another non-technical computer security book because it goes into detail about all the ways Johnson circumvented systems for his own benefit.
At times, I thought of skipping to the last book (so far) in the series which covers when Johnson became president, but I never felt like giving up this one despite its size and how detailed it is.
Amazingly well researched book and I'm looking forward to reading the rest in the series.
Then Jay asked him: "So, what do you miss more, cheese or being president?"I was really surprised when Clinton responded, "Oh, Jay, I miss being president a lot more than I miss cheese."That comment (along with many other insights) persuades me realize that politicians -- at least most of the successful ones -- have a different mindset than most people, at least very different from mine in terms of ambition, egotism, and especially hunger for power.In many ways Lyndon Baines Johnson is the quintessential politician.
Let’s just call it a great big fucking book, in every sense of the various adjectives.People are going to be arguing about Robert Caro’s portrayal of Lyndon Johnson for decades to come, but even on the most generous interpretation of the facts, it seems pretty clear that the 36th POTUS was at once a crook, a liar, a shameless toady, a serial adulterer and a complete physical coward.
So there’s that too.Still, for all Johnson’s Shakespearean complexities, this wouldn’t be the great big fucking book it is if Robert Caro had stuck to his safe, biographical bailiwick.
Caro's The Years of Lyndon Johnson series.
He makes 99 percent of other historians seem pedestrian and insignificant.The Path to Power describes Johnson's early life growing up in the Texas Hill Country, his work as a teacher, early congressional career and his first (failed) Senate race in 1941.
LBJ is the product of such a crude, boisterous environment; if there's any shortcomings to Caro's work, it's that he dislikes Johnson and is apt to emphasize his flaws over his achievements.
I learned more about US politics from this book than almost any other.
Then describes his childhood and political development in college.
The bulk of the book though shows how LBJ maneuvered through New Deal DC, making allies and using New Deal programs to benefit his sponsors.
By the end of the book (and FDR's death) of course LBJ, who had portrayed himself as a liberal, betrays the New Deal and embraces his new role as a conservative southern Democrat.
The book does a great job of explaining how Johnson's political career was marked by an intensely unprincipled opportunistic streak.
A combination of bad environmental management, bad economic bets, and inhospitable terrain had turned the once-lush hill country into eroded terrain that would never again support the production it had for its first farmers, and this part of Texas would, as Caro describes it, be supporting an agrarian population that lived and farmed under conditions that were literally medieval well after the major cities of America had been transformed by electricity and motor cars.Lyndon Johnson was born here, the son of Samuel Johnson, who was a remarkable politician in his own right.
With this level of detail, Caro takes time to describe various aspects of LBJ's life and the people in it, but each tangent is interesting and fits nicely into the over all purpose of explaining and laying out the path that LBJ set for himself to achieve power, specifically through politics.
LBJ grew up very poor in the Hill Country of Texas and the way I view the life of farm people and pioneers will be changed forever.
It is very detailed, and even though there were sections which were of less interest to me, such as the physical description of the Hill Country, Caro's writing is wonderful and it was never boring.
I picked a great one.Caro did a lot of research and was able to interview many people from Johnson's early life who had not been honestly forthcoming in prior statements.
Caro's writing style is somewhat repetitive and loaded with questions (What would this mean for Johnson's future?
-- paragraphs just all questions), but in the end Caro's dogged style means that you get his point and know where the story is heading.I intended to read this book just a few pages every night while focusing on my other reading commitments, but that was not possible.
I got drawn into Johnson's life story and couldn't put it down.
Even so, Johnson, in some respects, appears more enigmatic and sphinx-like after finishing the book and I have a feeling that while a great portion of his political life may be chronicled, Lyndon Johnson the man may take a phalanx of psychoanalysts all working with Caro's assiduity to understand what formed LBJ and led to many of his sometimes inexplicable and contradictory actions.Some aspects of LBJ seem clear.
His mother infused his life with poetry and high culture but at school he was a lackluster student who did not take much interest in his studies.Johnson did seem to excel, even from an early age, in getting others to do his bidding and using his considerable charm to sway others to his way of thinking.
As someone who rarely reads non-fiction, and has little interest in the intricacies of American politics, I was somewhat surprised, when I got through the first hundred or so pages, to find myself loving Caro's account of the early life and political career of LBJ.
So, if you're wondering whether it's worth a read, consider this: I've always hated biographies, and I don't much care for politics, but after spending two months crawling through Volume 1 of "The Years of Lyndon Johnson," I can't wait to get cracking on Volume 2.
Also called, adventures with Jumbo volume one!
I started to read Eat Pray Love when I was on page 150 or so of this masterpiece (I had to, for a deadline), and I got derailed.
I'm at the homestretch of my own book and I really need to read some novels right now, to help me out.
I am in fact lusting after a few specific ones right now.
Help me!So, it is with great sadness and disappointment in myself that I put this book down.
I hope to pick this up after I finish my love affairs with various novels...I am sincerely sorry to Patrick for quitting like this.
