https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/461749.The_Glory_of_Their_Times
All these were honored in their generation,And were the glory of their times.Ecclesiasticus  44:7 Boston Red Sox, spring traing, 1915. Hot Springs ArkansasHighlighted players, left to rightSmokey Joe WoodDutch LeonardBabe RuthCarl MaysGermany Schaefer (not on team, happened to be in town)(to enlarge photo, click, click again on Flickr)This is a TOP TEN book in my baseball library.Availability. IN PRINT – New, used, Kindle, audio – all available.Type. PLAYERS/ERA/HISTORYUse. READ/[EH?] _explanati
Ty Cobb symbolized America from the turn of the century to World War I perhaps better than any other single figure, just as Babe Ruth symbolized America between the wars.Ritter took this task upon himself, and over the next several years found time to travel 75,000 miles with a tape recorder, tracking down men who had played the game in the early part of the century.
(hide spoiler)] And the toughness of those old players, being injured more often because of the equipment, the playing conditions, the hard to see balls, then continuing to play when injured (only 17 man rosters in the game until around 1910).
This book is a transcription of interviews with baseball players who played around the turn of the century.
It was mentioned in the book that the evolution of the ball itself really changed the sport.
I also learned about Jim Thorpe (http://www.cmgww.com/sports/thorpe/) and pretty much had my heart broken over it.
They took his medals back and removed his name from the record books.
This is the part of the story that broke my heart: "Jim was very proud of the great things he'd done.
My oh my,, I enjoyed this audiobook SO much! I had a couple of afternoons of yard work ahead of me and I was in the mood for something "light"...This felt like I was sitting in a bar listening to the old timers talking about playing with Ty Cobb, Babe Ruth and Walter Johnson in a game that--let's face it, only vaguely resembles the business of baseball in our modern era.Great stories, told in interview form. So good. I laughed, I cried... I wanted to crack open a beer when it was all done.Highly recommend!
This is, hands down, the best baseball book I have ever read!
Walter Johnson was quoted as saying that not a man alive could pitch faster than Smokey Joe Wood.
They talked about Lou Gehrig, Babe Ruth, Ty Cobb, and Honus Wagner, who, apparently truly was one of the greatest players to ever play the game.
Perhaps every time I get frustrated with today's crybabies, and every time baseball breaks my heart like it did in 2011, I'll pick this book up and fall in love with it all over again.
If you are a baseball fan, read this book.
This is a wonderful book, nostalgic but still powerful.
The author tape recorded interviews with many old-time baseball players in the mod 1960s.
He essential transcribed the recordings and published them in this book.
The result is a first person narrative by many players from the very late 1800s through the 1940s.
Each gives his sense of their career, their times, and the game of baseball.
The vignettes also provide a sense of what baseball was like in the very late 19th century and first half of the 20th century.For baseball fans, this classic is still well worth reading.
A fascinating and, at times, moving account of the early days of baseball, told by the players themselves. Amongst the many stories you will hear of the player who stole 1st base... from 2nd!... and the man who turned an unassisted triple play in the World Series. Even if you've no interest in the game itself, the audiobook (actually a compendium of interview footage with the players themselves) will hold you captive through sheer charm alone. I'd recommend this to anyone.
Ritter's book, The Glory of Their Times: The Story Of The Early Days Of Baseball Told By The Men Who Played It. This book was absolutely fantastic, and I wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone with any interest at all in baseball.
It's absolutely fascinating to hear these players echoing through the decades and describing the way they played the game, their careers, their teammates, their managers, the business of baseball, and even the fans of the day as seen from the player's view.One of the aspects of the book that I enjoyed most is that many of the players discuss the same events or players, including each other, and it's great getting different takes on all of that.
This is the book to be read by those who wish to truly understand the history of baseball. It is stories told to the author by those who lived them, including some of the very best of professional baseball's early players. I own several large shelves of baseball books, but this is the one I lend out the most and I recommend it to anyone who asks.
Great read on the beginning of baseball and the talented players. If you like baseball like me then this is the book for you.
But I still remember the exact location of the pitch that lost my Little League championship when I was 15.That's the most impressive part about this book: the amazingly detailed recollections of old ballplayers about their playing days decades earlier.
They can remember stats, conversations, and crazy plays with such clarity and enthusiasm it'll make you wish Ritter had interviewed even more players.
Reading these stories feels like sitting on your grandpa's knee while he regales you for hours.
Not my grandpa, though, he's 90 and it would crush him.I would consider this book essential reading for anyone who loves baseball.
One of the all-time great baseball books.
I was missing baseball and decided to buy The Glory of Their Times: The Story of the Early Days of Baseball Told by the Men Who Played It when I noticed that there was an audible version with the actual taped interviews from the players themselves.
Listening to the old baseball greats talk about themselves and their fellow players gave me the chills.
Even though these players were grossly underpaid by today's standards, none of them are bitter about it and many say, even looking back, they would have played for free.
It's great to listen to them reminisce.
Stumbled on this book that claimed to be the best baseball book ever published.
Each chapter is essentially a different ballplayer from the early 20th century waxing poetic about different teammates, managers, and opponents.
It was fascinating to hear their largely respectful testimony, but it was more surprising to read about many of the similarities they had with modern day ballplayers--contractual issues, struggles in their early big-league days, choices between playing and getting an education, and so on.
Wonderful, and as an avid baseball fan myself, many of the names drummed up memories of when I was a kid studiously poring through all the old hall-of-famers' (et al) names and stats with reverence.
This... this was an incredible read for me and will be for any real fan of baseball. A great collection of interviews with players from the old days, Hall-of-Famers and not quite HOFers talking about the game the way they played it and lived it. I was given this book by another fan, and in turn, I sent it to another fan in the hopes that my copy would be something of a "chain book," passed on from fan-to-fan until it fell apart. It is that worth sharing.
I could happily reread every year.
In one of the greatest contributions to preserving the history of professional baseball through the lengthy process of tracking down and interviewing the long-ago retired players that made the early era what it is, Lawrence Ritter’s “The Glory of Their Times” deserves every ounce of credit and appreciation it has ever accumulated, and then some.
A total of 26 noteworthy ballplayers, most of whom began their professional careers before 1920, provided their oral history to this seldom-known writer in the early 1960s (though four interviews were not conducted until the 1984 edition), shortly after the death of the all-time great Ty Cobb.
Twenty-six stories about boys becoming men and men remaining boys because of a game they loved. Indeed, these are love stories.
Fred Merkle, a rookie first baseman for the Giants, was making his first start ever in a major league baseball game.
With two outs, Al Bridewell then hit an apparent single to centerfield scoring McCormick and winning the game for the Giants.
Fred Snodgrass, the Giants’ centerfielder, defended Merkle when Ritter interviewed Snodgrass decades later.
Merkle only did what the players had been doing all season, according to Snodgrass.Before the Cubs’ miraculous come back victory in game 7 last year, many historians of baseball had considered the Red Sox comeback in the bottom of the 10th of game eight of the 1912 World Series to be the greatest in World Series history.
The print version of this book is basically transcriptions of conversations with several old time ball players who played in the first few decades of the 20th century. The audiobook gives you the actual recordings themselves - you get to hear the voices of these great old players telling their stories, which is an experience worth having.
Fascinating book on the early history of baseball during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, as told by some of the men who played the game.
So each chapter is a different player telling us their memories of their time in baseball.
They told stories not only of themselves, but of many of the guys they played with as well.
It gives you a real insight into the players, the game itself and how it was played back then compared to how it is played today.
And when I say "today" I actually mean the 1960s since that is when this book was written.
Excellent book about old-time baseball as told by the players that played.
Really 4.5 starsIn the early/mid 1960's, Ritter sort of realized that the old-time baseball players were dying off (well, they *were* born in the 1880s), and set out to interview some of the surviving ones.
Each chapter here is a different player, told in their own voices.
I'm not sure if I would have gotten the same enjoyment if I hadn't once been a 9-yr-old fascinated with baseball statistics.
It's also a hoot to hear them talk a little about players and the game as it exists "now" (in the 1960's).
How they can't believe how slow the games are!
It is a series of oral histories by famous baseball players from around 1900-1920.
However, he talked to about 20 former players and then essentially transcribed their conversations.
I was nearly crying, I was laughing so hard a few times and it is interesting to learn how different the game was in those days.
Most of the stories didn't just focus on baseball but talked about life in that time period, so it was an excellent read overall.
I would recommend this strongly to anyone who likes baseball or even history.
"The Glory Of Their Times" remains a timeless work, and can be enjoyed by more than just hard-core baseball fans.
Basically the story of the early days of Major League Baseball, told by the surviving oldsters who had played it, "The Glory Of Their Times" works so well because it isn't just another opinion piece by a professional writer.
The stories told by these players illustrate what life was like during the first few decades of the twentieth century better than any historian could.
These players played for the love of the game, and fans could relate to them better because of that.
Filled with stories and pictures from the deadball era, as told through the recollections of several players who were there.In the introduction, the author tells us the idea for this collection came to him on the death of Ty Cobb, widely regarded as one of the greatest players in baseball history.
The resultant book is a top baseball bestseller and the original audio tapes are themselves in the baseball hall of fame.This rating is based on the enlarged edition, published in 1984, and frequently re-read.
This reading is of the audio version from the library, which is a subset of the original tapes with Larry Ritter's introductions.
It ends with John "Chief" Meyers reading Casey at the Bat.
This is a ridiculously fun book for pretty much any baseball fan.
The text is all transcriptions of ballplayers from the 00's 10's and 20's talking about their playing years.
But by far the most entertaining thing is how frequently the editor and the players talk about how much better baseball was in their day vs.
the "present" (meaning the early 60s when the book was published).
Some things never change.
I can't wait to be an old man talking about the glory days of baseball in the 90s.
The famous baseball announcer Red Barber wasn't kidding when he called this "the best baseball book of all time." What I loved abut the book was how author Lawrence Ritter was able to get the retired players to tell him fascinating and often hilarious stories about their fellow ballplayers around the turn of the century.
Ritter writes the book by putting together the players answers to his questions to form an oral history (he doesn't list his questions), making the book flow easily from one story to the next.
I won't begin this review by referring to The Glory of Their Times as an astounding oral history of baseball in the early 20th Century.
Crawford marvels over a time when people in general were individuals, not conformists molded by newspaper and television.
This book will erase whatever cliches you associate with the very idea of a "national pasttime," and inject it with images of boys riding horse-driven wagons through the Midwest to play against their small-town-American peers.
Reading this is like having your grandpa telling you about how great the old days were.
Having him tell you about playing with Cy Young, Honus Wagner, or how big a jerk Ty Cobb was.A buddy of mine tipped me off that you can find cds of the actual interviews with the ballplayers.
But it's mors than just baseball.
The ballplayers' stories about traveling to find work, living on a train, and struggling to survive are fascinating.
Charles "Victory" Faust by himself makes this book worth reading.
This book is a treasure, even if you're not a baseball lover.
The Glory of Their Times is a great book for any baseball fan.
It contains the stories of 26 of the greats of the game from the first half of the twentieth century, as they remember them.
The book is filled with tales of triumph and tragedy and memories that span the range of human emotion.
The astounding feats,amazing careers and humorous anecdotes are too numerous to list.
Every players' story is unique, but they are all united by their love for the game of baseball.
I encourage all enthusiasts (spectators or participants) of our national pastime to read this book.
