https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1021198.The_Meaning_of_Meaning
This theory gives eight ways to define a symbol so that both listener and speaker may be clear they are interpreting the symbol as the same referent: 1) Symbolization2) Similarity3) Spatial Relations4) Temporal Relations5) Physical Causation6) Psychological Causation7) Psycho-physical Causation8) Being the Object of a Mental StateOf course, there are other ways of defining symbols, but most of them are specific to a special subject (such as legal definitions) and most (if not all) of them can be reduced to the eight mentioned above.One of the most interesting ideas of the Theory of Definition is that there are definitions that do not mean anything and therefore act purely as irritants, supporting a particular orator simply by confusing his audience.
The title is apt, but also guaranteed to be a let down, because if anything the book doesn't come close to providing any meaning of meaning, although that is what it is about.As considered, the text was revolutionary for its time.
In this sense, as an influential marker of the time, it is well worth studying, although our grasp on the subject has passed this book up.
But as a precise marker of the conversation today, it is meaningless since it doesn't add anything -- it presents no new logic, no new formalistic relations we might use, so to speak.Given my curiousity on the subject, I can't pass up reading a title like this.
Well, there are some real gems in this book.
Sometimes I can rate a book by how much I write on the margins of the book.
I write a lot in the margins of this book.
Sometimes it isn't really from the ideas in the book as much as they provoke my thinking about my ideas.
I also like the historical aspect of reading a book that is about 90 years old and those (at that time) new authors he quotes and I also like his love (and my love) of footnotes.

Okay. Less fun than Philosophy of Rhetoric was, and less immediately applicable to rhetoric. Darn structuralists--seems like I'm becoming quite well-read in them quite inadvertently. There are maybe 3 or 4 chapters that are fulfilling, and, admittedly, it took a little cross-research to understand what they were shooting for. On the plus side, I got to contribute to Wikipedia on this one. Can I count that as a publication?
Supplement II reinforced my nominalism.
