https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18713551-the-woman-s-bible
“We should give to our rulers, our sires and sons no rest until all our rights—social, civil and political—are fully accorded.” —StantonYes. The Woman’s Bible sets out to discuss the far reaching effects that this most widely read, and often revered, publication has had on the rights of and attitudes towards one half of the population.Why this text is still relevant:  “As long as our religion teaches woman’s subjection and man’s right of domination, we shall have chaos in the world of morals.” —StantonAmen Elizabeth!
“The greatest block to advancing civilization all along the line has been the degradation of women.” — Stanton It’s also worth noting that Frances Ellen Burr includes a discussion on other translations and commentaries in the works and recently published at the time of The Woman’s Bible’s publication.
This book is free on Amazon!
Really fascinating to read such a bold piece of feminist work from the 1800's.
ECS had some major moxie to take such a taboo position in those times.
I'm not interested in the heavy Bible Study aspect of this book.
But since the Bible was used as a source of authority by which to oppress women, I appreciate the efforts and risk these women took on by critiquing a book many hold to be untouchable.
ECS asserts that the Bible should be judged like any other book; by its merits.
The title, "The Woman's Bible: A Classic Feminist Perspective".....Then the name of the author Elizabeth Cady Stanton....HELL YES!Before even reading it, I dare say I automatically confirmed it's awesomeness without even reading it.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and bunch of other women part of the committee joined together to comment about the bible.
Let me just give you a piece of what this book does:"We hear the opinion often expressed, that woman always has, and always will be in subjection.
For a loving God, he sure treats the 'Mother's of the race' like shit.
Oooh, ECS has some dodgy views going on.Book looks like fun, though. Anything that gets you ostracised from the feminist movement for being too progressive... She and Anne Bronte should form a club.--------The most interesting thing about this book is the appendix, which contains letters of response from ladies in the US and UK, almost all of which are fascinating.Review to follow.
She also points out the absurity of ancient laws that scorn a woman's natural sexuality and biology--for example, the "purification of women," which meant that menstruating women or new mothers were banned from religious sancuaries and ceremonies because of the perfectly normal and natural presence of blood.
Stanton notes that such laws not only degrade motherhood but also discriminate against sex, honoring the birth of a son above that of a daughter (95).
She also asserts that the Apostel Paul could have had more faith in women's ability to do good works and been less concerned about their apparel.
I'm all for women having equality under the authority of God, but those who've read the bible with an open heart can clearly see that at no time was woman ever oppressed unjustly because of her sex (save being stoned for adultery, which Jesus clearly made right in his fulfillment of the law).
I would encourage any woman to read the bible for herself, to see how women were used by God to save their families, cities, and entire kingdoms; how they were used as prophets and even birthed the Messiah himself.
This is interesting in documenting how far Elizabeth Cady Stanton’s questioning ways took her from conventional thought, and how her path created rifts in the women’s movement.
But often such a heavy hand misses the chance to really impress by a more nuanced critique.Her co-authors provide more substantive historical analysis.There is an interesting section on the Kabbalah and its emphasis on the feminine aspects of God. The main body of the work consists of sections of scripture that pertain to women (either as actors or subjects of religious precepts/laws) followed by comments from Stanton and her co-authors.
After this follow very interesting letters from a wide range of eminent women to whom Stanton sent a copy of the first part and two questions: 1.
Interesting. The disheartening thing is how women and feminists seem to still be essentially fighting the same battles outlined here.
She states that Deborah (a judge and general) did not see herself "fit to lead an army." According to ECS we should feel sorry for Sisera's mother who was "watching and praying...for the return of her only son, while at the same time Jael performs her "deadly deed" overlooking the fact that Sisera had a reputation for kidnapping young girls and dividing them up among his men, a practice his mother both knows of and approves.
ECS even goes so far as to add the color of donkeys or the definite presence of pets even though they have nothing to do with the passages on which she comments.
Interestingly she refers to different versions of the bible that had different interpretations and to stories that have been overlooked or buried to support certain views.
And I think that fact that some much of this was all too familiar in my own experiences never mind those of women world-wide shows that even now, over a 120 years after it's first publication, there is still much to be changed.
Anthony may have been the better politician, Stanton remains my favorite feminist.Pg. 64 As the Bible is placed in the hands of children and uneducated men and women to point them the way of salvation, the letter should have no doubtful meaning.
What should we think of guide posts on our highways, if we needed a symbolical interpreter at every point to tell us which way to go?
Learned men have revised the Scriptures times without number, and I do not propose to go back of the latest Revision.
Например, истории о Фамари (невестке Иуды) и дочерях Лота просто сочли недостойными включения в "Женскую Библию", история о Дине, дочери Иакова, упоминается, но без подробностей.Хотя некоторые толкования могли устареть или изначально были не слишком точными, но книга кажется мне ценной до сих пор и, увы, многое не изменилось по сей день.Приведу еще одну цитату из Элизабет Кэйди Стэнтон, которая мне очень понравилась, особенно своей актуальностью:"Когда вы указываете на то, что простым английским языком Библия сообщает нам о сказанном Богом своему народу относительно женщин, и никак нельзя отвертеться от унижающего женщин библейского учения об их положении, тогда они [оппоненты] прячутся за неправильными переводами, интерпретациями и символическими значениями.
This is a fascinating look into what progressive women were thinking at the time. Despite the commentary being from the late 1800s many of the viewpoints and insights still hold up today. Should be required reading. Loved it.
I believe her father once told her, " I wish you had been a boy"
It is good to know where you come from as a feminist (or anyone for that matter.)The Woman's Bible is a tome by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, a leader of the early women's rights movement, devoted to showing how the church and state edited the Bible to subjugate women.
(If you have PTSD from being raised a radical Christian, it may not be for you.) Another observation from studying the author and early feminism: Many in our day and time want to judge E.C. Stanton and Susan B.
Anthony by today's political correctness/mores/values......
Today's values don't apply to them because they lived in another time and place.
Stanton and committee take verses in the bible, old and new testaments, that directly refer to women.
Greek and Hebrew scholars are responsible for translation from the original work, others are historians and put their talents to use there, and the last of the committee will be "commentators".
This is a Women’s look at some of the original text and how they should be interrupted by today’s woman (1900’s).
In my opinion, these men and women, really knew their stuff!
It was quite interesting to see some of the verses translated from the original text and how the "suppressed" women of the 1800's viewed them.
The book is a very argumentive about how women were subjected as mere servants versus strong individuals. In my opinion it's feminist propaganda but it also summarized how important women truly were in the Bible. So that's why I'm giving it three stars.
A Window into feminist herstoryI found The Woman's Bible to be profound and thought provoking. Oh, how I wish I had read it 40 years sooner. Better late than never. Every young woman/girl needs to read it.
That said, she gets pretty dogmatic in here :)A few of my favorite quotes:"Like the tables of stone the Bible is written on both sides; or it has a letter which is its exterior and an interior spirit or meaning.
Error in a premise compels error in conclusions.""The time has come to read [the Bible] as we do all other books, accepting the good and rejecting the evil it teaches.""Humanity is not alone dual in the two forms, male and female, but every soul is dual.
'Force without love can but work evil until it is spent.'""The religion of Jesus is a voluntary acceptance of truth.
Published in the late nineteenth century, THE WOMEN'S BIBLE was an unbelievably progressive book for its time, and is still progressive for modern times.
Her goal was that, through reading and considering THE WOMAN'S BIBLE, females would not again allow an external source to dictate the ways in which they lived.
Women's lives are as equally valid, valuable, and necessary as those of men.
It was through men's adaptation of the religious texts, through translation and teaching, skewed towards a male-dominated scheme.
Yet, it provided a very interesting view on society, specifically woman's rights, during that time.
I must admit, I skimmed much of the last 30 pages or so, because I was a little overwhelmed by all the names and storylines mentioned!This is actually a compilation of writings from many authors, or the revising committee as they call themselves.
The book followed the different books of the Old and New Testament, providing commentary and insight into the women of the bible.
Many aspects of woman's rights were discussed, including how the Bible is actually pro-woman in parts but is either overlooked by the religious superiors (at the time) or twisted into becoming something else.
I think it's funny and sad that when you first learn about ECS and her counterparts in American history classes in high school, you never hear of this side of her; all you learn about is her suffragist political work.Unfortunately things get a bit repetitive (even allowing for the fact that the Bible itself is repetitive and it's understandable that commentary would be too) and quickly slide into antisemitism.
No wonder Emma Goldman didn't get along with her and they parted ways.
I much prefer Goldman as a freethinking feminist, especially for her anarchist politics.
Awful.
One of the worst books I have ever read.
The following are sorely missing in this publication: logic, research, knowledge of ancient texts, knowledge of ancient history, basic knowledge of Christianity, reasoning, etc.
The list goes on.Perhaps because it is so focused on Protestantism that it seems so theologically flawed to me, a Catholic, but some things are so basic it makes it extremely challenging to believe the author attended a seminary.
In the end, the author shows complete ignorance of so many tenets and teachings it completely misses the mark in supporting the conclusion she wants desperately to draw.
The Woman's Bible has been on my mental to-read list since I first heard about it. I am fascinated by the premise and the courage of the contributors to publish this document when they did. I did enjoy certain sections, mostly from a history of feminist thought perspective, but I found the organization less than desirable. The book is broken up biblical chapter by biblical chapter, rather than thematically. This leads to repetition, and most aggrievedly, a lack of overall analysis on the representation of women and gender roles in the bible.
The women's bibleThe Women's Bible by Elizabeth Cady Stanton is an interesting take on the Bible. It is worth reading. I highly recommend this book.
I found a lot of value in this, even though it was written so long ago-- you'd think more would have improved for women since then, alas! I was relieved that Jesus, at least, was not judged anti-woman (that would indeed be hard to prove!). Elizabeth Cady Stanton was obviously an amazing person... I must learn more about her.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton and her colleagues in feminism take apart the Bible book by book, illuminating passages that, as they say, retard the progress of women. Some of these passages are still in question today. A very bold work for its time.
This is a collection of essays by many different authors. Stanton takes the cake though. She's brilliant! Her take on the Bible stories is very interesting, especially in the context of the 1890s when it was written.
God's Word is alive and the source for all my daily needs. I will never finish this book until I meet my beloved Savior in Glory! It tells me greatest truth known to man - That God so loved the world (You and Me)that He gave His Only Begotten Son that we should not perish but have eternal life.
It is really hard to sum up my feelings for this awesome book in a short review. The translation is powerful, important, and critical for our spiritual well being. This should be read as a devotional text, as well as critically. It offers great wisdom for all, regardless of gender.
