https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7665.Travels
Let me say, first of all, that I have read damn near all of Michael Crichton's work, from books to speeches to magazine articles.
"Travels" is a book about Crichton's journeys, both inward and outward, which helped to shape his fantastically open-minded, critical, discerning approach to the world.
I first read this book in 2008.
This book changed my life and my way of thinking.
I truly learned, grew, changed because of Crichton's analysis of the things he experienced.
After reading this book I began to question things that I had not questioned in a long time.
That makes it their problem).At times, I felt like Crichton learned the same lessons over and over (and over) without realizing that he was dealing with the same problem throughout his life.The account ends with an essay criticizing the scientific community for its skepticism of psychic phenomena rather than the introspective conclusion I'd been expecting throughout the book.Basically, it would be easy to dismiss the whole of this book using any one or two parts of it.The only exception might be his descriptions of med school, which are raw and vividly described.
This book has personality, so I'm not inclined to dismiss it.And let's not forget this advice from David Brooks, which goes something like "our character is defined by our attempts to wrestle with our personal flaws." Brooks does not mention our victory lap after defeating or solving our flaws.
Usually I avoid the most popular books, but because of a high recommendation I decided to read up on Michael Crichton, the author of books like Jurassic Park and Congo.The book begins with Michael, the medical student, figuring out how to use a chainsaw to cut the head of a cadaver in half.
First I thought that he was a de Vinci doing some research for a book.
However, he did attend medical school supported by his “side-job” of writing books.
I especially love the chapter entitled “They”.The seeds were planted in the doubts of his medical school training.
He would try psychics, healers, spend days talking to a cactus, and then goes traveling to an astral plane.This is a wonderful book.
I found it appalling that Michael Crichton so calmly depicts waiting outside a brothel in Asia while his host has sex with children.
I suppose we're supposed to think he's a good guy for not indulging himself, but the fact that he is having a conversation with someone while they wait, and never objecting or contacting authorities is shocking to me.
After reading this book, I don't know that I'd even be able to think of Crichton as a good man.The rest of the stories are ok, but a lot of his "travels" are metaphysical, which is not what I was expecting.
After reading Travels, I think I'll just cross them off.
Travels is one of my favorite books. I've read it at least three times in my life. It is Michael Crichton's autobiography detailing his life in medical school, but most of all his travels around the world. Each chapter is a new adventure and Dr. Crichton makes you feel as if you are right there with him! I definitely recommend this book to anyone that likes to travel or just wants a fun, entertaining, read.
To that end, I loved this book because Crichton talks about his experiences and observations, how he looks at them retrospectively, how they have affected him over a period of time, what he learnt, his self-discoveries, his self-explorations, his open-minded trysts with psychic phenomena and his clinical attempts at understanding them scientifically.Most critiques about the book seem to have had the wrong expectations from it.
You can actually see Crichton's discerning and open-minded approach to life further develop, as he questions, analyzes and deeply introspects along with you.Somewhere, especially in the parts on psychic phenomena, I felt it was actually me who was in there, and for a non-fiction book, that is startlingly good.
Perhaps, on significant issues this would seem like a person who does not believe in anything, and therefore falls for anything – but these were all petty affairs, such as visiting a psychiatrist – whom he finds to be a waste of time – until his friend tells him that the guy probably would not make time to see him anyway – leading Crichton to panic that perhaps his case is not interesting or important, and he makes an appointment right away!!!The chapter dearest to my heart is on his experience with the Mountain Gorillas.
So I saw the movie, read the book, and then got obsessed with Michael Crichton for the rest of my adolescence.
I got a signed Jurassic Park postcard saying "Best wishes, Michael Crichton." That was nice.I read Travels for the first time when I was 14 or 15.
How would this affect my perception of the book that my former self loved?"It is not easy to cut through a human head with a hacksaw." I remembered the opening line, verbatim, 20 years after reading it.
When I first read the book as a teenager, I had never heard of spoon-bending, auras, chakras, or such.
This book came highly recommended, but I was disappointed in Crichton's travel book.
There were several stories relating to Crichton's experiences in exotic places, but much of it was preoccupied with his early years in medical school and later, dealings with meditation, mystics, and his inner journey, which was not at all what I was expecting or looking for.
The one good thing that came out of my reading this book was my decision to write a travel book of my own.
I've certainly been to as many interesting places as Crichton, and had just as many interesting experiences.
Some of the travel essays were amazing. Witty, elucidating, and cogent. Beautifully written with his very human and universal emotions coming off the page. Some of his insights on relationships were mind shaking. His different perspective fresh and illuminating. And some of his irrational and non-scientific beliefs were shocking. But overall a book about what it is to be human. Interesting and a good read. On par with and certainly better than some of his fiction.
Either he's just done a great job of convincing himself and thus he "sees" what he wants to see; or I'm genuinely missing out on an entire plane of existence.Update 6-2-13:I was premature in delivering that review, as I was a couple chapters away from the end and jumped to conclusions.
Chricton actually did a great job closing up the book with a persuasive defense laid out logically and objectively of his "transformation" from an academic/scientific/traditional thinker to one who allows for and believes in at least the possibility of metaphysical and psychic phenomena.
But what makes it more than a jerk-off self-important autobiography is how Crichton talks openly and honestly about his search for truth and meaning in life.
His adventures– and misadventures– span the entire world and beyond, venturing into the realm of metaphysics and transcendental meditation.We travel with Crichton to the top of Mount Kilimanjaro and witness the disintegration of his marriage.
But I was left with more of a sense of how we are all connected to each other, possibly on a quantum mechanics level, even.Reader beware, this nonfiction book pushes the boundaries of believability at points, especially toward the end as Crichton begins to see auras and discovers he might be possessed by a few demons.But it was a hell of a ride and everything I had hoped it could be.
This book could be divided into three parts: Crichton's time as a medical student at Harvard; his travels; and his foray into psychic stuff, so I'll divide my review up the same way.➽  Harvard Medical School I love this book so much, and I haven’t even reached the part that I picked the book up for (the travels, of course). In this first part, Crichton describes his time as a medical student at Harvard and what lead him to quitting medicine just as he graduated to become a writer instead. (And s
This book could be divided into three parts: Crichton's time as a medical student at Harvard; his travels; and his foray into psychic stuff, so I'll divide my review up the same way.➽ 
They start talking and he helps Crichton realize that he’s rather insecure about his life despite all his successes.
I was so disgusted and sad he would have even stepped foot into that place in the first place.In Shangri-la, he visits the people of Hunza where he claims that people live to be 140 years old on a diet of apricots and are immune to disease.Upon doing some research, it turns out that Shangri-la is just a ficitional place mentioned in a 1933 novel by James Hilton.
Michael Crichton describes waiting for a mutual friend to come back from molesting a child, then listens to the man's description of what happened, without comment or criticism.
But Crichton does complain a page later when the locals started laughing about his height.
Is anyone surprised that Hollywood is still full of fucking assholes?This was a profoundly unpleasant, self-centered, non-practicing doctor who paid a psychologist high rates to tell him he didn't like himself enough.
Only read the first 20 pages or so, but pay special attention to his strong complaints when people laugh at him for being tall, versus what happens 2 pages earlier.
This was my second time reading this (it's been a little over 10 years since the last read) but I really enjoyed it again.
It's a "page turner," and it confirmed something I've been noticing this year: it's super-interesting to read memoirs that are only slightly out-of-date (versus, you know, Ben Franklin's memoir).
This was written about Crichton's literal travel plus his metaphysical experiences in the '70's and '80's, and it was so intriguing to notice the big and little changes that have come about since then.
Even Crichton's thoughts and attitudes are interesting, and sometimes anachronistic.
Michael Crichton, ubermensch (medical doctor, best-selling novelist, screenwriter and film director--all by the age of 30), wrote a book about traveling, both to places like Borneo and Tibet, as well as to inner destinations: spirituality, astral-projection, self-hypnosis, spoon-bending, channeling, etc.Clearly, for all his remarkable intellectual gifts, Crichton was not given a spiritual barometer when he was young.
I believe you can travel anywhere if you want to badly enough.
And I believe exactly the same thing is true of inner travel.
He also reveals how a true student of life deals with doubt: he sets out to get the information to either prove or disprove it.
I thought I was really going to like this book, despite the fact that it really is *very* different than what you'd think.
But then he began to come across as a very repulsive person, and I'm just glad he isn't an author I read much of, or he'd have ruined his books for me.
Lots of dangerous, ridiculous New Age mumbo-jumbo...and then he visits a child whorehouse.
He goes in, looks at the the little 7 and 8 year old children being "sexy", and while he decides not to actually have sex with a child himself, his friends do.
I'll be avoiding anything more put out by Crichton, whether books or films.
Before reading this my impression of Crichton was that he seemed incredibly smart, was scientific in his thinking, and was very straight-laced.
However, after reading this book, which is part travelogue and part autobiography, almost everything I guessed about him (except being incredibly smart) turned out to be wrong.
Crichton discusses his fascination with seeing people's auras, channeling other energies, psychics, etc and spends a lot of his time learning how to do these things.
You get the impression of a man who carries deeply rooted dysfunctions and doesn't feel like he fits in with the world.
The entire book comes off as painfully honest and that makes it even more interesting.
Ardent Michael Crichton fan, so the review would be a bit biased. I loved it!It was a knowledgeable treat along with very powerful writing. For instance, I came to know about how unfair and cruel the US was (and probably still is) to unwed mothers. It was also nice to know how Michael transformed his career from a medical field to becoming a full-time author and then experimenting with being a director. All in all, a great read. Highly recommended!
I haven't given his fiction the time of day, but I was captivated by his real life experiences. He certainly knows how to tell a story, and man, he has some good ones. I can def. see where he gets his fuel for writing based on his reservoir of adventures.
After reading this book, I realized that I never want to meet Michael Crichton. Ever.
O carte personala in care se vorbeste despre omul Michael Crichton.Excelenta, la fel ca el.N-are rost sa precizez ca a fost scriitorul cu cel mai mare succes din generatia sa (nici Stephen King nu l-a intrecut).Cartile lui ar trebui sa fie referinta obligatorie pentru cititorii romani.
This book is a great read. A lot of gems about perspective, education, experiences and ways of living life.
I enjoyed Chrichton’s essays about both his world adventure travels and his inner travels exploring the psychic and spiritual worlds. His spare, self-deprecating style made me smile at situations he got into and he set the tone right from the start with schoolboy tales of his Harvard education to become a doctor. I also admired his bright mind and curiosity-driven gumption as he pursued “direct experiences”. The final essay on the validity of research into parapsychology is impressive as he demonstrates why we need the observations of both the mystic and the scientist. The two need not be opposed.
The chapter called "A Day at the BLI" was about different women's experiences in the delivery room, and packed more punch per page than anything I had read in a while.
There's a lot of self-observation happening, too, particularly regarding relationships with the various women going through his life at these times.Also as the book progresses, he starts exploring different types of experiences as well.
Some of this material is more fascinating to me than the stuff that I expected the book to be about.
Especially the first two thirds.#1: he travels around the world#2: he gets all new-agey, progressively more and more.As always, and as the ultimate critic I like to try to focus my reviews on my own personal experiences with a book.
Focus on what will make you happy in life!He reminds me of those people who are all sharp when young, and then sort of turn into a person who, as they get older, starts to get more and more facts wrong, and a more wonky perception of reality.
Whatever it was, I immediately added that climb to my life list.
I also learned a good deal about meditation, chakras, and aura (I know, sounds odd for a travel narrative but trust me, it fits and it works) that altered my thinking about the body and Eastern philosophy regarding it.
Each chapter is a different travel and within each one the author discovers something about himself and his world.
These discoveries are rewarding for the reader as well and truly elevates this travel narrative above all others.
I've often wanted to re-read different chapters at various times in my life but didn't have the book readily available.
I confess I've never read a novel by Michael Crichton (though I have seen some of his films and films based on his works), but after reading this non-fiction book of his, I'm more inclined to give some of his fictional work a chance.
One of the things that most surprised me about Crichton is that he had this other side to him which didn't seem to appear in his fictional writings, which appear to be more based in rational science (although I could be wrong since I haven't actually read any of them beyond the usual synopsis).
Strange things start happening and I found them hard to believe, especially coming from a former doctor and skeptical critic of global warming and second-hand smoke.Crichton's writing is wonderful, the stories are personal and interesting, and each one ends with a bit of insight.
He was a very intelligent and thoughtful person, and I really liked him for most of the book, but when someone expects me to believe that you can bend a spoon with your mind...I'm sorry - I just can't buy that one.
I don't know what to think of Crichton now...I somewhat believe that he may have been a mixed up person.
It has essentially three main focuses: his training at medical school, his travels, and his spirituality.The book begins with his medical school horror stories and then moves on to his quirky travel adventures.
Whether you believe in any of it or not, it’s interesting to read such sincere and unapologetic accounts of spiritual experimentation from a well educated and well known man.
He doesn’t hold anything back when he tells stories of trying to speak with his spiritual guide, a disfigured old cactus, or having an exorcism performed on himself.He had an interest in psychic phenomenon at a young age, decided to investigate it further as a skeptic, and eventually became a believer.
