https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77662.A_Shilling_for_Candles
But when the dead woman is identified as Christine Clay, famous British actress and Hollywood star, Inspector Grant's task, already quite a puzzle, becomes an ordeal.This second Inspector Grant mystery is better than the first, but it would still take more than ten years before Tey would include him in her first masterpiece, The Franchise Affair.
Hitchcock and his writers altered a lot of the plot—including eliminating Grant entirely and changing the identity of the murderer--but it is a charming and memorable film nonetheless, one of the best of the director's British period.
I do love a good garden path wander!)Mysterious and charismatic actress Christine Clay is found drowned.
Or is it someone from the past that Clay has been reinventing?And she used to tell a different story each time.
But I'm hoping someone from the Reading the Detectives group can explain the significance of a King's Writ!This novel was also wittier than the other Tey's I have read;And Hopkins, seeing that Tisdall was unaware of Grant’s identity, rushed in with glad maliciousness.
Never had an unsolved crime to his name.” “I hope you write my obituary,” Grant said.
In this outing, Inspector Grant has his work cut out for him.
And the only clue they have is a button.Once again, Josephine Tey writes a classically woven whodunit with threads of different colors and lengths loosely throwing menace and mayhem in many different directions.
As the story proceeds, those threads are gathered tighter and tighter until a design starts to appear.This was a very enjoyable read – light, but with sufficient heft to set my detecting urges on a jog.
I didn’t solve this one until Inspector Grant made his arrest, but the good news is, I have 4 more tries in this series to get there before he does!
I must admit that, although a lover of Golden Age detective fiction, I have always struggled a little with Tey; although I enjoyed this more than the first book.
Shocked, Grant asks whether the man is talking about the death penalty, and then finds that his colleague is bemoaning the licensing laws and the fact that the pubs are closed!
In this novel, Tey's second, Inspector Alan Grant investigates the murder of a famous actress, whose death by drowning had been predicted by a celebrity clairvoyant.
In her characteristically elegant prose, Tey not only delivers an interesting piece of Golden Age crime fiction, she also explores the concept of celebrity.
My enjoyment of this novel was increased by it being a buddy read with my friend Jemidar, who correctly identifed the culprit very early on.
Once Jemidar picked the murderer, all Inspector Grant had to do was work out how the murder was committed.
The body of a young woman is found washed up on the beach, and while briefly thought to be a swimming accident, soon enough, some things begin to puzzle the local police and the Yard is called in, Grant leading the investigation.
Another surprise reveal at the end was a bit abrupt though—there was some background for it but not enough for one to guess.What made this book enjoyable for me was Erica Burgoyne, the sixteen- (in some places in the book seventeen) year old daughter of the Chief Constable who is spunky, clever, and resourceful and plays quite an active role in the investigation, at least part of it—it is Grant who finally solves the case, though.
Group read with English Mysteries Club, June 2014.What a joy it is to spend a couple of days with Inspector Grant and Josephine Tey. Grant is the antithesis of the hard-boiled detective.
It's all so very English, very 1954 and a good deal of fun.There is next to no suspense here, no chills or thrills (except for a few mild frissons on a midnight stake out) and the murderer is found in the end almost by accident.
But Josephine Tey is a master of the craft; she draws even the smallest character with care, sketchs an interaction with a few witty lines of dialog, and plants us firmly in a place and time with the most beautiful and economical prose.
When his chief suspect - the young man who was staying with Christina Clay in the cottage - goes on the run he believes his suspicions are correct but he reckons without the Chief Constable's young daughter, Erica, who doesn't believe Robert Tisdall is guilty and sets out to prove it.I enjoyed reading this well written crime novel.
I didn't work out who the murderer was but when I looked back over the book the clues were there - I'd simply not given them the importance they actually had.This book is part of the Alan Grant series but the books in this series can be read as standalone novels and read in any order.
I wish the biography had come out sooner; now I feel like I ought to go back and reread more of Tey's crime novels for better perspective.The supposed suicide of actress Christine Clay turns out to be a murder in this novel, and a ready-made suspect is on hand, supposedly making things easy for Inspector Grant.
And I have to say, I seriously didn't see that ending coming -- a complete surprise.Getting back to why knowing something of Tey's life helps to put things into better perspective as a reader, I could easily see how much of Tey's experiences had an impact on her character creations.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
(I have to say I'm a little impressed that the article found with the body which indicates murder is never mentioned in anything I've read online about the book (and in fact morphed into something else for the film adaptation (1937's Young and Innocent, said to be Hitchcock's personal favorite among his British films); I'm glad to continue to keep the secret.) The most obvious suspect isn't after all so obvious – and turns up missing – and what for about a minute seemed neat and tidy turns out to be a tangled ball of false confessions, astrology, suspects requiring delicate handling, and wardrobe searches.
Not my favourite Tey as bits of the story feel under-written and the solution is a cliche of crime fiction (and what was the motive, again?). All the same, for writing, for characterisation and sheer readability, Tey is one of my favourites for light and unchallenging reading which is still assured and intelligent.
The introduction points particularly to A Shilling for Candles in that regard as an example, saying that Tey was not interested "in that kind of game." So what are this novel's particular pleasures?
He laments that himself at one point that he's "just a hard-working, well-meaning ordinarily intelligent detective." Barnard accuses Tey of anti-Semitism in his introduction, but doesn't cite examples, and I have to wonder if it's he just doesn't get that Grant isn't meant to be a Holmes or Poirot.
It may be that anti-Jewish lines are excised from the later or American editions, or that I have yet to find them in my reread of Tey with 3 more novels to go.
The prose is pleasant to read, but the characters are not very engaging for me, and Tey cheats a bit on the mystery in my view.
And the other characters, with one or two exceptions feel like little more than sketches.As to the resolution: (view spoiler)[I did not believe in the protagonist’s sudden descent into madness; I prefer murderers with the courage of their convictions!
And the sudden intrusion of motorboats into the story was a cheat, in my view: it would have been easy enough for the author to have made the story lousy with motorboats without giving too much away.

I was both thrilled and dismayed to discover that in compiling my seemingly endless list of "books read" I somehow missed one of my most favorite British mystery writers ever-Josephine Tey. Thrilled to have the opportunity to share this outstanding writer & dismayed because, put simply, it meant I had to go back to work on my list:).
)But it doesn't matter where you begin-you run the risk of becoming addicted to Tey smooth, deceptively simple brilliance: of writing, characterization and stories.
I picked up A Shilling for Candles because Young and Innocent, one of my favorite early Hitchcock films, is based on it.
I was surprised to realize, however, that the film is only very loosely adapted from the book, Hitchcock having lifted a single idea from the plot: a man, who may or may not be innocent, is a fugitive from the law and finds assistance from a young woman who may or may not be in love with him.
Both are good fun for people who like classic British mysteries.
This entertaining mystery was published in Britain in 1936, so it contains a lot of expressions I hadn't heard before or had rarely heard before:I'll take my alfred davy: I'll swear to itI'm the original locked casket: I can keep a secretYou're the original camel fly: You're annoyingbags: trouserscharabanc: large bus or wagon used for sightseeingWhy doesn't she turn cartwheels in the Strand?: Why must she make a spectacle of herself?
I enjoyed it, but unfortunately remembered “who dunnit” so that spoiled the fun a bit.
It is the second book in the Inspector Grant series and features the death of a very talented, popular movie star.
The quickness and cleanliness of the arrest pleases everyone: the press, the public, and the constabulary all the way up to the Commissioner.
Is it just his liking for the suspect getting in the way of the facts?
What could be dry in other hands is smooth in Tey’s and does not slow down the story; rather, it gives a deeper dimension to Grant’s character.Though it is second in the Grant series, this can be read out of order from the first book (Man in the Queue) with no harm.
A Shilling for Candles is the second book of the Inspector Alan Grant series by Josephine Tey, set in 1930s England.
When evidence of foul play is discovered, Inspector Alan Grant of Scotland Yard takes the case.The victim turned out to be the famous actress Christine Clay.
The title of the book comes from Christine’s will: she leaves only a shilling for candles to her brother.Grant carefully investigates the scant evidence as well as each suspect’s actions and whereabouts.
Erica, the spunky daughter of the local police chief, finds and aids the suspect in hiding, then searches for evidence of the suspect’s innocence.
The Inspector Alan Grant series:1.
Black coffee gets blamed for it--though anyone who drank coffee as it was usually made in England (or indeed the US) in the 1930s would have to drink an awful lot of it to get that effect!Like so many classic British crime authors, Tey's "American" character Jason Harmer spouts a mixture of comic book slang and British middle class idioms; I also found it odd that toward the end of the book Grant begins to refer to him in his thoughts as "Jason".
Of course, in Tey's world as in Charlotte Armstrong's, a murderer must by definition be mad.
Inspector Grant is also different from the general ideal of a high ranking police officer in crime novels today, he a kind and pleasant man, he is not damaged, he is just good at his job and in this particular story he is on excellent form.A beautiful actress named Christine Clay is found dead, there are several people who may have liked to see her dead but where any of their reasons strong enough to actually make them carry out the murder.
Although some of the comments would not now be acceptable, I think we can only put this down to the time that the book was written and thank goodness that we now think differently.
Eventually I will read all my reviews of these mystery stories that get marketed to middle-aged women.
Then I will be able to list the characteristics of the genre, such as attractive and often upper-crust detectives, gutsy women, dysfunctional families, resort (or close to it) settings, and young (and sometimes middle-aged) love.
This one had the gutsy woman, the dysfunctional family, the beach, young children who evoke your sympathy, and the young love.
In the Bleak Midwinter had the attractive detective, the gutsy woman, two dysfunctional families, the Adirondacks, an abandoned infant, and young love.
I like Inspector Alan Grant.
He isn't a puffed up egotist like Hercule Poirot or Nero Wolfe.
Of course, those two are private investigators and Alan Grant is Scotland Yard.
Grant has to work through the crime whether he likes it or not - no picking and choosing crimes for him.
Still, he uses his own little grey cells, like Poirot, and also allows himself to get actively engaged in the investigation, unlike Wolfe.
I started to give this only 3-stars, due to genre.
As she is more than just genre, I'm bumping it to 4-stars.
The thing that stands out to me most as I work my way through this series is how individual Josephine Tey's authorial voice is.
For one thing, while her characters in this book were generally very well defined, I still feel like I know very little about Inspector Grant as a human being.
Erica and Tisdall and Lord Champneis are all fully developed, but Grant still has yet to make much of an impression on me.
He's almost more a vehicle than a character.Still, quite an interesting and compelling book, and I definitely look forward to continuing the series.
I read the book a long time ago and am now listening to the audiobook.
After re-reading the first book, I thought I must have looked back on Ms. Tey's books with rose colored glasses.
This book showed me that it wasn't my imagination, her books are really good.
As I said it's been 20 years since I read her books so although the storyline was familiar, I kept flip-flopping on who done it, which is good.
Regarding the narration, I didn't really care for Robert Barnard in the first book but by the second one, I started getting used to him and enjoyed him.
Free download at Project Gutenberg AustraliaExcellent plot keeping the reader's attention until the end. Moreover, I am a big fan of JT since I've read The Daughter of Time.5* The Daughter of Time4* The Franchise Affair3* The Singing Sands4* Brat FarrarTBR To Love and Be WiseTBR The Man in the QueueTBR Miss Pym Disposes
You shouldn't do things like that, you know." And there is Robert Tisdall, who conveniently disappears when poor Inspector Grant is ready to arrest him.
Robert who had so irresponsibly come to the end of his fortune and who had been 'rescued' by Christine Clay, tugs at the reader's heart (as he is meant to.)Good is good, and evil openly evil, in this book, but the reader must not be too naive and has to learn to examine and discern which is which.Tey's clever characterization and plot twists kept me going and I read and enjoyed this mystery.4.5 stars!
A good serving of canned tongue was a favourite on the menu.
Young women were starting to flex their muscles.
Examples being:- a special piece of clothing (in this case a coat rather than a tie), - the initial suspect was innocent and escaped,- a woman confesses,- the case involves a woman in the entertainment business with links to the US, and- a young lady helps in the investigation.The book was richer than the first with more loops and hoops.
A good period piece and a continuation of the literary capability of the author.
