https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421756.Disraeli
This was a fascinating read.
No one volume could really do Disraeli justice.
AM gives a vivid sense of Dizzy's romantic nature, idealistic mind and practical intelligence.
This made it difficult to get a real sense of Dizzy's development.
I also kept losing track of where we were in time.
AM tracks his subject more through his developing principles than through chronology.
AM shows Dizzy's political success and the ideals behind it but doesn't give any practical insight into the hows and whys of his political era.
I will definitely read more on Disraeli and perhaps even wear primroses on 4/19.
DISRAELI: A Picture of the Victorian Age. (1927). Andre Maurois. *****. This is an excellent biography of Benjamin Disraeli (1804-1881) written for the average reader. Maurois (1885-1967) was a prolific French writer – primarily of biographies, and published over two dozen books during his lifetime. His real name was Emile Herzog, but he couldn’t use it because of a regulation that existed when his first book came out. At the time, he was in the military and members of the military could not pub
DISRAELI: A Picture of the Victorian Age.
Maurois (1885-1967) was a prolific French writer – primarily of biographies, and published over two dozen books during his lifetime.
His real name was Emile Herzog, but he couldn’t use it because of a regulation that existed when his first book came out.
At the time, he was in the military and members of the military could not publish books under their own names.
Among his books were biographies of Balzac, Shelly, Byron, and Hugo.
In this biography, he manages to accurately place Disraeli within the context of the Victorian Era and the politics that existed at the time.
يتحدث عن رئيس الوزراء بنيامين دزرائيلي السابق ايام ملكة بريطانيا العظمى فيكتوريا بدءا من حكاية جده مرورا بوالده المثقف وصولا اليه والذي كان بالمناسبة الى جانب طموحه السياسي كاتبا وأديبا عرف بخطبه المنمقه والبلاغية ...ترأس حزب المحافظين ..الكتاب فيه جوانب جميلة ولكن ايضا فيه بعص الصفحات الممله ..علاقته بزوجته كانت مثالا جميلا للحب والعطف المتبتدل حتى انه قال عنها عشت ثلاثين سنة ولم يعكر صفو حياتنا مشاكل " الترجمة ليست سيئة لكنها ليست بتلك الجودة ..
Its strength and its weakness are the author's artistic license, which give the book the feel of a novel at times, rather than a dry collection of dates and facts.
For example, the author will frequently refer to a phrase or a thought that Disraeli had at a given moment, as if it were as cut and dried in a calendar as the date for the beginning of an election or a war.
That keeps the book from being boring.
There is very little in the way of dates, legislation passed, political philosophy...and a bit too much of his moods and feelings as he negotiates his political rise.
"In particular he shared with the Oriental that double sentiment of a desire for the good things of this world and a perception of their hollow emptiness"The transition from "Forti nihil difficle" to "never explain, never complain""Perhaps and probably I ought to be pleased.
I can only tell you that truth...
I am wearied to extinction and profoundly unhappy...
I do not think there is realy any person much unhappier than I am, and not fantastically so.
Fortune, fashion, fame, even power, may increase and do heighten happiness, but they cannot create it.
Happiness can only spring from the affections.
I was curious to read about this man I'd heard of, but knew nothing. The book traces the turbulent rise of Benjamin Disraeli to become Prime Minister of England and confidant of Queen Victoria. It gives an excellent view of politics in all its hurly-burly but focuses more on the man Disraeli rather than on the politics in which the man was such an accomplished participant. This is a very sympathetic biography, well-written and insightful.
This book has to be read in the understanding that it was written in the Twenties - the style is not at all what one would expect from a modern book. However, it's a good read and a good introduction to Disraeli. The contradictions in his character and behaviour come across, and it feels very much as a portrait of a human being.
Disraeli and Gladstone have long been fixed in mind as iconographic rivals of British politics during the reign of Queen Victoria, but this brief, impressionistic biography by Andre Maurois gave me some sense of both men's characters. It is not long on chronology or specific facts, but it does portray Disraeli very sympathetically and as a human being rather than just a political figure.
Although not as comprehensive as one would expect from the life of an important British politician, one does get to know some about his personality and the trials this man overcame to succeed in a very hostile environment. Nicely written, though somewhat romantic, but that is par for biographies dating to the 1920's. Worth a read, mainly as an introduction to Disraeli.
One of the Time-Life Books published as a subcription in the 1980's that is known as the Time Reading Program. I read it in 1980 or 1981 and remember thinking what a strange name for a British Prime Minister! It was very good and one of may favorites of the series.
I didn't expect to be inspired... But it was a good read.
Me hizo reflexionar acerca de la vida, bastantes emociones...
A nice, romantic bio of Disraeli. But why the antagonism towards Gladstone?
This book is a true testament of what can be accomplished in spite of extraordinary odds.
"Do not complain ... and never explain" - the Disraeli code will always remain pertinent to ANY situation.
A history of Victorian England and of Disraeli's life.
Flowery and well-written biography of Disraeli, the dandy/prime minister.
I found this book interesting but it has been years it would deserve a reread to be fair to it.
Great book, deplorable man.
Despite being a translation, the book is engaging, with just enough wit and bon mots to make reading it a pleasure.
Una lectura deliciosa. Maurois consigue transmitir la compleja personalidad de Disraeli y su evolución a través del tiempo.
At any rate, it was a fantastic look at another time (Victorian Age) and political system (British Parliament) which combined political maneuvers with a true romantic background story and it captivated me.After his wife (Mary Anne) dies from old age (and cancer), Disraeli begins going through their effects in preparation for moving out of her ancestral home which must be passed on to its inheritor:“Every fortnight for thirty-three years, Mary Anne had cut her husband’s hair, and every time the harvest had been garnered in a small sealed packet.
About a third of the way in, the book took me away.
The life of an ambitious man who tried and failed in youth, only to find his footing in politics with his oratory skills, which then made his entire life and career path.I really enjoyed reading about his strategy when figuring out politics, fellow men, and how he grew a surprising close relationship with Queen Victoria.
I would recommend this book for a historic read on the Victorian era of England and how one man was such an influencer on so many diverse arenas.
Una extraordinaria biografía de un hombre complejo, ayudado por una maravillosa y sencilla mujer a sobrellevar un entorno social y político adverso. Muy recomendable para entender el significado del poder en las diferentes etapas de la vida.
Maurois and his translator have woven a wonderfully readable story here. I'm proud to have it on my shelves.
Die Geschichte der Jungfernrede. So ziemlich das Witzigste, was ich je gelesen habe. "Man lächelt, man ist amüsiert?" - Anhaltenes Gelächter. Großartig.
a bit trying at times because of the antiquated language and tangential forays off the subject matter ..but, an antiquate history of Benjamin Disraeli.
It had a lot to do with Victorian British politics, so it was kind of confusing because I am not familiar with Parliament and the Crown. I liked the more personal chapters. It was alright.
"Der alte Jude, das ist der Mann (The old Jew, he is the man)." So said German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck about British Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli.
