https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/235773.Waiting
What is so special about the writing is its very sparing use of adjectives.
Because the writing is so good, the characters and situations are clearly seen and it is the reader's imagination, interpretation, that supplies the descriptions and adjectives.
Life in the country was more relaxed all around, the extreme rigidity of the Party not even extending to consistently enforcing the one-child policy.
And that is the environment of the love affair of Lin Kong and Manna Wu. Anything that is not encouraged or at least condoned by the Party is interpreted as disease and must be cut down at source.I loved the book.
I read many reviews about this book talking about how none of characters are likable, except for the simple peasant ex-wife of Lin's.
But I think that is what the author was trying to tell us-that the system reduced every individual's humanity and individuality to the extent no one was a complete person anymore.
The only reason that the simple peasant wife Shuyu seems to be more likable is because she was more human than anyone else.
I think it is a great love story because it shows how fragile human love and decency is and how easy it is to destroy what is beautiful.
Devastating & beautiful, the story is nothing if not universal. The Chinese Cultural Revolution is the backdrop & when it surrounds the characters, showing off the beauty & ugliness that is that double-edged sword, it traps them in situations which have seemingly no escape. There is here the spirit of romance which books like "Like Water for Chocolate" adequately display, as well as that overall apocalyptic feel of doom from "Never Let Me Go." Thoroughly splendid: it is one solid, brilliant jewel on the litcrown.
thailand is pretty much awesome, i like going there a lot, as long as you stay away from touristy places like phuket and don't go to bangkok.
people get sucked into bangkok and never return.so, i'm in bangkok (of course) and it's hard not to get sucked into a place like that, you know?
no actually it probably has a lot to do with the beach buckets.see after traveling in crazy places, keeping your guard up, trying not to get malaria, or lost, or eaten by wild animals, it's nice to have a safe zone filled with other tourists.
It's stuffed to bursting with Western stereotypes of Chinese people: the happily subservient, foot-bound woman; the sexually insatiable Asian beauty; the emasculated, impotent male.
—a Chinese novel/memoir written by a Chinese woman in Chinese for a Chinese audience and focused on the plight of Chinese women living in a patriarchal, misogynistic society—the writer, the daughter of a rich family and a child around 1900, did not have her feet bound, and such practices were more prevalent in her social class and at that earlier time.
Thus, delighted progressive (probably white, perhaps guilt-ridden) tastemakers were all too eager to reward such an "exotic" tale of unrequited love even though the surface originality of an actual Chinese romance (!) from an actual Chinese guy (!!) written in English (!!!), barely conceals the amateurish, mundane disposability that is the book's true nature.To its supporters, the spare minimalism of the writing matches generalized perceptions of the Asian aesthetic forging a sort of modern, Eastern Hemingway in which his level of economical depth and insight is matched or, dare I say, even exceeded.
Wooden writing (I can't blame the translation, as it was written in English) and shallow characters, but an interesting story that could only be set in mid/late 20th century China: about discipline, longing coupled with detachment, lost opportunities and more.Best summed up by Book Wyrm: "it was like trying to listen to an account of an orgy told by the world's most boring eunuch"See his review here.
3.5 starsDamn you, Lin. Damn you for making me cry over what you did to Shuyu. And yet I still worry over you, even though you're just a fictional character in a book. Do you even know what happiness is, Lin? How about what it costs and what it's NOT supposed to cost? I wasn't expecting the ending to stab my heart the way it did. Just when you think you know where a book is heading...
That was an element, but this book is truly about a man, Lin Kong, who cannot make up his mind how to live his life, and as a result finds himself always waiting for his life to begin.There is happiness and possibility all around him, but he is never able to grasp any of it.
The result is that all three of these people are waiting, always waiting, for his decision, for him to act, for life to begin.The story is written in a clipped style that suggests the thoughts and confusion of Lin Kong.
He wanted to marry Manna, a nurse who was more sophisticated and modern.
In the 1960s there could be serious political consequences if they are alone together outside the hospital grounds, and Lin is a cautious person.
During the two decades that elapse in "Waiting", the political and social climate slowly changes as the three main characters age.
The book is mainly a character study of Lin and Manna.
"Waiting" is a character-driven, quiet book that won the National Book Award for Fiction in 1999.
i have to admit that the politics alluded me, the history of communist china isnt exactly my thing, but what i got out of this book when i read it was the universality of the concept of “waiting”.
we will spend our entire lives waiting for one thing or another, and each time we acquire what we were waiting for, we find something else to be waiting for.
we always think that what we are waiting for is that one last thing that will make everything complete—only to find each time that what we wanted isnt exactly all we thought it would be.
I enjoyed my second reading of this book by Ha Jin much more than the first.
Perhaps it was timing or my still-maturing literary consciousness, but for me, the book has ripened significantly in the 7 or 8 years since my first perusal.
Ultimately, after many years of trying to divorce Shuyu, Lin succeeds and then sells the farm to pay for his second marriage, and we see her transplanted to the big city and thriving there, as well.
Meanwhile, Lin and Manna's lives seem to stall; stuck forever in waiting mode, they seem to have lost the ability to love or grow or give.A good read!
The premise of the novel is that waiting is an emotion.
By the end of the book, I was ready to concede the point to the author as this was one of the most exasperating stories I've ever read.
I really wearied of waiting for the culmination of the story.
The story just drove me insane as we waited and waited and waited for Lin to get a spine and marry the woman he claimed to love.
And she just dutifully waited and waited and waited....In all seriousness, the author provided a perfect story to illustrate his point of view.
It still drove me crazy.
I couldn't decide if I wanted to give this book one or two stars, but ultimately decided to go with two because it kept my attention and was a fast read.
That being said however, I hated almost everything about this book, particularly the main characters.
There were times when I thought the strength of my burning hatred for the main character would be enough to ignite the book into flames.
I can't even write any more because just thinking about how much I couldn't stand every single person in this book is making me angry again.
I am not sure why this book won anything - a relay race, a pie-eating contest, let alone a National Book Award. It's got a good theme to it - how the communist Chinese government's totalitarian ways caused great unhappiness - but the writing was so dull that I couldn't deal. I was just Waiting for it to end. It went something like this:"I had only 12 more years before I could divorce my wife and marry Manna."A bird flew by the window. A leaf fell from a tree. The clouds were grey.Snore.

It feels as if the author doesn’t quite understand Manna and therefore limits his attempts to show us her head and heart, glossing over her inner life even in crucial moments, leaving her character flat and underdeveloped.Despite these points, I don’t hesitate to recommend Waiting.
Lin and Manna’s story is complex and ironic — like life — and if the language isn’t always particularly eloquent, its meaning is.I will also note (because this sort of thing always influences my opinion—I’m such a sucker!) that Ha Jin received the 1999 National Book Award for Waiting.
Walks you through the emotional details of a man's life as he struggles with choosing between his life in the rural Chinese countryside and his work at a military base in a large city.
Ha Jin is a master at making you feel the magnitude of the decision by building sympathy with each character.
At the same time, his detailed account of everyday life makes you cringe with tension and an appreciation of your own ambition to make things happen.
In the end, you're left wondering how much of your life is wasted away on decisions that are prolonged by guilt and ambiguity.
Set in China in the years following the Cultural Revolution, Lin, a military doctor, spends most of the year living at a military hospital far from his wife and daughter.
He soon becomes attracted to a nurse becoming dissatisfied with his old-fashioned peasant wife.
For 18 years, the courts deny his application for divorce and for 18 years he steals moments with the nurse because military rules prevent his fraternizing with the opposite sex.
Little happens over the course of the novel as each person grows old fulfilling their lot in life.
And, yet everything happens in these pages as Lin makes the archetypal journey to self-knowledge.
This book had been haunting me for years and now that I've finished--it still haunts me.From the first page this book is hard to put down. Yet the writing at times feels like watching a foreign film where the drama on screen is over-acted, while the dialogue is understated. That disconnect never let me completely lose myself in the book.But, that might just be me. (I recently finished The Sympathizer, which swept me away).The story though and the window into China, post-revolution, is fantastic.
This book did make me feel like I was waiting, so maybe it did what it set out to do. But it wasn't a good kind of waiting. It was the kind of waiting I used to do when I would have to go to some government office with my parents and they would make me sit still and behave myself, and I would feel a terrible physical ache in unmentionable parts of my body from having to contain so much desire to fidget. Actually, that sounds a lot more exciting than this book was.
Nepaisant to, kad visas veiksmas vyksta tame erdvėlaikyje, apie kurį Lietuvoje menkai arba visiškai nieko nežinoma (1960-1970 komunistinė Kinija), mums, kaip patiems buvusiems sovietų sąjungos dalimi, gal nėra taip sunku ir nesuvokiama suprasti tuometines tendencijas, moralines normas ir laikmečio dvasią - užtenka tik pažiūrėti Šuriko nuotykius.
Kita vertus, pilnai suprantu, kad vakarų Europoje ar JAV šita knyga tikrai galėjo sukelti "negaliu patikėti" ar panašiu kognityviniu disonansu paremtą jausmą.
Nepaisant visos mūsų istorijos, "šlovingojo socializmo" statytojų nupušimas net ir man sukėlė gan rimtą WTF jausmą.
Pati gi knyga visai maloniai skaitosi, parašyta tikrai dailiai, sklandžiai.
Žodžiu, tikrai gera knyga, kurią skaityt malonu ir lengva.
This book offers a fresh, rare look at life deep inside Communist China.
There are no formulas for the plot: it's original and the self-effacing perspective of the narrator intrigued me.
But I realized that the author's technique was really an extension of the cultural distinctions about which he described in the novel.
He made the culture of Mao inside China come alive for me.
Jin impressed me with his sincerity, honesty, vivid portrait work and originality.
We are fortunate to have such a well-drawn look at such an inaccessible society by someone who understands it so well.
The story also works as a political allegory of the Communist regime in China.
Closely related to the latter, it is a fable about a traditional way of life coming into contact with modernity and industrialization (communist or not).On all levels, the story shows the ambiguity of the human heart and the difficulty of self-knowledge.
And both present situations fraught with moral ambiguity which seem to point beyond themselves for understanding."Waiting" is a thoughtful and sad story about what a party leader accurately describes at an important moment of the book as "a bitter love".Robin Friedman
I couldn't have been more grateful that we stopped at the bookstore first.) While waiting, I knocked out about a 100 pages which turned out to be a good thing because I don't think I would have finished the book if I hadn't gotten so far into it.
There's not any breathtaking storytelling going on, nor a lot to learn about the culture (or at least not compared to a book like Wild Swans: Three Daughters of China.
I found the ending an improvement on the whole book, although it isn't a picture perfect conclusion.
Its no reading slump ending book.
It held me because I was never sure how to feel about Lin or Manna.
At different times, I rooted for each of them (separately and together) and for their devotion to each other.
At times I hated each of them for their weaknesses and selfish behavior.
Does waiting for someone for that long strengthen love?
Was Lin capable of love or too immature?
Equally disturbing was the trap of the "old maid" that Manna found herself in...she held on to a dream (marriage) simply because she had been taught/raised/brainwashed to think that successful women in society must be wives and mothers.
Kitaba başlamadan önce arka kapak yazısından yola çıkarak birkaç ufak araştırma yapma gereği duydum. Siyasi ideolojik kavramlara yabancı biri olarak komünizmden başladım, Çin Devrimi'nden çıktım.Çin, değişik kültürü ve gelenekleriyle tarihin her vaktinde ilgimi çeken bir ulus olmuştu. Kitapta Askeri doktor olan Ling'in bir türlü sonlandıramadığı evliliği okuyor olsak da ilmek ilmek işlenmiş bir Çin kültürü var hikâyenin etrafında ve ben hâlâ kadınların ayaklarının bağlanıyor oluşunda takılıp kalmış bulunmaktayım.Çin kültürüne olan ilgimin yüzeysel bir meraktan öte olduğunu da belirtmeliyim. Yakın bir gelecekte -2017 olmasını umuyorum- Çince öğrenmek gibi bir planım var, inşallah. Öncelikle diğer planlarımı sonlandırayım da bir...
I so wanted to like this book.
It won some awards and I had heard good things about it.
I was happy for the book to end.
I think that it was the author's intent for me to be frustrated with the characters and the title "Waiting" seemed to refer to the lives of these people, who could just never act or do the thing that they thought would make them happy.
But the more I read, the more I felt like one of the characters in the book, waiting for something to happen that would make me interested in their story.
But it never happened.
And to be sure, this book is steeped in such information from the mind-boggling ways in which politics enter into the most non-political facets of everyday life to details of cuisine that westerners would never guess were edible (jellyfish!!!).
For this alone, the book is worth a read.But sadly, the protagonist is not only unsympathetic, he he boring; so frustratingly passive as to make the reader want to completely disassociate himself from the trials of the charater's life.
And while Lin Kong realizes his own passiveness is what bites him in the ass in the last dying breath of this novel, it's a revelation that comes too little too late (and upsettingly in a completely different voice .
Reading this story of lives left in limbo by the repressive social circumstances of Cultural Revolution China, I began to get that sensation of frustration that I normally feel when I sense my emotions being manipulated for melodramatic effect.
Except that I don't think that this book was especially manipulative; rather it's a quiet, likely truthful account.
So this was culturally informative, but not really enjoyable to read.
I did like the eventual shift though: we spend the whole book seeing cultural chains, but eventually we see personal human ones as strong or stronger (and much much more universal).
