https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55987.Beyond_Freedom_and_Dignity
Readers of this book will respond to it as they have been conditioned to and they will do so according to some of the processes covered in this book. Dr. Skinner dedicated his life to understanding the behavior of organisms. He is the Darwin of psychology. His scientific contributions and theories are to most readers what the contributions of Darwin and the theory of evolution is to creationists. Are you a creationist?
If there is one book I've read, about which it would be impossible not to come away from it a smarter person, I would argue this is probably it.Edit: I'm going to have to read Noam Chomsky's response to this book...I must prepare myself for battle.
I read this towards the end of college, after I'd committed to a Religious Studies degree.
Although I'd end up doing a major thesis on the debates about the origins of gnosticism, my real focus was on the history of psychotherapeutics, particularly depth psychologies, subjects which the Religious Studies Department was much more amenable to sponsoring than the behaviorist Psychology Department was.
Still, while thinking myself a humanistic psychologist, it was important to understand the other currents in the field, so I sought them out.Skinner was really big when I was in college, maybe because he had written a number of easy, polemical books like Walden Two and this one, Beyond Freedom and Dignity.
كتاب جيد في مجاله, و استوقفتني أكثر من فكرة وعبارة, خاصة فيما يتعلق بالتعزيز والثقافة وتعديل السلوك, إلا أن الترجمة قللت من قيمته العلمية و المعرفية, وأضافت له -للأسف- صعوبة في التجميع والربط بين الأفكار, بالنسبة للقارئ الغير مختص إلى حد ما, مما جعل قراءته ثقيلة على القلب رغم صغر الحجم, وبما أنه لسكِنر فربما يكون هذا سببًا يدعوك لإكمال القراءة, و البحث, و التحليل, رغم ترجمته السيئة .
No. No I did not.The idea, as Skinner would have it, is that concepts like "freedom" and "dignity" are impediments to the application of science to human behavior.
Our reward-based virtual social networks are nothing more and nothing less than vast Skinner Boxes, experiments in manipulating human social behavior on an unprecedented scale.
We chase likes and hearts and followers and clicks, all of which are only designed to pull us in, to consume us and marketize us as we consume.If we are not careful, we will find ourselves in that place of Skinner's dreams, a place where liberty and human worth are no longer relevant.
You could almost say that any book labeled as bad or harmful by a publication that regularly features Ann Coulter columns is worth putting on one's reading list.That being said, BF&D is Skinner's attempt to present, in layman's terms, his ideas of behaviorism, how they apply to humans, and how he feels they could be used to the benefit of society.
Extremely interesting is the introductory chapter regarding the need for a science of human behavior.This book is considered controversial by most people who have heard of it but not read or considered it.I recommend it solely on the basis of its spirit: that we should not shun a 'science of human behavior' simply because the notion is contrary to the presuppositions of 'free will'.
I thought reading it would help me see Skinner's influence on education and other things.
I'm giving him one more star than I thought I would because he does clearly lay out the different forms of what he calls "control".
There is not only punitive, the most obvious kind, but also "permissive", "mauietic", "guidance", "learning from things" and I think one more I can't remember without looking.
His reasons for doing this are scientific -- because any outside referent for behavior goes outside the scientific sphere, which is true -- but precisely this is the problem, I think.I'm not done reading yet -- this is just a hasty quick series of notes.
A couple things about this book...1) Skinner constructs with skill a fascinating, if a little bit horrifying, argument in this book. 2) I can't really say that I liked, or that his skillful argument won me over, but it's a very important piece of educational philosophy and does explain a lot about why our school systems operate like they do today. So I liked it in the sense that I feel more enlightened and informed now, but more by the cultural implications of this book than by the actual argument for the technology of behavior.
He confuses science with technology and is, in the process, totally scientistic about the possibility of regulating human life.
In that narrow-minded process, he seems to (deliberately?) misrepresent the critics of behaviorism and the "literature of freedom and dignity" in order to explicate his point.
The ultimate low was when he tried to psychoanalyze his critics in a rather childishly condescending way.Unfortunately (to me), contemporary life seems to validate Skinner's call to control behavior and for a "technology of behavior," now in the form of fear-based 24-hour news manufacturing and the booming pharmaceutical industry.
Almost single handedly stole psychology from the hands of Jung, who had succeeded in giving creedence to the introvert and the play of fantasy in the inner life and reduced humanity to a succession of outward behaviors.
And because when you're dealing with academia, you're looking at people who want things that are easily measured, Skinner and his ilk easily won out, leading to the Prozac-zombie state of the States and most of the Western world today.
Almost as horrible to read as Freud.
But at least Freud was on the right track by mapping the subconscious.
A refutation of the illusion that we have free will. Worse, to date noone that I have read has mustered any good counterarguments to Skinner. One of the most dangerous books in the English canon. You can't understand the political debate over the last 40 years about social programs unless you have mastered this text. You can't accept most people's simplistic religious beliefs once you have read this. Very scary stuff.
Speciously argued and chilling in its implications . . . A manual for aspirant brainwashers.
great book....really examines the role of "agency" in our societal beliefs and values.
Skinner redefines human behavior as not a set of actions motivated by an essential self, but a set of responses that have been consistently reinforced by the conditioning environment in which a person lives.
To improve the lives and beings of people in our society, Skinner says it is ineffective to focus on developing virtues or attitudes or ethical ways of thinking – we have to improve the environment (by which he means, we have to change what behavior is reinforced, both directly and indirectly, through the contingencies our culture allows or provides).
We read books which help us say things we are on the verge of saying anyway but cannot quite say without help."My love for this book exemplifies Skinner's quote above.
Skinner takes the psychological approach to determinism, focusing on operant behavior, reinforcement, contingencies, and the environment's effects on our identity, social behavior, and ideas.
Many object that "a scientific view of man leads to wounded vanity, a sense of hopelessness, and nostalgia.
But no theory changes what it is a theory about; man remains what he has always been.
A scientific view of man offers exciting possibilities.
Carefully, Skinner describes the issues raised by the belief in the individual as a free agency of your own faith, in the traditional sense and based on traditional philosophies of dignity and liberty.
Skinner positions have been widely misunderstood, in part because of Chomsky's innacurates attacks, but a careful read on this book, written by the winner of the humanitarian award of 1972, is still a source of wisdom and new ideas, since the menthalistic paradigm of autonomous man is still dominant.
Reading this book was a continual cycle of "that's an interesting insight" to "that's a horrible conclusion to draw from that insight!" Skinner makes many interesting and somewhat-valid observations.
While modern culture hasn't accepted this thesis, it has definitely embraced many different parts of his philosophy, and so that makes this book worth reading as a way of understanding the culture.
However, it's worth reading for its cultural impact; it's actual message is extremely disastrous.Rating: 2.5 Stars* (Okay).*Rating based on the book's value to a reader as a means of understanding current culture, not on the book's actual value in-and-of-itself, which would warrant only half a star.
Skinner pulled his punch naming this book.
It should be titled "Beyond Freedom, Dignity & Value." Skinner expounds his life-long thesis that humans are just animals, no better, just different than the others.
a person's behavior is determined by a genetic endowment traceable to the evolutionary development of the species and by the environmental circumstances to which as an individual he has been exposed.""To make a value judgement by calling something good or bad is to classify it in terms of its reinforcing effects." It's all about "operant conditioning," not good, beauty, love or truth.This book sold over a million copies in the 1970s.
Wonder how life in a Skinner Box worked for his adherents.
Good historical psychology read but not much value for formulating a plan.
Learned a lot about behaviorism on how it can be used to promote world peace. No wonder Skinner is world figure.
Yeah, seriously guys, let's get past this freedom and dignity crap. I totally felt my views on life deepen as I read this book.
Recommend it. If we ought to change the world, we must start by recognizing the limits of the so-called "autonomous" man.
Skinner reminds us that although we have elevated thought processes and awarenesses, we still operate as "organisms" responding to our environments and consequences.
I don't have time to write a full review but wow. I must re-read this someday.
Important classic
As such, Skinner’s vendetta against autonomy, self-determination, free will, and cognition seems already in progress, with zombified college grads manufacturing anxiety and outrage through clickbait thinkpieces as overworked game devs stuff their once-fellows into microtransactional Skinner boxes to put food on the table.
The teacher cannot be sure of the presence or absence of the condition which determines whether a response is to be reinforced or not.” [p.100-101]“Death is no doubt the end of life, and a full world may be the end of evolution, but these terminal conditions have no bearing on the processes through which they are reached.
This is a great book to use as a supplement to teaching a psychology course on explaining the radical behaviorism of learning.
His chapter on dignity first sentence sets the tone for why people must feel they have to believe they are in control.
I use the punishment chapter in my psychology course and my students are floored.
Thanks to humanistic psychology and Norm Chomsky, but this book still should be taken seriously because no matter how much you believe in free will, environmental influence will always play roles in our behavior whether we want to deny it or not.
His thoughts on "human nature", environment and social life are intriguing, debatable and thought-provoking.
"Epicurus was not quite right: pleasure is not the ultimate good, pain the ultimate evil; the only good things are positive reinforcers, and the only bad things are negative reinforcers.
What is maximized or minimized, or what is ultimately good or bad, are things, not feelings, and men work to achieve them or to avoid them not because of the way they feel but because they are positive or negative""behavior can be changed by changing the conditions of which it is a function." "Consciousness is a social product.
A book written by a real-life supervillain.
"It remains to be seen what man can make of man." It's the most dangerous kind of utopian thinking: look at what happened when Marx's ideas were put into practice, and that guy believed in both freedom AND dignity!Books like these are compelling while you're reading them.
The arguments seem unassailable.
But think for a second: would you want a group of unchecked psychiatrists reprogramming the people you actually care about?
Your spouse?
However, the book lays everything out on the table.
This is what technocrats of all persuasions believe in, deep down.
A higher-order behavioral perspective on problems individuals and the world face; and how to understand and deal with them using the natural power of the principles offered by the science of behavior. Should be read by everyone and serve to guide leaders to promote behaviorally-sound strategies to improve our chances for survival and happiness.
