https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44735.The_Elements_of_Typographic_Style
I am in the process of transforming myself into a book.
In order to do that, I am having my spine surgically removed and removed and replaced with a smyth sewn binding.
My skin is being stripped off in large patches and replaced with 12 pt cardstock with a four color cover and scuffless matte film lamination.
I know it doesn't really matter.
I know a book can easily burn or mold or be eaten by silver fish or fall apart because the paper is not archival and I don't care.
I am becoming a book.
Not only is this a detailed, informative, and surpassingly witty survey of typography, but it's simply a beautiful book to hold and to read.
I feel similarly about Tufte's books, except there the classroom is a church, and the professor is a jerk.I picked this up as a sort of sideways approach to improving my web design (planning on moving on to The Elements of Typographic Style Applied to the Web next).
Invisibility is the mark of almost all good design, but good typography is hard to see even when you're looking right at it.
Words are hard not to read, but at least now I know to at least try and take a closer look.Did I mention this book is hilarious?
Bringhurst has deep knowledge of typography, and the historical chapter on typefaces alone makes it worth your read.
The chapter on page proportions, as a concrete example, is pure numerology.His style is a little florid for my tastes, and I feel like his love of the subject matter got in the way of his exposition.If you are willing to read past rationalizations and are willing to appreciate just how much someone can love typography, and how it obviously comes through in form and function of this book, I highly recommend it.
What a beautiful book! It almost doesn't matter what this book was about, because it was so thoughtfully laid out and lovely to read, which is in itself a testament to great typography. But the content was equally good. I learned so much about type, from the mundane technical details to the influence of language and politics. Bringhurst's little jokes and anecdotes are the cherry on top.Anyone who is interested in type, words, history, design, art, and all that is good in the world should read this book.
Sure, it's simply the best book on print typography out there.
There's not a thing about this book as a book I don't love—the design incorporates so many little touches (marginal notes, a lay-flat spine on a paperback, proper paragraph layout, dead-on perfect justification) that it's a joy just to look at it.Which is good, because you spend a lot of time looking at the book; the content inspires you to do just that, to learn and notice what good design and typography are.
Bringhurst has made something close to a Perfect Book, then explained how it was done.
For producing plain text the Neo is the right tool; it is not the right tool for designing a page or driving tent pegs.Bringhurst's book is a modern classic and a 'review' is at best redundant, so instead I'll just make a handful of random comments and saying that lots of people should read it.* In some ways the centre of the book is in this extract: 'The needs of the text should take precedence over the layout of the font, the integrity of the letterforms over the ego of the designer, the artistic sensibility of the designer over the foundry's desire for profit, and the founder's craft over a good deal else.'Indeed, the first subsection of the first chapter is titled Typography exists to honour content.
Вау!Це, звісно, не для світського ознайомлення праця, але якщо б Вас часом, леді і джентельмени, зацікавила історія шрифтів, їх створення, їх змісту та власне, ким бачать себе (натхненні, відданні і свідомі типографи), то це ідеальне поєдання цих аспектів. Автор дуже тонко подає типографію, стиль шрифту у роботі, через аналогічні змістовно сенси у музиці, до того ж скурпульозно розкриває найтонші грані філософії функціонування усього різноманіття шрифтів.
La domanda sembra strana ma... come facciamo a leggere? A districarci in merito al senso del testo, ai dialoghi, alle convenzioni scientifiche, alle lingue straniere (con caratteri non latini), a non soccombere cioè allo stream of consciousness degli autori? Grazie ai tipografi e agli stampatori!Bellissimo studio, tecnico e affascinante, di Mr Bringhurst che è, tra le altre cose, un tipografo di grande esperienza e perizia.
Five stars, if not out of enjoyment, than for sheer quality. I find it difficult to imagine a text of typography more brimming in style and grace than this one. The font guide at the very end is gorgeous and invaluable. This one's for anyone with even a bit of interest in the matter. At times accessible or inaccessible, what more could you ask for?
Aside from some mystical mumbo jumbo about the pseudoscience of golden ratios in page layout, this is a brilliant, succinct, and comprehensive guide to typographical best practices. Skip Chapter 8 and this guide will serve you well.
I didn’t finish this because it was far more technical and went deeper into the art of type than I feel I will ever need. Almost a textbook for a professional. However, everything I did read and understand, I loved. The precision and richness of information that goes into setting text on a surface is breathtaking. Glad I know a bit more about it now.
5 stars are not enough...
There is an incredibly rich history and a fascinating set of accepted principles and rules which govern typography, the skillful use of letterforms and typeset matter which is a very important sub-discipline of graphic design.
I would say that its contribution to my career has been inestimable, though I have by no means begun to exhaust the vast store of knowledge on the subject and am always captivated to learn more.There are those who will assert that rules have nothing whatever to do with aesthetic enterprises, to which I say Hogwash!
That said, I would consider this a must-have book for every graphic designer and a handsome edition to the library of anyone who has even a casual interest in typography.
As the title clearly indicates, Bringhurst sets out to do for Typography what Strunk and White’s Elements of Style did for writing: condense the vast array of typographic rules into one thorough reference manual.
Wisely, Bringhurst restricts himself primarily to one form: the book.Within that field, the Elements does a wonderful job of exploring the minutiae that most normal readers never notice, such as kerning (adjusting the spacing between certain pairs of letters which, if spaced the same as other letters in the font, would read as either too tight or too wide – example: fi) or tracing the histories of various fonts.
The printing museums in Antwerp and Lyon have both enthralled me.Bringhurst's aim for typographers is to "induce a state of energetic repose which is the ideal condition for reading." He warns of "typographical slums," "hyphens like refugees" and texts like "shrink-wrapped meat." It isn't all about the fonts, either: "Perhaps fifty per cent of the character and integrity of a printed page lies in its letterforms.
Much of the other fifty per cent resides in its margins." Yay for white space!I'll close with a quote about one of my pet peeves when I'm editing: double spaces after a period.
Part Tufte design book, part Chicago Manual of Style, part encyclopedia of fonts.
Wonderful book for anyone interested in design.The book can be read in one of two ways:1) This book is pretentious!
An incredibly comprehensive journey through the art and science of typography. Written with a poetic edge, the book is a romantic embrace of the world of type. The text often borders on grandiloquence, sometimes resulting in a loss of clarity, but the practical applications, and the author's overriding passion for the subject, justify this book's reputation as a classic of the field.
The best book on typography and print design I've ever read!
A testament to the very craft that it talks about. Makes you appreciate what goes into making a book so much and proves that every craft can be art.
Books by passionate experts are fun.
Flipped though again recently and realized the typography in this book is trash
The problem with books that are meant to educate about design is partially in the way subjective and objective factors are approached.
Most useful to me was a set of helpful paradigms related to how certain aspects of type can be treated for legibility, thoughts on how to approach kerning and tracking, why one might use all caps vs.
It's been about twelve years since I first read this book, and some of the principles I picked up here are now set deeply in my habits as a designer.
This book is more about the objective factors - though traces of the subjective are impossible to eliminate in the creative world.
Se vuelve en una auténtica obra de referencia que comprende definiciones y sugerencias básicas para cualquier persona que trabaje con tipografías, ya sean diseñadores, editores, impresores, estudiantes, aficionados, etc.Que si bien uno puede no estar de acuerdo en algunas sugerencias, es innegable la calidad y cantidad de investigación que Bringhurst llevó a cabo para sintetizar en este libro, desde connotaciones históricas, métodos de impresión y reproducción, hasta una visión romántica de los caracteres con los que convivimos cada día.La recomiendo ampliamente a nivel de imprescindible para cualquier estudiante de diseño, es algo que debemos tener en nuestros libreros para recordarnos el uso correcto de nuestras letras.
Creo que si cada diseñador leyera este libro aumentaríamos considerablemente la sensibilidad tipográfica y con ello la calidad de nuestra comunicación visual y objetivos de negocio.
Although some concepts still muddle my head (I'm mildly asleep during my morning commute), I found it was thoroughly informational, it and has given me a new appreciation to typography (and [book] design/publishing).
A curious thing, however, in my opinion, is that Bringhurst mentioned that having some white, blank pages at the end of the book was a good thing, and yet there wasn't a single one in his!
His book looked so visually dense that for some time I was tentative to even begin reading it.(Also, the lack of em-dash use and the use of single quotation marks in lieu of double quotation marks unnerved me throughout the read.)
This book... This book is not surprising the 'typographer's bible'. Yes, perhaps this is a big statement but it is a very very concise and yet descriptive manual to typography for everybody interested in the craft.I am glad I didn't read it too early. Taking your time with it seems like a better idea. I want to purchase it for myself so I have a copy to refer to in the future.
Само издание лучше всего подтверждает тезис Брингхерста, что типографика — искусство. Книга о традициях и ремесле с совершенно неожиданными метафорами, и она скорее отвечает на вопрос «почему», а не «как». Редкая по своей глубине вещь.
The most magnificently readable, and re-readable, book on typography I've yet encountered. Works perfectly as a book to keep on your desk to turn to in an idle moment, and is itself a beautiful thing.
Extremely thorough and comprehensive, a must-read for anyone interested in typography. I learned so much from it and was pleasantly surprised at how accessible the writing is. (I feared it would be very dense and dry but it was not at all!)
Gran libro que todo editor, diseñador editorial, , tipógrafo, impresor o interesado en serio en la materialidad del libro, su historia y/o la de la escritura tendría que leer.
It's a great book.
