https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71867.The_Other_Side_of_Dawn
This is the 7th and final book in the tomorrow series and i think john marsden did an excellent job with the whole series, the storyline and characters are both of things i loved from this story!I wish it was more popular because this book is one of the best ones to come from an australian writer that i know of!there are so many twist and turns, heart-stopping moments!
Since their town was invaded by enemy soldiers and transformed into a war zone, Ellie and her four surviving friends have been fighting for their lives.
This review was originally posted on The Moonlight LibraryThe final book in the Tomorrow When the War Began series starts with a bang as the New Zealanders fly in a bomb expert to load up the kids and prepare them for D-Day.(view spoiler)[The kids take out an enemy squadron that is moving way too close to Hell, then abandon their home in favour of the one final big push.
The last book in this series was suitably dark. Although the ending didn’t blow me away, it was fitting. Overall the series is definitely worth picking up, a quintessential Aussie read.
While she's fine (...if a bit beaten down) for a while while everyone thinks her name is "Amber", when someone recognises her as Ellie - as one who's done so much damage - she needs to get out FAST, and with the help of one of the other prisoners (...in particular a poor man who has just died of AIDs) she is able to escape, and decides to head out to the place she has heard her mother has been taken to.(Side note: said soldier who "saved" her did so to save his own skin, so that there would be a backup plan for him should the war be lost to his side, he also lied and told Ellie that all her friends were dead...
Plot summary: It's been over a year since Ellie and her friends left on the camping trip that would ultimately save them from captivity in the war, but throwing them into the depths of guerilla warfare.
There's one scene in particular in this book that's stuck with me for years - (view spoiler)[the scene in which Colonel Long makes it clear that he wants something in exchange for protecting Ellie (hide spoiler)].
That said, the scene still makes me shudder, all these years later.I read the last 75 pages with tears in my eyes.
There were times that I did not want this last book to be done, but too many times, I could not bear all of the horror of the kids fighting the enemy soldiers and all of the hardships they were experiencing.What Ellie and her friends and all they went through, can never be appreciated nor understood, except by someone who has lived through what they did.
The wrap was well done.Ellie said "I know I won't live happily ever after.
I want to see it all, know it all, understand it all.
I want to experience everything it has to offer: LIFE!"
These books have been a great cure to "so many books, what should I pick up for a relaxing read in between?" Now that may sound weird considering these are war books and not a bit relaxing, but over the past year, I've become so attached to Ellie and her friends, reading the next one was like a comfortable visit to see them all.
Ellie's troubles are not over, and she has a hard time ahead of her still...and that's pretty much all I can say without even hinting at how the book ends.
Now instead of focusing on four characters plus Kevin (sorry Kevin!) we've come to love over 10 years, we have to deal with a character that is just not likable.The train sequence and the chase - These two set pieces were just convoluted, hard to follow, went on too long and at times, made not sense.
Kevin, Lee and Homer may not be living together raising kids like on 'Full House', but I don't see them not staying in contact.
While I hate "20 years later" epilogue, as a reader who grew to love Harry and his friends, it was great to see that they were all happy and involved in each others lives.
This is the seventh and final book in the incredible Tomorrow series (after Tomorrow When the War Began, The Dead Of Night, The Third Day, the Frost, Darkness, Be My Friend, Burning For Revenge and The Night Is For Hunting) and it wasn't really what I expected.
Knowing that the series and the war would be ending in this book, but not knowing how or whether the characters would survive made it unputdownable.
At the end of the day the characters have been through an incredible amount so to make everything all better again not only would have been unrealistic, but also would have devalued the previous books.
So this is the seventh and final book in the Tomorrow series by John Marsden.
Her character developed well throughout the series but when it comes right down to it I didn't particularly like her.
In fact she was my least favorite part of the entire series, she came across as overly possessive and at times seemed to treat her friends more like objects then people.
It certainly managed to show that war changes people.These books read very fast so if you're a fast reader it wouldn't take too long to go through the entire series.
Finished! I don't think I will review each book, or even the series, as I took no notes but I might put something together soon.This is a pretty good series, plenty of action and suspense, great characters, and a thought-provoking plot. I do think 7 books was probably 2-3 books too many. Ellie has a story related to everything that happens so a lot of the book is taken up by her just talking about stuff. But overall I really enjoyed this series.
This was an amazing end to the series,particularly in the realistic portrayal of how life can't go back to how it was before the war. My only criticism is that some of the close-knit friendships and relationships got cut off too quickly, which may be realistic but was still disappointing. I definitely need to track down the three books in the Ellie Chronicles to read, too.
It was a good ending, if a little predictable - however I have to keep reminding myself it’s a young adult book!
I am very glad I read to the end of this series.
Was a great last book.
I like the way Marsden didn’t glorify the war in the end - everyone didn’t come out of the war unscathed, he didn’t make everything a nice happy ending and wrap everything up in a bow, he left things open (obviously open enough for a follow-up series with Ellie!), people were hurt, damaged and nothing was the same.
All in all a great series!
I'm so glad I have The Ellie Chronicles ready to go on to, because I'm reluctant to leave this world. The series was wrapped up well with action and emotion, plus a healthy dose of realism of the struggles of "after the war."
They're action-packed, but not devoid of introspection or (emotional) development, and the way they are written makes it easy to get into Ellie's head even though I have never been able to actually imagine myself in her position, and hope I never will be.
As bad as it sounds, I'm even, in a way, glad not all of them survive, and that they die in such different ways--not because like them dying, but because that is what terrible events can do to people, and it's as much part of it as all the other emotions and events the teenagers go through.
This is the seventh and final book of John Marsden's "Tomorrow When the War Began" series.
The seventh book concluded the series pretty well.
Without giving anything away, I'll report that the war does finally end, and some, but not all of the teens survive.
Most war books move along with a predictable dramatic structure: characters die at dramatic moments, events transpire to develop the overarching theme, etc.
In Marsden's books the plots move along with a more real life unpredictability.
This is not a criticism; it struck me that real life in war time must be like that.
(view spoiler)[Despite some initial reservations, I've grown to love this series.
The seperation from the ferals was absolutely heartwrenching, and the group went out with a bang in their final contribution to the war.
But I think he represented Ellie as too fickle in the end.
A girl that suddenly falls out of love with one friend (AGAIN!) and begins to have feelings for another (AGAIN!) (I really thought she was over that drama), and a girl that breaks a promise to a little girl...
it just does not feel like the Ellie I admired throughout the series.
I was in complete denial when Ellie thought they were dead..it would have been too cruel.
Finally I've made up for all that lost time and I am so glad I did, instead of just staying with my first, twelve-year-old impression of "too scary" and then "too scary AND too many books." Seven sounds like a lot, but at only 330 pages this last one was the longest of the bunch.
And was super glad when Ellie finally realised the same thing a few pages later.
What a brilliant ending to the series, and I'm glad that it's not the very end and that now I have the Ellie Chronicles to read!
She escapes, and is reunited with her mother whom she stays with until news breaks that the war is over – Australia signed a peace treaty with the occupying power, resulting in the formation of a new nation on the continent for the invading forces and settlers.
Ellie, her mother and her father return to their farm and, like all the other survivors of the war, begin picking up the pieces of their lives.This book takes place on June 22nd.
The book follows the experiences of a group of teenagers who go and attack a convoy station.
(view spoiler)[ The end of the war is getting closer and Ellie and her friends are going to help out by doing what they can.
But somewhere along the way, Ellie gets separated from her friends and captured.
(hide spoiler)]The ending was rather sad, but very realistic, which was a good thing.
(view spoiler)[ While I hated to see Ellie and her friends essentially go their separate ways, I'm glad that the author didn't make everything happy and normal like it had been before the war happened.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ One last thing, I hated the character of Gavin.
(hide spoiler)]
This was the awesome conclusion to a seven-book series and the best.
The violence in these books is intense--there are seven kids fighting on their own against the invaders of their country--and sometimes the descriptions of not only what happens, but how they react to it, physically, spiritually, and emotionally is hard to read, but very real and honest.
The author doesn't give us a happily-ever-after ending for Ellie or any of the kids--how could he?
These kids went camping on holiday and came home to a deserted town and a country at war.
Wahnsinnig guter Abschluss der Reihe! Das Buch hat mich nochmal richtig mitgenommen. Ich werde Ellie in Co vermissen :(
Ok, I've finished the series and I would give it a clear 4.5 to 5 stars.
I loved it, in fact it's depressing to have finished :-(Oh and keep away from the film, it doesn't do it justice!!!
They should have made it in to a TV series.How I review...1 star - binned it before half way, please don't write anymore!!!2 stars - finally binned it after really trying, I mean really trying and I hate to not finishing someth....3 stars - finished it but boy was that hard work on times, it just about hooked me back in as I was about to dump it4 stars - great book but it lacked something, something, can't put my finger on it but....
So sad to leave this series, even though every book was very taxing.
Marsden is masterful at weighing the moral responsibility of war, especially of teens taking the war into their own hands.
I really feel the weight of Ellie's sorrow at taking lives, and her rage at the intruders that have stolen the lives of her friends.
I really didn't want to leave the war, but it had to end, and Marsden does a fine job of showing how at wars end the problems don't just go away.
It should be a must read for all young people, for it shows the harsh realities of war.
I have mixed feelings about the final book.
It was action-packed, which I should have loved, but I just didn't feel invested.
I didn't like how Ellie got split up from the others for half the book.
Considering how much I love the characters, I wanted more time with them, knowing this was they last book of the series, but that was cut short.
Overall, I liked how it ended and it was realistic, but I was also left wanting a bit more from it.
Overall, a good series that's held up very well.
Great conclusion to a great series!
I sped through this series in half the month of June (partly because I'm on a free Kindleunlimited trial, partly I need more to do during the summer) and loved it.
Some (dare I say many) of the books on KU don't seem worth the read but the Tomorrow series is not one of them.
I would definitely recommend to friends.
The characters are relatable and their actions are not without consequences (I've never been in a war so I have no idea if these are reasonable consequences, but seems logical enough).
Can't believe I've never heard of these books until last month!
I had to wait a few months for this to be released in the UK so I'd slightly lost the momentum of the series when I started, but once I got into it, Marsden got me hooked. For twenty four hours half of my mind was going about my daily life and the other half was in engaged in Australian guerilla warfare. It might not be the ending you want the series to have but it's probably the ending the series needs and overall I thought it was a good culmination to a great series.
The conclusion of the Tomorrow series, is just as entertaining as it was in the beginning. The whole gang have been through the most trialling time of their lives and the first time you read it the ending might feel bitter sweet but i think it captures what happens in real wartime perfectly. Things have changed that can not be undone and to have all the characters resolved perfectly would undermine the journey they have taken.
A good end to a gripping series. Like the 6th book it started off strongly. About halfway through, one unexpected line changed everything. I couldnt believe my eyes, and I was depressed when I went to bed that night! Alas, the last line was absolutely terrible. Still, I will definitely be starting the next series soon!
Oh no! The series is over. I'm sad there will be no more adventures of Ellie and her friends during the war. This last one was great, though. Lots of action, still, and prison camp and infamy and a (kind of) satisfying conclusion. My library doesn't have the Ellie Chronicles, so I'll have to find them elsewhere, but be assured that I will. There's got to be more to the story.
