https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/989030.Diggers
The trouble with having an open mind, of course, is that people will insist on coming along and trying to put things in it.Second part of The Nome Trilogy is just as fun as the first one.
I loved reading again about this character and this world Pratchett created.
I also loved that Diggers focused more on Dorcas' character because he's currently my favorite character of the series.
But nonetheless I love this series and I cannot wait to read the last part to see how is it going to end.
All that is with the exception of Masklin, who is determined to find out just where the Nome's are from.It's not long before the Nome's peace and tranquillity is destroyed when humans decide to reopen the quarry.Dorcus comes to the rescue when he find and repairs a neglected JCB digger that Nome's call "jekub".
All hell is about to breaks loose.I love the way Terry Pratchett takes the ordinary and turns it into something very extraordinary.
Another great book in the series - what more can I really say that was not started with Truckers but I will say this - the story is a little more maturer this time - characters seem to have grown up as well as the storyline they inhabit. The tale is still enthralling to young and old and still has the sense of mischief that Pratchett is so famous for.
Essentially, this trilogy is the Terry Pratchett version of THE BORROWERS, told in his own inimitable style (and, of course, with plenty of humour along the way).I'm not the ideal target market for this book - unlike the Discworld novels, it's clearly aimed at younger readers - but nevertheless it's a quirky and exceptionally fast-paced read.
I had it polished off after only a couple of sessions.The story picks directly up from DIGGERS and, as far as I can tell, the events of this sequel occur concurrently with the events from the third book in the trilogy, WINGS.
A fitting sequel to the first book! I thought it was just as engaging and interesting.
AY, Terry, te quiero ❤
A good book that picks up from the first of the trilogy, Truckers, six months down the line.
This was clearly Pratchett's way of portraying religious zealots and pointing out to them that maybe their way of thinking isn't always the best way.
As I've said many a time before, Pratchett's YA books are that in name only, the only difference between them and his "adult" work is the inclusion of chapters.
The character moments were good, the message behind the story was well told but sadly this feels exactly how it is.
It's not a bad book but it's not one of Pratchett's best.
[Quick review from memory before I re-read and re-review at a later date](Little memory of the series let alone the book, though I recall them stealing a lorry of some sort and heading off for the promise lands (some greenery). A great series to be re-read.)
The last we see of these fellows is heading off towards the airport...(This story is then picked up in book 3.)Meanwhile the other Nomes begin to listen to a rebellious none cammed Nisodemus (not Nicodemus LOL but the parallels are fairly obvious!) Unfortunately he is a bit crazy and this does not bode well for the welfare of the whole of Nomekind - so Grimma and Dorcas (and a few younger nomes) choose to disobey him with disastrous consequences.
They start to understand the consequences of the choices they are making, rather than blindly following the person who shouts the loudest.The ending is interesting because it makes you want to read the next book to find out exactly what did happen to Maskin and Co when they disappeared off to the airport...
The in-between bookNow that Masklin and Torrit have left to explore the place where those big metal things take off into the air, Grimma has to fend for herself.
Luckily Dorcas, the techno geek of the nomes, has a secret weapon at hand: Big John.Diggers is the second part of the Bromeliad trilogy, an adventurous fable about gnomes that want to return to their original homestead, intended for a younger audience.
The setting has been neatly composed in the first book and the finale has to wait until the next book.
I canï¿½t wait to start reading.
3.5 starsVery enjoyable. I love how the nomes have a naive innocence about them. This instalment finds them trying to make a home in the quarry, only to find out they may have to move. After the store, some younger nomes have had families and are reluctant for change. Grimma is a feminist, Masklin wanders off with some others to search for Arnold Bros. grandson, a nome with power in his sights comes to the forefront, and a whole lot shenanigans happen. Extremely enjoyable read. Easy and humerous.
Less exciting then the first, the Outside and Store nomes have now settled down in a semi-permanent home in a quarry. But all is not to be, as humans interfere with the nomes' plan, and their homes are placed in jeopardy. This is a continuation of the first book. Not as fun, but still a good read.
Another fun story about "little people." On to book 3 . . .
800 - 2016
Stejně jako první díl je i tohle pokrčování skvěle čitelné a zábavné... A zase snaha autora o přesah někam dál, stejně jako o super vtipné části. Prostě Pratchett :)
There wouldn't be any room for us to be us.'""Diggers" is the delightful continuation to the trilogy begun by "Truckers." As you would expect from a Pratchett book, there's plenty of zaniness action, with the final action sequence featuring a bunch of tiny gnomes trying to escape from human predation by making off in a JCB (a front-end loader) they've named Jekub.
In response, the Nomes have to fight back.Pratchett always had an uneasy relationship with the non-human world, and the whole problem of Other consciousnesses.
Interestingly, if somewhat depressingly, he was in general more empathetic and interested in the non-human earlier in his career, and "Diggers" is one of the high points in his fascination with the Other that is still us.
Diggers is a clever, entertaining take on the trope of tiny people living in secret alongside humans (or under their floorboards).
These little people, nomes, are aliens who are stranded on Earth and have made the best of it, living for generations under the floorboards of a department store until it was demolished at some point in the past and they were forced to venture out into the (very large) world and make a new home in a quarry.
But the humans have come to reopen the quarry, and the nomes realize they can't stay hidden any longer.I like the differing personalities of the nomes and their hilarious misunderstandings about human language, activities, and customs.
I didn't realize that when I started reading without having read the first book.
Six months after fleeing their former home in a department store, the Nomes have settled into a new life in an abandoned quarry.
Life here isn't as comfortable and requires more work, but here they are safe from humans.
Faced with the prospect of more humans, the Nomes (who are only four inches tall) must decide what to do next.While this book was written with a young reader audience in mind, Pratchett has filled this tall with some serious satire that will appeal to readers much older than the target audience.
The result is an entertaining book that can be enjoyed on a plurality of levels.
And it's a story about moving beyond the limits everyone accepts into the unknown at the same time.
It's a powerful indictment of the reactionary impulse, and a criticism of the progressive tendency to impatiently ignore the real weight of tradition.It's really good, folks.
I could've done without the women-shouldn't-do-men's-jobs plotline, but at least contradicting it gave us a few excellent central female characters.
I'm too old for this book, I know, but the concept remains comedic and creative.
I have no idea how to classify it.
Pratchett is excellent, generally, in everything, and this book is no exception--aside from the fact that reading it simply makes me want to read Discworld.
I have no idea what age range this was intended for, but I wish I'd read the whole trilogy at that age, because it easily could've become a childhood favorite.
Noin ekat kaksi kolmasosaa tästä oli vähän tylsähköä (jos ilkeä olisin niin sanoisin että tuntui samalta kuin seuraisi maalin kuivumista), mutta loppuosa oli sitäkin kovempaa. Tykkäsin tässä varsinkin Terrylle ominaisista syvällisistä keloista, tämä jotenkin osasi saada lukijansa symppaamaan milloin mitäkin zombeja, luurankoja, rottia ja tässä tapauksessa eräänlaisia tonttuja/mitälie mini-ihmisiä. Tykkään myös tän sarjan hieman odottamattomasta scifistisestä puolesta. Nämä ovat lasten kirjoja, mutta jotenkin tuntuu etten olisi osannut arvostaa näitä lapsena, niin kuin en osannut arvostaa Hobittiakaan ennen kuin vasta vanhempana.
The nomes from the Store are now with the Outside nomes. The Drivers have taken some power. Nisodemus tries to convince evreyone that the other leaders are incompetent. The nomes almost get run over by a train. They rope up a human and leave a message to leave them alone. They even drive a John Deere truck.
I really didn’t like this book. I don’t think Terry Pratchett or this series is for me at all. It was just so childish to me and not in a good way. The gnomes were also so annoying to me, I didn’t find them endearing like I did with the last book. I’m just over this and will definitely not be finishing the series, I can’t be bothered with it.
This is the second book of a series, the first book is Truckers, which I have also written a review about. This book is all about Gnomes and how they live in the world. It's a very interesting book and I would recommend it to anyone over 10, the author uses a lot of confusing words but makes a very good desceription of what is happening and how everything looks. This is an AMAZING book
Yep - just as good as the first one. Not as self-contained - more like a part 1 of 2 - which isn't a problem! The usual Terry goodness from around this time with wonderful ways of phrasing things. And a good story.
Diggers suffers a bit from middle-of-seriesitis, but still enjoyable. The story kinda repeats itself: the nomes have to leave, there are leadership struggles, religious fanatism and disbelief, and confrontations with humans. I enjoyed Grimma’s expanded role. Overall, more of a 3.5 star.
The Nomes may only be four inches tall, with limited reading and writing abilities, but when Grimma, the cleverest of the Nomes, brought up the Geneva Convention, I laughed. Terry Pratchett was a genius and his books are so well written. Extremely witty and original.
Segunda parte de la trilogía, igual de entretenida que la primera. En el Exterior hay muchos más peligros que en La Tienda y los gnomos siguen siendo las mismas curiosas criaturas que entienden el mundo a su manera.
Henkilöhahmoihin pääsi tässä osassa syvemmälle. Ontuilla on monia hauskan persoonallisia tapauksia riveissään. Juonenkulku pysyy kiinnostavana, ja trilogia säilyttää ensimmäisessä osassa syntyneen tunnelmansa.
I was half-way through this story before I realised I hadn't read the first book. However I pressed on and found a cute little story, and I will catch up with volume 1 soon
