https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/930183.The_Blind_Barber
I went through a period in the late nineties when I bought every John Dickson Carr (he also went under the name of Carter Dixon) book that I could lay my hands on.
I could only achieve that on one occasion.These mysteries had wonderful titles, such as "The Punch and Judy Murders", "The Peacock Feather Murders", "The Red Widow Meadows".This particular book, "The Blind Barber" involves Dr Gideon Fell, who was in many of these books.
and only Dr Fell could deduce the identity of the mysterious Blind Barber who seemed to have been wielding one of a set of seven cut-throat razors to such deadly effect."Addictive reading, well to me anyway.
Quasi una commedia, ricca di gag e situazioni divertenti. Ingegnosa la spiegazione del dottor Fell, basata solo sul racconto di uno dei protagonisti.
This happy band sets out to try and recover the film and along the way wind up bashing Captain Whistler (commander of the ship) over the head a few times, finding and losing an injured (and, quite possibly murdered) woman, stealing and losing and finding again an incredibly valuable emerald elephant....oh, and crossing paths with the Blind Barber, a rather nasty, murdering, thievin' sort of bloke who's in disguise.
And Captain Whistler is rather nice--when ranting he reminds me of Carr's other protagonist, Henry Merrivale, right down to the "Burn me's." But, in the end, the action just seems too over-the-top and silly to me.
#4 in the Gideon Fell series: and thank goodness I didn’t stumble upon this one first, or it would have been the last John Dickson Carr book I ever read.
Reading this book is like watching a Three Stooges movie; most of it is one drunken escapade after another which is meant to be funny—Carr even has Dr. Fell say that the best mysteries are founded on jokes.
Or maybe it’s just me; I didn’t find it funny, I found it tedious and kept waiting for the book to end.
(view spoiler)[ Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Book 48: Mid-20th Century American Crime ReadathonHook=3 stars: The ocean liner 'Queen Victoria' leaves NY with assorted suspicious characters.
Of course!Pace=2 stars: The days go by, the clues point....nowhere.
We veer off course into the unknown.Plot=2: Murder on a ship.
Or not.People=2: Lifeless marionettes more interesting than the live characters.Place=1: We could be anywhere, in a hotel, a country house, doesn't matter.
I like this author, have read work by Carr which is far better.
Perhaps it is because the characters stay drunk the whole time and no one knows what's going on.
Recommendation: Pass this one and select another by the same author.
A group of people, including Henry Morgan, the well-known detective fiction writer of previous books in this series, are on an ocean liner returning to England.
Then while Warren and his friends are in the cabin next door, waiting for the attacker to return for the rest, a woman calls out to him and the friends go out in the hall to check it out.
It is not until the ship reaches England that Dr. Gideon Fell is brought into the picture -- and then he is able to do his magic.I didn't really care much for this book, but it started out well and I was sucked in right away.
It was not a typical Dickson Carr if you ask me, it was more of a comedy then a detective novel.
It didn't impress me or anything like that.There was no locked room murder or an impossible one.
In fact the group of friend who are the main characters aren't even sure if what they saw was accurate and if a murder even happened, because all that they could rely on was what they saw after having a few drinks and no passenger was missing after they made inquiries together with the captain of the ship they ware sailing on.
The main plot circles around the impossible and hilarious disappearance and reappearance of a jewel and this hobby detective group that was formed on the Queen Victoria ship.
This is kinda fun if you are interested in the history of mystery novels.
Carr is a witty writer, funnier (to me) than, say, P G Wodehouse.
There are also countless cultural references to the 1930's which somehow I mostly recognized.
I was startled to see that people used an ironic "heh heh" way back then.The plot, and sometimes the prose, are pretty convoluted.
Carr insists on conveying dialects phonetically (British, Scottish, Norwegian, working class Britain, etc), though the results did not seem accurate to me.
I can't say the result was wonderful, but I did find it entertaining.

From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Thriller starring Donald Sinden as Dr Gideon Fell, John Hartley as Superintendent Hadley and Patrick Allen as Lord Sturton.Amateur sleuth, Dr Gideon Fell is an archetypal English eccentric created by American-born John Dickson Carr.Dramatised by Peter Ling. Director Enyd Williams.
This was a very poor murder mystery. Mr Carr tried to write a deliberately funny detective story and failed. Because so much of the story was given over to supposedly funny incidences, the real murderer was very clear to see. And worst of all, the humour was dreary. Maybe it was funny in 1934, but I doubt it.
Unreadable.
I started this book expecting a whodunnit sprinkled heavily with comic breaks but there was no suspense at all and I got tired of the bumbling idiots infesting the ship.Towards the end ,once I knew the who, I had very little interest in why and how .
This plot device is absurd as the narrator apparently is able to repeat telegram messages verbatim with punctuation and Dr. Fell is able to detect double meanings and clues in it without even asking for a repeat performance.!!!I am assuming this was a non standard and substandard outing for Carr and read a few others before giving up on him.
I would say I liked it for it was different. A book worthy of being made into a movie for the fun ride it offers and all the story elements- young, comical, adventure and ending with mystery reveal. The story takes various angles and somehow ends being part of Dr. Fell cases. Very different from other mysteries but suggest readers to go through till the end and not leave it in middle.
A great little mystery! Very thoroughly drawn and impenetrable until the moment of revelation...as it should be.
a murder farce.....slap-stick comedy in book form!!!! quite the page turner....hopefully not the only one in the series....guess I'll have to read-on to find out! brilliant..
If you love the old-fashioned mystery writers, an intricate and fascinating puzzle of clues, well described characters, and in the middle of all that a big splash of humor, this is for you.Add to that a tragic murder, a villain totally degenerate, and a trail cluttered with red herrings. I wonder if anyone figured out ahead of time 'whodunit'. When you finally see everything from Dr. Fell's point of view, you wonder how you missed it.
Halfway through, I realized I had read this before. In fact, not so long ago. Nevertheless, I kept reading. It is a really funny book and a classic Carr mystery. My only complaint is that there wasn't enough Dr. Fell.
Banyak kejadian yang cukup lucu di tiap babnya. 'komplotan' protagonisnya terkesan stumble upon new trouble terus, tapi itu yang bikin menarik. dari sisi misterinya terasa kurang, dan itulah yang membuat saya rate dua bintang.
A very funny, clever, English mystery. A smart book that made me laugh out loud.
Kindle Unlimited Free Trial |
read some time in 1988
The plot is decent, and as expected, Dr. Fell doesn't disappoint. I found the main characters in the plot a little annoying - downright stupid tbh.
An hilarious and expertly crafted adventure!
Good mystery, but not enough Fell!
Wanted to love it, but didn't. Too farcical, unfortunately. Shame, because I love the setting (which Carr puts to better use in Nine and Ten.)
