https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104219.Low_Country
Reading this while on Kiawah Island which is off the coast of SC made the descriptions so right on about this island resort area and nearby Charleston. The main character, Caro, describes living in these surroundings in such a way that I felt like she could have been someone here. Unfortunately the way she dealt with the death of her daughter and her husband's attitude toward her love of her island became more unrealistic as the story progressed.
I love all of Anne River Siddons books. She has a way of drawing you right into the page you are reading. I see myself sitting on the porch looking out at the marshes, hearing all the sounds of the Lowcountry!
A so-so read. I found it a bit dragging in places. Most characters were predictable. There was nothing much memorable. Usually I love 'southern living'- but these characters were quite boring, selfish and self-absorbed.
Ugh. Dreadful book. The protagonist is boring, pretentious, spoiled, & self absorbed. made myself finish it just for completion's sake
Dear lord, this book is a hot mess.
Most importantly, it is racism thinly veiled as cultural appreciation/multiculturalism.
Secondly, it is so overwrought that I laughed and gagged alternately.
"We ate of blue crabs, their juices dribbling down our chins, and drank of sweet, earthy wine from some far-away land, and the silvery marsh of the lowcountry sang its ancient, primeval song while the alligators, dark as mud, swam languidly in the swampy, warm waters, somehow in kinship with us, and the mosquitos got drunk on our thick, red, pounding blood." I'm paraphrasing, but this isn't far off from one of her sentences.
Barf.
I love a book that gets me invested in the all the characters and their lives. This book describes the country and characters without being flowery. A story of love and loss and life struggles. I was sorry to end it at 2:00 in the morning.
So HumanSiddons' characters are so full of emotion, and they draw from her readers feelings that probably seldom see light. She expresses those emotions in words that, for most people, are difficult to find. Reading her books is cathartic and educational.
Terrifically emotional. Be prepared for tears. Captures the true low country life you can feel every emotion and picture each person and placeuntrySee above notes. These are the back roads of south Carolina. Take them when you visit. So worth it. Stop and visit
Nicely evoked low country atmosphere. However, more self absorbed whining and crying than any other book I can remember.
She has drunk her grief away in the old cabin on the property that belonged to her beloved grandfather.
An old black settlement is also on the property, the people living there are descendants of slaves and the land by all rights belongs to them.
Clay's (Caro's husband) development business in in deep trouble and his solution is to develop the land that grandpa's cabin and the settlement is on.
In dealing with all of this, Caro comes to grips with her daughter's death and the need/ability to care for a five year old child with ties to the settlement who has lost everyone in her life.

The sights, the sounds, the smells of the marshland, the wild ponies, and the Gullah community of Dayclear will permeate your skin and soul as you read this moving tale of Caro's fight to save her beloved island that has been in her family for all her life. She must also deal with the unresolved grief over the death of her daughter as well as the betrayal of her husband as he is planning to sell it to a development group. Told with heart and a group of characters you will not soon forget.
I liked this more than I thought I would after reading the beginning. I did have a little trouble with a few aspects of the story, like how easily the main character kicked alcoholism. I also thought some of the supporting characters were a little stereotyped. But it was a fun read and I learned a few things about the cultures involved.
I enjoyed this book...I’m reading Charleston fiction in preparation for a trip to South Carolina. Some surprises here...much of the plot is predictable. I felt the characters were well-developed and the descriptive, vivid details provided by the writer allowed me to imagine the beauty of marsh life.
An intriguing story of a woman whose family has owned land on one of the barrier islands in the Atlantic and how her husband's business troubles almost result in her losing the property and everything that makes it special to her. It also details how her relationship with her husband is threatened by the property struggle, and how the loss of her daughter years earlier figures into the story.
Long, had a tough time getting through it. Not sure how this book has a 3.97 rating on here? I have a bunch of this author's books on my actual shelf that I have collected from used book stores over the years. At this point, I am in no hurry to pick them up and start to read them.
I don't know. I really wasn't in love with this book. It struck me as unrealistic and the characters, while interesting were not compelling. I can't remember when I actually finished it, but it certainly didn't prompt me to write a review at that time.
I liked this much better than her other books. There were some nice twists and I was satisfied with the conclusion.
I really enjoyed reading this book and would have rated higher except for parts of the ending. Still an enjoyable read though!
I love all of the novels I have read of Siddons' and this one is no exception - a beautiful story of a woman's transformation from merely existing to actually living. HIGHLY recommend!
Started off slow but raced into a real story that I could not put down. Siddons writes very well. Her writing reflects the love she has for this beautiful area of the country.
2 is too low, 3 too high. I couldn't really connect with it, but the plot is OK. Maybe if it had been written differently?
Hard to put down
To long in some parts and I didn't like how it ended abruptly.
Outstanding story by Anne Rivers Siddons.
I read this maybe 10 years ago. All her books are the same. Very readable, lots of Woman Drama, and semi-evil villains, and somehow you forget them very quickly.
I have to say I was a little bored by this book. The characters were unremarkable. The descriptions of the low country were beautiful, but nothing else spoke to me.
I rarely start a book and don’t finish it, but after a year I had only made it three chapters into this one. There are too many good books to read to continue trying to muddle through this one.
While this genre is a favorite of mine, I truly struggled reading this author's style. Way too much setting description. Not captivating. Easy to set aside.
An excellent voice in Southern literature.
