https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/694282.To_the_Finland_Station
The most interesting chapters are those in the very beginning, where Wilson recognizes the importance of the historical cycles of Giambattista Vico, and then traces them through the historians of the French Enlightenment, Michelet, who defined the Renaissance.After him, we have Renan, who was among the foremost rationalist critics of Christianity and nationalism, then Taine, one of the first 'scientific' analysts of history, then the novelist Anatole France, who poked fun at the Church with a story about the baptism of penguins, and the Revolution with The Gods Are Athirst.The origins of Socialism itself come from the French Revolutionary Babeuf, a sort of anarcho-communist, and Saint-Simon, a founder of a sort of technocratic sect, and his follower, Enfantin, who was among the first to theorize 'free love', some 130 years before the American counterculture.
To the Finland Station slowly but surely gained readers in the years after 1947, perhaps due to Wilson’s growing reputation as a left critic of the Soviet Union—Wilson wrote a new introduction to the 1972 edition of the book published by Farrar, Strauss and Giroux in which he argued that the path from Lenin to Stalin was fated.
To the Finland Station was a much different read without the weight of all that baggage.In that Introduction to the 1972 edition mentioned above (this is the book I have), Wilson admits that there is too rosy a view of the socialist experiment as found in Russia after the Revolution, and as well a too rosy view of Lenin.
Wilson shows Marx as victim of the usual revolutionary contradiction, as the humanitarian who loves The People, but doesn’t like people--an insufferably haughty Herr Doktor, a cantankerous, biting, paranoid, misanthropic pain-in-the-ass who had difficulty getting along with anyone except Engels, a worldly bon vivant who submissively exchanged a “sketching” prose style of humane raconterie for an hermetic cackle much like Marx’s.
When Wilson is really writing, applying his literary talents to picturing the past, the result is a Marx who is human and self-contradictory and real.
Neither the working class, nor women as a gender, were entitled to vote, so it was difficult to understand how they could participate in a democratic process, except by appealing to the altruism and generosity of their economic, social and political opponents and oppressors.History as Man Creating HimselfEdmund Wilson divided his book into three sections:●	The rise and fall of the revolutionary tradition (as it relates to the French Revolution);●	The origins of socialism (up to Marx and Engels); and●	The background of the Russian Revolution in October, 1917.The French Revolution was essentially a bourgeois revolution against the feudal aristocracy, which maintained that its legitimacy and authority derived from religion and God. What was, was right, because God willed it.
[ETA: finished; loved it.] It corrects the common perception that Communism was an invention of mostly Marx and partly Engels by detailing the movement's antecedents in Saint-Simon, Fourier, Owens, and others, most of whom were inspired in turn by the French revolution.
It's an unusual intelligence that can assimilate stories about Marx's romance with Jenny von Westphalen but can't bear to muster more than a few sentences on The German Ideology.The other thing this book lacks is a sense of the complexities of Russian politics.
Edmund Wilson was a polymathic literary critic. While his books on historical subjects--such as this one and those on the Dead Sea Scrolls--are not expert, they do serve as excellent, albeit opinionated, introductions and they are beautifully written.To the Finland Station begins with the Enlightenment and ends with Lenin and the Russian Revolution. It is basically a chronological survey of the development of socialist ideas. The portrait of Lenin is a bit idealized, but is representative of much opinion at the time of writing.
The history of European socialist thought (1600-1900) surveyed by any competent author would be a worthwhile read; but in the hands of Edmund Wilson?
A book to test anyone's mettle.
For this famously difficult and vexatious kind of subject matter--one which has long resisted assimilation--Wilson is just the man for the job.
What kind of mind must Wilson have enjoyed to tackle this topic (amid all his other ambitions, activities, and concerns)?
His analysis always arrives clean, refreshing, & linear.Wilson is authoritative--Holmesian--in the way he can compare examples one-to-the-other.
Wilson knows his topic cold.
History could be told this way, if we really wanted it to... an interplay of ideas and circumstances, beginning with Michelet's reading of Vico and ending with Lenin's arrival at the Finland Station, ready to start his revolution. Suddenly all these ideas, all these people are rendered as fully fleshed characters with as much personality and subjectivity as the protagonists of a 19th Century psychological novel. And a finer explication of the socialist ideal-- what it is, what it was, what it could have been, where its failures and potentials lay-- I could not have imagined.
The stories are well worth knowing, and reading.Got to lose a star on account of Wilson's having been sucked into taking Lenin to be a better man than he actually was.
It makes a lot of sense, the way he explains it.He learned German to read Hegel in the original to study him to get better background on Marx (!) and he learned Russian (an exceptionally hard language to learn, I'm told) in order to get to the quick.
The thing is, my philosophy professors told me that the Hegel Wilson explains is actually perfectly fine.
This was really far more engaging than you might think. But then again, I like books in which writers write about other books with clear and almost palpable relish. A very good time for an overview of revolutionary literature.
Wilson spends the course of this wonderful book showing the various personal and intellectual linkages between the thinkers of the French revolution and tracing their influence and successors all the way down to Lenin returning triumphantly to a 1917 Russia ripe for socialism.
As an American, I found reading it immensely helpful, most european history (at least as its taught in American highschool) after the French revolution is usually just discussed as a pretext for WWI, and almost never regarded as an age with its own unique blend of economic and social pressures.
I can't recommend this book enough. It follows the thread of a belief in history. Each generation seems to build on the last in formulating the theory that eventually leads to the Russian Revolution. The title refers to Lenin's being shipped through Europe in a sealed train car back to Russia and let out at the "Finland Station" where the strange religion of the self as an actor in history changed the world.Bakunin, Marx, Engels, Vito, Hegel and others are painted as vivid characters.
Edmund Wilson -- he's not just for "Axel's Castle" and postmodern criticism anymore! Opened my eyes to entire subplots of the early twentieth century's Left of which I'd previously been ignorant, with all the style, panache and wordsmithing you'd accept from the West's greatest modern critic.
These excuses are drearily familiar by now, having trotted out when the butcher's bill was presented for Stalin, Mao, Pol Pot...One of the great things about Edmund Wilson's idiosyncratic To the Finland Station, is that he gives the lie to the common refrain that the dictatorship into which Venezuela is now descending is some sort of perversion of 'true' socialism.
Tracing the ancestry of socialism from the French Revolution, Wilson writes about The Society of Equals who drafted a constitution that provided for 'A great national community of goods'.
The second section of the book is an excellent history of socialism, focusing on Marx and EngelsEngels and outlining their main ideas.
Edmund Wilson takes us through an enjoyable history of the development of Marxist thought with a critical eye and the interweaving of the personal with the intellectual. As someone in my book club said earlier, I'd much rather hang out with Engels than Marx. The book is way too forgiving of Lenin, as Wilson admits in his addendum three decades later. But I feel like learned something, so I'll file under Time Well Spent. #informativereviews
Awesome book. Wilson shows he really knows his stuff in this narrative history of ideas and major figures involved in the development of socialist thought. But he insists on a moral Marxism that he believes exists inherently in the texts, but this point is debatable. Whatever moral philosophy people get out of Marxism they typically have put into Marxism.
A college friend claimed this as his favorite book, but I was still surprised by how much fun it was to read.
Wilson applies the methods of literary criticsm (at least as it was practiced in the mid-twentieth century) to historic documents and the memoirs of revolutionaries to trace the history of European socialist thought between the French and the Bolshevik revolutions.
I actually read the original 1940 version, not this one.
It starts slowly - the first part discusses (I think, it took me a while to get through) the petering out of the original ideals of the French Revolution before the story finally picks up with the development of socialism from the early 19th century onward.
The discussions of Marx, Engels, Lenin and Trotsky are very interesting but clearly from the framework of a 1940 liberal.
When the subject matter is interesting, it's worth it.
When it's not, it's painful.Overall a very good read but not outstanding.
The year 1916, the Tsarist regime is shaky. Bread riots erupt in major cities. Kerensky is arguing for a parlaimentry system and to remain in the war. The Germans hustle Lenin from Switzerland and ship him across Europe in a sealed train like some highly contagious disease and have him debark at the Finland Station near St. Petersburg. It has its intended effect. Written in clear, acerbic prose by that curmudgeon Edmund Wilson who knows all about the bolsheviks, the mensheviks, the anachists. This is a great read.
Literary critic Edmund Wilson delves into a history of Socialist thought before the Russian revolution. The title refers to the moment when the book ends, when Lenin returned to Russia by train through Finland. Wilson's writing style is incredible - no simple journalistic phrases -- instead great complex sentences, illustrating a lost art of language.
Takes a little effort but very worth it. I very much like the way Wilson writes.
There is an inherent dignity in humankind, and we should be working toward making life better for everyone.
In the end the poor were no better off than they had been under the kings.And so the thinkers went back to work.
Some enemies of the people were incorrigible, and the world might be better off without them anyway.Marx and Engels thought they had discovered a scientific system that governed human progress, moving inevitably from slavery through feudalism, capitalism, socialism, and finally, “from each according to his ability to each according to his needs”, Communism.
This book has special resonance today (in late 2017); economic considerations are the fundament of socialism, an attempt to imagine and institute a political system which could lessen the plight of the poor, of low-wage workers and those in unnecessarily onerous or dangerous jobs, as against economies operating in effect to satisfy the greed of the wealthy who benefit from those people and circumstances and enjoy political systems which evolved to sustain or increase the obvious inequities of wealth.At issue is always how to institute a true socialist state in place of another.
Reading this book is recommended.
The reader is drawn into an intimate portrait of the men (never women) featured in a meandering, self-entitled "study of the writing and acting of history" that leads up to Lenin's return to Russia in 1917.What I find unforgivable about Wilson's text is his treatment of the so-called American Socialists (most of whom were actually European, apparently) and his analysis of the United States in the early 19th century, before the civil war.
And the socialist movement both relieved the congestion and revived the disillusioned political thinkers."That Wilson, an American, can write a book on socialism, include a chapter on America and not only ignore slavery entirely but also contribute to founding narrative of settler colonialism in North America is astonishing to me.
None of that would be all that fatal, if not for the book's decision, by the time we get to Marx and Engels, to apparently give up on meaningful attempts to continue tracing the development of the ideas of socialism.
Wilson fails miserably, in my view, in conveying the theoretical framework and development of the ideas that Marx and Engels set out in Capital, and which Lenin built upon.
Edmund Wilson writes well and creates a compelling narrative of the intellectual foundation of modern (at least in his time) Soviet Russia by taking us through historico-revolutionary thought from the 17th to the 20th century.
His passages on Vico, Marx, and Lenin show a particular personal attachment, but he nonetheless does a good job of outlining their intellectual and personal flaws.There's one passage that's disheartening in light of today's events--Wilson outlines how Marx could not have predicted the democratic state in America and suggests that perhaps a society where people have their basic needs provided and have a say in government is possible without revolution.
Wilson era erudito e grande escritor, e esses fatores tornam esse livro não só fácil de ler, mas também inspirador como ponto de partida para outras leituras.
A propósito de uma suposta visão idealizada de certas pessoas e eventos, em especial a respeito de Lênin, na terceira parte, é importante ter em mente que esse livro, como qualquer outro, não pode ser lido sem se levar em conta a época e o contexto em que foi escrito.
Para um leitor não especializado, como eu, Rumo à Estação Finlândia é uma excelente introdução ao socialismo e à crítica dele.
Timeless, particularly as a contemporary (as in mid-1940s) history of Lenin and the ascendance of Communism (with a capital "C").
Be prepared for a long, but informative, slog through French socialist history, Marx and Engels, before finally getting to Lenin's sojourn through Germany and back into Russia.
My only complaint is the lack of explanation of how Lenin's return quickly morphed into the oppressive Soviet regime and Stalin.
He, Lenin, was a leader of only one of several factions arrayed against the Czar; then, seemingly overnight, he's in charge.
Note, I know that story, but it's odd that Wilson didn't write it.
Old question: how could someone who has never experienced Socialism / Communism / Marxism possibly understand it other than academia-wise?(Make no mistakes, this truly a questions I've been thinking for years, both in my own research as well as in my reading of researches done by others.)
Michelet represents the thesis and he is negated, implying that Marx's thinking represents a synthesis.Section Two weaves the biographies Marx and Engles, the evolution of their philosophy, the politics of mid-19th century Europe, and the industrial revolution into a single narrative - suggesting that Marxism is the obvious upshot of these elements.
Wilson then introduces the men who move past theory to become active forces in history - thus another negation as Marx the man is left behind and Marxism takes its own course.The implication in Section 3 is that Lenin represents the final synthesis.
