https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161037.Lanark
Çok sert bir şekilde kapitalizm eleştirisi yapan Lanark, bilimkurgu ve fantastik romana ait gerçeküstücülüğü, diğer edebi türleri içinde yer alan gerçeklik temasıyla birlikte kullanan aynı zamanda bir distopya örneği.Kitabın atmosferi bazı okurlar tarafından çok kara ve simsiyah bulunması ve bu karamsarlık tonlarının okuru sıkabileceği eleştirisi yapılsa da açıkcası bu fikre hiç sahip olmadan kitabı okuduğumu belirtmeliyim.
Bu durumda, kitabın geleneksel ve yenilikçi türleri çok başarılı şekilde içinde barındırmasına ve okuyuca alışıldık olmadığı süreçlerin içine dahil eden bir okuma deneyimi sunuyor.Sonuç: Lanark, alışılmış olmayan (dönemine göre ve bence hala şu an da geçerli) farklı edebi perspektiflerin bir araya getirildiği ve kahraman- yaratıcı temasını bilimkurgu, büyüsel gerçekcilik ile harmanlandığı, ya da diğer bir deyişle Gray'in bilimkurgu ve fantazi edebiyatı bir aracı olarak kullandığı müthiş bir postmodern eser.
Some novels are like the Cheshire Cat, the only thing left of them is their smile. Can't remember much about this big, crazy book but I do remember it was big, and crazy, and about Glasgow, and not-Glasgow, which was called Unthank. I thought it was brilliant, but I can't tell you why now. Everything has faded except that sometimes i look up and there's its smile in the air.
I read Alasdair's part hopelessly biographical, part darkest fantasy Lanark in the spring of 2007.
In those days I'd identified the character(s) Lanark/Thaw to the person I was in love with (especially the artist parts).
Like judging someone for drinking piss in the desert.]) Right or wrong, I'm the one doing the reading all by my lonesome, and eventually, no matter how good the writer is, it's gonna become like a memory altered by one's own perspective.
If it is good enough to feel like an experience, anyway.
(An experience Lanark most definitely is.) Right or wrong, I'm suffocated by an overdose of that...
Books 1 and 2 tell the story of Duncan Thaw, an asthmatic, intellectual child growing up in Glasgow and finding his feet as an artist.
But while the Lanark story provides lots of weird and fascinating encounters, the Duncan Thaw narrative inevitably just seems a bit humdrum and dreary in comparison.
I must have read a hundred books about asthmatic, intellectual children growing up, having no success with girls, and trying to make themselves into artists.
It's a shame, because Book 3 (with which the novel opens) is a brilliant start, and sadly the rest of the work never quite lives up to the exuberance and originality of those first few chapters.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Inflated Footnotes: "Lanark - A Life in Four Books" by Alasdair Gray(Original Review, 1981-03-10)I don't have problem with intertextual interpretation as such. It's only that I've always seen reading as a collaborative process between an author and a reader. If you look at it that way, it makes you wonder which parts of deep reading “Lanark” come from the mind of Alasdair Gray and which come from the attic of your own subconscious. I also wonder if it matters which mind it comes from, at least when reading fiction.
In this section of the book, Lanark, our hero, lives a rather purposeless life in Unthank (parallel universe Glasgow), cavorts with these layabouts there before being sucked underground by a giant pair of lips.
But before doing so, he is told the story of his former life as one Duncan Thaw by a portable oracle.
Thaw lived in the real Glasgow, which I was pleased to see meticulously described for the first time in any fiction that I have ever read.
Lanark hakkında genel kanımı kısaca söylememi isteseniz; çok iyi olmanın kenarından dönmüş bir roman olduğunu söylerdim.
Bunu yaparken de bir yolculuk kurgulayıp, ayrıksı görünen ama aslında çok sıradan biri olan karakteri Lanark’ı belli sarmalların içinde dolandırıp, klasik yapıya zaman zaman çelme takan bir öykü tasarlamış.
Her bölüm kendi içinde güzel ancak bütünde bir kakafoni, bir bulanıklık.
Belki de “Uykuda Çocuk Ölümleri”nin ardından bu kitabı okuduğum için böyle hissediyorum bilmiyorum.Diğer yandan Lanark çok olağandışı bir roman.
Kapitalizm hakkında birçok yazar kurmaca yazmıştır mesela ama Gray içlerinde cidden parlayacak bir şekilde derdini anlatıyor.
Çeviri bana bir rahatsızlık vermedi, hatta zaman zaman çok lezzetli olduğunu düşündüm.
I do not know what I just read.
In the best possible way.What can I say that doesn't spoil something?-It's illustrated by the author.
And your fucking head.-Just when you think you know what's going on, you don't.Tonight I went to the library to see some local new author guy talk about his book which is completely irrelevant to this review.
But what is relevant is that the guy sitting in front of me put the book he was reading on the seat next to him when the author-guy started talking.
And, because I'm a book-fiend, I contortioned my body to see what he was reading.
I don't think that Gray (and it is Gray speaking clearly through Thaw / Lanark, his self identification / self insertion is one of the reasons why the book is painful to read) is right when he says that a city needs to be used by an artist in order for the inhabitants to live in it imaginatively - or to imagine themselves living in it.
I've lived most of my life in an unimagined / unused small town which in which I imagined myself living all my life without feeling the need for other people or artists' stories to inhabit it.
But that was how it felt as I finished reading it--Alasdair Gray grinning, giving me the finger.I was amused, angry too, but smiling.
He clenched his fist, stuck his middle finger out, and showed it to everyone.On the other hand, if this were a serious book, then I can liken it to Yukio Mishima, the famous Japanese writer.
This novel of four books similarly disemboweled itself in the end.The reader gets to read first the third (3rd) book where he is brought to a dark place called Unthank.
Gray, judging from his drawings (yes, this has his drawings AND self-portraits) is probably insane.
Crazy, frustrating, intensely boring in parts and brilliant in others, Lanark is Gray's stab at the Divine Comedy. Divided into four non-consecutive books, two of which take place in the Glaswegian hell of Unthank, the other two in Glasgow, we follow the life of Duncan Thaw (or Lanark, as he is called in Unthank) through his youth, death, and afterlife. I loved the dragons in book 3--an eczema-like disease leads to people becoming full-blown dragons. This felt like a perfect image for the emotional state of just about every character in this novel.
Started out interesting, and I was looking forward to finding out more of the strange world and how people ended up and got out of there, but the main character seriously annoyed and even more so when I got to his "real" life. A more narcissistic, misogynistic and antisocial character I've seldom met, and I found it hard to keep reading about him. It got a bit more interesting in the last part, but the world-building never really worked for me. Interesting but flawed.
One of my favorite books of all time. One of my most prized possessions is a beautiful collector's edition of this book I received as a gift. Although it is an amalgamation of many things--weird sci-fi dystopia/apocalypse, coming-of-age artist portrait, and political and class satire among them--it is one of the most wholly original works I have read, and it is deeply affecting. I adore this book.
You really need to take your time with this novel, and allow yourself to be sucked into Gray's two worlds (very similar and very different in equal amounts).
And I have to say, I preferred the two sections that were set in Glasgow, with Duncan Thaw as our narrator more than the Unthank/Lanark sections.
The worlds created in this novel are extremely vivid, and you really feel the emotions of Thaw and Lanark as the book progresses.
That being said, some of the characters who come into contact with Thaw/Lanark were equally despicable.
As I was reading it, I was thinking, ah, this book is going to be one of those five star books, maybe even a favorite.
It's a narrative of a life, with maybe more mental illness in it than most, but okay, competently done, worth reading.
I feel like he must not have had any editor of any kind, because there is no way that anyone competent would let this pass.
What do you say to people, oh it's a great book, in fact it's a terrible book, don't go past page 150 whatever you do, uh, dude, I can't describe it you'll just have to read it yourself?
It's a sensible way to lay it out, but it has the side effect of seeming like it's arranged so that you'll be forced to read the less interesting middle part (also the part that more closely resembles Gray's life, it seems) in order to get back to Unthank.
Luckily, the so-called Epilogue can be entirely disregarded.Despite the flaws listed above, Gray's writing is for the most part endlessly inventive, and his descriptions are among the best I've read, although they can get self-indulgent.
Alasdair Gray notes in the Epilogue section, strangely on p.
This note, well the entire section, appears to reconcile the disparate narratives which occupy the novel.
Seldom have I ever encountered such polarizing sections; the Thaw scenes I absolutely loved and the Lanark/Unthank episodes were perfectly dreadful.
The artist's failure to love is mirrored with Hell's thwarting of contentment.
It does beg some reflection.It was good novel for one's birthday week, especially while entertaining dear visitors from overseas.
Lanark was good for all that.
Lanarks works and it is good to love and endure.
"But now the fantasies were imbecile frivolity, and poetry was whistling in the dark, and novels showed life fighting its own agony, and biographies were accounts of struggles toward violent or senile ends, and history was an infinitely diseased worm without head or tail, beginning or end." When a mind loses its way in reality it tries to hide in madness.
Lanark is a self-aware novel in which the main character switches back and forth between an allegorical post-apocalyptic world and the grim landscape of industrial Scotland.
Sexy, funny, and importantly political, Lanark is worth the investment of time it takes to get what's going on in these several hundred pages.
And more importantly, it will hopefully move its readers to be more successful in fighting the military capitalist juggernaut than its titular character.
This book took me by surprise in every way.
It was recommended to me by a patriotic Scotsman, so I was a bit skeptical, thinking that maybe his pride might be altering his judgment on the actual quality of the book.
Despite all of this, the book blew me away.
It's a bildungsroman of the most bizarre calibre; that's what I love about it.
I don't think one reading will do it justice.
I wasn't ready for it the first time!I also truly loved the graphics, which were so in sync with the story itself, its impossible to imagine one without the other.
This really is a masterpiece. Flawed, especially in the last book which occasionally tried my patience, but even then it is so brilliantly written and conceived that I had to read on. Special thanks to Montambo and Paul, otherwise I would have never heard of this, a true modern piece of literature that I believe captures the late 20th century. Even its flaws of self-consciousness matches the main character's true weakness of spiritual yearning and emptiness.
Lanark is a story (or two) told in the wrong (but really quite right) order, a dystopian take on all the things that so readily lend themselves to the dystopian treatment: capitalism, power, love, etc. There are funny bits, fantastical bits, postmodern bits, and depressing bits, and Alasdair Gray is beyond smooth at weaving them all together.
impressionante, e tanto più impressionante poiché per lo più sconosciuto da noi
the thaw section made me kind of uncomfortable because i was more or less that guy in college but with books instead of arts. ewwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww.nnnow at thirty eight i'm a grown up with a job and i read dragon ball the comic on the bus, glad i've moved on from that phase of my life
From BBC Radio 4 - Saturday Drama:Dramatisation of Alasdair Gray's cult classic by Robin Brooks with Alasdair Gray.First published in 1981, Lanark changed the face of Scottish literature for a generation and propelled the visual artist Alasdair Gray into the literary limelight.It's a modern masterpiece that spans three worlds in four books, and tells the connected stories of Duncan Thaw - a student at Glasgow's Art School in the 1950s - and Lanark - a man who wakes to find himself in an unspecified period in the strange yet familiar place, Unthank.Unthank is a city with no sun and no sense of time.
Bitireli çok zaman olmuştu askıda kalmış.. Lanark kapağında yazdığı gibi çok katmanlı 4 kitaplık çok hayatlı bir içiçelik.Neden bu kadar uzun olduğu hakkında kendinden de uzun cümleler yazılabilir ama gerek yok gibi. Kitabın icerigine girmeyeceğim çünkü bu bir kulüp okuması idi. Benim de aklıma takılan ve merakla beklediğim cevaplar var ama bunları almam zaman alacak. Kitaptan kırdığım bir yıldız edebiyatının benim açımdan zayıf olduğunu düşünmemdendir fakat bunun dışında kalan her şeyin de tum yıldızları toplaması kitabın iç gücünü gösteriyor. Belki bir süre sonra yorumunu güncellemek için dönerim. Saygılar.
Post-modern but not post-modern, says El. Impossible to review, she says. Anything she says will ruin it, she says. 'Kay.
Strange, bleak, seducing darkness.
The quest for love, for artistic recognition, for immortality of any kind - these are the focal points of Thaw's fears, his desires and hopes.
Let yourself be seduced.
Seduced, yes, but not enslaved.
There's hope yet, if not now then in what comes after.
In Lanark's afterlife redemption comes in political terms.
Unexpected, maybe even unwanted and certainly not what Thaw had foreseen, but redemption nonetheless.
The book is a six-hundred page catharsis, or maybe a purification.
Nonetheless, Lanark overdelivers on its promise: it's more than a life in four books.
In Lanark the author wrote his own afterlife.
If you'll forgive the crass comparison, this novel resembles a mash-up of Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and Dante's Inferno.
Actually, it doesn't quite resemble any of those things, but if you would enjoy reading any of the above, you must pick this novel up immediately.The plot?
Well...there is no way to describe the book without making it sound much more trite than it actually is.
If you want a great novel to disappear into, pick it up.
I've recommended it to several people since reading it myself, and they all devoured it and thanked me profusely afterwards.
It's an endless present, but there are ways to escape - people disappear mysteriously, others succumb to the strange diseases this peculiar form of hell generates.
Lanark's escape will take him into another circle of hell where he'll hear the story of a life that was once his and where the life he now lives will change forever.Starring Sandy Grierson, Melody Grove and Siobhan Redmond, with a guest appearance by Alasdair Gray.It opens with Book III Chapter 1.
The Elite: The Elite Café was entered by a staircase from the foyer of a cinema.
