https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/563782.Collected_Poems_1947_1980
I had just heard about Ginsberg and read about him in Kerouac's books, often as 'Irwin Garden', and was fascinated by this modern-day bard, who was also a close friend of Bob Dylan's.
Now to Ginsberg as a poet......I would classify the poems in this book (a very large, heavy and important volume of work) very loosely and broadly into three categories - 1) brilliant, iconoclastic poems; 2) interesting poems which give you an insight into his mind at the time and what he was preoccupied with but are not extremely well crafted; and 3) pretty shit/instantly forgettable poems.
I am still re-reading and savoring the book that when found in my locker in military boot camp (1965), got me called before the base commander and almost tossed out of the service. The questions: My past use of drugs and leanings toward communism. They kept the book :-( and simply gave me a stiff warning about what was American and what was not ... :-) I still love Ginsberg - I don't know what that says about my patriotism. :-)
My copy still retains two book marks, commemorating the era in which I read this...1.
I think it would be fun!"2.
A note that was left on my car that reads, "Hey baby, I think you're really cute.
E-mail me at natasha@____.com and we can get to know each other."The postcard was written to me by a girl who thought that Bush's "Glycerine" was beautiful poetry; and the note was a joke from my friend, Rich, who had an e-mail account named after his cat, Natasha.
*David Cross is a dead-ringer for Allen: http://youtube.com/watch?v=VyWgzUGOliw
Right now he might be my favorite poet, but I haven’t read much poetry, so that’s likely to change.About the poems: let me say that while Howl was deeply moving and spoke for an entire generation, I think Wichita Vortex Sutra- a powerful critique against the storms of industrialization & the Viet Nam War, using the Great Plains of Middle America as an allegorical backdrop for the vortex of Kali Yuga- earns an equal stake as masterpiece.
It seemed like he couldn’t write a poem without at least one reference to his dick.
یک روزی آدم های مهمی می شوند. نسلِ بیت را می گویم. یک روزی می رسد که از بستر الکل و دودی که از آن بیدار شدند، آثار فراموش نشدنی ای به جا خواهد ماند. فعلاً که براتیگان عزیز دل دارد فرضیه ام را اثبات می کند.منتظر باشید. این ها روزی کلاسیک های آینده می شوند...
Warning. This book is full of poems by Allen Ginsberg.
SIX WORD REVIEW: Vietnam and Buddha, Beat and radical.
4 1/4 stars
Howl remains my favorite.I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked...
Forget me not!One of the first pictures I saw of Allen Ginsberg was in this red Collected Poems; it’s 1978, and he’s meditating with his companion Peter Orlovsky on the tracks in front of an oncoming train at Rocky Flats, which made the plutonium triggers for nuclear weapons, right outside Boulder, Colorado, where I grew up and currently reside.
That evening in my red Collected I revisited the picture of Allen Ginsberg in front of the plutonium trigger train, an act of protest 23 years after his sunflower (“To be in any form, what is that?” –Walt Whitman), writing that train from existence by daring it to remember him: “And you Locomotive, you are a locomotive, forget me not!”

What is there to really say! The book is almost a complete collection of Ginsberg. You can trace his genius from a young age to an old age: it shows the development of his mind. Overall Ginsberg is possibly the greatest spiritual yet radical poet I know of. If you haven’t read Ginsberg you should hang your head in shame. Seriously, though if you haven’t read him, you should. You could possibly like myself learn about yourself and Ginsberg simultaneously.
My off the top of my dome poem/review to Allen about his book of poemsAllen, I know that in between time life and space you are a genius and allSo I hope you're open to this mortal's notePoems are not novels and novels are not Poems.Poems should be brief like kissesMaking heads wanna feel moreBut still, thanks for the wild tripIts been one Bro.
Wonderful. One of the best poets in the modern age. This is the best collection of his work I have yet to see. If anyone is beginning to get into Ginsberg, this is the book for you!
Prefer his very early and "Howl" period poetry to his other stuff. Has a few themes and images that he hammers to death in a way I'd be afraid to do, but he makes it work.
Living so many years after the publication of Howl it is sometimes easy to forget the colossal impact Ginsberg had on modern poetry, but this collection is a great reminder.
Not sure about Ginsberg

He signed my copy while at Village Green Bookstore on Monroe Ave. I remember the staff hurrying him along with his signing. He didn't acknowledge me much because of the hurrying, or was it the boy behind me in line was much more interesting, I am not sure. He signed his name under his printed name and dated it 5/24/96. I really like that I have this book with his signature. (The only other books that I have signed are by Lois Lowry) During his visit to Rochester at this time, I saw him speak at Nazareth College. Quite enjoyable.
I have withstood criticism from more conservative acquaintances over my respect of much of so called "beat" literature but reading this virtually complete collection of Allen Ginsberg's poetry provides a perspective. Sure there are poems which are dated having ties to cultural trends no longer in vogue but reading this collection leaves me with a feeling of vindication for my critical eye. In the final analysis I think that history will affirm that Ginsberg produced some of the most innovative and interesting poetical literature of the latter half of the 20th century.
I am FINALLY finished with this monster.
The worst poetry I've ever read, but I finished it.
I can mark it off the list of 1001 books to read before I die.
And trust me, it almost killed me to read it.
His poetry is vulgar to the point of perversion, and I have a pretty perverted mind myself.
Most of them just make no sense at all.
I'm not a political person by any means, and so that's partially why they are over my head, and I didn't grow up in his era I guess, but I just didn't get them.
Ginsberg can be very serious, yes, but he's also very comedic. "C'mon Jack" is a miss, quite bad as a poem, but that's about the worst of his work. "America" is classic Lenny-Bruce-type observation, funny and with many a social point thrown in. "Howl" is of course here, a poem everyone should read for its force and humor and rolling jeremiad lines on the beat and beat-down of the human soul. My favorite is "Kaddish", however. Poignant like none other.
Though I did not read it all I read lots of day-to-day rambles, with occasional brightness. I guess that should be expected from a entire collection of one poet's work. I simply like more carefully self-edited and thought-restricted poetry rather than free verse/free association types. The mind throws out much incoherent, and I believe insignificant, noise that is not always fit for the page.
I read this book off an on whenever I get the urge and need to learn more about the world. I'm not sure why I love it so much, but it's there upon my shelf. Normally I don't buy collections because I like to own smaller books (and I do mean normal size, not tiny easy to read books), but for this book, I needed for a class that I took.
There's a lot of crap that pads out Ginsberg's oeuvre but the crap gives a human trajectory to the man, and as Peter Golub says, don't think of poetry like a capitalist; poetry doesn't have to do anything. Otherwise, it's nice to have America, Howl, Kaddish -- the 3 masterpieces -- in one volume.And the 2nd rate poems are nice.
Although Ginsberg is best known for his strong criticism on American and Western society, I like the sense of holiness he gives to us humans. The 'Sulflower Sutra' and 'Footnote to Howl' are some of his best pieces in my opinion.
Probably the most important american poet of the second half of the last century.Howl&Kaddish(with my special affection for Message and Aunt Rose)Plutonian Ode, Fall of America, Cosmopolitan Greetings(read Personal Ad and Mayday)will stay forever in our heart and mind
The poems of Allen Ginsberg are electric and I don't refer only to his two most famous works: "Howl" and "Kaddish." Other pieces, like "Wichita Vortex Sutra" and "Hadda Be Playing on the Jukebox" are just as great. Ginsberg was not just a great Beat poet but a great American poet.
I carried this heavy book in my backpack all through my teenage years. My copy of this book is so tattered and ragged. It's pages are filled with doodles and the bad poems written by a 15 year-old Rachel.
I wish I could give this 10 stars. This has been my "go to" book for poetic enjoyment since my teen years. Side note: I am fortunate to now have an autographed copy as my ex-husband met him when he visited Loyola.
