https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1951435.The_Door_Between
The Door Between is one of the more outstanding Ellery Queen mysteries.When a famed novelist (who is soon to be married) was found dead in her traditional-Japanese-art-inspired household, her fiancé's daughter became the prime suspect since the young woman had been in the room next to the crime scene and no one else but her could get into the victim's room without anyone noticing.
Ellery Queen, the famous crime novelist (and quite conveniently, son of the police officer who led the investigation), must step in to clean the young woman's name.
I've heard so much about Ellery Queen but had never read an EQ book ... what a sexist, racists load of crap, with petty, small-minded, mean-spirited, idiotic characters, and a totally unbelievable plot. I kept on reading to see if it was going to be consistently bad from beginning to end. It was. So bad it was worth reading as a comedy. Oh, it was awful, awful, awful. Any EQ fans out there? Are they all incredibly bad books?
I'm giving the plot of this book a 3-star rating.
However, there were some problems with this book that I had to make an effort to overcome.I had to keep in mind that this book was written in 1936, when socially acceptable standards were different.
However I did cringe frequently when the ugly and derogatory words were used towards people of various ethnicity and women.
So, this book serves as a historical snapshot about how such treatment and derogatory language was commonplace.Meanwhile, the plot had a very interesting twist at the end.
I like it when the detective can catch me unexpectedly.
If you can stomach the offensive language, it is a nice detective story.
Will either of them discover what really happened in Karen Leith's bedroom?The Door Between is an enjoyable mystery, veering a bit into the outlandish with some of the revelations about the characters (routine for daytime soaps, but a bit out of place for Ellery Queen).
The strength and likeability of the characters carry the story over all of that, though, and the ending is satisfying if again somewhat fantastic.
It will puzzle you as you read the story until you get to the end, and realize that the summary reaches much too far into the saga!
This is my first book by Ellery Queen. Although I liked the story, I needed time to adapt to the writing style. Despite all this is a good plot, which once solved hides another one that is not expected at all. I will read the other four books of this author that I have in my possession but not more.
The really enjoyed the story. It gripped me by not being pedantic. However, it did have some amazingly racist tendencies.
This was a good mystery, with a locked-room twist (not really locked, but with a witness who saw that nobody went in or out). I found it a bit noir in style. Once Ellery seems to solve the mystery, hang on - he's not quite done yet! There's still another final twist.
I have an old copy of this book--1941 over 71 years old. The pages were so old that when I turned a page, some of it just kinda flaked off.But the mystery was very good...I did not know until the end who did the dastardly deed for sure.Ellery Queen did a great job of keeping you on your toes!
read some time in 1992
great Ellery Queen story
( A Porta do Meio )
Well thought out murder story
