https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2199.Team_of_Rivals
Abe's dead and I'm a wreck.In this book Goodwin puts Abraham Lincoln in the context of his peers, many of whom ran against him for the first Republican nomination for president (remember they'd just invented that party) and one of whom, Stanton, had treated him with outright contempt in a law case years before.
You close this book knowing not just about these people, you actually feel like you know them, especially Abe.Impossible, after reading this book, not to wonder what our nation would look like had Lincoln survived his second term.
The book starts with the Republican National Convention of 1860, where Lincoln faced off with Chase, Bates, and Seward (the favorite).
After giving us a quadruple bio of Lincoln, Seward, Chase and Bates, the rivals for the nomination, Goodwin takes us through the Civil War. Her focus is not on the ins-and-outs of the various battles, which have been well covered in several million books; rather, she views everything through the prism of Lincoln's cabinet.
The book's title and its focus is its thesis: that Lincoln's "team of rivals," his disparate cabinet, was a good thing.
(Please forgive me resorting to a tired trick and leading off with a definition from the dictionary, but there is a point to it.)pol-i-ti-cian1: a person experienced in the art or science of government; especially : one actively engaged in conducting the business of a government2A : a person engaged in party politics as a profession2B: a person primarily interested in political office for selfish or other narrow usually short-sighted reasonsAmericans these days seem to think that 2B is the only definition for the word, and even the first meaning is considered an insult because if you actually know how the government works, then you’re guilty by association.
While unsure of his own faith, Lincoln, through his own care for others, was so much more of a Christ-like person than the overtly pious self-righteous Salmon Chase (Lincoln's former rival and Secretary of the Treasury who, while disparaging of others characters, allowed himself to be uncritical of his own unethical actions [much like our current president - in my opinion]).
One thing that impressed me is how she personally gave service to soldiers while not allowing any of her kind actions to be made known to the Washington social elite.
After Lincoln offered him the Secretary of State post, Seward figured on seizing power by essentially running his own government within the cabinet only to discover Lincoln’s skill at bringing different factions together.
Aside from the fact that he is probably the most analyzed and lionized figure in American history, it looks like I have a personal connection as well.
I lack the power and initiative to unshackle an oppressed segment of society, but then I don’t feel any compulsion to invade Iraq either.So please understand I’m not obsessed by my connections, but today of all days, after reviewing this wonderful book, I feel enough of a kinship to quote my famous cousins.
According to Oxford Dictionary: Team=Two or more people working together and Rival=A person or thing competing with another for the same objective or for superiority in the same field of activity.So this oxymoron title caught my attention when I was in the final semester of my college. I bought this book out of whim with slight consideration what is written inside because I am one of those people who are crazy in love with Great Honest Abe.Having said that let me come to the commentary on the
A western backwoodsman and rail splitter and prairie lawyer who seemed to enjoy his country side stories more than intricacies of the politics of capital was abruptly convinced and nominated as candidate for presidency; at that time the ambitions of then to-be president Seward were destroyed when he came to know that an obscure Prairie Layers has been nominated as the candidate for presidency by newly formed republican party instead of him(most likely).Also another ambitious man Salmon chase could not find support to be candidate from his own state Ohio which if am not mistaken is considered the state which decides president for every election.When Lincoln assumed presidency country plunged into war with seceding southern Confederacy, this entire book is dedicated to the saga of managing country during the testing times some historians think that Lincoln was the god sent man for American union I also hold the opinion as in my view there was no any man as astute in running the affairs as Lincoln and as magnanimous as him to allow his crucial cabinet position to his bitter rivals like, Chase and Stanton.
Put aside whatever you're reading now--yes, even those compelling vampire/romance books--and pick up this book. It's that good. Even though Goodwin is writing about Lincoln's cabinet, her work is eerily contemporary, given Obama's situation. Everyone but a handful of people thought Lincoln had risen too fast and was too untried to take charge of a desperate crises facing the country. Goodwin uses the main characters' diaries, letters, journals, and speeches to show how that opinion gradually changed. If Obama has half of Lincoln's greatness of heart, we are in good hands.
B. Carpenter, The Inner Life of Abraham Lincoln: Six Months at the White House (1869).Truly, I didn't start out reading this book to compare President Donald J.
Trump writing such a letter or, Lord help us, "tweet," acknowledging fault, no matter the circumstances ?Ever?!Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln is an absolutely outstanding and incisive biographical narrative showing Lincoln's road to becoming U.S. President and his Presidency as well as the lives of the most significant among his cabinet members, three of whom ran against him in 1860: William Seward, Secretary of State; Edward Bates, Attorney General; and, Salmon P.
This is the book that the film “Lincoln” is somewhat based on. President Obama has said that he looks to Lincoln as a model leader. He should. In TEAM OF RIVALS Lincoln brings genius to the adage “friends close, enemies closer.”
Yesssss! I did it y'all! This is an accomplishment. This book is dense but incredible and worth it. If you set one goal for yourself, in your life, it should be to read this book. The writing, Lincoln's life, the goings on of the cabinet and the country ... wow, wow, wow. Full review to come...stay tuned! ☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆☆
Still we're told an entertaining tale about the backgrounds, rivalries and capers that led to Lincoln clinching the candidacy and then going on to win the presidency.The story that we are then told of Lincoln eventually asserting his authority over his one time political rivalries is ok, but could have been extended to look at his dealing with his generals.
Certainly a similar book could be written about most political administrations, but the concept of seeing Lincoln's first administration as a team of rivals is still interesting, although underdeveloped.
Chase, a former U.S. Senator and former governor of Ohio who had played a significant role in founding the party; and Abraham Lincoln, until very recently a little-known lawyer from Illinois who had served one term in the U.S. House of Representatives in the late 1840s.As the convention neared, Seward was the presumptive favorite and considered himself the best of the possible candidates while Chase assumed that the convention owed him the nomination because of his early service to the party.
Doris Kearns Goodwin does a magnificent job of detailing how Abraham Lincoln, a lesser known and ill-positioned candidate captures the Republican party's nomination, goes on to get elected President, and leads America through the tumult of the Civil War.While most of us know Lincoln as "honest Abe" and the President who emancipated slaves, Kearns-Goodwin offers a portrait of a man who took many of the men who'd he'd beaten out as the republican nominee into his Presidential Cabinet.
As the Civil War is being prosecuted, readers get to see how strategic Lincoln’s use of man's personal ambitions and commitments to country made them effective members of the Cabinet.
Hiring people who are smarter than you, and giving them credit when things go right, is very hard to do.
One thing that surprised me was how lax access to the white house and president were back then.
You could literally just walk into the White House and get in line to see the President.
He spent a lot of time trying to understand the people of different states, and putting himself in their shoes and imagining how they felt given what they knew about the situation.
A tough, tough thing to do as his whole presidency was during a civil war during which over 600,000 soldiers died.
Until we are willing to look at the whole truth of our past and ongoing history, until it too is included in tomes about our Civil War, until it is fully acknowledged when somebody writes about spending “blood and treasure” to create new American settlements, we are doomed to repeat it by demonizing, ignoring, and/or erasing “inconvenient populations.”That said, Team of Rivals stunningly makes you appreciate our country and our history, makes the past come alive and feel quite present, makes you cry with joy at the passage of the antislavery Thirteen Amendment and sob at Lincoln’s death.
This book pulls back the curtain and humanizes Lincoln, brining him to life through the wide array of lives closest to him, providing a fresh view of his vivid personality, strength of character, and unflagging belief in his country.Lincoln was a master statesman, handling and maneuvering men remotely as pieces upon a chessboard.
It was history that gave him with the opportunity to manifest his greatness, providing the stage that allowed him to shape and transform our national life.”Favorite Quotes:“As he had done so many times before, Lincoln withstood the storm of defeat by replacing anguish over an unchangeable past with hope in an uncharted future.” "'Washington was a typical American.
My god, by the time you get to the cake, you've starved yourself and three subsequent generations.A good editor would have sliced at least 200 pages and given more substance to the importance of this team of rivals.
Herein, it made me forget what/who the book was about, almost.After sifting through the mound (sorry, can't seem to get that cake imagery out of my head) of froth and frivolity, the book is excellent and I appreciated learning a few things about Lincoln that made clear his exceptional contribution to the building of the United States of America.
DKG is a genius. No other words needed.
The better part of the book takes place leading up to Lincoln's 1860 election to his death in 1865.It's a fascinating, fabulous look at the politics behind the man.
The focus of the book, that Lincoln chose to surround himself with opposing personal advisers in Washington and Generals on the battlefield, not only shows his self-assured character to deal with warring factions but also shows his wont and need to ponder all sides of an argument before reaching a decision.
Hay and Nicolay were Lincoln's personal secretaries/assistants who slept in the White House, and were quite intimate with Lincoln.
I've always thought Abraham Lincoln was the greatest president in U.S. history, and now, after reading Team of Rivals, I'm convinced of that.
While it’s true that Lincoln is not the unapologetic abolitionist many think he was, his genius is in knowing how to keep the many factions in his party and in the Union on his side during the crisis of secession and the resulting Civil War. Ultimately, it’s a heartbreaking story, but it makes me appreciate more than ever our 16th President and how he preserved the union and our very frail democracy.
Reading this book (or listening on Audible in my case) is a labor of love - it is detailed, intricate and long. But wow, is it incredible. The way DKG weaves together the stories of a ll Lincoln's cabinet members personally and politically and explains their respective roles in American history is astounding. I've never learned so much American history from a single book and enjoyed it along the way. I have also never respected Abraham Lincoln as much as I do after reading this. He truly was an incredible leader.
I will now read "They Have Killed Papa Dead!": The Road to Ford's Theatre, Abraham Lincoln's Murder, and the Rage for VengeanceI think the book IS good.
In that we learn about Lincoln through what others have said of him, often via direct quotes, much of the book is told rather than experienced.
You DO clearly come to understand HOW Lincoln succeeded in winning the Republican nomination in 1860.
One complaint that I have is that we are told over and over that Lincoln has a sense of humor and loves telling stories.
5 Stars. This is well researched. I hope to do a review before this year ends.
I have read other books about Lincoln and other books about the civil war, but to see Lincoln through the eyes of his political rivals for the Presidency - Edward Bates, William Henry Seward, and Salmon Chase - was novel and inciteful.
To begin with, each of these men saw themselves as superior to Abraham Lincoln.
Added to these men were others such a Secretary of War Edwin Stanton who also had been somewhat of a rival in court and looked down upon Abraham Lincoln.
I'm glad God sends great men at such a time as that.
Where other biographers highlight these debates as the crucial pivot-point in Lincoln’s political progression, Goodwin provides a less enthralling account and seems to underemphasize their significance somewhat.However, after introducing each of the four main characters, Goodwin’s story begins to shine with Lincoln’s election as president.
And while Goodwin provides few of her own reflections on Lincoln’s legacy, she leaves the reader with a fascinating glimpse into the lives of each of the book’s major characters following his death.Overall, Doris Kearns Goodwin’s “Team of Rivals” is an interesting and thoughtful exploration of Lincoln’s life with a slightly different focus than is offered by most biographies.
But I could never find any.For anyone like me, anyone who wishes they could have figured out the complexities of the great struggle for America's soul, anyone who seeks advice from the past to inform their lives for today and tomorrow there is Team of Rivals.Kearns Goodwin has created a compelling and comprehensive portrayal of the men who led America through the crucible of the Civil War, she turns the president from the static caricature of "Honest Abe" with the stove pipe hat and chinstrap beard into a dynamic and endearing hero.
In Team of Rivals, Doris Kearns Goodwin answers that question with a resounding yes.
She explores this theme by looking at Lincoln through the eyes of his three greatest political rivals(and later cabinet members) William Seward, Salmon Chase, and Edward Bates.
The rest of the book focuses on the way in which Lincoln managed the Civil War, and the way in which various cabinet members influenced policy, and helped shape his evolving view of slavery.
Lincoln was also a master at massaging his team's ego's when political in-fighting threatened to break the cabinet apart.
Team of Rivals is in large part Doris Kearns Goodwin’s attempt to illustrate just exactly how it was that he navigated those treacherous waters: gaining the presidency, winning the loyalty of the newly formed Republican party and love of the people despite his lack of education and political clout, bringing the country through the Civil War, passing one of the most influential pieces of legislation in history, and ultimately, ending with his assassination, and the Abraham Lincoln-shaped hole left in the world.I say it is also simple because if DKG is to be believed (and I do believe her), Lincoln accomplished these things the same way he did everything in his life: by being a kindhearted, rational man with a good head for common sense on his shoulders, and a willingness to really listen and understand both his rivals and his allies.
It took Doris Kearns Goodwin ten years to write the book, and no wonder.
Yet, the book is more than organized - the author has stirringly crafted the story of Lincoln's political life - from his unusual beginning to the tragic end that I could barely bring myself to read.
.] and "'utter silence'" descends upon the room, I was held spellbound until "'there was an explosion, a storm of cheers, the like of which probably no Congress of the United States ever heard before'" (says Noah Brooks as cited by Kearns Goodwin).
Douglass writes that Lincoln "stood 'like a mountain pine high above the others [.
“Team of Rivals” is an extraordinary work that sheds light on an aspect of the Lincoln presidency that many avid historical readers probably know little or nothing about, the presidential race of 1860 and the presidency of Abraham Lincoln as seen through the lenses of his cabinet and his dealings with them.This lengthy book never feels like one, and the research and vividness with which Doris Kearns Goodwin draws these historical giants is a delight to absorb.
I am a bit of a Civil War buff, but this text created in me a whole new appreciation for the political genius of Abraham Lincoln, and rendered members of his cabinet as more than historical footnotes.
