https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/100247.Vagabonding
Vagabonding represents an uncommon outlook and attitude about life.Although Vagabonding teaches the techniques to affordably travel for extended periods of time, it more importantly introduces a way to find adventure in everyday life."Vagabonding is an attitude — a friendly interest in people, places, and things that makes a person an explorer in the truest, most vivid sense of the word.""[Vagabonding is] the ongoing practice of looking and learning, of facing fears and altering habits, of cultivating a new fascination with people and places."This mentality isn’t reserved just for long-term journeys; it can be achieved by looking at the everyday world with new, curious eyes.
I hit the road for 8 months--7 countries, 4 continents--because of this book.
I boarded the plane 5 months later.I carried it with me the whole trip (it's very light).
Being on the road for an extended period of time has a LOT of challenges.
Potts doesn't tell you what each of these challenges would be--that's impossible--but he does show you ways of thinking and doing that can help you get the most out of these challenges.This book isn't necessary for a successful trip.
People learn on their feet all the time, and what better way to learn than to jump in head first.
Rolf Potts’ Vagabonding was recommended to me by a friend who apparently thinks I:a) Need to get out of the house (and the city/state/country)b) Enjoy books that heavily rely on quoting Walt Whitman’s “Song of the Open Road”It’s not a bad book, certainly not the type I would pick up on my own, but there’s nothing really life-changing here either. Potts is conversational (almost to a fault), and he makes some fine points about living with less and accepting circumstances on the road for what they
Potts is conversational (almost to a fault), and he makes some fine points about living with less and accepting circumstances on the road for what they are: experience.
I don’t doubt my knee-jerk reaction has much to do with my un-travelled life, but I think I would still feel he’s propping himself up even if I were a fellow globetrotter.
In Potts’ defense, he makes fine points about the commoditization of travel, such as “extreme” sports or the dubious desire of the ultra-rich to visit “unspoiled” cultures.
Rolf Potts gives a ton of good resources for how to travel long-term. This is not for the person who wants to take a week vacation in Cabo, but for someone who wants to hang out in a country or two or however many for a long time -- several weeks to several years. It's inspiring and helpful to know that I'm not the only one who wants to travel this way!
Basically, it explains that you don't have to be in college or retired to experience long-distance travel.
It's a reminder for me not to get caught up in the rat race and the sequence of school, job, marriage, kids, more job, 1 week vacations at a time, retirement, and then death.
Although I take away a bit of inspiration and liberation from this book, it's actually a practical piece with tips on how to incorporate long distance travel in your life and not spend eterninty looking forward to a one-week vacation every year.
XXXIIIHow happy is the little stone That rambles in the road alone, And does n’t care about careers, And exigencies never fears; Whose coat of elemental brown A passing universe put on; And independent as the sun, Associates or glows alone, Fulfilling absolute decree In casual simplicity. -Emily Dickinson (1830–86).
Quitting--whether a job or a habit--means taking a turn so as to be sure you're still moving in the direction of your dreams.'""There are always people who dare to seek on the margin of society, who are not dependent on social routine, and prefer a kind of free-floating existence." (Thomas Merton)"There is still an overwhelming social compulsion--an insanity of consensus, if you will--to get rich from life rather than to live life richly.""Vagabonding is, was, and always will be a private undertaking--and its goal is to improve your life not in relation to your neighbors but it relation to yourself.""I refuse to spend money on haircuts."Thoreau: "Money is not required to buy one necessity of the soul."Kurt Vonnegut: "Peculiar travel suggestions are dancing lessons from God."Antonio Machado: "Paths are made by walking."Eknath Easwaran: "Excitement and depressions, fortune and misfortune, pleasure and pain are storms in a tiny, private, shell-bound realm--which we take to be the whole of existence.
Unfortunately, all that the book contains is a whole bunch of website links and references to read.
At best, this book can serve as a dictionary for one who is looking for sources of reference on how to travel on your own.
Saying things like 'speak to people who have traveled extensively for advice' or 'you must always travel safe', 'save money for travel' makes no sense whatsoever unless the target audience is a five year old.
They certainly do not warrant whole chapters.It looks like the author has randomly aggregated a bunch of blogposts, thrown in a long list of weblinks and created a book.
A few snippets from the book: Vagabonding involves taking an extended time-out from your normal life— six weeks, four months, two years— to travel the world on your own terms.
But beyond travel, vagabonding is an outlook on life.
Vagabonding is about refusing to exile travel to some other, seemingly more appropriate, time of your life.This requires a different mindset.
And the more we associate And the more we associate money with life, the more we convince ourselves that we’re too poor to buy our freedom.This book covers various ways of earning your living while traveling and provides extensive links to resources.
I have read of at least 5 labels for travelers which RP stereo typically dismisses.The book is filled to the brim with useful tips and resources but the hypocritical criticisms are wearying.
Does RP expect people to identify other travelers by these few tip offs label them as pretentious travel snobs and judge them to be "dong it wrong"?RP spends a lot of time teaching people the correct mindset as he perceives it.
However it applies to everything else too, so it is hardly vagabonding specific.The majority of the book is an attempt to cover each contingency wherein open mindedness would be useful and a description of where others have gone wrong.
Contains a lot of material I've seen reiterated before in other guidebooks; holds a lot of stuff which is well-covered elsewhere; yields a lot of info which should already be common-sense to the experienced (or even mildly-experienced) traveler...so, I confess I'm merely going to skim this thing.Listen--in my experience--if you have an opportunity to travel; just do it and don't worry all that much about pre-planning or logistics.Seriously.
Better to die somewhere out there in the wilderness, representing your country and your beliefs--better to perish exploring the world and its peoples, than sitting at home in an easy chair with your feet up.
***I keep trying to find a better book for the type of travel I plan, and haven't yet, so I re-read this one...
Originally read 1/2008***This is a pretty simple book, designed for those who have never traveled but always wanted to.
The author describes several different approaches to travel and refrains from passing judgment on any of them.
Somehow, he passes on all of this information without making the book feel like a typical travel book.
When my son graduates high school, I plan to try long-term international travel.
This book was a great jumping off point for me.
Para todos aquellos que hemos llenado nuestras vidas con viajes de largo tiempo y corto presupuesto, "Vagabonding" tal vez no será más que un compilado de consejos que con nuestra propia experiencia hemos estado construyendo a punta de errores y aciertos sin que nadie nos los haya enseñado de antemano.
Included in this work are maybe two or three genuinely handy bits of advice, mainly found in links to external readings and resources.
Topics of the book include "Keep It Simple", "Keep It Real", "Meet Your Neighbors" and "Be Creative".
In between telling you how awesome it is to be doing the things he's not actually telling you how to do, Potts will throw in a couple pages per chapter of links to real resources with actual information - pretty much the sole helpful advice in the entire book.
Why I Read this Book: Travel and exploration is an essential part of the development of a successful and fulfilled life.
Some of his stories are extreme and have you reading in disbelief whereas just as many make you realize the simplicities in life that we so often let pass us by.Travel is not something that should be reserved for one or two weeks out of the year where you blow through 10 attractions in just as many days.
Why not just save the travel time and stay home?Part of what’s so inspiring about this book is the way Rolf explains the incredible possibilities that exist for long-term travel regardless of our economic situation.
I'm not bashing this book by any means, I'm just saying due to my own experience, I've already figured out most of what Potts wrote.However, I would say Mr. Rolf's book is great for people who don't have a knack for overseas travel or just travel in general.
Potts provides probably over 50 different resources to help prepare yourself for long term travel.
There are sections in the book about being a senior traveler, a female solo traveler, getting over the language gap somewhere, what to take with you on a long term trip and so on.
The book is also full of little comments from other every-day travelers and common sense tips to help a newbie feel comfortable.
If you have already gone on open-ended adventures into the world, the first two-thirds (or more) of this book are a bore. Not until I got to the end did I start to enjoy and appreciate it. If you haven't had the opportunity to travel freely then this is a well-grounded book full of lots of great advice. Highlights (for anyone) include; good quotes, interesting excerpts from other travel writers, and tons and tons of resources, links, and other channels for research and planning.
This book was phennomal, it is one of the best books Ive read in a while!
It inspired me to travel the world more and not be so worried about life and money.
It made me realize that if one of your passions is traveling, than just start taveling.
All you need is a backpack to travel!
It gave some really great tips on travleing!
One of my hobbies is traveling so I really enjoyed this book!
This book was really well written and included some great inforamtion!
I recommand this book to who ever likes to travel!
Have an itch to quit your job pack a bag and wander the planet for a few years? This handy guide will make that itch that much worse. I miss traveling.
I would recommend this to everyone who has the travel-virus, its mostly about how to manage and enjoy long term travel, but it also delivers great values how to come by with less, don't hold on physical items, seek for experiences.
Primarily, this book was a revelation that other people out there view travel as intrinsically valuable to one's life education and spiritual growth, as I do.
Highly recommend!Potts also includes a ton of awesome quotes from authors who have in turn inspired him, but here are a couple of his originals:"Vagabonding is not about merely realotting a portion of your life for travel but rediscovering the entire concept of time.""Vagabonding is like a pilgrimage without a specific destination or goal -- not a quest for answers so much as a celebration of the questions, an embrace of the ambiguous, and an openness to anything that comes your way.
You’ll also miss the chance to learn from people who don’t share your worldview., travel is not a social contest, and vagabonding has never represented a caste on the tourist/traveller hierarchy.Knowing your science - not your politics - is what will best inform your decisions as you tread lightly through the worldIf travel truly is in the journey and not the destination, if travel really is an attitude of awareness and openness to new things, then any moment can be considered travel.
Although I do admire Rolf Potts, I think that the advice written in this book is less practical information and more spiritual inspiration.
Most of what he writes are things to motivate the reader, to show that a vagabonding lifestyle is desirable and possible.Unfortunately, Rolf Potts gives very little specific, actionable advice.
At one point Potts rights about the balance and the difference between researching a location before going, as opposed to being open to the new experiences and the feeling of wonder while traveling.At some points Potts is a bit ethnocentric, assuming that people all over the world from various different cultures will all welcome a stranger with open arms.
But I think there is something in here for the non-vagabond as well.Rolf explores the questions of how to liberate yourself to live the life you want, how to appreciate where you are when you're there, how to deal with loneliness, how to make friends in strange places, the virtues and limits of companionship and the broken paradigm of "travel" as escape.
And if you've never lived this life, it may be hard to appreciate the discussion of both its virtues and its challenges.
He has explored many places and many options and lists a good number of resources to use as you travel.
"Adventurous men enjoy shipwrecks, mutinies, earthquakes, conflagrations, and all kinds of unpleasant experiences," wrote Bertrand Russell.
"They say to themselves, for example, 'So this is what an earthquake is like,' and it gives them pleasure to have their knowledge of the world increased by this new item."His advice on drugs is also sound.
Because it doesn't force you to work for a feeling, it creates passive experiences that are only vaguely connected to the rest of your life.
First off one third to half of it is internet sites that you could find yourself if you have a pulse and the other bit is constant quotes from other notable writers that I guess is supposed to set the mindset for the potential vagabond.I've done a bit of traveling myself, I left my native country for another completely different culture a dozen years ago and I’m a professional guide in Israel.I remember when a college student would be adventurous to backpack Europe for the summer and then came the “gap” year, it was so necessary, so liberating and then that wasn’t enough enter the’ Vagabum’ as I call them.
It gave me lots of concrete ideas for my traveling – even though many parts of the text can feel familiar for a traveler with some experience who has already read some other travel guides and searched information online.I'd recommend this book for anyone who's planning long trips abroad, but I only gave it three stars.
First of all, the book is very short and if you'd skip all the (somewhat dated) website links and ignore the numerous quotes and biographies and travel experiences from different vagabonders, you can read "the actual information" in less than an hour.
Indeed regardless of whether your sympathies lean to the left or the right, you're not going to learn anything new if continue to use politics as a lens thru which to view the world....on the road political convictions are a set experiential blinders, compelling you to seek evidence for conclusions you've already drawn.
You'll also miss the chance to learn from people who don't share your world view...
In this way open mindedness is a process of hearing and considering, of muting your compulsion of judging what's right and wrong, good and bad, proper and improper, and having the tolerance and patience for trying to see things for what they are."
Everything in this book is old news to anyone who has already undertaken "long-term world travel." However, its basic premise is sound, and it would serve as a good wake-up call for those who have previously limited their travel experiences to the safety, comfort, and ease of--for lack of a better word, tourism, or rather the petty-bourgeois approach to travel.
Probably the best thing about it was Potts's inclusion of a plethora of quotations from more original writers on travel--I managed to add a few books to my to-read list based on his recommendations.The verdict?
The reason this book has received a number of bad reviews is because people fail to understand this is a philosophy book on travel.
To be fair, it's not like the cover really makes that clear.The other reason this book has received several bad reviews is because many people sincerely want to travel, but they have it fixed in their mind that they are unable to do so.
I know these people exist, because I used to be one of them.As a philosophical entry, Rolf Potts work is unparalleled.
Rolf Potts turns out to be an incredible reader of his own work.
