https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1105471.The_Terrorists
Beck, as head of the Crime section of Stockholm's police is involved in the first two, and is later assigned as coordinator for security measures surrounding the visit of a powerful American senator to Sweden.
Given the absence of old time friend Kollberg, Beck has to rely to a greater degree on Gunvald Larsson, despite their mutual dislike.The trend of blaming the system and the incompetent of ill-intended oligarchy was started several books back in the series, but it reaches its peak here, as the role are reversed and the criminals are cast in a positive light and their actions are seen as justified rebellion in the face of gross injustice.

Sjöwall and Wahlöö were lovers.
And they wrote books together.
Wahlöö developed cancer and died in 1975, in Malmö, at the age of 48.
Sjöwall has said that this volume was written almost entirely by Wahlöö, as he was dying -- in a race to the finish line.
Moreover, by the end, one has come to know a series of very interesting characters.
The books have interesting plots, and the plots are character driven in a way that most crime novels are not.
Written in 1975 by Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö, The Terrorists A Martin Beck Police Mystery is about us right now.It is about the homegrown terrorists we make through our capitalist greed, our ever increasing inequality, our casting aside of those who don't fit into our neat ideas of a "normal" society.
Leonard Kollberg and Martin Beck, Gunn Kollberg and Rhea Olsson manage to keep some of that humanity.
I think Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö wished a portion of it upon us all.
I have not read from this classic series from the 70’s that pioneers what we now call Nordic Noir.
A crazy impulse led me to check out the library audiobook version of this last one of the series of ten.
He has to work around a lot of political drones and ambitious idiots in the various sectors of the police and state security forces.
He is not a true noir hero with a lot of baggage in personal demons and jaded outlook.
I can now be comfortable going back to the beginning of the series to see how Beck develops in his personality and talents.
The intended sense of despair and despondency of society going straight to hell that slowly grows from Roseanna through ten books in ten years until this point where people have finally decided to make a stand against the leaders who have brought this upon us was starting to make me feel like not bothering.As Sjowall was dying of cancer during the writing of this entry the plot takes an even more melancholy tone, the idealism of the political protesters that regularly appear as background characters in this series becomes almost as much misguided aggression as that of the constantly condemned police force.
My only problem was this nit-picky thing: in the Vintage/Black Lizard edition of Cop Killer, Martin Beck's friend and fellow detective inspector had the last name of "Allwright," where in The Terrorists, his name was changed to "Content." I know exactly what happened and that each translator does things differently to try to fully convey the nuances of a language, but at the same time, it should be more consistent in a series of editions.
La stazione di metropolitana di Midsommarkransen con un bellissimo mosaico che ne riproduceva l'appellativo, attigua a Vattenledningsvagen e da cui ogni giorno mi muovevo, Sergels Torg, il Pendeltag - anche se allora non si chiamava così, il sole che d'estate sorge alle tre del mattino e l'imbrunire verso le due del pomeriggio, case e ville costruite sulle tante isolette dell'acrcipelago stoccolmese: un libro su una città che amo per se stessa e per i tanti ricordi che vi sono legati.Molto diverso il quadro che ne viene tracciato rispetto a ciò che ho visto e vissuto.
L'arte del rutto e della flatulenza coltivate in massimo grado.
E' stato scritto agni inizi degli anni Settanta del secolo scorso e questo credo abbia inciso parecchio.Molta satira politica, forse troppa, che rende l'opera un po' datata e talvolta indigesta, ciò nonostante i personaggi siano interessanti.
Set in 1975, the primary plot follows the assassinations of high-profile political leaders around the world by an impenetrable organization of highly trained killers.
Martin Beck reluctantly accepts the job of managing an inter-agency group to protect a visiting U.S. warmonging senator.
There are two other plots, all of which are well orchestrated: a wealthy pornographer has been murdered in his mistresses' apartment and a young homeless, somewhat addled waif of a girl has been charged with bank robbery, trying to protect her young baby.
Good policework by Beck and his team, especially in trapping the assassination squad, is the hallmark of this finale to a 10-book series.
Superb and a fitting ending the the Wahloo/Sjowall series of Martin Beck novels. Published after Wahloo's death from cancer in 1975 -- this novel is sharper than the earlier ones in its critique of Swedish society. It also templates the 1986 assassination of the Swedish prime minister Olof Palme. That may be ironic -- but then that future conjuncture fostered Mankell's Wallander into existence.Swedish crime fiction rocks!Of all the crime fiction I've read these ten by Wahloo/Sjowall are the the closest to perfectly composed and pitched.Gems every one of them.
This is the final story in the Martin Beck series and it doesn't disappoint.
I'm not an habitual reader of police procedurals, and discovered these stories completely by chance.
The series remains good from first to last and doesn't run out of any of its energy.
Its interesting cast of disparate characters avoids cliche and develops in a satisfying way, with each book providing a highly enjoyable reading experience.
Naturally, I liked some of the stories more than others, but all ten are consistently good.
The whole series gets a resounding five stars from this very satisfied reader.
O tema principal é o terrorismo, tal como o título indica, mas a história vai muito além disso, sendo as personagens e as suas ideias o mais importante.O enredo divide-se em três partes distintas.Primeira parte: uma jovem mulher é acusada de roubar um banco e Martin Beck é chamado como testemunha de defesa no seu julgamento.Segunda parte: um homem é assassinado e o responsável caminha calmamente, para longe do lugar do crime, à luz do sol da manhã, deixando para trás a arma do crime.Terceira parte: um importante senador americano visita Estocolmo e a força policial toma medidas de segurança especiais.
Martin Beck é escolhido para liderar a equipa principal responsável.Ao longo dos dez livros, Maj Söjwall e Per Wahlöö fazem uma critica à Suécia, através de uma caracterização minuciosa da força policial.
The last one...Sat DramaThis could be the best of them all, and sadly, the end. Just goes to prove that a series needn't deteriorate into dross. *looks pointedly at Cornwell's Scarpetta*3* Roseanna (Martin Beck #1)3* The Man Who Went Up in Smoke (Martin Beck #2)3* The Man on the Balcony (Martin Beck, #3)3* The Laughing Policeman (Martin Beck #4)3* The Fire Engine That Disappeared (Martin Beck #5)#6 MISSING! Oh Noes!!3* The Abominable Man (Martin Beck #7)3* The Locked Room (Martin Beck #8)2* Cop Killer (Martin Beck #9) 4* The Terrorists
I know that many hold the final book of the Sjöwall/Wahlöö 'Beck'-series in the highest regard, but for me, the book was (in light of the preceding 9(!)) a bit of an anti-climax.
No, I don't think that Maj Sjöwall writing a much larger part of this due to the illness and subsequent demise of her life- and author-partner Per was the reason for the book dropping a notch.
I do think that Per's illness did.
Please note that nothing about the final offering does not shame the series at all, but, alas, it does not crown the achievement either.
The Terrorists (1975) by Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö is the last book to feature Martin Beck who has been promoted to Chief of the National Murder Squad--much to his chagrin since the new post will entail a great deal of desk work and far less time in the field.
But split-second timing will be needed for them to take the last two alive without having an entire apartment building blown up--with them in it.The strength of this final entry is in the characters and the way Sjöwall and Wahlöö portray their interactions and relationships to one another.
Thoroughly enjoyable, satisfying. I’m sorry it’s the last one.
"The Terrorists" is the final book in Sjowall and Wahloo's Martin Beck series.
The book begins with Det. Larsson in South America, observing preparations for a similar state visit- it goes horribly awry and the head of visiting Prime Minister ends up in his lap, separated from its body by a large explosion.Events move very quickly: Beck solves the murder of the pornographer- it turns out he had seduced his gardener's daughter into a life of drugs and dissolution, and in revenge, the gardener had murdered him.
A fitting end to the excellent Martin Beck series, The Terrorists perfectly blends human-scale story-telling, suspense and action, and social commentary.Gunvald Larsson, for whom readers now have a measure of respect and sympathy, takes centre stage as he travels overseas to learn about security measures to help Sweden prepare for a state visit by a controversial US Senator.
I particularly liked the way that characters who have been, at best, distrustful of one another in the past – particularly Beck, the plodding Einar Rönn, and Gunvald Larsson – have come to a measure of appreciation and understanding of one another over the long haul of police-work together.There's a warm melancholy in the novel's final companionable meal between old friends as Lennart Kollberg reflects that Martin Beck has "the wrong job.
Si ironizza molto, si ideologizza assai - al punto che se non si conosce bene la Svezia (io: unico romagnolo assieme al parroco di San Pietro in Vincoli e ad un vegetariano ciclista astemio di Mondaino, a non aver mai avuto una relazione con una svedese) non si riesce a capire se certi personaggi siano boutade viventi o plausibili.
Did Sjowall and Wahloo foresee the role terrorism would play in today's world?
Or did they just recognise that terrorism would overshadow other crimes and would become increasingly important as a threat to modern society?The novel begins as Martin Beck is called as a witness for the legal defence of Rebecka Lund, an 18 year old single mother charged with robbing a bank.
All of these are somehow tied to the preparations for a state visit by an unpopular US senator to Stockholm.
Martin Beck is put in charge and must prevent harm to the senator from the unseen terrorists of Heydt and Kaitan and Kamakazi.
I read all 10 books in this wonderful series, one after the other.
What a joy to read.
A police procedural set in 1960's Sweden, this has become the basis of modern police fiction.
Martin Beck is not your typical 'cop'.
The detective mysteries he's engaged in are varied and interesting - and (gasp) are not always solved with Beck in the lead -a real tribute to teamwork and the well-defined characters who are his colleagues.
Only 10 books in the series, and by the time its all read, one wishes there could have been many more.
Very good final entry in the Martin Beck series. I wish there were a few more of these to read!

My last of Martin Beck, for now (I haven't read the number 2 from the series yet cause I don't have that book).
I was wondering why they had this Rebecka and Petrus cases firstly but then it all makes sense throughout the middle, the connection and the heart-rending truth.
I think this book focusing much on Beck and Rhea and their stories sometimes sort of 'shadowing' my reading momentum about the cases and the crime problem.
Not that I dislike Rhea-- she was such a great companion to Beck and she helped a lot too.
I love how they handled both Rebecka and Petrus cases.
I gave up on my library getting the audiobook of this last in the Martin Beck series (they have all the rest, which I listened to this winter and spring) and bought it myself.
It's the most political of the series, and interesting to read now when North Americans tend to view Sweden as an egalitarian socialist paradise (or I guess a socialist hellscape, depending on your politics).
The Terrorists of the title could be the international organization carrying out political assassinations, or perhaps it's the newly-nationalized Swedish police, who according to one character are terrorizing socialists and people who can't make it in Sweden's class society.
According to which Sweden, state and society, should have reached rock bottom ages ago.The terrorists, here to kill a really reactionary American senator (ring any bells?) for rather obscure reasons, are some ice-cold types, perfectly trained, but without any political background.
I was a child in those days, early to mid-seventies, but I don't think that's quite what terrorists stood for.So what do I like about this?
A great read altogether, all 10 volumes.
I must have read them 4 times now, and I can imagine rereading them again in some years' time.
Wow. A wonderful book, the last of ten books by Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo.
My list of things to do today has lain untouched on the kitchen table, as has the washing-up from breakfast AND lunch - I just had to know how the plot unfolded.
I found I deeply cared about these Swedish policeman and assorted other characters, and also that I was very affected by the authors' anger about society and capitalism.I know this is often said, but if you haven't read any of the Martin Beck novels, you are in for a treat.
Though I will be re-reading all of them.
Mycket intressant serie. Att följa Sverige och utvecklingen eller snarare avsaknaden av utveckling. Visa saker går framåt men det mesta är ungefär samma. Mycket läsvärda. Glad att jag inte sett ngn film eller serie innan jag lyssnade på böckerna.
Forsyth) con la que tiene muchos paralelismos, la diferencia está en que los personajes de Sjowall-Wahloo son de carne y hueso, perfectamente reconocibles, antihéroes abrumados por las contradicciones entre su vida y su trabajo, en una sociedad despiadada y enloquecida, donde nadie dice la verdad fuera del ámbito privado y criminales que son unos pobres inadaptados dentro de esta sociedad.
La serie Martin Beck es obligada lectura para los amantes del género, es precursora de otras novelas, todo un hallazgo para el lector porque demuestra que ya en los años 60 se escribía muy bien y desde entonces algunos no han hecho más que repetir sus tramas.

