https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39507318-the-library-book
4.5 stars Hundreds of thousands of books were burned to nothing but ash and hundreds of thousands of books were damaged - enough to bring chills up the spine of any book lover reading this book about the fire at the Los Angeles Public Library that occurred on April 29, 1986.
It’s the story of the volunteers who after the fire “worked for the next three days around the clock.....They formed a human chain, passing the books hand over hand from one person to the next, through the smoky building and out the door.
This is absolutely brilliant nonfiction - and a book about books - about libraries! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ In April 1986, there was a large fire in the Los Angeles Public Library; so large, in fact, that over four hundred thousand books were burned completely and seven hundred thousand more were damaged. Initially, the thoughts were that this was arson, yet no one has been convicted, and a mystery still surrounds the act. The Library Book accomplishes several things. First, Susan Orlean has researched the hi
⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ In April 1986, there was a large fire in the Los Angeles Public Library; so large, in fact, that over four hundred thousand books were burned completely and seven hundred thousand more were damaged.
The Library Book accomplishes several things.
First, Susan Orlean has researched the history of the LA Public Library, and believe me, it’s intriguing and page-turning.When examining the fire, Orlean presents a key player.
Susan Orlean lovingly places her endearment for books on every page of this wonder.
More than anything, it’s an ode to books and a gift to those who love them.
Susan Orlean was speaking with the Los Angeles Times about this book before its release....( I enjoyed listening to her speak on NPR as well).When talking about her interest in writing about a big city library this is what Susan said:  “I could have done that anywhere.
I wasn’t much of a reader as a kid - I remember some lovely walks I took alone or with a friend to the library as a child to listen to ‘the storytelling lady’......but reading wasn’t encouraged in my family.
(If they fall asleep, they may be turfed out.)The Los Angeles Public Library has had a particularly lively history and some unbelievably colourful people running it.
What could have been a dry history book is more like investigative journalism, with plenty of gossip and innuendo – this is Los Angeles, remember!
She even tried to burn one herself, to see what it would feel like, but she had a terrible time bringing herself to do it.“Once words and thoughts are poured into them, books are no longer just paper and ink and glue: They take on a kind of human vitality.
She also decided that she was done researching for and writing books as the time spent on them took her away from her job and family.
Carnegie designated Los Angeles as one of the 1700 sites nationwide that would receive funding for a new building for its central location as well as branch sites.
Through her impeccable research, Orlean describes the Library fire in detail while also interviewing the present and future of libraries with current Los Angeles librarians as well as writing of the entire history of the city library system.
It was such a thrill leaving a place with things you hadn’t paid for; such a thrill, anticipating the new books we would read.”Her lyrical and insightful writing about books and how alive they always are should speak to anyone who loves books, reading, and libraries.“A book feels like a thing alive in this moment, and also alive on a continuum, from the moment the thoughts about it first percolated in the writer’s mind to the moment it sprang off the printing press—a lifeline that continues as someone sits with it and marvels over it, and it continues on, time and time and time.
It feels so relaxed and calming when I am in the Library.
It feels like, I am among many learned and wise souls, who are in all these books.
These souls care for me even though we are, in some cases, hundreds of years apart… “A library is a good place to soften solitude; a place where you feel part of a conversation that has gone on for hundreds and hundreds of years even when you`re all alone.”We, Goodreads readers, are all connected by this true and purest form of love for books and their beloved sanctuary, the Library.Susan Orlean's The Library Book is a tribute to the Temples of Books, the Libraries.
This fire burned for more than seven hours and destroyed 400,000 books.
I held my Moms hand as we walked in and as so as I saw my section, I begged to let go of her hand as I nearly ran to grab new books that my parents and I would read together.
I loved seeing my Mom stack the books on the counter and then that sound.
The Library Book is such a captivating novel with a blend of mystery, history and thorough analysis of the future of libraries.Read Susan Orlean’s novel and you will have visited the mystery, geography, biography, humor, history and political sections of a library all in one book.
I don’t know; I’m sure we can come up with something that more accurately describes what they do and what they’re for (note: on that latter point, “nerd holes” is probably a bad suggestion, because I’m not entirely sure I want to know what a nerd hole is for).Up above, I called this a “mostly engaging” account; it flags at times, in part because it turns out that the primary suspect in the *spoiler alert* still unsolved fire may have just been a flighty attention seeker and the mystery surrounding the fire draws to an unsatisfying close (like a Ziploc baggie that just won’t seal right).
My Rating: 4.5 starsHave you ever come across a book that felt like it was meant for you to read and then afterwards occupies a permanent place in your heart due to the special connection you feel with it? Well, for me, Susan Orlean’s  The Library Book  was definitely THAT book (the reasons why will become more clear later on in this review). I’ve had my nose in a book ever since I learned how to read at 5 or 6 years old (though my mom likes to tell people that I might have well been born with a
I actually get really excited when I hear things (whether names or places) that I’m familiar with get mentioned in books, as it makes the reading experience that much more personal for me – in the case of this book, there were actually a few places mentioned where I have friends (or relatives) who live there currently, so it was fun to be able to talk them afterwards about the historical aspects of where they live.In recounting the story of the Central Library fire, Orlean also gives us the story of Harry Peak – the man largely viewed as responsible for starting the fire but never charged due to lack of evidence.
. if she could have chosen any profession in the world, she would have been a librarian.December 6, 2016 was one of the greatest days of my life.
But Orlean also manages to weave in the history and importance of libraries, with a look to the future with libraries becoming more community gathering place than warehouses for books.
I highly recommend this one to book lovers everywhere.It wasn't that time stopped in the library.
In the library, time is dammed up - not just stopped but saved.
But along with learning what happened that day and the investigation afterward Susan Orlean has peppered this story with all kinds of facts about reading, libraries and books all throughout the book.Now, for me I was a tad disappointed that the story took such a meandering path around the actual fire and crime.
I think this may be a book that I will pick back up and browse through at a slower pace sometime to try to soak in more of the knowledge within but at the moment I’m rating this one at 3.5 stars simply because it’s not as an engaging read as a thriller or fantasy to me but I do think non-fiction lovers will appreciate this one.I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley.For more reviews please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/
Library lovers will find this expertly delivered book enlightening.SUMMARYOn the morning of April 28, 1986, a fire alarm sounded in the Los Angeles Central Library.
It was so hot that it appeared icy.”REVIEWSusan Orlean skillfully transports us to the library stacks where we can still smell the smoke and feel the intense heat from the flames.
New York Times best-selling author SUSAN ORLEAN’s detailed research is evident in the stories about the library, it’s history and it’s past champions.
The writing was smart and all library and book lovers will find this one enlightening.
One of my favorite parts was when, as part of her research, Orlean decides to burn a book.
Susan Orlean takes this incident and turns it into an all encompassing book that reads like a novel.
I had planned to take my time reading this book, interspersing it with a novel I just began, but I couldn't do it.
"This is why I wanted to write this book, to tell about a place I love that doesn't belong to me but feels like it is mine, and how that feels marvelous and exceptional.
Recommended to anyone who loves books, libraries, people, civilization, history, philosophy, etc.
The largest library disaster in American history is the furnace at the center of Orlean’s story, which is fueled by regular additions of memoir, biography, history and science.
As a narrator, Orlean moves like fire herself, with a pyrotechnic style that smolders for a time over some ancient bibliographic tragedy, leaps to the latest technique in book restoration and then illuminates the story of a wildly eccentric librarian.
Over the holidays, every booklover in America is going to give or get this book.As she did in her 1998 bestseller, “The Orchid Thief,” Orlean brings us along as she tries to understand the mercurial figure at the center of.
The fire was devastating but serves as a springboard for this book’s story of the development of the area and city of Los Angeles, the early identification of a need for some sort of library, the early characters and personalities of library employees and directors, and development of policies over the years as the library world itself grew and society changed.Alongside the history of the library, Orleans also delves into the history of libraries in the United States and how they have both reflected and responded to major social changes.
[3.5 stars] The Library Book is chock-full of fascinating information.
Orleans focuses on the Los Angeles public library system and jumps from the 1986 library fire, to the history of L.A's libraries, to several personal stories about librarians, to a discussion about homelessness, to the future of libraries and more.
My own interest jumped around as much as the book did.
I gobbled up parts of it and skimmed some of the dryer history chapters including those about the accused arsonist (an unwanted diversion from the library theme).
I was thrilled to have won this book through the Goodreads Giveaways program.
I was particularly enchanted by this aspect of the book.Orlean reviews the changing roles libraries have held in society.
Freedom of speech is enshrined there in the books shared and the many different kinds of discussion groups and meetings held.It seems no aspect of libraries is left unattended through the lens of the history of the Los Angeles' library system, from its architecture to its use of computer technology to stay relevant in today's world.The book ends with a lovely overview of the creative ways libraries distribute books throughout the world--including not only the ordinary bookmobile but books carried by camels in Kenya, and burromobiles.
While some of my reasons for moving to libraries were good ones--the main good one being that I wanted to serve ordinary people directly--I fret that I made the switch more out of laziness: librarianship, unlike journalism, comes with no 80-hour work weeks, no being on call, no uncertain hours, no "putting myself out there" on a regular basis.
Part of me is ashamed of that retreat.I look at the lives of the people I was acquainted with back in my journalism days, and they seem much more exciting than mine.
The Library Book is a must read for every book lover.
Susan Orleans chronicles the April 28, 1986 fire at the main branch of the Los Angeles Library which destroyed over 400,000 books and damaged 700,000 more.
However, The Library Book covers so much more than just the fire including the history of libraries, the role they play in a community and what happens when no library is available, the changing function of libraries in the digital age, and the importance of books.
I highly, highly recommend this beautiful book that will resonate with any bibliophile.
(This is not a book for all my reading friends, but I know which ones would feel the same as I do.)Of particular interest to me was Orlean's descriptions of library and book burnings through history, an effective way to demoralize a conquered people.
Taking books away from a culture is to take away its past and its future is ruptured.
Taking books away from a culture is to take away its shared memory.
Destroying a culture's books is sentencing it to something worse than death; it is sentencing it to seem as if it never lived." A German poet once said," There where one burns books, one in the end burns a soul."I have always loved going to the library.
The first is a record of the devastating fire at the Los Angeles Central Library on April 29, 1986 and how the city and library service recovered.
One might assume that Book #1 is of most (or exclusive) interest to Californians, but if you’ve read other work by Orlean you’ll know that her delight in history’s oddballs (here, would-be actor and compulsive liar Harry Peak, who was arrested on suspicion of arson, and 1880s L.A. librarian Charles Lummis, who walked from Ohio to California) and offbeat stories comes through no matter what she’s writing about.
Susan Orlean first learned of the devastating fire in the Los Angeles Central Library in 1986 years after.
Library visits were an important part of her life growing up, but she was now a purchaser rather than a borrower, but once started, she knew she'd found her subject for her new book, one that would provide many avenues to explore.
The love of books was already in my DNA as part of my heritage, but it was fostered and nurtured in the various libraries I haunted growing up.
I remember when I first heard there was a place where one could borrow all the books one wanted to read.My elementary school, Philip Sheridan, was brand new and filled with recently published children's books.
I borrowed Follow My Leader, which our teacher had read to the class, a history of Australia because I had an Australian pen pal, and D'Aulaire's Book of Greek Myths.Wherever we moved, I continued to frequent libraries.
Since Orlean jumps between all these topics so often, it makes the whole narrative hard to follow, and creates a lack of focus in general.
She goes on and on with small, topical details about library history, which especially began to grate on me in the end.
I felt that the book really dragged on in the end, as I began to get sick of the lack of focus on the fire, and the endless, seemingly meaningless, details about the library, or libraries in general.
I worked at the Los Angeles Public Library's Gardner Branch as a page in the late 1970s and it remains one of the trippiest jobs I've ever had.
If anyone could write about the colorful development of the Los Angeles Public Library with verve, it's Orlean.
But toward the end the book reels out of control, badly needing an editor's steadying hand.Orlean's "Rin Tin Tin" is one of the most moving pieces of non-fiction I have ever read, and I just enjoyed it again.
Loved this book.
Sprinkled throughout is Orlean's own experience with and love of libraries.
Library lovers will definitely want to add this to their TBR.If you’re in need of a positive injection of bookish enthusiasm, read The Library Book now.
You’d think a book about a fire that destroyed 400,000 books and damaged another 700,000 would be depressing, but it’s not.
Sure, it is very sad that so many books were lost, but by the morning after the fire, there was a sense of hope and a coming together of strangers based on the love of books and helping out for the greater good.
Orlean manages to infuse that spirit throughout her book.
Her narrative hook was the great LA library fire of 1986 and the arson investigation that followed.
She also gives a short history of the Los Angeles Public Library and its people, and a biography of the accused arsonist and his milieu.With 440-some reviews here already, I will be brief.
Orlean has an interesting discussion of how arson was investigated then, and how the techniques have improved since.
. He enters Orlean's story by walking from Ohio to Los Angeles, where he had been offered a newspaper job, He was a, well, colorful character.
Although a great deal of this book is about the fire that burned the Central Library of Los Angeles in April of 1986, destroying almost half a million books, and about the young man who many thought started the fire, it is really an ode to books and libraries in general. Just about every aspect is covered, from the history of libraries and books to their challenging future.I adored every minute spent with this book and thank the publisher for granting me the privilege of reading an arc via Net Galley for my honest review
Because of my own fire experience, my love of libraries and books and the fact that I live in Los Angeles, I was interested to read Susan Orlean’s The Library Book.
Trust me when I tell you that you don’t need to have experienced a fire firsthand or live in Los Angeles to find The Library Book a fascinating read.The fire took place on April 29, 1986 and burned for 7 hours.
To this day, over thirty years later, who started the fire at the Los Angeles Public Library and why continues to be a mystery.Susan Orlean masterfully weaves the investigation of the L.A. Public Library fire with history and facts about libraries.
