https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2766647-creative-illustration
I wish I had read this instead of wasting my time and money getting a graphic design degree. There is more useful art and design info in this single book than was covered in all of my schooling.
(More pictures on my blog)This is the fourth book of Andrew Loomis that Titan Books have published. The other three are  Figure Drawing for All It's Worth ,  Drawing the Head and Hands  and  Successful Drawing . All are wonderful reprints, including this one.This is a huge and thick hardcover at 300 pages. There are seven chapters in the book covering the line, tone, colour, telling the story, creating ideas, fields of illustration and experiment and study. The first few chapters explain more on
Figure Drawing for All It's Worth
Drawing the Head and Hands
Successful Drawing
There are seven chapters in the book covering the line, tone, colour, telling the story, creating ideas, fields of illustration and experiment and study.
The first few chapters explain more on the drawing techniques while the later chapters are more on visualising and creating art for display ads.
This isn't a draw-with-me type of book.
The illustrated examples are beautiful and even if some of them are dated, the techniques still remain as relevant today.It's a great book for all who wants to get better at drawing.
This book bases a series of artistic observations upon a formalism of Loomis' testimony and invention.
He argues against cameras saying that art is preferable to the lifeless unemotional camera, because the public prefers to know what they are looking at, not just looking at it mechanically.
And the technique is the bulk of the book.
If you think you know how to draw, read this book.
He explicitly states never to let your art bend to another person's personality or performance, instead he argues, you could use experiment and study of your own work your guiding principle.
This book is a must read.
http://illustrationage.files.wordpres...Looks helpful, but I'm afraid there is some nudity in it.
Got me where I am today as an artist
This is more for color composition (x and y look nice together in the final image) and not about something we might call "color rendering". I don't know if that's the official term, but I mean it as "how do I make these 2 different local color boxes look like they are in the same lighting conditions or made of specified materials". That part was not really covered :/
Whether you choose to read through all the text in this book (and there's valuable, if sometimes dated advice there), or just concentrate on the visuals, "Creative Illustration" is a boon to artists. The only caveat is that this isn't really a beginner's book, nor a "how to draw" book, but more of an explanation of how to approach the thinking process behind your work. So, once you've got some technical skill, a book like this one can help you figure out what to draw and why to draw it in that manner.
Uno de los más amenos y completísimos libros sobre dibujo y pintura que se han escrito jamás. Esencial para quienes tengan interés en el dibujo naturalista y la ilustración comercial.
Finally finished this giant textbook on illustration.
This is the best textbook not only on illustration but also for the entire visual art universe.
The pictures in the book might not be updated anymore but since art skills and our visual perception changed very slowly (it relies on genetic mutation generation by generation), you will find this book valuable even in this photoshopsnique epoch.
There are way too many uncreative fine art books for watercolor, acrylic, oil, etc that just repeats the skills again and again and again.
But then, probably any photoshop manual is more creative than any art books now.
There is always time to review the basics and study different approaches. This book covers both. If you're a student of form and structure, rendering and how to create strong compositions, this is a good book to spend some time with.
A Holy Grail for illustrators.
Fantastic! I first read this book while in college studying Technical Communication. For that field, it was recommended as an aid to making technical illustrations easier to understand. Also, by using artistic concerns (line, color, etc.) we could make the illustrations more appealing and less intimidating to our audience. As an artist, I immediately recognized how many ways it could help me improve. With practical tips and creativity boosters, this book is a must-have for artists who want to have one-stop source for inspiration on a wealth of art topics beyond illustrations.
لا أستطيع التشديد على أهمية هذا الكتاب لدارسي الفنون الجميلة وخصوصًا الرسم، رغم مرور سنوات عديدة على نشر هذا الكتاب، لا زال الكثير مما يُدرسه منطبقًا على وقتنا الحالي، تعلمت الكثير عن التكوين تحديدًا وطرق بناء رسمة متكاملة وخوض العديد من التجارب قبل الرضى بتكوين واحد من هذا الكتاب، لوميس لا يكتفي ببعض الرسومات فقط لشرح نقطة ما، بل يشرح المفهوم كمشروع ويناقشة من جميع جوانبة، أعتبره مرجعًا مهمًا لجميع دارسي الرسم.
I highly recommend books by andrew loomis, because of the individual detailed subjects he draws and write about. And most importantly these books are for free download. They don't make them like this anymore.
A better resource than all of my illustration classes put together. If you have self-discipline enough to learn on your own and don't want to put yourself in debt going to art school for an Illustration degree, this is one of the books you should start with.
Awesome book it teaches all the basics in a very visual manner I recommend it to aspiring artist
Valuable resource!
inspiring book with tons of illustrations, composition ideas, color theory reminders, and tips. Well worth it!
Really great book, but I've been trying to read a poor quality PDF scan. Frustrating. For now, I give up, though if I find a print version I'd love to read it!
This book is rich with forthright information about design and composition. This is one of the most valuable art instruction books I have read.
Excellent book with lots of more advanced topics of drawing, including an excellent review of perspective.
Excellent for learning drwaing skills.
This book is so great & useful for beginner Painters.. :)
A good general illustration book. Check out my full reference books collection here: http://korpannita.wordpress.com/2013/...
A must have! Priceless techniques to improve the composition of your drawing/paintings/whatever you're into.
