https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1105472.Cop_Killer
Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö wrote their Martin Beck series in the sixties and seventies.
They are men of conscience, actively struggling everyday with the issues Sjöwall & Wahlöö drop in their path.
(view spoiler)[By the close of the book, one of them resigns from the force he once loved and now disdains.
A cop and a man he helped convict of murder (now free after serving his sentence) sit down over a seltzer water and an aquavit to share their guilt over the people they've killed.
If you love detective stories and you've not read the Martin Beck books you need to get started.
A woman goes missing in rural southern Sweden and Martin Beck is sent down to find out what has happened to her.
An old adversary and convicted sex offender just happens to be the woman's next door neighbour and was the last person seen talking to her.
Surely he has been up to his old tricks.As ever Beck grinds his way to a result, clue by painstaking clue.
There are also odd passages of lefty liberal anti police and capitalist society invective, almost as if the authors remembered to pause every now and then to add the message alongside the compelling plot.
The two main suspects in the case are her ex-husband and a returning character from the first book in this series, Roseanna, and it is because of the latter that Beck becomes involved in the crime.
Things heat up when Sigbrit's body is discovered, and the press has a field day, putting immense amounts of pressure on the police to solve the crime, and literally trying the case in the newspapers.
While this investigation is going on, there's another crime -- this time against three members of the police force when they make a traffic stop where things go very badly and a shooting occurs.
I was curious how Sjowall and Wahloo will link the investigations this time around and I was not disappointed : a lot of luck and a touch of alertness and attention to details, a healthy dose of common sense and courage.Coming back to the issue of the cop killer that takes over the second part of the novel, my first observation is how close the details of the case reflect the debate at the end of 2014 about suspects dying when resisting arrest: He also knew he was being pictured as some sort of public enemy number one.
Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo stated that McBain's work was an inspiration and model for their Martin Beck series, so was this title an homage to McBain?
They are aided in the investigation by a local policeman, Herrgott Allwright, who seems to know everything about everyone in the small village.Suspicion immediately falls on the woman's next door neighbor who turns out to be the culprit who was apprehended by Beck and his team in the first novel, Roseanna.
Questo giallo pochissimo giallo e molto romanzo a tesi è coinvolgente più che avvincente, ed anche abbastanza straniante per chi, come me, ha della Svezia un'idea di socialdemocrazia avanzata, di società garantista, di stato illuminato.
Infatti, rispetto ai due libri precedenti, gli autori delineano una critica feroce verso la società ed il gruppo di potere che governa la Svezia (le loro opere risalgono agli anni '70).
Questo però senza intaccare il valore dell'opera, cioè senza che questi excursus con opinioni personali appesantisca l'impianto narrativo.
Ma la cosa più bella del libro è che fa venire voglia di fiondarsi in libreria e di comprarne degli altri degli stessi autori ....
The name is a bit misleading as the 'cop killer' case is clearly the secondary mystery; however, it does illustrate the authors' point about the police & government bureaucracy perfectly.
What is scary to Kollberg and Beck (and to me!) is the organizational mindset of a bureaucracy which views aggressive confrontation as the natural and best response to any situation, with bigger and more weapons as an improvement.
Into this scenario enters the 'cop killer' -- (view spoiler)[a teenaged boy who was present when another boy shoots at a couple of patrolmen after one of them begins to threaten him.
I really love the plot this time, Herrgott Allwright was a lovely policeman and Beck and Kollberg doing great like usual.
Love on how the book shows me about the crime and given me few suspects but with no how and whom exactly.
Loving Kollberg so much here.
I keep on assuming and guessing on how both cases could be related like how both Kollberg and Beck will cross path during the investigation-- so much thrill and action.
Interesting plot structure, quite excellent though few chapters in between changing perspectives and such but the flow was still great and gripping.
The title has a double meaning, which you will guess if you read the series. Again, as in the previous two, social critique is as important as the murder mysteries, but the sustained critique and theory doesn’t interfere too much with the story. Only one book more to go, and I will miss all these characters, places, and stories.
The only bad thing about the Martin Beck series is the fact that there are only ten stories and this is the ninth! The only consolation is the possibility of reading and enjoying them all over again! Excellent.
I admit that it starts off fairly well with the murder of a divorced woman who's body is hidden in the woods and the subsequent search for her killer.
Unfortunately, about half way through the book the authors suddenly start up an, apparently, completely different story about two youths involved in a shoot-out with police and the search for one of the survivors of that incident.It is at this point that they take the long way around, by way of Coincidenceville, to tie the two threads together and solve the mystery of who committed the murder at the beginning of the book.
The story begins with a young woman, Sigbrit Mård, picked up and murdered on the outskirts of a small town by someone she knows.
Martin Beck arrives in Anderslöv to help with the disappearance, with suspicion pointing to her ex-husband, a violent, sea-faring drunk, and Folke Bengtsson, a paroled sex-murderer from an earlier novel.
Martin and his team resist the relentless pressure of the bosses, and find the criminals without fanfare or violence.
I enjoyed the local policeman in Anderslöv, Herrgott Allwright, who seems to know everything about everyone in the small village and neighboring area.
I'm in the position of looking at that box of candy, when only one piece is left. Cop Killer was number nine, a bit slower than the last few, but at this point Martin Beck & company are like an old group of friends whom I'm just happy to hang out with. As is their habit, Sjöwall and Wahlöö throw in plenty of wry laughs along the way.
Another really good one set in Skåne (southern Sweden) and Stockholm in 1973.
We have a return of the criminal from book 1, and Martin Beck's Skåne colleague answers to the - for Germans - hilarious sounding name of Herrgott Nöjd.As an aside: Much as I enjoy reading this series, I'm part amused, part exasperated by the authors' attitude throughout.
It is a mix of bitterness and pessimism, certainly for some good reasons, towards a faceless "system", "society", and the strongly lefty views seemingly obligatory to all "intellectuals" of the time.
Or all time.
This was a typical police procedural in the Martin Beck series. I liked how the authors brought back suspects from previous books in the series into this one. They were woven into this storyline in a well-thought out way. It was very natural and didn't seemed forced. The sudden plot turn during the story was confusing at first, but they tied it together nicely eventually. The ending was a slight let down, but it did make sense. Overall, I enjoyed the story. This series is growing on me.
Irá auxiliar o policia local - Herrgot Allwright - um homem simpático, divertido e atencioso, dotado de um sentido de humor contagiante com quem o Inspetor Chefe da Brigada de Homicídios de Estocolmo simpatiza imediatamente.A linha de investigação inicial é simples: os dois policias, com a ajuda de Kollberg, tentam perceber se o culpado pelo desaparecimento é o mesmo assassino que o nosso protagonista apanhou, pela morte de Roseanna, há nove anos atrás ou o seu ex-marido, que tem tendência para a violência.
Mais uma vez, o Inspetor Chefe tem de lidar com a pressão exercida pelos seus superiores, a quem tenta, de certa forma, agradar, ainda que não seja homem de ceder nunca às suas convicções e princípios.
The 9th in Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöö's series of police procedural novels featuring Stockholm homicide detective Martin Beck is faster paced than some of the previous entries, which is not to diminish those prior books in any way.
This one revolves around the disappearance of a woman in southern Sweden, the likelihood that the killer is a man Beck knows from a previous case (depicted in the first Beck novel, ROSEANNA), and Beck's increasing realization that there's more going on than the open-shut case everyone thinks this is.
Beck is a great character, in part because he has no flamboyance, no colorful stereotypical detective-novel traits.
Bettie's Books
De Sjöwall & Wahlöö-fans zullen het niet zo graag horen maar ik vond dit niet zo goed.Het boek combineert 2 mysteries: enerzijds de verdwijning van de gescheiden Sigbrit Mård die later vermoord blijkt te zijn en anderzijds de klopjacht op een dief wiens kompaan 3 agenten heeft neergeschoten.Het begint met de verdwijning van Sigbrit en daardoor ben je als lezer snel geïntrigeerd en wil je snel lezen.
De manier waarop Sjöwall & Wahlöö dit hebben geschreven gaf me een beeld van weinig gemotiveerde rechercheurs die maar deden wat hen goed uitkwam.
The depth in this book lies in the perceptions offered of the Swedish police whose behavior is alternately clever, humane, thuggish, incompetent and hilarious, depending of course on the individuals.
As in previous books the "heroism" of individuals such as Martin Beck and Lennert Kollberg asserts itself in their grim determination to do their job to the best of their ability amidst the downward spiraling of a police force hopelessly out of touch with the people they are supposed to serve, employing methods that mostly alienate them from most they come into contact with.
Kollberg solves the case by solving another concurrent crime.
One of the best of the 10, having now read them all.
A couple of crimes, and a fair bit of humour.
The title is ironic.
This book takes pleasure in showing the self serving and incompetence of senior officers, which is heightened by the shoot out with three policemen.
As left wingers the writers are clear to describe the police as necessary but they disagree with the structure of police forces and they regard the police as being used as the agents of the political and economic elites.
They set a threshold for crime fiction that seems now only to relate to those Swedish writers who came after them.
This isn't pulp fiction by any stretch of the imagination but literary works that masquerade in a simplicity and coherency of language that ensured that none of these novels are either over written, or dramatised to the point of exaggeration.
Beck is not living a fictional lifestyle, or inhabiting a mythic capacity to solve crime.
If the welfare state was the best of all possible worlds then god help us, it is a sham.
In the present book, the authors have come up with a second ingenious method of criticising the Swedish police – the resignation letter of Lennart Kollberg, in which this close friend of Martin Beck gives us his (and the authors’) view of the situation.One problem faced by authors who write a series of books based on the same characters is how to refer back to events in previous titles.
The authors did not have to go down this route but, having done it, they must go over some old ground again since not everyone reading The Cop Killer will have read Roseanna.On the positive side, thoughtful officers are still to be found in these pages: Beck himself, Lennart Kollberg and Per Månson.
This is how a crime novel would look like, if Bertolt Brecht ever wrote one.
He didn't (at least I think he didn't) and so Maj Sjowall and Per Wahloo wrote it for him.They use crime novel format to make their point, yet they take it and flip it over to show you how it looks like underneath.
They use cliches as bricks and build tension, only to pull it down in the end in a small pathetic debris.
I really like how they use the titles of the books.
"Cop Killer" is quite unusual, from the start of the book you wait for a cop to get killed right?
One more to go, The Terrorists, and I'll have read all the Martin Beck books, by one of the earliest Swedish mystery genre writers, a husband and wife team.
Each book deals as a subplot with the growing ills of Sweden, especially policing.
The writing is relevant today and sometimes hard to believe that the series was written in the 60s—70s.
The writing is spare, and nuanced, often showcasing truly goofy characters.
Martin Beck himself lumbers through work and life, but gets it right in a mostly anti climactic fashion.
Some of the stories are more psychologically bent than others but I've enjoyed the entire series.
Excellent. As good as any in the series. The politics in ##8 & 9 gets a little heavy handed and ham handed and, worse, is 1970's dated. But while the authors take that stuff seriously, the characters don't, and so it doesn't impede much.
Review of the audiobook.I thought it was interesting that this book took us back to Roseanna - the first book in the series and brought up questions about the arrest and conviction in that book. Another well done police procedural.

And there are the funniest references, that these two Swedish writers would know (before Candice Millard's excellent book) about Chester Garfield and the quality of his surgical treatment.
But in the papers they said he "died this morning of injuries received in connection with an exchange of fire between policemen and two armed men," the latter being first identified as girls because of their long hair but now are "desperadoes."
They are among the best ever at portraying the distaste many, in this case, Swedish, cops have for their supervisors and higher ups of any sort.
Kollberg is, in fact, seriously considering leaving the police force because of what it has become and even writes a resignation in this novel.
Beck and Kollberg use good policing techniques and constantly beat the helicopters, riot shields and all the fancy stuff to both clues and solutions.
Oddly enough, the novel reads as if it could have occurred yesterday rather than back in 1975.
