https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1019332.As_I_Walked_Out_One_Midsummer_Morning
I remember going up to my grandpa's house after he died and reading this, by an open fire, drinking Stones Ginger Wine the night of his funeral.
Anyway, maybe it was the age thing, being hyper-sensitive because of the funeral, it being a windy, stormy night, or the ginger wine, but I read the whole thing in a night.
Instantly it became one of my favourite books, and I read it loads leading up to, and at, college.Fifteen-odd years later, it's still as vivid and vibrant as I remember it.
Laurie Lee fought on the commie-scum side in the Spanish Civil War, but doesn’t seem to have been much of a ideological commie.
One chapter describes his encounter with the right-wing poet Roy Campbell, with whom he seems to have gotten along rather well.
The final chapter, ‘War’, is more vivid than Orwell’s ‘Homage to Catalonia’, and the whole book is loaded with great descriptive passages of 1930s Spain, like this:‘Occasionally a day turned unhealthy, when idleness and ennui led to an outburst of mirthless riot.
Even the Civil Guard would come in to watch.’
- Cider With Rosie (1959) (published in the U.S. as The Edge of Day (1960))- As I Walked Out One Midsummer Morning (1969)- A Moment of War (1991)… around 2006, and loved each book.
He leaves Spain on the brink of Civil War and, as he relates at this book’s conclusion, feels fraudulent for having left the country.
What happens next is related in the third book in this marvellous trilogy - A Moment of War (1991) - and, if you haven’t read them, or even if you have, then you should read them/read them again at the earliest opportunity.
Since this was during the years of economic depression, there were also many men on the road looking for work.
Modern times had not arrived in the small Spanish villages, and the people had close ties to the land and the sea.The first signs of the Spanish Civil War were appearing when Lee was working at a hotel on the coast.
When Lee returns to England, he felt that he should help his Republican friends back in Spain.
His two years on the road were an intense coming of age experience for Laurie Lee.
This is possibly my favourite book, I re-read it every 3-4 years and will continue to do so.I think that is partly due to the fact that I first read it at 21 and I'm sure that like like most people my desire to experience new things without a safety net is strongest around that age.
This book is about that; a young man sets out on a journey at a time when travel for its own sake was extremely rare for the vast majority of people, when leaving the county or even the village was something that some never achieved.
Travelling to Spain, Lee portrays a hard country a world away from the Spain of today.
Yet Lee is beguiled by the country, it's people and customs, its voice, it's music.
It filled me with the joy of escapism, and having been living in the west country most of my life, I am familiar with the landscapes that feature in Lee's other work, although not with the Spanish mainland which I have only visited once briefly.
However, so vivid are his descriptions that it feels as though one is watching a travelogue film rather than reading a book.
A Superbly written book.
In his description of life on the road to London, Lee is able to capture the essence of the failure of capitalism during the Thirties (our current failure being but an echo of it’s father).Spoiler Alert...quotations from the book:Lee finds himself among the “host of unemployed who wandered aimlessly about England at that time...They were like a broken army walking away from war, cheeks sunken, eyes dead with fatigue.
Some carried bags of tools or broken cardboard suitcases; some wore the ghosts of city suits...walking up and down the country in a maze of jobless refusals..” Among them are professional tramps, like Alf, who taught him the ways of the road.
Part of the effect is that he spends all but the last few pages describing rural (and even urban) Spain in 1934 as still living in medieval times, a state of serfdom, ignorance, poverty, disease, and filth that he observed but did not question.
I must say I don't believe that he was quite as politically naive as he claims, but generally he communicates very clearly what it would have been like to experience the countryside and people without the preconceptions of a student of Spain's culture.
He lived rough, and was able to see what life was like at dirt level.The language is truly beautiful--this will repay rereading.
But he waited 35 years before finally publishing an account of the long walk which took him through Spain in the run-up to the Civil War. This long gap of time gives the book its mood of intense nostalgia, with its sensuous descriptions of a vanished world.
The section about Campbell and his family is especially memorable and reminded me of Hemingway's accounts of the famous people he knew in A Moveable Feast, another book written many years later.At the end, the mood darkens as Lee witnesses the start of the Civil War. A ship arrives to take him and other stranded British travellers home, but he can't forget his adopted country and decides to return to join in the fight against Franco.
A British destroyer arrives to collect British subjects from coastal towns and villages and Lee says goodbye to Spain.I felt it was for this I had come: to wake at dawn on a hillside and look out on a world for which I had no words, to start at the beginning, speechless and without plan, in a place that still had no memories for me.Lee is a happy, go lucky, young man who is prepared to venture into a world that is utterly strange to everything that he has ever known.
The best of the 3 autobiographical books poet Laurie Lee wrote, this one concerns his walking tour of Spain just before the Spanish Civil War. He was penniless, young, and open to experience, and as a result, he had a wonderful time wandering from town to town playing his violin for small change, food and lodging.
Serendipity plays heavily in Lee's wanderings, and it made me keenly aware of how jam-packed my life is with work, and chores, and family and everything else -- and how little room there is in it for serendipity.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
This book continues with his leaving home aged nineteen, walking to London via Southampton (where he learns busking techniques) and some of the South Coast, having his first publication of a poem, working as a building site labourer and then spending a year living and walking in Spain.He came from an impoverished background and his sympathies are always with other disadvantaged people he meets on his travels.
It does not need illustrations, Laurie Lee is very good at descriptions and I have been to most of the places he visits, but the paintings and drawings add an extra level of pleasure.
Written by a young man who knows just one Spanish phrase, he earns pesetas from playing his violin and so sees Spain on the verge of Civil War. The thing that stays with me after reading it is the hospitality from everyone he meets along the road, people who have little share that little with him.
The makeshift solution, so Spanish in itself, does not work but he is given a violin for free and continues on his way, finally leaving Spain on the eve of war on a British warship.For more about our life in Andalucía, see www.notesonaspanishvalley.com
I think some readers couldn't help wondering how or feeling doubtful regarding such a verdict; therefore, we should find reading the following exemplary extracts fantastically amazing as those unique kind of travel-lit memoirs in English we should enjoy with unthinkable pure jubilation and dictated fate.After he had reached Zamora one Saturday evening, he sat wondering where he would spend the night.
51)In the War chapter, he was confirmed on a British destroyer from Gibraltar to collect him.So it had come - the sudden end to my year's adventure, with the long arm reaching from home, the destroyer bobbing in the bay liked an aproned nanny, the officer like a patient elder brother.
For me it just seemed very repetitive - I got off the boat and walked to this village, met some interesting people, drank a lot, played my violin to earn some cash and then walked to another village, met some interesting people, drank a lot, played my violin to earn some cash and then walked to another village, met some interesting people, drank a lot, played my violin to earn some cash and then walked to another village, met some interesting people, drank a lot, played my violin to earn some cash and then walked to another village, and then the war started and I went home to England felt guilty about leaving and returned.
From Radio 4 - Book of The Week:Laurie Lee's classic travel book, abridged by Katrin Williams. Read by Tobias Menzies.
“Rescued” by a Royal Navy destroyer, it is only as Lee leaves that he begins to understand the country, and the minute he gets back to his Gloucestershire village we know he will feel bound to return to Spain.Lee’s carefully fashioned account of his two-year odyssey from Slad in Gloucestershire, through a stint of manual labor in London, to his yearlong walk across midsummer Spain, wholly dependent on the charity of strangers, struck me—a woman with little physical courage and no desire to rough it—as a very male experience; but probably that’s just my ignorance of women travellers’ adventures.
3.5
A beautifully written elegy for a world we have lost.
At one point he wrote: "I felt it was for this I had come; to wake at dawn on a hillside and look out on a world for which I had no words, to start at the beginning, speechless and without plan, in a place that still had no memories for me." Whatever his reason to travel to Spain, it was an interesting time to go there, with the Civil War about to break out.He had many adventures in Spain, living in many different towns and meeting all kinds of people.
A bunch of poor people pop out of nowhere, the country is on the verge of civil war, and Lee declares his strong convictions about the justness of the communist cause.
There is an attempt to draw the two together by the mirrored departures at the beginning and end of the book, but it’s not enough to give the whole thing a sense of cohesion.Not to say that “Midsummer Morning” doesn’t have its moments of beauty, but as a whole I feel it’s hampered by a general formlessness.
Cider with Rosie covers 20 years, but in a way is timeless as it is as much about describing the life and rhythms of the village as it is about Lee's own experiences.
Cider With Rosie is as much poetry as prose - this book has poetical moments but is much more fact sequence prose chapters, especially towards the end.
If you enjoy travelogues, especially ones written in different times, like books about people finding themselves through adventure, or have an interest in the Spanish Civil war and the times leading up to it then you will probably enjoy this.
It's actually the second in a trilogy covering Lee's life before and during the Spanish Civil War. I haven't read the 1st or 3rd books but didn't feel like I needed them in order to enjoy this one.In the mid 1930s, when he was only 19, Laurie Lee left his childhood home in Gloucestershire (which he documented in the 1st book of the trilogy) to walk the world and experience life.
The book ends just as the Spanish Civil War breaks out (and which is detailed in the last book of the trilogy.)I loved Lee's ability to conjure characters with just a few sentences - some paragraphs were like flash fiction, they were so compact and full of life.
He has never seen the sea, so he starts off towards that, and ends up in Spain, where he astonished by the diffence in climate from England;"The violence of the heat seemed to bruise the whole earth and turn its crust into one huge scar.
I kept on walking because there was no shade to hide in, and because it seemed the only way to agitate the air around me; I walked on as though keeping a vow, till I was conscious only of the hot red dust grinding like pepper between my toes."Its an absolutely amazing book with evocative language and beautiful prose, that capture a time and place that is both long gone and hard to imagine now.
It is a beautiful, poetic and magical book, that conjures up a past world, but that made me so want to go and see what echoes of it might remain in the various towns that he visits.
It is the account of the author's travels on foot through 1930s Spain, supporting himself by busking on his violin.
Describing it further does not begin to capture he essence of the book, so i'm not going to try!
It was slightly spoiled for me when I then read some biographical accounts of the author's life and suggestions that he may not always have stuck strictly to the truth.
He walked to London via the coast, he ‘wanted to see the sea.’ After a year in London he booked a one-way ticket to Vigo, Spain.
From there he walked down through inland Spain and arrived at Cadiz, which failed to impress him ‘a heap of squat cubist hovels.’ He survived by busking his violin to the confused Spanish, many thought he was French.
After all, why would an Englishman be walking through Spain.
Lee has an enchanting descriptive style of writing which paints a fascinating picture of pre civil war Spain for his readers.
I find much of the writing in this book outstanding, such perfect prose and intense imagery.
I read it many years ago and have recently re-read it.
Having forgotten how good it was, it was a pleasure to rediscover it.
Set in the 1930s, the author leaves his family in the bucolic English Cotswolds and heads for Spain, crossing it on foot and with only his violin, busking as he goes.The Spain he describes is one of unrelenting heat, passion and poverty.
A society where most had very little, often sleeping on floors and with their animals.For anyone with an interest in Spain, this is a must.
It is not often I get to read such lucid and whimsical autobiographical fiction. Narrating one’s personal story might be a struggle, but Laurie Lee makes it easy. The prose is fluid, convincing, and entertaining. Although flowery at times, it is enough to keep the reader’s attention in the story. This book is not just a depiction of a hero on an enlightening adventure. It is a historical report on Spain’s social and political circumstances during the 1930’s.
An absolute classic !
Young man leaves his country home with his violin and travels from Gloucester via the south coast to London where he works for a labourer for a bit and develops some relationships.
Then travels down through spain after getting a boat to the north.
Very vivid adventures on his way through spain - vivid poverty and culture..
he makes his way playing his fiddle to make money and meets some crazy characters!
He ends up in a village near Malaga on the coast and describes the beginnings if the civil war which ends his first stay in Spain..
