https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/404952.Geography_and_Plays
She is a hen and being a hen is to hen. Hen next to hen in. In her hen hemmed nest of in. Her in. Next hen. Next.She is a "bullet in the back of the rooster."That hen.She is pleasing sequences in order. Straw time, wire feet,
It's Stein so...best served by reading a little. Took awhile to read this but that's just because of the inevitable, purposeful repetition.
Voguish experimentation. Little substance.
It is composing composition and free writing, and an excellent opportunity to try out your own logic.
That is what I said.I wish I could be as funny as he is.Yes thank you I believe in Russia.""A clever saucer, what is a clever saucer, a clever saucer is very likely practiced and even has toes, it has tiny things to shake and really if it were not for a delicate blue color would there be any reason for every one to differ."
То е като ходене из лабиринт, чиито стени са декорирани с картини и части от сцени. Докато четеш, запаменяваш ходенето, посоките, видяното. Накрая излизаш от лабирина и сам си сглобяваш света от информацията, с която разполагаш. Невероятно и с нищо несравнимо изживяване от прочетеното! Всичко се случва след това. Разбира се, тук мога да дам всички възможни звезди - от 1 до 5 - и все ще е вярно. Внимание - не се чете никак лесно. И изобщо не наведнъж. И изобще не изцяло.
"read this book"--not like I ever finished it.
surely its not too sincere when the cartography starts to slouch.
"Geography and Plays" is an exceptional representation of Gertrude Stein's genius. In this idiosyncratic collection, you'll find delightful short stories ("Ada," "Miss Furr and Miss Skeene") and cultural meditations ("France," "Italians") as well as plays which defy easy categorization and all the rules ("Bonne Annee," "What Happened"). Everything herein displays Stein to be an artist who challenged convention, meaning, expectation and logic. Her writing here is consistently assured, often cryptic, just as often fun, and never pompous or without purpose.
