https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5168.Where_the_Heart_Is
I read Billie Letts' story of Novalee and Americus Nation back in high school when it was featured on Oprah's book club.
Novalee Nation is 17 and pregnant when she is abandoned by her boyfriend Wily Jack at a Walmart in Sequoyah, Oklahoma.
The majority of the book focuses on Novalee and Americus and the roots they put down in Sequoyah.
Novalee has never gotten over Wily Jack and fears for him the entire book, almost as though she is afraid that he will come and take Americus away from her.
Novalee meets more special friends.
Sometimes I know I've read a book years ago but can't remember a lot about it.
The main character Novalee Nation a 17 year old who is abandoned by her boyfriend and who gives birth to a baby girl in a Wal-Mart store.
Novalee was such a great character and easy to love and root for.
There is also such a great cast of supporting characters in this book that are treasures with a couple that you will love to hate!
Characters who open their hearts and home to Novalee and teach her many lessons while helping her raise her daughter Americus.
I read this one in high school, right before the movie with Natalie Portman came out.
That turned out to be a bad idea, because the whole time I was in the theater I was analyzing how the book and the movie differed.
Novalee seems to charm everyone she meets, but she is naive at times and learns the hard way that not every person is trustworthy.
Still, she has a strong soul and seems to prevail despite the hardships that are thrown at her.
Novalee, despite the weird name, is one of the most realistic characters that I've ever read.
i loved this book. i have read many reviews by people that don't and the words "white trash" were always in there somewhere... they couldn't enjoy a book about a "white trash" heroine. i think that it's easy to judge, easy to devalue something because of personal prejudice... but if you've ever been in, known someone, or just heard about another human being in any of the situations resting in these pages, you can see the plain truth of it and it's beauty.
What a colassal waste of time...i'm giving this book the finger as we speak.
This book was horrible, if I could give it half a star I would.
And I thought Forney was a complete loser & Novalee was dumb to be so attracted to him, & I think the author had way too much fun thinking of ways that God could punish Willy Jack, the loser father of the baby, because all these horrible things happen to him.
It makes teenage motherhood look glamorous & sends the message that if you get into the situation that Novalee did everyone will love you & embrace you.
And one last thing, I thought "Americus" was a really stupid name for the baby.
I read this book in high school and it sparked an interest in reading that was pretty much non-existent until then. Thanks Miss Illingworth! I also saw this movie, and although it was cute, I am much more connected to Letts's fabulous characters as they were described on paper. She has a true gift of making you connect with the people in her stories. Their "real-ness" is something to be applauded.
This book is right on the border of dreadful.I must have gotten this book out of the trash.
I hope I didn't pay even 20 cents for it at the Social Services League.
Maybe I got it on $5 bag day at the Friends of the Library book sale.
All I can say is that any amount I paid for this book was TOO MUCH!I read it when I was on a trip.
I read it in airports and on airplanes and in hotel rooms.
I left it behind in my hotel room when I checked out.
I hope so.
Having seen the movie several times I already really knew this story.
This book came out when I was only 5 years old and it is crazy that it has taken me this long to pick it up.
The book gives a lot more detail character wise than the movie which was nice on occasion, but I thought the movie did a good job editing the characters especially Willy Jack; there was some unneeded scenes with him.
Having said that this story is filled with great side characters.
The story as a whole is engaging and heart warming.
I find it's really a book about the kindness of strangers...it has so many heartbreaking moments, but you go from sad to hopeful within seconds, from the good in the characters and the author's beautiful writing.Reading it again I wish it were a longer book...now I feel it goes from one scene, or tragic or good, event to the next too quickly.
Dying to jump straight into it, but with only two books by this amazingly talented author, I may need to cherish and save it for another lazy Saturday afternoon.
This was a very easy read. A very good story. Of course considering I've seen the movie 1000 times the whole way through it I was comparing the two. Of course the movie didn't have all the personal relationships Novalee gains but as a whole the movie kept the same story. The movie just mixed the events up.
I admire that in her, and the others in her life, they all gave chances to people who may not deseve them, its something that sometime i wish i could do, trust those who i should.
The book shows that some people are bad and some are good, but sometimes theres a time to trust, time to understand, to forgive.
Have you ever been so "daw-gone" tired, that you're visualizing the comfort of your solitary bed?
That warm down comforter.
You've finally made it.
Finally, you settle into bed, turn out the lights.
That moment when you shut your eyes and relish how wonderful it finally feels to completely let go.
Each time I settled in to read a few passages, I was just overcome with so much love and concern for all the characters.
Despite having more than a few heavy themes and scenes, it all came together in a warm, comforting way.
Definitely at the top of my comfort reads.
I'm one of those people who prefers to read a book prior to watching the movie adaptation, because I like to visualize the characters and scenes myself.
She sees her again TEN years later and believes her mother when she says she wants to help Novalee get an apartment and help with the baby.
Even if you didn't see the movie beforehand, anyone could see that her mother would disappear after Novalee handed over her entire savings.
She is portrayed as someone who loves to read and is a responsible mother, it just doesn't fit with the character.Additionaly-the book contains chapters discussing Willy Jack (the boyfriend who abandoned Novalee).
Didn't review at the time of reading, unfortunately, but loved this story. Heartwarming and we saw the good side of human nature in the end.
4,25 stars - English hardcover ( libarybook ) - I have dyslexia - review follows later 🍀🦋🍀
Honestly, the only thing I enjoyed about this book was that it was an easy read, which made the process of finishing it quick and slightly less painful.
Novalee is the least inspiring protagonist I've ever had to follow, and the breaks to Willy Jack's story line came as a relief, despite the fact that he's meant to be a secondary character.
I don't understand the choice to make this book first person; sure, it would be weird to switch between Novalee and Willy Jack's perspective if it was in first, but for the purpose of the novel I think third person was ineffective.
Where the Heart Is is a story about a 17-year old pregnant girl called Novallee on a road trip to California from her home in Tennessee with her boyfriend, hoping to find a happy home with her boyfriend working on the railroads.
Never has Novallee ever lived in a house and she wants to make sure that her baby grows up in the best environment that she can create.
This book is about people’s lives, the hard-ships they encounter, the sadness that happens at unexpected times, and how they, with their friends, managed to pull through, together.
This book is about how Novallee found where her heart is.
I didn't finish it --- a rare thing for me, but really, I couldn't spend any more time with the naive, starry-eyed, po' white trash heroine.
When she gets her hands on some money the first thing she does is turn it over to her mother who abandoned her when she was nine (or something).
Loser Mom read about her daughter in the paper because daughter had her baby in Walmart and the Walmart baby became great advertising.
Hopefully she will also become a little bit smarter about people who use her (boyfriend, mom, etc), but thankfully I won't have take that journey with her.
That's the great thing about books.
I really enjoyed this book. It was a quick, cute, easy read. It seems that this is a love/hate book. Don't read it expecting some great piece of high-minded literature. Take it for what it is - a feel good story about growing and changing.Novalee Nation matures throughout the book because of the people she meets in her new home. Where the Heart is is a book about the journey that you take as you grow up.
Ahhhh such a great feel-good book, but NOT, at the same time. Novalee definitely has experienced her share of heartbreak and sadness, but she trucks on and always comes out okay on the other side. I have always loved this movie and the book was wonderful as well! I was happy to see that the movie followed very closely with the book.
The upbeat side of tragedy comes through at every turn and the reader is pleasantly left with the optimism that good will prevail. A joy to read and emotionally satisfing along the way.
What may appear as fluff and cheap chick lit is a masterful account of the ebb and tide of love, while there are saccharine notes there are some hard hitting truths exposed within the pages.
Home is where the heart is; but this novel contains one of the most shocking accounts of domestic violence and sexual abuse I have found in print.
As an adolescent my childhood home was robbed - the feeling of security and trust the environment fostered were forever shattered by the knowledge that our security had been violated.
The characters were really cool but I did not like the protagonist.
However, I liked the way they show her development from someone who needs constant support to someone who is a source of comfort to her friends in time of need.
Moses Whitecotton and Sister Husband were very interesting as well because they were very eccentric and provided a contrast to Novalee's character.The developments in the plot bout Willy Jack were interesting and they gave a nice break from Novalee's life, the parts of his story kept me on my toes and provided supense to the story.
I liked the book, but I think if it were written in first-person then it would have seemed more expressive and less cheesy.
I admit my review is a little skewed as I had seen the movie several times before ever reading this book.
I think that made the book a little less exciting, hence the 3 stars.
I did however enjoy reading it and noting all the differences between the book and the movie.
However, I think she probably needs to wait until well into her teens as the book contains some language, sexual content and other things that I would deem only appropriate for an older audience.
Instead, Novalee makes a family for herself out of the misfits in a small Oklahoma town.
The setting feels very nailed into the Oklahoma landscape in a way that The Readers of Broken Wheel Recommend does not.
I originally picked this up in undergrad because the hook - pregnant Novalee somehow manages to live inside the Wal-Mart where she is abandoned by said awful boyfriend - caught my attention and I was looking for an escape from MCATs and biochem exams.
A good summer read if you're starting to look for beach reads.
Great book. I read it in 4 hours and spent most of that time crying. Definitely a book that stays with you and warms your heart. The movie version was actually pretty darn faithful but doesn't take the place of this gem.
Not sure why, but this one always appealed to me. Something about the idea of surviving in a Walmart...just intrigues me.
The writing is fine, but the story was too saccharine and preposterous for me. I’m not found of romance and fluffy fiction so I struggled through most of it. I decided to finish it only because it was part of a challenge. 1.5 stars.
Thought Letts makes this book an easy read, I found myself wondering why a lot of the chapters were dragged on when the conflicts could have been resolved easier and more effectively.
This was mostly due to the fact that the character archetypes such as the funny best friend/sidekick, wise elder and love interest, were so generic and overused in all average books and movies, that I could pick out every cliche.
One thing I definitely applaud an author for is the attachment I would feel at the end of a book to a character.
