https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424959.Tell_Me_a_Riddle
The stories are:I Stand Here IroningHey Sailor, What Ship?Oh YesTell me a RiddleTillie Olsen (1912-2007) was an early feminist, union organiser and communist.
I Stand here Ironing is told from the perspective of a mother of five children, looking back at the way she parented her first child, Emily and feeling guilty that this may be the reason Emily is having problems now.
The construction of the story is interesting; the voice of each family member has its own strength and weight and we see the situation from each perspective.
Olsen makes Whitey more interesting; although living in a very masculine world, he is happy to help to clean the house and care for the children.

Though there is much more to the four stories in this slim volume than the disruptive force of family life, I think it appropriate that I read the majority of the final, title story while three of my husband's grandkids wanted drinks, snacks, pillows, covers and conversation from me.
It's online.)The two middle stories deal peripherally with a San Francisco family, a couple with three daughters.
Though I didn't find these two stories as strong as the ones that bracket them, they have powerful moments and should be read to give the final story its full effectiveness.That longer story is a tour de force: a poetic, heartbreaking, compressed history of the marriage of the Russian-immigrant grandparents of the girls in the two previous stories.


This short story was a game changer for me -- after reading it, I was certain I wanted to major in English literature.
Before that, I knew I wanted to teach high school English, but I wasn't sure if I wanted to focus on literature or writing in my major.
As I sat on my bed in my freshmen dorm room, silently and uncontrollably crying as Olsen pushed the story further and further, I knew this story had turned on a switch within me.
Tillie Olsen pushed me to realize literature allows us to understand our commonalities in spite of our many differences.
Like Paley’s characters, Olsen’s women seethe quietly against the thankless, endless sacrifices of motherhood.
What could let you know what you’re in for more succinctly than a collection whose first story is titled “I Stand Here Ironing”?
“O Yes” addresses the creeping effects of the matrix of racism in which we all live, as a black girl and white girl, best friends as children, are driven apart as they reach the social crucible of junior high school.The title story “Tell Me A Riddle” presents an aging couple facing an expansive rift after nearly half a century of failing to communicate with one another, a dying woman who devoted every ounce of her life’s energy to raising her seven children and her devoted but entitled husband, mystified at her spasmodic, experimental expressions of a long-suppressed will.
Her most famous short novel (or long story) is, of course, “Tell Me A Riddle.” I was surprised to learn that it has been anthologized over one hundred times, and that there were three films made from it.
It is the story of death and loss – again emphasizing the personal sacrifices made by people in order to raise a family in depression times.
It turns out that they have mostly been living together only to raise a family and to survive all these long years.
Husband and wife decide it’s time to go and vist all of their children and their families.
Though bleak, it's refreshing reading honest stories of the "other" San Francisco: families scraping by year after year, earning wisdom through deep regret and being experienced have-nots. There are still quite a few folks like these, though you'd never know it through the media's hipster and old-money portrayals of the city. The title story is a challenge to the idea of waiting for retirement.
An elderly couple is faced with a choice, with neither of them getting any younger, they have to decide whether to go and live with their daughter or stay at their home of many decades.
With the woman reluctant, they begin the trek to their daughters home.
All is well with this couple as the trip progresses with new sights to see and their cold relationship being warmed by this journey of a life time.
This story reminds me of the time I spent with my late grandfather.
We spent lots of time together before he passed.
These four stories tackle issues that are still prevalent today: racism, addiction, feminism.
All of these stories will stand up to rereading.
The first of my favorites is “As I Stand Ironing,” a mother’s melancholy musings on the young life of her first daughter, which was lived by necessity, with hardships.
The second favorite, “Tell Me a Riddle,” is really a novella and is the best in this slim book.
It is about an aging couple, émigrés from Russia, who have both made sacrifices for themselves and their children, and who have differing ideas about how to live out their remaining years.
It’s a poignant tearjerker of the very best kind!
L'incessante e spossante rinuncia del vivere quotidiano.Essere moglie «Bugiarda - disse lui risoluto - c'è stata anche un po' di felicità», essere madre «Pensa che solo perché sono sua madre abbia una chiave, o che in qualche modo potrebbe usarmi come chiave?
Vive da diciannove anni.
These things shall be.* *[Titolo di un canto di lavoro britannico tratto dalla poesia A Vista di John Addington Symonds]
US school are considering making Tillie Olson’s short story “I stand here ironing” required reading for high school students.
Life is not beautiful in Tillie Olson’s world, it is nasty, brutish and short.
A mother stands ironing while recounting to a teacher the struggle she had raising her oldest daughter and their awkward, painful disconnect now.
It’s a moving testament to a mother’s love and mother’s guilt.The other stories in this collection were not as good, and were equally tough to read.
If you do read any, “I stand here ironing” is the best one, but it’s still a sad, intense read.
I am not a native English speaker and it was difficult for me to follow the short stories of this book. However, the first story, « I stand here ironing », touched me a lot, as it was about a mother describing her deep feelings about her daughter. While ironing her daughter ‘s dress, she remembers how difficult her childhood passed and how much she missed her when she had to work and leave her with relatives or at boarding schools. The feelings of this mother were so well conveyed that reading them brought tears to my eyes.
I remember reading this book in 1995. I opted to stay in the car and finish the title story rather than snowshoe in southwestern Colorado - that's how into the book I was. I couldn't remember thing one about the book, though, and recently reread the title story. What a sad, tragic story! There's a lot of early feminist stuff in here, as well as themes like aging, the power of names, family, and immigration. Not a lot of uplift here and a whole lot of sadness. A testament to the life I don't want to lead....
Book #5 (I've slacked off and need to pick up the pace in my goal to read at least 25 this year...but what better time to do that than March, National Reading Month!). Read this one originally back in high school, for my Black Literature class. I'd forgotten how challenging it was to get into the dialogue because of the so-accurate rendition of the dialect. So it was a little slow-going at first...but once I got back into the language of it, it was the great read I remembered it to be.
Wow! Nothing I say can adequately pay homage to Tillie Olsen and her writing in this collection of four stories. Thank you, Linda Coleman, for recommending this great read.To fully appreciate the strength of these writings, I suggest, the reader needs to appreciate Tillie Olsen’s own story.Enough said!
The first story, "I Stand Here Ironing," was my favorite in this collection. A beautiful depiction of what it's like to be haunted by your failings as a mother without the sense of hand-wringing that seems to accompany many efforts to capture that emotion.
I like punctuation and full sentences. Found it hard to determine who was the voice and who were the characters.
Confession: I had never heard of Tillie Olsen until I bumped into a short story competition with her name attached.
Some google followed, in which I found this short story “I stand here ironing” http://producer.csi.edu/cdraney/2011/...
and I had ordered my own copy of “Tell me a riddle” (for those wondering: I order my books conveniently at a local, independent bookstore – you should, too!).Despite me knowing you probably would want to read something about the various short stories, the who’s innits, the whatsitabouts and the like I will not.I will tell you it’s a clear, understated written collection of cristal clear short stories, sweet as lullabies and sharp as knives.
Tillie Olsen masterly writes about how it is to love, and how it is to no longer love.
A woman is imprisoned in a 47 year marriage and wants only to spend her final days in solitude but her husband wants to move to a retirement community where there are social activities.
Seen from the woman's point of view the book depicts how mid-20th century women with large families and modest means had no time to themselves.
Women who had other ambitions or interests would often become resentful of their loss of personal identity.
The voice of the woman (Eva) is very depressing and woeful so it's not a very pleasant book to read although it certainly addresses woman's lot in life in this period of time and even today for many women.
From Mom's bookshelf, four short stories. The first three are very good snapshots of the daily struggles of disparate lives. The fourth and title story, for which Olsen won an O. Henry Award, is absolutely magic: an aging couple, struggling with each other, their grown children and the world as they age, are suddenly faced with one's illness and looming death. Which of course alters everyone's perspective, at least a bit . . .
Tell Me A Riddle is a good book of short stories if you want something quick to read, but I wouldn't recommend it. The stories are hard to follow and don't really make much sense. Also most of the endings were very abrupt. This was one of the first books I read this year and I was disappointed. The stories were mostly sad too. I guess it depends what kind of story you like and how you like it be told, but certainly Tell Me A Riddle is personally not my type. It's worth a chance though.
Overall, I thought the writing style and quality was exceptional. Since these stories were written in the 1950's, and that being such a different time, I couldn't feel quite what must have been felt by readers when first published. The story “Tell Me a Riddle” was heartbreaking to me. Quotes that stuck with me: "Race, Human - Religion, none." “One’s age as seen on the altered face of those known in youth.”
My Original Notes (1997):Four short stories. Social commentaries. Poor people, racial inequalities, elderly, etc. Quite good. I would enjoy hearing a professor's comments on each essay. Thought provoking.My Current Thoughts:I should look for this to reread, as I have no memory of any of these stories.
These short stories by Tillie Olsen are in a style different from that prevalent during her times. They'll keep you engaged, especially the longest one, the first in this collection. I've added Olsen's novels to my to-read list and hope to get to them eventually.
A quick and very interesting read. It tells the kind of stories that don't usually get told, the reality of difficult lives. Sometimes it gets a little heavy but overall it was a great collection of stories that I would highly recommend.
I can see why people might like this type of writing style but I'm not one of them. Not a fan.
This short story is simple and sweet. I love this type of reflective piece: instead of taking place at a certain place or time it gently unfolds the thoughts of one person.
This damn book breaks my heart again every time I read it.
