https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760325.The_Informer
It is the story of a man, Gypo Nolan, who informs on one of his colleagues, Frankie McPhillip.
Frankie and Gypo were ‘enforcers’ for the revolutionary forces in Ireland during the early part of the century.
When the police surrounded the house, there was a shoot-out and Frankie was killed.
He also gives us an excellent view of the Irish people at the time, in addition to letting us into the mind of a man like Gypo, a man who was essentially one of God’s innocents in that he was not able to reason the same way his comrades could.
Was reminded by a NYT article in today's paper on the newest Irish prime minister that I had read this book long ago.
Even though you know the outcome from the get-go, the manner in which it unfolds, and the ultimate judgment passed on Gypo for his treason, the story grabs you by the throat and doesn't let go.
As someone whose ancestors (Limerick - Kerry) were crushed and nearly exterminated by Oliver Cromwell and his successors, this book plucked a deep chord and, at least for me, shed a great deal of light on why a Catholic nation like the Republic has a real issue to this day with forgiveness.
My favorite character name in all literature: Gypo.We Irish do not like to forgive. It is our constant undoing.
I don't know when Irish literature took a somber, negative,depressing turn, but The Infomer is a classic of that genre.
Brilliantly written, the story of big, clumsy.
Gypo Nolan who "informs" on his best childhood and adult pal and the consequences of this horrible act of betrayal.
By the way, I believe that "Gypo" is short for Gypsy, or a disreputable person, so probably pronounced like "Jippo." It s a short read and well worth the small but emotional effort it takes to read.
it has to be one of the great novels of Irish, and English, literature.
A procession of events dragged down by themselves. The Informer ultimately fails due to the weight it fails to convey, the tension it ultimately cannot produce. Beautiful passages are wasted by unnatural characters; multifaceted motivation and political ambiguity are possessed not by humans, but by the shades of their actions, dooming this novel to the cardboard-depth of these characters.
Fenian Hulk Finks on Friend, Fatally Fails to FleeIn the confused political situation in Ireland between 1916 and 1925, all kinds of ideologies competed, common criminals took up party work only to revert to their original callings.
Nobody comes out smelling like a rose.
Gypo Nolan, the main character, harbors great physical strength, but little brain.
Gypo informs on a former colleague in the Party, who is promptly surrounded by the police and gets shot dead during the standoff.
The Party suspects Gypo, who fingers an innocent man.
The denouement is not long in coming.THE INFORMER is fast paced, highly descriptive.
Read this as high school required --- given it was a school full of Irish-Catholic descendants it made sense. A sad and haunting (to me) storyof temptation, loyalty, betrayal and redemption set in 1920's post -CivilWar Dublin. An enduring lamentation of The Troubles. "Gypo" Nolan,ex-policeman, rebel, judas is one of the truly tragic characters in literature. An important book for me. Finds itself in my rotation of re-reads.
Starting on this one for a Modern Irish Novel course. Funnily enough, a good friend of mine lent it to me out of the blue just before the semester started, saying merely that it read quickly and well. Next thing I know it's the lead off book for the course! Irish kismet, there it is.Looking forward to it. Comments to follow.
great
After the Irish Civil War a man informs the authorities on the whereabouts of his former comrade during the war. He is then hunted by his former revolutionary brothers for the betrayal while his former friend is hunted by the police. Short enough to be a quick read, but still too much politics and not enough action. At nearly a hundred years since its first publishing it has remained in print and has had several movies based on it.
Good story . Strange writing at times.
Worth reading once but the film is much better.
Those men and women who just a few years prior stood side-by-side as comrades-in-arms fighting the British have turned on each other, and even though open hostilities have ended (badly for the Anti-Treaty side), random acts of violence still occur.
The "Organisation" (the Anti-Treaty IRA) have gone to ground.Gypo Nolan, the eponymous "Informer", reminds me of Lenny in Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men; as depicted by O'Flaherty, he's little more than a simpleton, all brawn and passion, unrestrained by logic or even feeling.
But I'm drawing connections in two directions both of which are at least pretending to be naturalistic.
This either isn't pretending or does a poor job of it.
You know, I think after all it reminds me more of Miss Lonelyhearts.I feel like too many of my reviews these days are some sort of placement of a book in the context of other books.
I feel like this basically doesn't make any sense.
A headcracker like that should be dead or in jail or I don't know.
The narrator can focus whether the action or the psychological state of the characters and it all adds up to the plot, making it very entertaining.
I think he often adds too much descriptions but not to the point of making them unbearable.
I can relate this novel to the film Works of Mike Leigh or Ken Loach, although its style is "softer" than them.
From the very beginning the author leads you to the main and sole purpose of the plot and you know what will happen throughout the story, but still is very exciting.
This is the story about betraying in the relationship and its consequences.
The most visible think in this story is how much fragile can the relationship only be as for money.
In that is the author’s power to grab readers’ attention because they are kept in constant tension and suspense.I was amused by Gypo when he searched his conscience and spent those blood money for example to help that girl in whorehouse who actually wasn't a prostitute or when he bought the food for many poeple in buffet.Another point which grabed me was just at the end when Gypo plead for Mrs. McPhillip's forgiveness.
It wasn't difficult.
Difficult was to stop reading and just to think for a while.
Sin embargo creo que al autor pudo desarrollar más la historia, mostrándonos una maraña de sucesos donde los personajes logren entregar todo su potencial.Por medio del escenario y desde el punto donde el autor la abarca, la guerra civil irlandesa en 1922, me permitió conocer los comportamientos de un grupo social importante para el desarrollo de un suceso histórico.
Principalmente fueron interesantes dos puntos: lo primario que pueden ser los comportamientos de un hombre y, esa 'miseria humana', como medianamente la plantea Dovstoievsky, pues no es desde la sociedad en general sino de ese grupo social.
Reminiscent of the "The Power and the Glory"(Greene), this book follows a morally questionable character, Gypo Nolan, as he struggles to survive many toils and snares after snitching on his colleague in the Revolutionary Organization to the British Police.
It's not a book who's power will knock you on your tuckus, but it does justice to what it must have been like to live in Ireland during this time and he gives us a good plot to keep us turning this thin volume.
It's a hard book to abandon because you will be nagged by the question of: whatever happened to big ol Gypo Nolan?
Following the Irish Civil War, Gypo betrays his friend Frankie and turns him in to the police for a murder Frankie committed.
Gypo's life is then at risk and he must protect himself from his former comrades, all of whom are pretty teed of at what he did.There's a John Ford-directed movie of this book that I'd be curious to see.
The story was fine, but I have a feeling the movie (particularly directed by Ford) would be better.
In any case, I've been sort of neglectful of Irish authors as many of them have disappointed me - most recently Donleavy's The Ginger Man. Surely they're not all so craptastic.
A simpleton led by impulse... I imagine it would have come about him by the poverty of the time... The end of this book is indeed a scene to make you cry... I enjoyed this book!Forgiveness abd redemption...by a loving mother... And grace bestowed... Enjoy it if you ever choose to read this book! James 5:19-20 NASBMy brethren, if any among you strays from the truth and one turns him back, [20] let him know that he who turns a sinner from the error of his way will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.
A good companion to "The Conformist". Getting by in the real, practical, possibly dangerous world, versus ethical, moral choices, and the consequences of these choices. Rationalizing the short term ease of a compromise. Suffering more, because others fall victim to these choices. Others that never had the opportunity to choose for themselves. Just people in the wrong place and time. Gives the reader a good grasp of "the Irish problem", while making it a human problem of wider scope.
Hack writing at it's finest this early pulp fiction written in 1925 was obviously popular as my Penguin edition of 1936 was the 6th reprint. I cannot see any reason why Penguin should have chosen to have this under their imprint other than it's popularity which would have affected their financial bottom line. Overblown, florid writing par excellence most of this novel made frankly no sense whatsoever. Cod philosophy results in a load of codswallop.
This felt a lot like Crime & Punishment…if it were set in Ireland during “the troubles” and the protagonist was a brutish moron instead of a sensitive, philosophical type. We get to watch the mental torment of an oaf who betrays his friend as the vengeance-seeking revolutionary party plays a game of cat and mouse with him. The plot crawls through the seedy underbelly of Dublin and was surprisingly deeper/better than I expected.
It was a slow build up and you did feel somewhat for the tragic character at the end. I think this would have been much more powerful in the environment where these things were happening and closer to the time when the events occurred. While I might not necessarily recommend it to everyone, it definitely interested me enough to want to see the academy award winning film based on the book.
I am more familiar with Liam O'Flaherty's work as a short-story writer than with his novels. At points the writing and dialogue were a bit far-fetched (e.g., any of the long monologues of Dan Gallagher), a few parts veered towards melodrama, and the ending was (as another reviewer put it) a tad corny. Still, "The Informer" was a solid book...more like a 3.5 than a 4.
60/100I'm sure this is a fine book and all, but I could not, for the life of me, stand the needless exposition upon exposition upon exposition. I honestly feel that O'Flaherty could have told the same story, but shorter while still leaving in the important details.
Novela brillante. El uso de los diálogos tan "coloquial" (más bien paleto) cruje en las primeras páginas al ser escrito, característica que no resulta tan extraña en el lenguaje hablado. Pero el final es absolutamente perfecto, con esa escena final redonda.
The Informer by Liam O'Flaherty (1961)
Great psychological story of a man on the run during the Irish Civil War.
While a not a well-known masterpiece, and somewhat of a corny ending, O'Flaherty has really interesting characters in this book and I really liked it
