https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119382.The_Sands_of_Time
No one really ever wrote a more entertaining romantic potboiler than Sidney Sheldon, and The Sands of Time is one of his best.
Each divergent story-line is as interesting as the last, Sheldon's tremendous gift for storytelling on grand display here.You won't forget nuns -- though not all are actually nuns -- Lucia, Teresa, Graciela or Megan, nor will you forget the wonderfully colorful portrait of Spain and its conflicts of the period when this was written.
Sheldon's never going to make anyone forget Remarque's Three Comrades, but for sheer entertainment, you can't beat The Sands of Time.
This books is a story about some nuns who have different and strange background and who are either trying to get away from this nun-ship or want to involve more deeply into it.Either way they end up getting outside the place they spend their lives and to see the world and how it is working and doing now.With a lot of tragedies and up and downs in these women's lives, this story progresses.Having read considerable number of books by Sidney Sheldon, I thought it could have been more entertaining than his other works.
The first time I read it I was just a sophomore student in high school and I just couldn't put it down.
It really different from the usual stories that I was used to reading.
I promised myself then that I will buy a copy of my own.I started collecting books then with John Grisham's and Agatha Christie's works.
It was so hard to find this book from second-hand bookstores.
I couldn't afford to buy a new one since I was still a student and lived on a tight budget.Finally, I found a good copy for only Php150.
When I finished reading this book, my first reaction was...I mean, after all the excruciating details for the bull run, the convent, what happened with Sister Teresa in the military camp and some other things that I cannot remember anymore (I did mention in my other reviews that I do not have a good memory), I found the ending somewhat lacking.
Okay, to be perfectly honest, I found the ending totally lacking.
After reading this book and after my "what the hell?" moment, I really wanted to hit something or even someone.
Reading this book was mentally tiring.This is just my opinion though.
A good read but far from perfect: 1. Not a single likeable/memorable character in the entire book2. The entire backdrop of Spanish Civil war didn't have major impact. 3. Too many characters, each with his detailed backstory which had no relevance to the main story(OK except 1 )Not the auhor's best work But overall a good read. So 3/5

I know it is a story and one should not have too many questions but still.....
This is the second book I have come across of a convent with the code of silence followed by its inhabitants.
. But the atmosphere was so different from The Beautiful Mystery which was a five starrer for me.It is the story of four nuns who escape from their convent during a military attack on it and of the rebel leader Jaimie Miro .
How all their lives become entangled is the crux of the story.
But I have may unanswered questions (view spoiler)But all in all an entertaining read.
The story is set 37 years after the Civil War in Spain or the Spanish Inquisition (which lasted from 1936-1939).
More than half people lost their homes and lives in the battles for power between the Republicans and the rebel Nationalists in Spain.Going back to the real setting of the story.
Dated 1976 in Madrid -Spain, the Spanish government ruled by a authoritarian leader, Leopoldo Martinez had a conflict with the Catholic church.
Leopoldo Martinez believes that the church has been hiding and aiding rebels inside their convents.
I couldn't put it down at all. I never wanted to stop reading it, it was a really addicting and enticing read. But then we are talking about Sidney Sheldon aren't we? Though I think at a point in the middle I thought the flashbacks were getting a little too much, but then I found myself grateful for all that knowledge. The character development was precise and each character had an intricately drawn past which was explained in detail. And that does sound awesome.
Either I am going to reallyyy regret my decision to read Mr. Sheldon or it might be the start of a beautiful love story! (starring me and his books) But keeping in mind my history with suspense/thriller chances are of latter.
4 nuns escape their covent with a group of terrorist.
Except for sister Megan and Graciela.
Such as, in the book where the nuns had to keep their heads down without the word for 50 years...
Have you been into something that made you seem like time was running by really fast?
It makes it seem like a hour glass.
There was another theme in this book.
The Basque soldiers/terrorist had faith that they could overthrow the government.
The nuns had faith that they can cross the 4 walls where they were trapped...forever...
Even though there was a win-win situation at the end.
আমি ইংরেজী বই বেশিদিন হল পড়া শুরু করি নাই। ৭-৮ বছর হবে, তাও ছাড়া ছাড়া ভাবে। এরপরও আমার বনধু মহলের অনেকেই আমাকে জিজঞাসা করত নতুন শুরু করলে কোন বই দিয়ে শুরু করা যায়। আমি উততর দিতাম আইজাক আসিমভ নাহয় সিডনী শেলডন। কেন?কারণ খুবই সহজ। পরেস একেকজন কে একেক উপাধি দেয়। কাউকে কিং অফ হররস, কাউকে কিং অফ থরিলারস, কাউকে নভেলিষট ইতযাদি ইতযাদি। সিডনী শেলডনের উপাধি শুনবেন ? দয মাষটার সটোরীটেলার। আসলেই অনযদের লেখা উপনযাস হিসেবে মনে হয়, মনে হয় কযামেরা দিয়ে আমি দেখছি আর নায়ক আমার সামনে অভিনয় করে দেখাচছে। কিনতু উনার ব
আমি ইংরেজী বই বেশিদিন হল পড়া শুরু করি নাই। ৭-৮ বছর হবে, তাও ছাড়া ছাড়া ভাবে। এরপরও আমার বন্ধু মহলের অনেকেই আমাকে জিজ্ঞাসা করত নতুন শুরু করলে কোন বই দিয়ে শুরু করা যায়। আমি উত্তর দিতাম আইজাক আসিমভ নাহয় সিডনী শেলডন। কেন?কারণ খুবই সহজ। প্রেস একেকজন কে একেক উপাধি দেয়। কাউকে কিং অফ হররস, কাউকে কিং অফ থ্রিলারস, কাউকে নভেলিষ্ট ইত্যাদি ইত্যাদি। সিডনী শেলডনের উপাধি শুনবেন ?
দুধ ত ঘি হয়েই আছে। মাখন না হলেই ক্ষতি কি?তবে বইটা যে সব দিক দিয়ে পারফেক্ট এমন টা না। প্রচুর কাকতালীয় ঘটনা, প্রচুর চাইল্ডিস (যদিও মজার) এস্কেপ প্ল্যান। বিশেষত শেষের দিকের কিছু ঘটনা পুরা বই এর উপযোগী হয় নি।
This is a story of four nuns who were able to escape the hostile military forces of Acoca who got into their convent.
However, they fall into the hands of the rebel group led by Jaime Miro.
Jaime Miro was ultimately the handsomest rebel this story has ever created.
The leader of the outlawed Basque guerrilla.On the other hand, each nun had their personal struggles prior to committing themselves in a life of prayer inside the four-walled abode.
Sidney Sheldon spins a yarn that is both entertaining and addictive.
It was a spellbinding moment reading the thick and rich plot.
On the other hand, Sidney Sheldon's writing prowess is sometimes predictable, in a good sense that you want to prove you're right.
And when you are, you felt great because you feel that you are thinking like a poet, a writer, a master.To get you out of boredom or if you want to kill time or to be invigorated from an exhausting activity.
Try read a few pages and you'll pay no attention to your watch.
کتاب های سیدنی شلدون را همان اوایل که کتابخوان شده بودم دوران راهنمایی به امانت از یک دوست خوب کتابخون خواندم یادم که خیلی دوستشون داشتم هنوزم عاشق داستانهای ماجراجویی و معمایی هستم یک طرح کلی از داستانها در ذهن دارم
I finished this book in one sitting. it was a fun read but I didn't like it that much.
I had no reasons to hate her, and when she saved Jaime Miró twice, I wanted to hug her.Sister Lucia: A Sicilian woman who is the daughter of an Italian Mafioso, who's childhood was a dream for any kid, suddenly finds her world turned upside down when her father and brother are prisoned for the rest of their lives.
Having suffered so much in the past because she was the most ugly person in her family, and then being betrayed by her own sister for the only man she truly loved, Sister Teresa decided to join a convent to run away from the world and finds peace there.
“the difference between a rebel and a patriot depends upon who is in power at the moment.” ― Sidney Sheldon, Sands of TimeThe Sands of Time by Sidney Sheldon is another of my #toptenfavoritebooks.
This best-seller is an action thriller and follows the adventures of four nuns who are forced to elope and leave their Spanish convent during a military attack on the convent.
The rest of the story is all about how this journey goes on, taking unpredictable turns.#NadirasPointOfReview: I love, love, LOVE this book!
I read it back in college but have re-read this book multiple times!
It has been an engrossing and entertaining read throughout the time i had this book.The book can be 
Nuns and rebels teaming up...
Magen an orphan who has no option but joining the convent.
Teressa, joins up to escape her tragic heart break and finds peace, at last.
Graciella joins out of true desire to be with God. And my favorite, Lucia a murderer wanted across state lines, joins because she needs a hide out.
And colonel Acoca happens.....
And love happens, who would have thought.
Romance murder escape betrayal action all in this one bookCan nuns lie....
Sister Magen is an expertcan nuns hit a guy.....Lucia didCan nuns lust.....except Teressa, yes
با حمله ماموران حکومتی به صومعه چهار راهبه برای نجات جانشان از صومعه فرار می کنند.
لوسیا از خانواده ای قاچاقچی, ترزا بسیار زشت مانند شبه زدگان سردرگم شده است, گراسیا بسیار زیبا حدودا سی ساله و مگان یتیمی که که به صومعه پناه برده است همراه با یاغیان حکومتی به سر کردگی جیمی میرو می شوند تا به صومعه ای در منداویا برسند.
هر چهار زن سرگذشت عجیبی داشته اند .
در این سفر درسهای زیادی می آموزند و حقیقت را درباره خود می یابند.
1 پشت جلد اگر نقشه موبه مو اجرا نشود همگی خواهیم مرد.
او دوباره نقشه را در ذهن خود مرور کرد ونقصی در آن نیافت .
نقشه ای ظریف ودر عین حال دقیق.
Damn did I love this book or what. The four nuns were the best characters each with a different catchy story. Each finding love, each having the most not to expect ending. Each becoming a nun not by choice. The story of their lives, Lucia daughter of Mafia boss came to the nun to hide, Megan abandon in Italy as an American baby, Teresia, became a nun to run away from a heartbreaking home, Graciela, the beauty of them all who remained married to the church after all the drama. Then Jaime Miro, the man in which this all begun
One of those, "Just one more chapter" books. The ending surprised me though.
Тун сонирхолтой зохиол! Үйл явдлын өрнөл, шилжилтүүд нь үл уйдаам! Гэхдээ тусгаж авах зүйл маруухан. Сэтгэл санааг өргөж өгдөг нэг тийм дэврүүн бүтээлүүдийн нэг гэж дүгнэхүй
chả nhớ ntn nữa =)))
For, ‘Sands of time’ isn’t anywhere near to an average thriller that he has ever written.A plot set up in Spain, revolving around the chase of an army officer behind a few outlawed Basque nationalists and four nuns, the author manages to speed up the pace of the reader’s heart beats at a few instances.
However, demanding a fair, natural and realistic story from the master of mystery fictions is quite unjustifiable, one could argue.If you’ve read Sheldon well in plenty and looking for thrillers that falls in par with the likes of ‘tell me your dreams’ and ‘bloodline’, this one can hardly satisfy your quest.
Nevertheless, ‘Sands of time’ can serve the purpose of a fair casual, random read.
ولی گراسیا که انقدر زیبا و دلربا بود!
آخه کسی که صورت و اندام خوب داره که تو این مسائل مذهبی وارد نمیشه که:/تاحالا بسیجی خوشگل دیدید؟؟؟؟؟ چه زن و چه مرد بسیجی تاحالا دلفریب و خوشتیپ و خوش قیافه دیدید؟ من که ندیدممعمولن کسانی هستن که جامعه تردشون کرده و یا انقدر زشتن که کسی نگاهشون نمیکنه.
میرن که اون دنیا تو بهشت حال کنن و صد در هزار هم عقده ای هستن و نمیتونن خوشحالی دیگران رو ببیننصومعه و راهبه شدن هم دقیقن مثل همین میمونهاین عجیب بود واسم تو این داستان
If there's one author who really had a big impact in my reading habit and had my heart racing due to mysteries and suspense, it's none other than the Master of the Game himself, Sidney Sheldon.
I remember reading my very first Sheldon book back in college which was Morning, Noon and Night which instantly became my favorite.
I got it from my favorite teacher who introduced me to Sheldon and John Grisham.
I've read this novel over about 10 times already, and still, my view of Sheldon's prowess stays the same.
Saat mereka dipencar-pencarkan, mereka harus bertahan hidup dan menjalankan takdir mereka.Ini adalah kisah cinta terlarang para biarawati ini, keunikan dan karakter mereka masing-masing menentukan nasib mereka kelak.Megan, si gadis yatim-piatu, tak berdaya melawan daya tarik Jaime Miro, si pemimpin gerakan separatis Basque.
Mungkin yg paling miris dan tragis adalah nasib Teresa, yang paling tidak bisa menerima kehidupan duniawi, dialah yang paling dulu terseleksi oleh alam.Novel ini mencengangkan saya karena pusaran kehidupan bak tornado ini begitu memukau sekaligus tragis menurut saya.
Pelajaran dari novel ini adalah kita harus siap "out of the box" apabila hidup kita tidak sesuai dgn apa yg kita rencanakan.
Terpaku pada nilai-nilai lama dan tidak sesuai dgn kehidupan baru akan membuat kita tereliminasi duluan seperti Teresa.
Just brilliant!
