https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7201913-angel
__________________________________________________________________Dear James Patterson, I am willing to forget Maya and Dylan and this 'book' that you published if, in the next one, you bring Max and Fang back together.
There are many different types of books that you can pull off a romance switch like that, but Max Ride isn't one.
SO, I suggest that this next and final novel you are writing should end with Max and Fang.
the only scene where there was a Max/Fang moment that didn't end in, "oh yeah, thats cute, but I'm supposed to hate you so forget it." 3.
Maya and Dylan both die, Max + Fang.
SO MANY FLAWS!!!!!!!!!Love Maximum Ride, but really James Patterson, I'm beginning to hate you.Flaw 1: Max and Fang were in LOVE.
NOT the best duo I could possibly ever think of.
Try to intertwine some memories, please James!Flaw 2: Dylan.
>:( As soon as Fang leaves, Max sits in her room for a day then runs with open arms to Dylan!
Okay, Fangs gone, time to move on!
FANG has been with you all of those times, not DYLAN!
I swear, if max doesn't end up with Fang in the last book and DYlan doesn't get his heart broken BRUTALLY, I will organize a lynch mob and...oh nevermind.
nooooooooooooo is not fair is iggy's turn !!!!! >:( People in James Patterson's personal page he posted the first 8 chapters of Angel and they were... disturbing you'll see when you finish chapter 8.
I think I know what Max would say right about now: "If Fang is in any way harmed - if he gets a hangnail - you won't see another morning."As for the whole Max/Dylan thing, it would depend on if it lasts.
Max falls for Dylan2.
Fang gets jealous/ protective of Max5.
Dylan leaves or diesThe end!But I think this is what will happen instead:1.
Max will resist falling for Dylan2.
Max will fall for Dylan, then will hear from Fang and be all mad at him4.
I think I'd rather have a cliffhanger because that'll mean there's a guarantee of another book.
WTF?Other than the obvious blatant attempt to appeal to the Twilight generation with the onset of a love triangle between a blond Adonis-type mutant and the rugged dark-haired broody mutant, I had a lot of fun reading this book and the series in general.I probably should be ashamed to say that I read the Maximum Ride series, but who am I kidding?
* Her main job is saving the world, but she mostly ends up just doing a few odd jobs here and there.While this may not be Dawson's Creek with mutant teens who have a ridiculously large vocabulary, it IS a lot like Dark Angel, complete with angst, wangst, and a love triangle but specifically with recombinant DNA bird kids!
I'm just wondering how many more books in this series there are going to be. Even the description admits it: "evil scientists are  still  trying to convince Max that she needs to save the world..." STILL?! Come on Mr. Patterson, how much more can you drag this out? Seriously, here are my suggestions:1. Kill Angel (the evil, little, back-stabbing brat).2. Let Fang return.3. Let Max save the world.4. Give the Flock a happy ending. --------------------------------------Edit 3/17--------------------
Even the description admits it: "evil scientists are 
trying to convince Max that she needs to save the world..." STILL?!
Seriously, here are my suggestions:1.
Kill Angel (the evil, little, back-stabbing brat).2.
Let Fang return.3.
Let me revise me old list:1.
Angel can stay.
Don't kill her off, or I will cry.2.
Fang can...
Be happy on his own with the Fang gang, I guess.3.
Let Max save the world.4.
Let Max save the world.4.
Give the Flock a happy ending.5.
Give the Flock a happy ending.5.
And a new suggestion: Keep Dylan around!
Max and Fang are gonna get to see each other before the whole twenty years spiel? Phew.Impending love triangle...O_oFor me, the Voice may have said that Dylan was Max's genetic match, but Fang will always be her soulmate.
NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOANGEL IS GETTING A BOOK?!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!But the she-demon is evil she nearly got the flock killed and caused Max and Fang to break up for 20 years!!!! Yet she gets a book.What are you thinking J.P.Max is believing that Dylan is her perfect match, seriously thats impossible. You better fix this mess J.P or you will be slaughtered by vicious fangirls.
This series should have ended three books ago, before all that stupid global warming stuff.
I LOVE Maximum Ride, but seriously, even good things have to come to an end.
From what I've read of Angel, that's the way it's going to be.I mean, issues:-Dylan.
Fang is one of the ONLY reasons people read Maximum Ride.
In fact, I think it should be called Fang, not Maximum Ride.-Angel.
"Fang is your soulmate." So Max listens to the Voice, and dates him.
This was one of the first books that taught me what makes a bad book (I was 14 when this book was released). Before this point, I had read books in the past that I didn't like, but I never thought it was a bad book... until this abomination was released.Terrible writing, horrific character assassination, and contrived plot points that go nowhere. It's an insult to the original books. Patterson should fire the ghostwriters who wrote this.That's all.
Quick Warning, contains spoilers from book 6Ok so I have been waiting for this book since...
well since 'Fang' came out!!
'FANG' WAS THE WORST BOOK EVER!!!
I'll tell you why:Number 1: Fang fricking left!!
~sob~ I nearly cried, and after I got over my sadness I threw the book at a wall (or at least I wanted to).Number 2: Dylan?
No way.
No fricking way!!
Fax forever!!Number 3: I despise Angel and always will.
Why can't they see that?Number 4: Iggy, hello?!
I adore Iggy and he deserves a turn.
Number 5: And finally...
I'm gonna ~gulp~...
I'm gonna...
Angel.
Die.
‘Nuff said >.< Gawwwww she is SO lucky I can't sprout my own pair of wings on command, otherwise she'd need a bunker to hide in!
She's such a backstabbing little BRAT!
WHYYYYY hasn't Max kicked her butt already?!
She needs a good old fashion SMACK UPSIDE THE HEAD!!!!
Max has lost her mind!
This stupid Dylan kid is moving in on your girl man!
Heck, I wanna kill him and he’s not even REAL!
So quit being stupid and get your butt back here!
Kick his butt!!
(but don’t touch his face cuz he’s still a hottie ^^)  Love, UberFanWhoWishesAngelWouldDieAlready..
Ok so I'm in love with the Maximum Ride Series and have read every book twice.
I like the Illustrated versions but they got Fang and Nudge all wrong.
Anyway, back to Angel....
I agree with many others that James Patterson should really include Nudge, Gazzy and Iggy more.
I'm tired of everything always being about Max or Angel.
And James Patterson, I might be a crazy fan girl but i promise not to kill you and burn your books like some others said they would.
Reading the first four books, I thought to the side, "Aww, they're perfect for each other!
:D" Come Fang, and here's what I thought.
:\BUT enough of THAT.I'm worried about when that menace to society Angel is gonna start up a flock and I dunno, kill Max. Hehehe.
I think a part of me can't let that go, you know..?And when are Iggy, Nudge and Gazzy are gonna I dunno, PLAY SOME PART IN THE SERIES?
(Bahaha, I never thought Max would think like that.) Angel is BIPOLAR.
I'm gonna read this book, even if it KILLS ME!That's it.
If I had enjoyed books 4 and 5, I actually might be excited about this.But seriously, James Patterson should have ended this series a LONG time ago.
I mean, what's the deal with all of this eco-friendly crap?Seriously?The answer: sadly, yes.Personally, I despise Angel.
Here Max is, practically being her friggin mom and saving her butt, and all Angel does is push Max out of the Flock and declare herself leader.
He just randomly pops out of nowhere and makes Fang THE BEST GUY IN THIS FORMERLY AWESOME TURNED TERRIBLE SERIES leave!
Maybe, if we're lucky, he'll turn out to be gay and we'll all be happy again.
You just have to be happy, because you love the series and the characters and you know it'll all be alright, even if you also have an inkling that some of the main characters are going to die?Yeah.
I don't feel that anymore for this series.The first three books, they were great.
There's only one more thing I have to say: Mr. Patterson, let the series come to an end.
RIP Maximum RIde. Oh, and that whole "Save the planet: Kill the humans" thing sounds a lot like what Jeb's group of evil cohorts tried to do with the half and half plan or whatever it's called.
Why the hell is he allowing Angel into the Flock again, I mean what dose she have to do to get offically kicked out?
I love Fang and he better come back and take Max back and KILL DYLAN!
I mean SERIOUSLY its always 'Max and Fang' that or 'Angel is a traitor' this and the rest of the flock are always left out.
and aside from that she is a TRAITOR, and I bet you she will betray the Flock at least 5 more times before this series ends witch it looks like wont be for a while....
Well, not really, but I'm obsessed with the Maximum Ride series and I don't know if I can wait till next year!Update:Finally!
Finally I have this book in my hands!
Now, let's see if it lives up to the Maximum Ride name.Yet again...another update:I just finished this book today and, to my surprise, I really liked it.
Also, I like the fact that in this book there is an ACTUAL bad guy!
Not because of the fighting or the romance, but because Max really matured throughout this book.
Instead of being tough and emotionless all of the time, she showed a more vulnerable side.
When I read FANG I nearly sobbed.
Fang is the BEST character in the WORLD.
I <3 Fang.
WHAT IS UP WITH MAX AND DYLAN?
Like I said I LOVE FANG.
I HATE DYLAN.
I HATE DYLAN.
-_- And Max, she needs to learn a little.
FANG I LOVE YOU!
I LOVE DYLAN!!
I used to love Max, now I despise her.
DYLAN AND MAX HAVE TO MATE??
WHY DID FANG HAVE TO LEAVE?
WHY DID FANG HAVE TO LEAVE?
James Patterson, if you make Max and Dylan mate I will never read one of your books AGAIN!
Angel is a butt poop!!! Shes scary with that "I want to lead the flock" thing! And now shes ganna be the herion? NO! And Yeah, when does Iggy get his turn to be all awesome? I was very excited for this book to come out and now, not so much. Fang is amazing, how could Max not wait for him? He did what he thought was right. Whatever.
A note on Max and Dylan/Max and Fang...Okay, James Patterson, MAKE UP YOUR MIND ALREADY.
So, I LOVED Angel in the first book, thought she was still pretty cool in the second book, started to think she was a little creepy in the third, disliked her in the fourth book, HATED her in the fifth book, but, James Patterson, did you resurrect an epic character or what?
That doesn't mean that I like Dylan, cuz I hate 'im, it just means that Fang is being a little hypocritical towards Max...dontcha think?
With book 5, Fang, the Maximum Ride series begun falling into the dark depths of the Twilight universe, perhaps to never return.I can see Mr Patterson is attempting to leap onto the Twilight bandwagon, like every freaking other new teen release out there.
Dylan is a hastily constructed too-attractive boy meant to suck Max into the pointless love triangle that lovesick middle schoolers and rabid Twi-hards fantasize about.I hope Angel will turn things around and bring back the brilliant world of Maximum Ride that I fell in love with back in books 1 - 3, because Maximum Ride was once my favorite series of all time.
Max is dealing.
With being followed all around by the I-have-been-programmed-for-you-Dylan.
With saving the world—naturally.
And with the heartbreak of losing Fang.It’s bad enough that he left—for a whole other section of the country.
And that he’s setting up his own team of kids as if Max and the flock aren’t good enough.
he goes and invites Max’s clone onto his team!There is going to be a reckoning.
Soon.Fun. What more can I say?
Isn’t that what Maximum Ride is all about?
I love it when a book pulls me along.
Almost as if the wise-cracking narrator had wings:)
This is what I thought fang and max were like BEFORE I read this book:Max: I'm sarcastic and seem indifferent, but I will never let go of the people that I love.Fang: I don't say much, or look like I feel much, but that's because I need to be there to hold the flock up.
I mean, people say he's a robot, but he likes me, so that means i like him, right?Fang: I am the most selfless person in the world for leaving Max and totally did the right thing and besides, it was stupid that she was the leader.
i really loved it but hate that i have to wait a year for the next one =[ such a cliff hanger !!
grr ...and i dont care that in this book dylan is the "better guy" TEAM FANG ALL THE WAY!!!..
=/ I CANT WAITTTT!!!!!!!!!but please let fang come back i LOVE him and everyone knows he and max belong together ...
get the other guy that was "made for her" [BULL] out of the picture PLEASE !!
let fang come back and lets hope angel has nothing to do with him going away more then she already does cause idk if i can stand it!!!
Please, no. Just...no. Hasn't this series been dragged through the mud enough? At least we'll get some closure to the ending of Fang. Hopefully this time the series'll be done for good-the phrase 'should have left well enough alone' comes to mind.
If I ever go camping, I'll take this series with me. You can never bring too much kindling. Or toilet paper alternatives.
I recently read Angel and Fang, and I have like a billion complaints.
I'm not going to lie, a few tears threatened to spill over when Max was reading Fang's departing letter, but I feel losing a brother forever is sadder than your boyfriend leaving you.What's up with the Voice?
If I was not stubborn I would have given up the Korean manhwa "Love in the Mask" the second Ji-Woong came in (btw, don't read it, the story has become increasingly stupid) and I just want to see the ending and get it over with.I don't know, if you ask me, "Saving the World and Other Extreme Sports" was the funniest, the best, and the most well-written installation of the Maximum Ride series.Right now I'm just going to have to believe JP planned all this as to get a bigger reaction when the last book becomes hilarious and awesome again.
I love the new mutants fang has recruited even if we don't know much about them, the idea of more enhanced people fighting with the flock is awesome.
& Part of me did like how max and fang are struggling with their relationship.
Or how it's gone from saving the world from apocalypse by big evil businesses & scientists to there's no way to stop the end of the world, so now max has to lead the mutants after almost all the humans die or whatever?
But they're only being used here as props for max and fang to fight over.
She was still the same sarcastic, snarky, and smartass Max that I have grown to love.2)You complain about Fang leaving.
He thinks he's doing the right thing by leaving.3) Dylan?
It doesn't roll that way with me.4) Angel also thinks that being flock leader is the right thing.
And they will always be the flock.Here's what I think will happen: Both groups, Max's and Fang's, will have to join together again to fight the Doomsday Group.
Max and Fang = together.3) Everyone will join as one big flock.
MAX AND FANG WILL BE TOGETHER.All of you, stop complaining.
