https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24611851-lock-no-1
E così la macchina da presa fin dall’incipit ha raccolto tutto in una panoramica, poi pian piano è andata a stringere, ha accarezzato la strada scura, il fianco del tram che passava in quel momento, e si è diretta nel bistrot fumoso zoomando su un avventore.
Maigret è silenzioso, non ci conosciamo bene ancora, ma non dice mai una parola in più del dovuto, si fida con il giusto margine di dubbio dei suoi sottoposti, ma soprattutto si fida del suo istinto, della sua testa che elabora silenziosa dettagli invisibili per arrivare alla soluzione.
The man who is rescued from stabbing is Ducrau, a wealthy owner of barges, quarries, and other businesses along the river.
He fends off an offer of a job from Ducrau, but keeps close to his man, watching his every move.
And Ducrau puts on quite a show.There is a deadline to solving these crimes, because Maigret is set to retire on the Wednesday following -- a fact that Ducrau knows.
(As there were many Maigret novels to follow, the retirement is obviously not permanent.) But he doesn't get edgy in the slightest.
The Maigret novels that I particularly like are from around this period.
The mystery appears to solve itself when Jean commits suicide, leaving a note confessing to the attack on his father, but when a second man is found hanging, an assistant lock-keeper named Bébert, Maigret has to find a way of fitting together all the pieces of this sordid and tragic puzzle.Since first coming across his books in the library at the age of about 12, Georges Simenon has been one of the constant pleasures of my life.
Maigret soon learns that Ducrau and the old drunk were more than just partners.
Meanwhile two people are killed, with no obvious connection between them, but Maigret soon figures it all out and hauls his killer off to jail.In the course of all this, we get oodles of beautifully written atmosphere from the waterfront controlled by Ducrau, and the compelling portrait of a rich man who's obtained all his goals and now is bored with his life and despises his own wife and daughter and son-in-law.
Acabo el mes de enero como lo empecé: con una novela de Maigret. Me gusta mucho este detective, no descarto seguir leyendo novelas suyas a lo largo de este año. Amenas, entretenidas que, sin ser demasiado complejas, no son para nada meros productos de consumo rápido. Simenon era un maestro, uno de los grandes, de eso no hay duda.
The translation I read was called Lock 1, but it is the same book.
the investigation intersects with the master of a barge, Gassin, and his pretty but mentally slow daughter Aline.
Ducrau likes M, whom he sees as a competent man of action, but humiliates his own wife, daughter, and son-in-law.
Why is he so loyal to Gassin, and what is his realtion to Aline.
In this novel M seems cowed by the dynamic Ducrau and seemed a lesser man than usual.
As usual the descriptive writing is rich, although I felt this translation might have been trying to be too lush.
When he’s attacked at the lock at Charenton, a southeast suburb of Paris, pulled into the lock’s water and stabbed in the back, Ducrau’s incensed: He offers a reward of 20,000 francs for anyone solving the crime.Ducrau, boastful and unpolished, openly keeps a mistress upstairs at his own home, his poor beleaguered, self-effacing wife notwithstanding.
The mistress doesn’t keep the womanizing Ducrau from dallying with the maid Mathilde.
To tell more would be ruin Georges Simenon’s classic, which was previously published as The Lock at Charenton and Maigret Sits It Out. Savor this very different Maigret novel.
Before then he needs to solve this mystery of attempted murder and 2 suicides around Lock No.1 at Charenton.The book is typical about how Maigret usually goes about his investigations but the author gives credit to other detectives working alongside him with background checks and door to door interviews.
For one thing Maigret "retires" at the end of this novel (even though Simenon has some sixty more to write!), and for another it is so driven by the obnoxious personality of the principal protagonist a shipping business owner called Emile Ducrau, then it is hard to read without getting thoroughly annoyed with the lot of them - Maigret included.
This is, an early attempt by Simenon to write less of a crime story, more of a psychological novel, involving a very dysfunctional personality, and his equally dysfunctional family.
Good attempt, but I didn't think he quite pulled it off.
This was probably the most dense and aimless Maigret I have read so far. I understand that Simenon has the concept of psychological mysteries. The unhappy CEO of the barge company and Maigret have a long uneventful stare down in this story. Perhaps a psychology major might have enjoyed this description of the personality of the major character, but I was just bored with the whole thing. From my reading of this there was a murder that was never explained and there were a number of items introduced that seemed completely irrelevant.
The second 'Maigret' novel I have read so far this year and the 15th in total. It's one of the best. The writing is extraordinary and the character of Ducrau is compelling. From the very opening chapter the atmosphere is palpably thick.
Tre stelle abbondanti, per un Maigret che si discosta leggermente dai precedenti. Secondo me qui Maigret è alle prese, per certi versi, con un suo alter ego. Personaggio burbero, borioso e tracotante. La trama non mi ha convinto molto, purtroppo
" ‘Isn’t this enough for you?’ asked Maigret so quietly and with such unconcern that anyone would have wondered if in fact he’d spoken at all.
The inspector is a few days away from retirement when he is asked to look into what appears to be an attempted murder.
The book works simply because, while using Maigret as a proxy for his own perspectives on these characters, we are drawn into the lives of these people while not being pushed to judgement.
Simenon leaves the reader in that space, and we can only imagine how Maigret goes off to retirement.
A short take:Hot damn, this book captures why I am still reading this series.
The mystery is pretty standard, but Maigret's continuous sparring with another major character makes this book fascinating.
Simenon is so adept at creating singular personalities that compel one's interest.
More happened when Maigret and his opponent spoke in a drawing room than most writers achieve in pages upon pages of exposition.
In fact, this book is an excellent example of the "show don't tell" school of writing.I loved reading this book and I very much did not want to put it down until I consumed it all.
What a great series.

I came to Simenon through two non Maigret novels.
The first was 'Dirty Snow' which many think is his masterpiece and followed it up with the brilliant 'The Blue Room' .
This is the third Maigret book I've read and I have mixed feelings.
He is a very atmospheric writer with a unique sense of pacing.
He feels no need to rush or get the riddle solved.
His work ferments as Jim's review excellently points out and I guess you either like that or you don't.
I get how intense Lock no.
I don't think I'll be back soon.
I've just finished reading 4 Simenon books on the trot, and this was probably the best. The Misty Harbour was around 180 pages long, which, by Simenon's taut standards, makes it an epic. The books veer towards a formula but such is their depth and insight that they somehow transcend that. This particular one is a case in point. It almost doesn't matter who did what to who, because of the characters. What is more important is 'why'?
How Simenon manages to marry a plot with interesting characters to the atmosphere of 1930's Paris (in this case) never ceases to amaze me.
One of the best wrap-ups I have ever read.
Lo scrittore belga vorrebbe dedicarsi alla letteratura ‘seria’, ma non ha evidentemente idea di cosa lo aspetta, ovvero un’esistenza in compagnia del commissario: così, forse perché più leggero alla prospettiva di liberarsi della serialità, scrive quello che fino a quel momento è il migliore fra i romanzi dedicati al suo personaggio.
(hide spoiler)] I nodi vengono sciolti nella sontuosa villa di Émile a Samois dove si svolge l’ennesima rappresentazione di un mediocre interno borghese del quale Ducrau, conscio di venire percepito come un parvenu, si sente prigioniero: tutto conduce a un finale perfetto nella sua tragicità per un romanzo che, a dispetto delle giornate soleggiate e delle notti cristalline, dimostra di essere a ogni pagina che si gira sempre più un noir senza speranze.
The dullest murder mystery I've ever read.
As is often the case in the Maigret books the plot doesn’t hinge around an investigation of facts and clues, but of personalities and character – and, at the centre of this one is Ducrau, a self made man who runs a canal haulage business: it is he who is attacked at the beginning of the story and it is his son who commits suicide.
Although the book seems to have a sympathy with Ducrau, there is enough room for us to have our own opinions of this bullying character - and maybe, if we are to see similarities between him and Maigret, Maigret’s investigation can be seen as a way of distancing himself from aspects of his personality.
By chance he is rescued and seems little the worse for wear but Maigret senses that events have not run their course, so he hangs around.Indeed Ducrau's son then commits suicide and a lock keeper is murdered, so there is a case to sort out.Maigret has applied for and been granted early retirement (that came as a surprise to me as this is relatively early on in the series), so this will very likely be his last case.
Ducrau thinks he sees a kindred spirit in Maigret and offers him a job on his retirement, more or less as a security officer.
In fact he is looking forward to his retirement, he thinks.This is quite a heavy, dark feeling, novel.
Maigret solves his cases not by the usual methods of detection but by associating with all the characters and absorbing their life stories.
He sits in seedy bars and cafes listening, talking, drinking, smoking his pipe, allowing his humanity to show and thus gains the trust of the people who know the victim and suspects.
Quite often, as in this case, the root of the story goes back many years.
Although this only book no.18 of 70 odd, Simenon is talking about retiring Maigret, even to the extent of him and Mme M moving out of their flat.
Highly recommended like (pretty well) all Maigret books.
Inspector Maigret investigates an attempted murder of a self-made, wealthy seaport entrepreneur.
A misogynist who treats his wife and children badly, keeps a mistress in his home, sleeps with the maids, and hangs out with the women in houses of ill-repute (to put this delicately).
He sleeps with other women and brags about it in front of his wife and children.
He is retiring at the end of the book and moving with his wife to the country....
There are certainly a lot of books remaining in the series for a retired inspector.
I have to admit that this was a terrible disappointment.
Usually the Maigret novels are fascinating in their characters and plots, but this was simply dull.
It's set up as a battle of wits between two people who are, unfortunately, very similar: Maigret and the shipping magnate Ducrau.
The object is to determine who has committed the attempted murder of Ducrau, inspired the suicide of Ducrau's son, and caused the hanging of another subsidiary character.
However, unlike most of the Simenon books, the delineation of the separate individuals is indistinct and hazy, and the story goes nowhere.
Not one of Simenon's better efforts, alas.
Történetben kicsit gyengébb Maigret, de hangulatában erős: fojtó és zavaros. Ducrau nagyon idegesítő szereplő volt, és nem tetszett a sok elsinkofált részlet, hogy Maigret alig volt magában, egyedül, nem voltak meg a szokásos gondolkodós körei... Szóval rendhagyó Maigret, néhány hullával, sok zsilippel és feszült, de inkább feszengős atmoszférával.
Credo di avere scelto male il romanzo con cui avvicinarmi a Simenon. Sebbene abbia apprezzato le parti narrative e descrittive del libro sono rimasta delusa dalla struttura in sè del racconto, non so se per una mia aspettativa preconcetta o perchè questa indagine in sè è una non indagine. Da verificare con altre letture.
Diverso dai Maigret letti finora, pieno di pathos, amicizia famiglia e morte di intrecciano su uno sfondo di nostalgia per il prossimo pensionamento di Maigret. Bello, mi è piaciuto anche se non l'ho divorato voracemente come i precedenti.
Such a warm wonderful book. About friendship and pathos and murder. Incredible Simenon "description of place", and sensitivity. One of the best. Simenon wrote 19 Maigret novels between 1930 and 1932. So far it has taken me two years to read the first 17 of them.
