https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/367689.Ravished
It's a wonderful story with likable characters and I must have read it at least 3 times already.
Gideon is a scarred, brooding, semi-outcast whose own parents don't believe in his innocence.
Despite having more reason to be bitter and harsh than the immature heros of many other romances, Gideon never behaves like a jerk or takes out his anger on the heroine.
Harriet is eccentric, geekily obsessed with fossil collecting, intelligent, a bit bossy, a bit plain and on-the-shelf in her mid-20's.
Their bond is wonderful, she believes in him and defends him (verbally and in 1 memorable scene physically) to everyone, and he sees her as beautiful.
:)I loved Gideon from the start and he was everything but The Beast of Blackthorne Hall, the nickname he received due to his "shady" reputation and his sinister appearance.
She came dangerously close to becoming a TSTL heroine when she put herself in danger by refusing to listen to Gideon's reasoning, not only once but twice.
Her redeeming point was her never-faltering trust in Gideon, jumping - at one time, literally!
Some events and, particularly, Harriet's reaction to them were "unusual" (for lack of a better word) but, in the end, I thought that quirkiness was fitting.
I love Regency romances - I am a Georgette Heyer tragic from way back - but many of today's efforts are very weak and formulaic.
This one is neither of those things and I was in my reading element:).
The two main characters were delightful, the conversation was witty and the formula was thrown out the window.
Guess what - no misunderstandings between our purported lovers to separate them and lead them astray.
In this book our hero and our heroine understand each other from the start and have each other's backs throughout the story.
It was fun, it was fresh and I loved it!
My first Amanda Quick  and most  defiantly  not my last ! Loved everything about this book ! The plot, the characters...it all radiated true originality ! This one's definatly going into my shelves of favourites !
Gideon and Harriet were extremely likable characters.
Several secondary characters were also a joy to read about, mainly Harriet’s sister and some of Harriet’s friends from the fossil society.I really liked the fossil part of this story as well.
Honestly, the way he felt about Gideon, and the way he treated him for 6 years, was inexcusable.
Though to be honest, even that wouldn't have made up for the way he treated Gideon.
And then imagine that parent believing you did horrible things, even when you repeatedly told them you did not.
*Review Up*  "There she goes again,” Gideon warned his mother. “You had better stop her quickly unless you want the conversation to revert to fossils.”   So I generally try to stay far away from bluestocking heroines in HR, specifically the 'eccentric' kinds simply because they are typically (not always) written to such a slanted degree that it comes off obnoxious and to be completely honest: historically inaccurate. Such was the case here. My first Amanda Quick book and I can see she likes to g
So I generally try to stay far away from bluestocking heroines in HR, specifically the 'eccentric' kinds simply because they are typically (not always) written to such a slanted degree that it comes off obnoxious and to be completely honest: historically inaccurate.
She’s this hardcore fossil enthusiast, to the point that the girl is racing down a bluff like a kid whose hair is on fire to confront fossil hunters from taking over her precious cave.
Harriet’s obsession with those caves and her fakakta tooth fossil I didn't find cute or interesting in the least.
5/5Lo que he disfrutado con este libro. No puedo ponerle ningún pero, o no quiero, y por eso le doy las 5.Hacía tiempo que no me encontraba con dos protagonistas que me resultaran tan perfectos. Ay Gideon!!!! Ay la Bestia!!! cómo me ha gustado!!! Algunos momentos divertidísimos. También algunos secundarios de lujo...MARAVILLOSO
She literally gets herself into so much trouble over these fossils; over 20 times throughout the book and it's completely stupid.
She was supposed to seem like a headstrong character but she was actually, just stupid and rash.Gideon was a likeable enough.
I literally only know one thing about her; she likes fossils.
Like you have no idea every other page she talks about fossils.
Like I dont even want to hear about fossils for the next month!Oh!
I loved when we switched to what Gideon was thinking about, because she annoyed me.I did like one thing though.
A very amusing, entertaining HR read. The heroine annoyed me a bit at first, but then I warmed up to her and ended up really enjoying the book.
Titles are one word, and cover is one-colored too, but in different shades and featuring an object.The title and characters were a little forgotten to me, however, the story and plot are etched in my cranium.As I flip the pages, I begin to become immersed in a different world, pleasant and achingly familiar, however I do not drown, for romances as sweet as this could sustain my survival.Bones and fossils.
Bones and fossils do not scare her.
Has gained reputation of "Beast of Blackthorne Hall".
Except Harriet.Harriet and Gideon are an odd couple.
A delightful book!I laughed at Harriet's reasoning and her explanations! :)It was wonderfully written!I felt pity for Gideon - he didn't have a chance! LOLThe mistery part of the story is filmsy, but it gave their love story a nice touch!I don't know why I haven't read this author before! I will correct that ASAP!
There was a good deal I liked about this book.
Even though early on he's all 'I've forgotten what love is', you can tell he cares for Harriet a lot and will quickly grow to love her.
The sex scenes, while not always as descriptive as I would have liked, were hot.My main problem was the heroine.
Then she was always telling Gideon to stand down and let every offense slide.
I didn't really care either way.
#RitaJACKlo he disfrutado tanto, me he divertido tanto, que tengo que darle las 5 sí o sí. Los protagonistas me han parecido redondos, tan distintos entre si y qué momentos mas divertidos me han dado.
Ha sido mi primera experiencia con Amanda Quick así que iba a ciegas total.
Sin embargo, he tenido mucha suerte con la elección del libro porque me ha dejado encantada de la vida.Me han gustado mucho ambos personajes, con Gideon es que no se puede más de 🔥💦y Harriet está algo loca pero ambos me han hecho disfrutar la lectura mucho más de lo que me esperaba.
Incluso los secundarios me han gustado mucho también.El argumento me ha parecido muy original y divertido, y otra cosa muy buena a destacar son los momentos de humor que nos regalan los protagonistas.
Me apetece mucho seguir leyendo a esta autora, así que seguiré el reto con otro de sus títulos.
Well, well, well. Amanda Quick... Gideon & Harriet were the couple I never knew I could hope for! They surprised me at every turn...- When I read, I always think I know what's going to happen next. Hero's nemesis corners heroine in the library - of course the hero is going to walk in and his insecurities will get the better of him. Cue ensuing drama and pain. Hero is the target of cruel gossip about how he treats women - of course the heroine is going to believe it. Cue ensuing pain and dram
Gideon & Harriet were the couple I never knew I could hope for!
They surprised me at every turn...- When I read, I always think I know what's going to happen next.
It was spectacular to read.- Harriet is fantastic.
Over dinner, I actually wanted to discuss fossils and I almost googled Upper Biddleton to see if dinosaurs were discovered there.
"We shall both defend you with every drop of Applegate's blood."
It's totally a dinosaur.I haven't read a couple like this before.
This book makes me so happy.
May Contain Spoilers!4.5 stars!
I really enjoyed this:)I loved this couple.
I absolutely loved Harriet she had me laughing.
I loved how she didnt judge and how she never once doubted him!Gideon was such a sweet man in his own way!
Yes he was stubborn at times but never long with Harriet!
I felt his beauty and love for her even though he didnt at first.
loved the fossil concept.That has always fascinated me!
safety H was engaged before and he thought he loved/cared for her but he didnt!
H didnt seem like a manwhore at all .
wowwwwww...vaya protagonistas y vaya diálogos.....Hace tiempo que no encontraba una pareja tan estupenda....no se si 4* o 4.5. Maravillosa.....En histórica hace tiempo me cuesta llegar a 5....pero esta no se no se....El rollo algunas veces de los fósiles quizá le resta
Thus, when she discovers that smugglers are using her beloved caves for their nefarious schemes, she never thinks twice of summoning Gideon Westbrook, the local landowner and the man everyone calls the Beast of Blackthorne Hall.
With his scarred visage and lecherous reputation, Gideon spurns society, but something about Harriet draws him in and soothes his tormented soul.
Yet to be together, Harriet and Gideon will have to face society and evade the clutches of a sick and twisted mind determined to destroy them both.
Harriet and Gideon's romance is wonderful.
The minor mystery only heightens the intensity of the romance as Harriet is able to look past external appearances to the real man beneath Gideon's stoic façade.
While the plot held my attention (hell, the promise of a brooding alpha asshat and a hot sex scene at some point in a book can hold my attention these days), it was the "Romance Novel Guide to Paleontologists" that totally did it for me.First we have the descriptions of paleontologists: "A fossil collector will resort to anything when he gets desperate."And a warning about the dangers of other "professionals", which is surprisingly accurate given some of the stories I've heard over the years: "I can tell you, sir, that there are those who would steal my fossils and claim them as their own discoveries without so much as a flicker of remorse."Coupled with delightful character references that perhaps explain why I'm still single: "He wondered if it was the lack of an inheritance that had kept her unwed or if her evident enthusiasm for old bones had put off potential suitors.
Absolutely wonderful! This is one of my favourites of A. Quick's. A lovely beauty and the beast them with every part of the story hitting the mark.Lovely
4'5 estrellitas *.*
Readers find out quickly about St. Justin’s nasty past with many blaming him for the suicide of one of the local young girls who St. Justin was engaged to at one time.Harriet and Gideon were wonderful together.
Gideon hides from them thinking that they would prefer it if he were dead, and his older, more handsome brother were still alive.I love the fact that Harriet is so protective of Gideon and not once, but twice goes after anyone that calls St. Justin a Beast.
I have an issue, especially with HRs. I don't like cartoonish characters or caricatures and I can't stand TSTL heroines or overly quirky ones to the point that their quirkiness messes around with the historical credibility of the character and the story in general.
This was a nice book and I would definitely recommend it, especially to fans of authors like Tessa Dare (which, unfortunately, I'm not any more), but I'm hearing this is the best Amanda Quick has to offer.
And this is truly not meant to discourage anybody from reading this as it was a good book.
I've seen this listed as a fave on many lists and thought I'd give it a go. I like Amanda Quick but have never been overly wowed by her work. The dialogue is often clever and witty and I've enjoyed that but for the most part the stories tend to sound about the same. Something about this novel really grabbed me though. I can see how it would be a fave with her fans and I'm glad I finally got to read it.
Quick was watching Scooby Doo and was all, "I think I'll write a romance novel."The plot is loosely about some pirates using a cave as a super secret location and our leading characters foiling them. Also, the leading lady is a lot like Velma; geeky and unflappable and cool. Staying on the geeky theme of my review the leading man is like Batman in that everyone is afraid of him but really he is just a pussy with mommy issues.
(Yeah I'm a crazy person)So Ravished was my first beauty and the beast story and as you can tell I think of this book as a special one.The characters of this (spelling amazing) story is Miss Harriet Pomeroy and Gideon Westbrook, Viscount St. Justin.Harriet - one of my favorite female characters of all time.
So this review is long, but this story is one of my favorites so you'll forgive me.Happy ending was meant to be;When Gideon put the squalling infant into Harriet’s arms, she smiled ruefully.“I fear that between us we have created the true Beast of Blackthorne Hall, my lord,” Harriet said ruefully.
#RitaJACK 4 estrellitasLibro muy entretenido con unos personajes con carácter. Uno, marcado por un pasado doloroso y apartado de la sociedad, y otra, una solterona acostumbrada a hacer su voluntad. Diálogos y situaciones divertidas con unos secundarios de lo más peculiares en un planteamiento y resolución muy de la Quick.
This was quite different from other historical romance books I'd read.No super beautiful lady.No handsome man and bla bla blaSo it was very intriguing for me.and I was wondering why didn't I give it five stars? 🤔
(See my lists for some really good ones.) I found the plot contrived and the story boring.
It tells the story of Harriet Pomeroy, a Rector's daughter who isn't really interested in marriage as her consuming interest is fossils and geology.
She sends for the earl's only son, Viscount St. Justin, to come to her aid and take care of the thieves who are interfering with her plans to dig out some old fossil tooth.
When the thieves return for their loot, St. Justin captures them but in an action to save Harriet, the two end up trapped by the tides in the caves all night where they make love (not a seduction, not a rape, just two consenting adults).
Overall rating: 4.5 Fossil Hunting stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ NO (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[Intimate pasts: (view spoiler)[ Gideon (hero): Honestly, all I know is that he wasn't a virgin. His past really isn't mentioned at all - other than that he was engaged 6 years ago and the aftermath of that. I am only assuming it might have been that long since he's been with a woman. Harriet (heroine): Is a virgin (hide spoi
Overall rating: 4.5 Fossil Hunting stars!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ NO  (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ No  (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[Intimate pasts: (view spoiler)[ Gideon (hero): Honestly, all I know is that he wasn't a virgin.
Harriet (heroine): Is a virgin  (hide spoiler)]Push/pull: (view spoiler)[ I would have to say none  (hide spoiler)]OM/OW drama: (view spoiler)[ None  (hide spoiler)]HEA: (view spoiler)[ yes - very cute, but I could have used more!
(hide spoiler)]My review:This was light and sweet with very little drama or angst.
I loved how she was geeky with her fossil discoveries and how Gideon just did what he could to oblige her.
