https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/847168.A_View_from_the_Bridge
Miller wrote over three dozen stage plays in his career and this one is considered to be in the top four or five. It first premiered unsuccessfully on Broadway in 1955 as a one act play. So Miller rewrote it as a two act play which premiered in London's West End in 1956. It's a tragic play set in 1950's New York City in an Italian American neighborhood in view of the Brooklyn Bridge. It's a story of family, love, jealousy, prejudice, immigration, all themes that still ring familiar with todays audiences.
مسرحية مشهد من الجسر لآرثر ميللرمتوفرة بالعربية على هيئة كتاب صوتي فقطمن أرشيف الإذاعة المصريةhttps://archive.org/details/P2-dra-Vi...
Eddie tells Catherine that Rodolpho just wants to marry her to become a citizen.....For me this play raises a question,Why someone would be generous?is it something he cant control,he is born to be soAnd is happy that he helped others and need nothing from them…Or is it because he can be proud that he has done good.and expecting other to appreciate it,would this person still be generous, when he wanna all the time hear how much those others are grateful for what he had done….And in return obey his orders even if they are not convinced…A symbolic action…Marco challenges Eddie to lift a chair by one its legs with only one of his arms.
Universal themes of family, guilt, loyalty, sexual attraction, jealousy - and love - in a powerful story about illegal immigration that still resonates to our time 60 years later.Miller's finest play.
1950s.Lawyer Alfieri (our narrator) confides to listeners there are cases where he can only watch as they run their bloody course.Longshoreman Eddie Carbone lives with his wife Beatrice and her orphaned niece, Catherine, in a Brooklyn tenement.
Eddie's increasing suspicion and jealousy of Rodolpho's developing relationship with Catherine ('he ain't right, he cooks, he sings, he makes dresses') eventually leads to betrayal and a tragic confrontation.
Miller made a pretty penny by playing the parenting card."Most people ain't People," says Eddie Carbone.
Δεύτερο θεατρικό έργο του Άρθουρ Μίλερ που διαβάζω φέτος (αλλά και γενικά), μετά το κλασικό και πολυδιαβασμένο "Ο θάνατος του εμποράκου" που διάβασα τον Φεβρουάριο, μπορώ να πω ότι και αυτό μου έκανε πολύ καλή εντύπωση.
Πρόκειται για ένα έργο διαχρονικό και καλογραμμένο, λιτό και ρεαλιστικό, γεμάτο αλήθειες και ανθρώπινα πάθη.
Η όλη πλοκή κινείται με σταθερούς ρυθμούς και κορυφώνεται με μια κάποια ένταση μέχρι το τραγικό τέλος.
Η γραφή είναι πολύ καλή, με φυσικούς διαλόγους και κάποιες λίγες περιγραφές των διαφόρων σκηνικών.
Ευχαρίστως θα έβλεπα μια θεατρική παράσταση βασισμένη σ'αυτό.
It was only while half the way through this that I realized that I had actually read this once before, whilst in school.
I can remember detesting this after my first read as it felt like a pointless story that took the reader nowhere.
My second read has unveiled so much that I missed the first time!
Perhaps it was my lack of maturity, but I definitely did not appreciate the complexities that were packed into this short tale.
The nuances of human emotion and the focus on the human condition are so expertly and artfully dissected here that I can fully see why this has earned its status as a timeless classic.
Being true to what you feel and fight for yourself, doing whatever you want and what's best for you without considering the expense of others, yes is quite admirable but to a certain limit; because people must act halfway to preserve the rules of community and the nature of law, you cannot go rob a bank to give it to the poor (like Robin Hood)because you think it's right morally to share the money to everyone because at the same time it's legally wrong.
The way the longshoremen laugh at Rodolpho when Eddie talks to them about him, their 'snikering' especially, very clearly sheds light on this matter.
The fact that Rodolpho has mastered the arts, which are generally associated with women by his society, make him an object of dishonourable insults, especially at the hands of Eddie.Another rather strange undertone that I came across was that of disregard following the very first encounter.
The very idea that Catherine knows what is going on and yet she decides to let it go on, even sometimes unintentionally fuelling the already blazing fire in Eddie's heart, makes one wonder what game is the woman playing.
A View from the Bridge, describes the upheaval in the home of Eddie Carbone, a career longshoreman who lives with his wife, Beatrice , and her niece, Catherine , who has just been offered a secretarial job when the play begins.
Marco, who has come to America to send money to his wife and three hungry kids, is hardworking and respectful, so he and Eddie get along fine.
This is still just...the best play.
Trying to put my thoughts on it into words is essentially impossible, but I'll try anyway: to me, this is the text on American masculinity and violence, on the deep-seated effects of homo- and xenophobia, and of the necessity of an empathetic justice system.
Seeing A View from the Bridge live is one of the greatest experiences of my life, one that I will hold onto for a long, long time, but the experience of reading the play, too, and digesting Miller's incisive stage directions, use of dialect, and the deep compassion he has for his flawed characters is one I savor as well.
Sharing this play with my students has been such a gift.
شخصیت اصلی نمایش ادی کاربن ، باربری ایتالیایی آمریکایی است که با همسرش بتریک و خواهرزاده ی یتیم او، کاترین زندگی می کنند.
ادی بهترین زندگی را که در توانش باشد برای او فراهم کرده و در مقابل، کاترین هم عشق و اعتمادی خالصانه و کامل نسبت به او دارد.
این نگرانی و پریشانی او را به سمت خشونتی سوق می دهد و از تمامی اخلاقیاتی که قبلا به آن پایبند بوده دور می کند.در پرده اول نمایش، کاترین را می بینیم که تمایل زیادی به مورد توجه واقع شدن از جانب ادی دارد.
A terrifying and tragic play about family dynamics, immigration, law, and the denial of your own sins. I read and saw the play in 2010 when I was actually working on immigration law so I could relate to the aspect of how harsh the law is on both documented and undocumented immigrants.
¿Y el título qué tiene que ver con la historia?
I was not ready for the ending and how much I related to the protagonist. It's a little creepy but in a sweet 'I've been brainwashed' kind of way.
Along with Of Mice And Men and King Lear, I was required to read A View From The Bridge for school so my views towards it were perhaps already a little tainted before I started it, as there were other books I would have preferred to have been reading.The play follows Eddie Carbone, a family man of Italian descent living in New York with his wife Beatrice and her niece, Catherine.
No matter how annoying Eddie was, the character I disliked the most was Catherine.
There was very little in it that stood out, not the characters, the language or the story itself.
Arthur Miller is quickly becoming a favorite.Again, it is impossible to fully appreciate A View from the Bridge if you haven't seen it performed.
After all, a play is written for that exact reason, to be performed.
I watched a screening of A View from the Bridge performed at the Young Vic, directed by Ivo van Hove.
My favorite thing about this play is the amazing character development.
By the end of it, the characters have completely evolved into other people.
Another thing I like about Arthur Miller, is how he adapts the language to the place that the play is taking place.
The setting of A View from the Bridge is entirely different from that of The Crucible.
Huge props to Miller for tailoring everything (dialect, tone, mood, etc.) to fit the setting and story.
I think this lends an elegance to his plays; drama's trademark short&sweetness pairs well with pure storytelling (as opposed to expounding).I also found A View From the Bridge to be a whole lot more morally ambiguous than The Crucible.
I know I've spent the majority of this review pointing out the differences between The Crucible and A View From the Bridge, but at their cores, they are so wonderfully similar.
Alfieri, an attorney, is the narrator of this play and takes on the role of the Greek chorus, explaining to the audience/reader what is happening and giving a voice to moral and social mores of the time.
He is detached and, as narrator, invites us to take on that view of the action as well.The main character, Eddie Carbone, is cast in the mold of the tragic hero.
Like my man Chekhov, Miller tells his story and lets the readers or audience members decide--or discover--which characters deserve sympathy.
Though Eddie is the tragic hero of the story, it is up to us to judge him; Miller doesn't tell us how we should feel.
Çok pis yaptın.)Oyunun sonunda, adeta narrator edasıyla sunulan avukat, yapmış olduğu yanlışı (Marco'yu göz göre göre salıvermesi) güzel bir savunma mekanizmasıyla, Eddie'nin arkasından tuttuğu "ihtiyatlı yas" diye, vicdani mastürbasyonunu yapmış.
Zaten okuyucu Marco'yu haklı bulacak; bari biri Eddie'nin arkasından tuttuğu yas ile okuyucuyu Eddie'nin durumunu sorgulamaya itsin.Ki itti de...Aslında Eddie, aşkından düşünemeyen, ki aşkını farklı etiketlerle sümenaltı edip görmezden gelen, herkes fark etse dahi kabullenemeyen haliyle biraz sağduyulu yaklaşılmasını en azından edebi çerçevede hak ediyor.
Adaleti sadece Tanrı dağıtır demişti bi de Arthur Miller.Son sahnede, Eddie'nin, aşkının, hayatının ve oyunun son sahnesinde, Catherine'i tamamen kaybettiğini fark etmesiyle kendini bilerek ölüme Marco'nun kollarına salıveriyor.
Arthur Miller's, A View from the Bridge, showed the real life circumstances where a teen growing up goes head to head with their guardian(s).
I liked this because it gives the audience a more of an in depth understanding of the situation involved with the main characters, and how the events unraveled.
However, I also felt that this play in particular was too short and vague with their character development.
Although A View from the Bridge stood out to me, it most likely won't be as rememberable to me as other plays produced by Miller, such as The Crucible.
I know that I missed a lot reading it for the first time round so yes, as I said, a lot of potential for further study!5* As I suspected, I'm enjoying studying this play more than actually reading it!edit 19.05.16: ha it's actually quite hilarious how obsessed I am with this play now.
After seeing the National Theatre Live recording of it from the West End starring Mark Strong et al, I have become so attached to this play.
I can't artciulate my thoughts at the moment because I am so in awe...!
This was a play I have to study for my GCSE English course, which include lots of good literature. I have never before read a play by Miller, nor read a play where I have been uncomfortable throughout my reading experience. I hated absolutely all the characters, excluding Alfieri, which I won't go into now. They all had it coming from them. That is, briefly, why I loved it.
Miller manages to cover immigration, legal theory, sexual obsession, culture clash, homosexual baiting, and marital discord powerfully and subtlety simultaneously. The emotions run high, but the words run over the surface of much deeper conflicts. Masterful.
From BBC radio 3 - Drama on 3:Martin Jarvis directs Arthur Miller's 1955 award-winning masterpiece.
Universal themes of family, guilt, loyalty, sexual attraction, jealousy - and love - in a powerful story about illegal immigration that still resonates to our time 60 years later.Miller's finest play.
Eddie's increasing suspicion and jealousy of Rodolpho's developing relationship with Catherine ('he ain't right, he cooks, he sings, he makes dresses') eventually leads to betrayal and a tragic confrontation.Sound design: Wesley Dewberry and Mark HoldenDirector: Martin JarvisProducer: Rosalind AyresA Jarvis & Ayres Production.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b06h93s1
Arthur Miller touches upon very controversial topics that are shown in today's society.
For example, Immigration, homosexuality, and Gender roles.
Marco and Rodolpho are illegal immigrants that are taken in by Eddie and Beatrice.
Homosexuality, as well as Immigration, is a controversial topic that is continuously being debated on.
Eddie portrays a small minded perception when dealing with gender roles and masculinity.
Eddie questions Rodolpho's masculinity and believes a strong man should be physically strong.
On the other hand, towards the end of he play, the reader may conclude that Eddie's protection over Catherine hurt his family, rather than help it.
I'm not a big reader of plays but my son came home with homework on this play and then asked me to help him with it (homework which was due the next day, so it's fair to say he'd left it until the last moment!) Cue a very quick reading of the play so that we could come up with the answers together (fortunately, it's not very long).
It's also a fascinating read and a tale which is still very relevant in our times.
I'm sure this drama could teach us something about our own times and I'm quite grateful to my son's English teacher for setting him homework and giving me an excuse to read this.

He manages to channel the inner insecurities and fears of his characters so well that it makes the reader feel like he/she knows the character intimately.
He lays bare their psyche and the way they think, and it manages to touch the reader even when they realise the characters are flawed.
There is something raw and visceral in the way he writes which really affects us.
The writing is really well suited for a play.The play deals with the themes of ambition, the American dream and the immigrant experience, jealousy, motive and a host of other ambiguous human emotions that drive the characters and their actions.
Arthur's awesome style of writing and his own unique way of portraying the events , were so obvious through the play particularly in act 2 ..the thing that brought me into the heart of the action ! For a while I thought I was an actress not a reader ... as regard to the characters, the thing I kinda wondered about slightly, they appeared in one part of the play which would be linked to later appearances . However, Miller printed symbols that would be explained later but I'v to make sort of effort to imagine it ..
More crude and yet as intense as some of the work by Tennessee Williams, A view from the bridge tells the story of Eddie Carbone, married to Beatrice.
with them lives their young nice Catherine, and it is clear from the beginning that the relation between Eddie and Catherine goes beyond that of uncle and niece.
He is obsessed with the girl who is now growing up, and she also sees her uncle in a different way.
Eddie is hosting them, since they have no legal papers, and one of them falls in love with Catherine.
It is a beautiful play about power, family, love that becomes obsession.
