https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111185.Physics_and_Philosophy
He's also wrong about a few things, but only in the light of 50 years' worth of further scientific investigations.I also don't know who the intended audience is; he assumes quite a bit of knowledge of both physics and metaphysics - certainly too much of the former for a non-physicist audience now or then and too much of the latter for present-day non-philosophy students.Probably the only really valuable insight I got from the book was the point that General Relativity isn't a limiting case or approximation of (or to) any other physical theory: it famously can't be integrated into any current quantum theory but it can't be derived from any other classical theory either, not can any other classical theory be derived from it: It just stands there in majestic aloofness.
অসাধারণ। হয়তো তেমন কিছুই বলে না, হয়তো পলাতোরে নিয়া বলা কিছু কথা একটু পরলাপের দিকেই গেছে, কিনতু কোপেনহযাগেন ধারার বযাখযা সমপরকে হাইজেনবারগের সপষট অবসথান জানা গেলো। দেখা গেলো ওই আমলের পদারথবিদদের পড়াশুনাটা নেহাত কম ছিলো না, তাই চলে আসছে পলাতোর টিমীয়াস থেকে শুরু করে কানটের বকরবকর পরযনত। আমি কোয়ানটাম ফিজিকস শিখতে এই বই হাতে নেই নাই, হাতে নিছিলাম হাইজেনবারগ অবাক করে কী না দেখতে। বইটা সফল, অবাক করে নাই, কিনতু মুগধ করেছে। অনতত শেষ অধযায় বাদে বাকীটুকু।
অসাধারণ। হয়তো তেমন কিছুই বলে না, হয়তো প্লাতোরে নিয়া বলা কিছু কথা একটু প্রলাপের দিকেই গেছে, কিন্তু কোপেনহ্যাগেন ধারার ব্যাখ্যা সম্পর্কে হাইজেনবার্গের স্পষ্ট অবস্থান জানা গেলো। দেখা গেলো ওই আমলের পদার্থবিদদের পড়াশুনাটা নেহাত কম ছিলো না, তাই চলে আসছে প্লাতোর টিমীয়াস থেকে শুরু করে কান্টের বকরবকর পর্যন্ত। আমি কোয়ান্টাম ফিজিক্স শিখতে এই বই হাতে নেই নাই, হাতে নিছিলাম হাইজেনবার্গ অবাক করে কী না দেখতে। বইটা সফল, অবাক করে নাই, কিন্তু মুগ্ধ করেছে। অন্তত শেষ অধ্যায় বাদে বাকীটুকু।
And in that regard, Physics and philosophy is a great accomplishment, because we have a chance to get to know the real Werner Heisenberg.
I'm referring to the general climate after the 1st World War. It was a time when people read more, played music together (by and by, Heisenberg was an excellent piano player), and were not afraid to dabble in things that weren't their specialty.
Almost everyone had interests on the side, and pretty substantial ones - like reading philosophy books - and even young people were not shy to discuss their personal thoughts on this or that matter.
والذي انطوى على نتيجة فلسفية عميقة جدًا وهي أن الطبيعة كأنها تخفى علينا أشياء.ثم كانت الطبيعة الاحتمالية للجسيمات الصغيرة، والتي ربما كانت النتيجة الأغرب، إذ كيف يمكن أن يتواجد جسيم في أكثر من مكان في نفس الوقت؟أيضا تأثير المشاهد على الظاهرة (إذ أن الجسيمات تتصرف بشكل ما وأنت لا تراقبها، وتتصرف بشكل آخر وأنت تراقبها)، أفضى لأن يعطي صفة الذاتية للتجربة، وهو ما كان غائبًا في التصور القديم..أينشتاين نفسه رفض هذه النزعة غير الواقعية للتفسيرات الكوانتية، حتى أنه قال تعليقًا على تأثير المشاهد: «إنني أحبذ أن أعتقد أن القمر موجودًا حتى لو لم أنظر إليه».يرى كانط، الفيلسوف الألماني الشهير أن هناك جانبًا في حكمنا على الأمور لا يعتمد على الخبرة الحسية، وإنما هي أحكام قبلية - كما أسماها- موجودة في العقل البشري.
This book uses the proven theories of quantum mechanics and relativity to help break those notions on what reality truly is and it is this aspect of the book that i find most enthralling.
It are these ideas that radically change the basis of much thought ever since the beginning of human history.I recommend this book only if you have at least a rudimentary understanding of some physics and algebra, and if you are open minded enough to question the very core beliefs of reality, because that can certainly be alot to fully grasp.
Otherwise this book can seem very technical when it talks about physics, and strange about philosophy.
Heisenberg the famous Nobel Prize winner takes us through the building up of our current understanding of Quantum Reality and the physics that lead up to this.
He gives a good discussion of the Uncertainty principle of which he is so famous for and how this will impact the future of physics and how we see the world.
I think this makes it interesting to see where he though physics might go, and compare this to the current state.
It makes you wonder what he would have though of the work going on in Geneva, and how he would have looked at some of the physics of today.
شوربختانه افتخار آشنایی و هم صحبتی با جناب نجفی زاده را نداشته ام اما دورادور از فعالیت های بنیاد ایشان آگاه شده ام.
می دانم که پروژه بزرگی پیش رو دارند.
این پروژه شامل ده ها عنوان ترجمه از کتاب های فلسفی است و انتظار این است که مجموعه ای مرجع باشد برای علاقمندان و پژوهشگران فلسفه در زمینه فلسفه مدرن و پسامدرن.
امیدوارم این پروژه به نتیجه و فرجام شایسته اش برسد.
اما درباره این کتاب!
از دید من خواندنش برای علاقمندان به فلسفه یک ضرورت است.
این کتاب بیانگر زمینه های شکل گیری یکی از جریان فکری در فل
این پروژه شامل ده ها عنوان ترجمه از کتاب های فلسفی است و انتظار این است که مجموعه ای مرجع باشد برای علاقمندان و پژوهشگران فلسفه در زمینه فلسفه مدرن و پسامدرن.
از دید من خواندنش برای علاقمندان به فلسفه یک ضرورت است.
این کتاب بیانگر زمینه های شکل گیری یکی از جریان فکری در فلسفه است که از آغاز سده بیستم به این سو در اروپا و امریکای شمالی پا می گیرد.
‏خواننده می تواند یک دگرگونی بنیادین در روش اندیشه ورزی پیش از سده بیستم و پس از آن را دریابدای کاش این کتاب پیش از انتشار به دست یک تیم ویراستاری سپرده می شد.
Heisenberg’s discerning comments about the future are not surprising given the intricate attention he pays to contemporary and historical conditions through contextualizing quantum mechanics in relation to everything from Einstein’s relativity—Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle rebuts Einstein’s notion that probability cannot be expressed in physical reality—to atomic weaponry to Western philosophical thought (Descartes, Berkeley, and Kant).Heisenberg relates quantum theory to the first conceptions of atomic science, starting with Thales, who says that water is the fundamental substance of reality.
Il vero problema è che l'interpretazione dei risultati è così lontana dal nostro sentire comune che si cerca più o meno consciamente di riportare tutto alla sana meccanica classica.
Heisenberg non è d'accordo, e ha scritto questo libro proprio con lo scopo di mostrare perché i quanta non possono essere studiati con il paradigma non solo scientifico ma anche filosofico dei due millenni e mezzo precedenti.
Diciamo che Heisenberg spiega ben chiaramente che il modo in cui eravamo (siamo?) abituati a comprendere il mondo fisico non funziona più nel caso dei fenomeni quantistici; ma non pensate di trovarci un nuovo modo per leggerli che non sia quello di seguire le formule matematiche e fidarsi di esse :-)
I have to ignore many passages to have a holistic impression of what he's arguing about.Based on what I understand, I would give this book another name: "Language and Dispute: the evolution of human knowledge".
I would say it's more about language and reality rather than physics and philosophy.
The use of language is stabilized by the connection between words, but what a word itself is representing is very unstable (alright..uncertain if we like).
Apparently, among these three giants of quantum physics, there was a very *uncertain* representation of events by the word "religion" or "God".
Tuy nhiên, có quá nhiều thuật ngữ và ngôn từ của vật lý và quá ít chất triết học trong quyển sách này, do đó, sẽ là một cuốn sách khá khó đọc cho dân ngoại đạo.
Tuy nhiên, phần triết học ít ỏi trong sách lại không hề là một chủ đề khiêm tốn chút nào, nhất là khi nó gần như là một khẳng định cho quan điểm của tôi về khoa học, tôn giáo và tất nhiên, triết học.
Đột nhiên tôi thấy mình tiến thêm một bước gần hơn với chân lý, sau khi đọc xong quyển sách này.
This is really a book about physics that only lightly touches on philosophy.
A good reason to read it would be to understand why it is that 20th century physics totally changed the world, something that I think is generally forgotten these days in spite of our (ab)use of technology, the prodigal wunderkind of the advances in science over the last 200 years or so.
The thing to remember about Heisenberg's book is that it was written at the height of the Cold War, and therefore beneath the shadow of nuclear weapons...
Heisenberg's style is very indirect and hesitant, kind of surprising considering his prominence in the field.
كتاب قيم و رائع للمختصين في مجال الفيزياء و الهندسة حيث يثبت فيه الكاتب ان التطورات الحاصلة في الفيزياء اظهرت بأن الطبيعة لاتسيروفقا لقوانين (الفيزياء الكلاسيكية) و يناقش افكار الفيزياء الحديثة بطريقة فلسفية و يقارنها ببعض الافكار و التقاليد الاقدم عهدا.من الجدير بالذكر ان الكتاب نشر سنة 1958 لذلك قد يمر على القارئ بعض المعلومات كانت ان ذاك في محل شكوك و تم اثباتها تجريبيا في الوقت الحالي.الترجمه جيدة لكتاب فلسفي علمي يصنع فرقا في طريقة تفكير القارئ تجاه العلوم الطبيعية
عندما تقرأ في هذا الكتاب هناك صفحات تتكلم على مشكلات فلسفية شديدة التخصص و صفحات أخرى تقفز بك في عواصف الفيزياء النظرية ....لابد أن يكون موسوعيا ....
متخصص يأخذ في تخصصه جائزة نوبل ثم يكتب كتاب ليتعلم منه العوام الفلسفة قبل العلم !الكتاب يشبه لحد كبير كتاب ستفين هوكنج a brief history of timeفكلاهما تحدث عن تاريخ العلوم و تأثره بتاريخ الفلسفة و كيف واكبو التطور العلمي في الفيزياء النظرية و في تطبيقاتها ....
كما أنصح به لمثقفي الفلسفة ...
خاصة الفلسفة المادية و النفعية و العملية ...!https://www.google.com.eg/url?sa=i&am...
17:05----------------الكتاب يتكلم بشكل عام عن النظريتين اللتان أحدثتا قفزة في فهمنا للطبيعة، وهما ال
The essence of quantum physics from one of it's founder. Mind blowing..
Werner Heisenberg যেমনটা সবাই জানেন, মডারন ফিজিকসের খুব গুরুতবপূরণ এটি চরিতর। কোয়ানটাম মেকানিকসের সরষটা এবং কোয়ানটাম ফিজিকসের ফাউনডিং ফাদারদের একজন। ফলত, কোয়ানটাম ফিজিকসের দরশন নিয়ে এই বইটিতে কিছু ফারসট হযানড আইডিয়া আছে। রিলেটিভিটি ও কোয়ানটাম ফিজিকসের মত আপাত-অযাবসারড তততবগুলো কীভাবে মানুষের দৃষটিভঙগি বদলে দিয়েছে এবং সেই বদলটা সাধারণের ভাষায় মোটামুটি বুঝিয়ে দিয়েছেন। তারসাথে উঠে এসেছে ফিজিকসের ফানডামেনটাল বিষয়গুলো নিয়ে বিভিননযুগের দারশনিকদের ভাবনা, ভাষা ও বিজঞানের মিথষকরিয়া ইতযাদি।
Werner Heisenberg যেমনটা সবাই জানেন, মডার্ন ফিজিক্সের খুব গুরুত্বপূর্ণ এটি চরিত্র। কোয়ান্টাম মেকানিক্সের স্রষ্টা এবং কোয়ান্টাম ফিজিক্সের ফাউন্ডিং ফাদারদের একজন। ফলত, কোয়ান্টাম ফিজিক্সের দর্শন নিয়ে এই বইটিতে কিছু ফার্স্ট হ্যান্ড আইডিয়া আছে। রিলেটিভিটি ও কোয়ান্টাম ফিজিক্সের মত আপাত-অ্যাবসার্ড তত্ত্বগুলো কীভাবে মানুষের দৃষ্টিভঙ্গি বদলে দিয়েছে এবং সেই বদলটা সাধারণের ভাষায় মোটামুটি বুঝিয়ে দিয়েছেন। তারসাথে উঠে এসেছে ফিজিক্সের ফান্ডামেন্টাল বিষয়গুলো নিয়ে বিভিন্নযুগের দার্শনিকদের ভাবনা, ভাষা ও বিজ্ঞানের মিথষ্ক্রিয়া ইত্যাদি।
Mulle tundub, et ma sain umbes 1/5-st aru.
Чудова книга. І той вишуканий фінішний захід на широкі висновки. Велична споруда з сотнею вікон і тисячами сходів, увінчана тендітною і вишуканою скульптурою-алегорією поступові людської думки, з двома опорами - прямоходяча, з душею, відкритою до нових запитань, пошуків і відповідальної дії.Якби це був інстаграм - тут доречно було б завершити тегом #wishiknewthatguy)
كتاب مُهمّ جِدّ.حاول فيه هايزنبرغ أن يربط بين الفيزياء -خاصة الحديثة- والفلسفة.قام هايزنبررغ بكتابة تقدِيم تارِيخي لنظريّة الكمّ وبشرح مُستضيف حولها وبإعطاء التّفسِير الكوبنهاجني لها، كما ركّز كثِيرا على شرح النّظريّة النّسبية لآينشتاين...
كان من المُهمّ أن يقُوم بشرح النّظريّتين لكي يفهم القارِئ الفُصول التّي ربط بِها الفيزياء بالفلسفة.بالنّسبة للفُصول المُرتبطة بالفلسفة كانت -برأيي- هي الأهم.الفصل4: نظريّة الكم وبدايات النّظرية الذّريّة.تحدّث فيه عن مفهوم المادة والذّرة في الفلسفة اليونانيّة واقتِراب تصوّراتها بشكل كبير مع علم الطّبيعة الحديث.الفصل5: تطوّر الأفكار الفلسفيّة بدءا من دِيكارت بالقياس إلى الوضع الجدِيد في نظريّة الكم.هذا الفصل مُهمّ جدّا، ركّز فيه على التّاثير المُتبادل بين الفيزياء والفلسفة الحديثة، وقام بنقد التّقسيم الدّيكارتي...
Heisenberg speaks across disciplines to convey something of the implications of new discoveries in physics for human thought and life more generally.
In so doing, he has provided a quite readable and engaging introduction to the field of quantum physics.
Of particular interest is Heisenberg's discussion of the relationship between the discoveries of quantum physics and the world as it is perceived in classical physics and in everyday observation.
The final two chapters, discussing the implications of quantum for our ways of observing, understanding, and communicating as well as for the future of human relationships well make this book worth the investment of cognitive power.
Very well written book, though the only issue is the incompleteness due to new updates within science that occur after the book has been published.
It's a book about how changes found in modern physics gives a paradigm change to the understanding of philosophy.
კარგად დაძველებული წიგნია.ისტორიულ ამბავში მაინც საინტერესოა და ზოგი ნაწილი ისედაც კარგია.
Gives a review of the progress of physics in the 20th century, and explains the consequences of the new ideas. Also, he writes about the relationship between physics, chemistry, biology and religion.
Introduction--Physics and Philosophy
Since we actually apply this method, the law of causality is `a priori' and is not derived from experience.13) What Kant had not foreseen was that these a priori concepts can be the conditions for science and at the same time can have only a limited range of applicability.
If one tries to rescue Alexandrov's `objective effect' by saying that `in reality' the plate is blackened at a given point after the interaction, the rejoinder is that the quantum mechanical treatment of the closed system consisting of electron, measuring apparatus and plate is no longer being applied.17) Copenhagen interpretation by the introduction of the observer.
Who, better than Werner Heisenberg, could more accurately describe the new insights - and challenges - offered by modern science, and particularly quantum theory, to philosophy and religions?
Even though this was written during the beginning of the cold war, it is incredibly insightful.The author pays respect to the amazing insights of a few Greek philosophers, who, thousands of years ago, imagined how the universe might be made of standard building blocks, either the atoms of Democritus - we are well past that - or even the "potentia" of Aristotle, which are not unlike the probability wave functions from quantum theory.The most intriguing part is his analysis of science looked at from its mathematical part: every ontological object we have analysed so far can be described by mathematics, so that reality seems to identify ever more with it.
For example, the concept of space and time (and its relation to matter) is independent of the observer, which would be ontological in nature since the subject matter of scientific knowledge is independent of the perceiver (consequences of relativity).
To find the object of scientific knowledge one must go to the theoretical assumptions of a physical law; the concept of probability and chance figures into the definition of the state of a physical system (due to statistical nature of things, and also use of statistical analysis in understanding the results of an experiment) in both classical and quantum physics.
The format of the book (without mathematical equations or notation) suggests that it was meant for a layman or someone not well-versed in quantum mechanics.
However, almost a century since its discovery, quantum mechanics is now well-established and no longer a mystery.
Hence reading this book in 2018 seems, at times, to be too tedious.
But my viewpoint is perhaps biased by the fact that I have studied the mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics, and hence, some of facts seemed over-elaborated.
