https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/285224.Masques
I think she could have been a bit more original than Aralorn.If this had not been written by Patricia Briggs, I probably wouldn't have finished it.
I read the excerpt for the sequel, Wolfsbane, and it looks like some of my issues I mentioned are gone (except the name, she really can't change her main character's name).
Briggs is a fantastic writer now, and I look forward to what she can do with these characters with her improved skills.Follow my reviews at Urban Fantasies Read and Reviewed.
The author, Patricia Briggs, added a foreward to this Audible.com re-release of the book.
In it, she described how it was her first book and that she had the opportunity to edit it for re-release (in preparation for turning it into a series).
Indeed, there is meat on the bones of this story that prevent it from being dismissed as mere popcorn or of little value.I found Aralorn, the chief protagonist, youthfully optimistic and engaging, for all her claimed age and experience.
Aralorn is delightful and her relationship with Wolf deeply moving.
In fact, the heart of the book, and the source of its considerable charm, is this relationship between Aralorn and Wolf.
According to Briggs she couldn't tweak too much without re-writing the whole thing, but she did add a bit of polish and perhaps a chapter to the beginning.I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed it.
She's set apart from most everyone by being half-human, half-shapeshifter.The hero, Wolf, is a classic tortured anti-hero who evolves through his love of the heroine.Not a terribly original or polished story, but it was action-packed and I enjoyed this glimpse into Briggs' early writing career and what I'm convinced is the medieval prototype of Mercy Thompson.
She was preparing to release the second book in the series and wanted to reissue the first, but when she went back and looked over it, it was a bit cringe-worthy.
(I've been reading more nonfiction lately, and I wanted something a bit lighter).The book opens with her meeting Wolf for the first time, then skips ahead about four years, to her involvement with the ae'Magi.
Hey look, I read a novel! This was a solid 3.5.I already liked Patricia Briggs so I figured this wouldn't be awful - which, yay, it wasn't. I liked all of the characters, the world, the story ... but it was missing something. Honestly I think it was just because this was Brigg's first novel and I know she's capable of better.Good stuff, though.
Masques, you see, is out of print.When I first discovered Briggs, I did what I do with any new infatuation: I stalked her through the Internet, found her official website, ran like wildfire through her entire bibliography, snapped up the new titles as soon as they published, and waited patiently for Ace to reissue her first several books that had gone out of print.
An interlibrary loan attempt run through my public library, however, turned up listings for only 10 copies and not one could be sent to me.
Black Wolf, Blue Eyes  ★★★✩ (This is a review of the audiobook.) Nicely narrated by Katherine Kellgren. I had to get used to her, or maybe she just got better, but she was using some kind of a weird “superior” tone at the beginning. Otherwise, her pacing and the inflections are right for the situations. She is good with both male and female voices. As an extra, we get to hear Patricia Briggs’ voice & thoughts for the intro as to why she chose to change some things and not others, since this
As an extra, we get to hear Patricia Briggs’ voice & thoughts for the intro as to why she chose to change some things and not others, since this was her first book, which she has since polished up and republished.As the book blurb says, this is a Fantasy book about Aralorn and Wolf.
She has magic of her own, and I love that she can’t shift into anything exotic, as she’d like, but only ordinary things, like a mouse and a goose.
This book shows the signs of a first book, even with Ms. Briggs’ polishing up, which she admits to.
I think we all guessed some things, but were all still pleased.
The gives plenty of warnings that this is, indeed, a first novel, and that she only did minor polishing to get it ready for a re-printing, but that doesn't change the fact that parts of this are just down-right hard to get through.The first 50-ish pages (after the prologue) are effectively a ginormous infodump, and for the sanity of other readers might be best enjoyed skimmed over.
I think, after hitting the halfway point in the novel, the part that frustrated me the most with the beginning is that the vast majority of those characters introduced really had nothing to do with the rest of the story, so all that time spent introducing them really felt like a waste.The second half was an improvement, and there were some neat plot points.
There I've said it.Now you know that this is going to be biased.You could tell it was an earlier book in that the storytelling was raw.
Still a really good read for two reasons: 1) It's an interesting and light fantasy read that will make you smile/laugh at the dialogue 2) It's Patricia freaking Briggs!Wolf is a scarred and flawed character but he is trying to redeem and find himself along the way.
Wolf is a character that is shrouded in mystery.
We get Wolf's emotional POV while the plot moves along through Aralorn.
This is Briggs' first novel, which has been out of print for ages and ages but was recently reissued.
She added an introduction that makes it pretty clear that she finds the novel kind of embarrassingly bad and agreed to the reissue because of fan demand and not because she actually thought the book deserved it.
So I was kind of wary going in, especially since I'd read a couple of her other novels set in this world and found them kind of meh--I figured the very first would be even worse.So, considering my low expectations, I was actually pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed Masques.
So although the plot shows little originality on the outside, once you get into the nitty gritty of it, there were many enjoyable aspects of the world-building and characters to savour.
As you don't find out exactly who is is until after the first quarter of the book (And I try never to mention things past that point in reviews lest I spoil the plot for you) I won't be able to say too much about him, other than that I liked him a lot, and was happy with the progress he made within this story.
Funny thing about this book - hard to find it in libraries and book stores, there aren't many hard copies available - but you can find it for free online.Lady Aralorn is a shapeshifter who works as a spy.
Aralorn uses her wit and simple gestures to show Wolf she cares or to calm him down - and that was one of the reason i read this till 4 this morning.
The villain in this book in an archimage who has everyone's affections and is described as charming and full of laughter.
Второстепенните герои не са от най-запомнящите се, но за сметка на това Аралорн няма да я забравя скоро.
Или по-скоро точно заради това.
Мога да си го представя дори наисуван точно като от японска анимация :D За сметка на това противникът му съвсем не е очакваният бял маг, даже напротив.
Светът за който се води битката е вплетен в същото това леко и ненатрапчиво повествование, което напомня на приказка и до края на книгата се оказа, че го познавам достатъчно добре като за гост, без да помня да съм го обикаляла с гид.
Ако това е най-слабата книга на аворката, значи няма да остана разочарована от което и да било от нейните произведения.
On the other hand, it's interesting to track an author's progress from early books through later ones, and I doubt Briggs is in any danger of losing readers because of this one.I'm not sure why I read this, except that I had some notion of getting the background for Wolfsbane, which has been recommended to me.
He's totally evil, totally sadistic, and has enough magical power to keep an entire kingdom believing that he's a wonderful guy, plus he's incredibly beautiful and wealthy--is there a word for a Mary-Sue of Evil?I'm not going to hold Masques against its immediate sequel, Wolfsbane; seventeen years is a long time in the life of an author.
Still, Masques hasn't made me eager to read the next one.
2.5 starsOne of Briggs's earliest works, which sadly shows, but it was an interesting concept and I liked the characters tremendously.
This earlier book actually feels more emotional and rich in feeling, as if we are closer to what is happening.Aralorn and Wolf are quite perfect for one another, but I love how simple and quiet the two are with one another and about their feelings toward the other.Enjoyable and worth two hours of reading:)Warnings: Villain engages in some disturbing acts of violence, torture and sexual abuse.
Forced another character, his son, to assist him for some time in these acts.
I can't believe this is her first book. Yes, she had done some minor changes, but still it is impressive. I have read the first works of many of my preferred authors, but even if I could see the small roots of the future talent, the books in itself weren't that good. Masque on the contrary was a damn good book, even if not perfect on details. A light fantasy that's worth reading.
2.5 starsThis was Patricia Briggs' first published book, and unfortunately it very much shows. You can see some glimpses of the style she will fully develop later on, which I love in her Mercy Thompson series. I'll read the sequel to this book, which was written 17 years later, but I think I'll pass on the two other standalone books she wrote in this same 'world' but with different characters. I love Briggs, but not that much haha!
Back when author Patricia Briggs was young, she wrote a story, Masques, about a feisty sword-wielding woman and the wolf / man she comes to love.
Typos, plot holes, glaring issues with dialogue, and other problems are quite common, even in the books of well known authors.
Again, to avoid spoilers, one man is speaking and says,"Tell my why you are come if not it be not out of ..."Then the lead character thinks: "Something was wrong, but she couldn't figure out just what it was."To me it was that the man was saying "Tell my why" - never mind the "not it be not".
The edition that I read had later been edited by Briggs, but it was still fairly mediocre.
However, if you're a fan of the Mercy Thompson books, this still might be a worthwhile read, as it contains some of the elements of that series, such as a wolfish love interest and a shape-shifting protagonist.
There's nothing exciting or groundbreaking here, but the elements are varied enough that I got a lot of enjoyment out of them.
There are a lot of scenes where the main character just reads book, and although it advances the plotline, it's not really exciting.
Pretty mediocre in a lot of ways, but with the seeds of later success.
Although the writing quality here is already better than most of what's out there, serious plot holes, unexplained details abound.
The hero is "tortured," can work unheard-of amount of magic, and is more dangerous than any amount of secondary monster creatures.
However, he turns into blubber in front of the arch-villain.
And speaking of the arch-villain...
despite those flaws, this book is still better than many of the crap floating around out there.
I say it's worth a casual read when you have nothing better to do.
A surprising number of reviewers didn't like this, or said something to the effect of, "I'm so glad I read other Patricia Briggs books first or I never would have read another." I just don't get it.
I even enjoyed it as an audiobook, which is really rare for me because I usually can't stand female narrators (sorry ladies, I'm not being sexist, it's just that most women have a hard time mimicking male voices in any believable way, whereas a large number of men have decent falsettos).
Overall, Masques is a piece of extremely entertaining, classic fantasy that stands on its own aside from Briggs' better-known Mercy Thompson series.
Not my favorite of her fantasy books. For those who are fans of her urban fantasy and have never read her fantasy, this may not be the best book to start with. I thought the pacing lagged a bit in spots. But it's still better than a lot of books I've read this year, because it's Briggs, who even at her "not my favorite" is still really darn good.
This was Briggs' first book and it really shows. Also, I do not like her as a writer of high fantasy, and in the future I think I will stick to her urban fantasy novels. If you are thinking about reading this author for the first time, I would start with another book, as I do not think this book is a good representation of her writing.
This was a good book. But I couldn't help but see all the little "first book" flaws because it was a rerelease and the author wrote a foreword pointing it out. I probably wouldn't have noticed them otherwise because it was a good story. I will have to remember not to do that if I ever re release my first book :D
I love Briggs' Mercy Thompson and Anna and Charles books and wanted to give this a try.
Briggs herself says this was not her best book.
Aralorn and her wolf are at the heart of a large problem.
Someone is trying to take over the entire world using magic and Aralorn and her wolf, both shape shifters, are the best bet to stopping what is happening.
Listen to what Briggs says about the book before you start.
It makes it easier to enjoy the story and over look the fact that the writing is not the best.
Being a Mercy Thompson fan, I've read all of Briggs' books and it's a delight to read her first work. You can totally see how her talent has advanced since then. This is still a good story and I really enjoyed the characters and world she built. A must for any MT fan!
But what can one mercenary spy and her long time companion but mysterious friend Wolf hope to accomplish against a power so great that it commands monsters and men alike - and turns them into willing slaves and sacrifices?
The world building is pretty sketchy, there's a dearth of the sort of descriptive writing I'm used to in Briggs' Mercy Thompson series, and the plot isn't the most original I've ever read.
In Aralorn, the half-shapeshifter mercenary and spy, there are glimmers of the strength and uniqueness of character that Mercy Thompson commands.
This was a little slower than I like. I usually like books in current time setting. I did like the characters and were rooting for them to the end. Look forward to reading more of her books.
I can point out several juvenile flaws - telling, not showing, overuse of certain words, various deus ex machina moments - but if you temper your expectations, there's no reason why this can't be an enjoyable read.I did laugh at many "classic" parts, such as the heroine being romantically swept away by how hard the secretive, mysterious guy was trying to open himself up to her: "She could almost see the effort he made to open up to her, this man who was so private.
I also sympathize with Briggs' revisions, because I literally spent the last 9 years rewriting that terrible first story of mine, and at some point it's just so bad that you can't really even try to improve it because there are inherent flaws.
And there are so many little details that combine to form a picture of her - her love of information led to her becoming a spy and is shown later when she catalogs the differences between this folk tale and the version she heard before; she pauses in the clutches of evil to examine stone carvings and figure out their stories.One element I do find tiresome is the constant use of rape.
But you could play a drinking game by counting the number of characters who are threatened sexually or the number of times the villain touches someone inappropriately.The main focus of this story is overthrowing the evil tyrant despite overwhelming odds.
