https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84076.Remember_Me
When I was teen, Christopher Pike was the first author I searched for in the book stores.
When I think about Pike's books, this is the first one that comes to mind.
I know they recently re-released this book, and I think even though it's an old book, it's still relevant to today's teens.
Pike is a master when it comes to understanding the kind of social pressures and relationships of teens.
I always loved his portrayal of different kinds of relationships when I was a teen, and my goal as a writer is to tap into the kind of stories he used to tell.
I loved the absolute SHIT out of Christopher Pike books when I was a teenager.
Ordinarily, I would say this is the best damned thing ever because if ever a character deserved to get murdered for being the actual worst, it's Shari.
Shari becomes a ghost, determined to solve her own murder.
And honestly, the story behind her murder and the climax of the book?
(view spoiler)[She was murdered by her brother's girlfriend, with whom she was switched at birth.
*I* was in love with *YOU*!!" thing with Peter the Ghost Boy, and I'm honestly surprised I didn't hurl this book across the room.
I read this book more than half of my life ago, but it still haunts me as one of the best books I've ever read. For a thirteen year old girl interested in "the other side", this book was the cat's pajamas. I don't remember much about it despite the main character Shari's plea not to forget (har har), but I do remember reading it multiple times and feeling a little like I could cry when the book was over. I will always have a soft spot for this book, and for Christopher Pike.
It's nice to know what Regina George would have done if that bus had killed her.
Rating: 4.5/5Remember Me is the story of Shari, and it all begins the night she falls of a balcony.
Everything liked they were actually talking to a spirit when all of a sudden Shari decided to break the connection and walked to the balcony for some fresh air.
Even though it seems like she is not alone in this world between dead and alive she can't leave until she figures out what happened to her.This was a great ghost/murder-mystery story.
It was really hard to figure out how anyone would have killed Shari by their stories.
First off, I must say that I did enjoy the book...at first.((The spoiler actually contains spoilers, you've been warned.))(view spoiler)[ The ending however, well quite frankly it ruined the whole dang book for me!
Yet, when Shari's "parents" find out that Amanda was their real daughter, they go out and get her the best lawyers to get her off for murdering the girl they believed was their daughter for all those years!
Amanda was a psychopathic murderer!
I found the ending too unrealistic.
There are some instances where blood relations should mean less, and this was one of those times.
Remember Me puts the "normal" back into "paranormal" with its main character, an average girl murdered and left seeking revenge. This book has its good and bad points but overall I really enjoyed it.
ohhh, a very good book...It starts off with Shari Cooper - the main character - retelling her life from the other side.
She starts off to the night before she went to her friend Beth's party.
The twists were excellent and the story was hard to predict.
Who could have known that Amanda was the real sister of Jimmy and that her and Shari were swapped when they were little?I really love this book.
What more could you ask for?Overall, this story is AMAZING!!Always,keilynn, D.N.
In Christopher Pike's Remember Me, it brought back some good memories of a time when scary stories just had ghosts and a simple storyline-nothing more as according to the cover, at the time released this book was scary as it stated on the cover and when I read it the other day, it was more corny and along similar lines of books that Ive read rather than giving off a scary aura.The novel revolves around the death of Shari, who at a party with people who are supposed to be her friends , she is found dead - fallen off a balcony.
. Prior to her death, Shari and her friends were performing a seance which resulted in Jeff's brother Peter's spirit being awoken.
It was meh.
Honestly, it was my least favorite Christopher Pike book I have read.
I usually enjoy his books but this one did nothing for me.
The plot dragged, I felt there was way too much filler materiel and conversations about a whole lot of nothing.
None of the characters were likable nor was I able to relate in any way.
Frankly Shari annoyed me and that is hard to not like the protagonist.
Even if it is a "I like to hate" type of feeling.
I need to feel SOMETHING.
While it wasn't badly written, I felt no drive.
Rating: 3.5This is so bad it's good!Christopher Pike's teenagers were everything R.L Stine's Fearstreet's teenagers wanted to be but never could be :P
I found this book at walmart and reading the back cover, it sounded like a good read.
It is a reprint of Pikes Remember me, but it is an omnibus, containing the entire trilogy in one.
The first book, Remember me, was real good.
The second book, The return was rather strange.
You have to read it to know what I mean.
The third book, The last story, was pretty boring.
I mean I liked it, the first one a lot, but it got kinda boring and was a bit too weird, with the characters feelings being so, I guess I'll say, Different.
I'm pretty sure I read this for the first time in about 6th grade...and hundreds of times since then.
I haven't read it in years (sold my original at a garage sale I'm guessing), but I realized as I re-read it that I still have huge chunks of it memorized.
Yikes.Happily, I feel like the story still pretty much holds up.
details are fuzzy) starts trying to write some novel and I remember HUGE chunks of said novel appearing in the book.
But this one still makes me happy...like comfort food in book form.
BOOK OF MY CHILDHOOD.
Explaining the appeal of Christopher Pike novels to someone who never read them as a preteen is, I find, much like trying to explain the awesomeness of something like Grease 2 to a 30-something adult who never watched the movie as a child.
The ideas are THERE, if not always well executed, and it's a huge oversight in my opinion when you look at some of the mediocre stuff that's been recycled on the big screen lately.I have no interest in the later sequels to this book though.
I've read this book like years ago...it was a good one !
I have been listening to the podcast Teen Creeps and became interested in Christopher Pike. I wish I had read more in high school, I would have loved his books in high school. Anyway, a fun to read thriller. Though it was strange how Shari said "blasted" all of the time.
Moderate sex references (if they upset you at all).Will appeal to: Everyone who doesn't care for very fast-paced books or romance-centered ones.
First off, RM was published long before "dead girl books" became all the rage.
Shari's story may sound simpler and less glamorous than the most recent ones about girls in the same predicament as hers.
Like most dead girls in YA Lit, Shari was beautiful, popular and rich in life - but the narration doesn't really dwell upon that.
Pondering about it, the real magic of this book is not in the story itself.
So, you know, the real magic in the book comes out of Shari.
One thing I learned from my Christopher Pike obsession was several ways to kill people.
***The more you know***This is the story of a ghost trying to solve her own murder.
She tries to recreate the events of the party that led up to her death, going over and over who was in which room, who had the opportunity to kill her, and who had the motive.That's the basic plot, but there's a lot more going on here.
You get Attending Your Own Funeral, Switched At Birth, Accidental Incest, Flying, Ghosts In Love, Afterlife 101, and more delicious tropes.
What started off as a fairly good concept quickly turned into a downhill story with ridiculous twists and turns that came completely out of nowhere about a shallow, stuck up girl who suddenly has a change in morals after she dies and finds out who killed her.
Probably the most interesting character, Jo, was left out of a large majority of the story.
The plot was fairly decent until about two thirds of the way through when random facts started pouring in that had little to no foreshadowing.
I like the idea of this story. A girl who is murdered and becomes a ghost and tries to find her murderer. I think I would've liked it a lot better if I got to know more about the characters and if the person who murdered the girl (Shari Cooper) had a better motive... It wasn't terrible, I did enjoy reading Shari as a ghost, but I don't think I will continue with the series.
One night Shari and her friends, who are all also rich and attractive, but none of whom have green eyes, throw a party.
Well, after the game takes a scary turn, Shari, who has green eyes, ends up dead, having taken a nosedive off a 4th floor balcony.
Did I mention Shari has green eyes?
Oh...and Shari has green eyes.
Amanda, who is poor and does NOT have green eyes, recently found out about the swap and decided to kill Shari so she could take her rightful place with a rich family and have all the perks that go along with it.
Jimmy doesn't have green eyes either.
The book is, I suppose by its nature, very melancholy at times although it's nearly always deftly handled and manages to even be somewhat moving in places.What holds the book back from greatness are two principal elements: One is that the marquee sequence in the book seems to be the part where Shari wakes up after the accident in her bed and goes downstairs to breakfast, not realizing she's dead or incorporeal.
Throughout her journey she meets up with her old friend Peter, but in the end they both aren't who they seem to be.
I think that the message being sent in this book is that your life may seem perfect but is it truly perfect.
I also think that the message is that people aren't who they say they are.
Shari only thought about how she felt and about how happy she was but she didn't really think about how others felt.
When Shari is watching her friends after the night of her party she discovers the truth of how people saw her.
However, the character of Shari grows throughout the novel as she tells of the story of how she died and the afterlife that awaits her.
The shining point of this novel however is the character of Peter.
He's just the right amount of dry wit for a book that essentially is about suicide and murder and adds a romance to the story that isn't over the top.
Yes this story has it's cheesy moments but I feel they are easily overlooked by the good plot line.
"Remember Me" is an easy read and a good novel for teens.
Even on re-reading the book, I found that I still enjoyed the story as much as I did the first time.
The book tells the story of Shari Cooper who went to a party at a friend's house and woke up the next moring dead.
The police and her friends and family believe that she killed herself but Shari knows different.
With the help of another ghost (an old friend), Shari decides to find out the truth about what happened that night and the identity of who killed her.
Overall this was a good book, and I look forward to reading the other two stories related to this one.
Did you ever read Christopher Pike as a kid?
When I was in 6th grade, my teacher, Ms Gamage set up a book swap in class for our group called the Dweebs (a name i LOATHED) & i got to read all the christopher pike and similar horror/mystery book sale books my parents couldnt afford.
LOVED.
I decided to reread it all these years later, and it didnt disappoint.
If you like teen books, or are a teen, or even a ten year old like I was, read this book.
one morning, shari cooper wakes up dead. she remembers the party where her boyfriend kissed another girl in the hot tub...and she remembers falling from a balcony. but did she jump or was she pushed?! with the help of another dead ghost friend, shari is determined to find out.this book was recently re-released in a fancy new omnibus edition, but i was reading a sweet paperback from 1989. the main character wears slacks and says "he's so neat!" as a compliment. it's pretty awesome. perfect halloween brain-candy.
I remember the first time I read this book.
I was in the fifth grade and all I know is that this book scared me so much that I would read it out in the hallway with the lights on.
This was my very first scary book and I loved it.
This book introduced me to the the likes of R.L. Stine and other Christopher Pike books, however none are as ever good as the first you read.
There were some pretty strange stories out there by those two.
I always loved reading but this book introduced me to a whole other genre.
really this only deserves two stars, but nostalgia is a powerful thing and nothing brings middle school rushing back like a good christopher pike read! in my old age, i am a little shocked that these books, rife with underage drinking and sex not to mention murder, the supernatural and dubious plot lines, were/are so widely read by impressionable tweens. however, all of that is INFINITELY preferable to the twilight-type moralizing tweens are subjected to nowadays.. INFINITELY. oh c pike, how i've missed you!
When I was a teen, many moons ago, I was a Christopher Pike addict.
This was one of the best ones.
I quit reading Pike’s books once they hit a point where it was sequel after sequel.
(Remember Me was fine being a lone book and not the first installment of a trilogy.) This is one of the few “teen” books that I kept once I outgrew that phase.
Twenty years later and I still have it packed away in a box of books that I don’t want to part with because I’ve enjoyed rereading them but don’t have room on my over-packed bookshelves.
I’ve reread it as an adult and it is still enjoyable.
