https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/667213.Farmer_Giles_of_Ham_The_Adventures_of_Tom_Bombadil
If you are looking for a short, humble, fantasy story then Farmer Giles of Ham is your man.
This story is not connected with Lord of the Rings or the Hobbit but does involve creatures common in Middle Earth.
These are presented in a series of poems, some which are included in The Lord of the Rings and some other ones.
They give more scope to the character of Tom Bombadil which is rather interesting.
Personally, I preferred Farmer Giles of Ham to the Adventures of Tom Bombadil as I found the story format more exciting but that's just me as I am not entirely poem compatible.
Borrowed this book from my Grandpa; having never read any Tolkien before I thought that perhaps starting with a couple of small books would be a great introduction to his wonderful imagination.The first half of this book is the story of Farmer Giles of Ham; I loved this!
Such an easy read and brilliantly written.
Again we see how masterful Tolkien was and how much lore he knew of his created world.
Beautiful poems with great narratives, easy to read and best read aloud.I will be reading more from Tolkien.
I enjoyed Farmer Giles of Ham, and The Adventures of Tom Bombadil less so. The Stone Troll and Perry-the-Winkle are quite fun. I really enjoyed the Pauline Baynes illustrations in this edition.
Tolkien's short books:  Farmer Giles of Ham and  The Adventures of Tom Bombadil.
Even in this short volume, Tolkien can't resist epic world-building, with the story being a foundation myth for something else (although set in what would become England, and not connected to Middle-Earth at all).There are some lovely medieval-style "illuminated" illustrations to go along with the story (artist not credited in my edition) which really add to the atmosphere.
I can't say the same about the illustrations with The Adventures of Tom Bombadil though.
It is unfair to review this book simply because it is a compilation of two books: Farmer Giles of Ham and, a separate book, The Adventures of Tom Bombadil, which is in itself a compilation of many different poems, and not all of them are about the title character.
Having read Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings numerous times over the years, I knew two things: 1) I do not like Tom Bombadil and 2) I do not like his poetry.
Also, Giles has several confrontations with a dragon, another precursor to Bilbo's meeting with Smaug in another universe altogether.
Fun background stories and poems for LOTR fans.
This was a book of two very distinct halves for me; the first part, Farmer Giles of Ham, was a wonderful adventure story which felt like a myth from centuries ago, and the second part, The Adventures of Tom Bombadil, was a collection of poetry about various characters in Middle Earth.
I felt similarly towards the poems and songs that were included in The Lord of the Rings.
I loved the first half and disliked the second so I've had to give the book as a whole a middle of the road star-rating, however I would recommend reading Farmer Giles of Ham if you like fairytales or myths.
"To begin with, you should know that Tom was not only "Eldest" (as he says to Frodo) in terms of the characters in The Lord of the Rings, he was also most certainly one of J.R.R. Tolkien's earliest literary creations.
Tolkien's biographer, Humphrey Carpenter, relates that Tom was inspired by a Dutch doll that belonged to the professor's eldest son Michael.
This doll was said to have looked very splendid (it had a real feather in its hat!) but Michael's brother John did not like it and one day stuffed it down the lavatory.
The doll was rescued, and survived to become one of the heroes of the spontaneous stories that were told to the children at bedtime."
I enjoyed this book but it felt like two different books being made to share the same cover, perhaps because each on their own would be too short for publication.
It's inexpensive so worth buying for either the story or the verses.Farmer Giles of Ham is about a farmer who becomes rich with the help of a dragon, and to the annoyance of a king.
If you like The Hobbit you'll enjoy this short story.The Adventures of Tom Bombadil (and other verses from The Red Book) is sixteen poems, the first of which is The Adventures of Tom Bombadil.
A peculiar collection of poems and stories. The first, Farmer Giles of Ham is a fairy-tale adventure set in England in the Dark Ages; the second is a collection of poems from the Shire. They seem to have been published together because they have Tolkein in common, but really The Adventures should either stand alone or be added as an appendix to The Lord of the Rings. There is clearly a lot more to "Tom Bombadil" than meets the eye, as his appearance in Frodo's account and countless folk tales related by generations of Hobbits testifies. So who is he?
"Kowal z Przylesia Wielkiego" to ciepła historia o spełnianiu marzeń, bez względu na to jak fantastyczne one są i ile ma się lat. Czyta się ją szybko i sprawia przyjemność, bowiem daje możliwość poznania kunsztu języka Mistrza Tolkiena. Jest prosty, ale zarazem niezwykle żywy i plastyczny. Opisy krajobrazów czy zwykłych czynności są bogate w szczegóły, kolorowe, harmonijne. Całość na: http://wiedzma-czyta.blogspot.com/201...
Farmer Giles of Ham: Quite an entertaining story about how an ordinary farmer turns - with a lot of luck, into a hero by chasing away a giant. The news spread fast, reaches the King's ears & Giles is ordered to go into battle with the dragon, Chrysophylax.The Adventures of Tom Bombadil:A nice selection of songs, rhymes and poems from The Red Book.
Farmer Giles of Ham was one of my favorite read over and over stories as an adolescent (the poetry in the book I could take or leave). I loved the trickery, the satirical way the usual fairytale was stood on its head....I wonder where my copy is (I need to read it again, and soon)
I loved it! It was so fun to get a deeper look into Tolkien's world, and find elements you already knew from his other stories. Tom Bombadil has always been one of my favorite characters, and though only the first two poems concern him, I was thrilled to learn more about this Eldest wanderer.
I loved the first story. It was cute and adorably written. The short pieces of poetry in the second half are good but it appears only a small amount of them are about Tom Bombadil so I was sightly dissapointed. Still a good enjoyable read that gives more depth to the world Tolkien created.
My parents gave me a boxed set for my birthday, this was in the set. I always remembered it as my tenth, but clearly not as the publisher's date is 1977.At the time I liked this a lot, it reminded me in some ways of the tale of the tailor who got seven in one go.
The best and warmest poets I've ever read!
good for lotr-fans :-)
One of the better collections of Tolkien's stories. Love ol' Tom.
Farmer Giles is a cute little story with not many links to LOTR.Tom Bombadil is a book of poems. It's also quite cute.
Short and sweet and fun to read. What more do you need? Tales that lie at the border of myth and fantasy from a noted master of Mythology.
(kun niels bonde fra bol er læst) Et sødt eventyr
Tom Bombadil - what an amusing chap. Must read for all LOR followers.
Lovely little hero's adventure with funny names.
Farmer Giles of Ham was a really funny little tale. I found I enjoyed it a lot more than The Adventures of Tom Bombadil, which are all poems, some of which I recognised from the Lord of the Rings.
