https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6123316-paideia
The summer before starting at Loyola I spent a lot of time up at grandmother's cottage in SW Michigan.
Excited by the prospect, I stopped by, introduced myself to the head librarian, Ms. Roth, and asked if she needed help setting up.She did.
She agreed.Amongst the gothic romances and condensed books were some treasures, most notably in the fields of classics and ancient history and philosophy.
There was quite a lot.
These, I urged Ms. Roth to retain.Retain them she did--most of them.
Jaeger's and Gomperz' sets being the two greatest treasures of my haul.
از آن کتاب های کم یاب است!! خیلی دلم می خواد بخوانمش و همچنین پیدا کنم و بخرمش!
Paideia: The Ideals of Greek Culture, 3 Volsby Werner Wilhelm Jaeger, Gilbert Highet (translator)4.56 of 5 stars 4.56 · rating details · 45 ratings · 1 reviewEach volume was conceived as an independent unit, [Vol 1--Archaic Greece, The Mind of Athens; Vol 2--In Search of the Divine Centre; Vol 3--The Conflict of Cultural Ideas in the Age of Plato]; taken together, they constitute a monumental integrated survey of the whole Greek cultural tradition in the early & classical periods.
PARREIRAAUTOR(ES): Jaeger, Werner Wilhelm; Parreia, Artur M., trad.PUBLICAÇÃO: Lisboa : Aster, 1979
Jaeger's brilliant insight was to explore the growth of Hellenic culture by emphasizing the role of education. It is a profound perspective that links the earliest Archaic poetry to the sophisticated philosophy of Plato. After reading more than a thousand pages, when one finishes the chapter on Demosthenes and the triumph of Macedonia, one's understanding of Greek civilization hasn't been transformed so much as it has been broadened through a deep synthesis which connects desperate elements into an illuminating whole.
Cuando los americanos ocuparon Leipzig yo estaba estudiando los volúmenes 2 y 3 recién publicados de la obra Paideia de Werner Jaeger — también cosa rara, que esta obra de un «emigrante» escrita en alemán y publicada en una editorial alemana pudiera aparecer en los peores años de la guerra—. ¿Guerra total? Verdad y Método II Pág.387
Ho approfondito solo le sezioni inerenti al tema della mia tesi di laurea, ma credo di poter dire che si tratti di un volume imprescindibile sul tema della Paideia.
