https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/329736.Missee_Lee
Sadly, this is the one Swallows and Amazons that is too dated to be read with any pleasure today. Dated in its racism and cliched views of Asia. The story is constructed with Ransome's usual expertise and our heroes' capture by and escape from pirates is well told. Ransome brings his nautical knowledge to bear expertly in the parts of the tale that take place at sea. But the rest of it is rendered unbearable by its portrayal of the Chinese. The book should be retired from the series.
The very last book for us in this series.
We left the two sort of more "fictional" books until last: Peter Duck and Missee Lee. We are both very sad to say goodbye to the Swallows and the Amazons, who have been our friends in the car (audio books) for 15 months now, as we have listened to each 10-12 CD book.
Logan said the books with more realistic scenarios were more believable and so more fun.
I wish Ransome had stuck with adventures closer to home.
I'm sure at some point, we'll go back and listen to our favorite books in the series, but for now we will be moving on to other authors.
Thanks Mr. Ransome!
Another riveting adventure with the Swallows and Amazons (and Captain Flint) as they stumble across three Chinese islands after their ship sinks.
There they meet "Missee" Lee and the other two leaders: Chang and Wu. Highly entertaining as you follow John, Susan, Titty, Roger, Nancy, Peggy, and Captain Flint as they stumble upon this strange world.
Miss Lee, their new ally, although good at heart wants to keep them so they can learn Latin to remind her of her school days in Cambridge.But through a Dragon feast and other wild adventures the Swallows and Amazons are adamant that they will return home.
An entertaining read for youth, but teens and adults will also enjoy it.
The Swallows and Amazons are sailing through the China Seas aboard the "Wildcat" with Captain Flint, when they are captured by pirates and made the prisoners of the pirate queen, Missee Lee. This is my least favorite book in the Swallows and Amazons series, but it's still a good one! There's rollicking adventure, and plenty of humor. Mainly I just love the characters and their unique personalities. The plot takes a lot of twists and turns, with a beautiful setting and interesting development.
Much the worst of the series. I really am struggling for a satisfying read when even Arthur Ransome lets me down. Still, the sailing parts are quite gripping. The children having, and making their own adventures work beautifully. Using the children as characters in adventure stories don't work. Missing out this one and Peter Duck wouldn't hurt.
The following chapter switches to the Amazons, who are (as I understood it) boarded by Chinese pirates and kidnapped, making one attempt to escape, only to be recaptured.Soon after the Pirates capture the Swallows and Captain Flint, and all seven of them are apparently taken to China, being told they are being taken to Miss Lee, who is apparently their leader.
Literally, everything the Chinese characters said was full of this sort of stuff that would never be acceptable in a book nowadays.So, overall I thought this book was okay; it did have an exciting climax, and it was easy to follow, but the constant racism throughout the whole story was very shocking and so this has to be one of my least favourite titles in the Swallows and Amazons series.
Growing up the Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome was one of my favorite series. When I decided to re-read it as an adult I was worried that it would not stand the test of time. I was delighted to find that in general found it just as enjoyable now as I did as a child. The characters, writing style and adventures are great and I truly enjoyed the series.
it was good, but they kind of overdid the Latin lessons everyday!!!
S - LDPlaceholder
I've been a grumpy reader lately
Afloat now in the China Seas, they end up in uncharted territory and eventually make it to a mysterious set of three islands under the control of the infamous female pirate, Missee Lee!!!Eventually captured and brought before Miss Lee, they discover that while she is indeed "the terror of the seas" and rightly has earned the fear of those who sail the China Seas, she is also a frustrated Cambridge scholar wishing for happier days of study and Latin translations!
Missee Lee enjoys her class so very much that she neglects the running of the pirate business and then has to make a decision between keeping her beloved students prisoner and continuing Latin studies, or running the family pirate business successfully and keeping the three islands unified under her leadership.
This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.Missee Lee is the tenth book in the Swallows and Amazons series, and like Peter Duck, it is a deviation from the normal progression of the series.
It is only when Miss Lee, the most powerful taicoon on the Three Islands, takes them in as her students that they see any hope of ever escaping and making it home to England once more.As I mentioned in my Peter Duck review a little over a year ago, I find it jarring to read these stories that don’t actually take place within the overall arc of the entire Swallows and Amazons series.
MISSEE LEE is the tenth book in the popular 1930s-40s (British juvenile) Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome that includes a shipwreck, pirates, Latin lessons, Dragon dance parade, loss of freedom (prisoners!), Gibber (the pet monkey), Polly (the parrot), and three (uncharted but inhabited) islands in the China Seas.
The children are on a round the world cruise in their uncle's boat Wildcat in the China Seas with Amazon and Swallow boats on board.
This book and "Peter Duck" could easily be viewed as the final product of Titty's adventure-writing that she does in the other books.I was concerned that this book, published in 1941, might be terribly stereotypical of the Chinese, but I didn't find it to be so.
This story is, of course, not meant to be fully realistic, but rather a fantastic nail-biter adventure, and it succeeds at that very well.One thing I enjoy about all Ransome's books is that he doesn't patronize the audience (the books are ostensibly older children's books - I first read the series in 5th and 6th grade) by using dumbed-down language and explaining every unfamiliar term.

I know that today people say it's non PC or racist but this is how people thought and spoke about other nationalities when it was written.
You also have to remember at that time chinese lords had complete and utter power over their people.
Head chopping and the like would be acceptable.It also produced a return to a more level playing field as far as the characters were written, although for once Roger plays a big role and appears not to have left his brain at home.
My favourite book in the Swallows and Amazons series - I have probably read it 20 times over the years.
I own copies of the entire series, and they have followed me around for over 50 years now :) They inspired my sister and I to play at being the Amazons (we made skull and crossbone flags, learned to tie all the sailing knots, learned semaphore, etc.
centreboard dinghy, just like the Amazon, to sail at our cottage.
This particular book is a little different than the other novels, in that it takes place outside of England, but I always loved it best.
I finished my first book of 2011 (2 days ago, but forgot to mention it.) It is Missee Lee, by Arthur Ransom.
It's a departure from his other books, which are mostly about sailing, though this one has some sailing in it.
The other books mostly take place in England (Although one involves a voyage to Spain), but this one takes the kids all the way to China, where they are captured by Chinese Pirates.
It's a children's novel.
It's pretty good, but a little far-fetched.
Although written as if it were real, it seems more fantasy to me.

The weakest one of the entire Swallows and Amazons series. I found the entire book to be implausible. Yes, I realize that it was supposed to be written by the Swallows and Amazons, but Peter Duck was so much better. The entire crew and captain of the schooner the Wild Cat remain calm and evacuate the ship set alight by the monkey Gibber. The UK-educated Missee Lee speaks in pidgin and with a heavy accent?
I found and read the Swallows and Amazons series in my early 20s. I am only sorry I did not find them earlier. Stories of the family's summer adventures are beautifully written, and encourage responsible and creative living. Self reliance, intelligent reasoning skills, and strong imagination with these children provide an excellent backdrop for this series of books, as well as strong roll-models for any youngsters reading them.
I far prefer the Swallows & Amazons (and D's and Coot Club) books where the children create their own adventures rather than being at the mercy of adults. This book, like Peter Duck (which I also could do without) is pure fantasy. Plus there's the racial stereotyping, which is a reflection of the era in which Ransome was writing. The strong female protagonist (the eponymous Missee Lee) is the biggest factor in this book's favour. It has rather made me want to learn Latin, though... ;-)
If not for the painful colonialist caricatures, this would be a great Swallows and Amazons book. But as you can probably tell from the title, it retains a little too much of its time. Racist stereotypes aside, Ransome excels at making every clearly telegraphed ending (or Capt. Nancy-style semaphored ending) still fresh and surprising.
The Swallows and Amazons are traveling in the East with Captain Flint when their boat burns. They are captured by Chinese pirates. Their leader, Missee Lee, tries to teach them Latin before the manage with great difficulty to escape. This is my least favorite Ransome book (though I remember it was once a favorite of my son's). I think it is racist and what my kids refer to as "cringy."
Tenth of the Swallows & Amazons series, and the second in the series that is an adventure invented, rather than lived, by the children (yeah, yeah, yeah, it's all fiction--but this and Peter Duck are also to some degree metafiction). Some of it might strike one today as unPC, but it is still an amusing romp.
Not the best: a bit dated with some old racist/imperialist language but Ransome is writing for an audience, not necessarily professing his beliefs. at the same time, he has a strong young female character, so it's still a good yarn.
I always assumed this would be offensive in its treatment of China and Chinese people. It is.The audiobook narration is a hash of bad Chinese accents, bad sentence parsing, and some tragic mispronunciations.
Another excellent adventure from the series. In this book, similar in may ways to the earlier Peter Duck, the children are in serious danger, after a round-the-world sailing trip ends in disaster and they fall in to the hands of Chinese pirates. A thumping good read ...
Argh, argh, argh. I wanted to finish this, but gave up at page 188 - I just couldn't handle the terribly dated, racist depictions anymore. I know the Missee Lee character is probably a point in Ransome's favor (and after all, the book was first published in 1941), but I just couldn't go on.
I loved all the Swallows and Amazons books; I read and reread them between the ages 9-12. I've since read them again to my children and was struck by the racism of this one. I changed the way Missee Lee and others spoke when I read it out loud.
