https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105999.Dear_Mr_Henshaw
I like to imagine the replies from Mr. Henshaw. "Dear Leigh, Please stop writing to me every single day. I'm glad I impressed you, but you must cease and desist."
As it is always a struggle to for me to find quality books for kids, I figured it was time for a trip down memory lane, and, as always, Beverly Cleary does not disappoint her readers.Leigh Botts is a fifth grader whose parents have just gotten divorced.
While Henshaw along with school custodian Mr. Fridley can not replace Leigh's father, their life lessons help Leigh cope with his parents' divorce.I remember reading many of Cleary's books as a kid, either on my own or with my dad reading them to me before bed.
Leigh launches an all-out crash program to develop an alarm system (note the reference to Teller's "Alarm Clock" (failed) layered thermonuclear device, prior to the Teller-Ulam application of reradiation, plasma and finally ablation), sparing no expense (a jowly local electronics store owner's a passable cameo for General Leslie Groves).
We dream of a world without the threat of nuclear extinction and shed a tear as Leigh opens his lunchbox, assaulting friends, foe, and self with literally hundreds of millipascals of acoustic overpressure in a scene that disturbingly anticipates the 9/11 incidents and perhaps also steroids in baseball.Let Leigh Bott's alarm be an alarm for all of us.There was also something about butterflies, the details of which I've forgotten.
Rereading this book, I was struck with how Cleary manages to convey her narrator's complex of feelings in the limited vocabulary and understated style of Leigh Botts, a lonely and isolated young boy.
Eventually Leigh's interest in writing leads him to enter a contest by writing a "story"--a description, rather, of a ride in his father's truck--that only wins "Honorable Mention" and fails to attract the attention of his schoolmates, but a visiting author notices it and compliments Leigh for writing honestly about something he knows and has feelings about.
Likewise, this novel is an honest account of what seem to be a genuine young boy's complex of feelings.
فکر میکنم نه، ده ساله بودم که اولین بار با رامونا آشنا شدم.
الان کتابهای رامونا به چند ترجمه و اندازه و رنگ همهجا هستند، اما من یک کتاب نارنجی داشتم از کانون پرورش فکری که روی جلدش، رامونا دراز کشیده بود و زل زده بود توی چشمهای پدرش.
رامونا و پدرش فارغ از اینکه یکی از اولین کتابهای "واقعی" من بود، یعنی عکسدار نبود و شبیه کتابهای بزرگترها بود، یک لذت دیگر هم داشت: رامونا شبیه من بود.
مثل من از روی تخت میپرید تا هیولای زیر تخت شکارش نکند.
شبها کتابهای ترسناک را بین کتابها پنهان میکرد و همیشه دوست
فکر می‌کنم نه، ده ساله بودم که اولین بار با رامونا آشنا شدم.
الان کتاب‌های رامونا به چند ترجمه و اندازه و رنگ همه‌جا هستند، اما من یک کتاب نارنجی داشتم از کانون پرورش فکری که روی جلدش، رامونا دراز کشیده بود و زل زده بود توی چشم‌های پدرش.
لی باتس گرچه با رامونا خیلی فرق دارد، به همان اندازه واقعی و دوست‌داشتنی‌ست.
لی برای یک پروژه‌ی کلاسی چند سوال از آقای هنشاو می‌پرسد.
آقای هنشاو پاسخ‌ها را می‌دهد و چند سوال از لی می‌پرسد.
لی که جز نامه نوشتن کار دیگری بلد نیست، یادداشت‌هایش را به سبک همان نامه‌ها خطاب به آقای هنشاو خیالی می‌نویسد.
بچه که بودم کتابو خوندم و یه مدت خیلی دنبالش گشتم تا یکی از دوستام دوباره بهم هدیه دادش. کتاب داستان لی پسربچه ی تنهاییه که برای آقای هنشاو، نویسنده ی شوخ طبع موردعلاقه ش نامه می نویسه و کم کم بین این دو نفر یه دوستی مکاتبه ای شکل می گیره.چقدر دوست دارم همه چیز این کتابوبهترین گزینه برای هدیه دادن به بچه هایی که خاطره نویسی می کنن.
A brilliant book! Beverly does a fantastic job of showing how Leigh's writing changes as he keeps writing. At first it is short with little to say and by the end he is getting good at showing what happens. A simple story. This is similar to Crenshaw in several ways. This is a powerful story and I can't believe it took me this long to read it. There are great tips if children really want to be a writer too. Please get kids to read this. It's a story will enjoy.
"Are You There God, It's Me Margaret" for boys, well sorta. Boy this book is depressing. Dear Mr. Henshaw, my errant dad stopped by for his bi-annual visit last night.Dear Mr. Henshaw, I sleep in the back of a gas station on a forgotton stretch of highway.Dear Mr. Henshaw, my life is so lonely that the only entity I can think to communicate with is the name of an author I've never met.Dear Mr. Henshaw, life has no meaning.The End
Dear Mr. Henshaw,FUCK YOU.
I heard you reply to children writing letters to you so this I gotta try.
Fuck you for replying to Leigh Boots, (that boy who was dumbly obsessed with your books) with 10 stupid questions that are by definition, useless (unless you're a 6-year-old pixie spending afternoon sipping apple juice answering questions from a slumbook.) You might as well stab him in the eye with a corkscrew.
I know Leigh wouldn't like me writing to you but I got to give it some shit.
He thinks you're stupid.
He thinks Ways to Amuse a Dog is stupid.
I picked this up in a thrift store thinking that it was another book entirely but when I started it I found that it was charming story told from the point of view of a young man dealing with the fallout of his parent's divorce.
The young man is given an assignment in school to write to a favorite author and when the author mails him back a list of questions, he endeavors to answer them in series of letters and then journals as he grows up a bit.
Watching the movie "Stuck in Love" a character makes reference to this book as his favorite while the hard character of his affection felt the same. It is now one of my favorites as it has so many parallels to my life as a young boy. It doesn't bother me this is Jr. Fiction, what bothers me is, it took so long for me to find.
หนังสือเลมนีเปนผลงานในชวงทายๆ ของบีเวอรลี เคลียรีซึงเธอไดรวบรวมเอาความประทับใจจากจดหมายทีถูกสงมากจากเดกๆ นับพันๆ ฉบับกลันกรอง และถายทอดออกมาเปนหนังสือเลมนีมันสนุก นารัก และนาประทับใจ(โดยเฉพาะสำหรับแฟน บีเวอรลี เคลียรี คะ)
หนังสือเล่มนี้เป็นผลงานในช่วงท้ายๆ ของบีเวอร์ลี เคลียรีซึ่งเธอได้รวบรวมเอาความประทับใจจากจดหมายที่ถูกส่งมากจากเด็กๆ นับพันๆ ฉบับกลั่นกรอง และถ่ายทอดออกมาเป็นหนังสือเล่มนี้มันสนุก น่ารัก และน่าประทับใจ(โดยเฉพาะสำหรับแฟน บีเวอร์ลี เคลียรี ค่ะ)
Man, how I love this book.
Written as a series of letters and journal entries, with absolutely no narration, Mrs. Cleary somehow, miraculously, weaves together a plot, a central-California setting and a well-rounded character.
Through a series of letters sent to his favorite author, Mr. Henshaw, we catch insights into Leigh’s likes and dislikes, his hopes and insecurities, his absent, immature, truck-driver father, his wonderfully strong and supportive mother, and his loneliness.
He quickly catches our hearts and our sympathies.As Leigh’s first letters are rather insulting and demanding (humorous peeks into a child’s mind), Mr. Henshaw encourages him to keep a journal instead.
I am currently reading Dear Mr. Henshaw by Beverly Cleary this book is very interesting and funny.
Leigh Botts (the main character) writes letters to Mr. Henshaw because the book he is reading is by Mr. Henshaw.
Leigh and Mr. Henshaw write letters to each other about themselves.
You learn a lot about Leigh and Mr. Henshaw from the letters.
This book is interesting and enjoyable because you learn about the characters and their personalities in the letters.
I like this book because it is very descriptive and funny!
I recommend it to anyone who likes to read a good and different book with instead of chapters there is letters.
I think I must have been in grade school, and although I can't remember exactly whether I liked it or not (Leigh and I didn't really have that much in common), there are a lot of things about this book that I distinctly remembered while reading: feeling indignant at Leigh's lunch goodies being stolen (and a naive sort of disappointment in the resolution of that plot line), his gradually less formal writing style in his letters, and that "De liver de letter de sooner de better" bit.
a book doesn't have to be funny to be good"), and it addresses things that really affect kids, but in a realistic and overall uplifting way.
One of my favorites from childhood, and it hasn't lost the magic.
I find it so interesting and also rare that there are books about children dealing with divorce. This book holds up over time and it made both of us go from laughing one second to being a bit sad the next.
Dear Mr. Henshaw, Beverly Cleary عنوان: آقاى هنشاو عزيز؛ مترجم: پروین علیپور
Ok, this is a kids' book....but one of my fifth graders wanted me to read it so we could talk about it, and who could turn that down??I love Beverly Cleary!This is a GREAT book for kids who are going through divorce (because it doesn't affect just the parents). Heartfelt, realistic, easy to understand because Ms. Cleary wrote FOR kids, not TO kids.
not as good as diary of a wimpy kid. but I still liked it
The premise is a school-aged boy writes to his favorite author.
Most of the meat of the story is when the boy Leigh starts writing about what's going on in his life.
Leigh's mother divorces him because he's more in love with his life on the road than with his family.I'd love to hear what a ten-twelve year old thought of the whole divorce situation.
To me, it seemed like Dad's life on the road was way more fun and mother was home working a million hours and barely scraping by.
Throughout the read, I kept comparing it to Love That Dog, which is one of my favorites.
I thought this was so good.
I'd tried to read it as a kid and got maybe halfway through--it's that thing about not liking books about boys, and I remember that I also didn't want to read about a kid whose parents were divorced, which seemed strange and unhappy to me.
But reading it now, I thought it was very sweet and honest and funny.
At one point I almost cried.I've been trying to put my finger on why I can't give this five stars--I think maybe because Leigh seems too self-aware sometimes, in contrast to his usual personality.
Also, I do think something about this book loses kids--maybe the format?
"آقای هنشاو عزیز"رمانی کوتاه از نویسنده ی آمریکایی بورلی کلی یری است.محوریت این رمان نامه های یک نوجوان ۱۰ ساله به نام "لی" به نویسنده ی مورد علاقه اش آقای هنشاو است...پدر و مادر لی به تازگی از هم جدا شده اند ، پدر لی راننده ی کامیون است ، لی عاشق نویسندگیست ، او به مدرسه میرود و هر روز زنگ ناهار یک نفر بخش مورد علاقه ی ناهارش را میدزد...لی برای هنشاو از تمام این درگیری های ذهنی مینویسد ، بیش از همه از علاقه اش به نویسندگی میگوید و نامه ی عجیب آقای هنشاو مسیر زندگی لی را عوض می کند...~~جالب بود ، کوتاه و پرکشش...!اما چیز زیادی با خوندنش به دست نیاوردم...حتی با وجود اینکه در مورد پسر بچه ای بود که با بحران طلاق والدین مواجه میشه ، اطلاعات قابل توجهی بهم نداد...
بهترینِ خودت باش!"همین!ولی چون کوتاه بود و جذاب ، برای مواقع بی حوصلگی گزینه ی مناسبیه ;)
Really liked it, more the so, due to the first person diary and letter narrative which I am partial to.
The story of a young lonely pre-teen, the product of a broken marriage, who lives with his mother in a cramped house and has a good imagination and who loves writing.
The story starts as a letter he writes to a popular children's author as a part of a school project and carries on from there via correspondences and diary entries.
It was a poignant story, I felt like befriending and nurturing the poor sad boy, who does not realize he is sad and lonely.
This is the tale of Leigh Botts, a school aged boy and wannabe writer, as told in a series of letters to Boyd Henshaw, the author of Leigh's favorite book. It's an interesting twist and Ms. Cleary makes it work well. It was a pleasure to read, though I didn't find the heart of the story, Leigh coping with his parents' divorce, to be exceptionally enthralling.
When I was a wee lad I started this book several times but always stalled out before, let's say, page twenty-five. What an idiot I was. This book is amazing.
One of those books that I read over and over again, as a child... teen... young adult...
The Good: When I was in middle school, I adored the Ramona Quimby series and read approximately a zillion of those books.
It was good to be back in Beverly Cleary’s “world.” I think she really understands kids.
Luckily, my opinion of Leigh changed drastically as the book went on.
I guess you could call me the mediumest boy in the class.” – Dear Mr. HenshawThe Bad: This is one of those books that make me wish I could question the Newbery Award committee.
I guess I find quirky Ramona more compelling than troubled-and-demanding Leigh.The Bottom Line: It’s good.
In second grade, Leigh Botts reads a book How to Entertain Your Dog and writes to the author, Mr. Henderson, telling him how much he enjoyed the story.
The next year, Leigh writes again talking more about the book, about his own dog Bandit and about how he would like to be an author and write stories just like How to Entertain Your Dog. In fourth grade, the teacher assigns the class to write to an author to do a report about an author.
Leigh writes to Mr. Henderson again giving him a list of 1o questions so Leigh can use that as the basis of his report.
