https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104189.Same_Kind_of_Different_as_Me
And it's really awkward to feel the terrible sadness of a real person's death while gawking at the absurdity of her family and friends' visions of angels and spirits.I have to admit I started off with the idea that I wasn't going to like Same Kind of Different As Me. I'd read some reviews and they were largely polarized, with religious folks loving it and everyone else complaining about the preachiness.
In the end, I did find the book to be inspirational from a civic-works kind of context and I was able to dig out a few pearls of wisdom from Denver's messages.Once I realized I was reading evangelical propaganda, it all made a little more sense.
This was a book group selection, not my own selection.
I didn't like it, I thought the style was atrocious, and ultimately I didn't believe one of the narrators (the art dealer).
I thought the "modern day slave's" story was absolutely fascinating, but the rich white art dealer was too busy telling us how much better a Christian he was than anyone else.
His faith did not sound sincere to me; I felt like he was constantly clubbing me over the head with it.Please note: some of my book group felt the same way I did, but some felt it was the art dealer's love story to his deceased wife.
When Ron and Debbie volunteer at a homeless they befriend Denver and all their life's are changed foreverThis is a very spiritual book and is full of spiritual phases so much so that I found it quite preachy and a little off putting .
I liked Denver's story although I didn't feel I got to know him as much as I wanted to and felt that the book left out quite large and important parts of his life and seemed to just give the reader what was necessary.
One thing that struck me most was when she called up the lady with whom Ron had an affair with and told her that she knew about her, she hoped she find someone that would love and honor her one day, and that she took the blame for what went down in the affair, but that she was going to be working hard on keeping her marriage and if she did her job right, she wouldn't be hearing from Ron again.
I wanted to truly weep when he talked about the fire that took his paternal grandmother and cousin.
the mystery, magic and miracles described...the fascinating story of denver...a modern day slave, and the question of the value of prayer for anyone, believer or not was thot provoking for the hardline evangelical.
the chapters alternate between rich white man and illiterate 55-70 year old black man.update...i am shocked to still be receiving "likes" for my review of this book...i guess i should reread it...i'll write another update when i do (since 2009...
but if non religious people are actually reading it despite the christian publisher i will love to hear their take.
I made the right decision to pick this up to celebrate the start of Advent.This is a story of three people whose lives intersect beautifully resulting to their realizations of who they are and what they are capable to accept.
What comes next seems like a worn-out plot from many novels of this kind but Hall's narrative is truly heartfelt most probably because this is based on a true story.
(Source: Wiki).If you feel like getting some dose of inspiring and heartwarming reads this Christmas, consider this book!
It proved to be a very powerful and meaningful reading experience, which I'm very glad to have stumbled upon, even by accident!Authors Ron Hall and Denver Moore alternate in the telling of their life stories, beginning in childhood.
(That was not, at the time, very high on either man's to-do list!) What follows is a remarkable true story of what Christian readers will recognize as the marvelous working of God, which changed not only both men's lives but those of many others.Though this is nonfiction, it reads like a novel.
I feel a little bad about saying that; it's a sweet little book, and clearly the protagonists (Denver, 61 and black and homeless, and Ron, 55 and rich and white) tried to be as honest as they could in telling their stories.
But this is a memoir, and what makes memoirs resonate is complete honesty: telling the bad as well as the good.
Ron and Denver try to tell the bad and the good about themselves, but they just can't bring themselves to say anything bad about Ron's wife Deborah, whom they both view as a perfect saint.
She was very nice and friendly, but at the end of the conversation, just like that, she invited me to go on a Christian retreat with her.
She'd maybe talked to me for 2 minutes and proceeded to invite me to a whole weekend activity as if we were old friends.
Just as I'm getting to know the characters and their backgrounds, suddenly they start talking religion--they see visions and angels, have prayer circles constantly, and, in general, put me off.
Not that I'm not religious, and believe in angels, visions, and praying, but it just seemed too in-your-face to me.
Highly, highly recommend!!Ok, now that I've had some time to process this book (I wrote the review right after I finished, while still raw with emotion) I can now come back with a more detached review.
I still think it is a 5 star book, namely because of the emotions it drew out of me.
Thinking on it more now, I see that it might be more preachy than I originally thought, but frankly, that still works for me with this book.
So the fact that I was caught up in the religiosity of it, to me, means it was a powerful book.
I found him preachy and full of self righteousness.Denver's passages were real and I truly felt he was a good person to his core.
About half way through the story takes a sharp turn and becomes the story of Ron's wife Debbie that ulimately dies from cancer.
I felt a little railroaded into reading a cancer story.
There are many pictures of Denver and even of his art, which they never discuss and only two of Debbie, leading me to believe I was going to read a book about Denver and his path to art.
I would give 4 stars to Denver's passages but no stars to Ron's.
This is a very moving story!
A recommendation from my daughter's college roommate, an Evangelical Christian who doesn't even like to read, but she was squeezing this book in between Thermal Dynamics and Bio-Chemical Engineering homework, college life, church and a boyfriend.
They are an unlikely pair and form an even more unusual and yet incredibly enviable friendship, which allows Divine Providence to work great things in and through both men.
As often happens when Our Lord is at work in human affairs, the one who initiates things as the "giver" soon finds himself on the receiving end of the relationship.
I read almost 9/10 of the book in just one day.
Admittedly the broken english title "Same Kind of Different as Me" piqued my interest and boy did I enjoy this book. It is an autobigraphy of two men and the miraculous events that were orchestrated bringing two vastly different lives and lifestyles to intersect in a purely heavenly moment. Something every reader should get out of this book is a deeper understanding of homeless people and a greater mystery of providence. If you feel you have been given a bad hand and would like to dive into the deep mystery, read this book.
The Denver part of the story was very interesting but, I found Ron to be selfish and uninteresting. I could careless about how much he (Ron) was spending on new homes, cars ect. Denver's life was heart-breaking and I really enjoyed reading about his life
With that said, if you’re still even reading this depressing ink (if I were you I’d have stopped long ago) my third tale of woe in this series of “inspirational” reading, is one of Denver Moore, a man born and raised in Louisiana in the 40’s and 50’s, and until the late 60’s worked for “the man” on a share-cropping farm.
His wife drags him to a homeless shelter where the two of them come across Denver, who is of course all too happy to be hounded by two rich people with a cause.
A wonderful true story, especially in today's rush-rush world where we barely notice those around us.
Set mostly in Fort Worth, TX it was especially interesting for me to read something set so close to home.
This book was a learning experience for me on so many levels, but it espeically opened my eyes to things I had no idea went on in our recent history.
I HIGHLY recommend this book to anyone.
And it's a book you won't want to put down once you get started.
This book is a little too self congratulatory. The story unquestionably shows the power of doing good selflessly and the background story of one of the characters is tragic and fascinating. But by the end, the book is nothing more than an evangelical preaching session, losing site of its original message in favor of talking itself up, in the tradition of the old time gospel hour.
I wish I could say I liked the book.
I felt ambushed about half way through when it became a cancer story.
Perhaps that doesn’t make sense, but having lost one of my sons to cancer and then a few years ago my brother, it is hard to read stuff like that without somehow steeling myself for it first.
In any case, I just didn’t care for how it was written, even beyond the cancer part of the story.
There is a chance I’m completely off base, since many people really like the book.
3 starsI had both the book and the audio of this story.
There were pictures in the book that added to the story.
The basic story was a womans dream brought together a homeless, current day slave and her husband, an affluent art dealer.
Working in a shelter, the woman sees the man in her dream and forces the two of them together.
A critic says it is "a story of faith, fortitude and friendship".
I really thought I would like this book more than I did.
However the story was a bit more faith based than I enjoyed.
The audio book catapulted the story beyond expectation and heightened my visual.Same Kind of Difference as Me is the story of Denver Moore, a Black man, whose personal perils and melancholy filled life are directly attributed to the color of his skin and the emptiness of his pocket, Ron Hall, a very successful art dealer, and Ron Hall’s wife, Beth, both of whom are cast as philanthropic humanitarians, initially more for self gratification (but, it seems, not in an insincere manner) and later by way of “spiritual” awakening.
I began reading this for one book club but ran out of time.
I'm not sure if I would have picked it up to finish again if it hadn't been for the selection to read this with my other book club.
Also just for a thought, one girl from our group sent out the idea, "we don't know what angels look like".One of my favorite parts from this book is when Denver asks Ron if he is going to catch and release him.
This in turn had me sit and think about the friendships I have "caught and released".
Well, the evangelism sort of worked: I spent the whole book thinking, "Dear God" and "Good Lord" and "Oh Jesus Christ." So that's something.I mean, I can't argue with this book any more than I can argue with a fairy tale.
Good Guy (white, rich, super privileged) "saves" Bad Guy (black, poor, super oppressed) and learns some life lessons in the process.
Will they help people who are a different kind of different as them?It's one thing to befriend (and, let's be honest, profit from) that one scary-looking black guy who's down on his luck.

I think the concept for this book was great. But whoever helped the two main characters tell their stories added so much fluff for "dramatic content" that the story was almost ruined for me by the end. I think if Denver Moore and Ron Hall had just told their story simply it would have been a wonderful book. I had a hard time believing that anyone actually said any of the dialogue by the time I finished.
This was a book that made me think about the people that I come into contact with and what I can, or have, learned from them.
I have not had an experience like the relationship in the book (coming together with someone from the opposite side of the track), but I do have people in my life that I can't imagine not having met.
Maybe I was tired?
Maybe I am too sensitive?
Or maybe it is because the story is a true account of their lives, which always seems to be more vulerable.
The bottom line is that this book tells a good tale (a bonafied true story!) about a homeless black guy and rich white guy who become best friends through the pluck and persistance of the latter’s freakin’ angelic wife. The story is remarkable, and it has left a real mark on the city of Ft. Worth, TX. I’m not saying that it’s for everyone, but anyone who ever laid a claim to a hope in The Lawd could use this book as quick test of the state of their soul. (I know mine could use some work.)more: http://blog.gw-1.com/2009/03/same-kin...
Very rarely do I give 5 stars to a book, but this one really changed my life. The true story of a homeless black man and a wealthy white art dealer whose paths cross and change each other forever. I cried more throughout this book that any other book, ever.
An amazing story of an unlikely friendship, and the power of God. I generally don't read non-fiction except for the Bible; in this case, I'm glad I made an exception!
When our book group decided to read Same Kind of Different As Me by Ron Hall & Denver Moore, I wasn’t positive I would like it.
Denver Moore, a black man brought up in 50’s Louisiana; shifted from place to place, suffering terrible losses at a young age, surviving by the hand of The Man, eventually ends up homeless on the streets of Fort Worth, Texas.
When Denver visits the mission one day, Debbie knows this is the man in her dreams.As you can tell from the above this is a faith based book.
