https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40985756-shots-fired-in-anger
John George was a U.S. Army Infantry officer who saw combat on Guadalcanal and in Burma during WWII.
"Shots Fired In Anger" is actually two books in one.
The first half is a memoir of his experiences on Guadalcanal from December 42 - February 43.
As a firearms buff myself I often find war memoirs to be lacking in detailed descriptions of the equipment.
Those books dedicated to the weaponry and equipment ,in turn, often lack detailed descriptions of how they were used.
This is a book written by a man in his late twenties at a time when people accepted racial cliches without question - for the most part.
If you're a WorldWar Two history buff and a weapons geek, this is the perfect book.George does a detailed analysis of the weapons, equipment and tactics of the Japanese soldier. He does a similar deconstruction of the American soldier and his weapons.He is unsparing in his criticisms of each. I was surprised to see how much admiration George had for the Japanese and some of their gear.I learned a lot from this. I absolutely loved it.
Interesting - with a big detailed part about different japanese and american light weapons
TechnicalGave this book a three because I wanted to read about the author’s experiences on Guadalcanal and beyond. Toward the end he mentions Burma and serving in Merrill’s Marauders, which would have made for five star (or even higher!) ratings, but instead he detours into a highly technical discussion about Japanese and American armaments involved in the battles. Too much detail for me - I prefer the human side of the story. Merrill’s Marauders would have been more meaningful, as my father-in-law soldiered in that unit but was not one to share his story with family members. Alas!
The CanalThe writing s on his combat actions on Guadalcanal were well done and very interesting. The latter half of the book is more suited to people who are interested in the nomenclature of the weapons used in the Pacific campaign on both sides. It is written in minute detail to the point that you could use it to breakdown these weapons, repair and clean them and and return them to functionality.
Good Historical information from the WWII Pacific campaign. This author loves weapons and goes into infinite detail about each weapon he encounters, both Axis and Allied. This was a bit over the top in many cases, there is so much detail that one could almost reconstruct some of the weapons from the information included. There was also much commentary on tactics and weapons design and use that was of great interest to me, but it also was a bit off topic. I do recommend this book, but with reservations related to the preceding notes.
Both entertaining and educational.This author was there! He experienced the fighting as well as the constant battle with the environment . I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book. He was gracious during the last quarter of the book to explain the types of weapons used by both the Americans and the Japanese. Hope this helps!
Excellent This book was very well written and explained in precise detail about the weapons and tactics utilized in and out of contact to include enemy as well. I would recommend this read to those who understand all facets of ballistics and functionality of rifles, artillery, mortars etc.
Excellent informationThis book is interesting because it gives you the observations of a trained rifleman shortly after the battle. Fascinating evaluation of Japanese vs American weapons and tactics. I gave it four stars because it is a little dry to read
A new look at WWllFor me this was anew way of seeing combat. I have read and studied much about WW11 and learned a lot new in this book. Well written told a good story though it is not a story book. Truly enjoyed it.
GuadacanalReadable but the long section. On weapons could have been omitted. Only arms collectors will find all those words interesting.
Interesting perspective. Big time detail on weapons used.
Wasn't impressed with this arrogant authors personal remembrances of his initial exposure to World War II in the South Pacific. He associates fighting the Japanes to a hunting trip looking for game birds or deer. His interest in weapons not only Japanese and USA rather than the troops he is suppose to lead as a junior officer in the US Army. It is however the one redeeming quality of this book is the fact it can be used as source material about both sides weapons... Not impressed... Gald I got it for $0.99.
Could not get into this book at all. Started it three times and never got past the first chapter. Major disappointment.
