https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61329.Crossing_the_Chasm
Having created a Marketing company during college (after owning several businesses and spending more than a year selling advertising for a newspaper) with paying customers and everything!So, I immersed myself in learning everything possible about Marketing in the context of small privately held firms.
except that I know more than 99% of the people who claim they do.This book changed my life, and the lives of my clients.
But it was not until April 2009 that I dug in to learn its secrets.
I was simply amazed.If Marketing touches any part of your business (or personal) life, you must buy, read, and re-read this book.

good one..must read!!Read and enjoy:)
Lots and lots of opinions, directions, and instructions with very few reasons and evidence (let alone science) to back it up. The stories and anecdotes that are mentioned to back up points are cherry picked. Research on the credibility, track record, and net worth of the author only made my skepticism increase. I cant say his directions are wrong. But I wasn't convinced they were right. I'm sure many other people have failed to even consider these components before rushing to implement on his advice (considering how famous the book is), which I think is a dangerous error.

Если два человека приобретают один и тот же товар по одной и той же причине, но при этом не имеют никакой возможности посмотреть друг на друга, они не являются членами одного и того же рынка Суть в том, что, в отличие от технологических энтузиастов, провидец извлекает пользу не из технологии самой по себе, а из прорыва, которого она позволяет добиться.
These people are less prone to bugs, errors or support requirements but they're the start of your upward race collecting more customers and building a better product that could possibly find it's way to the mainstream market.Then we have the great chasm to reach the skeptics mainstream customers, this is where stuff gets really hard and you'll really need to up your game as the people here are pragmatists and conservatives.
This requires focus and forfeiting embrace everything solutions (that wouldn't work, anyway) and will give you much better results.The book then goes about pricing (and it's a great discussion, like how much money you need to be making to have an actual sales force and product price point), partnerships and other stuff involved.
I began this book exploring a product to launch and finished it working in the business services industry.
This juxtaposition helped me make sense of Moore's analysis and see its limitations.For high-tech, or most new products, Moore is spot on.
His strategy (summed as 'focus') is the way to conquer this challenge.For services, I'm not as sure.
Frankly, most small service businesses (singular self-employed ventures) stay in this stage.
We never reach a 'mainstream.' And we shouldn't: when you can mass-produce professional services, you lose the real value created.All that said, Moore was an entertaining and refreshing read: high-tech (and new product) folks must take him in.
This is certainly one of the most insightful business books i have ever read.
It is of biblical importance to anyone in the technology business, especially operating in a B2B scenario.Apart from a cogent theoretical framework, it provides high practical, and actionable advice on how to move from one segment to the next in a technology adoption life cycle.
It has certainly shown me the wrong assumptions we have made in our own business, and why.The book helps consultants create a concrete service offering to start-up clients who need advice on their go-to-market and organizational strategy.Full five stars on this book.
I have never stopped to think about how a company gets from an early product into the mainstream, even tho I have been working in tech for ages.
There are too many eye-opening ideas, including (but not limited to) product lifetime stages, target audiences segmentation, tips on how to cross the chasm, and to my surprise – dealing with early startup employees vs product ownership.
I don't think the world will ever be the same again.
Work in a startup?
Building a startup?
I never knew where the concept of early adopters and the technology adoption life cycle came from.
The book is well written, has a compelling concept -- the "chasm" that must be crossed from visionaries and innovators to mainstream use in tech companies and that this crossing requires completely different techniques and types of people -- and is SHORT.
I love short business books.Thanks to Will, my sculptor/alternative energy consulting/visionary friend for recommending this.
It has all sorts of interesting implications, well outside of just the tech world for areas as diverse as community building and a career as an artist.
It's a classic...
and the point it makes is solid (more or less, that the skills needed to make an innovative product for early adopters are very different from those to make a mass market whole product).That said it's very dated, and most of the advice pertains to large products.
The paradigm it establishes has no room for crowdfunding, or for companies like 37signals that don't hardsell anyone.
It's a very sales-driven viewpoint on things for a corporate world that's very focused on the bottom line.I'm sure much of it still applies, but it talks about the parts of the world that I strive not to interact with all that much.
I think this a great fundamentals book for any technologist or product manager (not mutually exclusive) to read. There are some really evergreen pointers on developing markets, product positioning and more. It's clear that a lot of product strategy books drew inspiration from Crossing the Chasm. One drawback is that there are some outdated references and examples, but most are still relevant.
I picked this up thinking it was a mountaineering book, based on the title.
Turns out it’s actually about marketing high-tech products in a B2B context.I thought this was really well written.
The main idea is that breaking into mainstream markets is best achieved by first narrowing the firm’s focus to a specific segment where the product can be established as the clear leader.Although the subject matter gets a little dry, Moore’s attempts at jokes keep things entertaining.
He also writes in a way that shows the broad applicability of his ideas (outside high-tech B2B selling).“As the kids like to say, What’s up with that?”
Essential reading for any B2B entrepreneur. Moore's principles for "crossing the chasm," - the critical period between marketing to early adopters and more pragmatic buyers - are extremely compelling and practical. I found the examples and case studies relatable and useful, and will revisit again and again. Plus, my old company Visible Measures got a great shoutout in it.
I wish I had read this one earlier.
Sound adviceLet's just say I took copious notes. I'm also writing an abstract to share with my team. Should be required reading for any tech startup.
[Summary] Successfully getting lead users is different from successfully entering mainstream market.
It assumes that the adoption of the product will automatically diffuse from early users (technologist and visionary users) to followers (early majority, late majority, and laggard).
Early users will put their focus on technological breakthrough, aiming to achieve superior competitive advantage while taking higher risk.
following users, except laggard, will focus more on stability of product innovation to ensure that they will not burn their money for the waste.
A large chasm, the major obstacle to achieve mainstream market, occurs between visionary users and early majority.
This completely changed my understanding about marketing.The principle is that the buying needs of technical visionaries and the early mainstream markets are different.
But, it's a very clear and practical description.The book ends with an interesting section on the people involved in making technological products.
The motivation needs of the people that create high-tech vs mainstream products are as different from each other as the buyers of those products.
Everyone involved in the different phases of the technology product lifecycle needs to understand the nature of the phase they are in and be rewarded appropriately.
This manual in the pains of starting a new business.
But, from the safety of his new home he's willing to share some actual lessons from his start up life in the fitful infancy of the internet industry.That said, there are interspersed with bits of fluff and fill some toothsome applicable facts in this book.
While this book is aimed at internet start ups, the actual market segmenting and life cycles of nearly all early business will fit into this model and should have value to you.
You will grow in fits and starts like everybody else.
Few dreamed of where Apple, Microsoft or Amazon would be today.
Today, these are some of the biggest names of the tech industry, in fact, they are some of the biggest names in any industry.
How in the span of a teenagers life can Facebook have captured a market of over 1.9 billion people?
This is a book for everyone who wants to learn how companies grow and build out the enormous markets we could scarcely have imagined a few score years earlier.
The product adoption life cycle in the high tech industry, dealt in all its detail in the book, was an eye - opener for me.
Though I knew the cycle of innovators running through the laggards in the adoption cycle, never did I get such a deep understanding of the importance of the cycle, what matters most to each player in the life cycle and how can the chasm be crossed are extremely valuable.
Other than the last few chapters on organizational changes required to cross the chasm, I just did not feel like dropping the book even for a minute.
My next book is Inside the Tornado from Mr.Moore.
The book gives understanding and tools how to go beyond early adopters to mainstream customers and the big growth. The perspective in the book is the startup's. But knowing these things helps established enterprises to fight back new entrance. It's one of those must reads for entrepreneurs and investors. Valuable for founders, investors, marketing, sales and finance people. One of those books worth going back to once in a while.
Excellent book on how to move from an early market to conquer the mainstream market, in which the majority of profit resides. However there are points that can be made clearer or easier to understand for people without a marketing background.Overally, this is a classic book on this topic. Probably the latest edition is updated to provide clearer explanation, as the version that I read is the revised version from the first edition.
I liked the way Moore breaks down the hi-tech adoption curve- the step by step process of taking a disruptive technology to market is impressive and useful.I liked the analogy of D-Day to entering the early majority segment, and also the characterization of each segment based on what conditions must be met for them to buy.It's an intricate book though- took me months to get through and it's only a few pages...
Very interesting cover for a topic I know so little about... Only downside is that I bought an older edition, and hence some arguments and example look quite dated. Will read the new edition which should be updated with the market rupture of the internet society, but even these older editions are remarkable, providing a very clear model of the high-tech industry.
Lovely book that very clearly articulates its plan for how to build a successful business in high tech business.I'm not yet at the stage where I can directly apply its advice (I'm massively pre chasm right now), but it's given me a lot to think about and I'm definitely going to reread it in 6 months or so.
By far one of the most essential marketing books when you are in high tech marketing!If you want to learn why marketing to early adopters is completely (yes, completely) different than to the early majority, than this book is all you need.The chasm exists people and it can be one hell of a trap if you don't know how to cross it.
The first part is good. The very idea of a chasm between early adopters and pragmatics feels right at home given my previous experience at several startups. But the longer I read this the more the analogies got tiring and the whole thing felt overly prescriptive. After looking at a dozen charts I couldn't help but evoke the very familiar - but not very helpful - conjoined triangles of success.
Very instructive book !! There's a lot to learn from it !!! Wish there were more emphasis on tactics and strategies in early market as this corresponds to the status of the product i am currently working on. This may have required a book named "Reaching the chasm" !! Hopefully when i read again when i reach the chasm i'll get more benefits from its secrets !!
