https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176626.King_Bidgood_s_in_the_Bathtub
King Bidgood's in the Bathtub by Audrey Wood is also characterized by simple clean vocabulary but has some of the most miraculous and intricate drawings I've ever seen, by Don Wood. I love the premise (of refusing to get out of a bath) and I can still stair for hours at the detail in those amazing full page illustrations. (It helps that the artist's model for the king, Harry Bidgood, was a family friend.)
When a page cries out that King Bidgood’s in the bathtub and refuses to leave, many have some ideas as to how to coax their monarch out, but nothing seems to work.
they all seem like useful ideas to get the king away from his ducky, but the King remains firmly rooted in the bathtub.
Just as everyone runs out of ideas, the page has one more that might work...
Neo always liked baths and playing in there, but he also knew the importance of getting out when requested.
When the final solution presented itself, Neo laughed and said that he wished he had thought of that sooner.
This book has unusually gorgeous and sophisticated illustrations for a children’s picture book; they’re amazing.The story has a really fun premise and an amusing conclusion. Children who either love or hate baths might feel particularly gleeful because of the story, but it’s a great book for all children.(note for vegan children: there is a "fishing" scene)
Audrey Wood's King Bidgoood's in the Bathtub is a fun, rollicking and engagingly entertaining bath-time story, although for me, it is Don Wood's descriptively gorgeous and simply marvellous illustrations that really do make this story oh so special, as the narrative, albeit lively and humorous, is also somewhat predictable and mundane, especially when compared to the rich detail of the accompanying and minutely descriptive pictorial images.
However, I could also well imagine perhaps using King Bidgood's in the Bathtub with older children to perhaps discuss the many duties of a monarch, and why it might not necessarily be particularly beneficial or positive for a kingdom to have a monarch, a leader, who spends all his/her time soaking in the tub instead of governing, instead of working for the good of his/her kingdom.
Don Wood’s illustrations are all beautiful and humorous as he delightfully illustrates the King enjoying every activity suggested in the bathtub such as the image of King Bidgood eating lunch inside the tub and all the food being place between him and the Queen.
“King Bidgood’s in the Bathtub” is a wonderful book that is full of creativity and good humor about the King’s obsession with staying inside the bathtub and is certainly suitable for children of all ages since there is nothing inappropriate about this book.Review is also on: Rabbit Ears Book Blog
I was grinning the whole way through this fun tale of King Bidgood who simply WON'T get out of the bathtub--not for a battle, not for lunch, not for a dance...
Because everything can be done in the bathtub and, of course, it is so much more fun in there!
And I know my five-year-old self would have been absolutely infatuated with the idea of the king being in the bathtub :-D This book really made me want to take a bath so it might even be a good one for any reluctant young bathers out there ;-> Huge thanks to Chandra for recommending this to me!
My 22 month old daughter loved this book!
She was excited about every pages and talked about what was going on while I read the story.
She enjoyed the CD in a car ride shortly after.
I watched her face (I wasn't driving) and she kept smiling.
I was delighted to see her enjoying this book so much.
The illustrations are superb, capturing the mood and expressions on everyone's faces so well.
I am so glad it won a Caldecott Honor Book Award.The story was fun for the both of us.
I enjoyed the humor of it and my daughter enjoyed the rhythm of it.
And the expressions and comic illustrations are fun to pore over for the smallest details.
My only complaint is that the illustrations are very dark, and it's best to read this book in a well-lit room; we read our bedtime stories in a dimly lit room and it was a little difficult to see all of the details in the picture.
This book was selected as one of the April 2011 Royalty themed reads for the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Book group here at Goodreads.
This story was also selected for the May 2016- Caldecott Honors discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I love the ending and have used this for several years in a bath story time.
However, I really love the music in the filmstrip and would recommend the cd or dvd over the book.
7/22/11Worked really well at PJ time.
7/17/12This was a big hit at PJ Story Time again.
6/18/13Used for Story Time and it was the most successful of the 3 books.
Also used for PJ Story Time and it was a huge hit from preschoolers to grandmas.
6/24/14Used for both PJ and Story Time again this year.
7/14/15Had some older children for Story Time and this went over real well.
I feel like I am being harsh about some of the Caldecott books that I have been reading, but I am just trying to be true to how the book effected me. Yes, the illustrations are superb and the story is funny, it might even be perfect for that child who doesn't like getting out of the tub. If I am honest, though, I didn't like the dreary, colored pictures and I found the concept of people getting in the tub with the king.... Well odd. Lol.
The illustrations are delightful in this quirky title. My children thought this was crazy and funny, but we were all a little sheepish about the king's *ahem* lack of modesty. We thought he was a little cuckoo. :P
I love Don Wood's whimsical stlye of illustrating. Pictures are full of detail and text is fun to read.
Technically, I watched the episode that this book was featured in.
Though I can't for the life of myself remember what the show was.
I know it was not Reading Rainbow (which I watched regularly), and I think the show was a blend of human characters and puppets—just like a certain other well known PBS show.Dammit, why can't I remember you show that I believe was a hybrid of Reading Rainbow and Sesame Street?
Has my drinking really gotten so bad that I can no longer remember the shows I enjoyed as a child?
Oh well, perhaps a beer...or eight will make me feel better.
Everyone should own this book.
I don't care how old you are or whether you will ever even have children to read it to.
This book belongs in every household!
For one thing it has a delightful story, for another every single inch of every single page is a work of art.
It's one of the books my children and I would read for hours at a time.
Over and over they would beg me to read it.
Then, when the children were all snug in their beds I'd pick it up to enjoy all by myself.
This is my all time favorite children's book. I checked it out nearly every single time I went to the library as a kid (probably from age 4-5?). I finally got my own copy for my 16th birthday, I think.The story is cute, but the most amazing thing is the illustrations. So many details and so much going on. I would spend hours studying the pictures.
i had this book on tape when I was a child but I had NO IDEA it was actually a book. I loved this story. It was goofy and funny. Seeing the illustrations to go with it makes this book even better. It's an absolute favorite and I'm glad I finally got to read the actual book.
The wealthy refuse to admit a problem exists until it affects them personally, as usual.But for real though, the pictures in this book are wild. Highly recommended for the faces alone.
To this day I still quote this book whenever I feel like not going out or want to take longer showers."Today we lunch in the tub!"
This is an all time favorite. I read it to my first graders today because it's #Readinthebathtubday today. They thought it was the funniest thing, reading in the bathtub, until they saw what King Bidgood did in the bathtub.I may need to make a shelf for gazing books. I mean there are picture books, and then there are books you can gaze at and still see something new every time you open it. King Bidgood is certainly for gazing.
The illustrations are absolutely sumptuous; it's hard to turn the page because you just want to keep staring.
But will the Page ever be able to get the King out of the tub -in time for dinner?!
The repetitive manner of this book will engage young readers and have them shouting the lines right along with you!
"KIng Bidgood's in the bathtub, and he won't get out!" repeats itself on every other page.
This book would make for a great tool in getting young readers to read on their own.
Young readers often need reassurance while reading and this book offers that in it repetitive sentences and simple answers.
Overall, I'd use this book at a tool to get young readers reading on their own.
Years ago, when my children were much younger, I bought this book at their elementary school library book sale.
Clearly told, the king refuses to leave his bathtub to rule his kingdom.
The king was undeniably contented to staying where he was at.But let's get to the nitty-gritty: the illustrations were absolutely awesome.
I dare anyone to not at least smile while reading the story.This children's book is one of my family's all time favorites and, believe me, we've read quite a few stories.
By the time you are on the last page you won't believe what a sensible solution takes place.
Buy this book for your children.
In Audrey Wood's King Bidgood's in the Bathtub, Caldecott Award winner, published in 2005 (second publication) the king's young page seeks the assistance of the court members in trying to get the king out of the bathtub, "HELP!
KING BIDGOOD'S IN THE BATHTUB, AND HE WON'T GET OU!
They all try to entice the king out of tub but they all fail.
Finally, the young page figures out how to get the king out of the bathtub.
Don Wood, the illustrator, pays great attention to the details of the pictures.
I especially like how Audrey Wood used the moon and sun to show the passing of time throughout the story.
Don't you just hate it when "King Bidgood's in the bathtub and he won't get out"?This is a wonderful read-to for the child with a brief attention span.
The incredible illustrations are so detailed, s/he will find something new every time you read it.
The rhythm of the verses is well suited to a four-to-six year old (or earlier, if yours has stopped tearing pages and squirming out of your lap)!Everyone has a turn trying to get the king out of the tub (and of course, the necessary parts are always covered well with bubbles, until the last page, when they're covered with something else).

This story was fairly crazy, something though, a young child would love. The drawings were rather humorous and added a lot to the book. All in all, a crazily silly book that I'd recommend.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
There's something on each page to enchant a child, whether it be the absurd situations, the long rickety stairway without a rail, the repetitious lines, or the grand finale. The kids always wait excitedly to tell me what's going to happen before we turn that last page. I should add that I was surprised by how much they liked this book. I would have given it 3 stars without their input.
Fantastic children's book with rich and colorful illustrations. Hillarious (especially when read outload with aristocratic voices). A good friend suggested this one, and oh was she right. An oldy but goody!
Lush illustrations and lots of humor as the king refuses to get out of the bathtub. Kids will love the humor and the fact that, after all of the adults try to get him to come out, it is a kid who succeeds.
Lol no. Will there ever be an Audrey Wood book that I like...? I also don't know whether to find the fact that Goodreads says this comes with a read-aloud music CD with a "rap track" hilarious or embarrassing.
