https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10025305-clockwork-prince
my video review/discussion can be found here: https://youtu.be/xL85QtJjUqESO MANY FEELINGS. ALL OF THE FEELINGS. So many things were revealed in this book and I just can't get over everything that went down. MADNESS.
I enjoyed this reread SO SO SO MUCH!!! I can't believe I was ever petty enough to *vehemently dislike* this novel. Like almost every reread of The Infernal Devices I struggled to fall into the story in the beginning. Alas, I read the second half of the book in one sitting because I REFUSED to put it down. I'm so pleased that I can enjoy these books as an adult much much more than I did as a teen.
Will, can you please write a love letter to me too?
And me...Cassandra Clare, you just broke my heart gazillion times.
*crys like in the above 5 pics again*' ='( 3I demand Cassandra Clare to publish the third book right now or there might be news about a girl who committed suicide under Cassandra Clare's building because her third book in Infernal devices is gonna be published on 2012!And If you love Will, you will listen to this song, because I broke down after listening to it.
xD-----------------------My review while currently reading this book.I seriously need to use this advice right now!
Will looks so hot in this pic ^.^And Jem...
And they have.It should scare me to think that Cassandra Clare is not done messing with our emotions, that there will be more heart-breaking scenes in Clockwork Princess, but part of me must be a masochist.Because I am looking more than forward to having my heart broken for the millionth time.These characters have become so dear to me.
The pacing is slower and the focus is sharp on the characters and less so on the actual plot.And it’s also more treacherous.As in… brace yourself, dear readers, for Clockwork Prince will leave a mark on you.
Before she began writing this series, the author rather famously moved to England for six months and read nothing but books written or set in the Victorian era, and even walked all the streets that her characters might have traveled.
Tessa transcends the thinking of the time and uses clever magic and thinking to outwit her adversaries at every turn.A Love of LiteratureAnother thing I also adore about this series is how much appreciation all the characters have for literature.
Liked Clockwork Angel better than the Mortal Instruments, that's why I am eagerly awaiting the next installment in the Infernal Devices=]December 2011 is too far away!!Can't we just read it now?Huh...It seems people are already choosing sides...So, in that case, I'll admit that I am...TEAM WILL!!!=)hahaha, so predictable of me, but I can't help it!----------------------------------------------------WOW. Wow, wow, wow. Amazing... review to come! :)

**Don't click the spoilers if you haven't read the book.**I think it's time to admit to myself that The Mortal Instruments and Infernal Devices series are just not for me.
At one point I just had to put it down for a few days and read something else because every time I picked up the book it would put me in this kind of mood:Sure the Shadowhunters did things, but every time they were about to go on a mission we are given unnecessary descriptions of what Tessa is going to wear or how Sophie did her hair or how silver Jem's eyes looked that day.
TOO MANY EMOTIONS WERE FELT!For me Tessa seemed to be a totally different character in this book, in the sense that she wasn't shocked by things anymore, I enjoyed her a lot more and could sense that she was more settled.
his character developed so much more in this book I think, he was strong, stood up for what he believed in and was once again the loving, caring Jem Carstairs we all know.
His love for Tessa is so beautiful and so raw it honestly melted me!Sophie and Gideon just made me so happy in this book!
actual footage of me thinking about the fact that I Cried Reading This Stupid Book:I really could just leave my prereview here as a review, so like, here's the review: *sips from an open bottle of vodka* any ending that doesn't involve all three of them dating is not valid.
Yeah, I’m aware that I liked this book more than it might have deserved, and I’m aware that people make fun of this series for The Love TriangleTM.
I guess we stopped pretending this was a review, so here’s the part of the review where I scream about the characters [aka the reason why I would die for these occasionally trashy books].
” Zhe shi jie shang, wo shi zui ai ni de.”” In this world, I love you the most.” Holy Carstairs! This book was perfection! The hunt for the Magister continues. Although he never shows up in this book. Tessa still tries to help in the hunt for Mortmain by using her power to Change. She feels guilty over her brother, who is still incredibly evil and using someone close to her to spy on them. This book is as full of danger and excitement as the first. Tessa is trying to stay away from brooding Will
This book was perfection!
Tessa is trying to stay away from brooding Will and she continues to grow closer to Jem. Jem is perfection.
I so hope for once the good guy wins because if anyone deserves it, Jem does.
He is the greatest friend to everyone and I so hope Tessa really continues to see what a perfect match he is for her.
Ever.Don't forget to read the scene from Jem's POV here http://www.cassandraclare.com/my-writ...We finally learn Will's big secret.
Yes he was young when it first happened but he could of talked to Jem about it or looked into it himself.
1.) City of Bones ★★★2.) City of Ashes ★★3.) City of Glass ★★★1.) Clockwork Angel ★★★4.) City of Fallen Angels ★  “You are a Shadowhunter. You serve a greater cause. Your life is not yours to throw away.”  Friends, this is the highest four star rating. Like, I almost want to give this book five stars because I enjoyed the last 25% so damn much. This is easily my favorite Cassie Clare book yet, and I truly had such a wonderful time reading. This is the second installment in this history prequel s
This is easily my favorite Cassie Clare book yet, and I truly had such a wonderful time reading.
Yet, this book is also about Tessa trying to carve out a place for herself in a world that is unfamiliar to her in so many ways, while also trying to learn about her true past and who she wants to be in the future.
I kept complaining on bookstagram at 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, that this isn’t a love triangle and that its so obvious that Tessa only feels platonically for Jem. Then after that 40% mark, my world completely shifted.
If they go down like the twilight books did, with everybody either loving them and being obnoxious and choosing retarded "sides" then sensible people who think this side nonsense is a bunch of BS and that teenagers only like the books because they want to bang the characters will hate the books without reading them.
Please don't ruin these books with the 'side' nonsense!
A character can be much nicer, sweeter and cuter than another (Jem) but to say that you are on their side and therefore against the other is retarded and the reason that most people 'hate' the Twilight Saga.
Actual footage of me after I read Chapter 20  “But now, you are twain, you are cloven apartFlesh of his flesh, but heart of my heart”  I miss you, William Herondale.
Good God, this book has created quite the set-up for Clockwork Princess! It has all the makings of a brilliantly crafted tragic love story, and I CANNOT WAIT to find out what happens next! I don't even care that the main villain didn't even make an appearance, this love triangle has me so enthralled XDBring on the feels!!!
I have no regrets, and I love this book.I managed to love and hate Clockwork Prince at the same time, simply because the love triangle continues to rip out out my heart and splatter it all over the floor.
Alright, that's actually a lie (just one, okay?), but I rarely come across any books with a good love triangle.I mean, take Twilight, for example.
a love 'triangle'?) to put in that book.Wait, holy crap, does he have abs?!Now, I think that Clockwork Prince owns the damn thing .
But Jem is #1 on my list.Both are in love with Tessa, and I just want Jem to be happy.CharactersClare manages to make amazing, funny, and heartfelt characters in her stories.
Compelling plot-line: ✓Superfluous mention of characters' eye colors: ✓Demon pox: ✓Romantic relationships galore: ✓Character development: ✓✓✓✓✓
So I've thought about it and I'm probably never picking this back up so it's a permanent DNF. Cassandra Clare's books just aren't for me. 💩-He said it's better than the first one so here I am 💩
This series makes me want to cry because of how absolutely  fantastic  it is. I was worried that Clockwork Prince wouldn't live up to the greatness that Clockwork Angel was but it turned out to be just as great, or even better than the first book. This series really never fails to amaze me!I can't even begin to count how many times  my heart broke  and put itself back together again while reading Clockwork Prince. Especially for Will. Poor, William Herondale. All those wasted years, and what it'
I really hope Jessamine redeems herself in Clockwork Princess and finally puts those Shadowhunter abilities to good use 
Jem and Tessa's relationship is 
but I feel like Tessa is only settling for Jem in order to forget about Will.
with the lack of Will and Tessa compared to the first book but I'm hoping now with Will's curse out of the way, we'll be seeing a lot of a Wessa in Clockwork Princess.
I feel like I already know what's coming in Clockwork Princess.
so I'm preparing myself for when/if that time comes because although I'm team Wessa, my Will and Jem bromance shipping heart will break.
3.75 stars! About halfway through this book I started liking it considerably more than the first one. I'm excited for the finale and all the angst. Video to come on my channel, as always.
I simply can't wait! I don't understand why everyone is taking sides. She's so obviously going to choose Will. Why? because she's stupid, just like most girls in books like this. Anyone with a half a brain would choose Jem. Sweet, funny beautiful Jem. I know I would. But hey what can you do?
(I don't mean that in the Victorian sense, but almost having sex with this boy one night and the next night being all over the other one, it is questionable behavior, to say the least.)(view spoiler)[And either the characters are liars or the book needed some editing because Tessa says she must marry Jem because he told her he "thought he would die without ever loving anyone as his father loved his mother, without ever being loved in return." He never said that in any way, shape or form.
I think it's a safe bet (even though I still have the last book in the series to read) that I love TID more than TMI.
I'm not sure why I've taken to them more precisely; maybe it's that I really enjoy the historical setting, the darker, more oppressive atmosphere, and I think my dislike of Jace and indifference to Clary in TMI makes it that much easier to love Tessa, Jem, and even Will.
A lot happened in this book, and just in case I am in fact not the last person on earth to read this, I won't give away any spoilers, but I was particularly pleased to know that my suspicions of a certain character were indeed valid.
So, basically, what I'm trying to say is take this review with a grain of salt; unless you're a total Will fan like me you will probably love this book to pieces, and I'm going to try  really  hard to contain my sadness/anger about it and keep my feelings legible for you all.[image error]See?
Not only did I find the whole drama between Will, Jem, and Tessa really kind of unnecessary because it seems to me and many other people that Tessa is still somehow going to be  with  Will, and now this  really  forces Clare to kill off either Jem or Will in the next book ( as my friend in the comment section of this book quite rightly said, "I want to see some legit pain, you know?
Readers have come to expect certain things from any book written by Cassandra Clare: *Prose that packs a punch, flowing from the gorgeously poetic to the viscerally gritty and back again so seamlessly that you forget you’re reading at all as scenes bleed from the page into your mind’s eye.*Dialogue that is so riotously hilarious that you will quote lines at your friends for ages, as well as dialogue that feels so profoundly personal you want to tattoo it onto your body.*Characters that we genuinely care about.
I kind of wish I had read these books before TMI because they're way more interesting.I absolutely love this time period!
It felt like not too much happened in this book, but I JUST LOVE JEM SO MUCH.
But oh my goodness I cannot stand the way this particular love triangle is being carried out right now.
Maybe if Tessa would actually take action instead of letting everything happen to her, I'd like her more.This book reminded me a lot of The Dark Days Club, so I'm throwing that out there as a recommendation!
*MILD SPOILERS FOR THOSE FEW THAT HAVEN'T READ IT YET*As we know in the first one Tessa's brother Nate got away and he is working with the enemy.
I don't know if I even mentioned in my first review that James Carstairs (Jem) and the love of my clockwork life, has been slowly dying since he was a little boy.
Yes. And there is this little love triangle going on with Tessa, Will and Jem. I hate it.
Anyway, things happen in that area and I'm telling you right now if she hurts Jem I'm going to crawl into the book and beat her arse!
I also love Magnus Bane in the book.
It's very hard to stop loving the world of Shadowhunters and this as usual, stole my heart.In this b
I can't believe I reread this entire book in one sitting! It's amazing to see how much my feelings have changed since I read it the first time. I absolutely love this series and am so unbelievably happy I decided to give it a second chance.
#1 Clockwork Angel ★★★☆☆#2 Clockwork Prince ★★★★☆#3 Clockwork Princess ★★★★★ If you’ve read my Clockwork Angel review, you already know that this series didn’t start out on the right foot with me.
I never thought I would say this about any book in my life, but what finally made me start to love this series wasn’t the plot, or any specific character, or a twist, or a theme… it was the love triangle.
I need to read book 3 right now, even though I feel like I am literally gritting my teeth in preparation for the undeniable heartache barreling towards me.
