https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74998.The_Magic_Faraway_Tree
I feel quite fine and have a great feeling of self satisfaction, because I reread one of the best Children's books that I've read.
Enid Blyton books don't have much depth, but the author knows about storytelling.
Our adventurers Jo, Bessie, Fanny and their cousin Dick mingle with the magic folk, and go up the ladder with mixed results.Sometimes even the benign lands are full of unlooked for dangers.
All things considered, I think the kids have more trouble than fun.
I've been an avid reader of Enid Blyton since I was a kid.
But I think even the Narnia books, which I read later, aren't superior to whatever magical themed books Enid Blyton wrote.
**stamps foot!**Cousin Rick comes to stay: "He is going to stay quite a long time because his mother is ill and can't look after him,"says the children's mother.
Remember this, it will become important in a few sentences.Later in the book the children's mother (sister or sister-in-law to Rick's mother) falls ill.
The children flock up the Faraway Tree and beseech their magical friends for aid.
Really he should sit at the top of the ladder thrusting bottles of the stuff on visitors and telling them they can piss off now.Anyway...
For this reason I had stayed away from my once beloved Enid Blyton, for so long.The Faraway Tree series were particular favourites of mine however, and I had been hankering to revisit them for some time.
Of course there is an element of predictability to the events and the safety of the characters is continually ensured, but the whimsical beauty of the setting, the hilarious anecdotes from the characters, the soaring feats of bravery, the fantastically odd beings, and the wonderful (and sometimes not so) lands visited, all made this an utterly charming read and escape from reality for my my pre-teen, my teenage, and my (now) adult self.
This was my favourite book when I was younger because it’s such an enchanting story.
The story takes place in an enchanted forest in which a gigantic magical tree grows - the enormous "Faraway Tree".
They meet lots of new friends in different parts of the tree like moon face, who has a slippery slide in this house and saucepan man, who wears saucepans over his body and is really funny.
They get to visit lots of different lands like topsy-turvy land and Do-as-you-please land.
It is a magical enchanting book and provokes the imagination in the use of language and descriptions of the tree.
This book shaped much of my childhood.

I read this book with an intermediate ELL student.
It was a dated, yet charming little tale of children who have a magic tree in their backyard that has rotating lands at the top, like The Land of Presents and the Land of Do-As-You-Please.
Some parts were slow and some parts were simply enchanting, and now I want to visit a little market in the sky with a tiny man who has the moon for a face.
A side note: it'll be super fun to try to explain that we shouldn't say 'queer' or 'dick' quite as loosely as they do in this book.
Five stars out of sheer sentimentality. I loved this book as a child and have read it countless times after finding it at a garage sale. I have so many pleasant memories reading this book, it will never leave my bookshelf.
Is this the book that turned me into such a bookworm?
We all loved it.
It was the first chapter book Ethan had the patience for.
The humour is accessible to all which I don't always find as Ethan has yet to pick up references needed for jokes generally.
But he loved all the descriptions of Saucepan's misunderstandings due to deafness.
Will take a bit of a break from it but will have to read the other two in the series.
Here's hoping it turns Ethan into a bookwork too, although I may have lost him to sport...
My review-soon shelf is getting out of control again - been finishing more books than I've been reviewing! - best crack-on...So I didn't love this one at all. Part of that's personal, and part of that's critical. Let's do the personal first...When my son was a tiny baby and my wife was on maternity leave from work, we had a lovely bedtime routine. While Fin had his last feed I would read him a story. We worked our way through  Winnie-the-Pooh  and  Wind in the Willows  amongst others. I loved it
Let's do the personal first...When my son was a tiny baby and my wife was on maternity leave from work, we had a lovely bedtime routine.
Frequently, only one of us was available at a time to put Fin to bed - and I found it hard to read him a story while also giving him his bottle and the lovely routine slipped away (and I missed it).Then my wife changed work and we had more opportunity for bedtime story again - but now Fin was older and didn't want to lay back to hear the story, he wanted picture books he could look at with me.
Return to the Fairy World11 March 2012 Well, I have now read this book, though I will continue to do what I normally do when I wish to revisit a review and that is to keep my older one below (normally because there are still things there that are relevant despite me having reviewed this book without reading it in like 25 years). Now I can also legitimately add it to my reading list as I have now read the book as opposed to my Dad reading it to me when I was six. Once again the adult world seems
Blyton's world of the Enchanted Wood is a realm of very high magic, though it is noticeable that most of the magic occurs within the wood, though all of the characters in the wood are magical in one way or another.
Blyton was never really a fantasy writer, she actually wrote a lot of other stories that were more like mystery stories for kids, however here we have a fairy tale about a magical tree that upon climbing to the top you find yourself in a new magical land.
Well this book was a mess! Missing 33 pages and repeated another 30 through the book!! It's so different reading your favourite childhood book as an adult. It was ok, it was the nostalgia for me that nade me love the experience. I will buy another with all the pages in and read it to my son for him to enjoy.
One of my favourite childhood books.How I wished I could visit those magical lands at the top of the magic faraway tree, eat all the weird and wonderful food they described, and be friends with a fairy and a man with a moon-shaped face!
As a child I was so enchanted with the story, I believed the Enchanted Forest and the Magic Faraway Tree were actually real.
Only a few pages in and this delightful story came rushing back, along with the magical, wishful feelings experienced as a child.
Fanny, Dick, Bessie & Jo, Moon-face, Silky, Saucepan, Dame Wash-a-lot & the Angry Pixie became old friends once again and the lands at the top of the Faraway Tree re-ignited my love of Enid Blyton.
The Land of Do-As-You-Please, The Land of Goodies & The Land of Presents must surely be every child's dreamThe Magic Faraway Tree and other stories by Enid Blyton will always hold a special place in my heart.
ahhhh i wanna plant a tree to take me far far away into a world where i can buy unlimited amounts of books for FREE.onto the review :P this book i have to say was my childhood, well the tv show was. i remember reading the book and my mouth watering at the cakes that exploded with honey mmmh. tbh this is a magical fun read, something you can treasure. a book in which you can see the development in childrens stories, a classic if i must say!
Sin duda uno de mis libros favoritos de la infancia, lo releía una y otra vez!! Eso sí, un fallo gordo que le veo hoy en día es que es un poco sexista en cuanto a los roles de género de los personajes. Pero bueno, creo que la gran mayoría de los libros de la época lo eran.
Funny, I was always on the side of the Cousins, There was a reason why I didn't like Moon-Face and it took a Friend to point out that Moon-Face was too much of a Goody Two Shoes.
Second book in a series by Enid Blyton, published in 1943. Essentially, the continuing adventures of Joe, Bessie and Fanny in the magical tree, its zany inhabitants, and the various lands that can be accessed at the top of the tree, including adventures therein. They are joined by a cousin named Rick, who seems incapable of staying out of trouble. Also, Moonface really should lock the door to his house. A bit simplistic, probably because of its age.
I've read 2 out of the 3 books of The faraway tree.I read the first one years ago. At an age that allowed me to still being hopeful that such a tree exists. I loved it so much as a kid that I once dreamed I had gone up the tree. lol. In my memories, the book was huge and colourful. I came across it in the library some time back. It made me smile to realise that it wasn't such a big book after all. ^^"
i have only enid blyton to thank for introducing to me the wonderful and fascinating world of books. i started pretty late but hers were the books which were a part of my childhood. the faraway tree, the wishing chair, the famous fives, secret sevens, mystery series, noddy series and the circuis books were and still are an all time favourite. somehow all my enid blytons are still kept tucked in a cloth in my cupboard ...i just seem unable to give them away.
1st Gent: Our deeds are fetters that we forge ourselves. 2nd Gent: Ay, truly : but I think it is the world That brings the iron.
I wasn't a reader & a lazy butt.2.
I was clearly wrong and didn't even make an effort to try to read it, I'm sure it would have had an even bigger impact in my life as a reader if I read this at a younger age.My first Enid Blyton and very likely not the last.
I kept reading, some magical lands passed through me and after awhile (perhaps the end of a chapter) I remember looking up and noticing my brother was already dressed, his hair neatly combed to the side and his rucksack squarely placed on his back.
She helped me dress my grey six-year-old-sized pants and remarked that I was addicted."Tás viciado!"I'll never forget that remark because I sensed, dear reader, (and can still sense) that whilst helping me into my white, St. John Rigby School polo, she was secretly proud of my great love for reading.
Likes:What is not to like with a story from Enid Blyton, especially from the first book in the series of the adventures of the faraway tree.
At the time (and I secretly still do) I felt that this book was the best present in the world and made me want to make up my own stories about faraway lands.
To the different lands that visit the tree on a daily basis and the new characters/worlds that are introduced to keep the story fresh and moving along at a good pace.
With all the different lands that visit the tree each day, the reader will never get bored from hearing about the three children's adventures.

This was my favourite series when I was a kid.
I have been waiting years until my kids were old enough to read it to them.
Him (points to boy on cover)Me: Who's that?Her: Don't knowMe: Is that Rick or Joe?Her; Wick (Rick)Me: Which land would you like to go to?Her: Upsydown land (The land of topsy turvy)Me: Why would you like to go there?Her: Because everything is upsydown and I like upsydown (tries to do a handstand)Me: Do you want to read more about them?Her: You know I'm friends with ants.
Just like in the first book, the children have wonderful adventures and also have to work around the home and take care of their family before being able to go outside and play.
I feel this sends a wonderful message to children who read this book and also helps them get carried away with their imaginations.
I found this book just as enjoyable as an adult and so I can highly recommend this series to anyone.
I really enjoyed reading The Enchanted Wood, The Magic Faraway Tree and The Folk of The Faraway Tree.
It has funny characters like Moon-Face, Saucepan Man and Silky the Fairy.
Saucepan Man is always wearing saucepans and kettles.
Silky is a very, very, very nice fairy.
Bessie and Franny move next door to an Enchanted wood, and find the Faraway Tree with its many different places.In The Magic Faraway Tree, Jo, Bessie and Franny take their cousin Rick on an adventure he'll never forget!
I found these books really funny and exciting.
They are fun books to read and make me laugh.
I love saucepan man, Dick irked me a bit as a boy who brings trouble..Moon-face is lovable...It`s basically the characters and the setting that made me fall for this one..Reminds me a lot of Roald Dahl`s books, cause Enid blyton`s was really creative and imaginative..
This is a story about a boy, Dick who was sent for a holiday at his aunt`s house.
As per usual, the kids together with their three other 'humanoid' friends climbed up the hole to venture the strange lands..A good story for those with children, and those with a child heart..I still got mine..It`s in the cupboard...*evil grin*
I can't remember if this was the first Enid Blyton book that I ever read but it was certainly the first one that I can remember buying.
I reread it so many times and although the other adventures of the folk of the Faraway Tree and the children are wonderful, this book is special.
The children introduce the skeptical Dick to the residents of the Enchanted Wood, including Silky and Moonface, and go on more adventures in the lands at the top of the Faraway Tree.
If you've never read a Blyton book, start with this one!
