https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1183835.Galactic_Derelict
It was so bad I hated school and always felt like a failure.
I hated books.
I hated reading.One day, I cut through a church parking lot where they were setting up a rummage sale for the weekend.
I happened to glance down and saw a book cover that stopped me in my tracks.
Through numerous stops and starts, I managed to read the entire novel by Sunday evening as I read about one fantastic alien world after another.
For the first time in my life, I knew I could read and comprehend.I went to the local library and checked out an armful of Andre Norton books.
Rating: 4* of fiveWhat a fun way to recapture the thrills of youth this proved to be.
When I'm reading Grand Master Norton's SF from the 1950s, I'm back in a more hopeful time and I'm given a reason to think that the future will be better than the past.
There are comparatively few ways I feel the world is better now than in 1959.
No one makes any sort of comparison to Apache Travis's heritage that's in any way belittling.What a refreshing thing that is in 2018's poisonous racist climate.
This was bundled with the eBook of 'The Time Traders' by the same author.
It's way better than 'The Time Traders', which was an inferior take on the Burroughs 'capture-escape-capture-escape' format.
This one is more about space travel then time travel.If you bought the eBook combo and abandoned it after 'Time Traders' it's worth picking up and reading.
At less than 200 pages it doesn't take up a lot of reading time.The fourth Norton book I have read and so far I'm not that impressed.
But, I want to give her 'Witch World' books a try before I abandon her completely.
Andre is in FormBefore it was politically correct Andre Norton was populating her books with minority characters and making them people with the same strengths, fears and needs as the majority. Perhaps this is why I have been drawn to her books for over 40 years. Believable characters. This is one of her shorter books and is a nice lead into the next book Defiant Agents. It is a quick read but very satisfying.
They get this ALIEN spaceship from back in time and transport it to NOW. Well it accidentally takes off with the guys in it and goes home! But home is a zillion years later, so they land and these ports of call, each giving a tantalizing look at a bygone race of aliens in their crumbling cities, etc. NICE. ONE OF MY FAVORITES.
Andre Norton wrote some very good science adventure novels. She was an important writer of the early 50's on. Galactic derelict is the second in her Time Trader series. In this one, the time traders find a whole alien space ship back in Earth's past. The crew was killed by some disease or something. As the time traders are bringing the ship back to the present, something triggers the ship to take off, carrying four time traders with it. The adventures they fall into during their unexpected trip make up this novel. And Andre Norton is up to the task.
Travis is out in the desert, having a good ol' time looking for water when he stumbles upon our favorite Time Traders, gets himself captured and, because people willing to sacrifice their lives for science ain't that common, ends up in the team.
And this time, the Time Traders are searching for something and to find it, they need to go back, way back: to the time when man hunted mammoths and had no idea what personal hygiene meant.
This aliens are up to a fight.And while the book raises more questions than the answers it gives, it was a chilling, suspenseful, I-need-to-know-what-happens-next read.
7 books in this series, 5 more to go.
This adventure sci-fi novel has a plot hatched through pure bad luck in timing, which is odd in itself because it happens to a group of time agents.
While trying to recover an advanced spaceship from 12,000 years in Earth's past, three time agents and one unlucky tech take refuge from a volcanic eruption and stampeding wooly mammoths inside the vessel.
12,000 years ago.I was fully engrossed into this second installment of the time traders saga almost from page one.
I found this one to be right up my alley, and I highly recommend it to anyone who loves good old-fashioned adventure sci-fi.
It turns out the guy is part of a group of men who plan to go back into the past and examine a crashed alien spaceship.The spaceship exists at a time when mammoths and like animals still lived on the earth.
They manage to get there, but the ship they get into is brought into the present and then launches itself, sending the small group of men on an adventure to other worlds.They visit a refueling station run by robots, a world of sand with some kind of hidden intelligent dangers, and another world with ruins of various buildings and life forms that are both friendly and dangerous.The task they then face is trying to figure out how to get back to earth, and to the earth of the correct time.The book was originally copyrighted in 1959.

In book #2 of the Time Traders series, Travis Fox, an Apache rancher, stumbles on a time-travel project and is recruited for it.
Sent back to prehistoric America, he and his team seek advanced techology left by a space faring race of aliens.
What they find is an intact alien spaceship.
Attempting to bring the entire spaceship through the time portal, they succeed in activating the engines.
What they find are the remmants of the the alien civilization.
What happened to their civilization?
Will Travis and friends make it back to their own world?
I'm not sure which books were the very first SF novels I ever read, but I know I read Time Traders and Galactic Derelict as a teenager in the 1960's.
I liked both, but the "tour of the galaxy's worlds" in Galactic Derelict especially impressed me and left me with fond memories.
I'm not sure how much I'd like it as an older adult with many years of SF and science reading behind me.
I have an ebook of it from Baen that I got thinking I'd give it a try, but I haven't done it yet.I haven't had any children of my own, so I'm not familiar enough with how this compares to modern YA reading.
I really enjoyed this it was a bit slow to start , but as the story started to unfold I was unable to put the book down.It is a classic sci=fi written in the 1950's it is the second in the series, the first book is called "Time Traders" which was a brilliant read from the first page, this series has 8 stories in and I plan on reading every single one of them.The second book in the series sees them going into space and visiting other planets, hope all those who love Sci-fi give this a chance.
I've been re-reading Andre Norton's 1950s series The Time Traders, that I first read when I was 10 or 12 or something like that. They are simplistic, of course, but I am enjoying re-experiencing the adventures. All four novels can be downloaded from Amazon in kindle format for free.In this volume, Ross Murdoch and companions travel blindly in a Baldie spaceship that crashed on Earth in a past era, just ahead of their Cold War rivals. This is one of the novels I remember best.
Cold war young adult/boy's adventure in time & space. A lot lighter on the cold war theme than the first book in the series, this one makes good on the promise made in Time Traders of space adventure as the team find themselves the accidental crew of a twelve thousand year old space ship's attempt to return home.I liked it. It was a fast read with a straightforward plot with a couple of interesting bits.
This is an Andre Norton novel I read in the 60's. I enjoyed it. In Galactic Derelict, Travis (an Apache) stumbles upon a group about to travel to prehistoric times. He ends up going to the past with them. They all have an interesting series of adventures - including being trapped on a traveling space ship.
I remembered this Andre Norton book the most vividly from my childhood due to the settings and unusual (for the time) viewpoint of the main character. I'm pleased to see it has held up well upon a re-read.
great read in another classic Sci-Fi from the masterful Andre Norton (born Alice Mary Norton, February 17, 1912 – March 17, 2005)features the use of recovered alien technology, to enable humans travel to the stars
Another early one that I read from Andre Norton. I remember how intrigued I was when they discovered an intact spaceship in the distant past, and how they shipped it through time but then it took off with people aboard. Wonderful story.
This second book in this series took the me on a really interesting ride. I liked how the author shaped the world and how even though most stuff was alien it still held some semblance to our world. I give this 4 out of 5 stars
When I read this in sixth grade, I was hooked for life. I had to find a better dictionary than I then had to understand the title, but that was only after I'd already read it, having been sucked in by the cover illustation and not been disappointed.
Great old style science fiction romp. I particularly like the way he raises the issue of racism without preaching, keeping in perspective when the book was written I think it was quite effective, but did not distract from the story.
I read Galactic Derelict as a kid, but for most of my adult life I couldn't remember the name or author - I just had a vague memory of a yellow cover with a round spaceship blasting off.
A recent discussion with my Dad rekindled my interest in tracking the book down.
(I think I might track down the others, however, as I did enjoy re-reading this one.)Galactic Derelict is a fun adventure tale that primarily involves a group of (Earth) men trapped on an alien spaceship.
It's not that deep in either plot or characterization, but it involves time travel, galactic exploration, alien worlds and spaceships.
Discounted version | Unsure why the second book in the series is apparently the only one not reprinted by Open Road Media, but it's still available inexpensively.
It does seem to be an updated version, though, mainly that's clear through use of the term "Russians" as opposed to "Reds".
Fox was really quite good, and Renfry was a better addition than expected, though he didn't get much sketching out, which makes me feel better about the possibility of future books in the series adding protagonists and changing perspectives.
It's always hard to be sure how I feel before I've read the whole thing, but I lean positively toward this so far.
Andre Norton was the first science fiction author that I ever read (in the sixties), and I am going back and re-reading some of them. This is one of my favorites and I would give it 4.5 stars if I could. It is listed on the cover as book # 2 in the Ross Murdock series, but the main character is Travis Fox, an Apache Indian. Ross is a secondary character. Four Americans are accidentally whisked into space by an ancient alien spacecraft. They have many amazing adventures as only Norton could write. Highly recommended.
Times have changedMaybe I was 12 when I read this many years ago. Story is unremarkable, characters are shallow, writing is competent. But I can see how I would have enjoyed this -- time travel, interstellar space, alien worlds -- all fun stuff. But plot holes are many and coincidences too plentiful.
Did we really need to continuously refer to Travis as "the Apache?" (No, we did not not).Other than that, I found this one less engaging than the first one. Oh well, I'll probably read the next one anyway.
Old- Fashion Sci-Fi Adventure A nice, action-packed sci-fi adventure written in the Cold War era. Adventure involving time travel, an alien spacecraft, and alien worlds. Part of the "Time Trader" series. Great for adolescents and teens.
It is not very often that sequels are as good as the original, but this was extreme. Thank goodness it was only short.
It's ok It was recommend by another author as an inspiring book of his youth. Maybe if I'd found it 50 years ago I'd have thought so too.
