https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15672.The_Strangers_in_the_House

First published in 1940, a Georges Simenon non-Maigret roman durs or “hard novel,” a penetrating psychological study of Hector Loursat, a man who was a brilliant attorney in his younger days, awakened from his eighteen-year hermit-like existence by a murder committed in his own house.
Of the five or six Simenons I've read, The Strangers In the House strikes me as the one generating the most narrative pleasure.
At the core of the novel is a man, Loursat, a lawyer, who has lived a deadened life since his wife left him for another man eighteen years ago.
Instead of hauling each witness through the dock, Simenon let's us know of all the preparation that has gone into the defense and, while the prosecutor is prattling on and everyone listens, Loursat mentally makes his argument, mostly by recalling bits of deposed testimony.
In the ungenerous, critical light of the morning after, The Strangers in the House is probably just a three star book, but because I read a good chunk of it in the middle of the night, with the rain listlessly tapping on the roof and myself burrowed under a blanket to escape the pre-autumn chill, I awarded it an additional associative star.
Simenon's The Strangers in the House is, in essence, a novel of detection—which is to say there is a murder mystery and it needs solving.
If you intend on reading The Strangers in the House because you like mysteries or detective novels, you're in for a big disappointment.
I personaggi di Simenon escono fuori dalla carta. E siccome non sono mai stinchi di santo, condividi con loro per tutta la lettura i vizi, le miserie, gli errori... ma anche l'umanità. E alla fine li assolvi, in barba a tutta la giustizia terrena. O sei costretto a guardarli con compassione.Una penna magica quella di Simenon.
Imbeciles! A whole town of fools, of wretched human beings who didn't know why they were alive, who were moved along like cattle, complete with yoke and bell!(p. 153)
من این کتاب رو با فرض اینکه یه کتاب جنایی و کارآگاهیه بدست گرفتم اما گرچه فضای کلی اثر در مورد یک جنایت بود اما بیشتر باید اونو یه کتاب روانشناسانه و انسانی دونستداستان، داستان وکیلی است که بواسطه ی جنایتی که توسط عده ای از جوونا در خونه اش انجام میشه از عزلت خودخواسته اش، بعد از فرار همسرش با یکی دیگه، بیرون می آید.
اما نفس داستان به نظرم خوندن داره؛ البته این در صورتی بود که مترجم و ویراستارها این اجازه رو می دادن.
ترجمه از نظر معادل های فارسی گزیده شده، البته اونجا که فهمیده منظورو، مشکل خاصی نداره اما آشفتگی و بی ربطی بعضی از جملات نشون می ده که مترجم در فهم منظور متن اصلی مشکل داشته و این مشکلات انقدر هست که آزارنده بشه تو کتاب.
Loursat has decided to live as a "hermit," and he and his daughter have been virtual strangers her entire life, with Nicole's upbringing having been put into the hands of one of the "domestics." Lousart has during this time followed a regular routine -- several bottles of burgundy, followed by time spent reading in his study or his bedroom, and quiet dinners with his daughter where neither made any attempt at conversation.
Lousart's life is about to change, though, with the discovery of a dead stranger in his house, which also leads to his own realization about himself: that "he'd never tried to live -- not in the ordinary sense of the word." There's much, much more, of course, but I'll leave it all for anyone who may be interested in reading this novel.
Gli sconosciuti in casaC’è un lieve ma significativo scarto fra il titolo originale di questo romanzo e la versione italiana.
Ma una particolarità decisiva nella figura dell’avvocato Loustat rispetto alla maggior parte degli antieroi simenoniani è che il percorso interiore dell’uomo nel corso del romanzo, invece di precipitare nel buio e nel pessimismo (come i protagonisti degli ultimi due Simenon che ho letto: “Il piccolo libraio di Archangelsk” e “Le signorine di Concarneau”) procede verso una sorta di riscatto, una rinnovata curiosità per il mondo e le sue imperfette creature da parte di una sensibilità che sembrava definitivamente ottenebrata e smarrita.

January 29, 2011,I just re-read the book and my overall thoughts are the same, but what impresses me about Simenon''s writing is how he portrays a very strange and sort of scary world.
What set it off was his wife running off with someone else many years back - yet I suspect that wasn't the reason for his drinking and his disgust for the culture around him (Occupation?)In fact he pretty much ignores the world around him - including things that go bump into his household.
Not my favorite Simenon, but nevertheless an interesting book, in context with the world at the time.
****.This is certainly among the best of Simenon’s “psychological novels.” The story here takes a close look at a lawyer who has withdrawn from society, to the point where he doesn’t even know what is going on in his own house.
When he goes to the other wing of the house and climbs to an upper story, he finds a man in one of the bedrooms; he had been shot and killed.
He later learns that his daughter, along with several other young people from the village, had formed a club which met once a week in his house – again, without his knowing it.
A murder in his house changes the balance of things in the household and Loursat, a lawyer, even decides to take on the defense of his daughter's unjustly accused young lover.There is much here about the petite and haute bourgeousie, small town life, the deadening of doing what's expected.
He did things he had long since forgotten--or that he still did, only without realizing he was doing them--like turning up his overcoat collar, thrusting his hands deep in the pockets, and savoring the cold and the rain, the strange reflections of the sparkling streets."Very much unlike the other novels of his I've read.
When the cops arrest Emile, Nicole's lover (another surprise for Loursat!), the old man is finally moved to become a father once more to his daughter, rejoin the world and mount Emile's legal defense.I was fairly familiar with the story, having seen two of the (at least) four movies based on it: Les Inconnus dans la Maison (1942) and the much inferior Stranger in the House (1967).
I actually found that this air of unreality was part of what kept me rapt, but it does detract from The Strangers in the House as a mystery novel.And that's not the only reason to quibble.
I still haven't read Maigret, but I've become addicted to the romans dur, mostly because New York Review of Books has been republishing them in stylish, haute-noir paperbacks.I started with Three Bedrooms in Manhattan, then sped through The Engagement (source for Leconte's great late 80s movie Monsieur Hire), The Man Who Watched Trains Go By, Dirty Snow, Tropic Moon, and most recently, Red Lights.
Hector Loursat, the stranger at the heart of this book ("dirty, drunk, unloved and unloving" according to the blurb), redeems himself – something most Simenon characters would find inconceivable.
There is in all the novels of Simenon a high weight on his characters.
They are not free.
They are the toys of their destiny.
They evolve to their inevitable tragedy because they are resigned to being the slave of their passion.
There is Greek tragedy in these novels.One summer I decide to read all Simenon's book in Pléiade collection.There is something which trouble me in this incapacity to be able to act on his fate.I think we have always the choice.However Simenon is an immense writer and not only for thrillers.
This one tells the history of a kind of redemption for an alcoholic lawyer.
La rivedeva come quando era bambino o giovanotto, la ritrovava come quando ci tornava in vacanza a Parigim, all'epoca in cui studiava legge.Camminando per le strada, rendendosi conto della realtà che lo contorna, indigando su ogni tassello che potrebbe comportare la condanna o la salvezza di Emile Manu, Loursat si risveglia e si meraviglia del banale, risconprendo la vita anche nella sua forma più piccola.Gli eventi recenti e le storie che si svolgono, tornanto a sfiorare il passato, chiedendosi cosa abbia portato Loursat a divenire cosa è nel corso delle pagine.Altrettanto interessante è come il vecchio non volga lo sguardo all'indietro ripensando alla casa e alla moglie che lo ha abbandonato, ma anche osservando la compagnia poco raccomandabile a cui Nicole e Manu si sono uniti, prima una e poi l'altro.

"E Loursat, sempre da solo, ancora dignitoso, se ne stava seduto al tavolo di un bistrot, davanti a un bicchiere di vino rosso."Mi è difficile esprimere la gioia, mista a tristezza, quando si termina un libro come questo.Un libro che ho divorato voracemente, appassionandomi alla figura dell'avvocato Loursat e alla sua vita sedentaria, introversa, tra un bicchiere di vino e la lettura di qualche libro.
Da sfondo (e nemmeno tanto) a tutto ciò, avremo una banda di giovani, di diversa estrazione sociale, e un omicidio.
questo libro mi ha fatto venir voglia di leggere tutto Simenon!
Osservatori sotterranei.Succede che a saper leggere la vita sia proprio chi, quella stessa vita, non ha mai neppure tentato, forse, di viverla. Ombre, più che uomini, che nel buio di stanze piene di libri e sigarette, di vino e di torpore, coltivano la capacità di scorgere il vero, le intime leve di ogni gesto. E che sia uno sguardo o un omicidio, non ha poi così importanza.
The Wilt Chamberlain of French letters.http://www.thelmagazine.com/4/23/book...
Loursat doesn't pass judgment, not even when he figures out (pretty quickly) that Nicole and Emile are lovers, while for almost everyone else there are reputations and the like to consider.The courtroom drama isn't particularly exciting, almost as if Simenon couldn't be bothered to be more creative in coming up with a whodunit (and how the person is discovered) -- but then this is a story where life is meant to be just as banal and simple as ...
Slowly, the events of that night begin to draw Loursat himself back toward life.The Strangers in the House is the first novel I’ve read by Georges Simenon, and I wouldn’t be surprised if, when I reach next January, it’s still the best novel that I’ve read for the year.
Instead, it’s a psychological sort of mystery, with Loursat studying himself and the characters of those around him, to reach an understanding.In the end, I found the novel to be pretty well entirely satisfying.
It’s a subtle mystery story.
But more than that, I found the novel to be a rich, realistic, and oddly hopeful study of character.
I appreciate his emotionally cerebral approach and find all his stories appealing.Loursat is a difficult character to warm up to.
As all of Simenon’s characters, Loursat is heavily flawed, with few redeeming qualities.
Simenon’s writing pulls the reader through once again creating the edge solely relying on Loursat.
His affecting characterization in tandem with solid writing conveys the atmosphere perfectly.Loursat’s years of drinking should have killed him, his road to sobriety seems a miracle given his history and short time without drink, plausibility heavily questioned.
Despite my dislikes it’s still a worthwhile read, writing alone makes the effort gratifying.
This is one of Simenon's "romans durs," or "hard novels," an intimate exploration of a lawyer named Loursat who has essentially barricaded himself in his house for eighteen years after being abandoned by his wife.
He drinks and reads books and cuts himself off from those around him, including his daughter, who was two when Loursat's wife left him.
Loursat comes alive when he discovered that a murder has taken place in his house, and he uncovers a hidden life outside his padded study.
I loved the first Simenon I read (Dirty Snow) and hoped this would be as good.
Simenon again creates a character on the edge of society, this time it is Loursat a disgraced, former lawyer who has fallen from an elite to a drunken recluse.
And like Dirty Snow, the book just seems to end as if the other ran out of gas or got bored with it.
As the third stay says when you "mouse over it", I liked this book, but I wanted to love it.
Loursat notifies the police, and an investigation is begun.
It's a fun and spooky start, with a promising mystery and interesting characters.
Loursat, jolted by the crime, realizes all he has missed by isolating himself in drinks and books.
The shift--from a murder mystery to a legal-crime thriller--is fine, but Simenon is much more skilled at the former than the latter.
Moreover, as with all the Simenon books I've read recently, the ending is abrupt and random.
It reads as if Simenon wanted to end the book, so he could begin writing another.
The pleasures of this book come from subtle moments - an elegant piece of description, the natural interplay of diction between the main character's inner world and the world around him.
Certainly, a lot of what I liked about this novel was the economic way he was able to use language to convey two distinct and interesting storylines: one psychological, the other within the constraints of the genre.I've read Paul Theroux compare Simenon to Camus (http://entertainment.timesonline.co.u...), and I have to admit I like the comparison.
The moments of angst in this book, occur as a matter of realism in the pragmatic portrayal and haunting dilemmas of Loursat, the main character.I really like this author.
Georges Simenon is one of the world’s most prolific crime writers.
I particularly like his Inspector Maigret stories.
I liked it also.
Always the mystery of the crime is secondary.
It is the mystery of the people his protagonist engages with that keeps one reading.
A gang of youths is living in a morose defense attorney’s house, where he lives as a drunk hermit after his wife abandoned him; completely unaware of this group of young people who hover around his daughter like moths around a flame.
The young boy in love with the lawyer’s daughter is accused.
It's always nice to read a book that doesn't waste a word, especially when it manages to touch on so many things, despite the economy.
If you want an example of the blurry lines between literary and genre fiction, you can't do much better than the Strangers in the House, which manages to be a police procedural, a meditation on solitude, an existential novel, and a social drama, all at once.
Naturally, he decides to investigate, and in doing so he drags up a whole host of unpleasantness everyone else in town would like to hush up, preferably by pinning the crime on an unfortunate young man with no money and no class position.I really can't recommend this book highly enough.
