https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32332902-sex-rage
😍THIS BOOK ❤ I'm thanking Belletrist from the bottom of my heart for choosing the re-release of this 1979 classic as their July book club pick - I absolutely LOVE THIS BOOK. And I can't write a review of it since it's older than I am (just barely!) and everything I say will be redundant. I will say that there is almost NO SEX (or rage!) though, and it completely defied all of my expectations. This book is whip-smart and lush and I wanted to highlight 90% of it. It's sweet and terse and hopeful a
😍THIS BOOK ❤️ I'm thanking Belletrist from the bottom of my heart for choosing the re-release of this 1979 classic as their July book club pick - I absolutely LOVE THIS BOOK.
I will say that there is almost NO SEX (or rage!) though, and it completely defied all of my expectations.
And I'm keeping this copy forever because I want to be the kind of person who has a book titled SEX AND RAGE on my living room family bookshelf ~ my kids no longer even think twice when they see this one lying around!
Loved it.
I really, really wanted to like this book. It came so highly recommended. However, by modern standards it reads like some stream of consciousness fever dream, like it's poorly edited. She has a beautiful authorial voice, but my god is it tedious to read.
Faux naïf and picaresque are two new words I learned reading reviews of Babitz's work and life during the time this collection of scenes was written.
Paris Review compared Babitz to Lispector, both in the obsession with the space between words and meaning, and then again that both women were badly burned; Babitz from the hot ash of a cigar she was smoking that fell in her lap.
The book I read had entertained a previous reader who began with pencil parentheses sparsely; soon crowding the page.
Open this book anywhere, and you'll find one or two or three of the best sentences you've read, nestled in a paragraph you'll read twice.
SEX AND RAGE by Eve Babitz - This was the July book club pick for Belletrist - So far I've been so impressed with the thoughtful selections by Belletrist.
Babitz has such a way with words, it makes me swoon.
I really had no expectations when I started, other than what I inferred from the really cool title and cover.
And by the way, don't judge this book by it's title, SEX AND RAGE, unless you add its subtitle: "ADVICE TO YOUNG LADIES EAGER FOR A GOOD TIME".
I think the next one I'll pick up by Babitz is SLOW DAYS, FAST COMPANY.
Deathly dull. Literally nothing happens in this book, and its way too much "telling" with very little "showing." The title of this book is far and away the most interesting part. It was helpful in getting me in the right mood to sleep on a bus though.
Sex and Rage mostly takes place in the City of Angels during the late '60s and '70s, and is a thinly veiled memoir of the author, who, as an "It" Girl and groupie during this time, had an insider's view of the beautiful, wealthy, and fabulously eccentric people that populate her small circle of friends.
The golden statuette of a tangoing couple on the jacket of Eve Babitz's second novel, Sex and Rage, anticipates Babitz's later real-life interest in dance and mirrors the metaphorical tango of Sex and Rage's main characters: a surfer-artist adventuress modeled after Babitz herself, and a sexually ambiguous courtier of sorts to wealthy gadabouts who briefly make Los Angeles their playground.
This is a much better book than L.A. Woman, Babitz's second and final novel, and because I liked L.A. Woman without loving it, I was in no special hurry to read Sex and Rage after buying a copy on Amazon two years ago for $15 or so.
I was provided Sex and Rage from Goodreads in exchange for an honest review.Firstly, I thought this was a new book.
I get the distinct feeling she was like the Kardashians of her time.I wanted to read Sex and Rage because the blurb spoke of a strong young woman growing up in LA and taking life head on.
The book is essentially 3 acts.
Young, glowing, full of life 1st act.
And the 3rd, fairly short, getting my shit together act.Without providing spoilers, the second act dominates the book and while the blurb talks about an unrequited love...
I HATED jacaranda.
In my opinion she was so problematic and self absorbed when she was a walking disaster.
The self pity was REAL.
Also, her obsession with Max was pathetic and made zero sense.
I was waiting for there to be some sort of climax and it never happened.
I read in a review that it was supposed to be about her getting revenge on Max for messing her up, but the revenge never happened?
I also read somewhere that this was meant to be a loose memoir?
If that's true, I would have hated Babitz as a person.
Reading Eve’s Hollywood a few months ago I found myself flabbergasted that such a vibrant, interesting, commercially viable force had more or less disappeared; this book, Babitz’s third and the first to fictionalize her experience as LA ingenue and rock and roll muse, goes a fair way towards explaining the mystery. It is utter shit—badly plotted, sloppily written, and more self-indulgent than second-rate fan fiction. I could go on for about ten more sentences to this effect but what would be the point? Better to move on awkwardly.
beautiful white girl with beautiful white girl problems. too much drugs, alcohol, sex, celebrity, etc. Babitz's writing is lovely, and she has crafted some interesting characters, but still, I was bored.
Very dream like quality,but overall I just did not "get it" and for the life of me I don't understand the obsession with Max and the whole book revolving around her "revenge" and fear of him,as I'm very sure he was not straight. To each his own,but this book just wasn't my cup of tea.
I love immersing myself in the lives of women who would never associate with me, and I seem to be really into California right now. Basically, this was a fun one.
Perfection.
I heard the author in conversation at the Hammer.
She was lively, engaging, and the talk was so much fun.
She used to be Ed Ruscha's girlfriend.
She's the naked, curvaceous young woman playing chess with an elderly, dignified Marcel Duchamp in an unforgettable photograph (apparently, all he said when he saw her was "Alors!").
But this book I did not care for.
It had fun and witty moments, but basically it is all about how charming and brilliant and wonderful is the protagonist (clearly the author).
Almost embarrassingly so because it seemed so transparent, but a combination of warmth and pity stop me from going that far.
Eve Babitz is such an extraordinary storyteller. I could read about people living in L.A., drinking their pain away, and talking about nothing ALL DAY LONG.She is able to make every character instantly interesting, even the ones you're supposed to dislike or would dislike in real life.I'm pretty sure Babitz is a cat person so she instantly had my respect as soon as a cat named Emilio was mentioned.
Eve Babitz kind of writes one book over and over but I really delight in that one book so whatever
Four stars only because it's not my favorite Eve. But it's still Eve, and it's wonderful.
Babitz is glorious as a writer, the work hums with the fastness of the era, of the good time unapologetic choices that Jacaranda makes, doing so with such easy going nature you are desperate for the drugs she’s on.The book has several main characters, two of them cities (LA and NYC), who are plumped up in their finery to show you what they are really like.
The only way to capture the essence of the era and the city would have been to live it as wildly and as fully as Babitz.
I hate writing bad reviews for books. I tried so hard to like this book. You know the feeling when you read something, and as soon as you finish you forget what you have just read, and have to reread it? That was me throughout this whole book. I really wish I liked it but it just wasn’t engaging enough for me.
If Joan Didion and Shonda Rimes wrote a book together, you might get something like this. Little sex and little rage are present here in their literal forms - but the California ocean waves, Hollywood soapiness, and drama of publishing and the LA and NY elite abound in dreamy vignettes. So thrilled that I encountered this book, and I'm about to go read every other thing Babitz has written.
There's a lot more going on here than what the lithe, dreamy writing would have you believe.
Much like Eve Babitz herself whose beauty and charisma distracted from her true depth and the sharpness of her mind.
I'm not going to lie: my reading of Sex and Rage was skewed towards my fascination with the glorious creature that is Eve Babitz.
It does help to know a little bit about her when going into this book.I read with a stupid smile on my face.
I became infatuated with her people because she believed them to be worthy.
I have seen this book around a lot and the title always made me unsure. I went to Wordstock and Counter Point was there and they convinced me to give it try. I am so glad I did. Eve Babitz has won me over and her writing has something in it that makes me want to read all of her work right away. Do not let the title turn you away this is a great coming of age story. Highly recommend!!
I loved this from start to finish. It’s implausible as all get out but the prose is poetic and I certainly see how it influenced a lot of the LA magical realism books I loved in middle and high school.
Not much sex, very little rage, but a great tango of literary novel and memoir. Eve Babitz tells her own story of the 1970s through the eyes of Jacaranda, a California surfer girl with glossy friends and a yen to be someone with something to say. The writing is lush and dreamy, the metaphors funny, often brilliant. Worth reading for a nostalgic look at LA and NYC thorough the eyes of a sharp observer with a wild imagination and a romantic heart.
I love Eve Babitz’s nonfiction and personal essays, and I hated this novel! Why! Am I tired of reading about LA? Beyond that, am I tired of reading about New York?
1. You will fiercely fall in love with the real California.The California of beaches and sunrises, of cotton dresses and sandals, of girls with no make up on, and waves, a sea of waves.2.
A lot of life is like surfing.
Not two waves are the same, and you cannot really predict how a wave is going to crash, yet you prepare, and you can tell, because you feel it in your gut.3.
Everybody feels like an impostor.
The 70ies were a lot like the 2010ies.
I really wanted to like this book and was eager to get it from the library, so that is why I’m so upset that it wasn’t a great book. I was into it in the beginning, jacaranda the surfer exploring people and personalities but then the plot started straying and the story momentum stalled. I had high hopes but was sadly disappointed.
I really enjoyed this hard-to-find book by one of my favorite authors, the delightful and underrated Eve Babitz. I have read most of her other (sadly) out of print works, but never this one before. Thanks again to Jeff for sending this to me. (See my September 2011 GR review of “Eve’s Hollywood” http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26...)
I absolutely love this book. I love her name, her pure freedom, and her entirely human downfall.
