https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66003.Sartoris
Sartoris: William Faulkner's Creation of Yoknapatawpha County   William Faulkner at the University of Virginia, 1957  "No man is himself, he is the sum of his past.” Faulkner in the University, University of Virginia Press, 1995 February 7, 2012I graduated from the University of Alabama in 1973. I went there intending to become a professor of history. I changed my mind during a lecture my second semester in the History of Western Civilization when a college athlete began snoring behind me as one
As everyone experiences at one time or another, I wondered, "What if I had..."Before I left, I went to the Faulkner Room in the John Williams Library on the Campus of the University of Mississippi.
"To Sherwood Anderson through whose kindness I was first published with the belief that this book will give him no reason to regret it"Each year I am drawn to William Faulkner country.
Joseph Blotner,Faulkner: A Biography, two volumes, Random House, New York, 1974.Young Bayard Sartoris returns to Jefferson after World War One. He and his twin brother John had been fighter pilots.

Aplauso de pie y ovación del coliseo. Mi segunda aproximación a la obra de Faulkner me entusiasma todavía más que la primera. Si  Luz de agosto  me había dejado electrizado, Sartoris consiguió regalarme cuatro días intensos en la fuerza de su brutalidad y su belleza.La trama, zurcida en una novela familiar abarcando la zaga de tres generaciones, no deslumbra en eventos increíbles, en grandiosos actos. Es sencilla, cotidiana, pero descansa tranquila en personajes tan bien elaborados, tan maravill
La zaga de los Sartoris está fincada en el orgullo y la muerte, y asistimos a las consecuentes escenas de ese sino milenario.
Veremos, sobre todo eso, un canto a la vida y al cariño cuando no pueden ser expresados, cuando se creció para mirarlos con el desdén de los conquistadores por el terreno conquistado.No es la novela, sin embargo, una narración oscura.
Esa potencia de los personajes es, creo, el mayor signo de la obra.La vida incontenible enfrentada a la muerte inamovible.
Not only was Faulkner's prose so beautifully composed between the covers, but, in this book, I found some of the most incredible characters I've ever met.
Some may find it odd that old man McCallum rates as one of my favorite characters since his presence is minimal in the book.
Faulkner's portrayal of the black servants throughout the novel could be very off-putting to any reader who doesn't consider the time and point of view from which this book is written.
Casi me siento culpable al darle solo tres estrellas a Sartoris, pero durante prácticamente toda su lectura he experimentado una especie de alejamiento, la sensación de que la historia no me importaba demasiado, que ese retrato de una familia en decadencia no me llegaba, excepto en el pasaje en el que Bayard visita a los McCallum.
Los personajes son algo planos y aburridos (solo el joven Bayard me parece un personaje tridimensional y con un bagaje muy interesante) y hay muchas escenas que pecan de reiterativas, que subrallan demasiado lo que uno ya ha entendido (pese a que, paradójicamente, Faulkner, al menos en esta novela, demuestra ser ese tipo de escritor al que no le gusta sobreinformar al lector, muy parecido a Cormac McCarthy).
عن اضمحلال الجنوب الأمريكى، بمشاهد قصيرة إيقاعها بطيئ مرسومة بتأنّ ٍ كأنها مشاهد ميتة وثابتة . جمل طويلة ومركبة.. أجمل ما يمكن أن يصل إليه التعقيد. فى الجزء الأخير والأعظم فى الرواية، الإحساس بالانحلال والنهاية الشاثع فى الجو كنسيم من البداية سيزيد تركيزه و سيظلّ الكاتب عبر حوالى خمسين صفحة يوترك بانتظار الموت، فتظل تتنفس ببطءعلى الحافة إلى أطول فترة ممكنة فى حشد مكثف من علامات الموت وانبعاث صور الماضى............من أكثر الأساليب التى أثرت فى ماركيز .. تأثيرا يكاد أحيانا يكون حرفياترجمة عظيمة لميخائيل رومان
This book is full of humor, despair, confusing interpersonal interactions, the casually accepted racism of the early-20th-century South, and really vigorous, gorgeous (if sometimes kind of adjectival and adverby) prose.
The Sartoris men are insufferable (and cyclically so), Miss Jenny a hoot, Narcissa and Horace mostly puzzling, and Simon and family caricaturish and problematically delightful.
The Snopes side plot is kind of weird and seems like maybe it should have been cut along with the other stuff that was cut as this book transformed from the unpublishable Flags in the Dust into Sartoris.
The first novel of his I read, and the first he set in Yawknapatapha County, and maybe the third he wrote, Flags in the Dust, the original title, which upon rejection by a publisher was rewritten by his agent and published in 1928. Pretty good for an early work, no stylistic excurses, straightforward reconstruction story as I recall a half century later.
Sartoris is the first novel Faulkner located in Yoknapatawpha County where he would go on to set fourteen more novels.
In it he introduces the Sartoris family but the Snopes are also present in this early novel.
He tells the story of a Southern family of the 'romantic' type, exhibiting chivalry and courage in a haughty and sometimes vain style.
Bayard the younger, his grandfather is also a Bayard, comes home after the Great War and succeeds in demonstrating a recklessness that is more in tune with the times than traditional Sartoris family life is comfortable with.
Thus there is the tension between tradition and modernity that permeates the novel.
The first thing I noticed about the book is that Faulkner's writing is so evocative and descriptive but also insightful and moving all at once.
He creates atmosphere like no other writer I've ever read, and of course, he's very attentive to the specifics of place and time that root the reader in the world he's creating.
The plot of the book is a bit messy, but I don't think it's a book to read for a tightly-wound narrative.
I'll be reading more Faulkner in the future, no doubt about it.
Not that the men of the Sartoris family, all endlessly named and re-named John and Bayard, need any particular innovations to live recklessly and die young, supported throughout by the "passive courage" of their womenfolk.This is Faulkner's third, the one where he is said to have hit his mature style and this publication is apparently a drastically edited version of a manuscript that was published at full-length and posthumously as Flags In The Dust.
My copy, a 50 cent Signet paperback from 1958, with a cover design trying hard to make it look like a potboiler, has an introduction by mid-century novelist and book reviewer Robert Cantwell (not to be confused with the American Studies professor and bluegrass scholar of the same name).
Esta foi uma das vezes, ler Sartoris até ao fim foi um autêntico martírio!Uma leitura que nunca me prendeu, um enredo tenebroso e sem chama onde a narrativa nos cai "do céu" sem uma linha de orientação, sem o mínimo nexo aparente..
As 300 e tal páginas de Sartoris rapidamente se desdobraram para mais do dobro, tal a quantidade de vezes que voltava atrás e lia 2 ou mais vezes a mesma página..Sei que há quem adore este tipo de literatura, aliás não é por acaso que Faulkner é prémio Nobel, mas para mim não dá!
...Bayard Sartoris returned to his hometown from the battlefields of the First World War, bought a sports car and drove it so hazardously as if he wanted to experience the danger and speed of the patrol flight during which his tween brother John had been shot down.
He spent several months in the Sartoris family house, enough time to ride wild horses, to hunt, to marry a woman, to cause a car accident that resulted in his grandfather's death, and left his pregnant wife and the hometown forever...
i got confused at first... Faulkner suddenly throws out so many different Sartoris that it got kind of hard for me to keep up with everyone, but as novels unfolds, little by little things start to make more sense, until I realized it wasn't at all about the individuals in this particular family, but on the weight of its name. To be proud and ashamed of a name, to carry the weight of it.
Continuo fascinada com a mestria com que Faulkner progride na narrativa das suas histórias e no absoluto domínio da prosa com que poeticamente vai descrevendo as personagens e situações.Absolutamente envolvente, coloca-nos no centro dos acontecimentos.
I liked it, but it dragged a little towards the end, but then picked back up. I think I like Absalom, Absalom! and The Sound and the Fury more than I liked this one.
Apie karą Faulkneris daug nekalba, bet ta nuotaika jaučiama.
Per jų ištariamas eilutes (tik žinoma, galvoje reiktų pamėginti išsiversti į anglų kalbą ir pridėti pietietiško akcento) galima pajusti veikėjų charakterius, vos ne išgirsti juos šnekančius.
Blogoji romano pusė ta, kad čia jaučiama panieka juodaodžiams, moterims, yra kažkokio pasipūtimo, kuris šiuolaikiniam skaitytojui jau tapo atgyvena.
Bet šitai galima atleisti, juk vienaip ar kitaip kalbama apie dvidešimtąjį amžių, jo pradžią, pietinės valstijose, macho kulto kraštuose.
Jis primena filmo pabaigą, kai pradeda skambėti muzika, ekranas rodo titrus, šviesos dar išjungtos ir žmonės, kurie jau norėtų stotis ir eiti lieka įkalinti tos pasibaigusio filmo nuotaikos.
My first Faulkner and I was suitably impressed by his writing, he’s a master of metaphor and simile and the characters are fantastic.
The only criticism is that the book isn’t very plot driven, and there are subplots that are unimportant or go nowhere, even if they are entertaining.
However, Faulkner seems to be setting up characters for further exploration in other books, which I suppose is what he did.
Definitely read the forward by Robert Cantwell and afterward by Lawrance Thompson for more insight.
All in all a very enjoyable literary read that made me excited to experience more of the Sartoris clan.
A few of the characters were 5 star characters but story bored me. Just never grabbed my full interest. Faulkner did bring some of the Snopes into this book but they were minor roles in the story.
The Sartoris men seemed to be cursed with daredevil natures which caused them to tempt death and usually lose in a spectacular way.
Characters that stand out especially such as neurotic Quentin or tragic Benjy and melancholy Horace and wilful Bayard are evident examples.
There is something irksome about the inevitableness of the fates of the characters that is staid or reverential depending on the reader's willingness to accept the credos of Mississippi.
Yoknapatawpha County is masterly in its texture; it is thickly osmotic.
The death drive of Bayard Sartoris is bound to his nature but typical of the clan of Sartoris as well.
Aristocracy is sensitive to the masters and slaves.
In fact, Yoknapatawpha County reminded me of Marquez's Macondo in its attitude of delay.
just ramping up to the true masterpieces, this early work clearly indicates what faulkner was on the cusp of achieving.
the plot doesn't get entirely fleshed out, but one doesn't really mind -- especially knowing that this book serves as something of a theme, wherein the main elements of most of the rest of his oeuvre are introduced or alluded to.
the plot elements that might be considered missing from this work are picked up in subsequent novels or stories and treated in detail there, so this work is perhaps best understood as a study.
a very fine early work.
This was my first sustained reading of Faulkner, and I was very disappointed. The writing was fine and subtle, and the setting memorable, both as to place and play of generations. What was jarring was the author's characterization of black Americans, soldiers who had fought in the First World War. Here was an appalling succession of period StepnFetchit stereotypes. I could hardly believe it. Now I have read more Faulkner (in particular The Portable Faulkner, edited by Malcolm Cowley), which justify the esteem in which the author is held. But all in all, Sartoris is a disappointing embarrassment.

After a steady stream of thrillers, mysteries and rock-star biographies it was hard to muster up the patience to take on some classic "litachoor" - particularly Faulkner. I struggled early on. Could not pull up any free Sparknotes or other "summary and analysis" websites to help me along. I slogged on to the end. This story was not near as difficult as Sound and the Fury but more complicated than Light In August or Intruders in the Dust. Of the handful of Faulkner I have read this was the least interesting.
For me it is hard to believe that this and The Sound and the Fury are both written by the same man. Way too much artificial stretched descriptions, in my opinion lots of unimportant events while all I would have wanted to know more about are left out... Only at the end the book gets better, especially the time spent with McCallum family.I have read some other Yoknapatawpha stories some 30 years ago or so, dont remember much. I truly love THe Sound and THe Fury, have read it so many times and wil
For me it is hard to believe that this and The Sound and the Fury are both written by the same man.
Way too much artificial stretched descriptions, in my opinion lots of unimportant events while all I would have wanted to know more about are left out...
Only at the end the book gets better, especially the time spent with McCallum family.I have read some other Yoknapatawpha stories some 30 years ago or so, don´t remember much.
I truly love THe Sound and THe Fury, have read it so many times and will read again and again.
It took some time for me to fully delve into this novel, perhaps due to the overwhelming amount of colloquialisms and dialectic speech. By the end I was firmly drawn in to these conflicted characters who can't seem to escape their predetermined family path. The women openly wonder if the world would be more habitable without men, while the men cannot find solace in the qualities of everyday life back home. A haunting, tragic tone dominates the latter part of the book and lingers after the final words are read.
This is Faulkner's third novel, and it kicked off a string of his best (which happen to be some of the best in all American literature). You can that he is just sort of finding his stride with this one, and his characteristic traits are just starting to get solidified (including the perfectly imprecise adjectives. At two points in this book he refers to someone's "plausible face"- plausible face?), but it is still very good and a strong read. Faulkner is perfect for the summer.
While I was in the midst of this, the L.A. Times ran a good article in the weekend travel section about Faulkner's hometown of Oxford, Mississippi and how the area became the basis for the fictional Yoknapatawpha County. http://www.latimes.com/travel/la-tr-o...The writer points out what all true Faulkner fans know: "Faulkner's genius lies in both how he reflected his own world and how, on this ground, he uncovered something universal and profound."
I would never call this classic novel a nail-biter, but it's the appreciation of family lineage that I gained so much respect from page to page. Faulkner offers us his first initiation into his renowned characterization and the antiquity of Southern family tradition, subsequently where he made his mark on Southern Gothic and classic American literature. He's slowly becoming my old-time favorite.
