https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18692431-everything-everything
I was super excited when I read the description and heard the hype, but this story ended up being one of the worst things I've ever read. I’m in a very similar "bubble girl” situation as the main character, who has to stay in her house because going outside would kill her. But, (view spoiler)[ she actually doesn’t have any condition. It’s all a mistake/her life is a lie. (hide spoiler)] The cop-out ending combined with the tagline of “the greatest risk is not taking one” felt like such a dismiss
It doesn't matter if it's realistic." I'm not sure if I can adequately explain how it feels to think that your situation is actually visible for the first time, but then realize halfway through the book that others see you as more like some kind of freak show that's a good plot device for a character to overcome so then she can actually start to live.The end message of the story is that your life is worth risking for the sake of being "normal" and the disability is something to wish away.
This is a book I expected to LOVE.It's a book many of my GR friends have loved.It's a book I  was  kind of liking until the thing happens......the thing that just cheapens the entire story.I have been dying to read Everything, Everything. The reviews were all positive, it received a Kirkus star, it sounded so different... all these reasons added up to one of my most anticipated reads of the year. And it started quite beautifully-written with diverse characters, including an Afro-Asian narrator c
Madeline's condition aside - being allergic to the entire world outside her sterile home - it quickly became evident that the book wasn't as unique as I'd anticipated.
It follows in the footsteps of the great doomed love cheesefest of our time - The Fault in Our Stars - and other clones like All the Bright Places.Unlike the aforementioned two, though, I found myself enjoying this book.
It's like Madeline first sets her eyes on Olly and her whole concept of the world changes.
(hide spoiler)]It wasn't a great book before, but I was enjoying it.
Cute romance, funny dialogue, and the format/illustrations made this even more fun and unique.
I also thought this book did a fantastic job at balancing the lightheartedness with the more serious stuff.
Also, there were some things that didn't quite add up when I stopped to think about them, but I was able to suspend my disbelief and just go with it.Overall, I thought this was a fantastic debut novel!
Funny and sad and romantic all at once!
Definitely recommended, especially if you like cute, unique contemporary.
this became an instant fave! beautiful writing, extraordinary story, & rich characters. full video review to come!
This book is about a the most special different unique girl half black-half-Japanese girl in the world who has a super ultra extraordinarily rare disease which nobody can figure out which makes her allergic to everything, therefore she has to stay inside all day, who meets a boy who moves in next door, and it is exactly as boring as it sounds.
I want to fall in love along with them.
In a book in which a character is pretty much doomed from the start, I want to live each breath with them like it was their last.This book did nothing for me.
4.5/5I really enjoyed this, especially the last 1/3 of the book! It had a unique premise, a great main character, a nice romance, and a great message. I recommend to all of you looking for a good quick read, whether you are usually a fan of YA romance or not!
Generic Teen Book on Steroids. Cast of Characters: --Critically Ill Teen with a heart of gold. Yes, she's suffering but more importantly, will she find love?--Overbearing Mother who keeps unreasonable tight leash on her 18 year old daughter because she loves her baby girl--Edgy Angsty Hottie with a heart of gold AND emotional baggage. He has abs, he likes math and man-oh-man can he bat those baby blues. Swoon--Abusive Father - one-dimensional jerk that beats Edgy, Angsty Hottie's family around.
Yes, she's suffering but more importantly, will she find love?--Overbearing Mother who keeps unreasonable tight leash on her 18 year old daughter because she loves her baby girl--Edgy Angsty Hottie with a heart of gold AND emotional baggage.
(I think you already know her answer).To channel my (already) long rant, I will limit myself to:  the Boy Tastes, the Smex Scenes, the Idiocy of Teenagers and the Cop-Out Ending.
The Idiocy of Teenagers - it's totally not like you lived with this disease your entire life...right?
There are so many points in this book where Maddie relays to Oly that she (view spoiler)[ "never would have gone outside if it wasn't for him", "wanted Olly to have a girlfriend who could do the same things as him" etc.
(hide spoiler)] I felt that there was too much of a focus on the presence of Olly shaping Maddie's decisions, and at times her personal discovery was overshadowed by her love for him.
I left this book, not with the message that you should live your life to the fullest, but that Maddie was okay with sacrificing her personal health for love, and that's something I'm vehemently against.
(view spoiler)[Madeline is sick.
Her mother does everything to keep her alive and far away from the world, because the Outside would kill her.
Madeline acted like such a brat, and I hated her for it.
(view spoiler)[The twist.
Turns out Madeline never was sick, her mother needs a therapist, and her whole life was a lie...and I still don't know what to think about it.
(hide spoiler)]There's one quote that I want to talk about, because it keeps nagging me even two weeks after finishing this:“Maybe growing up means disappointing the people we love.”I call that bullshit.
You think your parents are disappointed when they look at you?
4.5 stars Pretty damned close to perfect. And this one is going to make a lot of top 10 lists this year, including mine. Review to come.
I can see how this book might be offensive to some people (if you've read it, you know exactly what I'm talking about), but the author absolutely didn't mean it to be and it is just fiction.
I, of course, was thinking of Magonia, which features a character with a similar disease… Except, in Magonia, the heroine is slowly dying but able to wander outside, whereas Maddy can’t leave her own house.
Interracial romances happen ALL THE TIME, and yet, they aren't as frequent in books and movies and I'm even going to go as far as to say songs.
I loved everything, everything about this book. *hugs book closely* review to come.
*4.5/5*WeeEooOOW. THIS WAS GREAT. You guys know I typically despise romance in YA novels, but the relationship and the characters in this book were SO CUTE and so well done that I couldn't do anything but love them. Really unique main character, and the ending was sort of open which I felt worked really well with how the story went.
It’s up to you.”I’ve had about 36 hours to think about “Everything, Everything” and now that I’m actually beginning to write this review I still don’t know how I feel about the book.
And just like that, everything changes.”Maddy:”Ever since Olly came into my life there’ve been two Maddys: the one who lives through books and doesn’t want to die, and the one who lives and suspects that death will be a small price to pay for it.”I liked the way she saw the world and thought about things.
Not cool.However.My Everything is the 12 year old little girl pictured above, and after seeing the trailer to the movie, she asked me to read this with her.I know what you're thinking:But Anne, you have 4 kids!
I was able to finish it in a day, which was a HUGE bonus because I'd promised her that I would read the damn thing before we saw the movie in the theater.
Mainly, because I don't read shit like this.
After we left the theater, she turned to me and said the four little words I've been dying to hear her say for years:The book was better.Anyway, my kid gave it 5 OMG-IT-WAS-AMAZING!
stars.I'm giving it 3 OMG-MY-DAUGHTER-VOLUNTARILY-READ-A-BOOK!
I really liked the book, but I just can't justify the actions of the mom, it killed the ending for me.
How do I write a review for this book without spoilers!
I thought I was going to have a panic attack reading what happens!!!!Madeline Whittier (Maddy) has SCID, basically meaning she is allergic to everything and has been sealed inside of her house since she was four-years-old or she will die.
Olly moves in next door.
You know that they are going to fall in love and it's so sweet, it's so sweet and so damn sad.
Maddy decides she wants to get out and see the world.
if Olly didn't come into her life....
I love this book.
Funny illustrations, one sentence chapters, hipster chapter titles, nods to classic films and books, unique spins on popular board games, boys who wear black, Tumblr book reviews, mushy romance, wild unchaperoned craziness, the internet, super cheesy descriptions of how beautiful someone is, a boy describing himself as sexy, some rare disease that love can overcome, boy and girl falling in love but would never actually in real life so you have to really suspend belief, parents who just don't understand, teenage angst, a bright colorful book cover with giant title font, an author with a cool name, first person narrative...But why...
ME MUERO. ME MUERO. ME MUERO. LLORO MUCHO. ES PERFECTO. (Relectura en verano de 2016)
This book was overall enjoyable, and the first half I absolutely adored! Amazing writing, realistic characters. I love how Olly was smart, but not wise beyond his years *cough* John Green *cough*. However, the last half of this book just went by too fast, developed instalove, was unrealistic, and predictable. Amazing idea, but the way the book was written (unrealistically) i was able to guess the outcome, which was frustrating because it could have taken such a better twist. But it was cute and interesting and I loved the doodles and extra pictures! Also POC main character!!!!!
"Maybe we can't predict everything, but we can predict some things. For example, I am certainly going to fall in love with Olly... It's almost certainly going to be a disaster."  Can we first just talk about this cover??? Amazing right?! Stunning. It fits the story so well.Everything Everything is a novel about a girl named Madeline who is suffering from SCID... or as I knew it "bubble boy syndrome". Madeline has spent the last 18 years trapped inside her house. The only people she comes in con
For example, I am certainly going to fall in love with Olly...
I've read characters before who are caring, kind, and sweet but something about how Yoon presents Maddy's traits made it something special.
You know how in other "sick kid books" such a TFIOS a lot of people's issues with Hazel and Gus is that they speak so mature for their age and it's off putting for a few.
in fact it is my least favorite genre so liking this book was kind of a big deal for me.
4.5*Video review to come!Took off a half star because I have very mixed feelings about the last bit
confession time: i actually saw the film first before i read this, which i rarely do.
:Peven though i already knew the story beforehand, the book still had plenty to offer.
i especially loved the little nuances and details of maddys notes - it made the story so much more tangible and easier to accept, because lets be honest.
this story is a little unrealistic at times (i guess thats the beauty of fiction).
its short with relaxed writing, so this is the perfect book for someone looking for a quick and unique afternoon read!↠ 4 stars
3.5 stars rounded up. Because it was a cute story dammit.My disease is as rare as it is famous. It's a form of Severe Combined Immunodeficiency, but you know it as "bubble baby disease".Madeline is allergic to the world. Just about anything can make her sick and that would be the end for her. Her world exists of her doctor mom, her nurse Carla and her books. Her books have to come to her vacuum sealed so that no contaminants can get to her. She has never been inside a used book store, Madeline h
Her world exists of her doctor mom, her nurse Carla and her books.
Olly and Madeline take small steps, they begin IM'ing each other.
Ever since Olly came into my life there've been two Maddy's: the one who lives through books and doesn't want to die, and the one who LIVES and suspects that death will be a small price to pay for it.So begins the romance with that boy that lives next door but that she can't touch.
This little book is not bad.
I wanted a little bit more but I'll over-look it because I did like the book.
UPDATE: 7/31/17I'm deciding this is actually 2 stars because as I educate myself further with mental illness', I realize this "love cures all" thing isn't the solution to everything, for everyone, and that's something this book had. Love that cured "the problem." Also, (view spoiler)[ the fact that the mental illness was never really even true yet the love conquers all is? How did that work? Her falling in love cured her fake mental illness? Makes sense. (hide spoiler)] :) ❝Love is a terrible th
UPDATE: 7/31/17I'm deciding this is actually 2 stars because as I educate myself further with mental illness', I realize this "love cures all" thing isn't the solution to everything, for everyone, and that's something this book had.
Other than that, Maddy wasn't a realistic character because of her disease and her allergy to people, the outside, and the rest of the world, but her relationship with Olly grew and I was glad they were able to work things out throughout the book until the end.
When the ending doesn't matter...I, like a lot of you, I'm sure, totally called the ending of this thing before I even opened the book - and, for once, I didn't even care.
I have read a LOT of books in my life - over 1700 - and, I must say, this is the first time I have ever found myself physically spinning a book in circles like a total jackass to read some of the text.
Most of all, I just really liked how Yoon posed some good questions - is life without risk really living?
I don’t know … I just felt like this “love of my life” thing was a bit much considering the situation and the age.
I don’t know … I just feel like we could have done without the dramatics which actually would have fixed a lot of my plot issues.
I feel like they needed to back off quite a bit actually!
(hide spoiler)]But even after all this, I felt like my major issue with this book had to do with my lack of connection to anyone.
Lol._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  Original Review  3.5 stars  Brief intermission Madeline’s question: "Who actually slaps their knee while laughing?"Aj’s answer: "Uh, fifty percent of the Filipino population, I think?!"  *slaps her knee while laughing* -end of intermission-^^Everything, everything about the first eighty percent of this book is adorable in a “this-is-so-cute-I-want-to-pinch and smooch you” way.
OF COURSE WE DO.So what happens??SHIT.The WORLD EXPLODES.OLLY AND MADDY CAN"T BE TOGETHER.EVERYBODY'S FLAILING THEIR ARMS AROUND CAUSE THEY"RE ARE CRAZY FANGIRLS/BOYS.See, you get the point.
Run Away.*If plan A fails...then.....*B.
Run Even Farther to the 'Corner of the World'And the list just keeps on going!But besides they're insane, yet brilliant plan, they have fun.
They experience the ocean, the world, the love of one another, and honestly, it's great to read it.
This book was a brilliant, great read, so please try it!(and fangirl with me about Olly, and Maddy, and more of Olly........)*smiles maniacally*I swear I'm not a creep!!
Finished in one sitting - couldn't get enough!!!
