https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4799.Cannery_Row
I love the simplicity of his characters and the humdrum feeling their lives evoke.
At its core, the Steinbeck novel want us to figure out how to embrace the cards life has dealt us.
The characters in his books are so far down the economic ladder you need a pair of binoculars to find them.
You almost want to step in and give them a Lowe’s gift card, just to make things a little easier for them.
But Steinbeck characters don’t need your damn Lowe’s gift card.
“The things we admire in men, kindness and generosity, openness, honesty, understanding and feeling are the concomitants of failure in our system.
Steinbeck, like Doc, doesn’t offer a glorified, syrupy version of the hardships of life while sermonizing on the benefits of collective insurgency; his clear-cut vision synthesizes the healing compassion that human beings are capable of and inspires us to find poetry in the most prosaic, even the most repulsive of things.There is an irresistible modesty in Steinbeck’s minimalistic yet deeply charged prose.
In this telling historical fiction, the Nobel Laureate creates archetypes of characters who made central California home during a trying time in American history.Depression era Monterey, California is a quiet community comprised of canneries, whore houses, a few general stores, and one biologist named Doc who is forever tinkering with experiments in his laboratory.
Yet, even if he is borrowing a car to go frogging or throwing a disastrous party at Doc's lab, his compass ends up on Cannery Row. I enjoyed Steinbeck's depictions of Monterey and the time period more so that Mack's adventures.
“Doc would listen to any kind of nonsense and turn it into wisdom. His mind had no horizon and his sympathy had no warp. He could talk to children, telling them very profound things so that they understood. He lived in a world of wonders, of excitement. He was concupiscent as a rabbit and gentle as hell. Everyone who knew him was indebted to him. And everyone who thought of him thought next, 'I really must do something nice for Doc.’”  Cannery Row Doc is one of those fictional characters that ne
This book is dedicated to a man by the name of Ed Ricketts who was a marine biologist with a lab, like Doc, on Cannery Row in Monterey, California.
The biologist has a profound impact on his writing and also on the writing of Joseph Campbell, who, like Steinbeck, lived in Monterey and spent as much time in Ricketts’s lab as possible.
Ed Ricketts’s lab on Cannery Row.Doc is lonely, but he isn’t alone.
Such is the world!As there are countless wonderful real reviews of this classic already, but I feel I have to add my enthusiasm about spending delicious hours rereading Cannery Row, laughing tears of amusement and sorrow, I will offer a little prayer quote, as honest as can be, the absolute antithesis to the equally powerful, yet hypocritical rhetoric of an Elmer Gantry.“Our Father who art in nature, who has given the gift of survival to the coyote, the common brown rat, the English sparrow, the house fly and the moth, must have a great and overwhelming love for no-goods and blots-on-the-town and bums, and Mack and the boys.
Our Father who art in nature.” As it is Saturday, and I am a lazy bum, this will have to do for a review of an all time favourite.Amen.
Steinbeck got me to like the kind of people that, at first judgment, I would deem ignorant, annoying, or maybe even dangerous.
And while the characters for the most part remain pretty freakin’ lovable, Steinbeck -- true to life -- hits us with dark surprises throughout.
The gopher gives up on his perfect home, and decides to move where he can find a mate.......and ends up choosing a spot in a nearby garden that is full of gopher traps.I started reading heavily a little over a year ago.
And if I could keep within me, all the time, those aforementioned dashes of pure, radiating love in my heart, I think I’d be perpetually happy.
like all the steinbeck i have read, except the dead pony, of which i remember very little except not being too keen on it, it is saturated with these wonderful marginalized characters who are desperate and hopeless and yearning.
it reminds me in my feeling-parts of suttree, which is one of my all time favorite books.
this one will never be my favorite, but its been so long since i read him, i am remembering why i always list him when rattling off favorite authors when cornered by someone who wants something "really american".
the frog story was the best thing i have read in a long time.
In an effort to return to Doc's good graces, Mack and the boys decide to throw another party but make it work this time.
این رمان از آثار پرخوانشگر «اشتاین بک» است، و همانند بیشتر کتابهای این نویسنده، در فضای کاهش تقاضا بازگو میشود، و زندگی نادارها و مشکلات آنها را بیان میکند.
«راسته کنسرو سازی» مکانی واقعی در «کالیفرنیا» است، که در چندین شعر، و داستان از جمله در همین اثر «اشتاین بک» به نام آنجا اشاره شده است.
The Word sucks up Cannery Row, digests it and spews it out, and the Row has taken the shimmer of the green worlds and the sky-reflecting seas.” while the bus driver is laying on his horn and swerving dangerously around a Subaru.
Each are in itself a chapter, a slice of the Row. I love that Sarah read this to her friends during a trip from Portland to Salinas.
I love that Ben is reminded of teenage fears that karen uses the phrase ‘well-meaning ineptitude’ and that I now have an image of Logan  flirting it up with Steinbeck.
Cannery Row evokes a place that no longer exists, covering a period roughly that of the Great Depression in Monterey, California.Steinbeck drew on his friendship with Ed Ricketts, a marine biologist , as his central character "Doc" for his novel.
Ricketts was killed.Steinbeck would return to the world of Cannery Row with the novel Sweet Thursday, published in 1954.
Ed Ricketts lived on in Steinbeck's memory, with Doc returning as the novel's central character.The prologue of Cannery Row grabs the reader and shakes him, much as a terrier shakes a rat.
Doc is nice to everybody on the row.
Steinbeck wrote one book about the Arthurian legends.
However, he wrote a few books using the Arthurian legend model and Cannery Row is one of them.
It's taken me this long to think about how I wanted to review it.
I just needed to examine my feelings, and besides, I feel like Steinbeck's work deserves reflection, even his lesser work.
Is this a lesser Steinbeck work?
Ah, but they are incredible sketches!Cannery Row and Tortilla Flats fall into that Arthurian legend model as stated earlier.
I don't think so, but that's me.
This is highly enjoyable and I think that's what Steinbeck was going for.
Funny and wonderfully written. Steinbeck captures the spiritedness of his characters so well. And he describes the landscape beautifully. I'm glad I finally got around to reading this one!
"It has always seemed strange to me,” said Doc. “The things we admire in men — kindness and generosity, openness, honesty, understanding, and feeling — are the concomitants of failure in our system. And those traits we detest — sharpness, greed, acquisitiveness, meanness, egotism, and self-interest — are the traits of success. And while men admire the quality of the first, they love the produce of the second." Cannery Row is a real place. What John Steinbeck describes as "a poem, a stink, a gra
This isn't Steinbeck of the The Grapes of Wrath, which is possibly his greatest book - with all its epic symbolism and gritty realism of extreme poverty and consuming hunger and misery; Cannery Row is a much more relaxed novel in the tradition of another of his early works, Tortilla Flat, which also featured a cast of whimsical protagonist enjoying what life brought to them, despite being poor as a tribe of mice.
I ended up reading this because I read Monterey Bay from the Tournament of Books longlist, where the author took Steinbeck's research, characters, place and time and wrote her own novel.
One of the characters is based on Ed Ricketts, who Steinbeck writes about taking a journey with in The Log from the Sea of Cortez, and dedicates this book to.
"Cannery Row in Monterey in California is a poem, a stink, a grating noise, a quality of light, a habit, a nostalgia, a dream.And the characters!
And while men admire the quality of the first they love the produce of the second."
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #50: Read a book recommended by somebody else doing the Popsugar Reading ChallengeThis audiobook was great!I really enjoyed this little book about a town full of misfits.
Amongst normal things like "she bought an apple peeler" and "he went to the bar", something along the lines of "a man caught a two-headed fish, then sold it to the museum for eight dollars" would be thrown in, which is so random but I loved it.
I'm not sure if this review makes sense anymore, but I'm glad I finally read this book, and I highly recommend the audiobook!
20 pages in i immediately noticed the sherwood anderson influence and shot off an email to my friend xxx, urging him to read it on the flight to nyc.
If it's your pen, I am sorry.my favorite thing about crack is that it tastes like cheap grape soda.
I got seriously into Steinbeck in my Wonder Years thru early 20s.
Uncle Sherwood is THEE branch above Steinbeck, Saroyan, Fante, Hemingway, Fitzgerald--they ALL cite him as being The Man.Well, wish you were here smoking crack with me.
I'm taking some to NYC, but I'll save you hit.Love,xxx"i'm not gonna smoke crack.
This: Doc was collecting marine animals in the Great Tide Pool on the tip of the Peninsula. It is a fabulous place: when the tide is in, a wave-churned basin, creamy with foam, whipped by the combers that roll in from the whistling buoy on the reef. But when the tide goes out the little water world becomes quiet and lovely. The sea is very clear and the bottom becomes fantastic with hurrying, fighting, feeding, breeding animals. And as if Manifest Destiny has pushed the dreamers of America West,
And as if Manifest Destiny has pushed the dreamers of America West, West as far as they can go, to the furthest seabord and then withdrawn like a tide, leaving them washed up in the stink, the tone, the dream that is Cannery Row, so we peer into this fabulous place and see the teeming life scurrying there.
The men and women of Cannery Row feel that loss too, that lack of love that will create new life.
E mentre gli uomini ammirano le prime di queste qualità, amano il risultato delle seconde”.La prima cosa è il luogo: Cannery Row, Monterey, California, l'abitato quartiere dove hanno sede gli stabilimenti per la produzione di sardine in scatola, la bottega di alimentari e liquori, il bar di dubbia fama, la casa di piacere frequentata da operai, marinai e soldati, uno strano Istituto di Biologia, il magazzino occupato dagli hobos, i vagabondi che hanno così poco da chiedere all'esistere.
A colpire in questo testo è l'applicazione di due princìpi di leggerezza, l'umorismo e la fantasia, che con meraviglia e atmosfera creano in chi legge una aggraziata sospensione del senso morale.“La prima mattina è tempo di magia nel Vicolo Cannery.
It is a wondrous and magnificent thing that a necessarily great writer (because not all writers do this) can sit alone in his room emitting explosions of love for his characters and, being free and technically astute, he can channel this ineffable love into the energy of his words so that a reader, half a century after his death, can feel it viscerally as if she were in the room with him at the time of the explosion.
This is the first Steinbeck that I've attempted to read as an adult.
Now we've found each other as adults and can really appreciate each other's complexities and I can tell that I'll likely be making sweet love to Johnny S.
for years to come.Cannery Row is a really brief read that features some of the most concise yet descriptive writing I've ever come across.
Set in a small stretch of Monterey, California, the book tells the story of the town's inhabitants and their attempts to throw a party to show their appreciation for Doc, a marine collector who is generous almost to a fault.
Instead, it's a deceptively simple story (in terms of language) that evokes a range of emotions, humor and sadness all mixed up together, but it's never depressing.At first I was reminded of Winesburg, Ohio in that its focus is on one community and the stories are more like vignettes (though they do end up connecting in many ways); but it's quite different from the Anderson.
Anderson's characters can't, or won't, communicate with each other; the denizens of Cannery Row don't have that problem.
They certainly don't always communicate in words -- they read each others' faces, vocal tones and mannerisms; they remember past history, but they know each other -- and ultimately themselves -- very well.
This is something that would typically irritate me and impact my rating of the book but Steinbeck did well with it in Cannery Row. The loose plot focuses on the group of characters, who are all, in one way or another, trying to make something of themselves and deal with their own thoughts, such as failure, pain, and loneliness, among others.
People will forget’ — and things like that when you’re not involved, but when you are there is no passage of time, people do not forget and you are in the middle of something that does not change.”I’ve only read one other Steinbeck book, Of Mice and Men, which was required in school.
This book finds me in my making. It gives a color to it which isn't bright or striking, but pale, and subtle, and earthly. It has something of the universe in it. The concomitant pattern is so satisfactory to look at that it swells my heart and waters my eyes.Steinbeck is The Man.
In Cannery Row he captures a moment in time in the most vivid colors and imprints it on the only unperishable and eternal medium: paper.
A soul of some sort.
And it's the people that live there that give shape to this soul and define its quality.
To me Cannery Row, California was like the reflection of a part of me.
Reading about those simple people living their simple lives in melancholy and joy acted like a sort of introspection.
When, through all this distance in space, time and conditions, you have managed to speak to the heart of even one single person, you know you have achieved something great.
This sketch book wrapped up as a novel was the perfect complement to John Steinbeck's multigenerational family epic and reminded me of a scrappy independent movie that takes place on a few blocks of a town off the beaten path.
By the time I finished the book, I wanted to wrap my belongings into a bindle and hitch a ride to Monterery.Most of the sketches here involve "Doc", a marine biologist and bachelor who resides in Western Biological.
Clever enough to resist working for a living and cursed enough to foul up almost anything they touch, Mack and the boys get it in their heads to do something nice for Doc. They decide to throw him a party.
Things just flow very naturally from the start, you calculate everything correctly, everything clicks and works, and before you know it, it's over -- and if it is a good game, you look back at it and think, "well, that was nice!" I get much of the same feelings reading Steinbeck, and especially in this work.
The complex interrelations between people are made simple and beautiful.
People existing side by side and doing what they can with the cards they're dealt.
People who try to be kind, but screw up.
Because that's what people do sometimes.
It's simple to read, but it's deceptively simple.
<<Συμβαίνει κάτι πολύ περίεργο>>,συνέχισε ο δοκτορας. <<οι αρετές που θαυμάζουμε, η καλοσύνη, η γενναιοδωρία, η ανοιχτή καρδιά, η τιμιότητα, η κατανόηση, τα καλά αισθήματα, όλα αυτά συντείνουν στο να αποτύχει ένας άνθρωπος μέσα στην κοινωνία. Και το αντίθετο, αυτά που σιχαινομαστε, η πονηριά, η απληστία η γλισχροτητα, ο εγωισμός και η συμφεροντολογια οδηγούν ολοισια στην επιτυχία. Κι ενώ από τη μια θαυμάζουμε τις αρετές, από την άλλη αγαπάμε τα κέρδη που μας δίνουν οι κακίες &g
<<Συμβαίνει κάτι πολύ περίεργο>>,συνέχισε ο δοκτορας. <<οι αρετές που θαυμάζουμε, η καλοσύνη, η γενναιοδωρία, η ανοιχτή καρδιά, η τιμιότητα, η κατανόηση, τα καλά αισθήματα, όλα αυτά συντείνουν στο να αποτύχει ένας άνθρωπος μέσα στην κοινωνία. Και το αντίθετο, αυτά που σιχαινομαστε, η πονηριά, η απληστία η γλισχροτητα, ο εγωισμός και η συμφεροντολογια οδηγούν ολοισια στην επιτυχία. Κι ενώ από τη μια θαυμάζουμε τις αρετές, από την άλλη αγαπάμε τα κέρδη που μας δίνουν οι κακίες >>.Αλλη μια φορά ο Σταινμπεκ με αγγίζει με το βιβλίο του.
Mükemmel bir Steinbeck eseri daha. Yumuşacık bir anlatım, her zaman bir yerlerde gördüğünüz müthiş karakterler, hayal kırıklıkları, umutlar, yaşama arzuları... Sardalye Sokağı'ndakileri anlatmak için orada yaşanmış olması gerek, tıpkı Yaşar Kemal'in Çukurova'sını anlatmasında olduğu gibi. Romanda bence felsefi yük oldukça fazla ama siz yine de çok bir anlam yüklemeden öylesine okuyun. Keyif alacaksınız, roman kahramanlarıyla arkadaş olacaksınız, bir "Sardalye Sokağı"m benim de olsaydı diyeceksiniz.
A tale or tales of nothingness, that imparts an unintentional smile into your lips, and transports us into a sweet, soporific reflective mood. The book has made an indelible impression in my mind as he, Steinbeck, had built a mansion of beauty and intelligence out of nothing, like a magician. As Steinbeck says, "the stories crawl in themselves as you open the book".
Lighthearted and then gritty, warm and then dark, it's a portrait of a certain kind of post wild-west life that feels as if you could step through the pages into a different era - one that was as uncertain about its future as the one we're in now.So many great characters inhabited this book.
My favorite was probably Mack, the de facto leader of the boys of the Palace Flophouse - a bunch of layabouts who may actually be onto something when it comes to the secret of a happy life.
