https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/827360.Keeper_of_the_Light
I absolutely loved this book. I'm so glad I bought the trilogy.I'm now starting book two.
What a horrible book.
A very weird love triangle, oops How do you say that but then with 5 people?
I have read some of this author's books and I did enjoy some but this I had to stop reading.The begin is quite interesting but then when you get to know the other characters (and they are all very unlikable!) it gets weird.
Real weird and stupid.Apparently everybody and their dogs loves this one red head woman.
I read way too much so I think can judge this book and I give it 2 stars cause am nice like that.
As I was reading this book my heart ached so bad.The story plot is wonderfully paced and the characters are well developed, the main ones are: Annie (stained glass artist) and Alec O’Neill (veterinary doctor), Dr. Olivia Simon (surgeon) and Paul Macelli (journalist).
He tells his wife Dr. Olivia Simon about his love for Annie, but stresses that it’s one-sided on his part and a platonic relationship.
Paul starts to withdraw from his wife.In the beginning of the book, a husband goes to a shelter for abused women where Annie volunteers and points a gun at his wife.
This book is one of my favorites from Diane Chamberlain. An awesome writer! Highly recommend all her books.
Another Diane Chamberlain novel I totally enjoyed even though it was just a little outdated (originally published in 1992). It did not, however, detract from the story as the 500 pages just flew by. Certainly look forward to reading more of DC's books!
This is the first book in a trilogy (other novels are Kiss River and Her Mother's Shadow). Diane's books are always full of complex interesting characters, good plots, family relationships and drama, suspense and many secrets to be revealed in the end.
This was not my favorite of her books but it was still a good book. A friend who recently read this said it was too long and I couldn't agree more. Overall though Diane Chamberlain writes damn good stories that keep you engaged and wanting more at every turn of the page.
Time Taken To Read - 1 dayBlurb From AmazonAs your husband grieves his mistress, You find yourself falling for the family she left behind.
Stepping into Annie s shoes, Olivia finds another life.
Because Annie s life was built on secrets...ones that will destroy everyone she left behind.My ReviewFrom reading the blurb on the back I knew I had to get this book.
You have to make some risky and quick decisions and then you realize this is the lady who has come between you and your husband, her life is in your hands.
Really, the description of this book is the bare minimum of what it is really about.
Slowly throughout the novel, connections between people, events, and places are being made.
The only way I can describe the ending of this book is "BOOM".
It's absolutely amazing.I absolutely love the description and details of characters in Diane Chamberlain's novels.
Everyone just fits perfectly together by the end of this book.
It's absolutely amazing how well written Diane Chamberlain's novels are.
She doesn't forget a single detail.I did absolutely love it though, like I do all Diane Chamberlain novels.
It was as if the author had to create extreme character flaws in order to make the story turn out the way it did.
As I'm finding, I do not like the way that Diane Chamberlain concludes her books!
Frankly I didn't think any of the characters in this novel were likable or worthy of respect so was happy to turn the last page with a sense of relief that I was done hearing about their antics and behavior.I will likely continue to read more of this author's books hoping that eventually there will be an ending that I think fits before giving up.
A gripping tale of obsession and betrayal. Loved it!
too much sex, and it seemed like a soap opera
Еще одна отличная история от пера Дианы Чемберлен.
До чего не люблю в последнее время любовные треугольники и тому подобные любовные фигуры, но тут просто стою и хлопаю Чемберлен стоя.
Автор такую фигурину закрутила, что только успевай переводить дыхание и переворачивать страницы книги.
Главная героиня книги Оливия - красивая женщина, успешный врач, любящая жена.
Муж Оливии - журналист Пол, помешался на другой женщине, замужней художнице.
Но Оливия чувствует что-то не ладное.
Но однажды соперница оказывается на операционном столе в больнице, где работает Оливия, со смертельным ранением в сердце...в этот момент перевернет жизни обеих семей...Очень понравилось.
Also broken are Olivia Simon, the emergency room physician who tried to save her, and the good doctor's husband, Paul, who idolized the victim.
To recapture Paul's love, Olivia begins to emulate Annie in every way, from learning the craft of stained glass to being a good Samaritan.
-Book DescriptionAfter the dramatic opening of Annie O'Neill's death in the Kill River Emergency room under the care of Dr. Olivia Simon, the book became very slow.
I was very angry at Paul, Olivia's husband, and his obsession over Annie.
I was drawn into the story of Olivia, Alec, and Annie.
This review was originally posted on [Between My Lines]I'm trying a new book review format. I just want to give you a short message on how Keeper of the Light by Diane Chamberlain made me feel. And what better way than sending a postcard.Quick Thoughts on Keeper of the Light by Diane Chamberlain Not many authors could have handled the complicated relationships without turning it to a farce. But in Diane Chamberlain's capable hands, it becomes an emotional and heartfelt story.  But be warned the
I just want to give you a short message on how Keeper of the Light by Diane Chamberlain made me feel.
And what better way than sending a postcard.Quick Thoughts on Keeper of the Light by Diane Chamberlain
Not many authors could have handled the complicated relationships without turning it to a farce.
Postcard to the Town of Kiss River where Keeper of the Light is set:
Who should read Keeper of the Light by Diane Chamberlain?
Fans of authors such as Jodi Picoult and Kristin Hannah should also enjoy, as would fans of other books by Diane Chamberlain.
Annie can do no wrong as far as anyone is concerned.However, no one knows but elderly, former lighthouse keeper, Mary Poor, what betrayals Annie has wrought through her life.
Mary also knows how many people would be hurt if those betrayals were brought to light but they must be in order for those who loved Annie the most to move on.An interesting story that went on and on and on, as soap operas do, until you can't stand it any longer and want to turn them off.
But, you can't because you have to know how it all ends.
I absolutely hated this book at first.
Surprisingly, it did pick up in the last half of the book, with revelations that made the characters make more sense.
Flashbacks may have their place, but in this book, they felt like a cheat.
There's no way the characters would not have remembered the events revealed in the flashbacks in the "now" of the story--they were only hidden to keep the reader guessing...
or in my case, to make the reader loathe the characters.
Once I learned the whole story, I hated the characters too much for any revelations to help.
Chamberlain has an amazing gift in her ability to script believable characters, all whom have flaws, all of whom are sympathetic.
Olivia is married to Paul, who still carries a torch for Annie, who is married to Alec.
Annie dies and Paul leaves Olivia, who then begins a friendship with Alec.
It's somewhat convoluted, but Chamberlain manages to keep it all in check, and honestly I wasn't sure what was going to happen in the end, but I was pleased with how it turned out.
Chamberlain is becoming one of my favorite authors of contemporary fiction.
Amazing!!! I do not believe Diane Chamberlain could write a bad book – everything she writes is extraordinary! I loved the book and looking forward to reading the other two in the Kiss River series, as just purchased the next two Nook books. My favorite characters were Olivia and Alec!!. Wow, did Annie have everyone fooled along with Mary, the old lady! Loved the setting the lighthouse, and the twists and turns which were page turners! Highly creative writer and each of her books are different a
Amazing!!! I do not believe Diane Chamberlain could write a bad book – everything she writes is extraordinary! I loved the book and looking forward to reading the other two in the Kiss River series, as just purchased the next two Nook books. My favorite characters were Olivia and Alec!!. Wow, did Annie have everyone fooled along with Mary, the old lady! Loved the setting¸ the lighthouse, and the twists and turns which were page turners! Highly creative writer and each of her books are different and reads which you cannot put down!
This book was a very easy read. I really enjoyed the story and how it unfolded. I thought the characters were developed well. And the story had a really good pace. It was a page turn as I wanted to know more about the characters and the story that was unfolding. It is the first book of 3 books. I have the next two ready to read. I am sure I will enjoy them just as much as the first book and am sure I will enjoy other books by this author.
This is obviously one of her earlier books. It's good but not as good as her more recent books. This is part of a trilogy and ive read the last one first! May have to revisit it now I know Lacey and Annie's pastsThis is based on the lies that everyone tells. They all live happily ever after but who ends up with who???? Annie certainly cast her spell on all the men around her but with devastating consequences
Overall, a good read. The flashbacks were sometimes awkward but the storyline delivered and the characters were developed enough that I cared about what happened to them. I have heard good things about Chamerlain and since this is an early effort, I will definitely read more, even in this series. Solid.
Wow, what a tangled web the author weaves in this novel, excellent. I now can't wait to read 'Kiss River'which seems to follow on in the same area.
My review for this book may seem like a contradiction.
With that said, I wound up completely unable to stomach Paul and couldn't stand to hear anything else about "Saint Ann." However, I'm sure that was done intentionally by Chamberlain.
But how can so many lies be told without no one knowing ?
I do know that sometimes when we love someone, we have blinders on and miss signs, but it was far fetched that no one else knew any of the deceit, except for one other.
I will be reading the rest of the trilogy because Chamberlain drew me in.
Unbelievably good! A must read! Perfect for the summer
Chociaż inne powieści Chamberlain bardziej mnie urzekły, tę również czytało mi się doskonale i chętnie poznam dalsze losy bohaterów. Świetne zakończenie!
I first read this in 1993 and it's one of those books that haunts you until you reread it., and reread it again. It still touches my heart each time I delve back in.
Really enjoyed this book, but I’m a total fan of this author! Looks like part of the story continues in another book, so I’ll be looking it up.
An enjoyable story with interesting characters and a good twist at the end.😀
Olivia breaks the news to Annie's husband, Alec, his daughter, Lacey, and his son, Clay.
Olivia's estranged husband, Paul, is obsessed with Annie O'Neill.
Unbeknownst to Olivia, Paul actually met Annie when he was in college, and they were madly in love.
Alec is part of a committee to save the Kiss River Lighthouse, which Paul decides to join.
I was sooooo sick of hearing about Annie O'Neill by the end of the book.
In fact, it was ridiculous how she would say 'I'm in love with Alec' while at the same time she was talking about getting back together with Paul.
