https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18806240-bone-gap
You can also find this review here! “People look, they don't see.” Just thinking about this incredible book I finished a few days ago brings back all the emotions I felt while reading. Bone Gap is honestly a masterpiece and I don’t say that lightly. It is however, also a very difficult book to review.What kind of book is Bone Gap? The answer is: I don’t know. It's not really magical realism or fantasy, not contemporary, not a thriller or mystery. I have no idea how I would categorize it. It is b
It is book that is totally different from anything I’ve read; it bends genre conventions and throws tropes and clichés out the window.The novel reads a lot like a fairy tale and yet I didn’t feel any of the detachment I usually do with these kinds of stories.
Without a doubt, Bone Gap is a character and theme driven story.The story follows two brothers, Sean and Finn O’Sullivan, who live together with a beautiful girl, Roza, in a strange little town called Bone Gap until, one day, Roza mysteriously disappears and the entire town believes it was with her consent.
THIS BOOK IS TOO BEAUTIFUL AND I LOVE FINN AN EXTRAORDINARY AMOUNT.
I HAVE FORGOTTEN HOW TO WORD.Okay, okay, let me try to explain why I loved it so much.
Like corn and interesting brain conditions and honey and bees and possible magic and summer.
And I LOVE those kind of books.
And I loved how it was kind of a theme through the book.
Only positives.• ACTUALLY ONE NEGATIVE: I CAN'T BREATHE bECAUSE IT'S SO SO GOOD.• Basically if you like your contemporaries with a dash of summer and corn and a whisper of delusions/magic with complex and relatable characters, then go read it.
You can slip into the gap and never find your way out.” Genuinely can’t believe I read this in 1 day!
Bone Gap is certainly different, odd even.
Finn and his brother Sean live alone since their mother left them not long after the death of their father.
Sean doesn’t believe Finn, thinks Roza chose to leave them, as everyone does.
Overall I enjoyed the town of Bone Gap. Watching Finn unravel the mystery of Roza’s disappearance, and exploring the dusty and secretive place in which they live, a small but unforgettable town in Illinois.
Somehow I forgot that this is a magical realism book before I started it.I remembered halfway through, but before that, I couldn’t for the life of me understand why this contemporary story had so many weird and unrealistic elements.I kept trying to find realism everywhere I looked, but of course that wasn’t the way to go.
So when I finally remembered that such elements were to be expected, I stopped trying so hard and began to enjoy the story as it is.Talking corn?
Surprisingly enough, it is actually self-aware of its strangeness, meaning that the characters usually discuss it.And eventually go along with it, as did I.This isn’t the most eventful story you’ll read all year.
They both are.+++A lot of the narrative is from Finn’s viewpoint but the story goes back and forth between now and then, following Roza’s viewpoint as well as other inhabitants of Bone Gap including Petey, a girl who works with bees and who develops a beautiful if fraught relationship with Finn.The thrust of the story depicts how Roza got to Bone Gap, how she stayed on then disappeared without a trace, how her life impacts the lives of those she left behind.
No one believes he is not in love with her because she is so beautiful and surely they must have romantic feelings for each other.He is in love with Petey.
"But wasn’t that love? Seeing what no one else could?" I haven’t read a lot of magical-realism books. I don’t even have a bookshelf for that but this absolutely enchanting read made me want to read more in the future. Bone Gap surely lived up to the name of its genre because it’s completely magical and perfectly real at the same time that it didn’t cease to fascinate me from beginning to end. * Describe a book you love in recipe format since the alternative- using only adverbs- was impossible
I haven’t read a lot of magical-realism books.
Bone Gap surely lived up to the name of its genre because it’s completely magical and perfectly real at the same time that it didn’t cease to fascinate me from beginning to end.
* Describe a book you love in recipe format since the alternative- using only adverbs- was impossible.
8. Include an ingredient that the reader won’t expect, something she will taste for the very first time.
Thank you to my incredible friend Masooma who wrote this beautiful and impressive review that made me read the book.
Roza has wormed into the life of Sean and Finn with a warmth they never realized was missing.
The people of Bone Gap laugh at him but Finn is adamant to unveil the truth of Roza's kidnapping and bring her home against all odds.The characters are vividly drawn and each one has potential to snake into your heart with all their complexities and beliefs.
It unveils the brothers' lives and ambitions, Finn's magical love story brewing with the ugly bee-keeper of Bone Gap, Petey, Roza's plight, peeks into the Roza's past and glimpses of her life with the O' Sullivan brothers.
The dreamy quality of the writing in Bone Gap is out-of-this-world. That had been weeks ago. Time moved so slowly here, or was it quickly? She had become unmoored from the present, loose and untethered, her mind rolling forward into the future, anticipating, and then dropping again into this torturous, unbearable present.Here, there, everywhere. See? See what I mean? How is that anything but beautiful??And I found myself almost holding my breath for moments with Roza and Sean. Oh how hard I ship
The dreamy quality of the writing in Bone Gap is out-of-this-world.
That had been weeks ago.
Time moved so slowly here, or was it quickly?
She had become unmoored from the present, loose and untethered, her mind rolling forward into the future, anticipating, and then dropping again into this torturous, unbearable present.Here, there, everywhere.
See what I mean?
How is that anything but beautiful??And I found myself almost holding my breath for moments with Roza and Sean.
Oh how hard I ship them...
Her face burst into a grin, and it was like watching the sun rise.
I am willing to admit that my main reason for not liking this may lie in the fact that this takes elements of mainly the Boreas and Orithyia myth, but implies that it is Hades and Persephone by mixing some dashes of that myth in as well.
But this is not the Hades and Persephone I know and love, and instead paints the 'Hades' character as the villain, which again, falls more in line with Boreas than Hades.
Additionally, magical realism stories are so varied that what appeals to one fan of the genre may rub another the wrong way and I think that was the case of this with me.
Laini Taylor personally recommended this one to me, so I'll definetly read it!
The story is so disjointed that it feels like a thin veneer for its message.
I wonder if the author thought magical realism was a good vehicle to tell a story about violence toward women; I know if Bone Gap had been anything like Living Dead Girl, I probably wouldn't have been able to finish it.
But Living Dead Girl is so stomach-turning because it's unavoidably true, and the magical realism in Bone Gap only distances me from Roza's story.
What purpose does magical realism serve when it's not serving story?
That is true." I didn't find that in Bone Gap. And I wanted to.
This book confirms what I've been suspecting for a long time now - magical realism is not for me.What starts as a fairly straightforward missing person mystery lapses into night time horsey rides, enchanted kingdoms, and scary scarecrows.
And, if you can't think of an ending for your book?
(NO - that's not a spoiler, that doesn't happen in this book, though it might as well have .
Those who loved this book REALLY loved it, so if you enjoy magical worlds were nothing has to make sense, have at it.
And I loved every bit of it.Bone Gap is a story about a girl named Roza that got kidnapped and a boy named Finn that saw it happen, but couldn't do anything against it.
Roza was known as a mystery and when Finn couldn't describe the kidnapper's appearance everybody assumed he was lying.His and Petey's, a girl in Bone Gap whose family are beekeepers, growing attraction to each other was so beautiful, especially when everybody else in the town knew Petey as the ''ugly one''.
I couldn't have asked for more.The writing was absolutely beautiful and this definitely won't be the last book by Laura Ruby I am going to read.
Riding on Night Mares and talking to corn fields. All is possible in the city of Bone Gap.4.25/5 stars.
Read this review @ my blog Wonderless Reviews I received a copy of this book from Allen and Unwin in exchange for an honest review. If there’s a book that’s impossible to review then guaranteed I’ll love it and have to review it! I’m having A LOT of the same issues with trying to review this book as I did with Strange the Dreamer, but hopefully I can be somewhat coherent.I fell in love with Magical Realism last year because I find the concept so fascinating. I know it’s not for everyone because
I’m having A LOT of the same issues with trying to review this book as I did with Strange the Dreamer, but hopefully I can be somewhat coherent.I fell in love with Magical Realism last year because I find the concept so fascinating.
I just think the idea of magical things happening for the hell of it is so good.I’ve been wanting to read Bone Gap for over a year and I kept hearing wonderful things so I had really high expectations going in.
It is quite slow paced, but the build up and journey was so wonderful it was definitely worth it.Bone Gap is a small town, that truly feels like a small town.
I don’t know what to say without giving things away, but I definitely recommend it to anyone looking for something a little bit different in Young Adult.–Sarah Nicolasfrom The Best Books We Read In March 2017: http://bookriot.com/2017/04/04/riot-r...____________________Whenever someone recommends English language magical realism to me I always heave a sigh and prepare myself for an overwritten, self-aggrandizing work with hints of magic and a whole lot of disappointment.
Set amongst the corn in Bone Gap, a small town somewhere in middle America, it is the story of a missing girl, a boy trying to find his place, and all of those spaces in life where a person can go missing.
But not for anyone in this book.Roza is so beautiful that nearly every guy she meets wants a piece of her.
Until she meets brothers Sean and Finn, that is.Petey is not beautiful, or even pretty ...
Finn thinks she's beautiful, though.I really liked the way the author handled beauty in this book, which is why I'm basing my review around that theme.
As for Petey, it's not often you get a YA character who's less than pretty anywhere outside her own head, and that's refreshing to me.Also, Roza (view spoiler)[gives herself a facial scar to get out of captivity.
To hear many more of my thoughts about this book, check out this podcast with my best friend!In a word: stunning.
The spread of star ratings you'll find for this book absolutely points to how not-for-everyone this book is.
It's hard for me to accept, though, because I feel like I found an absolute treasure.
There is the reality of seeing people or missing them, and loving those we see, and thinking we love those we aren't seeing.
I'll be thinking about this for a long time to come and I can't wait to talk about this book and all of its meaning with people.
That is a testament to the talent and prowess of Laura's writing ability!Okay, so I'm a little sleepy, but I plan to wake up tomorrow and write more about this wonderful book, but just know that it was weird, and it was awesome, and I loved it, and I'm tired because I'll rather be sleep deprived and finish this book, than to put it down and wait to read it tomorrow, and this is one freaking long run-on sentence, but don't judge me, and I'm rambling, and I'm still tired, but I'm happy because that ending was pretty great too.
★★★★★★★★★★[10/10]Bone Gap is a lot of things that other books aren't.
Cute boy Moonface slips into surrealistic otherworlds through gaps in the corn fields.
It is one of those rare eccentric stories of a boy fighting to bring back his brother's love (from the inexplicably unreal world).
But, you won't...Because this book teaches you exactly that very thing - to ask the right questions.
Better yet, sometimes to not ask any questions at all -- some books are so magical that they don't need to be explainable or rational to enthrall us.
This books definitely falls under that category.
‘Because we don’t have your typical gaps around here. Not gaps made of rocks or mountains. We have gaps in the world. In the space of things. So many places to lose yourself, if you believe that they’re there. You can slip into the gap and never find your way out. Or maybe you don’t want to find your way out.’ Finn O’Sullivan was the only witness to the kidnapping of Roza, his brother Sean’s girlfriend. But when he wrestles with his memories trying to recall the face of the man that took her, h
Or maybe you don’t want to find your way out.’
No one in the town believes his story, especially since the only way he can describe the man who took her is that he “moves like a cornstalk in the wind.“Bone Gap, at first glance, appears to be your typical small-town in America where everyone knows everyone’s business no matter how private you strive to keep it.
Trying to nail this story down to a single genre is a troublesome endeavor, but just know that it’s part mythology, part romance, with large parts of magical realism that is so relentless it often veers into straight fantasy.
I decided to give this novel a try based on its accolades and honours, and while I quite enjoyed it (even if I found it a little on the nose with the whole beauty / seeing people / faces thing), the way Poland and Polish culture are used left me irritated and confused.
I mean, her grandmother is 85% likely to watch The Bold and the Beautiful).Life in Poland: Polish students usually start university at 19 unless they went to school early.
I don't have the words to explain how I feel about Bone Gap. It's not like falling in love. It's like learning what love is. It features one of the most nuanced depictions of humanity I've read in years and I will fight anyone who disagrees.
Finn and Sean O'Sullivan took in Roza, a Polish student who seems to have fled something violent.
Half the fun of the book is looking for the parallels to the other story when you realize what this one really is.
(Although I still don't get the goat).It's also a wonderful story about expectation, objectification and labels and how those definitions can be prisons of their own.
It has a storyline of romance as our society can sometimes define it and a parallel romance that is much more real and deeply beautiful.Just wonderful; one of the better books I've read this year.
This was splendid.Bone Gap is a beautiful, magical story that has a bit of everything: mystery, romance, life lessons, complex characters, shocking twists, all in a unique and unassuming package.
It's a bit dark and could be a tad frightening at times, but it also manages to ride along in a somewhat whimsical way.
The author presents her characters in such a smart and original way that you can't help being wowed by them.
((Also if you are sensitive to situations in which men are making women feel uncomfortable, i.e. kidnapping or themes of assault, I would approach cautiously.
There are no explicit rape scenes, but one of the characters is consistently harassed by men)).
Loved this one. Totally immersive, with beautiful language and a fascinating twist.
People look, they don't see.Bone Gap is a story about perception and reality, and how people rarely have the two things aligned when it comes to those around them.Roza is a beautiful woman who appears suddenly in the town of Bone Gap and is taken in by two brothers, Sean and Finn.
Roza meanwhile has a story of her own that begins long before her kidnapping, when her beautiful face became a burden that she could never take off.
I haven't finished reading all the shortlisted books yet, but two of the others on the list, Cuckoo Song and Archivist Wasp I read last year and put on my favourites-2015 shelf.
4.5How do you review an unreviewable book?
The entire book reads as if it is a dream.
There is Roza, so beautiful that she has been kidnapped because she is “the most beautiful woman in the world.” The novel explores the ways that Roza has suffered for her beauty both in her native Poland and in her adopted town of Bone Gap. Then there is Petey, so ugly that her unattractiveness is a constant refrain in the small town of Bone Gap. It doesn’t matter that Petey is a competent beekeeper and keeper of her own self worth.
And once she starts introducing characters, even though they're all simple small-town farm people, they grab your attention and pull you into the story--like they're worthy of living in the wonderland of corn that binds them together.After being fully immersed in this strange world with such strange people in it, the story starts to come together, and the way it does is such a work of art like Forrest Gump or I'll Give You the Sun. It doesn't have you turning pages for cheap thrills, but for the beauty of it.
These quirky interesting characters aren't just that way to grab your attention, their quirks mold the whole story into the work of art it is.Is Bone Gap an easy read?
its magic-realism but also normal life so you unsure what's what and how the characters got there and if the imagery is supposed to be some sort of symbolism (still havent figured it out) so while the plot and setting are confusing, the characters are darling soft children that need to be protectedall of the, except the rude boys but finn and roza and pettey and sean, i would dedicate my life to baking them cookies and tucking them in at nightthe ending was really satisfying.
like the initial 100 pages were just a mess for me but the ending was really what made the book shinei still want to know what really happened to roza (view spoiler)[ and how finn was able to find her.
