https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/630604.L_Abb_C
Who left the load under the window while Charles and Eponine were having unspecified sex?a) The priest.b) The butcher.c) Both of the above.d) None of the above.Sorry, but, well, I prefer my allegories to be not quite so shitty.Everybody except an unnamed 'Editor' dies, but not in any cool, shocking or even interesting manner.
Maybe it loses something in translation.Back to the load under the window: 'How very odd,' I said, 'in the dark, butchers look like priests.' Can't say I didn't give you a clue for the test question.There was one passage which made some sense on a theme of Writing:My absurdity imagined, as I lay somnolent, a clear way to define the problem with which literature is confronted.
For those who fully commit themselves to the depths of L'abbe C,a vexing paradox arises: the necessity of verbalizing a profoundexperience and the impossibility of ever giving such profunditya justifiable expression.
From Charles' attempt to finish his story to the editor's struggle to simply write a preface and epilogue, the narratives tremble with how Charles' and Robert's seemingly conflicting realities merge into an unstable whole.
The limitation of thought within words is not so far removed from Robert's attempt to confine his flesh within monastic solitude.
Bataille reaches the ineffable only when spiritual and erotic experience are realized equally and simultaneously.
Nope. Didn't do it for me. Few people have read this novel and it is clear why. It's clinical, unreadable and simply dull. I just didn't care about the wooden characters or supposedly highbrow allegorical meaning to the text. So much of it sounds profound but on close inspection is rendered utterly meaningless. It's just not enjoyable or engaging, at all.
Bataille’s intensity of effect is extraordinary and yet I found myself wishing for lighter ironies than those he wanted to give, for humour and the playfulness of Queneau or Vian.I first discovered Bataille about 20 years ago when I read by chance *The Story of the Eye*, still one of the most disturbing novels I have ever digested.
Bataille was a fringe surrealist who believed that the mainstream surrealists weren’t really following their own manifesto and weren’t truly committing to the horrid ideals of unpalatable truth.
This stress on sincerity at all costs made Bataille’s concerns overlap with those of the existentialists, creating a bizarre amalgam (normally surrealism and existentialism is in opposition).
Bataille her zaman okunmak için yüksek krediye sahip yazarlardan. Yapıtları bir bulmacayı andırıyor çoğu zaman. Chiviyazıları'ndan çıkan 'Göz'ün Hikayesi' her açıdan büyük bir filozofun görüşlerini barındırır içinde. Ayrıntı Yayınları'ndan çıkan 'Annem' toplamasında ki; kısa öykülerden, mini romanlara kadar her eseri de aynı derinliğe sahipken; bir yandan da kendine has muğlak bir çizgide yazılmıştır. Rahip C.'de onların yanına yakışır cinsten. Tartışmalı ve düşündürücü bir kurgusu var. Okumaya değer.
It is better read by poets and should not be ignored because the language and descriptions are very wonderful and why I'm giving the 4 instead of the 3.
I keep wanting to say "wtf, I know you write well, but you're putting one over on me, you're not really saying something that makes sense you're just being artsy here because it makes you look like the incomparable philosopher poet that people admire" What is he saying?
If you have a sense of humor you might laugh over the language which is overly formal, and you can get through it.I keep thinking is there something that I missed and will probably reread it so I can hopefully understand it better.
L'abbe C is Bataille's first novel and you can somewhat tell.
Underlying philosophical themes of the novel tend to steer the story too much and Bataille seems stuck between surrealist tendencies and developing realistic characters whom he can utilize to make commentary on the human condition.
That being said, this book is infectiously dark and eerie.
A story about a brother attempting to make his twin brother who is a priest sleep with his favorite whore is enough to make me like it enough.
A friend of mine told me to skip this Bataille and maybe he was right but I still enjoyed it.
I found this tale of twin brothers very dark.
Charles, seeking his pleasure and Robert the sombre priest seemed to me to be hell-bent on destroying each other in a version of the eternal triangle.
Charles met with Eponine, the young prostitute the men had known since childhood, at every chance he could find but she was determined to bed Robert, who in turn was obsessed by her but tormented by illness and his religion.
Written by Bataille in the 50s there is an innocence to the characters that makes the tale all the more poignant.
A most strange work. Not quite sure what he was trying to say. The language is rich and sonorous, the themes - the corruption of man and woman. Sartre says that Bataille has survived the death of God, I am not so sure.
About two-thirds of the way through, I finally started to understand what was happening, and the postscript made it seem a worthwhile read. One day I should probably re-read it knowing the outcome, but it'll be a long time before I undertake that goal. It's definitely a bit over my head.
I thought this story was very hard to follow as the author seemed to bounce back and forth from his own thoughts to one characters thoughts to anothers. It was, however, philosophically shocking and thus recommended since what doesn't kill us, only makes us stronger.
the only reason this book gets three instead of four stars is because it left me more frustrated than i was prepared to be. we wandered in circles until i was dizzy and uncertain of who felt love and who was just plain out of their heads...but i suppose this is life.
At page 117 I closed this dreary book.
A book seller approached me on a train headed to Sevastopol with a knife and the words "This book is distilled poison."
With angstful, adjective-heavy, sophmoric descriptions like "bilious nuns and slovenly maids" on every page, this book is no "Story of the Eye." Don't waste your time.
I have a thing for twins, and this novel by Bataille is the ultimate 'twins' story. Erotica that is almost revolutionary.
The brutality of de Sade or Peter Sotos (without the explicitness of either), the incandescent brevity of Duras and the obtuse and thrilling turns of phrase one finds in Blanchot or Klossowski. Extraordinary, as always.
Bataille expresses a philosophy of spiritual decadence in both his works of fiction and non fiction and the depths he is willing to lower his characters are at times shocking beyond mere erotica, beyond pornography and certainly beyond decency.Not this book.
It is beautifully written, subtle and I remember the moment I was when he tied everything together at the end.
How often moments from a book can you remember where you were when you read it 15 years later?
and well, for me, that's about it.This is nothing I could every try to write but I highly recommend it to everyone as reading material.
that moment?
The book seems to lend itself to a psychoanalytic reading...Jungian with Charles and Robert representing animus and anima (or maybe Charles representing animus and Eponine representing anima) or a Freudian reading with the brothers representing id and superego.
The two novels by Batailles that I have read seem to carry a great deal of philosophical depth, and if this period and style of literature was more interesting to me, I would spend some time with finding that meaning.
I'm glad I read the book, but I'm also very glad it was short.
Art arda Bataille okumak çok iyi bir fikirdi. İkiz kardeş olan ve biri rahip olan iki erkek ve bir kadın arasında geçiyor denilebilir. Zaman zaman Jules at Jim filmi tadında bir kurguya hapsolsam da, değil. Kadının Rahip C.yi elde edememişliği, onun kendisine ilgisizliği onu çıldırtır. Rahip C. üzerinde kardeşi vasıtasıyla baskı uygular. Bir rahip olmanın ve bu denli arzulanmanın kendi üzerindeki zorluklarını çok iyi aktarmıştır Bataille. Yine birinci tekil şahıs kullanılmış bu da okumayı çok kolay kılıyor.
I have never read a more erotic novel that no overt sex scenes. For this alone, this novel merits the three stars. This is not to say that the book is not maddening and manipulative...boy, is it. Many will simply feel jipped, others(as you can see) felt hypnotized...like someone that you follow around all day because youve convinced yourself that at the end of the day there will be a payoff. Don't look for a payoff here, you'll just get angry. Instead, revel in the mastery of the journey...so bizarre, so jarring, and sorry, SO French.
Whoa. Sex, death, disparity, and guilt, all wrapped up in less than 160 pages. The story is told poetically, although I admit my mind wandered a bit, as reading this was akin to trying an exotic cuisine for the first time; I'll need to try it again for my untrained palette to really appreciate it. There should, however, be some sort of warning label on the cover about reading this when one is depressed.
At once, it is compelling fiction and an analysis of the human mind. Till the very end, you're left wondering what it is that Charles is trying to not say about his brother..Does he really not? What it is that he decides to leave incomplete.. At what point do you give up.. so on and so forth... L'Abbe C makes me want to go back and read Story of the Eye once more.
Have you ever watched a movie because it happened to be on TV but you started it, like, halfway through so sometimes they'll start talking about things that happened earlier in the movie and you have no clue what they're talking about? That's how I felt with this book. It's a fast read and pleasant enough, I just felt like I had missed something...
"I have in my mind an obscenity so great that I could vomit the most dreadful words and it wouldn't be enough"Bataille spews less than what most might view as obscene saying more in spartan texts fluid gushing evocation. Scatters of truth slide languidly down the wall post bursts of anguish sidled with emotional gore.
Two brothers betray and ultimately destroy those that they love best.
Gyvenimo vertinimas turi prasmę tik tada, kai išklausoma nuomonė to, kuris kalbėjo paskutinis, ir protas nevaržomas tik tada, kai visi vienu metu šaukia ir vienas kito negirdi.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13840204
Interesting. Not his best.
The imagery Bataille conjures is dark and grotesque and you cannot pull away.
