https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/115076.Love_Walked_in
I finally met my match - an author that slowed me down! I'm a very fast reader - skimmer actually (you get more read that way), and the style and beauty of this book deserved to have every savory word read. Clearly an accomplished writer in the craft of poetry, de los Santos conveys the flow and beauty of the written word in this novel. In addition, she molds likeable, believable characters, and creates an intriging story.I will read anything she writes!
I would look at this book and read the back cover everytime I went to Borders.
As someone who has a few film courses under her belt (but generally dislikes all romantic comedies with very few exception ie "Bringing up Baby" and "How to Lose a Guy in Ten Days"), I still found that I mostly had no idea what Cornelia was referring when she mentioned these "classic movies".
I felt like classic romantic films 101 should be have been a prerequisite for reading this fluffy novel.
Who doesn't want like to feel a sense of some resolution afetr reading a book or seeing a film?
I think the author had so much to accomplish in those last few chapters (especially with making the plot conform to the romance formula) that the writing was focused on accomplishing the end, rather than telling the end.
Plot twists and turns abound in that third act, some, even, that I felt weren’t true to the characters.Some other minor complaints: (1) The chapters alternated between Cornelia (in first person) and Clare (in third person).
(3) This isn’t related to the book, but I think Sarah Jessica Parker is all wrong to play Cornelia in the movie.
What unfolds is a strange and at times hopeful narrative of relationships, connections, and love.Cornelia's narrative is chatty -- like a girlfriend catching up on a whopper of a story --, but it's often over the top.
But the author sets up a scenario that cannot be easily resolved, and instead of going for a realistic or difficult scenario, she pulls out every ridiculous, contrived plot-twist imaginable in the second half of the book.
Reading, it is truly what I love to do.
However, I do not like wordy books.
By this I mean, when something can be essentially and beautifully written in say 10 words, why ruin it by writing it with 20.
Yet, I could not wait for it to end because the boos itself is so over-the-top wordy, I just wanted to scream.
Perhaps it was just me, but some of the sentences were just painful because it was as if the author was just trying to see how many words she could fit in a sentence.
This is one of the best-written books I've read in years.
It far exceeded my expectations in terms of a first novel.Cornelia is someone I think I would be friends with in real life.
It was almost as if the main character was inviting you into her life.I didn't want to read it too quickly (and I couldn't put it down) because I felt like I had to savor every single word.
This book was an absolute pleasure to read, and I can't wait to read "Belong to Me" to see how my Cornelia's life turns out...
Her chapters alternated between Cornelia, a thirty-something cafe manager, and Clare, an eleven-year-old girl whose bipolar mom abandoned her.
But I found myself really enjoying the writing more in the Clare chapters, and the author's poetry background came through there.
Although one thing I noticed--and this is a pet peeve of mine when an author chooses to tell the same story through different POV-- is that the chapters tended to be redundant.
Clare would think something that Cornelia thought, and sure enough, next chapter, Cornelia would think it.
Things happened too conveniently--with Martin, with Mrs. Goldberg, with any character who existed only to make it 'easier' for Cornelia--that after awhile, I thought, "Of course.
[3+] Another easy, enjoyable read by de los Santos.
This is a chick-lit, romance novel with great heart.
The novel is told in alternating points of view: Cornelia, and Clare, an eleven-year-old with a chaotic home life.
Cornelia is likewise smart, independent, caring and compassionate, if occasionally blind to reality.
She does tend to rely too heavily on old movies to explain her life, or on which to pin her hopes for love.
The ending is also a little too convenient, but it’s a chick-lit romance, so I cut her some slack.
I’d read it previously, not realizing that this novel comes first.
Love Walked In by Marisa de los Santos3⭐I was going to give this book a 2 star rating but the ending was better. I was not a fan of Cornelia, I like Clare and Teo a whole lot more. As for the plot, it was predictable and that made it difficult to just read it and not skip ahead. I actually had to use the horrid audiobook to keep myself from skipping through the redundancies.Besides the ok ending I also liked the classic movie and book references. These oldies kind of hindered Cornelia because sh
Love Walked In by Marisa de los Santos3⭐️I was going to give this book a 2 star rating but the ending was better.
I actually had to use the horrid audiobook to keep myself from skipping through the redundancies.Besides the ok ending I also liked the classic movie and book references.
I love Cary Grant.
But the way Cornelia was going on and on and on about Cary Grant and how much Martin (whom I also didn’t like right away) almost made me tired of hearing about Cary Grant.
like the way I kept hearing about him in this book?So you see why this was almost a did-not-finish (dnf) read.
The main character's mother has just told her daughter about her life growing up with a mentally ill and alcoholic mother:“I swore nothing like that would ever touch this family.” And her whole body tilted forward when she said it so great was her ferocity.
My mother walked out then, and my father sat down beside me, staring into the fire.“It’s what she’s been protecting us from all this time,” I said with wonder in my voice.“Did you think all this was for free?
Happiness isn’t what happens when you whistle along pretending bad things don’t exist… I know that’s what you think goes on in this house, but you’re wrong.
I picked up this book by accident, not having read anything by this author, and I am so glad I did! This story is to be read slowly so as to savor the author's writing style. It is a book about a single woman, a wonderful little girl, and a lot of love!
I landed on 3 because while the prose was beautiful in places, usually Clare's story, in other places it felt too wordy and disjointed from the flow of the story.
There were a couple of places I felt like it made big leaps for the purpose of moving the story forward; however, I liked that the decisions made on behalf of Clare by everyone involved were for the right reasons.
This is one of the few books that made me feel like I had punched in the gut and had my heart singing at the same time which is why I nearly gave it 4 stars.
I just didn't think that Cornelia would give up the house she inherited to Viviana and Clare.
I also think that the book would have been slightly more interesting if Martin were still in the picture.
If the death enabled Cornelia to get custody of Clare, then it would have been worth it.
Yet I think without that occurrence, it would be interesting to see whether Martin was able to redeem himself, and if so, how he would have fit in the overall picture.Don't let these picky points lead you to believe that I wouldn't recommend the book, because I whole-heartedly do!
2.5 stars. Despite the witty, chatty, candid, smart, conversational tone, I was distracted from the story because of all the words. Too. Many. Words. It was a noisy book with all the words and book/movie references.....author seemed to be trying too hard. My apologies to readers who loved this book...it’s just not the right one for me. For more reviews visit my blog: readingladies.com
Well, if continual annoying references to old movies (in which I have absolutely no interest), a slightly less hackneyed (perhaps) story line, and a heroine who’s making a valiant effort at having a Personality qualifies as more intelligent chick lit, okay, I’ll give it to you.
Don’t average-looking people ever have romances?), quipping snappily to the reader right and left, and constantly saying things like, “I know this is a cliché but…” (as if that makes it okay for the book to be filled with clichés), is a 31-year-old manager of a coffee shop (could we get any more hip?
And I loved Clare, for her sweetness, for her childlike nature, yet her adult like look on life.
I became engrossed with these little details and stories, I lingered on every word, and when she finally got back to what she had started talking about before she went off on a tangent, the added details made the point she was getting to more meaningful, giving the point some background, supplying the reader with information that the character knew that we would have to know to really understand the point.This book is just beautiful.
or so (don't all great books take about that long??) I was so attached to the characters and wanted to know how things were going to work out.
The book has two heroines as narrators, Cornelia and Clare.
Cornelia's personality is witty and funny, sometimes obnoxious and rambles on (like I'm doing now) but in a cute, funny way, comparing life's moments to classic movies such as "The Philadelphia Story".
I really enjoyed the book and the author's lyrical way of writing.
A very delightful book to read, and even to discuss.
I would love to talk about it with anyone who reads it!
The stars are for Teo, being half-Filipino.
More about this soon.***UPDATE***Love Walked In was the book club’s book of the month for February.
It was supposed to give out feels (was it?) and it did, except that I felt the feels much later in the story.
Or maybe it was just me because I didn’t really feel anything for Martin Grace.
Sure, he was depicted to be Cornelia’s dream boy (did I just say dream boy?
How high school, haha!) but I didn’t like him at all.
I didn’t like him at the start — at the time he walked in to Cornelia’s coffee shop.
Sorry, Anastasia, this book sucked.This is your typical chick lit novel where the single girl (Cornelia) meets the guy of her dreams, hates the guy of her dreams, and loves the guy who has been under her nose the whole time.
So Cornelia steps up and decides to take Clare in.
I mean who goes on a couple of dates with someone and then decides "oh, I will take your daughter in, because you clearly don't know what you're doing." She also compares reference librarians to cheese shop owners.
Must, must, must get past the title, which I would bet you a million trillion dollars is not what the author wanted to call this book, smacking as it does of some marketing gal with funky glasses but terrible taste in books' idea of a kicky funky and SELLABLE!
title.
But must get past it, for this book is wholly delightful and surprising and moving and lovely.
The story is sweet and moving, and unpredictable in ways that make somehow make sense--not in the quirky for quirkiness's sake way that drives me bonkers.
This book hates its title as much as I do, I just know it.
3.5 starsCornelia works in a cafe and meets someone whom she starts dating.
Clare is 11-years old and having a hard time with her mother, as her mother seems to be acting very odd.
Clare knows something is wrong and is afraid her mother is sick.
The book started ok for me, but got better.
It was ok at the start while I got to know the characters and what was going on.
It really picked up for me in the middle after Cornelia and Clare met, but I have very mixed feelings about the ending.
https://bookrhapsody.wordpress.com/20...
Last night's review failed to post.I enjoyed reading the book but several plot points were annoyingly convenient.
I've never before been as aware of the author while reading, it was a bit distracting.
didn't help I found myself thinking, "That's because you're IN a book!"Yet with all of these things I did still enjoy reading the book and the ending felt right.
I mean emotionally, how it felt.
Very often a book I've enjoyed will lose me because of how it ends, either too abruptly or too conveniently or without...
This ending didn't fail me.
IT took me awhile to get into the author's writing style but as the story progress I was hooked.
Also, especially around the 1/3 point of the novel, I simply found Clare's story to be more interesting than Cornelia's (maybe because that's exactly the kind of story that I more often than not don't find myself reading), and only near the end was I beginning to pull for Cornelia again (and hope that her inevitable relationship with Teo would avoid typical chick-lit.
I'm not sure what I mean exactly, just that my mental pictures were fuzzy at best when Clare and Cornelia walked around the city of Philadelphia, for example.Overall, the book was pretty-well executed, not entirely predictable (yet satisfying in a happy-ending sort of way), and genuine enough to allow me to suspend my disbeliefs long enough to fall into the story De Los Santos was telling.
I've been trying to read something by de los Santos for some time now, but I put it off because I thought it was pure romance.
(I'm not much for sappy love stories.) I don't know how to describe this book but it's not all fluff.
Ok, yes, there's some romance but also loss, longing, fear, grief, and healing.
I read 75% of it in one sitting...
It's that irresistible!I will be putting this on the 2019 book club reading list as one with a character dealing with mental illness.
It isn't the central theme, but it is something that is included in the plot throughout the book.
The book starts out when a stranger walks into a store and asks the main character to come to London with him on a whim, which is somehow supposed to be romantic because he's handsome and elegant.
And I was confused with the intertwining story of a child that had nothing to do with the relationship.And then, it snapped into place and I realized the love that walked in was not this swept off a movie screen moment.
Even though I couldn't picture him, I liked him enough, except for that one major flaw (view spoiler)[that he's her sister's husband.
Even when I didn't like the story, I wanted to.
And the alternating narratives of Claire and Cornelia indicated that this isn't your usual romance novel, you know, the one where they trace the path from meet cute to falling in love to happily ever after.
And I am usually okay with most of them if done to my liking, or obscured by other things like engaging writing, which was actually the case for Love Walked In.But I was a little less amenable about these things which felt like contrivances, or what I ended up calling as KABLAM-Y Moments.KABLAM!
I thought about putting this down around page 100 because I wasn't enjoying it at all.
I decided to stick it out a little further, because I felt like the story was just starting to gain steam.
I thought this book was terrible.
No one I've ever met talks like that and I'm fairly confident that no one thinks like that.
You like movies.
Who cares?The characters were flat, the story was predictable and everything was just so effing cliche.
You're an author, think of something different, something real.Ugh. Waste.of.time.
