https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232459.The_New_Bill_James_Historical_Baseball_Abstract
The first third or so of the book is a decade-by-decade history of the game.
Each brief history includes information on who played the game, how it was played and where it was played; how it changed from one decade to another; who were the stars of each decade; and bits and pieces of information that you never even thought about before.
The rest of the book discusses James' evaluations of the best 100 layers at each position.
As you might imagine, these evaluations are statistically-based, but always tempered by James' thought and interesting more subjective analysis.
They asked me to guess the date I read this book.
James lays out his methods and arguments for sabrmetrics, the art of judging baseball talent through a historical lens, through the use of stats and a reasonable analysis thereof.
But more than the stats are the stories; the historical anecdotes are those that you can find only by combing the baseball section of your local city library for weeks on end, or by accosting some crazy old guy who once saw Babe Ruth pitch for the Red Sox. And best of all, James injects a healthy dose of opinion and attitude into everything he says.
If you are a baseball fan, this book is required reading.
[...] Maybe we could compromise, and list him in future encyclopedias as 'Ole' Hearing and Speech Impaired Hoy'") or just being sexist for no apparent reason ("Our government at this moment is forcing universities to spend millions of dollars a year upon the frankly preposterous theory that women care as much about sports as men do, or anyway ought to.).
Anyone who likes baseball, whether a casual or hardcore fan, should immediately get this book.
Bill James emphasizes that we love baseball b/c we are emotionally invested in it.
So he writes the history of the game in a way that we can be emotionally invested in historical players and teams.
I'm only through the 1930s right now, but it is already one of the best baseball books I've ever read.A note - this is written by a baseball stat geek, but you don't have to know that much about stats to understand it.
I, however, love stat geeks.
This is my favorite book of all-time.
I’ve spent more hours reading this book than any other 10 books combined.
It’s my sports Bible.
I love the blurbs about the players, the decade-by-decade league snapshots, and everything to do with how Bill James assesses the value of baseball players and the sport itself.
Bill James isn’t the greatest writer ever – he can fluctuate kind of wildly between hard-nosed critiques and sentimental misgivings.
But his passion for baseball is never in question.
And his formulas, especially Win Shares, are the pioneering standards for how baseball statistics should be valued.
Instead of just slapping hits, runs and errors into a petri dish, he's got his own (well-researched) spin on things and looks at baseball through a totally different lens than his forerunners, making it at one time both a game of statistic and of individuals.
He covers the early days (1850s) up to the present in amazing detail but with a great understanding of the relevance of those oft-maligned statistics.
His wife also contributes giving great sidebar topics from time-to-time.
It might be a history of baseball, but it's a personal history.A fascinating read for anyone who gives a loves the game of baseball.
Bill James again brings original insight to historical debates without losing track of what makes baseball the best sport. His closing sections that rank players through the ages will remain readable and valuable for years, and James's own open reconsideration of stands he once took is a testament to his value as a thinker and writer.
Interesting analysis, especially what the playoffs would have looked like using today’s metrics
Massive amounts of information here.Took a long time to read, but I feel likeI know baseball even more than I did.Will be keeping this book close by for future reference.
So, anyway, I digress, as Bill James does.
A critic has said that James is wasting his brilliant mind on baseball, but of course there's no such thing as wasting anything re: baseball.
But he also started the mode of writing A LOT about baseball, and almost every sabermetrician in the last 20 years owes something to him.
Someone with better writing skills should take a few of his articles and expound a bit deeper about the social and moral implications they cover.
Rice was one-dimensional--but nobody did that dimension better in that era.
This book should be to ardent baseball fans what the Bible is to devout Christians.
Few people are willing to evaluate players from all prominent leagues (especially the Negro Leagues) and all eras due to a dearth of meaningful information, yet James approaches the task with earnest humility.
The writing of James supports the notions that brevity is the soul of wit and that digression is a necessary component of worthwhile entertainment.
It effectively illustrates how baseball appeals to the statistician, historian, sentimentalist, writer, collector, entertainer, realist, dreamer, seeker, logophile, provocateur, and child in each of us.
He then turned to doing this Historical Abstract which reviews how baseball was played decade by decade AND ranks the top 100 players at every position.
In one instance, he didn't even try and left it at "it's too far over your head, just believe me it works" which was extremely annoying.The decade reviews are fun to read and mostly well organized.
One player (Jeff Bagwell ranked #4 under First Basemen) wasn't even given a blurb...
If you are going to rank a person then give a good reason (i.e. like George Sisler) for your ranking!So, for these reasons, I cannot give this book a 5 star rating!NOTE: I downloaded the 2010 edition and re-read before writing this review.
I’d like to know where James ranks Derek Jeter on the all-time shortstop list, likewise Ivan Rodriguez on the catcher list, etc.
James uses some excellent concepts, like secondary average (which is meant to capture a similar thing as OPS) and the basic idea that you need to look at players’ stats in comparison to the other players playing at the same time.
Lots of things to argue about too, i.e., James claims Craig Biggio is a better player than Ken Griffey Jr. and offers a long and detailed argument to substantiate it.
This book is a very entertaining reference for baseball fans.
Bill James has made his name through quantitative analysis of the game, looking for answers to questions that could not be answered, or had unsatisfying/incomplete answers, through "traditional" baseball statistics.
James intends the book to be picked up and browsed in small bits, not read from cover-to-cover.
I'll keep this (and my son's Bill James 2011 Baseball Handbook) on the end table beside my chair, and I'll refer to it while watching or listening to games all season long.
This is my favorite book of all-time.
I 19ve spent more hours reading this book than any other 10 books combined.
It 19s my sports Bible.
I love the blurbs about the players, the decade-by-decade league snapshots, and everything to do with how Bill James assesses the value of baseball players and the sport itself.
Bill James isn 19t the greatest writer ever 13 he can fluctuate kind of wildly between hard-nosed critiques and sentimental misgivings.
But his passion for baseball is never in question.
And his formulas, especially Win Shares, are the pioneering standards for how baseball statistics should be valued.
Definitely my favorite in the William James oeuvre.
His brother Henry had to move to England to get away from, "that damn insidious game played by thieves and drunkards and loud-voiced imbeciles, while those who go by that most disharmonious appellation of 'kranks' look on from the bleachers where they shout their vituperations in the most vile abuse of our glorious mother tongue mine ears have e'er witnessed." What a spoil sport.
Good thing William didn't agree or we wouldn't have glorious tomes like this to refer to any time the simple phrase, "scoreboard" will not end an argument about baseball.
Best historical book on baseball from the founder of sabermetrics, which is the modern statistical analysis of players.
(Zzzzzzzzzz) Yet, it is the stories of the people are what brings life to the book.
From one of the earlier editions he writes about Mordecai "Three Finger" Brown, who was an early 20th century pitcher who lost two fingers in a farming accident.
He was able to throw a ball with a motion unlike any other player because of his loss and became a Hall of Famer because of it.
James wrote, "Everyone starts out unequal.
What a ride!
As far as historical baseball reference books go, "The New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract" is second to none.
Admittedly, most people don't find terms like "baseball" and "historical abstract", particularly exciting, so don't make this your next book club read.
However, it is the perfect bedside book for the passionate fan with a healthy respect for stats.The 1000 page tome contains fascinating anecdotes, statistical wizardry, clever writing, and a staggering amount of research.
Bill James brings so much creativity and passion to the table, that you can't help but immerse yourself in his books.
Few writers can claim to have changed the world, but Bill James probably comes as close as anyone, as his musings on baseball changed the way both fans and professionals see the game.This book is split into a couple of sections, the first looking at how the game has changed over the years, the second providing player ratings.
The main interest in the second part is the player essays - James is a good writer, much more than a stats guru, as he has been portrayed.
Indeed he has published an entertainingly written book entitled Popular Crime which shows real insight.Probbaly not much interest here if you're not into baseball, however.
The godfather of modern statistical analysis gives his take on, uh, everything baseball. Team histories, decade-by-decade comparisons, the top 100 all-time players at every position, random essays, win shares, and much, much more. Throw in an acerbic wit and common sense approach to baseball and you've got 998 pages of pure baseball bliss. Yes, its a 998 page baseball encyclopedia and I read it cover-to-cover. Twice. (Just kidding about the "twice" part, but I seriously could read it again if I had a lot more time on my hands.)
I was a big fan of Bill James' annual Baseball Abstract when he started issuing them in the 80s. His statistical analysis of teams and players provided a startlingly unique viewpoint, and his readable writing style was the clincher. This reference (2001 edition) entertainingly summarizes, decade-by-decade, the highlights of professional baseball from the 1870s, then goes on to rate the 100 best players at each position, each with revealing biographical sketches (my favorite section).
Im a avid fan of Bill James and his work after watching the movie "Money Ball" a year or two ago! I think he explains everything quite well and expresses his opinion very well! As a baseball player my self Im quite the stat rat all ways wanting to know my batting avg ops slugging percentage etc etc ... ANd I can relate to it really well also!So over all this book was a pleasure to read and I'm looking forward to more books by Bill James!
Although I am no fan of today's sabermetric groupthink, Bill James has the gift of making things interesting. Even if I may disagree with many things he writes about, he has unique insights that make his books worthwhile reading. Baseball players are rated by position in this huge volume, but James finds interesting angles to pursue which can go anywhere. For the fan of historical baseball this book is a must.
A magnificent book on the history of baseball. The book is divided in two sections, the first is the game broken out by decade, the second explores the best players by position. The stories are remarkable, the scope stunning. James's ability to put time and context into an easy to read format is amazing. I have read and re-read this book many times and each time find something new. Very highly recommended.
I doubt I'd like Bill James in person, he's occasionally wrong-headed and reactionary, neither of which is to my taste. But there's no gainsaying he has been a groundbreaker and puts a lot of work into this volume and it's fascinating and readable. I'd give it a 9 out of 10, and if I were politically conservative (which I'm not) and felt that those types of views should mix with sports (which I don't) then I'd probably give it 10.
This is a book I will keep forever, reading and re-reading segments. A collection of essays and annotated lists. James is heavy on rationality and light on nostalgia - he shows how some of the legendary players from the early 1900's are a bit overrated, and advocates convincingly for some 80's and 90's players. One particularly lucid essay contains concrete suggestions on how and why to speed up baseball games.
THE baseball book to end all baseball books. Jam packed with so much freaking information about America's pastime at times it is almost overwhelming. However, if you have questions about the sport of baseball this book will give you answers. From the mid 1800s to today Bill James book is great when used for reference. Upon thoroughly reading through cover-to-cover I was able to produce a publishable college book report/research project.
Though I still have a soft spot for the earlier edition of this book, taken together the two (along with James' annual Baseball Abstracts of the 1980s) were the largest influence on my own baseball-history books. Filled with strong opinions well argued, this book is also packed with fascinating anecdotes, glimpses of vanished times, and reminders of tremendous players, games, and seasons that otherwise might be forgotten. A book I've returned to many time.
This is the best baseball book I've ever read. If you love the game, you will too. Bill James takes us through the entire history of baseball through his unique perspective. It's one of those wonderful books you can pick up at any time and enjoy it for a few pages or a few hundred. I have read it countless times over the years since it was published - and still find fascinating new stuff in it. Now if only he'd write a new updated version!
No finished date because I'll never finish this. I've read it from cover to cover at least once and refer to it often for research purposes as well as for fun. As one would expect from Bill James, it is both informational and entertaining. Probably my favorite baseball reference book (with apologies to Total Baseball). One of my favorite baseball books period. Honestly, I'd feel a bit lost without it.
