https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10917.My_Sister_s_Keeper
This is that book for me.Picoult's dialogue is excellent, but her characters annoy me and the ending of this book was such a cop-out I almost wrote her an angry letter about it, but decided against it, as she'd never read it anyway.Basically, "My Sister's Keeper" is about a family with three kids - I forget their real names, so I'm giving them fake ones: Token Boy Child, Leukemia, and Spare Parts.
She loved Spare Parts the way you love that child's trust fund or college savings.
At this point doctors don't even believe Kate would survive a kidney transplant, but her parents still want the procedure done.
The plot is stupid: Julia was the poor girl that ended up in a rich school her oh-so-loving parents desperately got her into.
The story when told through Jesse, the 18-year-old delinquent brother of Anna and Kate, is also generally ridiculous.
Although the stories of Jesse, Campbell, and Julia are irritating, nothing is more infuriating than how the author ties up the story in the end.
That's right, we learn that Anna was willing to donate her kidney until Kate told her not to.
My mom lent me the book and she loved it, everyone tells me they loved it and I'm sort of hating it while I read.
But I know it's just me and that other people are going to love this story.
I once found an Anita Shreve book in the basement of the house I moved into, crammed under the oil tank.
Never one to pass up a book, I gave it a read, got two chapters in and wanted to throw it back under the oil tank myself.
the author painfully over uses the dramatic blackout technique where she writes a line that's trying too hard to be clever or profound and then fades to black - aka, leaves extra space before the next paragraph or ends a chapter - sometimes with no time break between one sentence and the next.
such a cheap trick - does this impress anyone any more?the author writes the entire novel as a cliff hanger - another piece of shameless manipulation that i despise - with the whole novel spanning no more than a few days.
This was a horrible read. Premise: Great. Should be really interesting. Execution: Terrible.Ending: Basically the worst ending I've ever read in anything. Ever. Wish: I wish someone had spoken up after the first read and called out the author on some of the really bad plot devices and decisions in this book. Just like someone should have stopped George Lucas before Episodes 1-3. This could have been good- really good. But it just wasn't.
So it was no surprise when the young reader in me sort of jumped up when I saw a friend of mine reading this book and she described it to me.Boy was it a book well chosen.
Picoult writes from the views of a few different key characters, allowing the reader to get an extremely well-rounded look at the story.
In the end a decision is made, a decision that, while reading the book, I was constantly wondering what Picoult was going to do, because either way one fully supported side was going to lose.
I spent years avoiding Jody Picoult's books like the plague.
It may even have something to do with the fact that the woman has the ability to crank these insanely thick books out like she's some sort of writing machine from hell.
At least, no good author can do such a thing, amirite?But finally, after being assured that Jody is actually quite talented, that her books are intriguing and worthwhile, I relented and picked up Nineteen Minutes.
I also feel incredibly stupid for thinking that Jodi Picoult was a good writer.
I hate novels where parenting is questioned, simply because I too often find myself thinking, “Well I would never do THAT.” I then have to do the whole knock-on-wood routine and hope that I didn’t just invite divine retribution for being too judgmental. So it was with Jodi Picoult’s novel My Sister’s Keeper. After reading the summary of the novel, I knew that I would never make the choices that the parents shown did. After reading the novel, I found myself questioning what I might really do if
I hate novels where parenting is questioned, simply because I too often find myself thinking, “Well I would never do THAT.” I then have to do the whole knock-on-wood routine and hope that I didn’t just invite divine retribution for being too judgmental.
In case you missed the summary, My Sister’s Keeper is the story of Anna, a thirteen year old girl genetically conceived to be a match for her leukemia-positive sister.
If my child were starving, how easy would it be to remain true to my moral perspectives and not steal (assuming, of course, the government weren’t around to save me)?

Waggle mom paper doll and have her blah, blah, blah and then Over here is the Big Bad Lawyer doll… ooooh, he’s a ruthless go-getter with a hazy past, but he’ll have some secrets to pull out at the end so we’ll realize he’s a decent, stand up guy after all.
Waggle lawyer paper doll and have him blah blah blah, and so on.The plot was all right through all of that until the big Law and Order courtroom twist at the end.
This book is featured on this week's Throwback Thursday @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...Leave it to Jodi Picoult to captivate me from cover to cover.
I read this in 2005 and remember that I couldn't put this down until the final shocking end.Sara's daughter Kate is sick.
I couldn't put the book down.
The book is written with multiple character viewpoints and the story unfolds quickly.
Picoult has the capability of twisting a story so far that you can never figure out what's ahead or how it'll end.
This is just one of my favorite books by her.
SPOILERS "There are some things we do because we convince ourselves it would be better for everyone involved. We tell ourselves that it's the right thing to do, the altruistic thing to do. It's far easier than telling ourselves the truth." When Sara Fitzgerald discovers that her daughter Kate suffers from leukemia, she decides that she will fight for her child’s life at all cost. Even if that cost is someone else’s life. And this is how Anna is born. The girl who has never belonged to herself, w
When Sara Fitzgerald discovers that her daughter Kate suffers from leukemia, she decides that she will fight for her child’s life at all cost.
When Anna files a lawsuit against her parents, wanting a medical emancipation, she has no doubt that her daughter is in the wrong, that she wants to escape her responsibility to keep the family together by keeping her sister alive.
Kate keeps on living, but with feeling that she cheated death, that she lives somebody else’s life, bearing within herself the same feeling of wrongness her sister struggles with while alive.
I'm guessing everyone has read this book - but maybe not???
When I saw another GR's post she just read it...
and it was one of the most disturbing books she ever read.., I can relate.
WAY before this movie came out...(with its different ending).....I couldn't move at one point while reading.
I was on my way to the gym that early morning...but I was just a wreck----crying just too hard at the house alone...( not knowing anyone who had read this book at the time).., I didn't get off the 'floor' ....
This became one of the most talked about books...
Children are not created to serve as organ donors unless we are talking here of Kazuo Ishiguro's mileau in his Never Let Me Go.Thank God for the long weekend I had the time to finish some of my stalled books in my currently-reading folder.
This is the reason why I do not watch TV teleseryes unless when my mom is in town and I would like to bond with her by us watching her soap operas on the telly.But contrary to most of my friends' reviews here in Goodreads, I loved the ending in the book.
For me, reading Picoult is like bungee jumping.
Decided to re-read it recently as I happened to catch part of the movie on TV the other day.This is Jodi Picoult at her finest.
It gained more popularity when the movie came out but I was a fan from the moment I opened the book and read the first page.
At age 13, Anna decides to hire a lawyer so she can sue her parents basically for rights to her own body.I found this book to be so engrossing that I read it in two sittings.
Jodi Picoult handled issues sensitively and wrote a thoughtful, moving story that keeps you interested from start to finish.
The premise was to conceive a sibling that could be a resident "body parts donor" for her older sister.
Although, as a mother, I fully understand how imperative it was to forge ahead and do whatever was necessary to save her older daughter; I, too, would do everything...everything, that is, short of creating an innocent child to be a living body parts donor.I found myself angry with the mother, and my anger eventually transferred to the author.
So, although I find the premise nightmarish and cringe-worthy, I will not "kill the messenger," after all; instead, I applaud Picoult's superb writing style.
it would be impossible for me to overstate how much i hated this book.
I guessed the end 5 pages into it, but read it through anyway (why?)(probably because everyone else in nursing school was reading it and wanted to tell me how good it was.
If you are 34 years old and can't get past what someone did to you in high school, you are NOT MATURE ENOUGH to be a lawyer and should probably just kill yourself now.
I get the feeling that this woman found a grad school paper about organ donation and wrote a novel around it in a week.
Maybe less.I hated this book.
My Sister's Keeper was one of the most heart wrenching stories I've ever read.
Anna's sister, Kate, is dying from a rare form of leukemia.
Her sister is in need of a kidney and Anna's decided she's had enough of being told how to use her body.
She decides to sue her parents for medical emancipation and refuses to give up her kidney.
What follows is a harrowing tale told in the view of six people affected by Anna's decision.
I really can't say too much else without giving anything away, but this is a must read, albeit an emotional one.
For readers who don't mind Message Books in which plot points and characters are jerked around for ultimate emotional manipulation.
As good a book as it was a film, if not better, My Sister's Keeper is a compelling novel that draws dysfunctional characters together as a feud between them threatens to end the life of a sister with terminal cancer. I found myself disgusted by the mother, though. Her haste to overprotect one child and exploit the other one for spare parts was really cruel and disturbing, though I don't think she meant it to be. Excellent novel, and I'd definitely recommend it.
From then on I have started asking myself these questions.The hardest thing I faced while reading this book is that I don’t have anyone to blame.
Can you blame Sara or Brian because they want one of their child to live?
But Jesse was not asking extra attention.
There were times when I was too busy with school and my mother got busy with me, taking me to school and picking me up, giving me extra attention because I was aiming higher in life and most probably I had the potential to achieve the goal.
My sister took care of me at that time.
But at the same tine I think the author took the easy way out with the ending and didn't give some of the characters the chance to reach their potential.
As for the ending I think the author took the easy way out.
Once again Anna is sacrificed for Kate, but this time, not by Sara, but the author.
I would have liked to see Sara deal with the fact that Kate didn't want to go on as she was.
I feel like Sara should have suffered with knowing that she didn't really love Anna.
Many reviews on GR mentioned that this book has a terrible ending, maybe I should’ve seen it coming but I didn’t.
I just want to say that I’m very disappointed that the author failed miserably after posing a great dilemma.
I’m still giving it 3 stars for the first 95% of the story and only dropped my rating by 1 star.
Even with that ridiculous end, I would still recommend this book if you’re looking for a story set in our days that will make you question yourself.
I listened to the audiobook and if you’re looking for a good audio, this one won’t disappoint.
This book was incredible! Devastating though for sure! There is really no words to put how moving and engrossing this story is. You can see both sides of the debate but at the same time it is so hard to choose which is the better side compared to the ethical side and possible even realistic. I was thoroughly engrossed and had so much internal mental debates about this book. I still do not know how I feel about Sara. My quick and simple overall is just one word for this book: AMAZING!
The conflict alone is what makes this book fascinating - the story focuses on two sisters, Anna and Kate.
When Anna learns that Kate needs a kidney transplant, she sues her parents for the rights to her own body.
It was then that I discovered that, like Dan Brown and William Shakespeare, Jodi Picoult is able to write wonderful stories that keep the reader entertained from start to finish.
Picoult's novels follow this track: Improbable and dramatic event (Sister suing parents over kidney transplant, Amish girl accused of killing her baby, father arrested for kidnapping his own daughter), dramatic trial, switching narratives, two people falling in love who shouldn't, dramatic trial decision, twist ending.
Beautiful, tragic and thought provoking.
“You don’t love someone because they’re perfect, you love them in spite of the fact that they’re not.” 3 1/2 stars. Lowered my rating because of that ending I saw coming a mile away.Whoa, that was a seriously intense family drama. Such a compelling, original plot that brought up a lot of questions, but the author left them for the reader to decide. I love when authors do that, instead of answering controversial topics with their own opinion. Everyone's going to have a different opinion, so why
Everyone's going to have a different opinion, so why not leave the questions open?My Sister's Keeper follows thirteen-year-old Anna, who is suing her parents for the right to her own body.
She was literally created in a medical lab to be a donor for her sister, Kate, who has leukemia.Ever since Anna was an infant, blood, bone marrow, and more have been drawn from her to save her sister.
Their ragged hopelessness about Kate's situation was shown, and they were desperate to do anything to save their daughter - even if it meant risking Anna's life.The turnout isn't quite satisfactory, for in the end there is no right answer.
Thanks to him I had developed a thing for lawyers.I also loved his side story with Julia.I was surprised by the why he kept his dog, I could had never guessed.I loved Brian (the dad) and the way he supported his wife the entire book, even when he was doubting her decisions .He really didn't want anything more than to keep his family together.I felt sorry for Jesse.He was so neglected by his parents that he felt as if he wasn't part of this family .The ending was a huge shocker for me.
The Fault in Our Stars قبل My Sister's Keeper كان هناكشاهدت الفيلم وآلمني جدا وأوجعني, مع اني لقيت ن
Well.....that answers that: would I enjoy Jodi Picoult's writing?
Answer: not really.
A romance is thrown in that brought nothing to the table & wasn't a part of the main story.
The story behind the service dog was also another red herring and a secret that didn't need to be so.
Then, after all that, and we wait to find out what the final decision will be.....the story changes tack and the author ends it in an incredibly lazy way.
I'm glad I read a Jodi Picoult book so that now, when I see one of her titles, I don't have to wonder whether I might like it; I'll know that I probably wouldn't and can easily walk away.
