https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14654.Encyclopedia_Brown_and_the_Case_of_the_Secret_Pitch
I'm reading this aloud to my freshman.[gushy love song follows:]"Time to practice your deductive reasoning skills," I announce, and they all sit up straight, close their mouths, and fix their eyes on me.
It's the only time during the period when I don't have to wait for silence, the only time I don't have to remind them to be civil, the only time I've got every single student focusing on the same objective.NOBODY sleeps through Encyclopedia Brown.
Encyclopedia Brown is the best artillery I've got in my (substantial) arsenal, and I will never, ever, stop loving the effect he's had on my students.
Eli had his first boys book club today.
2 other boys from his class came over.
After letting them run around, we came in and had some popcorn and gingerale ice cubes (they were in one of the mysteries) and Kool-aid.
The book discussion was light, but the boys had a surprising amount to say about the book, and knew so many of the details.
They colored in some bookplates, made bookmarks and then we played kickball.
I had planned on having some water balloon games, but Emma tripped with the whole cooler of balloons and their were no survivors.
This book is about Encylopedia brown. a yong boy who knows everything about anything and how he solves crimes. My favorite one is with the tigers secret shooting range.
reread on 2/22/10 and upgraded from three stars to five stars
In a read aloud to the whole class, my third graders could figure out about half of these with some significant prompting.
All that being said, I think these books are great for kids picking up on and remembering details, and using logic to solve puzzles.
Sometimes they need some prompting to get going.
If they were struggling, I often would put the section of text with the clue on the board and re-reading with emphasis would help.I also love how different the world of these books are, and how the kids don't really get why.
This was the second Encyclopedia Brown book That I have given a read.
I first picked up a book in this series because Barry Lyga made mention of it on his blog.
I find that since I started reading these stories I have been more focused in my other reading also.
So pick it up and give it a try and if you read them when you were young introduce them to a young reader in your life.Read the review on my blog Book Reviews and More and reviews of other books by Donald J.
Sobol's second Encyclopedia Brown collection requires a little more thinking and less guess work (and not a single instance of being outright wrong, which Encyclopedia was on his very first case).
(Sobol is unclear as to which version of the game is being played, but the one with which I grew up involved throwing knives near your friends feet; there were injuries as a result.) I do want to give Sobol credit for not making the mysteries so easy that any child could immediately solve them.
Book #2 in the Encyclopedia Brown series of books by Donald J.
I remember reading them as a child and loving trying to figure out the mysteries, so I was eager to share them with our girls.
Our oldest figured one of them out, and understood most of the others, once I read the solution, but a few of them went over her head.
We'll probably try the next one in the series in a few more months (or years.) And I hope they'll love them as much as I did, when they are old enough to read them on their own.
I recommend Encyclopedia Brown. I was 8 when I first encountered this series. I loved it. It was recommended by a boy that I liked. What I liked about these books is that it taught me how to think before making wild guesses. Each book had several cases which were easy to read and follow for a child. I recommend this to any parent looking for helping their child to use logic and deductive reasoning. Great on how to look at relevant facts at a child's level.
Every bit as fun as the first book! Leroy (Encyclopedia) continues to be a delightful main character, the mysteries continue to be entertaining, and the side characters are still fun and funny.My favorite thing is still that the solutions to the mysteries are at the end of the book so they can't be accidentally spoiled. Very clever!
3.5 rating. There were a couple mysteries happening in Texas specifically, that I found I couldn't get into. There were a few others where I had to reread a section because I tuned out. (view spoiler)[I don't like how Sally just turned on Encyclopedia Brown and went out with a boy when they are only in fifth grade! What is happening? (hide spoiler)]
Encyclopedia Brown Can't say enough good things about this series.  Written for kids but still a great read for adults on a nostalgia kick.
More short mysteries to be solved by the reader.
I read this series as a young elementary aged child in the late 1960's-early 1970's; I was 8-12 years old; and loved them.
Fast forward to the current time and I still enjoyed following the clues and solving the mysteries.
(I'll admit it there was one I had a little trouble solving).This series follows Leroy Brown, known as Encyclopedia, so known because he had read so many books his head held more facts than a library.
After all it's never too early to help a child discover the love of reading and the power of a good story.

I honestly didn’t like this book.
It is like a mystery book each chapter is a mystery.
I like mystery books when the whole book is one great mystery that either gets solved at the end, or in the sequel.
The Did a good job when he added the answer to mystery at a certain page.
For example, at the end of a chapter the mystery still has not been solved.
You would have to go to a specific page to find the answer.
To make the book better I would make the whole book one big mystery.
I thoroughly enjoyed this series as a child, and now my own boys are reading them for light reading fun. It is a book well-suited for people who enjoy puzzles. It is family friendly, if a bit dated in the tradition of Mayberry RFD. What I especially enjoy about the series is the use of simile throughout the stories. Some are over-the-top odd, but many of the examples display a profound understanding of childhood and rural America.
I didn't like this book that much because the mysteries were very confusing and I didn't get them. I LIKED (there IS a like) this book because I like mystery book and the are very fun to read. I like the parts when Encyclopedia catches all of the crooks. >_<
I read this to my 2 boys, who are 10 and 8. They both loved it!! My 10 year old solved a few cases but they both enjoyed listening and analyzing the answers to solve the case. Very entertaining and great book to make you analyze and think things through!
When I was a kid, these books completely stumped me. Now I'm the Queen of Trivia, and I find the mini mysteries a lot easier to solve! This is going into my classroom library for my students to enjoy.
Re-reading as an adult. Still fun.
Basically the same response as for the last EB book I read to Kai.
These are stories good enough to share with the next generation. Quick to read and the mystery requires a bit of mental energy--not a bunch of giveaways. Still love the series.
I don't think you quite understand. At age 8, I WAS Encyclopedia Brown!! Oh I loved this so much. 5 nostalgic stars!!!
I loved these mysteries when I was a kid, and now my children and I are enjoying them together. A really fun series.
Do they even write children's books like this anymore? I am excited to share these classics with my 7 year old.
I think I read this when I was a kid. Obviously interesting for kid only
I loved the Encyclopedia Brown stories as a kid. Now I see the simple easy solutions to the crimes. Read carefully and you will too.
Good series for kids (and adults) who like brain teasers. I thought maybe this one would have a sports theme, but only the first case relates to the title of the book.
Like the first book in the series, this was a set of fun and simple mysteries to solve.
For some reason, I had more problems with some of the missing logic in this book's solutions (view spoiler)[(Why would you assume someone made an ambush up vs.
But again, for a kid's introduction to deduction and mysteries, these books are great.One thing I didn't mention in my review of the first book is that I love that, in a book written 50 years ago, Sally Kimball is Encyclopedia's partner/bodyguard who can beat up any kid in Idaville.
