https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92227.The_Green_Mile_Part_1
The start of a modern classic. Simple , smart, and breathtaking.
Movies! I remember watching this one when it came out! It's so odd to be reading the tale a few decades later without even having a desire to watch the movie. :)It turns out that Hanks with a prostate problem was NOT the most memorable part of the movie. It's the mouse, of course. The main character is always the mouse, and I'm not even referring to Steamboat Willie.The short story is mild and reflective, even with the scent of rape, murder and peppermint, which is odd, all considered. And yet, it is still quintessential SK.

It was 1996 when I came across this, a happy accident, at my local 7-11, near the bat tree.It is 1932 when we first meet Paul Edgecombe, head screw, and our narrator and walk The Green Mile at Cold Mountain, where men are sent to pay their final due to Old Sparky, the electric chair.
It is the year that John Coffey came to Cold Mountain, convicted of brutally raping and killing two, near nine year old twin girls, an enormous man, a mountain in his own right, with wet, dark eyes and a humble, gentle nature.King’s characterization skills shine here.Percy Wetmore announces his arrival.
My First Stephen King Novel and I'm glad that I started off with this series. Despite its short length it was very intriguing. And though it ended kind of plainly rather than in a cliffhanger, the theme of the series would definitely pique your interest to read the sequels of the same. :) The setting of the story vaguely reminds me of Shawshank Redemption though.
Om alsnog mijn Reading Challenge te halen heb ik besloten De Groene Mijl te lezen. Ik heb de box-set waar 6 losse delen in zitten van elk ongeveer 100 tot 150 bladzijden. Misschien een beetje valsspelen, maar goed. Ik heb vanavond dus het eerste deel gelezen en vind het erg goed. Uiteraard ga ik het vergelijken met de film, maar moet toegeven dat ik het tot nu toe een goeie verfilming vind.
It is a fantastic piece of the master Stephen King because the characters are well developed and the plot is amazing.
Man, I wish I was in to Stephen King when this came out in serialized fashion. I watched the movie back then, but hadn't read the book.In the past 5 to 10 years, I've started reading King.He's good. He's so good.I guess the good part is, you know how people binge watch TV shows now? I can binge-read these. Yeah. I'll be doing that.One thing to add: in book one, there is a great introduction about books and reading in general.
Der erste Teil von sechs von The Green Mile.
Ich LIEBE den Film abgöttisch, habe ihn schon einige Male seit meiner Kindheit gesehen und kann/muss immer noch an den selben Stellen weinen.
Niemals hat mich ein Film so tief ergriffen wie dieser und niemals habe ich eine Hauptfigur so tief in mein Herz geschlossen, wie John Coffey.
Ich liebe John Coffey...
Stephen King hat mit dieser Geschichte nicht nur ein Meisterwerk erschaffen, sondern gleich zwei, denn John Coffey ist mit Sicherheit eines!
Was der Film rüberbringt, ist unglaublich gewesen.
Ich bin gespannt, wie die nächsten Teile werden.
A newsletter I love brought this re-release to my attention, and it warms my heart.
Back in 1996, Stephen King released The Green Mile in 6 installments.
I was too young to read it in '96, but now I can experience the ebook releases as readers originally did, without the ability of skipping ahead.
The parts are being released in two week increments so at least you know exactly when the next part will be released.
Take note, George RR Martin!!!
just kidding.
I have always wanted to read it, so this is the perfect time.
Late to the scene on reading this series. So glad I am finally reading it....In this first section we are introduced to some of the main characters, can't wait to continue with this!
*Cliterary Genius 2017 Reading Challenge, January: Read a Stephen King book.
No one tells a story quite like Mr. King. Sad, heartbreaking and riveting!
I started seeing a lot of King’s books on my feed, and, naturally, I got pulled into the reading mania.
I decided to read only the first part of the Green mile solely because I knew I wouldn’t finish the whole book if started.
I even finished watching the three hour movie (which was good) before I finished this part, that’s how much trouble I have with King’s works.
I’m a bit bummed because movies/series based on his work are amazing and I like them a lot, but books… sadly not for me.
I haven’t read a Stephen King book in ages and it’s all flooding back to me how easy his work is to get through! It’s engulfing!
A great start to a wonderful story.
I am also genuinely surprised by how much I've enjoyed the beginning of this book although I am a fan of the movie.
I guess the reason I am so surprised is because I've always written Stephen King off as "just a storyteller", which you know is a fine title to have, but I have always thought that because of the write off he was unable to write stories of depth and meaning.
I love this book so far and I cannot wait to read more.
I have so many thoughts and feelings that I hope continue to grow as I read more as well as share with my book club members, family, friends, and, of course, the awesome people of Goodreads!
I love this story, but I have never sat down to actually read it through before now.
I am actually pretty surprised at how faithful the movie adaptation is to the story so far.
I recall quite a bit of narration in the movie, but I know they do not go to the depths the books do.
We see this distinctly in his details of Coffey's crime, that he uncovers only years after the story takes place.
The first episode of the green mile was very interesting. We could grasp how the scenery looked like. And the main character, Paul, was extremely loving due to his raw personality. The aspect that bothered me most was the fact that he would constantly talk about his urinal infection (which didn't bring much to the story in my opinion). Otherwise, we could really understand death sentences and how they affected the guards. For those reasons, I ended up giving this book a 3,75.
última lectura del año.
it's awful true story . scary .
This is book 1 of a series and only 100 pages long. I already saw the movie so I knew what was going to happen. It's heartbreaking what happened to the little girls.
His meeting with the warden happen in the warden's office instead of out in the yard when the warden came to talk to Paul about Percy being ordered off the mile.
For example, he's very up front about the idea that John Coffey was the last execution that he and Brutal took part in, as you learn at the very end of the movie.
Also, you learn very early on that John Coffey did walk the green mile, and was executed.
It changed the events order and sometimes the place, but it is essentially a carbon copy of what happened in the movie.
mainly got it cause it was short and if i liked it i would get the rest of the series!!!!
But i'm not ruling out that i hated it or didn't like it, my two star is that i thought it was an alright read but it wasn't for me.
Like i said though i probably have missed something maybe but i just don't think this series is my cup of tea, or my cup of rum really.
Reading this series with a GR book group. We are reading one book a month as it was originally published. I have seen the movie so many times but never read the series. Absolutely perfect Stephen King. Descriptions so vivid and beautifully written. Can't believe I never read this!
The first book of 6 of The Green Mile!! This book only gripped me in the middle. Found beginning and end kind of blah!! Hope it picks up in the next book.
This was a certainly interesting book. Its plot line didn't make much since. I mean it progressed over the book but I think the reason it was written was as a filler story. The way it gives you the information though in a very interesting way. If you make a filler story I think this story is how you make one. So it was a very weird story but a very interesting read.
This first installment is intriguing with its colorful characters and foreboding storyline. King has a knack for plunging his readers into a captivating plot. I imagine I would have been anxious for the next installment if I had read this when it was first published. *Stephen King chose to publish The Green Mile in a Dickensian format in which the six separate paperbacks that comprise the novel were published on a monthly basis beginning in March, 1996.
Everything was gripping; the story, the characterisation, the narrator, the setting, even the eerie cover art.
The electric chair (“Old Sparky”) sounds like a horrible way to go and you can really feel the toll it takes on Paul (the narrator) as a screw.
It was interesting what he said about the real duty of a screw being that of getting the inmates in the dreaded block E to “talk,” almost as if playing the role of a shrink.
Also, on a total side note, I don’t see how Paul’s urinary infection added to the story...idk maybe it will come into play later?
And thanks to a used book sale, I was able to re-purchase the entire original 6 part series, which is now available as one big book.
And on a wim, I just decided to re-read this series again.
And having just finished Part 1 - The Two Dead Girls - the anxiousness to dive into Part 2 is just as real as it was back then, even though I know the story quite well having read the entire book a few times and seen the incredible big screen adaptation by Frank Darabont.
