https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43615.The_Gunslinger
INTRODUCTION : A few things you should know before deciding how helpful this review will be for you.………….………….………….*** I think the Dark Tower series as a whole is a staggering achievement and belongs in any discussion without qualification of the “Greatest Fantasy Series of All Time.” *** There are no spoilers in this review but I have read the series twice all the way through and am doing a third reading as part of a group read this month. Therefore, my review is colored by my knowledge of ho
: A few things you should know before deciding how helpful this review will be for you.………….………….………….*** I think the Dark Tower series as a whole is a staggering achievement and belongs in any discussion without qualification of the “Greatest Fantasy Series of All Time.” *** There are no spoilers in this review but I have read the series twice all the way through and am doing a third reading as part of a group read this month.
That said, this book is an absolute essential read as it introduced the world to Roland Deschain of Gilead, Son of Steven, Gunslinger, Champion of the White, Descendant of the line of Arthur Eld, Bane of the Man in Black and Seeker of the Dark Tower.
I've heard many folks describe this as a nice prologue to the series and that, in a sense, the action and story doesn't become investment worthy until book 2.
That, coupled with the fact that I did become very involved in the final 25% or so of this book has me itching to continue on with Roland because DEAR GOD THAT ENDING!!!
PS- my prim and proper mother (we lovingly refer to her as Nonni) is the one who initially convinced me to read this series and also invest in The Stand because she read both way back in her day.
(B-) 68% | SatisfactoryNotes: A discordant blend of flowery, terse and vulgar prose, difficult to follow and insufficient in explaining new concepts.
He follows the man in black's trail to a little town called Tull, then through more desert, encountering a boy named Jake from our world, and then into the mountains.
The whole Dark Tower series, while on the surface a fantasy-western, is really the story of one man's obsession.
If I had to pick one book that made me want to write, it would be this one.(view spoiler)[The following concerns my speculation regarding the end of the series.
(view spoiler)[The Man in Black tells Roland he must slay the Ageless Stranger in order to reach the top of the Tower.
Overall I trust the positive reviews of "The Black Tower" series.
UNO: non solo il sottoscritto, ma anche il buon Stephen era giovane, molto giovane, quando scrisse l'edizione dell'ultimo cavaliere che lessi eoni fa.
DUE: per ovviare alla non piena maturità letteraria posseduta all'epoca, il buon Stephen ha pensato bene di rivedere ed arricchire il romanzo originale, mandando alle stampe una nuova edizione che per semplicità definisco "più matura".
Difatti nella suddetta prefazione King confessa che quando inizia a scrivere un romanzo, non sa con precisione dove vuole andare a parare.
Mi fido delle recensioni positive della serie "La Torre Nera" nella sua interezza.
Great world building and atmosphere. Definitely different from anything I've read before. It felt very scattered, like King didn't really have any idea what the next paragraph would hold. I'm sure that probably made it a blast to write, but it could've been better if it wasn't quite so disjointed. The dialogue between characters is Star Wars Episode II level bad, unfortunately. I really enjoyed the world building though, which makes me think that the series may be worth continuing.
صدرت بالعربية اخيرا بعنوان الرجل المسلح  Beaware that the movie's following the Ending of the Last Book!!!But in the first book, I suffered the Hard, Dry, Boring read of following a Man in Black you don't know, in a weird hot dry desert in hot August for one reason,To reach a Dark Tower you don't know where..or why..detailed in too much adverbs and ambiguity.That didn't help much to start the following 2 books I already bought...Book one was a true disappointment for me, I never thought it'd be

The ideas of alternate realities and worlds within worlds are very interesting and King may be uniquely qualified, as a literary descendant of Lovecraft, Matheson and Blackwood to pull it off.****2015 amendment******"The man in black fled across the desert and the Gunslinger followed." The iconic opening lines have stayed with me for a couple of years and I find myself thinking about this series, and more specifically, what have I missed?
I think when I first read this I was put off by the purely fantastic setting, but now, maybe three years after I read the first, I am ready to return and give this another try.
All I could think throughout this book was… what the hell am I reading?!This western fantasy has to be the most confusing book I’ve read in a long time.
After hearing everyone rave about this series I have a hard time understanding why.
I don’t believe it would be this popular if it wasn’t for Stephen King’s name on it.
There I said it!I didn’t like the story very much nor the writing.I had been warned that the first book wasn’t as great as the others but I’m currently not in a rush to continue.
That is the line I remembered for years and years that made me think that someday I would revisit THE GUNSLINGER...As a young teenage girl I read THE GUNSLINGER and really didn't like it that much.
I enjoyed them all, but something told me- there was going to be an author that set me apart from the rest of my friends and family- books that were going to be alllllllllll mine.One night I watched the movie Dead Zone.
two of my favorite Goodreads friends Stepheny and Jeff were reading about Roland- THE GUNSLINGER.
Roland knows that Jake has been left as a trap to force him into a choice that will further damn his soul (Which is seeming kind of ragged around the edges anyhow.), but he is committed to catching the man in black so he can find the Dark Tower.After the other books in the series had come out, I would occasionally go back through The Gunslinger and what came later completely changed my mind about this.
Since we know that Roland is trapped in loops where he keeps getting to the tower but going back to the beginning of The Gunslinger, King could present an almost infinite number of versions of the story with variations and say that they’re all different cycles.
This is where the master of horror writes his great work of fantasy based on a combination of The Lord of the Rings and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly."The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed."This simple and beautiful sentence is the opening line, the trademark and even the summary of The Gunslinger.
The man in black flees across the desert, and the gunslinger follows.
In the beginning, the reader has no idea who the man in black is, or even who the gunslinger is.
You don't know why the gunslinger is following the man in black.
Well, I'm trying this thing where I don't DNF books.
Let's face it, I'll probably mess up that resolution though.
Anyway, I know this was a short read but it took me forever to finish it.
I feel the same way about Neil Gaiman, in that I really like the premise and want to read their works but I'm just not feeling their style.Apparently, Idris Elba is supposed to play the lead character (that is, if it doesn't go into production Hell like the other attempts to make this).
He's another terrific actor who can play anything.
#cantstopwontstopYou: Why?B/c after reading all FIFTEEN of the graphic novels, Roland still hadn't made it to the tower.
*bangs head against wall*And after reading THE DARK TOWER (the novel), I discovered that with the addition of a few flashbacks, probably from later installments, all TEN of the original series of graphic novels were based on this first installment of the books.They were pretty much the same story.
But here's the thing: whether it was the additional background or the gut-wrenching illustrations that accompanied Roland's trials and tribulations (of which there are many), he's a much more likable character in the graphic novels.In THE DARK TOWER (the novel) .
My tentative to explain the plot of Gunslinger went kinda like this: a guy, a Gunslinger, travels through a desolated desert to catch a Man in Black, who is a sort of a sorcerer.
The Gunslinger reaches a house in the desert where he meets another guy and his talking crow.
Later, in some sort of a deserted building, he meets a child who is sent from the future/another world by the man in Black.
Kings himself admits that the novel is hard to understand and he tried to re-write some parts to make it more readable.
I get the popularity, obviously I do. And as a massive King fan, I dish out this rating sadly, for I would have loved nothing more than to tell you this is my new favourite book. Alas, it was not my taste- and as is such with all my reviews, my rating must be based on my own personal enjoyment and less on a novel's possible literary merit. So I can't tell you if this book is objectively good, I just know that I did not find it to be so.
The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed.  And our BR gang followed the gunslinger as he tracked the devil, and when he paused to relax and make camp, he told stories of his latest gunfight, his old world, his childhood training and the tests he went through to become a gunslinger... and we just followed him, you know, like these flamingos!King has masterfully created a unique world that integrates fantasy genre with American old west: A mysterious world that poses
I am not making any sense?Have you read this book?For example, My man Roland the gunslinger walks into a township straight out of 19th century, steps into a bar with no electricity nor any modern amenities and asks for a.....
. And the moment I resumed reading the story, those thoughts simply faded away.That, my friend, must be magic!On the top of that, I am not sure what's more intriguing: The world of gunslinger or gunslinger himself!When I finished the book, I found that there was no mention of Crimson King, the primary antagonist of the series!
That being, the first time I read it, I would probably have given it 3-stars, and felt quite generous doing so.
I didn't hate it, but it left me ambivalent for the most part.But this is definitely a book that gets better with time, with re-readings, and with the rest of the series.
The second time I read it, I probably would have rated it 4-stars, and this was after reading Books 2 and 3 and preparing for the release of Book 4.
By this time, I was in love with the series.I read it again just before Books 5-7 came out in fairly quick succession.
The first book of Stephen King's epic fantasy series will not disappoint but may frustrate - stick with me here.The Gunslinger is a rare book for fantasy lovers, it reads like a Clint Eastwood western - perhaps The Good, The Bad and The Ugly, Pale Rider or even Unforgiven.
For those of you that have read King's duet with Peter Straub, "The Talisman", in some ways this new character reflects the story line.
All theories aside the Gunslinger is the introduction to one of the greatest series ever written and a series which explains so many things in Stephen King's stand-alone books.At the start I said The Gunslinger may bring frustration.
The Gunslinger s an unusually slim volume for King, clocking in at a mere 224 pages (the remainder of the series are all long books).The Gunslinger introduces Roland Deschain, the last of the gunslingers, a knightly order in a world that has “moved on”, the population is sparse, food and water are scarce, technology is a lost art, much of the land is inhabitable; even reality seems to be losing cohesiveness as time flows unreliably and sun rises an sunsets can not be depended upon.
استیون کینگ درباره ی این کتاب خویش می‌گویند: این کتاب به نوبه ی خود، داستان کاملی دارد، اما در واقع کامل نیست!
کار با شتاب هرچه تمام‌تر پیش می‌رفت، و باید به اندازه سیصد سال زندگی می‌کردم، تا داستان برج را تکمیل کنم؛ نوشتن این بخش از داستان برج تاریک، با عنوان: «هفت تیرکش»، بیش از دوازده سال طول کشید.
DNF @ 75%Attempt #2 with this went a little better than Attempt #1. During Attempt #1 I made it maybe 6% before giving up. So I'm patting myself on the back here.I just can't get into this. It's simultaneously weird (in a bad way) & boring & yea I'm almost done but I just really don't want to waste anymore time trying to enjoy this. Audio Book Note: George Guidall is an excellent narrator so at least the act of listening wasn't also painful.
At a loss for words when it comes to this book. There is something that feels so new and fresh in terms of genre. Western. Fantasy. Coming-of-age. And possibly sci-fi. All things I love. And having now read this, and knowing it was first published in 1982, I'm pretty sure one of my other favorite writers, the great Cormac McCarthy, drew inspiration from The Gunslinger in both Blood Meridian and The Road. One of the most original stories I've ever read. Cannot wait to continue this series!
I forgive you the confusion, though, because I'm sure that's part of what's supposed to keep us pushing on to the next book in the series.Roland is an interesting enough character, though a somewhat typical hero type - complete loner, no more connections with anyone he loves (friends, family, romance), continuing on a quest because he's sworn out of some kind of duty and he's unrelenting, even at the sake of others' lives and his own, best on his own, etc.
And your descriptions are one of the best things about the book - I can picture everything pretty clearly.Honestly, my biggest complaint is a small one: you use the word "sardonic" way too much!
the second time: so much better, a lot to consider, an enjoyable experience...A Strangely Sparse Narrative, perhaps too much mystery, perhaps too much of a tease and not enough action, perhaps too much to think about, a frustrating lack of detail...A Tarot Card: THE HANGED MAN...Sacrifice...
A Brilliant Passage detailing the life and death of a boy from 1970s NYC...A Pretty Good Passage detailing the strange beginnings of a gunslinger from Gilead, a knight from Inner-Earth...An Enjoyably Creepy Passage detailing the death of a town...A Tarot Card: DEATH...The Ending of a Cycle...
Typical King, Strange, Really Strange. Roland, the last gunslinger, is pursuing "the man in black" across the desert. Why? I'm not really sure. Something to do with a Tower and the fact that "the man in black" is evil.  The writing style is typical Stephen King - strange. In this book, he has the habit of starting a chapter with a sentence like: "The boy found the oracle and it almost destroyed him." Then he'll go off on page after page of flashbacks or other none related storylines until at so
Something to do with a Tower and the fact that "the man in black" is evil.
The writing style is typical Stephen King - strange.
As with most of King's books they can be gruesome in places.
Set in a dystopian world the language and writing style takes a bit to get used to but doesn't distract from the plot.
As with all his books, King creates a very real world that you can practically smell and taste by the time he's done.
Plus when "The Dark Tower" movie comes out next year I'd like have read the books before seeing the movie.
For me, this was a super fun read with terrible pacing.
I found the first third of the book to be a bit of a drag and I just wanted to know more about the world (which we only really get a good glimpse of at the end).
The middle third was my favorite bit, as that's when Jake was introduced and I found him to be the most interesting aspect of the story.
The final third had some answers, but I still found the pacing to be a bit too slow for me.
This novel was about a man's quest for something meaningful to him, and he was so desperate, desperate enough to do unimaginable things.
Some of my favorite movies are of the Western genre, I must read more.The Gunslinger, or Roland Deschain was a man with an obsession problem.
I loved the characters (especially Gunslinger and Jake) and I'm sure that I'll be introduced to more amazing characters throughout the series.
This early on with the series and I already considered the first as my favorite, what more can happen?!(view spoiler)[ I will never forgive you Roland, and you Stephen King, for killing the amazing kid.
Go read this amazing novel.
Enjoyed it! Glad I purchased the revised and expanded edition with the new introduction and forward by KING. (which I wasn't aware of at the time) He really set up the book enticingly. Only 6 more to go. Can't wait to see what happens next! Update: May 15, 2017 - Wow! Dark Tower fans.....Check out the new movie trailer - Excellent - Coming August 4th.
i made a kinda-sorta readalike list for the dark tower series here:https://www.rifflebooks.com/list/236304childe harold, get your gun!
