https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17262159-never-go-back
Who is this imposter?I am a huge Lee Child / Jack Reacher fan, and have been reading these books for years, but it has got to the point where I say that this could very well be my last Jack Reacher purchase.
Maybe you will still enjoy this book if you are a die-hard Reacher fan, if not, I would give it a skip and rather try Lee Child's earlier Jack Reacher novels – they were brilliant.Would I recommend this book?
Same thing with series books.Without introducing spoilers, Lee Child introduced certain plot elements and characterizations in this novel that are quite different from previous novels, elements that could have moved this series into another realm, into something that would cause us to eat another 18 books like pop corn.
And then on the subject of isolation, a continuing theme in this series, we have Lee Child's hero Jack Reacher.Let me preface this by saying Lee Child is no Umberto Eco. This should not be read if what you're looking for is an in-depth, psychological understanding into the human psyche delivered with beautiful literary prose.
I tried my hardest to finish this book before the movie came out, but I was a couple weeks too late.
Actually it could be closer to a month by now!
I kept putting it down as it just didn't hold my interest.
Couldn't get into it.I hope I enjoy the movie more than I did the book.
To me it was the same old Jack Reacher, saving the world and finding a little love along the way, only to move onto the next town and do it all over again.I still enjoy the series and will keep reading it.
Morgan orders Reacher to go to a motel and to then report for duty first thing in the morning.At this point, neither Reacher nor the reader has the slightest idea what in the hell might be going on, but obviously something very unseemly is in the works.
The next morning, Reacher gets up and reports to the unit as ordered, which is going to be very bad news for the people who are screwing with him.It wouldn't be fair to say any more; needless to say the story proceeds as long-time Reacher fans will expect.
I like Reacher, always have, but I might be getting a bit tired of reading the same story.I settled in to read the latest offering and at first it was like meeting up with an old friend, it prompted a smile of anticipation as I turned the first page (albeit electronically these days).
I guess (like all Reacher fans) I’ve worked out that the story will essentially be a simple one with one or two elements left to resolve when we reach the denouement – tying up a few loose ends and making sense of all the bad behaviour, essentially.
Again, it didn’t add anything it just left me thinking ‘why?’I’m seldom surprised by Reacher these days.
You're going to like this, or you're not going to like this. Fifty-fifty.
However, after 17 of these books, I was hoping for a bit of evolvement in Reacher's character or life position.
I love Reacher, but I have to admit that I'm getting just a little bit bored.
And, not having written a review since "A Wanted Man", which came out after the casting of the Reacher movie, I have to say the movie itself wasn't awful.
Casting was horrendous - Tom Cruise is simply not Jack Reacher and I thought Rosamund Pike was just awful - but I thought the movie was fairly well done despite that.
There is such a purity in Child’s formula, I can’t resist it.
A haiku of nouns and verbs, of chase and run, the reading of tea leaves like ripples that point to the track of sharks.
In this one our ex-military policeman hero Reacher breaks the mold by teaming with a twin, the new female chief of his former MP unit.
Child whets us with small glimpses of their faceless enemy, high in Homeland Security, tracking their moves under code names of Romeo and Juliet.
In another year, the hunger for such a hero will likely return, and I will know where to look.
It's so frustrating all this moving around and all this wandering, our hero can't settle down , i think deep down he's afraid of building a life for him and thus becoming an ordinary man .Otherwise i loved this book : ain't no messing around with the MP , Reacher kicked so much ass and i think I'm a little disappointed that Sam didn't turn out to be his daughter after all, it would have changed things drastically for him.I laughed my ass off when Susan told our boy you're so feral ....The coolest thing for me was the breakout of the base: it was cold , logical and well timed, it shows the superiority of the Reacher gene ...
This Jack Reacher novel continues the series of deceptively simple, well conceived and crafted, and satisfying novels. Reacher is a bit more mature at times but always ahead of the story curve. The plot is timely, and the story is driven by ethical dilemmas faced by Reacher as a result of his past.I try to anticipate the ending in as much detail as practical, but Never Go Back was a challenge in this regard. Never Go Back is a worthwhile read, even for a new Reacher fan.
Never Go Back (Reacher #18)Lee Child ☆★☆★I won an advance copy from goodreads first reads.WOW!
Lee Child did a great job with making it a stand alone novel, but sometimes throughout the book I thought it would have been a little more helpful to read the past books and have a back story.
From there it just gets nutsss Reacher is the hunted in this book and from what Ive read that was not his usual position.
Reacher does everything with such cool calmness (thanka to his military training) I know sometimes he had my heart pounding.This book was so much fun for me, fast paced, left me on the edge of my seat!
Once you've fallen in love with Reacher, rejoice in the fact that there are 17 more novels to get absorbed and lost in.This book was a great way to lose more than half of a Saturday.
People always ask the same stupid question at work on Monday mornings: How was your weekend?
[As if anyone really gives a f* how anyone's weekend was.
Why can't people just say Hello when they pass you in the damned hall?] This time, I'll say, "It was great!
I read the new book from Lee Child on Saturday."
This genre does love a cliched character.
That said I did love seeing Reacher having to become a fugitive across America as he was hunted down my multiple agencies for crimes he may or may not have committed.
I am now moving straight on to Personal which is where I wanted to be before my holiday later this week where I’ll be taking the most recent Reacher stories and the short story collection to read while I’m away.
Reading these books one after the other has only made me love this series even more and I am dreading reaching the end and having to wait months for the next one.
Never Go Back (Jack Reacher, #18), Lee Child
How Reacher and the woman major get clear of their situation makes for a good novel in the middle of the pack as Reacher books go.
Lee Child doesn't waste exposition and he doesn't make mistakes about structure.The first two Reacher books were good and got my attention but the series accelerated with the third book, hit its stride with the fifth through eighth books (the splendid run that started with "Echo Burning" and carried through "The Enemy"—the best four books in a row written by anyone anywhere), and peaked with the eleventh and twelfth books: "Bad Luck and Trouble" and "Nothing to Lose." There has never been a Reacher book that wasn't worth my time, not even "A Wanted Man." All of them mesh together in pleasing ways.
If you like the Reacher series, this one will suit you fine.
Fast paced, engrossing, packed with action ...
and even a few tender moments.
the chapters roll forward, with the next one always picking up where the previous one left off.
The story rushes forward and never misses a beat.
Maybe that's why so many readers (including me) report reading a 500 page book in two nights.I would not, however, recommend this as the first Reacher you should read, since there is a history to this man and you will enjoy this book more if you know some of what happened before.
I really enjoyed how Child took the story one way and then the next, introducing characters full of depth and flavour allowing them all to play a growing role in the outcome of the book.For me Jack Reacher books are never about the ending, sure they’re important as one book tends to lead into another, for me however they are about the journey within.
From beginning to end it entertains with a crisp narrative, intelligent dialogue and two storylines running concurrently that somehow, magically, gel together at the end to deliver a fitting climax (even though I felt it was a little rushed in the end) to another Jack Reacher novel.
The books do not have to be read in order, but I was fortunate to read him as he grew.And, then, Tom Cruise got a notion in his head that HE was Jack Reacher, and bought up a bunch of movie rights.
I beg his pardon, because I know of some women who are much more Jack Reacher than Tom Cruise.
Lee Child put Reacher out for movie rights in the very beginning, and no one was biting - until 2005, when Cruise bought the rights to all of the Reacher books.What a betrayal.
This is good Reacher, almost as good as the first few.
If you are new to the series read them in order, but if this one is somehow on your list first it does stand on its own.
He returns to his old HQ near Arlington Cemetery to see the new CO, because she is a woman whose voice he liked on the phone.
Then the Army begins prosecuting him for a murder that happened sixteen years ago.
He breaks them both out of jail and the bulk of the story happens in LA where they investigate the cases and a paternity allegation against Reacher.
- that's all there and much more !In short this book is as Reacheresque as it can be.This is Classic Reacher + in my opinion a lot of make-me-into-a-movie-thrown-in.The part of the description of his physique in Reacher's own words begging to be an introductory shot of Reacher -" "an extreme mesomorph physique, with a six-pack like a cobbled city street, and a chest like a suit of N.F.L. armor, and biceps like basketballs, and subcutaneous fat like a Kleenex tissue."There is a certain element of romance in the "bad guys" - making space for a good villain on screen.
Reacher has hitchhiked his way from South Dakota to the headquarters of his old unit, the 110th MP, to meet the new commanding officer, Major Susan Turner (because he thought she had a nice voice on the phone).
His new CO wants him to go AWOL and Reacher is determined to get to the bottom of things and to help Susan Turner.
But Lee Child keeps things interesting by the ingenious movie serial-like escapers his hero makes.
This book seemed to be a slower read.
It may be because I saw the movie before reading the book.
I continue to find the series surprisingly uneven (OK, there were a couple of legitimate stinkers in there), but my reaction to this one was rather neutral - not one of the best, not one of the worst - but it definitely felt like a book written by an author than knows that his loyal audience will consume whatever he dishes out....Also, this was one of the two books already made into a movie ...
I can't say that knowing some of the story made the book any more or less enjoyable, but I was intrigued by the liberties the movie-makers took and the changes they made (although I can't say I understood why they did so).
Reacher is one of the most interesting characters but over the last few novels, (particularly with the recent stand-alone short e-books) Child has seemed to be grasping.
They even introduce a baby – a sub-plot about Reacher having father a child 14 years before - that is hard to believe, particularly when the 14-year old kid acts like a 35 year old war veteran.
Here’s hoping that in his next book Reacher runs into Susan Silverman, kills her and Spenser and Hawk vow revenge.
And I do worry what’ll happen to him as he gets older, less able to swing those mighty, meaty arms.It’s certainly one way to know if your character is hitting the mark, LOL.Story-wise, it started out ham-handed, heavy with suspicious encounters.
Compared to the timeline as to what happens to Susan in this one...nope, just doesn’t work for me.Lord, I do love the analyses we get when Reacher is planning his moves.
So, just like that...they’re gone.I love how Reacher pulls it together.
Major Helen Sullivan is the lawyer assigned to “defend” Reacher for the Rodriguez charge.
It's a good movie that diverges completely from this great book, pretty early on.Reacher finally makes it to DC to meet the woman he talked with several books ago ("61 Hours") while he was being abused way out west.
In fact, there are far more memorable quotes in this book than almost any other Reacher.The plot is very good, and the climax is satisfying and believable.My notes and some great quotes:SAW - Squad Automatic WeaponFull size image Turner stares at Reacher over a breakfast table:"You’re like something feral...
According to Child, Reacher is 6' 5" and about 250 lbs of hard muscle.
Never Go Back gets 3 Stars.
A better book than his last one but I have to agree with another reviewer-Reacher is starting to get a little boring.
He really doesn't change with the passage of time.
This story revolves around his return to his 110th MP command, now led by another Major...definitely better looking than him but just as tough-minded.
The plot is not as good as some of his other work, involving a conspiracy of individuals at the highest levels of the Pentagon and in Afghanistan.
Reacher is just as tough as ever.
Long on logistical detail and elaborate planning monologues and short on the action required to move the plot along expeditiously can be attributed to Reacher's new adventure. Unfortunately, Lee Child's initially winning formula has become somewhat tedious and "been there, done that". I will of course, continue to purchase and read every new, annually published Reacher book and hope for the best.
May 2015 - Decent September 2016 - BetterJuly 2017 (Dick Hill audio book) -I love the Jack Reacher books!
Normally, I like the Jack Reacher books.
I liked Never Go Back but this one didn't seem to have the entertainment quality as some of the other books that I have read.There are a number of things in the book that just bugged me.
Around 75%-80% through the book the story for me just kind of stalled out.
It more or less stayed that way until the end.The novella High Heat is a story set in the summer 1977 in New York City during a major electrical blackout.
Reacher is 16 years old and on his way to see his brother at West Point.
I recently read that Lee Child and Rick Riordan top the Amazon pre-order list for Fall 2013 and since I tend to pre-order Lee Child's novels, I should say that this latest one is definitely worth getting as soon as possible.Never Go Back continues the story that began with 61 Hours, The Affair, and A Wanted Man. Reacher's last conflict introduced him to the current head of the 110th Special Unit, Major Susan Turner.
I can't say anything else except that if you have enjoyed the earlier Jack Reacher novels, you have to read this latest one.
