https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/828192.Tarzan_s_Quest
This is also the first mention of any of Tarzan’s family members in 9 novels, since Tarzan and the Ant Men. I was beginning to think that Mr. Burroughs was trying to imply that there was some kind of separation or that Tarzan had regressed so much to his pre-civilized days that he never left the jungle anymore.The book starts with Tarzan investigating the mysterious disappearance of young girls in the jungle and Jane returning to Africa by plane.
Jane’s plane coincidentally crashes in the vicinity of Tarzan’s investigations.
This book is perhaps the best since the first two in the series.
Burroughs departs from his usual formula of an ill-fated safari of muddle-headed white folk needing rescue.
Instead Jane (finally!) returns as she accompanies a group of friends and acquaintances back to Africa in search of a rumored fountain of youth.
The plot is quite a lot tighter than many of the previous books in the series causing me to wonder if this book was written by a ghost writer (or that the few books previous were).I very much enjoyed it!
It reads a bit like a movie from the era but I very much enjoyed that aspect as well.
Tarzan's Quest (Tarzan #19) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine 1935) (Fiction). Tarzan's wife Jane becomes involved in a search for a bloodthirsty tribe of warriors who are reputed to have an immortality serum. Tarzan, Nkima, and the Waziri are all drawn in to rescue Jane. My rating; 7/10, finished 1973.
It seems she’s been running around with her society friends in London while her husband’s back in Africa losing his memory and in danger.
Tarzan's adventures were getting too repetitive.While flying back to Africa with a few friends, Jane’s plane is forced down in a storm.
Meanwhile Tarzan, unaware the Jane has returned to Africa and is lost, is searching for the men who have been kidnapping young girls from all over the area, including the young daughter of one of his Waziri.
As least there’s only three groups in this: Jane’s companions, Tarzan & his Waziri and the mysterious white tribe.
The story revolves around a mysterious tribe, the Kuvuru, who have been kidnapping women to be used in secret rejuvenation ceremonies. Tarzan goes after them when they kidnap the daughter of Muviro, the chief of his Waziri. In the meantime there is a plane crash nearby and among the survivors is Tarzan's wife Jane, and they too have been taken captive by the Kuvuru.
Sigh. Can't regain my youth. Not as entertaining as it was when I was 10 years old.
Things take a turn from bad to worse when conflict erupts into murder.Tarzan, meanwhile, gets caught up in some tribal trouble when the Gomangani think he is one of the mysterious white tribe that has been stealing their girls.Eventually, all parties converge, as they always do in typical Edgar Rice Burroughs' style and I hope it won't spoil the book for you, but (view spoiler)[Tarzan returns just in time to save the day (hide spoiler)].I love that Jane is so tough and capable in this book.
If you are inspired to read Tarzan or any other books by Edgar Rice Burroughs because of my reviews, be sure to let me know.
This was one of my favorites of the later Tarzans--with a renewed sparkle of life after the series had generally gone stale. I found it to be one of the more enjoyable books of the series.
To those who are fans of the Tarzan novels(and sadly in this PC age- there seem to be less and less), it is beloved for two reasons- it is the last novel where Jane appears alongside her mate in all his adventures AND it is the book where Tazan, Jane, and Nkima become quite plausibly immortal.
I find this one of the better Tarzan novels because we now see Jane- twenty years on from Tarzan of the Apes #1- no longer a frail frightened girl- but a competent hunter with a good amount of jungle craft of her own.
Not only as already stated is Jane present but she has the lead role in one of the two major plot strands that make up the book in fact her story is stronger than Tarzan's, following as it does an air crash in the jungle with an unlikely assortment of survivors including a murderer and a butler who seems to have escaped from the works of P.G. Wodehouse their trials in the jungle are Burroughs writing at his best.
Tarzan's monkey friend Nikima (there's no Cheeta in the books) also gets probably his best appearance in the series.
Not the worst Tarzan book but definitely not among the best ones either.
I was exited to see Jane back in action after the horrible 'Tarzan and the Ant Men', but that joy short lived.
Nkima was funny but I rally miss the times when Tarzan used to hang with his great apes.
Gosh!, what happened to that Tarzan!!.
And I badly miss Jad-bal-ja , La and Mugambi.
That's why first 5-10 Tarzan books will always be the best.
Tarzan jumping down from a plane using a parashoot looked extremely lame but still, I'll read whatever the Tarzan book gets in my way.
Jane gets to do a lot of adventuring!
In her storyline, she's crash-landed in the jungle with a handful of useless society people, so she's the old hand at jungle survival.
It's a lot of fun to take Jane (the prototypical "helpless civilized person") and see her going barefoot and rolling her eyes at people who are afraid of snakes.The villains are a tribe of savages who are kidnapping the women of the local tribes to make immortality pills.
And the usual weird racial politics of the Tarzan mythos are somewhat ameliorated by having the evil savage tribe be white people.
In this Tarzan story we spend a lot of time with Jane, who has joined with a few other english people in her journey from England to Africa. Things get interesting when their plane goes down in a storm. Meanwhile, Tarzan sets forth to rescue the daughter of one of his Waziri warriors. Jane and one of her companions are taken by the same tribe which has taken the Waziri girl, and this tribe is White!
Tarzan investigates the series of disappearances of girls and young women in the jungle, and, together with the small monkey Nkima, searches for the Kavuru tribe he believes is responsible. Meanwhile, returning to Africa from Europe, Jane is involved in a jungle planecrash and must lead the survivors to civilisation. Her mission is complicated by the fact that one of the group is a murderer, and that their journey takes them through Kavuru country.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
was great, THe Kavaru and their leader the Kavandavanda- the plane crash, the search for the fountain of youth, the missing women the kavaru steal for their formula of the ft of youth, all the jungle adventures and Nkima the monkey in his ever minded absent minded helping Tarzan- Janes survival skills and TaRZANS eternal quest to help his fellow man- they are just such great books!!
The hero of this novel is Nkima, the monkey. Nkima forgets, and gets distracted, and is after all only a monkey. Yet, despite himself, he manages to allow Tarzan to save the day. There is a bit of Nkima in all of us.
The later Tarzan novels had a bad rep for some reason, but ERB's prose is leaner and the stories move faster. It's good fun. This novel seems to have inspired Margot Robbie's portrayal of Jane in the recent movie. The best chapters are told from Nkima the monkey's point of view.
I kind of wish ERB would have been writing new standalones or a new series instead of dragging on with Tarzan, but I know he was making money. The story isn't bad. How could it be with ERB's narrative drive.
Another great Tarzan adventure. This one finds the cast looking for the elixir of youth in Africa, of course.
read some time in 1985
I read this at the Douglas Lodge on Lake Itasca Minnesota August 11, 2009. Jane is one of the main characters of the book, so this is different. I liked it a lot. I love Tarzan books.
One of the better books in the Tarzan series. Great adventure story and Jane is a featured character.
Tarzan Book 19
