https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55453.Labyrinth
Jareth thought she looked like a dryad and couldn’t wait for the opportunity to tell her so.The man calling himself the Goblin King could have sprung from a Walter Crane or Edmund Dulac illustration.
There's no movement or notable body language in the written scene, while the filmed one is dynamic--Jareth intimidates Hoggle, then leans on the wall to look down at Sarah and turns "How are you enjoying my Labyrinth?" into a pickup line.
Penned by the TUMBLR writer Glamdamnit, here is a detailed guess about what happened to the Goblin King that made him want to steal a little girl.Once upon a time, long ago there was a sorcerer named Jareth.He fell in love with a human girl named Sarah, and she with him.But Sarah's father and step-mother would not allow them to marry.For then they would lose the servant and nanny for their beloved new baby.In a fit of rage, Jareth kidnapped the infant and spirited it away to the fairy realm.In this other world, Jareth turned the spoiled baby into a goblin in retribution.
I haven't read any of his other books but, really, that writing doesn't make me want to, either.ACH Smith on the other hand wrote an amazing novelization that's so rich in language that it would have fared just fine had the movie never existed.
At the end of the movie, Sarah calls all her Labyrinth friends back to her and they come and they have a grand old time.
In the book, one of the characters tells her, "Sometimes to need is to let go." You can't walk around with that security blanket for the rest of your life, right?
There were some slight changes from the movie and I really enjoyed them.
I specifically enjoyed the different scene through the riddle doors.
The Labyrinth is my all time favorite movie and this novelization as well as the drawings and Jim Henson's journal as he plotted out the movie were amazing.
There's something about seeing behind the veil of your favorite movie that is scary because things could go terribly wrong.
There was nothing to worry about here as you saw into Brian Froud's mind and Jim Henson's mind.
This is a fantastic bind up for any Labyrinth lover and a welcome addition to my bookshelf.
RESEÑA COMPLETA, COMPARATIVA DE LIBRO Y PELI POR ACÁ :D Muy entretenido, por momentos me daba sensaciones similares a Alicia en el País de las Maravillas.Esta noche miro la peli, a ver qué tal.
It's perfectly fine to like problematic things, as long as you realise they are problematic, and this is the case.See, Jareth is my favourite male character but I wouldn't date him - I know better than that. His behaviour was sketchy to say the least, there is the bright point, however, of Sarah realising this and not letting herself fall for him or any of his tricks (oops! spoilers! for anyone who hasn't watched Labyrinth, but if you haven't stop whatever you're doing and go watch it and read
Sarah's tale is one of growth, she leaves childhood behind and accepts she must become a young lady (though it's mentioned that childish things have a place in grown up life, as well).
And Jareth just shows up all sparkly and fabulous, likeAnd tells her she has to beat his labyrinth if she wants her baby brother back.
This isn't healthy.And Sarah was totally right when she told him: And left.So YAY for girl power and ladies saying no and meaning NO!But even realising all this I still go...
Suddenly I can read a scene and I can see the film playing out in my head.
I read another and yep there that one is too - its as if the book is acting as a memory jog for the film and now suddenly I have them working in tandem.
I am sure we have read something and you hear that voice in your head repeating the dialogue - well here for me with this book I have the full Jim Henson Creature shop playing out for me.
Di solito i libri adattamento di film sono a dir poco pessimi, questo di Labyrinth fortunatamente è abbastanza decente (adoro talmente il film che non mi va di fargli troppo le pulci...) e le bellissime illustrazioni inedite del grande Brian Froud e le note di produzione di Jim Henson (autore del film ed inventore dell'indimenticabile Muppet Show) ne fanno un'edizione da collezione imperdibile per gli appassionati.
I think I got this simply to satisfy my obsession with the movie and with David Bowie as Jareth. I will admit that the book has one line at the end that isn't in the movie and woudl have been much better in the movie. It also expounds on Jareth more. Not bad for a novelization.
"Through dangers untold and hardships unnumbered, I have fought my way here to the castle beyond the Goblin City, to take back the child that you have stolen." Sarah is an imaginative girl with hopes of becoming an actress like her mother. She feels her stepmother constantly interferes with her goals – especially when she is made to look after her younger stepbrother, Toby. Life is not fair and Sarah knows to complain about it; one night she decides to give into her frustration and to give her
I would say I love both equally much but they have their differences – or should I call them advantages?What I loved in the movie, and what does not come across as well in the book, is that the whole Labyrinth was based on Sarah’s life.
To me, David Bowie represents the Goblin King and the whole fantastic movie.
Like many, I am someone who would have loved to have seen Sarah and Jareth together.
For this specific scene, the novel has the tension between Sarah and Jareth going for it and the movie the beautiful costumes and music.
Know what? This wasn't great. But know what else? I don't care, because  LABYRINTH. •I adore Labyrinth•I bought this because I heard that it elaborated the story behind Sarah's mom. Umm... not really. Just a little bit. With that elaboration, I thought the ending would address that 'mommy issue' again, maybe tie up loose ends, but no. Oh well. I also bought this, knowing there was a lot of extras at the end. Yes, there was several pages from Jim Henson's notebook, but I didn't find them interest
But know what else?
But know what else?
•I adore Labyrinth•I bought this because I heard that it elaborated the story behind Sarah's mom.
I also bought this, knowing there was a lot of extras at the end.
Yes, there was several pages from Jim Henson's notebook, but I didn't find them interesting at all.
Oh, how I tried to watch and love that movie.
And if the movie would have followed the ideas in Jim Henson's notebook, I know Labyrinth wouldn't have been the movie that I love.
(It wasn't bad, probably a 3 star, for realsies.) ;-)
It's sad, but the first time I saw  The Labyrinth , I was sixteen.
I was the only one who feel in love.
It's my second favorite (the first being  The Goonies ) movie of all time - and then I found out about this book.
Now, I don't own this book; I've looked and looked and looked and nothing.
So, I did what any other King Jareth obsessed fan would do:I went to the internet, using my wonderful laptop, Ace (It's an  Acer.
Ace,  Acer , get it?
And feel in love all over again (The ballroom scene.
This novel that is based upon the film 'Labyrinth' starring David Bowie was phenomenal.
'Labyrinth' has been one of my favourite films for years and it was only in the last 6 months or so that I have searched for a copy of this book.
But this book was the completely opposite - the description of the characters and the world itself was beautiful, absolutely beautiful.
The novel is about a teenage girl, Sarah, whom wished that her baby brother, Toby, would be taken away by the Goblin King.
I've been Labyrinth obsessed since I was a little kid, David Bowie obsessed even longer, and a Jim Henson obsessed since birth, basically.
I mean, who wouldn't want to spend their immortality with this guy?[image error]YES, SIGN ME UP!!Anyway, I had no way to shell out up to $100 when this book was being sold on Amazon 10 to 15 years ago.
Last year, Dragon Con celebrated the film's 30th anniversary and had multiple panels about Jim Henson and the movie, so I was thrilled to find this book in the publisher's booth for a more reasonable price.
I mean, guuurl.Now I wish the publishers would release a red copy like the one Sarah has in the movie.
The person who recommended it promised a proper novel, not just a written description of what happened in the movie.It was.I loved the film, which made this book enjoyable, the archived artwork was also a bonus.
clearly someone's personal notes which perhaps interesting one would need to be Henderson himself to fully understand what he was saying.In essence though this book adds little to the film, aside from cutting out the songs and the surrealist scenes working quite well on page, I essentially felt like I was reading a summary of the movie.
Cuando Sarah nota que uno de sus peluche favorito ha desaparecido de su alcoba y descubre que lo tiene el niño en su habitación, se pone furiosa y va a rescatarlo.
Y para colmo, el atractivo e hipnotizante rey de los goblins, Jareth está tratando que desista de ir al laberinto a buscar al niño con sus espectaculares encantos.
Sarah se arrepiente y deberá atravesará el laberinto a pesar de los peligros, y amigos como Ludo, Hoggle y Sir Didymus la ayudarán a llegar hasta su hermanito.
This book is basically like the movie, except we get to read about the thoughts of the characters from the film. Because of this book, I finally understood what the junk scene in the film meant.  It was junk like everything else there, the litter of a time of her life that she now passionately wanted to leave behind. She knew what the gray despair had been. This room was a prison, and she was her own jailer. And so she had the key to release herself, to go and do the thing that mattered.  Labyri
This book is basically like the movie, except we get to read about the thoughts of the characters from the film.
I guess THIS explains the masquerade ball.
One thing I didn't get from the movie is that Jareth wanted Sarah to look for him (and she doesn't know why).
In the movie, I thought Sarah was looking for Jareth because she was in unfamiliar territory (ADULT WORLD) and then she saw him.Her dizziness ceased when she went spinning around the ballroom in Jareth’s arms.
Every time I read this book, I couldn't help but wait for the scenes between Jareth and Sarah.
All in all, this book helped me understand and appreciate the movie (even more).
Es una novela publicada muchos años más tarde de la película y que realmente no aporta nada nuevo, salvo el origen de la madre de Sarah y por qué sus padres están separados y ella es tan fan de la obra de Dentro del laberinto, porque si, además del título referirse al laberinto que lleva al castillo de Jareth, rey de los goblins, se refiere a la obra que la madre de Sarah representó en su trabajo y a la cual Sarah es adicta.Como personajes el libro no nos añade ninguno nuevo, salvo a la madre.
When I read E.T., I realized novelizations of movies can be good, too.
In the best case scenario they can deepen the world and make you understand the characters a bit better (plus, reading E.T. meant I didn't have to suffer through the sentimental style of Spielberg).Labyrinth, while not being bad, wasn't that special either.
I think it just comes down to the world working better in visual form and with the songs.
A nice read overall, but I'd rather watch the movie for the umpteenth time.
Maybe this would work better if you haven't seen the movie first?
It was my first introduction to an actual fantasy story, even before LotR and Harry Potter.
I like how A.C.H. Smith went the extra mile and included dialogue in scenes where it's David Bowie singing(for those who don't know, David Bowie is in the movie.
We even learn a little bit more about Sarah's mother, where the movie didn't touch on.If you're a fan of the movie and want another way of having the story be told to you, pick this book up.
How Smith writes and describes made me feel like I was watching the movie again.
Or if you're a fan of old school fantasy.
There were additional scenes and dialogue changes, and while I liked some of them -more info about Sarah's mother, passages from Jareth's perspective- others were just bad.
I liked that the ending was a little sadder, that party-dance scene always felt kind of strange to me as a kid.
The writing style felt stilted and choppy at times, but it was easy enough to follow overall.I feel like a huge chunk of Labyrinth's charm is in the music and the visuals, so maybe that's why this book was just 'okay'.
Hands down the best novelization of a movie I've ever read! You can just see the movie playing out in your head while your reading. Everything is so exact while adding a new layer to the excitement of the book. Loved it!!!
This was not so bad an adaptation of the movie Labyrinth.I was woven even deeper into the fabric of the story with descriptive language throughout.
One of the things that is hard to pull off in a movie is to fully describe what runs through the main character's thoughts, and this book is able to do just that.
In this special edition, I was able to take a peek at some of the conceptual art for the goblins that were to be designed for the movie itself, and there was also forty pages of Jim Henson's own filmmaking journal for me to enjoy.
2.75 starsI'm a huge fan of the movie and think I may have gone in with my expectations too high.Sarah is 15, but reads a lot younger.
Still loved Ludo!!We follow Sarah through the Labyrinth as we do in the movie.
For me, the magic is the movie.
I enjoyed the concept art and notes Henson made when thinking the movie out, but the author didn't capture the magic for me.
I also missed the songs.
What songs?
The songs from the movie.
What movie?The movie of Labyrinth.
Labyrinth?Ahh, Labyrinth.I missed the songs.
It's an excellent book, with only a couple of changes in the film.
I felt reading the book explained a lot more about Sarah's relationships and why she is who she is.Even when I was young, I always identified with Sarah, but without the evil stepmother and screaming baby brother obviously.
The book gives a detailed description of her room, down to the way her books are laid out (practically the same way as mine, I was quite shocked to discover), to how everything has its place.There are a couple of minor differences that aren't instantly noticeable without a re-watch of the film.
This book should have been republished with each major "anniversary" the film had, like there are new DVD/Bluray releases every 5-10 years.
First thing was something that I thought personally and I don’t know if anyone else thought it or not but here, there were parts that seemed to me to be copied straight from movie to book with no depth added in almost like he was just describing what he saw on the screen if you get what I mean.
A beautifully written book based on a wonderful movie and if I ever become rich it is the first thing I’m buying with my money.
Story-wise this is just a straight up retelling of the screenplay, though.
Nothing fancy has been added to the story, though there are clearly some deleted scenes.
Also, an element that was either deleted from the film or just didn't come across, but Sarah's mother left her and her father to be with her Broadway co-star.
It's further implied in the book that Sarah has a bit of a crush on her mother's sexy new lover, and that Jareth is essentially a version of him.
Very fun for Labyrinth lovers, and I look forward to reading the The Dark Crystal and The Storyteller!
This book clearly shows the reason why I usually don't read (direct) novelizations - while reading them I just feel as if I'm reading a more fleshed-out version of the script of the movie which I find dissatisfying.
I liked Labyrinth a lot when I first saw it some years ago and I read the book right after seeing the movie.
This probably makes the book a good novelization but an average literary piece.
I'd recommend it for fans of Labyrinth as it is a different experience than watching the movie, but otherwise it might be wise to just watch the film instead.
"Nothing? Nothing! Nothing.. Tra la la?!"To say I love Labyrinth is a massive understatement.. I have a quote from the film as a tattoo!! So naturally I had to have the book so I could fall in love with it all over again. T didn't disappoint. It was a nice companion to the film, with all the familiar scenes and some extra insight into Jareth and Sarah. And I dare anyone to read it without doing the voices and singing the songs in your head!
Adding this to a little list I like to call 'the Hunt'. I happen to live within reach of several second hand bookshops, and can easily find more in the next town over. And the next one. And the next one.SALLY FORTH!
