https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50376.Jane_Austen
I purchased and first read this book in Bath in 1999, after visiting Chawton (where Austen lived in the latter part of her life and wrote her last three novels) and Salisbury (where she died and was buried).
Although I have re-read Austen's novels in the intervening years, I have not looked at the biography again.
Biographical material concerning Jane Austen is not extensive (her relatives having destroyed most of her letters after her death), and Tomalin possibly writes a little too much about neighbours and acquaintances about whom more is known.
Recommended to any reader who loves Austen's novels and wants to know more about the writer.
Conventional wisdom has it that Claire Tomalin’s biography of Jane Austen is the best out there.
She paints a vivid portrait of life in the Austen household, and throughout the book her strength lies in taking the reader into Austen’s quotidian experience.
Her account of Austen’s childhood experiences was the liveliest, but also the most speculative, section and I did feel there was a tendency (all too common among biographers) to psychologize based on insufficient data.Where the book felt thin to me was in the area of situating Austen’s work in her literary and cultural context.
the information was interesting and painted quite the picture of life during austen's time but it really took a lot of tangents.
it's not so much austen's life as it is her family's life (though of course jane features more).
i am going to get a copy of Jane Austen: A Life by Carol Shields and hope it to be a better biography.i felt, too, that tomalin inserted herself too often and made suppositions and statements that were based on imaginings...not fact.
it's very clear tomalin is a huge austen fan...but that love or bias seemed to seep into this text.
I'm sure my fellow voters-to-be wondered about the weird lady, chuckling to herself as she read some book - I was reading some sarcastically witty comments written by Jane herself to her sister about a neighbor.
By the time I got to the chapter on her death, I had become so much a part of the world Tomalin had drawn that I felt a deep sense of loss at reading the letter from Cassandra (Jane's sister) to her brother telling him about Jane's death.
- often at the Bottom of the Pile,(read "UNREAD"!); seldom at the Top,(read "likely NevER!!")What Jane wrote she displayed to the Family - the Two Supportive Parents; the Five Big Brothers: and the elder Sister, Cassandra, with only three years in between, may have helped her out.
It was she, in 1793, who was to illustrate cleverly one of the Final Productions of 18 year old Jane's Juvenilia, "The History of England," 'by a partial, prejudiced & ignorant Historian', a gleeful parody of Oliver Goldsmith's work of 1771.But the presses had begun rolling, on a small but not untalented scale, when Jane was 12 in 1787 and "ready" to reveal a solid humour.
Truth be told, there is not enough known about Jane Austen‘s life for a 400+ page biography, and a third or more of the text focuses on her family, relatives, and neighbors.
So, why read this biography instead of the memoirs written by family members and her letters, since most of the information available comes from those sources?
Actually it turns out that to better understand Ms Austen and her social milieu, it’s very helpful to have a thorough introduction to her family, relatives and neighbors.
Felt this didn't really say much about Jane Austen?
There were so many different people I just found it impossible to tell the difference between everyone to the point where I just lost interest, and as there was barely anything about Jane herself, this meant I struggled quite a bit through this.
and while I do think they're important, as people don't exist singularly, there is just too much focus on everything BUT the subject.
Coming away from this, I feel I don't know a great deal much more about Jane Austen than I already did, which is a shame.
Слишком много Остинов для одной книги и слишком мало самой Джейн. Главный роман — про свою жизнь, Дж.О. Так и не написала. Но книга все же любопытная: черпать вдохновение и сюжеты романистке было откуда - многочисленные соседи и родственники жили весьма нескучно.
Her family wrote down some biographical information after her death, but by their account Austen was a quiet, rather prim middle aged woman, a maiden aunt who lived to be useful to her family, who's live as they claimed "Of events her life was singlerly barren".
Casting aside the image presented by the Austen family Tomalin manages to weave together whatever she could glean from those of Austen's letters to survive the purging, and the various letters, diaries and other papers which her siblings and extended family left behind to create a picture of Jane Austen the person.
Tomalin must delve archives as a detective, stretch and scrutinize the old paper, and compensate for gaps in the lone life with a narrative of the familial-social surround in which the maturing writer is presumed--and occasionally observed--to lurk and flash.
In the documentary gaps, Austen--ripening genius--reads as appropriately mysterious.
Solitude, freedom, and reading are quick to develop emotions in them unknown to our light-minded beauties.
In the capital cities women receive a better education, perhaps, but the ways of society iron out their character and render their minds as indistinguishable as their hats.
Generally regarded as one of the best biographies, it focuses heavily on Jane’s family, connections, and time period. Not as quick and easy a read as the Penguin biography, but lots of well-written information without too much dubious psycho-analyzing (always a danger because although we have many of Jane’s letters, we don’t have them all, nor do we have opportunity for a Q&A session, nor are our social/family/child-rearing views and expectations necessarily the same as hers). Great details on Jane’s extended family, who were quite a collection of characters.
Brava to the biographer--no doubt this was a challenging account to put together, especially in light of so many of Jane Austen's letters being destroyed. As an Austen fan, I could have read on for a few more chapters. What was it like for her to have to wait so long to see her novels published (let alone the ones that weren't published until after she died)? Like author J.E. Keels says, you really have to believe in your work.
I'm too picky by half, it would seem, when it comes to Austen. I had read this about 4 months ago, and it so impressed me that it took 4 months to comment on it. (!?) Make what you will of that. Tomalin is not the greatest of story tellers, and when you're writing "A Life" of someone, for goodness sake, make sure you have a few interesting stories to tell. How can you be boring when you write of Jane Austen? Somehow, Tomalin has managed that, her scholarly efforts notwithstanding.
A must-read for any Jane Austen fan.
Interesting and well written. I always enjoy Tomalin.
She treats Jane Austen's life like a mystery. Digs for evidence where others have not looked. Great read. I use it as a reference book now.
My outstanding impression of the book is how amazingly detailed it is given the fact that few records of her life have survived.Claire Tomalin admits that it was not an easy story to investigate, but explained that Jane Austen wrote no autobiographical notes and if she kept any diaries they did not survive her.
However, 160 letters remain and there is a biographical note of just a few pages written by her brother, Henry after her death.
A thoroughly detailed and thoughtful biography of the insurgent novelist.Book Review: Jane Austen: A Life is excellent, an intelligent and deep biography worthy of its subject.
This book would be far shorter if it relied only on the known facts of Jane Austen's life.
There's also a sad but saintly scene of Jane using three chairs and a pillow as her "sofa." Well and clearly written, Jane Austen: A Life was slow going at times only because of the immensity of the factual background presented.
Although Tomalin is of the opinion that Austen rarely wrote autobiography, Janeites will find many echoes from her life in her novels, to the enrichment of both.
A brilliant account of the human being behind the name, this book seems at times written by Jane herself.
After such a read and such an experience, one can only hope to do justice in relating facts, details, and knowledge obtained, to Jane Austen as a person, literary genius ahead of her time, and to the places she has touched by simply existing.Five stars do not even begin to portray the real value of this book but these, together with a warm recommendation of it to all acquaintances and friends, will hopefully make some small difference in getting it the appreciation it deserves.
For my full review: http://girlwithherheadinabook.co.uk/2...Claire Tomalin has rather cornered the market recently when it comes to literary biography but this is actually the first one of hers that I have ever sat down to read – it turns out that I should have got to it sooner – the woman behind all of the Austen mania is constructed here far more vividly than I have ever seen her before.
This is not to denigrate previous biographies but merely to applaud what Tomalin has achieved, to shine a light on an author who has always managed to hide behind the mania, who has remained private, unknowable.
Okay, I already knew that Jane Austen was going to die at the end of this book, but I still cried.
I loved this story of her life.Sometime about 30 years ago when I was first enthralled with Jane Austen, I read a biography of her life.
Finally, during a recent re-read, I realized that the Jane Austen who wrote these books COULD NOT be the same Jane Austen I was remembering from that long-ago biography.
So I read this one, and I'm so glad I did.Jane Austen was not the prim missish maiden aunt that the early biography (wish I could remember which it was!) depicts.
My biography kick continued with this one about Jane Austen, by the same author of the Charles Dickens biography that was also excellent.Thank goodness our greats of several hundred years ago didn't have email, or we would not have had the copious letters and diaries that were usually kept by people who had education.
This is how we know so much about Austen's life, her travels, her feelings, and her astute observations.
This is the best biography of Austen that I've read, to date.
All the facts are presented clearly, with the usual amount of speculation and guesswork, given that we know so very little.
I found that the majority of the speculation was based in reality and, most importantly, it was based on research of the period in question.
Austen comes alive in this book, as does most of the family.
More time is discussing the information that we do have, than lamenting the lost letters,etc.I thoroughly recommend this to anyone interested in Austen or her work.
Tomalin has produced a very readable biography of Jane Austen. While the source material Tomalin has to work with is limited—her sister Cassandra unfortunately destroyed many of Jane's letters after her death—she is a sensitive interpreter of what does survive. She is good at correcting the traditional image of Austen as a somewhat prim, retiring, romantic old maid, replacing that with the kind of woman we see reflected in her surviving letters: independent, self-assured, extroverted, and flawed.
Lovely biography of Jane Austen. Claire Tomalin obviously wanted to find the "real" Jane Austen from the fragmented amount of biographical material. If only Jane Austen's family had not destroyed so many of her letters, we would know better.
interesting, well written, a must read for all those who love Jane Austen.Claire Tomalin, a renown biographer, one above all her biography of Charles Dickens is wonderful, takes on the task of writing Jane Austen's story.
The task is tantamount because information about the beloved author are scarce.
Her letters were almost all burned by her siblings, so what is left is some information from other members of her family.
Based on that, Tomalin starts her research, which also takes her to France where Jane had relatives living there.
The result is this brilliant book, dense with facts and family history but also the history of the period Jane lived.
Since reading Clare Harman’s remarkable A Fiery Heart about Charlotte Bronte, I decided another authoress I would like to read about before reading the actual work of was Jane Austen.
Admittedly the life of Jane Austen does not lend itself to as romantic a story as the Brontes in their haunting Haworth does.
There was not nearly as much focus on her actual work as I would have liked.
All the same, I am much more interested in reading Austen’s work now.
Now I would indeed like to read all of them ...
This was recommended to me by the tour guide for a tour I'm going to be taking soon, and I am so happy they did. This is a wonderful look at what Jane Austen's daily life might have looked like. Obviously the author touches upon the books, and their impact but the story largely focuses on Austen and her family and friends, and what their lives were like in the 1700/1800 English countryside. It often times felt like an Austen novel itself with the style of writing, and the anecdotes that were chosen to be highlighted.
I love Jane Austen, she's one of my favorite authors; however...this book/biographer had so much that they wanted to say about her life (and every single person who came in contact with her) that it was just boring. The biographer literally spent about 75% of a book that is supposedly about Jane Austen about others (not even her family, there was a whole chapter dedicated to the French and the history of what was going on)I didn't enjoy this one bit. Sad. Guess I'll have to go get into a different better book now.
Very interesting, especially as so little of Jane Austen`s personal writings(letters etc.) remain.
The author brings the period and Jane`s extended family to life.
The lot of women in England at that time was wretched, if they didn`t make a good marriage.
Jane`s attitude was way ahead of her time.
Rather a slow read because there were so many characters and interesting relations.
The attitude to the French Revolution and the subsequent Napoleonic Wars seemed to be rather off hand, but of course they didn`t have such easy access to news as we do now!
