https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141565.This_Is_Your_Brain_on_Music
As I read this book, I kept wishing I was watching a PBS show version of it instead, where I could HEAR the music Mr. Levitin was referencing, and see visuals of the brain showing what parts are being affected by music, and how they all link up.
Instead of having to tell us in excruciating detail what an octave is, he could demonstrate on an instrument, and we could hear it for ourselves.
And yet, instead of telling us how all these brain interactions manifest in our minds, he focuses on details about the cerebellum and the amygdala.

Not much content is musicianship related.
Middle third is a bore.What I learned:- There is no sound in space(there are no molecules to vibrate)- Virtuosity comes from hours of practice (talent and absolute pitch play a small role)- Learning to play an instrument after 20 is hard (the brain is done developing)- Percussion is a primitive musical trait (affirming my suspician drummers are apes)- People like music they can understand (an area between too elementary and too difficult)- Children who learn to play instruments have increased cognitive understanding and focus - Music and performance play a role in evolution (used to attract a mate)- Music is a stimulant and natural high (it opens neural pathways that trigger throughout the brain from the cerebral cortext to the frontal lobes)- Different handicaps react differently to music(Down syndrome do not like music.
This list is already too long.
As a musician, the first half was like retaking Music 101, but I felt this was a book I need to read, so I plowed on.
I am looking for answers to the questions: "Why, when I near any musical interval, my brain automatically zips through all the tunes I know which start with that interval, and I start humming one of them?" and "Why the hell have I had '76 Trombones' on my mind for the last 6 weeks?" Is this what happens when musicians age?
I feel like I'm nearing the answers, and its getting quite interesting.
From the reviews I've seen here, the material seems to have passed over most people's heads (by being too rough, or the phrase you'll come across a few times, "I didn't feel like I walked away exclaiming 'eureka!'"...
It covers various interesting topics, and I speculate the reason people walk away feeling not so enlightened is because after chapter 8+, chapters 1-5 are a distant memory.
I really despise myself for giving what should be an awesome book only 2 stars.
I'm sure Oliver Sacks book re: dysfunctional psychological reactions/processing of music is going to be a more fun and interesting read, and let's face it, I am reading for fun, this is not a textbook for my evening class at The School of Rock.
When I get to invite 4 people from history to a dinner party, I'll not invite Daniel Levitin; all the other guests will try to avoid him all night as he does go on and on (much like this review).
This is one of those books that I think is a valuable read but not necessarily an enjoyable one..at least for the general reader.
Coupled with Oliver Sacks collection "The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat" we begin to unlock the mysterious properties of music to help us communicate/learn even when burdened with serious psychological disorders.
It seems evident to me after reading both books that there is still much to be learned about the human brain, but music has a unique power to shape cultures and our minds in a way that other art forms cannot.
Many of Levithans chapters are worth reading by themselves.
But the brain stuff I don’t believe helps anyone appreciate why music is so special to our human culture or is so pleasurable.For this, he goes out of his field to summarize arguments against the notion that music is sort of an accident of evolution of cognitive skills with clear adaptive value.
Levitin assembles evidence for music prevalence in all current and past human cultures, its importance for social cohesion and courtship, and lands on the evolutionary psychology perspective that its adaptive value relates to sexual selection (i.e. musical skills conveyed reproductive advantages through mate selection).
Despite loving singing, and having been good enough to perform and not have people run away, I know very little about music.
(Although unlike most people, I have a bad sense of timing, apparently: I routinely sing slower than the original version of anything I’m performing.
Most people apparently preserve the timing of the version they know best.
But the neuroscience behind music is fascinating, and Levitin explains it well.
There are a few sections which drag as he spends too long explaining things, but on the other hand he references a wide selection of music, applying what he’s talking about to songs people often know.
Two random facts about me:1) I love music2) I love cognitive and neuroscienceSo I was thrilled about this book.
It took a while to finish because every time I started listening to the book about music I got a massive urge to listen to some.
So I had to scratch that itch, and that kept me distracted from reading Brain on Music in big chunks.It took a lot of set-up and some of the things described in this book I already knew, so they weren't as exciting, hence the 4 stars.
What was most fascinating about the book was the ease at which concepts I'd struggled with years ago were made crisp, clear, and, well, obvious, as they should have been back then.
Introductory concepts of music were never made as clear to me than from this.
I don't think I could have found a fuller survey of the subject, tying it to subjects I'm interested in (math, cognition) if I'd looked, and there it was, for free.Surely an expert or someone who'd learned more of music or neuroscience would find it basic, but I'd recommend it for a good catchup on the subject and how our understanding of it is changing.
I'm pretty disappointed, but then I had really high expectations for this book which it failed to meet (I should know by now never to read the back-cover hype, let alone the 4 pages of promotional blurbs that preceded the table of contents).But before confessing my own failings here, let me lay a little blame at the author's feet.
Listening to music caused a cascade of brain regions to become activated in a particular order: first, auditory cortex for initial processing of the components of the sound.
Then the frontal regions, such as BA44 and BA47, that we had previously identified as being involved in processing musical structure and expectations.
A Publishers Weekly review says "This is likely the only book whose jacket sports blurbs from both Oliver Sacks and Stevie Wonder." In the past few days he has enlightened me to myriad fascinating aspects of my relationship to music, both as a musician and as a human being.My favorite among these revelations thus far is the following passage, which validates my feeling that signing and singing aren't so different, despite their apparent disparity: "Most astonishing was that the left-hemisphere regions that we found were active in tracking musical structure were the very same ones that are active when deaf people are communicating by sign language.
We were now looking at a region that responded to sight--to the visual organization of words conveyed through American Sign Language.
Levitin then dives into explaining such noteworthy topics as why we get songs stuck in our heads, why certain songs are equated with memories throughout our lives, and how our brain tends to know the next couple notes in a song even if we've never heard it before.
All of these topics are augmented with thorough research and scientific explanations; yet, in a lamen's terms.You don't have to be a musician to be interested in this read, you merely have to an inquiring person.
One thing is for certain: you will never look at music the same way again.
Have you ever wondered how you can listen to an orchestra and pick out the melody, or pick out the violins from the whole ensemble, or pick out the first violin from the violin section, or separate the orchestra from the car alarm outside?
Beginning with the basics of how musicians and scientists define music, it moves on to discuss how our brain and mind have evolved to understand music, the impact that music has on all aspects of our nervous system, and the role music has played in unlocking the secrets of the brain.
Lo que sí soy, como bien lo menciona el libro, es un experto en identificar lo que me gusta: la música me gusta.
Y si tú como yo cree que una canción no consiste en más que unas notas aquí, otros acordes por allá, y unas pocas palabras puestas en determinado lugar, bueno, te haría bien leer este libro.El libro está divido en dos partes: la primera de ellas en lecciones básicas (pero realizadas magistralmente) de conceptos musicales y de aquello que conforma la música: la segunda parte en cómo el cerebro reacciona a este estimulo de sonido, tanto cuando se hace como cuando sólo se escucha.
Really cool book on the the brain's relationship with and to music.
Although written for a general audience, Levitan doesn't significantly dumb down or shy away from the neuroscience at the very heart of the book.
Finally, he's got both the musical and scientific chops to understand the subject matter from both sides.
This means there's enough science and detail to impart some pretty technical information, but its presented in a way that you don't have to be a brain surgeon to understand.
What is particularly nice is that he also addresses the emotional quality of music, not just the mathematical/structural, in its relation to the brain.
The book is about, as it says on the tin, the effect of music on the brain.
The book gets quite scientific in places and reminded me of Doidge’s the brain that changes itself, which is a total must read.
The book also looks at certain songs that have stood the test of time and explains why the human ear enamours itself to them and not to others.
Near the end the book talks about the psychology of music and why it is pertinent to us as humans and why we should listen to music because of the beneficial effects it can have on the physiology of our brains.
OK that's not such a stretch, but did you know that if we were to electronically remove one of the overtones, the first overtone is the octave or doubling so 880hz, you brain replaces the missing frequency.
Think about that, what comes in the ear is unnaturally missing a frequency, but your brain replaces it ...
The experimenters to the signal being read back from brain scans and passed it through an audio amplified and finally to a speaker and the rabbits brain played back the missing frequency.
The book was highly enjoyable for me and I'm not a professional musician (or a neuroscientist), but I've always been aware of what music can do to me, from meditation to headbanging and beyond.
I've read some people got disappointed of finding 'too much music theory' or 'too much neuroscience'; well honestly I don't think the book has to much of either of them, it's not written for neuroscientists or for professional musicians (even when I think both groups could enjoy it), and lets face it, you picked up a book about music and brains, what did you expect?
Levitin goes too far out of his way to make the book appeal to the layman.
His tone isn't condescending, but he came across as an academic out of his element.
Much of the research he cites is very fascinating.
Levitin spends most of the book citing other research and did not assert his own opinions until the very end.
I found his own views fascinating, but even then he couldn't tie it all together into something meaningful.This book was given to me as a present from a friend.
When you experience a certain reverberation and understand it, then the reverberation that you are conscious of and the computational functions in your brain that make this experience possible, are not two different things but two sides of the same coin.Levitin's attempt to explain why music moves us is slightly interesting, but, again, he confuses us with his dualism.
This just creates another question; why do our "brains" like music - why does the cerebellum find "pleasure in adjusting itself to stay synchronized"?
A dense, sometimes wandering, very rewarding book about how we experience music. It’s as much about our brains as about music, and Levitin is knowledgeable and interesting on both. Exemplary nonfiction.
My boyfriend will be very glad that I'm done with this book, since I kept on complaining all the way through as I read it.It definitely does have some interesting facts and ideas within it, so it's vaguely interesting, but more importantly, it's also profoundly irritating.
in summary, for me this book definitely has some interesting ideas, but if you are going to read it, keep your skeptics society baseball cap firmly in place for the duration.
I would think the combined topics of music and science would interest me, but it didn't, at least not in the way this author tackled it.
He also insists that music theory and notation are needlessly complicated and intentionally designed so to confuse laymen, which I think is preposterous.
Anyone can learn to read music.
I might have enjoyed the book more if I'd skipped the introductory lessons on basic music theory, but I wanted to see what he had to say about it.
I'd be open to reading another book on the science of how we perceive music.
I'm led to believe that it will get better when he starts getting into the subject matter a bit more, but the first chapter is basically a quick and dirty introduction to music theory, most of which I am already quite familiar with.
I'll force myself to get into the second chapter and see how it goes from there.After finishing, I can say this book has a lot of information in it.
He also discusses the evolutionary reasons that music has continued to exist.
I'd recommend this book to anyone who is interested in Cognitive Neuroscience, music, or both.
A lot of the reviews seem to be complaining about the writing style and the author's tone, but honestly I don't remember much about either of those (it's been months since I read this book; I just happened to be thinking about it again today).
What I remember most clearly was the ideas, and how it got me thinking about both music and the brain in new ways.
I have a keen (if amateur) interest in brains, so approaching it from a familiar direction (music) was a good intro to the neurology.I guess what I'm saying is: it was my first popular neurology book.
-When basic elements of sound combine in a meaningful way,it gives rise to music.-Most theories believe music has an evolutionary basis.In order to sing and dance well, you must be mentally and physically fit.It is so deep-rooted in us that it may have helped our pre-human ancestors learn to speak.-Processing music involves almost every region of the brain that we know of.-Appreciation of music is linked to the brain's ability to predict what will come next, and a good composer controls these musical expectations.-Songs can act as keys to memories, because people use the same brain regions for remembering as they do for perceiving music.-Musical expertise comes first from a combination of practice genetic predispositions.-Music preference begins with the music we're exposed to.We choose music we're familiar with.In one study, pregnant women were assigned a specific song to listen to on a regular basis.
If you have any basic understanding of neuroscience (I'm talking VERY basic understanding of neurons, the structure of the brain, etc.) and music (I'm talking third grade piano lessons), a lot of this books is tedious.
Levitin clearly wants this book to be accessible to anyone, and while that's GREAT, it also means that a lot of groundwork needs to be laid down.
Once Levitin gets into the actual analysis of how your brain processes and interacts with music, I was WAY more interested!
This analysis is where the book succeeds.
Unfortunately, it takes a lot of wading through definitions to get to that analysis.
Where Byrne covers issues of cultural cues and personal responses to music in a broad sense, Levitin dives deep into the neural processing that goes on in music interpretation, and the emotional cerebellar responses that come along for the ride.
Levitin heartily disagrees, and says that music co-evolved with dance as a means of sexual selection-expression and of tying emotion intimately to neural processes.
Grandin and Pinker deserve our empathy, because they don't quite understand what Levitin understands very well - music is the core, language comes along for the ride.
