https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46156.A_Literate_Passion
Does he really relate to the words he writes or is he simply a fictioneer?Henry Miller was a Lutheran from New York but spent much of his creative time in Paris.I had not read Anais Nin. A suffragette and a diarist.
A great writer, I believe from Spain originally, and then a resident of both Paris and New York.I learned that Anais and I share a love for the writings of DH Lawrence.
A proof of sorts that fiction deviates only slightly from the writer's true pen.Anais.
A lot more can be learned here than “On Writing,” by King.)
از نامههای آنائيس به هنری میلر:از تو بیزارم هِنری!زیرا نیک میدانم هیچکس را هیچوقت چنان دوست نداشتم که تو را.دلتنگِ صدای توام،دستانات، آغوشات، بدناتخوی وحشی و خوی نیکاتو بیش از همه دلتنگِ دوستیمان
از نامه‌های آنائيس به هنری میلر:از تو بیزارم هِنری!زیرا نیک می‌دانم هیچ‌کس را هیچ‌وقت چنان دوست نداشتم که تو را.دل‌تنگِ صدای توام،دستان‌ات، آغوش‌ات، بدن‌اتخوی وحشی‌ و خوی نیک‌اتو بیش از همه دل‌تنگِ دوستی‌مان
Nin and Miller's passionate affair is now common knowledge, and this anthology of their letters lay's it even more bare.
Certainly passion.
Many of the inclusions are inconsequential, but that's more than made up for by the runs of letters where ideas flail and their craving for one another burns.Nin kept her affair with Miller a secret from her husband, Hugo, and never published any of her writings that overtly mentioned Miller until after he died.
I’m sure many a literati heart sunk when reading that due to space limitations, the editors felt it necessary to eliminate “lengthy discussions of Dostoevsky, Proust, Joyce, D.H. Lawrence, [...:] ruminations on films, books, and so on...” Fortunately, such illuminations were not withheld entirely and serve to illustrate the deep, intellectual bond that formed the basis of Miller and Nin’s love affair.
The letters oscillate between the divinely passionate and occasionally tedious, but the lows are endurable when rewarded with such ingenious perspicacity and poetic grace.
Especially satisfying for the sentimentalists.
What an amazing book!
Incredible how it shows you how dedicated their relationship was!You keep wondering what did go wrong, why it didn't work out, why just friends?There's so much to learn from their letters.They helped each other and they built something of their own.
It might seem strange to other people, but it worked out and both of them reached success.Their love might have burned out but there was more than that:they were intrinsically linked.There was trust, friendship, loyalty, hope.
Obviously both of them had flaws and weakness but they completed each other and that isn't something easy to find.&& If there's someone capable of writing letters as seducing as Miller, it is Anaïs.
A- I highly recommend this epistolorary collection to all Nin fans; you learn to understand her love and devotion to Miller, and you do feel a little more empathetic to Miller--he has SO much love for her. You see the raw emotions--jealous, white hot sex, passion--in these letters. They span over the years, so towards the end, they are just friends, but you know their love always runs deep.
My first introduction to Anais Nin, completely accidental, hungry for any Miller I could find at Half Price. Like an entirely new world. At seventeen, I didn't know people could feel this way about each other. God, these two were on fire.
This is one of my very favorite reads. So passionate and full of heartbreak, drama and longing. Reading both Henry and Anais's letters made me feel like I was one of their trusted confidants to whom they revealed their most intimate of moments to.
Once you become obsessed with Henry Miller reading about Anais Nin is a natural progression.
Anais, you have become so vital a part of me that I’m completely upside down, if this means anything.
I don’t know what I write- only that I love you, that I must have you exclusively, fiercely, possessively.
I don’t know what I want.
I’ve got too much, I guess.
You don’t know how I miss those nights we spent together- how much they meant to me.
You come and you make me sick with desire, with a desire to possess you, to have you around me always, talking to me naturally, moving about as if you were a part of me.
I just finished it... I may update this review when I am can see this from a distance, but for now, I am heart-broken.
Gli occhi mi si inumidiscono, mi rendo conto che c’è una bellezza al mondo completamente fuori della mia portata, e davanti alla quale io mi inchino.
È un universo di cui mi sono sbattuto alle spalle la porta, e mai tenterò di riaprirla, ma devo confessare che, nottetempo, ci ritorno di continuo e me ne sto bramoso lì davanti, sapendo di avere lasciato qualcosa di prezioso, là dentro.
I was drawn in not by Nin and Miller's attraction for each other, but by their powerful love for the art of writing and the tenacious loyalty they showed for each other's work even after they ceased their affair.
They frequently discussed in their letters the books they had read, the movies they had seen, and the merits of various authors and philosophies.
It was also encouraging for me as a writer to read of their difficulties and frustrations with getting their work published and how their persistence eventually paid off for both Nin and Miller.
This book showed me that the community doesn't have to be a bunch of writers.
These letters explore a budding friendship, the burgeoning of a tempestuous relationship, all kinds of passionate pleas for the individual in society, solemn entreaties for love and autonomy, sentiments concerning the role of the artist in 20th century America, disappointments and regrets, and finally a return to friendship. You won’t be able to put it down. You’ll wish for letters of intimacy, that these letters could find you in the present, and, no doubt, you will morn the death of the letter. You will begin to see the loss of this art form as a human loss.
Gorgeous, raw, sensual, cerebral, literary exchange between two great authors and lovers.

Provides deep insight into such an impassioned relationship - even more so than Nin's unexpunged diaries. The revelry and candid intimacy in the beginning to mid sections of the book gives way to strained friendship at the end. So disheartening to see such a great love fall apart! Letters shine due to Miller's and Nin's pervading wisdoms on life. Too bad they hadn't the same acuity into their hearts.
I love both of these writers very much. I will read anything by them. I prefer Miller slightly over Nin, though. Who knew Miller was such a prolific letter-writer? I know now, obviously, but these letters are a glimpse into their lives, the real stuff, not just the diaries and the Tropics. You can really see the love of craft, as well as for the other.
This is a fascinating series of letters between Miller and Nin. It really gives you an intimate peek into their lives and their passionate friendship. Absolutely recommend it for fans of either author.
I have long romanticized this affair between Nin and Miller, but after reading this book I realized that their relationship was just like any other relationship- exhilarating but full of challenges and less than perfect- only with better writing.
Not as interesting as I thought it would be...disappointing. Henry and June is SO much better!!!!!
Briefe voller Andeutungen. Geschichte einer besonderen Beziehung.
What do they say--riveting?
this is about as amazing as any friendship gets between two people. its such a peek into the lives of two of my favorite writers.
Not my kind of book, unfortunately. I couldn't stand either one of them by the end. Sadly.
Largely innocuous stuff, but there were a few lines that were so brilliant that they saved the book for me completely.
This is one of my all-time favorite reads. The passion and longing between Henry and Anais and their eventual lifelong relationship was awe-inspiring.
I like the passion books.
these letters chronicle a very intense artistic liaison...
I went through a several months phase of reading Anais' diaries, and found these letters fascinating alongside them...
