https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140093.A_Bone_to_Pick
The one thing that bothers me about this website is that everyone feels the need to add a synopsis of the book; I can easily find that elsewhere.
I seem to find myself reading her books in the summertime when we're all looking for something entertaining to read.
Charlaine Harris does however have a variable vocabulary so it isn't entirely a bird book (fly right through without having to think).
So if you're looking for something with a good story line, humour, mystery, entertaining and with a smidge of romance, Ms. Harris always delivers.
The second in the Teagarden series. I liked this as much as the first one. Laugh out loud moments. Very fast paced. I didn't have a clue who did the deed. Many things changed since the first book. Especially in Roe's love life. (I was disappointed a little by that) Then Roe finds out she was included in a friend's will. She's ecstatic until she makes a gruesome discovery.Many quirky characters, some implausible conversations and events, but I don't think cozy mysteries should be analyzed too closely. Overall a A -
Familiar with Aurora Teagarden from a movie and the first novel, it is enjoyable to follow the acquisition of her house.
An elderly mystery buff bequeathed it to her.Aurora's Mother onscreen protests her sleuthing and makes nay-saying noise.
The humour of Aurora's inner thoughts, her outright predicaments, and Charlaine's whole delivery are wonderful!Romance comes up but true to real life, she doesn't need to score the first guy introduced.
I nudged a little bit down is because the superfluous mystery is entirely unbelievable.
Willing Aurora to solve it in regretful retrospect became unnecessarily cryptic.
There would have been little to solve if Jane had reported it.
Now it's time to go through boxes containing 7 years' worth of receipts!) (view spoiler)[ Then, without warning, near the end of disc 5, someone breaks into the house while our heroine is there and the murderer follows (giving a sudden and full confession, of course).
Also, I took major issue with Lynn having her baby at the end - the likelihood that anyone, let alone a first time mother, gives birth in the time it takes police to arrive since calling 911, is ridiculous.
After reading A Bone to Pick, I am sure that I just do not like Aurora as a character and this series as a whole.
The actual story is a bit boring and doesn't make me want to continue the series at all, it just came off as a bland story that seems to be written for little old women who could possibly be offended by the real world and people of color.
This series feels like it is written for a very conservative homogeneous audience.
A fun read! With most of the the main characters already introduced, I enjoyed this one more than the first book in the series. There were several pages to catch us up on Roe's life since the end of the first book and then it was right on to the mystery.
Charlaine Harris has a great way of exploring small towns that have something a little bit of "odd" about them. This series is c.25 years old so although there are some interestingly old fashioned ideas ( I guess the time period + the small town), it is great fun and Aurora is an easy character to like.Not my favourite Harris series, but very enjoyable.
Though quality, quantity, plot, “mystery” and so on, was pretty much on the same level.Secondly, when you look for it, you can find some catchy quotes here and there, for example, one about Aurora and her love life – “I had learned long ago that it was better to be homealone with a good book and a bag of potato chips than it was to be out on a date with someone who leftyou cold” and it somehow fits with the one in first book (I feel like I’m making a comparison without even intending to) “Maybe I hadn't been a big dating success because I was a boring person, but possibly it had been because I had limited tolerance for all this preliminary maneuvering and signal reading.“Lastly, I feel like the only thing I actually cared about in this book was Madeleine and her babies.
Aurora Teagarden is a lousy librarian and an irritating girl-woman.
The mystery was good but she's so very irritating with her dating agita and less than humor-filled life.
I know the reviewers say that these are full of humor but I don't see it.
There's a level of seriousness at odds with the shallowness of the heroine.The first 50 pages were hopeful as she mourns the death of an acquaintance and as she finds out this woman leaves her house with an amazing amount of money and a mystery in the form of a skull hidden inside.
Missing the obvious at many turns, she suffers break-ins and more.It's a good thing that eventually she stops being a librarian and becomes an financially independent busybody.
Like some reviewers have mentioned, Aurora Teagarden Mysteries are not actually mysteries. Rather, these books are about Roe's life, with a little bit of a mystery thrown in, mostly in the end of the books. I personally didn't mind that. Charlaine Harris has that special talent of describing everyday life of an ordinary person (in this case, Aurora's) and lives and gossip of a small town in a very entertaining manner. Although this series lacks uniqueness of the supernatural world described in the Southern Vampire series, it is still very engaging, and I will continue reading it.
I actually enjoyed this book a lot. The writing was great and is an easy read to fly through in a few hours. Definitely recommend.
a 3.5 for me.  I like the Aurora Teagarden series and I will likely read the rest of the series. It's not the best cozy series but it's fun and suspenseful. This series is more for starter cozy mystery readers because of how easy and breezy it is. I don't mean that in a bad way at all. I really like Charlaine Harris's writing and I especially love her Harper Connelly series. Before you even think of reading this one go read book 1 "Real Murders". :)
About the same as the first, maybe a shade better. It's a mystery. A little romance, but mostly a fluff book. For some reason, I find them very engaging, though. Off to read the next.
Honestly I can't see why this is listed as a cozy mystery. There is absolutely no investigation by Aurora Teagarden. She finds a skull and re-hides it and doesn't investigate a damn thing. Oh she asks herself questions but doesn't actually ask anyone else anything. The book just plods along her boring little life and the murderer reveals himself in the last chapter. Aurora didn't actually have a darn thing to do with it. Definitely not a series I'd continue.
Ahhhhh...I feel like I’ve gone back in time a few years.
Finally finished a book in a day :) I enjoyed this Teagarden cozy a lot more than the first one.
There seemed to be less characters and I even remembered those that had been in the first book.
Again, it was another plausible whodunit.
I hate those that tell you the culprit and all you can say is: What?!?!?!
This series apparently doesn’t do that.
Well, at least two of them don’t.
Plain Jane Librarian and she already gone through a cop, a minister and a teacher lol
It's a good thing I didn't check my own review of the first book in this series. I didn't think very much of it, but it was the subject matter: notorious True Crime perpetrators. I enjoyed this book and felt that the protagonist was better presented. It's a light read--sometimes I want that.
What a fun book! Just an entertaining story, nothing too serious, lighthearted and fun.....even the murder. It probably helps that we never meet the victim, just his skull! I found myself laughing out loud in several parts of the story. Aurora is a riot, always managing to find a boyfriend, not quite managing a husband.....yet!
I'm really enjoying this series. They are easy reads with likable characters that I can listen to while knitting and stationary biking without dropping a stitch or falling off the bike. :)
I love this series and the fact there's separate murders per book with different killers! Really great read love the language and even some funny phrases used throughout the book. Could not fault it, its brilliant. I'd take these novels over the television show anytime.
That ending though! So good!
I love Roe Teagarden! 4-1/2 stars. This is such a pleasant series, and the story line in this one was especially intriguing. This series should be read in order.
I'm really loving this series.In this one Roe has inherited a house, a fortune, and a mystery!An absolute fun romp right for page one.Love it.
Another wonderful Aurora Teagarden mystery. Roe is a great MC and the mystery was good. Having seen the Hallmark movie first, I liked the book more. Of course, that's usually the way it goes. I am definitely going to keep reading this series. :)
It was definitely not an intense type mystery, or really a huge mystery, but it was enjoyable. Aurora inherits money and a problem from a member of the now-defunct death club. I like the characters as I learn more about them, and I'm sure I'll continue with t he series.
It's a very different experience, but the major issues I had with this book were plot-related, so I don't think listening on audiobook affected my rating too much.Aurora inherits a house and a giant bank account from her friend Jane, and then gets caught up in intrigue and suspense and whatever.
But Jane was never a moron in the previous book, so that leaves me thinking that the plot was just poorly constructed and square pegs got hammered into round holes.
Roe finds herself wondering who the skull belongs to and why it was in her seemingly harmless friend's house.I really like the characters in this series, Roe is balanced and reminds me of the librarians in my town.
Roe has a new love interest, Aubrey, who I hope we see more of in future books.
I absolutely love Roe's mom she's hilarious and bossy, but in a good way.Between this book and the last it seemed like a lifetime had passed.
I hope the next book picks up right after this one!
I enjoyed this one more than I enjoyed the first, which makes me glad I didn’t give up. That being said, it still wasn’t all that amazing.As with the first book, this one focuses more upon the personal lives of characters than solving the crime. Honestly, for a mystery book (even a laidback one) these details really do take a backseat. It’s more than a little bit annoying when you want to know what happens.So it was another interesting story but I, yet again, wanted more of an investigation for Roe.
The farther into this book I got, the more I realized I hate Aurora Teagarden. If she's not the most arrogant, self centered jerk, I'm Oprah Winfrey. She's just absolutely unlikable from Page 1 on. I don't remember this from the first book, maybe I blocked it, maybe the author was going through some stuff when she wrote this one but either way... Wow. What a horrendous person Roe turns out to be.
Muy ameno y entretenido. Algunos puntos son predecibles (miren mis updates si no me creen ;) ), pero no los principales, al igual que el primer libro logró confundirme y tomarme por sorpresa.Amo la naturalidad de Harris para escribir y lo poco que llevo leído de esta serie me está gustado mucho.
This one was okay. I didn't feel like much a tually happened until the last couple of chapters.
