https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50486.Baudelaire_Rimbaud_Verlaine
I'm abandoning this one after barely thrashing through Baudelaire and drowning in Rimbaud.
Every other stanza in the Baudelaire poems had "tenebrous" somewhere in them and that just seemed lazy work by the translator.
The word no longer connotes gloomy murkiness if it draws attention to itself so much.I think the best way to get through this translation is to make a drinking game out of it: Every time you read the word "tenebrous" you drink a shot of absinthe!"I also think I'm the wrong age to read Rimbaud - his wine is a young wine.
These three would have kicked all our aarses back in the day. Baudelaire with his purple hair flowing down the Champ-Eylles(sp?), syphillitic Rimbaud hustling off to Africa and Verlaine with a glass of Absinthe in one hand, a cross in the other. You can't go wrong even if these days Baudelaire reads like ornate, clove-scented drapery, Rimbaud like a 19th century version of a spoiled teen and Verlaine, well he's practically unreadable.
They were, and still remain, the most luminous writers in the history of the French language. Their use of images reinvented French poetry, taking it away from the formal nonsense trendy at the time to a whole new level of achievement, beauty and vitalism.
this book first introduced me to these lunatics.
Baudelaire just didn’t connect with. Too many exclamation marks and mythological references. Rimbaud – will come back to...
I would rather dive into a monolith on each than to find out what the editors chose to present. That being said, there is always pleasure to be found in their work.
*A note on the translation (since many think it is poorly translated)First, go ahead and look up some poems by Arthur Symons (London Nights, if you can find it).
If anything like a zeitgeist exists, then Symons is a prime candidate for the times.
Although the translations might be a little difficult, he still manages to capture the attention to form that so many modern translations of Baudelaire lack.
Also, like Baudelaire, he is a "premiere" Decadent.
He liked whores, absinthe, walking around at night and poetry.
It has most of everything by Rimbaud and Baudelaire in one volume, including the Louise Varese translation of Rimbaud's "A Season in Hell".
Rating is for the Rimbaud and Verlaine sections. See separate review for Baudelaire's Les Fleurs du Mal, as translated by William Aggeler. Could not stomach the Arthur Symons translations of Baudelaire included here.
Still reading. I flipped through another edition of A Season In Hell at a bookstore once and loved it. It seemed snotty in attitude but also pessimistic and cool. I've read a lot of Baudelaire poems and prose in this book. Baudelaire writes neat, little vignettes. Sometimes they seem a little too expectant of sighs, some of them too full of Victorian titillation, but they are good over all.
Perhaps this was just a bad translation, but most of these poems seemed inaccessible to me. Granted they were written in the 19th century, but nevertheless, I think they could have benefited from a fresh translation, one that makes them more comprehensible to the modern reader.
I actually do not like this collection but am too lazy to put each of those I prefer on here. So long as you get "A Season In Hell" and "The Flowers of Evil" you're set. Verlaine I consider a novelty act.
brings together not just the best of each, but draws a thread through all three, albeit inconspicuously.
These three famed French poets -- Baudelaire, Rimbaud, and Verlaine -- are all beyond my present reading interest. (Just an FYI for myself. Book discarded.)
read this one back in the late 80's/early 90s i believe. definitely warped my mind, for good and bad, i guess.
Great poetry, poorly translated.
Not the best translations...
Another one of my earlier books...
good to a point
Love Baudelaire - Rimbaud & Verlaine are total bonus.
