https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6581511-shadowland
Updated: December 20th, 2011. FUCKING HELL, EVER.WHY MUST YOU MAKE THE STUPIDEST CHOICES?This book infuriated me even more than Blue Moon did. Because of the FUCKING ENDING. OH. MY. FUCKING.AAAAAGH.Blue Moon ended with her making a stupid choice.Shadowland ended with her making an even STUPIDER choice.WHY? JUST.WHY?
The first two books of the series was entirely great. I am hoping that this one will be to, but i'm tired of seeing things get in the way of Ever and Damon
This was a YA paranormal romance which carried on from the previous book.Ever was a bit of a muppet in this book, and continued to let Roman walk all over her again.
I did feel sorry for her because of the way that Damen was treating her, but she didn’t seem to have learned anything from her experiences unfortunately.
We also had Damen taking over care of Romy and Rayne, and Ever getting better acquainted with a book of spells.
This wasn’t as good a book as the previous two in the series though.The ending to this didn’t really seem to solve anything, and in fact things just seemed to get worse.
I spent the whole book waiting for something to happen and I don't feel like anything ever did.
I'm sorry, I just cannot believe Ever and Damen's connection and neither could I believe the connection with Jude.
Damen removes himself from the situation while she figures things out and in the meantime, she accidentally aligns herself with Roman when he poisons her best friend, Haven, and Ever must decide whether to save Haven by making her immortal or letting her die but getting the antidote that they need.
I'll let you guess what she decided.
I didn't, but I also didn't like the book.
When her aunt tells her she needs to get a job, Ever whines about it because she won't have time to find the antidote for Damen so they can fuck.
Damen thinks that they owe it to the twins to help them, since they helped him find Ever, but Ever is upset because Rayne(one of the only characters I liked) calls her out on her bullshit.
Then Ever makes another stupid mistake by changing her whiny, over dramatic, bitchy best friend Haven into an Immortal.The book ends with Ever whining about how she fucked up and Damen forgiving her.
I have very mixed thoughts about this book.
It was hard to put down once you have started it, but once it is finished it doesn't leave you fully satisfied.I wish I could teleport myself into Shadowland and try and shake some sense into Ever.
Every time she tries to help she just ends up making things ten times worse.
She should have learned from her mistakes and left things well enugh alone.
Another charictor that really gets on my nerves in Haven.
She is incredibly self-centered.
I just hope this series gets better with time.
I should probably have some wine and chocolate and calm the hell down but I need to get this review over and done so I can move on and purge it from my memory which fortunately for me (in this case) isn’t very good anyway.If you haven’t read the previous books in the series they are Evermore and Blue Moon and you really haven’t missed much.
I loved the first two books!
didn’t love it so much.
I loved the introduction of the “shadowland” but it just lacked substance in the plot overall.
Mostly because I didn’t really feel that anything is resolved from the last book.
Her impulsiveness and stubbornness can be forgiven and even overlooked the first and even the second time around, but by the third book I’d like to see a little personal growth.
Everything I loved about the series was there...
they were just overshadowed by things I didn’t like.At this point, I’m definitely going to continue to read the series.
I loved Evermore because I found Ever to be such a great character and I really liked her, but now she's just annoying.
And not to sound mean or anything, but I would have preferred that Ever let Haven die not just because it would have been the right thing to do but because Haven is one of the most annoying characters in this series and I would have been glad to be rid of her.
Bah!!I believe that this is going to be a common occurence in this series-Ever making a stupid,impulsive decision and making everything worse.
Even though I just found out that in the next series there’s someone named like me – Jude (and it’s a guy, why are the Jude’s always guys?)- not even this, is going to make read more.
Bye-Bye The Immortal Series, maybe when the series is finished I’ll go an read the ending or something, but I’m done.
[UPDATE: This series has ended, I already did the unspeakable and just read the last two pages of the final book and...
Won't touch this books again.
especially considering that, you know, I payed for them.But yeah, this series and me....
In Alyson Noel’s latest installment of ‘The Immortals’ series, Shadowland, Ever and her true love Damen are faced with one huge problem: They can’t touch each other or Damen will die.
Oh but wait, Damen pretty much clears up the whole issue at the beginning of the book by putting up some kind of shield so that they can touch, but anything that gets real sexual is out of the question.
Noel brings back the same characters that have been in previous installments – Haven, Miles, Roman, the creepy twins – and we have one new character, Jude.
More shrugging, more lip-pressing, not to mention a new stud who's hot for Ever.
Apparently because they've hooked up (or come close) in every one of their previous lives before Damen managed to drag Ever away.
So now we have not one, but TWO devastatingly hot men in love with this piss-poor excuse for a human being?
It's bad enough that Alyson Noel expects me to believe a man who's been around for 600 years could ever find a girl like Ever Bloom even remotely interesting, now she's dragged another poor sap into it, and I don't think I'll ever forgive her.
All of Noel's books have the same theme; rich, snobby ass materialist wanna be's formed from pathetic shows like Gossip Girl and 90210.( as proven in her other book Art Geeks and Prom Queens) Please explain to me why in most books the minute some one changes their personality and goes through something terrible the "popular" girl just has to be a bitch for no legit reason.
I hated the whole thing with Roman and Drina, seriously.
Also, was she that stupid that she couldn't realize "Hey Drina, Ever keeps coming back so I might as well just give the fuck up and move on" I am sure Noel could of chose a better super villain.
Except I hate how Haven copied EVERYONE around her.
Give me a break.Damon is annoying, he's acting like the 500-year-old dude that he is, instead of the hot guy we all love(ish).And Jude is weird.
I wanted to look forward to SOMETHING in the book, and a little drama involving Ever cheat on Damon would have been perfect and the back of the book made it look like Damon was barely in the story, letting us get to know Jude better.
Jude was hardly in it at all and there was very little attraction between him and Ever.Ever's "friends" continue to annoy me.
I came across the audio for Shadowland, so I thought I would give it another try.
I thought the narrator did a good job; I just didn't find the story engaging or entertaining.
The narrator was actually a good choice for this book.
She had a young-sounding voice, playing up Ever's immaturity.Original review September 8, 2011 -I had read the first two books in this series and thought they were pretty good…this one I could hardly even finish.
Shadowland continued the story from the first two books, but the story did not really go anywhere.
1.5 starsEver and Damen are whining. A lot.They treat 'karma' like it is a god.They whine some more.Ever meets a hot dude.She gets a job with hot dude.Damen pulls an Edward. (ie, book 2) ;)Roman is up to something.Ever can't figure it out.Ever does stupid things.Ever does more even stupider things.The end. Of book 3.*headdesk*I liked the first book and I thought that it showed potential, but alas, the second and third book have proved me wrong. Oh well, on to something else!
we don't know and a new character, Jude, is introduced who has some unfinished business with Ever and we don't know if he's one of the good or bad guys.Let's stay optimistic and hope that Ever will come to her senses in the next installment, because otherwise I think I'll just going to have to slap her, and that Damen is right, quote: "Some things no matter how painful happen for a reason.
Nothing about this book or this series could motivate me to pick the book back up and continue on.
The thought of reading the remaining 3 books in this series (view spoiler)[just to see if Ever and Damen ever get to have sex, which I'm sure will take all the way until the very end of the last book (hide spoiler)] just makes me want to bash my head into the wall.
Soooo....even though I hate leaving a series unfinished, I won't be continuing on with this.
If you're a published author (good or otherwise) it is completely acceptable to use incomplete sentences to describe what is happening as if you're writing a play.2.
That must mean I really couldn't take this book seriously."A wise person learns from others' mistakes, a fool learns from their own." As usual, Ever is stubborn and foolish.
If she doesn't even learn from her own mistakes, what does that make her?
She kept making the same mistakes over and over unrepentantly until the end.The entire series has been so lackluster and hilarious, it's actually an inside joke with one of my friends.
It's not worth the humiliation she's putting herself through by writing this.
I couldn't even finish this book.
(By the way, the only reason he is cursed is because Ever was a freaking idiot in the second book and chose to trust the evil guy instead of the good ones WHO WANTED HER NOTHING BUT GOOD THINGS OH MY GOD WHY IS SHE SO STUPID).So basically, the entire book is about Ever trying to fix her idiotic mistake and looking for a cure by, among other things negotiating with Roman (the aforementioned Evil Guy), looking for answers in this Wonderland-type world and by learning black magic.
After reading this book i was totally disappointed and frustrated.
All of the dumb mistakes Ever makes leaves u so frustrated u just want to hit her in the head with a boulder.
I find it hard 2 believe that Ever would just allow Haven her 'best friend' to just walk away with Roman, her enemy, even after the twins told her something terrible would happen and yet again she would have 2 make a difficult choice.
The twins warn her and yet she ignores them and makes the wrong choice?
I think it's funny that Ever's great concern at the end of the book (SPOILER ALERT) is that now that she's made Haven "Immortal" she fears Haven's death...anyone else having trouble with that one?
It's like the same issue Edward had with turning Bella into a vampire for fear of her soul, only these immortals drink the elixir of life rather than blood.
On the bright side, I laughed, which warrants two stars rather than the single ones I gave the first two books.
The book just plodded along.
My basic question would be - if you were dumped and badly treated by your boyfriend in the last book, why would you return to him and act as if nothing happened?
Surely there must be better role models for teen readers.The other question that came up for me would be the topic of fate and soul mates.
Are we fated to be with our soul mate?
Does history repeat itself over and over again so that we can be with our soul mate?
Well this third book of the immortals series wasn't bad but it wasn't too good either.
I think it's because Ever's character never changes and makes another problem she would soon regret in the next book of this series.
Though the introduction of the new character, Jude, made it a little more interesting it isn't enough to convince me otherwise about the other parts of the story.
It really took me time to finish this, and that this book really took a different path than I expected so I hope for something better in the fourth book.
I still have faith that this could be better when I read the next one :P.
Can't wait until this comes out!!!!!<3AHHHH! Awesome cover!!!
Deze serie wordt per deel echt beter!!!
i can't wait!! and what is this about "testing her love for damen"? grr...
That was only a plot device so Damen could lecture Ever about making things immortal to save them, ultimately leading up to the end of this book.
Roman tells her that she'll find out what he wants for it soon, but she wants to try to find it on her own.She goes to Ava's old house and finds that the twins, Romy and Rayne, have been stuck in the real world since Damen got the tainted antidote.
The fun character from before was just not there.The book finally ends after Miles' going away party.
I think this book sucked.
1st nothing happened throughout the entire book until the 2nd to last chapter and even that was taking forever so I just skipped over that chapter to the end to find what new and idiotic move Ever decided to pull this time...and that ending was more predictable than how disgusting fruit cake is.
2nd the book was extremely under done.
I could sum up the entire book in one chapter...that's how little happened.
I just think that for a series that was going well before was a complete....disapointment and I was saddened that I even read it.
