https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3047850-wicked
Like always.. this series is always entertaining and you never find yourself feeling bored. Although this is only the 5th book in the series I've read - I did feel like something was missing. Suspense, maybe. The story never felt dull but I did feel like the heart of the story got a little bit lost. Can't wait to read the next book! :)
Quite a lot of time is taken up with Hanna wondering how she could possibly have failed to notice for 3½ years that her best friend was a deluded psychopath who knew all her secrets and wanted her dead, even though they were incredibly close and loved each other like sisters.
After endless running away crying and making a scene in public places Emily finally tells her new boyfriend that she used to go out with a girl, and he graciously “accepts” this, which is exactly as you would expect from the smug type of Christian he represents.The trial is eventually reached, but unfortunately doesn’t get very far as it turns out that Ian has escaped the Rosewood police, who are on typically effective form, and disappeared.
Wicked by Sara ShepardActual Rating: 4.5/5 StarsThis isn't 5 stars, because I'm still waiting for that PLL book that just blows me away...
I feel like this book didn't have much of Emily in it, which I enjoyed, because i think she's my least fav character, although the parts she was in, I did still enjoy.Spencer was great, as usual, although I think this book focused a lot more on Hanna than anyone, which I also loved, because Hanna is so complex and fun to read about.I predicted the ending...because of the TV-show, even though it didn't exactly happen the same way, hahaI also loved the chapter where Hanna was running on the trail, such a picturesque scene.I completely love this addicting series, and I just love Sara Shepard's writing so much, she definitely knows how to write a thrilling and nail biting novel!
3.5 stars - spoilers for the previous books in this series.This series has always created mixed feelings for me, and rightly so.
While the plotline lacked the action of some of the previous book, it made up for it with the an incredible level of suspense and just general eeriness.
I also enjoyed most of the subplots for once though they were a little repetitive and some were simply rehashes of the last book's "secrets".I was a little dissatisfied with the lack of character development though, especially concerning Hanna and Emily.
ok, so i LOVE these book, as soon as i finish one, i automatically HAVE to know what comes next.
it's such an obsession, like, i cannot stop thinking about the next book until i have it, so, of course i was very upset once i finally finished this one.
:( this one really leads into a sequel, there are so many new and interesting twists!
like, i SO did not expect ian to get killed!
i also am DYING to know what happens with emily and her new boyfriend.
This series is so good. The books get better every time. Stay tuned for reviews :)
Reviewed by Jaglvr for TeensReadToo.comIan Thomas is in jail awaiting trial and the girls are able to relax and return to their lives.
Just when the reader thought that the mystery of A has been solved at the end of UNBELIEVABLE, more bizarre events await the girls of Rosewood.
Hanna, Spencer, Emily, and Aria slowly try to settle back into their normal lives.
In WICKED, the reader gets a glimpse of the past and how the five girls initially became friends.
Told in alternating voices by each of the girls, the pieces of the puzzle slowly start to come together.
And Emily isn't gay - kinda...maybe?Welcome to Rosewood where everything is a lie.Sigh.
For being such good friends, these books only seem to talk about the sleepover where she disappeared and this stupid find the flag game at their school.
Also the author seems to think it's okay for 16 year old girls to have relationships with men in their 30's because once again, Aria is after an older man - until she realizes he's dating her mom.
There is still no character growth in any of the girls and we are through 5 books.
im just going to go over what's happened so far, so MAJOR SPOILER ALERT!okay, here goes-1.mona was a.
its like, come on, how can you NOT know that your best friend hated you.
in flawless, she totally backstabbed hannah, taking her trust, and shoving the drugs under the adults' noses.
and if she wasn't going to share hannah's binging problem, than what was that sinister phone call about?
things arent looking good for the PLLs. spencer might be adopted, aria's mommy's boyfriend keeps groping her, and hannah's daddy hates her, since she told everyone that kate had herpes.emily's fine, but something bad will undoubtedly happen to her too.
The addicting thing about this series is the mystery and unpredictability of it all!
Is it Jason?This series is so painful sometimes to read, the way Spencer and Hanna get treated by their families.
The golden child is Hanna's stepsister Kate, who is so evil that if she was my step sister I would have thrown my cleats at her.
She pretends to befriend Hanna, and when Hanna tries to frame her the innocent act works for the parents and Hanna gets punished and Kate doesn't.
Spencer's parents don't really care about her.
And they're always busy lauding Spencer's sister, Melissa.
Wicked (Pretty Little Liars #5), Sara Shepard
The series is about a girl named Ali, who gets murdered.
Her four best friends start to get weird text messages from some mysterious person named "A."In the forth book, "A" is revealed, and killed, but then in this book they start receiving more messages from her, meaning that she wasn't who they thought she was.
In the 4th book, they also were sure they knew who killed Ali, but it turns out they were very, very wrong.
In this book, Ali's real murderer ends up killing the person they thought killed her in the first place.
Ugh, these books are like my favorite flavor of ice cream.
Although I have to give points to Sara Shepard and Alloy Entertainment for keeping readers like me on a hook.
Anyways, this is the fifth book in the Pretty Little Liars series.
If you haven't read the others in order then I strongly suggest you to put this one down and pick those up.
You'll just ruin it for yourself by reading them out of order.
These books will particularly interest teen girls.
It's like a Gossip Girl murder story, but so much better at the same time.
I love the Pretty Little Liars series and I flew through this book.
This book is clearly setting things up for this second arc. It is not as tense or exciting as some of the previous books though that ending definitely made things interesting!
Care to guess which installment this little snippet is about?
While reading Wicked, I felt like I was stuck some sort of weird worm-hole, as if Wicked is restarting the series from book one and starting all over again.
This tired story line is getting old, and while Shepard does an adequate job keeping readers in suspense, the overall plot is BORING.
And if I have to read the words "Gucci", "Paris," or "Marc Jacobs" one more time, I'll scream.The Worse News: I can't just drop a plot mid-series.
Damn you, Shepard and your evil scheme to drag this series on and on!
I guess I better stock up on some throat-drops.
This may be an unpopular opinion, but I was not crazy about this book. I felt that nothing actually happened and it built up to basically the last chapter. The end of the last chapter. It also seemed to have PLL TV dream logic and make little sense. Hanna seems like a terrible person in the book, and she is my favorite liar. I just do not know about continuing the book series. I am sure I will... eventually... but I am not jumping to it right now. It was okay, but nothing to write home about.
yaaaaa que alguien me diga el final de esto 😐
It's annoyed how stupid they are. It seems like they don't think anything at all, specially Hanna... Oh god she is the worst of them.
Book five in the Pretty Little Liars seriesWhen is Ezra coming back?
Ali had a twin.
Or it's possible, Ali's alive and the twin is the one dead.
You never know.
But after all the statement was natural-born grandchild.
It's likely she wasn't naturally conceived?
If her grandma wasn't sugary and nice, she probably was corrupted by money.
She's just as bad as Ali. I can see why they were best friends.
That's obvious, but to tell everyone she has herpes is wrong.
I know Mona screwed her over, but it's time she realized Mona only ever used her.
This was an okay story, but I’d say it’s my least favourite of the series so far.We had some new characters in this story, including Hanna’s step-sister Kate, who turned out to be a real girl-dog, and a new love interest for Aria, who also turned out to have some strange ideas when it came to family relations.The storyline seemed to have moved on a bit from the ‘A’ business, but then seemed to fall back on it as the story progressed.
I felt that the way the story progressed in this book was a bit of a poor imitation of the previous books, and I even found my attention wavering at points.The ending did hold a few surprises, and ruled out once and for all one person who could have been bringing A back from the dead.
3.5 stars!Well...I can definitely see what people mean about it getting a little repetitive, much like the tv show. And I just realized there are still 10 more books I need to get through...shit. I don't know how much of "he did it...no she did it..." i can go through without wanting to punch someone.
3.5/5Otro libro más de la saga Pequeñas mentirosas. La verdad es que no espero una maravilla de estos libros. Me gustan porque se leen rápido y son muy entretenidos. Este ha estado bien pero otros han estado mejor.
Here's the thing about PLL books, they are the perfect weekend read and then when you think "I'm not going to read the next one", she hits you with a cliffhanger.
Based on some accidental/potential spoilers from a friend and hints in the book, I'm entertaining the possibility that the author is going to chalk it all up to some secret evil Ali twin.
Ian saw another blonde in the clearing with Ali, and until the author starts dropping hints about another blonde in town I'm going with the evil-twin-that-lives-in-the-basement theory.
I've suspected Ezra, Lucas, Mona, Jenna, Spencer, Maya, Melissa and Ian, and I think now I'm adding Jason and an evil basement dwelling twin to that list.
As far as Ali's killer goes, I think this book also presents 2 options: Jason and Lucas.
It finally feels like the characters are growing up. As for the plot; it's so much more twisted than the show. A lot more dramatic shit happens. I love how Sara Shepard always weaves an event from the past into the current lives of the girls. It resurfaces memories of Ali and reveals things about the girls and other possible suspect. It also immortalizes Ali in some ways. It's like an endless back to back, which is clever for hiding the real A or the real killer.
So this book kinda drove my crazy. I feel like Hanna is seriously a huge drama queen. She thinks too much about what other people think and she is way too crazy -she truly believes everyone is out to get her. Drives me nuts, stop stressing you don't need to be the most popular. I don't think Ian had anything to do with Ali's death - he is innocent.
Ian Thomas is in jail awaiting trial and the girls are able to relax and return to their lives.
Hanna, Spencer, Emily, and Aria slowly try to settle back into their normal lives.
Hanna is working through the trauma of learning that her best friend tried to kill her.
But when Ian is released on bail to attend to his dying mother, the mysterious text messages start again.
Each girl receives messages that are more haunting than the ones before Ian was arrested.
As the trial looms nearer, the girls are again thrust together trying to piece together the life that was Alison DiLaurentis.
The entire book feels like filler.
It really emphasizes the feeling that this series has told this same story before.
When the same things happen to characters over and over again, it just isn't trashy fun anymore.There are still some aspects of the story that I liked much more than the previous book, earning this two stars.
Unlike the previous book, we did not start this book with a lot of exciting plot developments, only for them to be ignored.
At the end of the previous book, it looked like Hanna should have an interesting story for this book.
Again, Aria's story centers around her relationship with an older man.
We got to have a little insight on why she supposedly did those things to Hanna in the past yet I still think she's quite a dodgy character.As for the whole 'adoption' thing, I think it was a twist that was woven in very well and left me asking why I hadn't guessed it before.
There will always be a chance of them finding it out from someone else, and that is never a good thing.In conclusion, I loved Wicked and thought it was an important addition to the never-ending series:))
