https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6114607-the-midwife
The Midwife is the memoir of Jennifer Worth (“Jenny”) and her experiences in the East End Slums of post-war London.
She never pretends that the East End was anything other than what it was: a hard place to live where people still found things worth living for.
She teaches us to appreciate "Cockneys" and there is even an appendix so we can read Cockney and understand what they are saying :) As much as this book is about being a midwife, I also think it stands well as a cultural study of a group of people that no longer exist in the same sense.The third thing is the art of midwifery itself and her journey as a midwife.
I enjoy reading the cockney dialect and learning English terms for things but these ten dollar words look like trying too hard, and they're annoying.I realize Ms. Worth is a product of her time and I am trying very hard to not judge her unfairly using my time and culture as a standard.
In a passage describing how married women were "free" to cheat on their husbands because a pregnancy wouldn't be as difficult as for a single woman, Worth writes:I have often felt that the situation is loaded against men.
You wouldn't think that the world of the 50s was so different as it is now, but this depiction of the 50s, of bombed-out London, health care where antibiotics were the new miracle drug and children played safely in the streets because there were no cars is truly another world.
This, though, is also the story of a young nurse living in and operating from an inner city convent of nuns dedicated to midwifery, good cooking, the odd glass of wine and full of the most eccentric characters.
Its a wonderful book, history, memoir and a full of cockney humour.
A sweet and wrinkled baby is handed to the parents.* But "Call the Midwife" (which is also the name of the 2012 BBC series based on the books; the original title was just "The Midwife") was thankfully more than just a collection of childbirth stories.
Jennifer Worth moved into a convent and became a midwife in the slums of London's East End, and she had good stories about the women she met and the trials of daily life for the lower classes.
*Worth wrote a passage about babies that has stayed with me weeks after I first read it: "The helplessness of the newborn human infant has always made an impression on me.
You are told astounding stories about the author's years working as a midwife at the Nonnatus House Convent in the Docklands during the 1950s.
You meet the wonderful Sister Monica Joan, a somewhat "crazy" ninety year-old nun, Conchita Warren who will give birth to both her twenty-forth and twenty-fifth child, the latter premature of only 28 weeks gestation, weighing less than two pounds, born during a thick London smog.
You come to understand the lives of the women of the East End. I promise, you will laugh and cry.The structure of the book is anecdotal, but even I who dislikes short stories, was in no way disappointed.
It was an incredible read that was marred by an obscenely disgusting chapter right smack dab in the middle that made me have to question whether I should continue or not.
Granted this was based on real life experiences and memoirs of this woman, but the obscene part was taken too far and had little to do with the overall purpose of the book being women having babies/ motherhood.
The scene involved a woman getting taken into prostitution and a show girl and although these were real people this midwife encountered I don't think the description needed to contain all the colorful details- just enough to make the reader pity the girl's plight.
There are so many incredible stories in this memoir by Jennifer Worth that it is difficult to pick a favorite, but I loved Chummy with her big ole heart, old-fashioned bicycle and her hero Jack who, as you will see, did become important in his day.
Mary's story of prostitution is sad and touching, but Mrs. Jenkin's surrender to the workhouse is just beyond words.While most residents of the war torn Dockland's lived in squalor with detestable sanitation conditions and little hope (OMG the bomb site dump), there is still a nice mix of happy, and funny stories here too.
My sister in law let me borrow the five books -- Call the Midwife, Farewell to East End, In the Midst of Life, Shadows of the Workhouse and Letters to the Midwife -- because I enjoy the PBS television show.
I started looking at my shelves....seeing all the lovely books I had intended to read....some have been on my shelves for years waiting for their chance!
Since I borrowed the series by Jennifer Worth, I decided Call the Midwife would be first!
The book has tales about problem deliveries, dealing with STDs, vermin and other concerns, domestic violence, large families and antiquated opinions about childbirth and women.
I decided to read this book because I recently watched the BBC/PBS show "Call the Midwife", which is based on the memoirs by Jennifer Worth.
I enjoyed the subplot about Jenny discovering a profound faith in God (though I found her a little unrevealing about other aspects of herself-- who is this man she loved so much?).
I did enjoy the book, and I am interested in reading the other two-- but I didn't fall in love with it like the TV series.**Disclaimer** I have seen many other reviews mention this and I will too.
If you read that chapter just be forewarned that that scene is in there.
Oh, that I could have six stars to give.
Having originally been smitten with this wonderful British TV series, I am now head over heels in love with the book.
I must get my book club to read this.One of my favorite chapters is about a friendship between Chummy and an adolescent boy.
The premature baby chapter is another beautiful story, but honestly, I love them all.Two areas which are explored much more deeply and disturbingly in the book are prostitutes and workhouses.A profoundly moving book that can be placed alongside the finest of contemporary memoirs such as Angela's Ashes and The Glass Castle.
After watching the first two seasons of Call the Midwife which I love, love, love ( I especially adore Chummy) I wanted to know more about Jennifer Worth's life so I picked up this novel, the first in a series of three.
While some of the characters that I found endearing like Chummy and Jimmy are only briefly mentioned in the book they get a much expounded upon life in the television series.
It is very enjoyable to watch the talented actresses bring to life the memorable people and stories in the book.
This was a wonderful memoir of a young woman's new life into the midwifery world. It is quite candid in its approach to midwifery, the struggles of women (mostly the poor), and dawn of modern medicine. It is hard to believe that there were never maternity wards in hospitals until the 1950's. Birth control, or rather the lack of it, was such a dilemma for women who were single, overworked, poor, ill, and/or exhausted.
I'm really glad I picked it up because it turned out to be a fascinating, heartbreaking, and lovely read.Random thoughts:-Summary: Jennifer Worth's memoirs of her time as a midwife in the East End of London in the 1950s.
There's stories of herself, her patients, and the nuns she lives and works with… And they're all great.-I really enjoyed Jenny's narration, she wasn't particularly nice or likeable but she was engaging and honest.
It was rather amazing the range of people she met whilst working in the East End, they all had such different stories.
The book is sprinkled with tired old saws about men, women, and their relationships.
I found her observations about womanhood and motherhood especially disappointing; her position on the latter is unmitigated sunshine, happiness and womanly fulfillment, which is rather shocking coming from a midwife in an area where, due to their lack of power in relationships and access to contraceptive measures, many women had many more children than they wanted or could afford.
A lot of other reviewers really seemed to dislike the sex scene in the vignette on prostitution, but I didn't think it was out of place (though it was disturbing); she is honest about the conditions of life in that time and place, and coerced prostitution was part of that.
by Andrea Renee CoxWhile I enjoyed the insight into the lives of several midwives during the 1950s, I was disappointed that there were so many inappropriate things in this book.
Nudity, expletives, crude talk, graphic sexual content, alcohol, tobacco usage, etc.
really dampened my enjoyment of this book.
I also didn't appreciate that the author believed older women should be allowed to be crass and rude simply because they'd lived a long life.
Since when does longevity grant anyone the right to belittle or degrade other people?
In Titus 2, older women are advised to "be reverent in behavior...
I alternated between wishing I'd had this kind of care and thanking God I hadn't.
Tę książkę pochłonęłam w kilka dni.
Napisana prostym, bezpretensjonalnym i autentycznym językiem wciąga czytelnika od pierwszych stron.
Jennifer Worth opowiada o swoich pierwszych krokach w zawodzie położnej.
Szlify zdobywała pod okiem zakonnic z Domu Św.
Pocz ątkowo spodziewałam się szczegółowych opisów porodów oraz praktyki i nauki autorki, ale ta książka to coś więcej.Worth opisuje oczywiście porody - wszystkie odbywają się w domu i są bardzo różne: niektóre proste i bezproblemowe, inne skomplikowane.
Podczas wszystkich zaskakuje spokój sióstr, które towarzyszą rodzącym w roli położnych.
Nie dążą do przyspieszania, medykalizacji, strasu, roztaczają spokój, pewność i poczucie fachowej opieki.Ciąg dalszy: http://przeczytalamksiazke.blogspot.p...
Donne non più costrette ad un ciclo di gravidanze infinite ma finalmente libere, per la prima volta nella storia, di essere esattamente come gli uomini e fare sesso per puro piacere.Le levatrici instancabili emblema di questo romanzo, continuarono dedicando instancabilmente la propria vita al lavoro, non solo per le gravidanze ma anche per le epidemie di colera, tifo e polio e la fresca verve di Jennifer Worth rende “Chiamate la levatrice” un delizioso spaccato di un Paese in pieno sviluppo sociale e riformistico, pieno di sentimento ed empatia per la vita, da tenere saldamente stretto sul cuore.
I'm a sucker for babies, birth stories, and midwives tales, so I was all set to love this.
I found it kind of lacking in coherence, though.
Some of the stories kind of stood alone, some connected, and there was not much arc connecting the whole book.
Some of the stories are actually really difficult to read, because they involve SO much trauma and pain and humans being inhumane to each other.
I suppose the British class system is on full display in this book, but ultimately not really challenged at all.
I already knew all the beautiful people in the book before I started.
Many Cockney speech forms--idioms, grammar and syntax--which today are considered flawed, are, in fact, very ancient speech forms that can be traced back to Tudor times.Conchita and Len and their extremely premature baby (their 25th child) - this story about did me in.
It means someone who is a fool to the ways of the world, but wise to the ways of God. I think that Ted, from the moment he saw the baby, knew that he could not possibly be the father.

This book should come with a warning.
I would hate for a 14 year old girl interested in midwifery to read this.
I have read a lot of midwife memoirs, and they were nothing like this.
The rape of children, the systematic perversion of girls, detailed graphic public sex of a prostitute and multiple men.
If this book were made into a movie, it would be porn.
I got a little more than halfway through and stopped reading, so I don't know what happens in the second half of the book.
I wish I had stopped reading earlier.
So, there's my warning.
Man patika. Stāsts par Londonas nabadzīgo daļu - Īstendu 20.gs. 50.gadu beigās. Un tā nav Londonas nabadzība mūsdienu izpratnē, bet tāda skarba dzīve graustos vēl pārdesmit gadus pēc kara, mazos un pārapdzīvotos dzīvokļos, kur grūti ievērot personisko higiēnu. Tā ir vienkāršo doku strādnieku pasaule, kurā sievas iznēsā un dzemdē bērnus apstākļos, kas ir ļoti tālu no mūsdienu izpratnes par mātes un bērna aprūpi. Galvenā stāstniece ir jauna vecmāte, kas strādā klostera paspārnē, un viņa pieredz gan jaukus, gan sāpīgus brīžus.
Nel 2009, due anni prima di morire, la levatrice e infermiera Jennifer Worth, completa la trilogia sui suoi giorni e sulle sue notti degli anni Cinquanta, nell’allora inguardabile East Side di Londra. Questa è la prima raccolta di memorie. Assordante, spassoso, delicato, lancinante. Attualizzabile. Soprattutto.Lo Spirito risalta in controluce: “comunque lo si chiamasse”.
Worth and I must not read the same books.Worth has also said that her books were intended to be the midwives’ version of James Herriot, and his influence is clear in the episodic structure of her memoir, relating her experiences as a nurse in London’s poor East End in the 1950s.
She shares her experiences but little of her feelings, and since the episodes seem to be organized more topically than chronologically, reading the book feels much more like having an older person tell you stories than vicariously experiencing them with her.Worth does have interesting stories, which are mostly bite-sized and make for easy reading.
I borrowed it from a friend while in Dublin back in April thinking it may make for a nice read over the summer - I then found my flight back to the US cancelled (volcano) and myself slightly stranded at a hotel for three days.
Jennifer's writing was great; the story of her life, her work in East London as a midwife were so enjoyable to read & learn about.
The nuns at the convent, her experiences living there and working with them - the way she brings their personalities to life along w/ women like Mary and Conchita - it was so easy to be drawn in and captured by it all.
My mother is a midwife so none of the births or medical terms and language bothered me, then came the chapter about prostitution.
I have watched the series so I knew there was a story with a young Irish girl who was trapped by greedy, powerful men in a life of prostitution and Jenny helps her escape.
If you simply skip two chapters you will miss out on a very graphic description of sexual acts preformed by one prostitute.
If you skip the bit about the prostitutes there are no other sexual scenes and Jenny talks about the morality of the time and how closely guarded a woman's virtue was.
My mom grew up "working class" in London, in an upstairs flat in a terraced house, one of 6 children who lived.
The book describes a London still struggling to recover from war.
My mom escaped London through ballroom dancing and marrying my dad.
I was still delivered by the nuns, in a private nursing home in Beaconsfield.
The book reminded me of the resilience of Londoners who 15 years earlier were still at war, and especially of my mom who escaped the poverty and deprivation of London.
I enjoyed this book, but I sort of wanted more.
She also kept hinting about some love of her life that hadn't worked out-- things like that tend to annoy me, especially in a memoir.
None of this skirting the issue business!What might have made up for any lack in this book was definitely the story of the English man and his Spanish wife.
Worth delivered her 24th and 25th (!!!!!!!!) babies-- and both stories absolutely blew me away-- it's so nice to read about a happy and loving family, whatever the size or circumstances!
Can't believe what hard lives many of these people lived.
Such an interesting book, chronicling the life of one Midwife in the 1950's in the East End of London.
Dockworkers and their families living in tenements, woman having baby after baby.
Another book that makes one glad they live in this period of time.
These woman had it so hard, trying to feed their families with no indoor plumbing or water and very little money.
Anyway really glad to have read this, to truly appreciate the sisters and midwives who gave these poor people medical attention, they were truly angels of mercy.
