https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/442347.The_Cereal_Murders
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to The Cereal Murders, the third book in the "Goldy Bear Culinary" mystery series, published in 1993 and written by Diane Mott Davidson. I'm a fan of this series, enjoying the charming antics of the cozy little town, the delicious-sounding recipes and the mystery fun each book includes. Another good installment in the series, it falls somewhere in the middle range of best and worst, nothing to extraordinary but nothing much of fault.Focused on the intensity of college
3 of 5 stars to The Cereal Murders, the third book in the "Goldy Bear Culinary" mystery series, published in 1993 and written by Diane Mott Davidson.
I'm a fan of this series, enjoying the charming antics of the cozy little town, the delicious-sounding recipes and the mystery fun each book includes.
Another good installment in the series, it falls somewhere in the middle range of best and worst, nothing to extraordinary but nothing much of fault.Focused on the intensity of college preparation, the students at Elk Prep, where Goldy's son, Arch, goes to school, are preparing for college.
Goldy's sort of adopted son, Julian, is a senior there and is suddenly suspected when the school valedictorian is found murdered at a dinner.
a little paragraph that just made me so happy!!
from page 38"He reached into the front pocket of his sweatshirt and pulled the rock out.
So much for fingerprints.
But the rock was tennis-ball-size and jagged.
It probably wouldn't have held a print anyway."As a real life CSI, it gets old when books/movies/tv shows all indicate that prints CAN and ARE pulled off everything from glass to oranges to rocks.
In real life, it just doesn't happen.
Nice to see it in a book :-)Another win for the Goldy series.
Just a good little mystery, and I didn't see the ending coming.
There is a fine line between sarcasm and bitchy, Goldie crosses the line too often. It was hard to get into the mystery when I was weary of all her griping. None of the characters grabbed me, but the story was still interesting.  We have an exclusive school of rich children with parents ready to do whatever it takes to get their offspring into the best colleges. From bribes to murder and everything in between.  So even though I didn’t like the heroine and felt that the side characters never fleshed out, the story was interesting.
Caterer Goldy Bear gets caught up in the murder of a high school student who attends Elk Park Prep School. While busily catering for friends and acquaintances in the prep school/town circle, she manages to assist friend/homicide inspector Tom Schulz in the investigation. Interesting characters make this a fun read with recipes interspersed throughout the text.
I wished I liked Goldy as a character better. She tends to grate on my nerves.
Though this book suffered from a slow start, it soon sped up and became an entertaining read that I couldn't wait to finish,I had read the last book in this series in December of last year, so it took me a while to get reaquainted with the characters, but after I warmed up to them they were fun!
I especially loved reading more about the school Julian and Arch go to and I thought the author portrayed the cut-throat way academics are in some schools wonderfully.The mystery was good, there was a couple of abstract clues through the book that you don't pick up on until the end and the killer took me by surprise.Overall a very enjoyable read.
#3 in the Goldy Bear Culinary Mystery seriesThis series is getting better and better.
It also included some romance (with Tom Schultz), some chick lit (with Julian's and Arch's school issues), as well as foodie fiction.
I love hearing about Goldy's menus and catering jobs--Davidson makes it seem so fun and casual while still being very professional.
This time Goldy is involved with a murder of a student at the school, with everyone getting intense about SAT's and college applications.
Barbara Rosenblatt really does an excellent job voicing Goldy, and Schulz has a nice low sexy drawl too.
I have read most of this series, so was glad to see on my list that I have a few I have missed and can still read for the first time. Goldy Bear, caterer extraordinaire, never fails to entertain.....in so many ways! This is a very good series, a favorite of mine, with great characters and plots that you have to work hard at to figure out before the "bad guy" is revealed. That is not always easy, which is a plus to me!
Engaging mysteries, and fun recipes! The only thing I don't like about these books are her relationship with her son, and the fact that characters who are considered "good friends" seem to appear and disappear at random! Otherwise I recommend them, they definitely suck you in.
reread
I listened to the audiobook. The story is well written and the narrator for this audio version makes it very entertaining.
Not a bad series mystery, and the recipes are pretty good for the recipe-mystery publishing craze, but even Barbara Rosenblat couldn’t make me appreciate a book with characters so sharply Good or Evil. A relic of its time, with a topic (the tyranny of grades and testing) that has only gotten worse since its publication.
When Denver caterer Goldy Bear takes on a catering job at her son's school she has no idea whats in store for her.
It comes as a surprise to discover how worried the Seniors at Elk Park Prep School are about their grade point averages.
Goldy decides to do some investigating on her own after she happens on to the body of a murdered teacher during another catering job at the school.
She soon discovers that not only are spats breaking out among the parents but some have been bribing teachers and college admissions representatives.To further complicate matters, someone is playing dangerous pranks on her family.
I think that was a good summary of the story.
The valedictorian is found murdered on the night of the first college advisory meeting, which Goldy caters.
Goldy goes among them, as she caters all their events, but she is not quite of them, which gives her the opportunity to observe and critique.
She shows them up to be silly and selfish, and I enjoyed that wry voice more than the action of the murder mystery.
But still, would one of these people, even a silly and selfish person, actually kill to get into a top college?
This book is not my usual genre so I didn't expect to like it at all.
I didn't enjoy the first chapter but I think it was because I didn't know what to expect and I'm not used to reading fiction.
I must tell you that I do not like suspense and it drives me crazy, so it should come as no surprise that I didn't like the climax of the book and I couldn't wait for that part to get over and find out who the culprit was.
I couldn't understand why a book that was pretty much well written would fall at the end.
Enjoyed it. Can't wait to try a few of the recipes.Was horribly annoyed by most of the parents, but then that could be because I didn't experience them at all in my own final years of High School.The character of Audrey Coopersmith was the most annoying character in the entire book. If she had been my parent, I would have disowned her.Actually none of the secondary characters were likable in any regard. I felt no sympathy or empathy for any of them.I do look forward to reading the next one.
I especially love this author's cozy mysteries because they're set up in our mountains where I like to pretend I live, but don't, due to my terror of mountainous snow-driving. This one was extra fun because parts of it took place here in Denver at The Tattered Cover bookstore, a beloved institution. In fact, I enjoyed that aspect so much that I had to go back there and buy books.
I have read some of the later books in this series and decided to start at the beginning to have a better understanding of how things have evolved over time. This is book 3. The narrator is Goldie, a caterer. These are light mysteries filled with wonderful descriptions of food. A cozy listen.
I've read several of Goldy's murder-mystery books and though I always try to figure out who-did-it, the end is a surprise to me! I've been close in guessing, one day I might get it! Thanks to these books I know I would never be in catering, seems like way too much work.
Nice audio narration. I like the down to earth personality of Goldie. 3.5 stars. I could have done without her love life. Did she have to keep telling us that it had been awhile since she had sex and she liked it? She's engaged now so in the next book maybe she'll lay off on it. I like her though
Book #45 for 2011 - another delicious murder mystery starring Goldy the caterer!
Thses books are usually clean, but this one does have some swearing in it. I guess because the plot revolves around teenagers.
2nd time through the seriesStill loving it!
Apparently even high-class prep schools are not immune from crime. But to murder the valedictorian? Goldy Bear, caterer and sleuth, is on the job.
I really enjoyed this book from her series. I breezed right through it. I recommend it!
A fun series ready by Barbara Rosenblatt, which is always a treat.Goldilocks Catering, where everything is just right....Goldie is forever in the wrong place at the wrong time but insists on helping the Sheriff's department and her boyfriend unravel the mystery...."is catering a dinner at the exclusive Elk Park Preparatory School.
At the end of the evening, a horrified Goldy discovers the school valedictorian's battered body heaped in the snow.
Barbara Rosenblat's full-bodied and witty reading, Ms. Mott's deliciously fast-paced plot, and her heroine's recipes for such enticing delights as Sugar Plum Cake and Sweetheart Sandwiches leave the reader satisfied, yet hoping for more."
I give this book two and a half stars.
The half for the humor.
I had heard so much about this author and her many books.
I got this book at a discounted price and thought that would be a great way to start reading her series.
There was some humorous writing in this book but it didn't make up for the whole story.
I have read about 100 cozy mysteries in the last six months by many unknown authors.
I might try again if one came available discounted but there are others I would rather read.
Diane Mott Davidson continues her very enjoyable Goldy catering mystery series with a high stakes episode revolving around college entrance stress and the corresponding expectations between parents, their children, and other school peers. Perhaps the most enjoyable aspect of the novel for me this time was the primary role that the beloved Denver independent bookstore The Tattered Cover played in the plot. Barbara Rosenblat is absolutely excellent, and as a narrator deftly encompasses all of the salty wit that Goldy embodies.
Rereading the Goldy Bear mysteries that I dropped several years ago.
I think there are 17 in the series now!
Entertaining, easy mystery stories with mouth-watering recipes, set in Colorado, USA.
This is No. 3; I have a long way to go.
Luckily, they are very easy to read.* * * * *Not my favorite Goldy novel.
And Goldy's (at this time) boyfriend Schulz took her home after an emergency and with no prior preparation, made homemade pasta??
Maybe this is where I quit reading the series before.
Goldy can not seem to stay out of trouble. Rich people who think they can run over the little people, parents who will do anything so their precious child can get ahead , throw in two murdered people (which Goldy finds) and one has the recipe for an outstanding book.. This time the location is the prep school that Julian (her boarder) and son attend. I am so glad that Julian played a important role in this book. I love the camaraderie between Arch and Julian
