https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1106989.Prelude_to_Space
There's really not much plot at all, and it's mostly interesting as a historical artefact, being a speculation of space travel before actual space travel ever happened. Still, the enthusiasm and optimism (though sadly misplaced, as history has shown) is infectious.
It is clearly a creative summation of Clarke’s ideas of how it could be, although it is different to what really happened.“You Americans have always been a bit conservative about space flight, and didn’t take it seriously until several years after us.”In Clarke’s book the research and development is not achieved by government funding but by private enterprise, and mainly European and Commonwealth participation at that.
Clarke’s novel The Sands of Mars, also published in 1952, is perhaps more like Galileo.As much as I enjoyed it, Prelude is a lesser work when regarded in the context of Clarke’s full bibliography, and yet it is a reflection of the time it was written – an optimistic, forward-looking treatise of the Space Age and how the future could be.
Clarke (1917 – 2008) and was published in 1951 in the series of Galaxy Science Fiction novels.
According to the introduction which he wrote, Clarke wrote the entire novel in just 20 days, but it took a while to get it published even though he was a successful writer of short fiction.
The story is about the first manned mission to the moon.
Clarke believed that the rocket would be nuclear powered, and that the mission would be one supported by many nations, and in particular England, with Australia being the launch site due to the vast unpopulated areas in the interior.
The only character development occurs when our skeptical historian slowly becomes convinced during his assignment that landing a man on the moon is, in fact, feasible and exciting.There is almost no tension in the story save for one of the astronauts worrying about his pregnant wife.
Instead, the narrative merely follows Alexson as he chronicles the events around him.Much of the book is comprised of info dumps ranging from the backgrounds of some of the characters (as if Clarke just wanted to get that out of the way in order to focus on the technology) to engineering specifications about the Prometheus and space flight in general.
Un juvenlie che più juvenile non si può.
Bisogna riconoscere che questo romanzo d'esordio di Arthur Clarke (più o meno contemporaneo a The Sands of Mars) non ha retto benissimo al peso degli anni.
Per varie ragioni, in primis percè già allora era nato più come opera "divulgativa" che come vero e proprio romanzo.
Ma rimane un romanzo che nel 2014 vale la pena di leggere solo per curiosità accademica, e per apprezzare ancora di più quanto poi Clarke si sia evoluto come romanziere.
Non aiuta sicuramente nemmeno la traduzione quasi "vittoriana" che si ritrova in quest'edizione Urania "vintage".
70 years after Clarke wrote Prelude to Space, I finally have read it. Of course, the story seems dated, after all, it was written more than 20 years before the first real moon landing, 3 years before I was born. But all in all a good story, and as Clarke admits in the preface to the 1970 edition I have, a prediction of the future and propaganda for space travel. I enjoyed the book tremendously.
Clarke's first novel is a wonderful nostalgia trip to the golden age of science fiction.Although aspects of his narrative were outpaced by actual events,PRELUDE TO SPACE was and is a mature and plausible depiction of first flight to the Moon.Clarke's extrapolations are ingenius as always,and his technological optimism is contagius.P.S.A fine tribute to this novel can be found in Stephen Baxter's Hugo nominated novelette MOON SIX.
Published in the early 1950s, this short novel imagines what it would be like to fly to the moon. However, it sees the lunar landing as simply a prelude, instead of the dead end it has become. Very interesting.
Un romanzo datato ed ingenuo. Ben lontano dalla potenza immaginifica di 2001.In ogni caso una gradevole lettura che ancora una volta stuzzica la nostra fascinazione per le stelle e il cosmo.
Specifically, to show in meticulous detail that space travel was no longer the realm of science fiction, but of practical engineering.My speculation: when Clarke was a boy, like all boys of his time, he was exposed to penny periodicals of the "Boy's Own Thrilling Ripping Yarns" type.
These magazines, according to George Orwell's insightful essay, were written to prepare young British boys for their rightfully deserved task of running an empire.
It's my considered opinion that Clarke wrote this book to convince the next generation that they rightfully deserved the planets.
I had no idea what to expect from this short novella, but I was blown away by its ability to probe into the motivations and dreams of mankind, from our earliest explorations to our dreams of populating the stars.
The fictional path to mankinds first journey to the moon is brilliantly chronicled with a focus on the humanitarian and existential reasons.
The grandeur, depth and scope of this global project feels so much more real and admirable than what I've learned about the actual moon landing.
Излязъл изпод писалката му, през вече далечната 1947г., това е първият написан, но не и първият му издаден, роман.
Само две години след края на "Човешко безумие" 2.0, повествованието блика от така характерната за Кларк амалгама от меланхолия и оптимизъм за бъднините на вида ни.
Тук са и присъщите за романите му учени и инженери, както и хората, които, дали от незнание, безумие или сляпа вяра, полагат безплодни усилия, в опит да спрат вятъра на промяната.
Книгата описва приготовленията около първия полет до Луната (21 години преди реалното му осъществяване) и завършва с изстрелването на кораба "Прометей" към естествения ни спътник.
Could be titled "Prelude to Arthur C. Clarke Learning How to Write a Novel." As many reviewers have stated, there isn't much of a plot here, and characterization was never a Clarke strength. For a novel written in 1947 (Clarke's first), this look at a first manned mission to the moon is scientifically well ahead of its time, especially if one looks at the fanciful SF works written in the 40's, and I like its theme of humanity's need to keep exploring or we'll vanish. But I also liked that it was only 179 pages.
Not Mr. Clarke’s finest unfortunately. Historically interesting, but doesn’t carry the luster it must have long ago before space travel was a reality. Also, not much of a plot and no characters to care about. Overall he phallic cover is the most memorable part. I really had to force myself to finish it.
Clarke's books seem to be focused on the time just before the climax of the plot. It's an awkward place to end books because I finish his books feeling frustrated and despondent.It's like he tried very hard to avoid the science in the science fiction and I'm usually left wondering what the book was indeed about.
An early Arthur C. Clarke sf novel written in the late 1940's, in which he imagines how the first voyage in space came about. Interesting to read as a comparison to how the actual historical events really happened.
It doesn't matter whether the book was written way before the trip to the Moon was even thought that Arthur C. Clarke manages to grasp your attention all the way through the book.
This is just what I expected from ACC's second novel. It focuses on science and ideas, not characters, all with a sprinkling of earnest, intelligent poetic moments.
But it isn't the typical science fiction novel, set in the far future, when space travel is taken for granted.
But if you agree with the message, you might enjoy this.On a practical note, Clarke provides a "Post-Apollo" preface, written in 1975, that discusses the book's "predictions." It's a funny one, too, in that, though he got so much wrong the first time around, he then proceeds to get it all wrong again, when he predicts that serious space-flight is only a decade or two away.
If only.In an amusing aside, he refers to a quotation against space flight by C.S. Lewis which he included in the book.
I remember a dull story about that ends abruptly with a Plutonium powered rocket launched from Australia.
A bunch of speculation was way off, like a Plutonium powered rocket that can't be inspected and is so toxic no one can go near it for decades after launch.
And that era was all about the golden possibilities free nuclear energy would bring, so a Plutonium powered rocket isn't the craziest of ideas, even if it seems laughably naive in retrospect.But what really struck me was how much of the political drama and intrigue Clark was able to capture over a decade before Sputnik -- esp.
Clarke was, thus, among the first proponents of space exploration in the wake of WWII, and this novel is equal parts entertainment, education, and propaganda.
Another portion of the narrative parallels this, as Alexson's passion for the project grows in proportion to his understanding of the science and the personalities behind it.Aside from a brief section dealing with an attempted sabotage of the launch, and the tension between the five astronauts in training (as only three will be chosen, in the end, to make the journey), there is not much by way of conflict.
In his attempt to educate and, thus, ignite the passions of the public at large, Clarke did a great service to a pursuit which had not yet even reached its infancy.
Con lo stesso stile avvincente, la stessa precisione di scienziato, Arthur Clarke ci narra ora come gli esseri umani si preparino al primo volo nello spazio: destinazione Luna.
La Terra era grande abbastanza per gli uomini dei giorni della diligenza e della nave a vela, ma ora che possiamo farne il giro in poche ore è diventata troppo piccola...
E questa conquista è possibile, perchè gli uomini hanno l'eredità del sapere che conquistarono dalla loro comparsa sulla Terra ad oggi.
Space travel as imagined by ACC in the 50's was a far different thing than what actually occurred.
For myself, I think I would prefer Clarke's "reality" to that of today.
Great Britain was a serious world power, particularly in space travel; there was no "space race" per se--countries actually cooperated.
There was genuine enthusiasm, interest, fascination with the future--all things that to me are now lacking in life, as well as the space program.As to the book itself, it is of course dated.
The book itself is written with Clarke's usual style and care--sometimes a little wordy, but always thoughtful.
Our perspective into this world is Dirk Alexson, an historian sent from the University of Chicago to write the first draft of history for this pivotal moment in Human affairs.Looking back it seems impossibly naive, but as Clarke points out in his post-Apollo preface, until America was frightened out of complacency by the "beep, beep beep" signal from Sputnik 1, it didn't have any real ambitions for space and Britain's Interplanetary Society was at the forefront of space exploration.Clarke gets a lot wrong but somehow I'd still like to live in his world, where a reusable nuclear-powered craft is launched on a high-speed acceleration track in the Australian desert to the chimes of Big Ben and the superpowers work with the other nations of the world towards a new frontier purely for the joys of exploration and science rather than national interest.
Very well written; I see why Arthur C.
Clarke was such a big deal in the field of sci-fi writing in those days.
Back then, the common wisdom was apparently that in some cases (excavating huge canals, interplanetary manned space flights, etc.) the difficulties of dealing with radiation were well worth it.
But nowadays, few think that way - the common wisdom nowadays seems to be that dealing with the radiation is too much trouble no matter what, and except for a few special cases (war, unmanned long-lived interplanetary exploration satellites, electricity generation fallback) atomic power is of no use.
This book was written in 1947 when Clarke was on his summer holiday from King's College.
It's an interesting glimpse to see what people thought the future would be like, and what was thought to inspire the rocket engineers of the future.
The problem as it's more propaganda than novel there is no real characterisation, the main character is there for people to explain things too.
The other HUGE problem with this book is that there is not one woman in the whole thing!
I would have thought that Clarke, hoping to inspire people, would have thought to encourage women too!
...Sixty-five years after it was written Prelude to Space is badly dated in just about every aspect of the story.
From the technical developments to the blatant sexism that plagued science fiction in those days.
On top of that, Clarke wrote a novel that reads like propaganda for a space program.
It is very effective propaganda though.
Clarke's optimism has been proven unfounded in some ways but the drive to explore space is still there.
Clarke has gone on to write more challenging novels but for a debut, it's a decent read.Full Random Comments review
This is a very early Clarke novel - one that describes the events leading up to the first manned lunar voyage.
The novel is filled with scientific jargon, presumably accurate enough for its time and Clarke has a firm grasp on the personal and political issues surrounding space flight.
But somehow, the characters don't reach out and pull you into their story.
Instead, the reader seems to be a bystander, being told of events as they unfold.
I have not yet read much of his work - I plan to read more continuing with some short stories.
The more fascinating aspect of the book though, is what he believed the future space program would be like.
The book was written I believe the forward said in 1947.
The intro he had recorded in 1975.
He is very good in the intro about pointing out what he had gotten right, and what he had gotten wrong.
I of course have the benefit of hindsight to even the forward considering it has been some 40 years since that was written.
His optimistic vision of the exploration of space, sadly has not come to pass.
Around the end of '79 and beginning of '80 I went through a phase of reading a lot of Arthur C. Clarke's early writing--something like six novels in a couple of weeks. None of it was particularly good fiction. Contrary to the sf community, I have never regarded him as a very good writer. Prelude to Space, however, is to be judged by a different standard than most fiction because it's purpose is so didactive. Clarke was pushing for a lunar program and this book details one way it might have happened. Here his rather dry writing style is appropriate.
