https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8058301-ghost-story
I'll cover the good points first.The Good: Having a ghost come back to solve his own murder isn't a new idea but Butcher did a fairly good job with it here.
His Star Wars references are really tired and he's had no significant character development since the series began.(view spoiler)[Another of the things that bothered be, and they are legion, is that Butcher can't seem to commit to anything that might move the series along.
There was a time when the release of a new Harry Dresden book excited me like a pedophile at a pre-teen beauty pageant.
So. Good.
I had forgotten how much I love this series until I started to read this book.
woohooo!!!!!!Our GHOST STORY preview continues with Chapter 3!http://www.jim-butcher.com/books/dres...If you missed last week's post, you can check them out here: http://www.jim-butcher.com/books/dres...http://www.jim-butcher.com/books/dres...We'll be posting 5 chapters in all over the coming weeks, plus video of Jim reading chapters 1-4 at the NYCC Fan Dinner last October!**With a little over a month remaining until GHOST STORY's release, it's time for some sample chapters!
Chapter 1: http://www.jim-butcher.com/books/dres...Chapter 2: http://www.jim-butcher.com/books/dres...In all, we’ll be posting five sample chapters, plus bonus audio of Jim reading the first four chapters at the NY Comic Con Fan Dinner!
In all, we'll be posting five sample chapters, plus bonus audio of Jim reading the first four chapters at the NY Comic Con Fan Dinner!
This was a very uneven book, with lots of filler material. Harry lives to fight again. It's as if he never left. It's as if we're back to square one. Shoot, Jim Butcher has officially exhausted any permutations of wisdom that used to guarantee 5 stars from me. This book... such a bland book with a sugary end tacked on. One piece of advice to demanding readers; you'll enjoy the rest of this series only if you lower your expectations as much as you can.
Freaking bananas amazing.Utterly brilliant, perfectly done, with a flawless audiobook narration, the best I've ever heard from James Marsters.
One of the reasons that this book was narrated so flawlessly, I think, is that it was very recently re-done by Marsters after fans revolted when originally another narrator read this story.
Marsters brought his A-game, and listening to this book was better than watching any movie.
Marsters did an incredible range of voices, read with perfect inflections, and simply RUINED me for other narrators.
It was so good that I listened to almost 18 hours of audiobook in just under 3 days.
I didn't realize how much I enjoyed reading about Harry blowing stuff up until he couldn't do it anymore.One of the things a lot of people don't understand about magic is that the rules of how it works aren't hard-and-fast; they're fluid, changing with time, with the seasons, with location, and with the intent of a practitioner.
The wide universe stretches before you." pg 185I also didn't realize how much I enjoyed the give-and-take of the characters in this series until the main character couldn't interact with most of them anymore.Ghosts who weren't supermighty manifested all the time.
If I wasn't married, I'd take this character home to meet mama and her sister.Course, they might scare him off...
I WILL BE ASSUMING THAT IF YOU ARE READING GHOST STORY YOU HAVE READ CHANGES...........Okay, as I was saying, the book picks up pretty much as the last book (Changes) ends, though time doesn't run in death as it does here.Don't ask me, I don't know why.Harry having died is probably a little relieved that he might get to lay back and "rest in peace" (though his ultimate after-life disposition does concern him a bit).
I mean that for those of us who see the Story moving or trying to move forward there may be times that it starts to feel that we're sort of taking a couple of steps back before we move forward.
I kept turning the pages, eager to see how it would all turn out and sometimes wondering if Butcher really was going to sucker punch us, after all.
As I (and, no doubt, tons of other fans) always suspected, Butcher could not let the plotline of Harry becoming Winter Knight go to waste.
I'm also going to re-read Changes and Ghost Story back-to-back to look closely at how they fit together before the release of the next book.On the second reading (6-21 November, 2012), I do think Changes and Ghost Story flow together well.
This time he cannot do anything to material things, so what he does the whole book is talking a lot and feeling guilty for anything and everything (I was seriously expecting him to find a way to blame himself for Crucifixion of Jesus; I kid you not, I would not be surprise if he did).
For now only good guys stay dead, almost every bad person/entity comes back one way or the other.I might have read too many books of Agatha Christie, but I figured Harry's murder sometime in the first half of the book, so no big surprises in this case.All in all, I consider this to be just a filling material and hope the next book is better.
***Please note that this review will contain spoilers from the last book in the series.*** To save his friends—and his own soul—Harry will have to pull off the ultimate trick without any magic...
Ghost Story starts right where Changes left off with Harry roaming around in a place that is between life and death, where he observes his friends and promptly becomes worried for them.
In the last book Harry did a few things that surprised me all on behalf of his daughter and he continued to surprise me in this book as well.
As always I'm looking forward to the next book in the series.Review also posted at Writings of a Reader
I do love Harry Dresden, don't get me wrong, but he's a ghost solving his own murder in this book? Seriously? I'm supposed to take this seriously? this guy is more believable...I mean, I get that this book and world is fantasy, but.... It's not just that, it's also just really really lame. Like, been done - too many times - and not well - lame.And, that's not the only problem I had with this particular book in the series. It was also incredibly boring. Harry was introspective. Introspective!!! T
I do love Harry Dresden, don't get me wrong, but he's a ghost solving his own murder in this book?
this guy is more believable...I mean, I get that this book and world is fantasy, but....
Like, been done - too many times - and not well - lame.And, that's not the only problem I had with this particular book in the series.
Harry was introspective.
He had to see the fall-out from his decisions of the last book, but it was boring to read.
Plus, after all of that introspection, he never actually truly understood why what he did to Molly was so very wrong.
Wow.After the 4 plus months Butcher needed to write this I expected something epic.
And definitely wasn't worth the wait.*update*I finally finished it a few days ago.The last third of the book did shed some light on what happened, why it happened.
Sure, the "how" of it did interest me, and it was written nicely, but it still didn't make up for the utter boredom of the first half of the book.And even if the ending isn't as big of a cliffhanger as the last one, it still is one.
It was pretty interesting watching Harry in ghost form trying to save his friends without a body!I love Dresden's character.
He has always been a strong believer in doing the right thing and managed to avoid crossing the moral line until the previous book.The pay off comes in these books now as we have a long history of getting to know Dresden's friends, who are as quirky and diverse as Dresden himself.The highlight of this book for me was looking into the inside of Bob's skull- home!
So when Ghost Story: A Novel of the Dresden Files, Book 13, was narrated by someone other than series regular James Marsters, some listeners were disappointed.
And to make me want to go back and listen to the book again, to pay attention to all those things that didn't seem to need so much attention the first time around.This interlude teaches Harry some valuable lessons – unable to act, he learns to consider more than he's ever had the chance to do before.
It does offer you some insights into the supporting cast that we haven't had until this point however.James Marsters Audio book: All is now right with the world.
They are "retiring" the John Glover version and releasing a new version read by James Marsters.
This book is pretty much impossible to review without major spoilers from Changes, so if you're not up to this point of the series my review may not make a whole lot of sense.
I hate reviews that spoil the book and normally avoid spoilers of any kind in all of my reviews.So at the end of Changes (view spoiler)[Harry is dead.
Ghost Story is the 13th book in the Dresden Files series.
Can Harry Dresden manage it without a body...or magic?This is probably my favorite book in the series so far.
If I had been forced to wait for a new book after finishing the cliffhanger ending of Changes (book #12), I would have had a rough time!
As it is, I'm biding my time in finishing up this series because book #16, Peace Talks, still doesn't have a firm publication date.
I will patiently (or just a bit grumpily) wait awhile longer, but I'm giving Dresden a break until I know the new book is coming.
It looks like I was wrong to give this series another chance.
I used to love Harry Dresden but somewhere around #11 the quality really plummeted.
Dresden is pretty much so powerful now that he doesn't have to worry about much.Worse, the gamer jokes just don't hold up that well compared to a few novels back and it seems like the body language gestures and dialogue are too similar between all of the characters.
So Harry dies and becomes a ghost and he has to save his friends but is limited aaaannnndddd you get the idea.
I'm sure he'll come back.
The twists in Ghost Story definitely reflect this mindset, and even though the story is ultimately about Harry’s experiences, the overall plot of the series gets thrown for some loops, too.Secondary characters with primary problemsDue largely in part to the protagonist’s inability to affect most of the world, much of the novel revolves around the secondary characters.
But there has been so much backstory and worldbuilding over the first twelve books in the series which comes into play in Ghost Story that a new reader would probably be overwhelmed.
What felt like a fresh take on the series turned into the norm.The first third of the book was a fresh take on the previous novels involving different people and adding a layer of difficulty for Dresden that reminded me slightly of Patrick Swayze.
But the series seems to be stagnating over the last few novels, which is bizarre to say with how much happened in the grand scheme of things in the last book.
I had been warned about this book as a bit of a series low by a couple of people so I’m keeping the faith and I’ll read the next few entries to get up to speed and then make a judgement call from there.
This was a waste of time and a manipulative mind-jerk.
This entire book except for the final chapter should have been a short story or just the opening chapter of this book.
Yes, we did learn some of Harry's back-story.
This Harry, I didn't really care about.
OK, maybe it was because he was a shade and it "wasn't really Harry" or maybe it was just lazy writing and a lack of respect for one's audience?
The main thing I came away with from this book is that if Butcher continues like this -- it's time to take a break from Harry and focus on his friends/family/allies.
I enjoyed this audio - as always James Marsters did an amazing job with the narration, and I liked that Dresden had to figure out how to deal with live as a ghost. I just wish the fighting scenes weren't so very long.
I am totally a fan of Jim Butcher and will continue to look forward to the next book in the series, BUT...I have to be honest.
So Ghost Harry goes back to Chicago six months later, finds the local necromancer (Morty) to help him out, and catches up with all his friends.
I did get that a ghost is made up entirely of memories, and so I understood what he was trying to do by having us walk through so many of his, but I still found it tedious to read.
If you're a Dresden fan, you pretty much have to read it anyway, but there's my take on it.
I gave it three stars mainly because Ghost Story does what the other books do well.
I like reading about Harry's world and the characters in it.
I also liked the way Mort's character developed into a really sympathetic good guy.
The author seems determined to make Harry "The One" and in this book, wow.
Harry & company dealt with the Corpsetaker (thanks to Mort and Molly!) but whatever happened to the Fommor?
(To be fair, I may have missed it as I struggled at points in the book).Long story short, if you like Harry, you'll probably be okay with the book.
★ ★ ★ ★ ★ Some things, my friends, are worth the wait.Ghost Story is a prime example of why I love Jim Butcher's books.
They are good books.
They are great books.
They are the Six Million Dollar Man of books.
They are the MacGyver of books that can build a repelling harness out of a hair scrunchie, 3 earrings, and the elastic from a pair of boxer briefs.
God is jealous that he forgot to create these books.
They are worth a minute or two of your time.Ghost Story was amazing and I am in a daze currently.
No matter how much I love Harry Dresden but a bad book is a bad book.
And I think you took a lesson from the old TV show Dallas on how to kill a character without really committing yourself to what seems like the logical outcome.In some ways, this also reminded me of the movie It’s a Wonderful Life in that Harry Dresden gets to find out how many people he mattered to and how much.
His powerful presence scared off a lot of bad guys who might otherwise have made Chicago their place of business.Harry gets to view his life, his city, and his friends from an entirely new angle in this volume of the Dresden files.
Dresden's Now a Spook17 May 2016 Well, I've just finished another of the Dresden Files, and I have two more to go before I hit the end of the ones that he has already written (and it seems that the next book after Skin Game hasn't hit the shelves yet – I wonder if he is now going to do a  George RR Martin and continue to delay the release of this book because, well, he's basically either run out of ideas or become bored with the concept and moved onto something different). Before I continue I fe
Before I continue I feel that I probably should say something:	Anyway, at the end of the last book Harry died but it seems that death isn't actually the final chapter in his story because he is suddenly yanked back into the real world (or should I say the shadowy realm between reality and what lies beyond death) and told to go and look for his murderer.
Initial thoughts (see below for review): Well, I can't say that was my favorite in the series, not by a long shot.
And I'm happy it didn't end the way I thought it would.
Hmm...how does one go about reviewing this book without spoiling those that haven't caught up to it?!
You know, I'm so happy I don't read the blurbs for these books before I start them.
With this series, those blurbs are MASSIVE spoilers!!
I kept thinking the story had to be turning around, but it kept in the direction I thought it was the entire book.
This was different in style and tone as compares to the other Dresden novels. I still enjoyed it but felt like it was easy way out to reboot the main story arc in a sense. Very similar to how comics reboot it.
