https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136026.Economy_and_Society
This book begins with a discussion of the methods of sociology. Given that the social sciences are now dominated by statistics, I find the prestatistical era to have achieved a far better (and more realistic) approach to understanding societies. I highly recommend the first 300 pages...and particularly the first 50 or 60.
Despite creating lots of categories, Max always stuck close to the data and far away from abstractions.
Theory can explain a lot, he always used to tell me, but *History,* that fickle creature, always swoops in to muck things up.
Ultimately, he said, there is no final answer.
"Look at all this, isn't it beautiful?" he said.
Things keep getting more rational, but that doesn't necessarily mean it's getting better." Then he threw some categories at me in a desperate attempt to escape his depressing liberal reformist world-view.RationalityCharismaTraditionLegitimationDominationStatus vs.
I will never stop reading this book.Real talk - the hype is deserved. While its difficult to follow the "neo-Kantian realism" end of Weber's methodology, an entire idiosyncratic and systematic social imaginary gradually comes into focus as one flips through chapters. There is a huge amount of insight to be gained, but ironically not too much directly in dialogue with Marx.Reading Simmel's Philosophy of Money gives some additional insight.
SOCIOLOGYs BIBBLE , IT HAS IT ALL , A MUST FOR SOCIOLOGY STUDIES....
Es un libro fundamental para todo aquel que pretanda conocer el profundidad el modelo económico y político actual.
I don't want to write a very long review because it will never be a good one. These books are the best socio-economic work ever. You will understand what I mean when you read it, and will become an admirer of Weber's genuine narrative.
ugh, god help me...
Absolutely indispensable for any serious scholar in any number of disciplines.
Huge, two volume set; a tome, to say the least. Classic Weber, and a must for every social theorist's library.
a fundamental text to understand the works of the great Weber.
Assigned reading for course on Political Culture
I remember feeling completely overwhelmed. I hadn't even read the Protestant Ethic yet. Hopefully, I will have enough time this summer. I find Weber brilliant and engaging.
Weber made permanent contributions to the understanding of society with his discussions of comparative religion, bureaucracy, charisma, and the distinctions among status, class, and party.
