https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11666.Rabbit_at_Rest
My way of informing you that I've read more John Updike than, say, 98% of the population, and, though I am not an “Updike expert,” I've gone so far as to having elaborate couch fantasies with him as well.And, having inappropriately written all of that, I want you to know that you can trust me when I suggest to you that you ABSOLUTELY SHOULD read the Rabbit series (his most famous work), but just quit at Rabbit #3, Rabbit is Rich and call it a day.Despite what Rabbit himself advises his grandson, Roy, in this book, when little Roy explains that he left the movie theatre early because the Dumbo movie had upset him: “If you don't stay to the end the sadness sticks with you," I respectfully disagree.
we don’t wanna turn into one of those morons that’s always happy and even (y’know the old ‘let fury have the hour, anger can be power’ business is something i firmly stand behind), but we can’t be one of those people that goes home and lays in bed all night stewing about george bush or how their parents fucked them up or what they should have said to that rude dmv worker or cocky bookfacer or self-obsessed friend etc… the Rabbit books so perfectly lay down exactly what i’ve spent so much of my life fighting against.
This year, I discovered with great glee, the brilliance of John Updike, and I've hopped through the four books he wrote about the guy we all love to hate (or hate to love), Rabbit Angstrom.I'm bidding goodbye to this flawed horndog, with misty eyes.
This book, focusing on mortality, has many excellent parts, my favourite being a perilous scene on the ocean with Rabbit and his granddaughter.
(hide spoiler)]The book and series end in a heartbreakingly perfect denouement, our hero coming full circle.
This last book in the Harry Angstrom cycle by Updike looks at the end of Rabbit's life and disillusionment at the end of the 80s.
It is worthy of the Pulitzer it garnered (Updike's second after the equally superb Rabbit is Rich).
Suffice it to say that there is the same set of characters which we know from the previous books and a nice circular return at the very end.
An essential read for understanding America on the eve of the 90s.It is an excellent book which explores the themes of aging and death as well as fatherhood in that intimate prose which only Updike knew how to write.
Tu sai che puoi fidarti, non devi aver fretta, devi invece controllare bene nelle pieghe delle sue frasi più amare, perché lì son nascoste le verità che molti cercano e che poi non son disposti ad accettare.Updike gode dell’apprezzamento di buona parte dei suoi colleghi scrittori, è in grado di riprodurre il flusso dei pensieri del suo personaggio come se usasse una GoPro mentale.
Lui non racconta di un uomo che invecchia, lui è quell’uomo è dentro quel personaggio e ormai, alla fine della saga, vi ha trascinato anche me.
Q: Where oh where will Rabbit go to rest?
Where will it all--all four decades worth of this, an all American life--culminate-- and how?A: In Florida; and boringly.This is a tremendously slow trek through Harry Angstrom’s last year and we see the guy eat himself to death and burn bridges with family and friends.
(Eh… what’s new?) The sick sad life of the American Male: the fourth novel is overkill; while it's perfectly nice to revisit some of Rabbit’s highlights and (mostly) low-lights, how o how can a life be reduced to American history merged so neatly with a deep and personal human experience?
I dreaded reading this book and I have to admit that it took me two weeks to get through the last 50 pages.
I miss Harry Angstrom not as if a dear friend has died, but as if I have died myself and yet somehow remain around to mourn my own loss.
What's odd is that I didn't really like Rabbit.
I'm having a difficult time not going back and re-reading the Rabbit series again.
the only thing that stops me is the hope that I'll find another book that will touch me as deeply.
Eat a balanced diet. Exercise regularly. Avoid excessive drinking. Don't fuck your daughter-in-law. Lot of good life-style advice in this book...
It feels as much like a real life as anything I've ever read does.What's worked less well is Updike's insistence on sending Rabbit, Forrest Gump-style, stumbling through the headlines of each decade.
(But if you'd like to play Literary Key Party, here are the rules.) Here in the 80s, Rabbit deals with - what else?
But it feels dubious.But we're also dealing with mortality, and when Updike just relaxes and gets into Rabbit's head, it's insightful.
My life is also fairly silly, all things considered, and it makes me feel more human to have this one to compare it to.
But after four novels, each gradually getting deeper into the character, moving from about 300 pages in the first to almost 500 by the last, I've logged in a lot of time with Harry Angstrom.
And so when this one brought his story around to the end, I got a little sad.
And so much of Rabbit's story involves all of the mundane details of small-town life -- watching TV, knowing the same people your whole life, never really venturing outside of your circuit.
So, I mean, Rabbit was kind of a jerk to the very end.
As he staggers through bland smalltalk with a Holocaust survivor who's been reduced to a decrepit buffet patron and tries to pack a punch in awkward conversations with his distant grandchildren, one realizes that if life does have some driving purpose, Rabbit Angstrom has never tapped into it.
RABBIT AT REST is a slice of reality, and sometimes reality ends in unresolved regrets and pitiful, self-defeating attempts at impossible reconciliations.Updike is also an American historian, an ethnographer of the middle American malaise, and in RABBIT AT REST, just as with previous decades in the previous books, he captures life in the late eighties as though from some well-informed future vantage point.
He is the unchallenged all-time champion of jerks, but here, even Rabbit sinks to new lows.
Throughout the books, the losses mount up as the people in his life tend to die early or else find a way to escape the maelstrom that is Harry.
Rabbit's soliloquoy is more rambling, but no less heart-felt.
I feel that I've spent all this time with a character that I didn't really like and yet, at the end, I felt empathy for him.
I thought of all the mistakes I have made in my life, all the people I've hurt and disappointed, and I thought, "Who am I to judge Rabbit?
My favorite of the tetralogy. Probably because this asshole finally dies.
I had earlier in my life been unable to get through RABBIT, RUN, but thought maybe added maturity would help me appreciate Updike's writing more.
Even his gift with words (the reason for the second star in the rating) wasn't enough to make up for the thoroughly unlikable characters and depressing picture of several wasted lives.
And I don't think the author showed any reason for the evolution of this selfish character.
I wonder what Updike could have done if he'd chosen to portray any positives, either in characters or in society in general?
Perfect ending. I got choked up and I loved it. After 1500+ pages of Rabbit, even with all his flaws I'm going to miss him. Living through four decades along with all his unfiltered thoughts was a roller coaster ride.Rabbit, Run was a good introduction to this, at many times, unlikable character.Rabbit Redux was the least enjoyable of the four books and, frankly, hard to stomach in a lot of parts.Finally, Rabbit Is Rich a Rabbit at Rest were the best of the four books and ended the tetralogy nicely.
But mostly about death.Taken together, the four books are complex character studies of three main people - Harry, Janice and their son Nelson.
Rabbit is the WORST HUMAN BEING EVER by a very long distance, but even Janice and Nelson aren't always easy to empathize with.
Rabbit fades away, made redundant at home by Janice's new-found independence and at work by Nelson's taking over.
The smell of good advice always makes Rabbit want to run the other way.
John Updike closes out his quartet of Rabbit novels with what can only be described as a masterpiece.
Cocaine is a pervasive substance striking Rabbit close to home.
Nelson, Rabbit's son, now in charge of Springer Motors, has the habit.
The sales statistics just don't look quite right.And Rabbit, at only 56, is feeling his age.
Sometimes it burns right down to his fingertips.
However, Rabbit loves his salty snacks.
And those cashews are dry roasted--his favorite."Rabbit at Rest" can end in only one way.
Updike has taken us through three decades of Rabbit's life.
Just the way I like them.
Books aren't like chilies and I can't see the point in trying to consume as many as possible within the year, as if this was some kind of idiotic competition.
In fact it seems to trivialise and undermine the whole point of reading, especially the kind of deep reading that is only possible in books as opposed to the surface skimming which we dedicate to the Internet or other types of screen-based reading.Take Rabbit at Rest as an example.
instead of reading challenges we need more of the mindset that inspired the slow food movement.
Until the end, that is, when he reverts back to the old Rabbit we knew and disliked.In this Pulitzer winning novel, Updike really shows off his skills.
His command of the time and the places he is writing about, the late 80's in Pennsylvania and Florida, is breathtaking.
His lyrical descriptions of locations from Pennsylvania in the fall to Florida during the winter are beautiful and evocative.
As Donald Trump would say, "He has really good words."In the end, while Updike continues his masterful command of the language and the world, Rabbit returns to his stubborn, reactive and egocentric behavior.
This 1991 Pulitzer Prize winning book was the last in the 4 part series written by John Updike about the life of Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom. I enjoyed this final book the most of this series maybe because the main character was the same age as me. Updike did great job continuing this series over 3 decades. I give this book 4 stars.
Naturally, I decided to read this one before all the others, although I don't think it actually made that much difference.In this fourth installment, main character Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom now lives in a condo in Florida, in 1989.
It helped me to get through the slower parts of the book, and I'm very glad of that.Interestingly, I felt a sense of loss when I finished the book, and it made me feel quite sad - however I didn't actually like Rabbit as a character.
Ok. I got through all four of the Rabbit Angstrom novels.
But, by God!, his characters in the Rabbit tetralogy, all of them, are just seedy, soulless reprobates.
There is happiness in life, of which there is apparently none at all in the world of Rabbit Angstrom.
And this is where I think Updike fails, in spite of his undeniable skill as a writer and storyteller.This last of the tetralogy finds Rabbit in decline spiritually and physically, with his inevitable death by massive heart attack doing exactly what he was doing in the very opening scene of the first novel: playing basketball with younger kids.
Builds character and humility; and it's a great example for aspiring writers of what makes for excellent writing.
A book that shows America in a microcosm--white america rather, MAGA's predictor--read the Rabbit series.Or, if those comparisons sound completely distasteful, and you want poetic prose stretched over fifteen hundred plus pages--lust and sex written in as true, as visceral, as precise a form as any--if you want to meet perhaps the most selfish yet sympathetic character in American fiction, read the Rabbit series.Updike wrote the Rabbit series over the course of three decades, publishing one book every ten years.
In Rabbit, each novel (except perhaps the third--my favorite) gets better.In the first book, “Rabbit, Run,” Rabbit is 26-years old.
Updike's Rabbit series ends - suprisingly - softly.
Despite a tumultuous 60 years full of controversial life decisions by the main character Rabbit, Updike decides, perhaps NOT suprisingly (since Updike himself was in his own later years when writing this book), that things should wind down gracefully.
I'm not sure I buy that a deviant like Rabbit would have been so oblivious to his own son's cocaine habit.
I'm not sure I buy that Rabbit's daughter in law was bonkers enough to sleep with him.
Updike chooses to end this series with a single and perfect word. After all the raw, ugly damage Rabbit creates, I was glad to leave this world on Updike's perfect ending. This is great writing, definitely deserving of a Pulitzer prize, imo, but it's tough going. In the past, I've reserved five-star ratings for books I know I'll revisit. But I'm not sure I can return to Angstrom's world. I've turned to Ann Patchett's "Run" for now, hoping for something dreamy and beautiful like her "Bel Canto".
The last of the tetralogy was my first - wonder if I would have read it differently if I knew Rabbit from before. I didn't find it unreadable - in fact there are some great insights and observations on human nature and it's quite funny at times. The characters are interesting - but between it all there are too many pages where nothing really happens..
Self indulgent garbage. The dying gasp of white male privilege.
the end of the 'Rabbit' books = the end of my affair with john updike. don't want to read 'Terrorist,' read 'S.,' was disappointed. but the Rabbit books i will read over and over.
It's the always the end we remember, right?It's taken quite a few years for me to dig through the four Rabbit books, but I've finally done it - I've read them all.
It's a good ending to the Rabbit saga.
One takeaway I had from this novel, and the series as a whole I guess, is the idea that in America we maybe take freedom to far.
As one would guess, Rabbit doesn't really know.
Indeed, this series is not about a good person.
Harry (aka Rabbit) is one of the least likable main characters I've ever read.
Nelson Angstrom's attempt to justify his freebase habit doesn't help matters any, nor do deep troubles with Toyota corporate (OK, there's some Engrish in here that comes off as pretty cringe-y in 2018).
And, as always, he turns towards his particularly sad bourgeois comforts -- extramarital affairs, various attempts at putting on a façade of respectability and grandfatherliness, and of course the glowing cynosure of TV comedy, encapsulated at this point in American cultural history as Rabbit's fascination with Phylicia Rashad's ass on The Cosby Show.
This sort of transcendental American sadness tends to come at me in waves.
