https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2382310.The_Pivot_of_Civilization
Sanger comes from an anti-humanist, neo-Malthusian perspective, favorably referring to Malthus throughout the book.
Sanger typifies the cold, psychopathic intellectual who provides foundational premises and intellectual cover for the necessary monsters who will actually carry out the business-end of her evil ideology.
Good and evil are inverted and "shame" becomes society's new "sin."I turn now to the interesting but shameful implication of liberal so-called "Christian" theologians who became complicit in Sanger's evil ideology, even citing biblical support of her eugenics program by contorted "interpretation."Quote: "Dean Inge believes Birth Control is an essential part of Eugenics, and an essential part of Christian morality.
it was recommended to me to read this book as research on the current planned parenthood debate.
I would recommend that more people read this document written by the founder of planned parenthood.
she promotes birth control and women's health.
she was a huge proponent for women's health and independence.
she was not for having several pregnancies and not being properly cared for by parents who had no option of birth control.
she felt it was wrong to have such a high infant mortality rate because of malnutrition and lack of parental care.
all in all, a very interesting and enlightening read.
I have no idea how to assign this book a certain number of stars, so I'm declining.Sanger, having been reduced to a one dimensional abortion machine by conservative Facebook posts, turns out to have a fascinating and complex perspective, equally horrifying and prescient.
This was honestly, I'm embarrassed to say, news to me.It's also clear that those conservative memes about her advocating for eugenics are in no way an exaggeration.
There is an attitude that advocating for the elimination of the "unfit" classes requires a certain moral bravery that is unafraid to speak hard truths.
Project Guttenberg, you are my friend.
I wouldn't have purchased this book anyway.Lots of thoughts but my take away was this: This woman is not a role model.
She is evil personified, pivotal in founding the largest smoke screen with "the right" of birth control while in her words, "assist the race toward the elimination of the unfit." through negative eugenics.
Unfit like disabled, blacks, poor, God-fearing, or mentally ill?
"...the most urgent problem to-day is how to limit and discourage the over-fertility of the mentally and physically defective.
Sanger certainly has some valid criticisms, but of course history has shown how wrong she was about the 'problem' of overpopulation.
These bare facts stand in stark contrast to the world Sanger imagines she inhabits.
However, she completely evades the question of what to if individuals don't accept her 'solution.' More problematic is her constantly claiming to have the insight of science backing her even though she spends the latter part of the book discussing all the scientific research that NEEDS to be done that would actually demonstrate her beliefs.
Fascinating and thought provoking despite being completely wrong on nearly every major every point.
Written by one of the most horrible human beings to have ever walked this planet. Don't believe me? Read this book.
Mrs. Sanger's book is not about feminism or even birth control.
Socialism is based on the idea that if everyone was equal economically, then there would be paradise on earth because everyone would give to their fullest extent and ability and take only according to their need.
The same is correct for Mrs. Sanger's ideas.
She believed that if population growth could be controlled, especially among the deviant, dependent and delinquent classes, paradise on earth could be achieved because if people could indulge their desire for sex without the possible consequence of pregnancy then women would have power equal to that of men and mothers, motherhood and children would be cherished and not cheapened.
She was too blunt, unapologetic, and vigorous.Margaret Sanger's life's work was the promotion of birth control – not just contraception, but also family planning and "social hygiene." She endeavored to teach women how to have fewer but healthier children, to control the population, to stop the birth of unwanted children, and, yes, to promote eugenics, including negative eugenics.Therefore, I'm reasonably sure that The Pivot of Civilization will horrify a large percentage of modern persons who read it.
In her day, a large amount of insanity was caused by syphilis.
An awakening into betrayalThe reader will find a new concept for what they thought they knew about Margaret Sanger. Her darker side she openly held in the public as armour will shock you.
I had to read this for my women’s studies class. Other than the fact that Sanger was a blatant eugenist, it was an interesting read.
Rough. If you are looking for pc, this is most definitely not it. Glad I read it, but like I said, rough.
This is an important book for anyone who cares about the dignity of human life. Sanger lays out her eugenic agenda for Planned Parenthood. It's not mistake that PP clinics abound in poor and black communities. These are the people that Sanger doesn't want to be born, along with anyone who has any sort of mental defect or comes from a poor family. But don't take my word for it, read the book. She'll tell you.
A must read for anyone who wants to know about the person who founded Planned Parenthood. A chilling insight into the murderous organization of PP and the views of the founder. You only think you know about Planned Parenthood. I've given the book 2 stars only b/c of the vile contained within the pages. Still something I would recommend that people read only for awareness sake.
