https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7905092-freedom
But I don’t want to hang out with that kid and I doubt he wants to hang out with me, and he maybe is a little too self-aware to notice other people’s stories except when listening makes him look like a good listener.
Freedom tells one subculture's story well but seems to imply it's telling everyone's story.I get the feeling Franzen has read a lot of endless Russian novels and aspired to write his own.
He’s a brilliant technician, and I like brilliant technique, but I’m not sure I loved Freedom as much as I admired it.
After fifty pages, I was horrified to realize that it was looking like this book would be another collection of self-absorbed asshats.At that point, I thought there were two possibilities: 1) That Jonathan Franzen is a complete douche bag himself and that he actually thought he was creating sympathetic characters.
I hated that smug little bastard through the entire thing and was really hoping that he‘d get set on fire at some point.)The Berglunds seem like a prime example of family-first socially conscious living.
In fact, their only complaint seemed to be that there were no likeable characters in the book, that they all seemed petty and kind of horrible.
The second reason that I was ready to love Freedom is that I have read a touch of Franzen in my day.
And you quickly find that you not only start to wish the characters thorough unhappiness, but further, you actually long for some kind horrible nuclear disaster to clear the slate so that Franzen can just start over with an entirely new cast midway through the novel.The truth is that I tried really, really hard to hold out hope for the novel.
Now, I've always felt a bit annoyed and repelled by the lazy shorthand of race there, then ashamed when I use it myself -- since really the demographic group in question is, like the crowd at the bandshell, not exclusively white, and since there are millions of white people whom it does not describe -- but the concept's too pricelessly apt to resist frequent citing.The brilliance of Stuff White People Like is in its identification of a socioeconomic group which is, yes, largely white, but more to the point Obama-voting, liberal arts degree-holding, farmers market-shopping, NPR-listening, irony-appreciating, New Yorker-subscribing, boutique cable show-watching, indie-rock-listening, Clash tee-shirt-wearing baby-rearing, freelance-or-nonprofit-job-working, and neighborhood-gentrifying, but also profoundly self-loathing in a weird and specific way that is a bit hard either to detach from or reconcile with its incredible self-absorption and uncomfortable, only partly ironic smugness and conviction that the stuff it likes is good.Jonathan Franzen should be on the list of Stuff White People Like, but he should also be on the (perhaps equivalent) list of Stuff White People Don't Want To Like But Do, which reflects the ambivalent discomfort of this particular group.
His sultry pouting unshaven lips launch a thousand bustling teenage hips and one glance from his stubbly unshaven pouting guitar causes the female heart to bound about like an escaping baboon, and indeed such is his popularity that he can hardly write his tuneful songs of ten minute angst for having to shoo flocks of sweet 18 year olds gently away from his private parts.
No, so it’s something his character the egregious Katz would think.
But then how does this translate its meaning to the non coke-cut-heavily-with-nasty-meth-hoovering reader?
After reading Wuthering Heights, I had this idea: I should make a bookshelf called "Assholes and Asshats," a little place that could serve as a warning to people who immediately disregard books containing characters they have trouble relating to and sympathizing with.
Sweet, ideological, overachieving, good friend, good husband, good citizen, liberal, book-smart, giving, loving, naive, nature-preserving Walter...you know, the rug for the more venomous characters' feet, the guy who never does wrong by anybody, and so spends his life being sucked dry by Shitty Friend Generic Rock Star Studs and She-Beasts.
(Abridged for your convenience in list form) Before you think I'm mean, please note that "freedom is terrible" is kind of the point of Franzen's book: Freedom doesn't get you what you want.
Ironically, you can also substitute the book Freedom for the word freedom above, and it doesn't change the meaning of anything, which is kind of unintentionally funny on Franzen's part.
{NB: I understand why Franzen created these characters and found them necessary, but if the pages of your book turn like they're covered in molasses, you don't really want the unabridged version.}C) The whole thing felt directionless.
Like in all soap operas, everything ends well and love conquers all, of course some characters might have to be killed off along the way, but it seems like a small price to pay for a happy ending, non?If it was well written, then maybe.
And I also forgot to say that if this book was written by a woman, it would be deemed chick lit and stuck in a pastel colour cover with birds and flowers.
Honest to God, who would take this book seriously if it was written by a woman and had something pink on the cover?
And yet the book does, at times, feel like little more than a bad melodrama, a dour monotony representing neither the real world of emotions nor a freshly imagined authorial perspective on same.And you know, if Franzen wanted to explore how Americans abuse their personal and political freedoms, I'm not sure why he chose such a blandly familiar cycle of jerks-hurting-jerks to express this potentially interesting theme.
I also liked how he alternated among his four point-of-view characters.
In a way it was more depressing this time because for some characters, over some stretches, he actually made me care.
I can handle “dark”, and sometimes even “bleak”, but for Franzen’s cast, they didn’t seem to come by it honestly.
To be honest, I don’t see Franzen at his insightful best when it comes to this issue.
I also felt that the characters hurt by their own freedom of choice were pretty short-sighted, even borderline stupid at times.
It occurs to me that my review may be as inconsistent as one of Franzen’s flawed characters.
Take two parts Tom Wolfe, one part Charles Dickens, stir in generous portions of current events and humor, breath over it tragedy like pouring vermouth on a very dry martini, bake in a pan of realistic humanism and you have this wonderful book called Freedom.
We also get to know dozens of other characters who are as realistic portraits of true life as if they were shaken dry Polaroids.
Because as a family is a microcosm of a society, we are very messed up, but also OK deep down; and no matter how bad it gets, Franzen offers an always accessible option of hope and reconciliation, if only we choose it.
The people in this book suck, too, but in more of an “I don’t really care” kind of way.
There are things that happen, a whole lot of meandering conversations, and ultimately it ends up being a book you don’t care about.
I read about two thirds of it, maybe three fourths, but I didn’t care anymore.
I was just happy o didn’t actually finish the book.
I’m getting carried away here...Anyway, a solid start, a fluffy middle, and an ultimately forgetful book.
But who cares about my review or this book anyway?
And Franzen delivers this in spades, from the messy, often contrarian emotions that one feels as a family disintegrates, to the moral confusion that ensues from adultery, compromises and corruption.In its denseness, length and ambitious scope, Freedom looks and feels like one of those sprawling 19th century realist novel (Walter is Pierre, Patty is Natasha, and Richard is Prince Andrei/Anatole, or at least that’s how Patty sees it), complete with authorial pontification on virtually every big issue that defines the era that it chronicles.
That template is something like this: “To be considered good literature a story needs to be universal and timeless.
[Explanation of each term and, sometimes inclusion of another literary element.] The story XXX by XXX should be considered good literature because it is universal and timeless [and, sometimes, something else too].” Students are never to say something is not good literature because it is just so much easier to prove it’s good by using specific examples.
This, in addition to all of the other problems, prevents Freedom from being either timeless or universal or a good book at all.
If this were a cut of meat, it would be messy, ugly, but tasteful: there would be much blackness on the outside (Franzen is quite the oxymoron: he’s incredibly vivid in his very opaqueness: there are four members of the Berglund family and only three get to have their stories unfold: the elusive daughter is not worthy, apparently, of a narrative space) and the juices are left in.
(Our youngest daughter got her driver's licence this week.)So, part of my apprehension was, I didn't want to test my love of birds and trees against a more recent trend that seemed a little more self-conscious and affected (dare I say, bourgeois?) than what I had so innocently engaged in (albeit inspired by that incorrigible imperialist, Lord Baden-Powell).Pride, Pomp and Circumstance of Glorious WarThen there was the persona of Franzen himself.Depending on how generous you're feeling on the occasion of a Franzen interview, he can strike you as preppy, pompous, and a little starched collared when he speaks.
Αυτό που είναι στο επίκεντρο του "Ελευθερία" (όπως και στις "Διορθώσεις") είναι οι ανθρώπινες σχέσεις.Θα ξεκινούσα λοιπόν από τους χαρακτήρες και από την ικανότητα του Franzen να πλάθει και να εξελίσσει στα βιβλία του ήρωες από εκείνους που σκεφτεσαι ότι αν τους γνωριζες στην πραγματική ζωή δε θα ήθελες να τους λες ούτε καλημέρα, τόσο αντιπαθητικους και "παράξενους".
Κατά την εξέλιξη των χαρακτήρων βλέπουμε πολλά στάδια ανάπτυξης της ανθρώπινης ψυχοσύνθεσης, από την αυστηρη ματιά της νεοτητας, τις σχέσεις της οικογένειας που μας καθορίζουν σπροχνωντας μας μακριά από τους γονείς μας για να συνειδητοποιήσουμε στο τέλος ότι τελικα δεν πήγαμε και τόσο πιο πέρα, στα λάθη που κάνουμε το ένα πάνω στο άλλο για να φτάσουμε στη συγχώρεση και, αν είμαστε τυχεροί, στη λύτρωση.
Their daughter is a daddy’s girl and headed for a good college but pretty much a blank slate, while the son that Patty favors, Joey, rebels against Walter’s authority and judgements against him over the his exploitive morality, most evident in his money making schemes.
The themes of the tale relate to how Walter and Patty use their freedom to make meaning of their lives and do whatever it takes to preserve their marriage or to scrap it for something better.
I guess this is what Franzen knows and he writes about it really well.
Patty is as despicable as any Franzen character and for that I loved her.Criticisms: (1) Richard Katz made me cringe.
The character of Walter and his zealousness with environmental issues, while obviously in part existed to fill the gaping hole in his life and marriage and serve as an outlet for his demise, it was just a bit OTT.Franzen has an impeccable way of capturing what it feels like to live in The United States today.
At times, I felt like I was reading a foreigner's attempt -- from someplace where English is native but poorly practiced, say, Hong Kong or Australia -- to write The Great American Novel and that he gleaned all of his "facts" from movies, tv and wikipedia.
It's not so much that the "facts" were wrong, it's that they resembled painted props, wheeled into scenes to lend them "authenticity," wielded without finesse, sometimes even falling over on top of unsuspecting characters, characters who didn't have a clue that their phony world was crashing down on them.
The whole novel, in fact, makes a better bludgeon than a book.
As a bludgeon, it has heft.
"Al fin y al cabo, hay cierta felicidad en la infelicidad, si es la infelicidad adecuada".
Franzen’s own anxieties and neuroses suffuse this novel, in fact they almost suffocate it and the reader; but, again, this is his power and a tribute to his skills as a storyteller.
It is still a social novel very much of the times, and however compulsively readable it is it is not necessarily of universal significance, because, again, it is limited by Franzen’s own mind and its inherent anxieties and neuroses (as are all novels I suppose).
Franzen’s limitations are his power.
This is further complicated by the fact that husband Walter and rock dude Richard are lifelong best friends, and engaged in a complicated rivalry that finds its ultimate expression through Patty.
All these characters struggle with their effort to be 'good' and their freedom to be otherwise, but ultimately their identities are so bound up with each other that they're perhaps not as free as they realize -- and this, Franzen seems to suggest, might be what saves us.
It's not a deal breaker for me, but if you are someone who is emotionally wedded to liking the characters in a book, or even one of the characters, you might want to steer clear of this novel.
His talent comes through loud and clear with the layered and nuanced Patty and Walter Berglund, kids Joey and Jessica, family friend Richard Katz and others.
Shallow, vain, self-loathing, whining individuals full of personal pathos.
Personal liberties versus civil liberties, the heady freedom of a kid turning 18 years old versus a mother's newfound freedom with the children raised and out of the house.
* *  moment of silence * * Moving on - I've seen and read some interviews with Franzen, and yes, he does come across as an author who believes his books are incredibly important.
It's not difficult to perceive this self-importance in the book itself, either, so I perfectly understand the readers who (perhaps pushed over the edge by that astonishingly irritating Times cover, or by the deluge of foam-at-the-mouth praising reviews for this book) decided to hate Franzen from the start.
People read Franzen because they love to read, or because they just want to be entertained, maybe by something smart with a little bit of thinking too, but not because they want to change anything, the world, or (especially!) themselves.
I read this in slightly less than 24 hours and am currently nursing the most painful kind of book hangover. You know the old how can this be over? how can I possible follow this up? did I really sit up reading this until 4 am? sort of feeling. Freedom really is that good, good in that way that you will so absorbed while reading it that it won't even occur to you how good it was until you hate to turn the last page. Anyway, I'll save the longer review for a few weeks.In the meantime, enjoy it.
Franzen entices the reader with the family’s domestic woes before their move to Georgetown, anticipating the dissolution of the couples' marriage, before taking the narrative back to Patty’s childhood and teenage years with the aid of a memoir she wrote at the suggestion of her therapist.Patty’s story, entitled Mistake Were Made, sets the tone for Freedom, regaling the reader with a typically American chronicle of a young woman from an affluent background, torn between the equally appealing, yet diametrically opposed, teenage universes of athletics and artistic self-discovery.
......."Бяха допуснати грешки"Не, не бяха, романът на Франзен е без грешка в моите очи :)
The variation in quality (some characters are superbly realized, others remain flat), occasional bloating (Franzen's particular hobby-horses relating to the environment and population control get quite a workout), and restriction in focus (to a very narrow section of white, upper middle class intellectuals and their concerns) prevent it from being a great novel.
There's also that sense of claustrophobia, bordering on joylessness, that hangs over much of the central part of the book, though this is mitigated somewhat towards the end, which was surprisingly powerful and quite moving.It is, nonetheless, a very good novel.
These are, for me, what make Freedom stands out from the other American contemporary novels that emphatically talk about dysfunctional families without eliciting reactions from your tear ducts.
We thought that since we came out okay, if we use the same formula our parents used to us, our kids would turn out okay too.
The way that he interwoven these – simple American family, global and local issues plus the environment – is so brilliant you can’t help but admire his storytelling prowess that is so distinctly Franzen.
This book is worth reading by every American citizen who wants to be inspired by the story of this Berglund couple.
