https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266607.Valiant
In possession of one lezzie best friend, a mohawk donning boyfriend, and incredibly vain and insecure mother, Val participates in her life, but couldn’t be accused of living it.
Val is introduced to a world that will afford you every possible pleasure you care to take, while leaving you living in squalor and slowly choking the life from you, one Never hit at a time.
Val drowns in the world of fairie, and yet finds her inner strength, as well as the love she craves.
And yet I loved this book because these characters drop f bombs, filch, become addicts, and engage in casual sex.
So I didn't like this one as much as the first book, but I still loved it!
I liked that the characters aren't your typical characters.
Like you may not really like them, but you still totally do!Also, can I just say the troll love was freaking awesome!
I liked that Holly Black made the character fall for a troll and not a "hot" troll either!
Although, I'm sure he's super adorable because his personality was lovely!
This world has sucked me in and I can't wait to start book three right away!!
but never seemed to try and read the second book.
Things don't always go according to plan when Val is involved which is probably why this book was so entertaining.
Speaking of the people she meets, Lolli, man, she was so freaking weird!
Besides that, things happened in this book that kind of shocked me a little bit.
Overall, it was an interesting book that I'm kind of happy that I dove into.
I'm super happy that I dove back into this series and I can't wait to dive into the next book of this one.
but I'll still probably read it.
And they aren't necessarily good faeries--like humans, some are good, and some are stealthy.
But faeries are being poisoned, and Val ends up risking her life to solve the mystery and protect her unlikely troll-friend.
And I found myself drawn into the love story that unfolded between Val and Ravus, the troll.
There were a lot of loose ends at the close of the story which seemed to have been forgotten, or pushed aside, and which I would have liked to seen closed.
But even though I was disappointed by this book in many ways, the lure of the faerie world stays with me.
Her style is quite fast and if you don't pay attention for a minute you might lose track but I prefer that to books with tons of unnecessary, boring paragraphs.Furthermore I find her style very real and honest, she doesn't mind describing disgusting/disturbing things (not in a sensational way though, just very casual), for example how Lolli pushes the kitten in front of the train or how Dave and Val have sex.What I loved as well was the anti-heroness about Val. How she shaves off her hair, gets dirtier every day and still is loved.
Lots of books I've enjoyed during reading them, have disappointed me with their weak endings.
The one book's one saving grace was a troll and though the idea was cool, it was hardly enough to save the entire horrible mess.
Her characters, her plot, they're constructed like cheap, ugly whores.
Okay, so street kids and drugs and people with piercings and dyed hair, yeah, I know how those things look cool.
But underlying all of these "cool" things is generally such pain and insecurity that to write about them in the way that Black does is like covering a snake-infested swamp with a glittery plastic sheet and inviting your friends to go ice skating.People can write whatever crap they want, thankfully we don't have to read it.
Really boring..... nothing really happens... Edit: December 20,2012 Can't bring myself to finish this novel....
One day Val goes along with Dave on one of his deliveries and discovers the mystical world she had only heard of that involves faeries and glamour.After becoming more and more fond of this new-found world, she decides she wants to try and become a part of it and shoots up a magical drug that Lolli and Dave have been using for a while, that they like to call Never; “Nevermore, never, never…no more pain”.
They get everything they ask for and never feel a thing until the drug starts to wear away.While on the Never, Lolli and Val decide to go check out a specific place where Dave makes his deliveries; the home of a troll that goes by the name of Ravus.
This story follows 17-year-old Val Russell who runs away from her dysfunctional home within the first few chapters.
She also finds herself in the company of three homeless teens--Lolli, Dave, and Luis who live on an abandoned subway platform.Eerie and strange, Val finds herself caught in the web of drugs she's never seen, and a life she never imagined.
He also wears the role of protector for both Lolli and Dave.
Dave is the younger brother who mistakenly takes Val on a delivery her first morning with the trio.
I thought Kaye, the main character of the first book, Tithe, had a difficult childhood, but it was nothing compared to this.
Most of the book follows Val and her friends Lolli, Dave, and Luis who live in a disgusting, abandoned subway station, while they are high on faerie drugs all day.
I really enjoyed his character, although he was way too good for Val. Roiben was actually in this one for a bit near the end, and Kaye was mentioned to be in the room, but we don't see her.
And there were numerous other things that bothered me about that book.When Valiant came out, I delayed in reading it.I decided it was time to read it last week.And this is all I have to say about it-It's almost the same sort of story as Tithe-lots of cursing, lots of drug and sexual references.Most of it was very inapropriate, for me, at least.And all of it distracted from the story-which wasn't half bad if it didn't have certain elements.So-I can't really recommend it.
Val falls in love with Ravus, but he is disgusted to find out that she's been stealing the drug from him.
When I read the blurb for Valiant I wondered if perhaps I had found one that wouldn’t appeal to me quite so strongly—but I might have known that I would end up enjoying it anyway.I enjoy Black’s conception of what the Faerie world would be like—I like the darkness, the slipperiness, the duplicity.
Our heroine, Val by name, is the subject of the title, as her friends start calling her “Valiant.” This reminded me strongly of the Prince Valiant comic strip that we used to get in a weekly paper.
I think I clipped the weekly comics from the paper and made a scrapbook of the tale.
This one was less weird than the previous installment, but I still enjoyed it immensely. That first chapter was something else and each chapter just kept me hooked. Ravus was so sweet and I loved the dynamic between him and our main character, Val. Also, I would like to take a moment to appreciate the word play between Val and the title of this book!
She's drawn further into that world when a moment of instinctive chivalry sees her bound in service to the troll Ravus - who, Val discovers, is in grave danger.My short reaction here is: This was a good book, and I didn't like it much.Longer reaction: It was good in that Val is a powerful force in the narrative, and she's indisputably the hero of her story; she has a sword to prove it.
I wanted the brothers, with their rich, tragic backstory, to get something good out of all this, not to end up simply as players in Val and Ravus' story.
And Lolli *shakes head* - I hate her.
I was invested in her - and I was praying that she wouldn't come to harm.Also, never in a million years did I think I would root for a troll.A troll/human shipping = LOVE for me.I was honestly thinking that Holly Black would have pulled a Beauty and the Beast on me - but she didn't, and I was suprisingly grateful.Val and Ravus's relationship had depth - something which I find is rare in literature today.And lastly, Ruth = the bestest friend ever.
I'm sure some people look at Valiant and feel it's a dark interpretation of an adolescent mind, but Holly Black is just being honest with herself, with us, and the target audience she's writing for.Frankly, I'm glad there are books like Valiant on the shelves.
When I grew up and was in the hormonal throws of puberty I didn't have novels like this that didn't pander below my maturity or pretend the only issues teenagers really face is falling for the right girl/boy.
I didn't really care for this book. I think if I was 16 into punk and dressed all in black it would be great. It had quite a bit of language and a "situation" with the mom and the boyfriend that made me want to up-chuck.
*2.5*Cuando empecé este libro no pensé que fuera a gustarme y durante las primeras páginas quise abandonarlo, porque no parecía mi género. —¿Crees que eres un héroe?—No, creo que tú eres un villano. Eso resume bastante bien la trama, Val no es especial, no tiene dones y no sabe nada de las hadas. Solo es una chica común que, al huir de casa, se ve envuelta con mensajeros, trols y hadas. La historia parece sencilla al comienzo pero se complica con los repentinos asesinatos de hadas que compromete
Eso resume bastante bien la trama, Val no es especial, no tiene dones y no sabe nada de las hadas.
Para ser un libro tan corto, tiene un ritmo bastante lento, hay momentos en blanco y la trama se estanca en un par de ocasiones.Aun así, se lee muy rápido y fácil.
La trama engancha y es bastante adictiva llegando al final.
Me gusto, es un libro para pasar el rato, que se lee en un tarde o en unas pocas horas.
So, once again, Jen checks out a book from the library without consulting the order in the series.
For such a short book, though, it took entirely too long to get to the grit of the faerie world, and even then, it remained more urban fantasy than I expected.
I don't honestly know what I was expecting, though, since I thought I was requesting the first book when I grabbed this one.
Are either/both of the other books better than this one?
Should I bother with them, or just wait impatiently for the next book in her new series?
2.5 StarsThis book is more of a companion than a sequel, which threw me for a loop. It's also one of the darkest and messed up YA books I have ever read. It begins with the main character walking in on her mother hooking up with her boyfriend and does not get any lighter from there! Yikes!
I don’t know what 2006 me was thinking because 2018 me absolutely LOVED this book.
I really felt for Val while she was struggling with everything and her addiction to Never made the ending that much more rewarding.
Despite the faerie drug and fantastical circumstances, drug addiction is an actual problem teens face and it’s awesome seeing that struggle represented.
It was subtle and took a backseat to Val’s character arc in a way I really appreciated FINAL WORDI must have been CRAZY the first time read this because Valiant was completely awesome.
I actually love the concept of these kids getting jacked up on fairy drugs and the message Holly Black was trying to convey about addiction, about kids from broken homes on the street, about how trauma or terrible things can make teenagers turn to dark and dangerous things, allowing them to escape reality and their own troubles and pain.
I don't know why I assumed a book titled like this would have a male protagonist (maybe because Black's curse workers series does), but I'm so glad that Val was our girl.
That's awesome.I do have this problem, however, in that I appear to be reading too many books about fairies and getting each book's take on them, slightly different as they are.
I thought the whole Seelie/Unseelie thing was great for another series I read, but was kind of annoyed with it here because I knew about it and how it played out differently.
original read: 2009I can only imagine one reason why this book is the most unpopular of the Modern Faerie Tales series and it has to do with the fact that it pushes a lot of buttons: runaway teens experimenting with homelessness, drugs and love, gender stereotypes being ignored (our heroine is the sword fighter and is referred to as Prince Valliant) and, blasphemy upon blasphemy, our male lead is not drop dead gorgeous.
But those are all things I like and are done well here.
As a teen, I read this book and thought that I'd love to visit.
I'd still like to visit.
This second book of the series has a whole new cast of characters.
Val, a seventeen year old girl from New Jersey, runs away to New York City after she walks in on her boyfriend and her mom.
(I know, gross!)Val ends up living in a subway tunnel with a bunch of homeless teens - finds out that fairies are real - makes friends with a troll - becomes addicted to some fairy "drug" her friends call Never - and must win the heart of the one she loves.I really liked this one.
Eager to read the third in the trilogy, Ironside, for more about Kaye and Roiben.
I just love all of Holly Black's books.
Her writing style is very different than others.
It was a refreshing quick read for me, and I loved every page of it.
I also was a little scared that she wasn't going to correlated the first book with the second, but then within the last few chapters she did, and that also made the book better.
I also like how the book shows that no love is wrong, and you don't have to be a hot dreamy vampire boy to get the equally as hot hero girl.
I am so disappointed by this book.After saying Tithe was probably my favorite Holly Black book so far, I excitedly go to read the second book in the series and this is what I get.Characters.
I kind of liked Ravus, but I also feel like we barely got to know hi in this book.The romance.
I feel like we barely saw them interact.Rape.
JUST BECAUSE THE CHARACTERS AND THE AUTHOR DON'T ACKNOWLEGE THAT WHAT HAPPENED WAS RAPE DOESN'T CHANGE THE FACT THAT IT WAS RAPE!!!!
Tricking someone into sleeping with you by pretending to be someone else is rape.
Valiant isn’t about re-appearances, it’s a different plot line parallel to the Faerie world and filled with the repercussion of Tithe of which I don’t really remember, but wish I had.Given how different it is, I thought I’d be able to pick up bits and pieces to jog my memory into constructing a workable foundation for references to the Seelie and Unseelie Courts, and characters like Roiben and Silarial.
And though I should have guessed, I didn't put together the fact that it was actually a Beauty and the Beast retelling until things started getting interesting with Val and a certain troll.
"But nothing can stop you from being terrible once you've learned how."I love Ravus and his role in Val's story.
While not for the faint of heart, it does such a lovely job of contrasting the flaws in Val and her companions, the bleakness of their lives, with the sudden beauty of finding you're stronger than you believed.
Valiant, the second book from Holly Black’s “Modern Faerie Tales” series, starts of after Roiben, from Tithe, became King of the Unseelie Court.
But the story isn’t about the characters from Tithe; it opens us to the life of Valerie, a human who basically falls in love with a faerie – a troll to be exact.
More than half of the book showed the deprived life of street kids living by the train tracks, getting high on Never (similar to drugs) – a bit alarming for teenagers to read, yes.
