https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/434232.The_Girl_the_Gold_Watch_Everything
It’s fun to read a novel from a talented writer when that author has stepped out of his usual style and is trying out a different genre.
An established writer of crime fiction like Cape Fear / The Executioners, fastballer MacDonald climbed the hill and let fly with this entertaining curve ball about time travel.Sort of.MacDonald’s story about a time altering device is actually most compelling by what it leaves out.
So what do you do when he dies and leaves you nothing more than a gold pocket watch and a letter to be opened one year later?This is what happens to Kirby Winter, and the way he tries to solve the new riddles in his life make up the rest of the story.
Riddles caused by the tax man's discovery of 27 million dollars apparently gone missing from Uncle's estate.
No one believes Kirby when he explains what happened to that money.
I have just one other here: Cape Fear, which I plan to get to later this year.
MacDonald, I discovered his 1962 paperback "The Girl, the Gold Watch, and Everything" after reading about it in David Pringle's excellent overview volume "Modern Fantasy: The Hundred Best Novels." Writing about the novel in that volume, the British critic tells us that it is "an amusing romp," and MacDonald's "only full-length fantasy." There may perhaps be many readers who are surprised to hear of MacDonald being mentioned in the same sentence as the word "fantasy"; after all, he is an author more well known for almost 50 hard-boiled crime thrillers, not counting the 21-book series featuring his most famous character, Florida-based private investigator Travis McGee, which started in 1964.
I read this when I was about 16 and loved it. Great fun, clever, sci-fi mixed with noir. The movie was not bad, either.The inscription inside the watch, from the Latin:"Tempus unum hominem manet." - Time waits for one man.After the famous Tempus neminem manet "Time waits for no man."
Most people aren't aware that JD did Sci-Fi...but he did, some of the very best! This is a prime example and well worth a read. Recently it was made into a Disneyesque juenile movie (very B-Grade) which did not do justice to what JD created as a VERY Bawdy tale. A Good, Fast and smart read!!!
Bumping this to a 4.51 due to memories of library patrons coming back for rereads, including me. A fun story. (The library had a hardcover with an attractive jacket, not same as pictured with this review.)
The watch also is the kick-start Kirby needs to become a real man (which in MacDonald’s view means having a backbone and not being afraid of women).There are really well-written moments here (this description of motel owner Hoover Hess who, “was a loose, asthmatic, scurfy man with the habitual expression of someone having his leg removed without anesthetic.” Or MacDonald writing about a pretty model who looked, “faintly confused as though she had just been awakened, or had just been given a good one behind the ear.”), and some extremely laugh-out loud scenes, but like a picture of the family dog drawn by a 5 year old-- while you might get the overall idea, everything seems off.
I feel as though I should apologize for not liking this book.
I've tried no less than 3 times to get into this book, and I just don't like it enough to put my time into it.
Not I'm sorry to say for me.I've plowed into this book and I always come to the same conclusion about 30 pages in.
I grew up in the Smoky Mountains...his attempt at writing southern dialogue comes very close to making me a book burner....Okay, if you like it I'm very happy for you.
I saw the TV movie back when and found it funny...but I just don't like the book.
In 1998 I wrote:I think my favorite MacDonald SF/F remains the engaging romantic power-fantasy "The Girl, the Gold Watch & Everything."But "Wine of the Dreamers" is probably equally good, and worth your attention for another period SF classic.

MacDonald book, what I think of is a sharp, penetrating look at crime and greed, usually set in Florida, often featuring interesting characters and sparkling dialogue.
This book is set in Florida, features lots of crime and greed, and includes both interesting characters and sparkling dialogue -- but it's unlike any MacDonald book I've ever read, because it's not a gritty thriller but rather a delightful what-if fantasy.Kirby Winter is a self-diagnosed ninny, a pushover who's spent years running errands for his incredibly wealthy uncle, Omar Krepps, hoping he'd eventually inherit the old man's millions.
Interesting Idea, But Dated Female Characters Detract From the FunI had a hard time getting into this short novel, but once the hook kicked in about halfway through it proved to be a fun read.
MacDonald’s few “science fiction” stories in a career noted mostly for thrillers, crime, and suspense.Kirby works for his Uncle Omar, who suddenly becomes very adept at gambling and makes millions.
MacDonald is able to balance the plot device, a watch that stops time, fairly well so that the characters can’t do just anything they want.
The Girl- she was Bonnie Lee, the hillbilly beauty,and one morning Kirby woke to find her in his bed...The Gold Watch -It seemed to have certain powers. For instance,when you touched the silver hand, the whole world changed...And Everything -There was Charla, and Betsy Alden, and D.Leroy Wintermore, and the legacy of Omar Krepps, which left Kirby $27 million, and almost more trouble than he could handle...This was actually a very entertaining little tale. The characters were endearing, the storyline was funny and interesting...definately worth the reading time!
Hilarious! A new twist on the messing around with time theme, too. The novel starts with a letter written after the end of the story. Then you get to find out how the initially wimpy Kirby ends up aligning with the events described in the letter. So many drolleries throughout. This book kind of inspired me to write my own light and humorous adventure. Getting that published is high on my priority list after a couple of other pending projects are wrapped.
One of the most fun novels I've ever read. Had me giggling from the outset, and it's one of those I love to reread from time to time to pick up my mood.
I found this book amusing and enjoyable, enough that I will read more of this author. It's about a loyal nephew whose wealthy uncle died and left him only a gold watch and a letter. The shy, retiring, almost virginal man is suddenly besieged by corporation executives, the IRS and the press, demanding to know WHERE the $27 million that should be in Krepps Corp coffers went. So he goes on the run, evolving from bewildered ninny to ..... well you'll see. It's a gentle book- nothing horrible happens- just a lot of fun and games.
It's a fun, comic romp, but reading it again, with adult perspective, I have to say McDonald had some deep moments, too.On relationships, he has Bonny Lee deliver some great commentary:“I love you good , Kirby.
We love each other on account of we give each other a lot of happy fun, and if it comes round again, we’ll take some more, and if it doesn’t, we got this much already anyhow.
That’s what people do because they got the funny idea it’s the right thing to do.
So this is who loves you, and that’s what the word means, and I got friends would die for me and me for them.
MacDonald wrote a lot of that in his early career, before turning to hard boiled crime fiction and Travis McGee. Two good characters in what is really a coming-of-age story with fantastic elements - I liked this quick read.This not the first time I have read this, but this is the only book I've read from this author.
The villain and her cohorts are described as devious but come across as clueless.A collection of MacDonald's science fiction stories (Other Times, Other Worlds) is on hold for me at the library, and I plan to delve into some of his other fiction as well - including the infamous Travis McGee. I may even rewatch the made-for-TV film of this book.
A very well-written book with twist and turned that will keep you reading his book, and much excitement was there too.Omar Krepps worths 50 million dollars suddenly died, left his nephew Kirby a letter seald, and to read it after one year according to his Uncle Omar's lawyer Wintermore, and a gold pocket watch that has a magical power to freeze time.Now, Kirby Winter was in hiding from the people who was after his Uncle's wealth, and was trying to solve the mystery behind the golden watch with the help of Bonny Lee Beaumont.
I picked this one up from one of the library's themed browsing shelves, "It's All About the Girl." And what a girl--Bonnie Lee Beaumont is the voluptuous, madcap center of this adventure/fantasy/sci-fi/comic tale by an author I previously knew only from his Travis McGee detective series.
The quality of the writing is first-rate, as I expected.
And when the ninny of a hero, Kirby Winter, shares the time-stopping secret of his late uncle's gold watch with Bonnie Lee, the mayhem that follows had me laughing out loud.
This book was a wonderful antidote to all the pre-inauguration gloom this Christmas week.
MacDonald I've read and I have to say, I like what I see so far.
The story is fun, exciting, and the action doesn't get bogged down in non-important, tangential characters or anecdotes.
The characters, especially Kirby Winters, have excellent development.
It's a lot of fun to see Kirby develop into the sort of ironic, mischievous person his Uncle Krepps wanted him to be.
The introductory letter from someone sent to find Kirby Winters is intriguing and just sucked me in to one of the quickest, most enjoyable books I've read thus far.
A rare science fiction novel from John D.
MacDonald.
The other two are serious inter-planetary pieces, but this one is domestic and humerous.
The science fiction element is the ability to effectively stop time.
This novel is so enjoyable, I wish JDM had tried the light touch more often.SciFi - The story is a classic screwball mystery about a man, Kirby Winter, who inherits a gold pocket watch that stops time for everyone but the person holding it.
His inheritance from his uncle was only the watch but everyone thinks he had something to do with a missing $27 million.
This is a book I read for the first time more than thirty years ago.
But not this time.
Though I found the book a little slow to get going, it's worth it when it does.
This is a fun little romp, with a surprising moral core, most of which comes from my favourite character, the pragmatic, irrepressible Bonny Lee Beaumont.
The character stayed with me all these years, with one of her monologues still transcribed into my book of quotes.
This is a nice, light, easy read that is bound to make you smile.
I recently reread this book. It's a lot of fun, and John D. MacDonald comes up with several good lines. MacDonald mostly wrote crime, detective, and mystery fiction, but this one is a fantasy or science fiction, depending on how one wants to define the categories.It amuses me that the novel apparently has spawned an Internet genre of time-stop amateur fiction. Some of the stories even use a watch as the magical gizmo.
Very different from most of John D MacDonald's work, this is a science fiction/comedy romp. I'm amazed that no one has made this into a theatrical movie [it was done as a made-for-television movie back in 1980:].While heavy handed in spots, much of the story is a comedy of morality, and the ways in which power will test the limits of a person's soul. Dated, but still worth reading.
John D. McDonald is, of course, amazing as the creator of the inimitable Travis McGee. It almost seems unfair that he also authored gems such as The Girl, The Gold Watch, and Everything. This is a great entry point to his works!
A fun little fantasy novel from the Master. I love all his stuff and this was no different. Clever premise about a watch that stops time. If they didn't make this into a movie, they should.
A recent conversation about TV movies of the '70s reminded me of this story, which I recall as a pleasantly cute film starring Robert Hays and Pam Dawber of Mork & Mindy fame.
Like the movie, the book is pleasantly cute: the story of a nebbishy young man named Kirby whose eccentric uncle dies and leaves him a mysterious gold watch and a big mess of trouble.
It seems this watch has the ability to stop time for whoever is holding it, which was the secret behind the uncle's unlikely success in life, and now there are unscrupulous people who want that power for themselves.
Simply pressing a finger - as the person moving in "paused" time - into the inertial flesh of someone in stasis would simply create a hole, assuming you could push a finger into something two thousand times harder than flesh - the requirements are identical to trying to "push" a 140 ton block of oak by firing a .45 caliber bullet at it, so eventually the oak will fail at the point of pressure but the block is going nowhere.
When you clicked back to normal time, there would be an explosion of blood and tissue as the bits of bone and meat continued travelling away at over 170 feet per second.)Regardless, this book put JD MacDonald on my radar - and I subsequently read more of his books - my favourite being "The Empty Trap".
Years later I had read that the book appeared on some banned lists and I remembered the sanitized movie.
Despite the fantasy nature and comic tone, MacDonald does well to create suspense and tension as he does in his hardboiled work.
Here they explore mostly the comic possibilities.
MacDonald went all out to describe what the frozen world looked like, how the physics are different, and how the efforts in that world take much longer.
Knowing the watch was the center of the story it still takes the hero about halfway through the book before he discovers its powers.
