https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17333319-burial-rites
* Once you start you will not be able to read or do anything else.* There is NO humor in this book.
This is Nordic historical fiction of times long past - there is hunger and cold and darkness.
I have been through a wringer with this one.I assume you have read the book description, so you know that this story is based on true events.
You read this book for the marvelous atmosphere and the lines.
I have only listened to 6 chapters, but there is no way this book can get anything but 5 stars.
Bleak but beautiful.
“They will say ‘Agnes’ and see the spider, the witch caught in the webbing of her own fateful weaving. They might see the lamb circled by ravens, bleating for a lost mother. But they will not see me. I will not be there.”   On 12 January, 1830, the last instance of capital punishment in Iceland occurred when Friðrik Sigurðsson and Agnes Magnúsdóttir were executed in Vatnsdalshólar in Húnavatnssýsla, for the murder of two men. While often painted as “monstrous”, a cold-blooded murderer, a figur
Kent called the result a “speculative biography”, a weave of fact and fiction, and her own “dark love letter to Iceland.” While Burial Rites presents the question of whether history has misrepresented Agnes, the novel does not necessarily demand sympathy for her.
And this is the version of Agnes that Kent chooses to portray; beneath the hard and icy veneer of a woman reviled and silenced, she is compelling, passionate and astute.While living and working alongside Jón Jónsson and his family, fragments of Agnes’ story begin to emerge.
We cannot know the entirety of Agnes Magnusdottir’s story, but Burial Rites asks us to remember her, if not reconsider how history may have buried her own truth with her body.
"They pick a mouse to tame a cat."'page 81 Agnes contemplations  "God has had His chance to free me, and for reasons known to Him alone, He has pinned me to ill fortune, and although I have struggled, I am run through and through with disaster; I am knifed to the hilt with fate." page 87 Toti hears more about Natan Ketilsson.'"He was a sorcerer." The old woman next to him had spoken.
No matter if your innermost self whispers, 'I am not as you say!'-- how other people think of you determines who you are.'" page 192/193 Agnes contemplation .
Five stars with bells on!
It is rare to find a debut novel as sophisticated, beautiful, and gripping as this one.
The desolation of the harsh Icelandic winter is felt in the very bones, it's so hauntingly descriptive.
The feelings of despair & the depth of fear are such, that I was almost holding my breath at times.
I resented any intrusion that halted my reading of this book, that's how gripping I found it.
Hannah Kent has announced her arrival in the literary world with an absolute gem of a book, which just flows from first page to last .
So haunting, so beautiful.
Agnes Magnúsdóttir is charged with the murder of two men and is delivered to a small house on an isolated farm in northern Iceland, where she must tend to daily chores and seek spiritual guidance from a priest named Toti, while she awaits her execution.
This is initially jarring but easily overcome once readers know what to expect moving forward, though the shifting perspectives result in a fair amount of repetition as certain portions of the story are recounted to readers from various character viewpoints.
The writing is magnificent and fragile from the first sentence....."They said I must die". They said that I stole the breath from men, and now they must steal mine. A 'woman' waits her public execution in Iceland in 1829...faces her mortality. Gloomy, distressing, haunting, and captivating. Off the chart-debut-writing talent for Hannah Kent!!! Incredible story!!!!
No matter if your innermost self whispers, “I am not as you say!” – how other people think of you determines who you are.’”If there's one thing that I'm sure of, it's that Hannah Kent can write like nobody’s business.• On that note, I have to mention the memory Agnes was talking about in the first exhibit, because I cannot stop thinking about it ever since I read it.
Με περιφρονούσε - και το διασκέδαζε.
Και οριστικά,αμετάκλητα,η θλίψη με έλιωσε.
Μια ιστορία γεμάτη συναρπαστικές περιγραφές που αφορούν το χρονικό ενός προαναγγελθέντος θανάτου αλλα κυρίως αποτυπώνονται με τρομερά ρεαλιστικό τροπο σχεδον άγριο- οι νοοτροπίες,τα συναισθήματα,οι δεισιδαιμονίες,οι κλίμακες ηθικών αξιών,οι σκληρές συνθήκες διαβίωσης των φτωχών ανθρώπων και γενικότερα οι θεοφοβουμενες οικογενειακές και οι επιφανειακές-επίπλαστες κοινωνικές δομές,στην Ισλανδια του 19ου αιώνα.
Ακόμη και όσοι γνωρίζουν ή μπορούν να επικαλεστούν μια άλλη αλήθεια λιγότερο κατασκευασμένη και ψεύτικη.
Ακόμη και αυτοί που η παγωνιά του τόπου τους δεν έχει περάσει στην ψυχή τους ειναι απλοί μοιρολάτρες και συνένοχοι,σαν βοηθοί θανάτου!!Καλή ανάγνωση!
A novel based on true events and characters, Burial Rites tells the story of Agnes Magnusdottir; a woman condemned to death for the murder of her employer.
I could feel the chill in my bones from the winter winds, and the tiny bits of heat from the kitchen that drift into the rooms as Agnes tells her story to Reverend Toti.And though these characters lived hundreds of years ago, they felt extraordinarily alive to me.
Agnes, the family who hold her prior to her execution, the ghosts of her life before the murder and of course, the young Assistant Reverend who is given the task of preparing Agnes for her death.This was good.
I imagine, then, that we are all candle flames, greasy-bright, fluttering in the darkness and the howl of the wind, and in the stillness of the room I hear footsteps, awful coming footsteps, coming to blow me out and send my life up away from me in a gray wreath of smoke."The words of Agnes Magnúsdóttir, convicted for the murders of two men and awaiting execution in early nineteenth century Iceland, grip you immediately upon opening this novel.
But as Tóti sits with Agnes and listens to her recount her life story, one of much hardship and immense grief, he comes to realize what should be his real duty to this forsaken soul.
This is what happens with Hannah Kent's Burial Rites.The haunting, almost harrowing, landscape of Iceland becomes a character as significant as Agnes, Tóti, Natan and Margret.
Each character springs out of the pages and right into your soul.
Agnes' voice is full of dignity and beauty, even when she momentarily gives in to despair.
Margret is strength and determination, Tóti is compassion and Natan is love as a destructive force.Burial Rites is one of the best books in the Gothic Crime fiction genre, a genre that is rejuvenated by authors like Hannah Kent and Cecilia Ekbäck.
‘they said i must die. they said that i stole the breath from the men, and now they must steal mine.’ on 12 january 1830, agnes magnúsdóttir was beheaded for her accused and convicted involvement in the murder of two men. she was the last person to be executed in iceland. this is her story.her hauntingly beautiful story. this book is such a good reminder that knowing what someone has done, and knowing who someone is, are two completely separate things. i appreciated the care with which this sto
they said that i stole the breath from the men, and now they must steal mine.’
on 12 january 1830, agnes magnúsdóttir was beheaded for her accused and convicted involvement in the murder of two men.
this is her story.
her hauntingly beautiful story.
yes, its a work of historical fiction, but i felt like i learned more about agnes than i could ever have from any sort of biography.
the raw emotion, from not only agnes but those around her, made me feel like i was standing right beside her at the execution site.
The author did an incredible job of fictionalizing Agnes’ story, capturing the bleak and barren Icelandic terrain and atmosphere, while aptly describing the stark living conditions, and superstitions of the day.
In the end, despite the lack of reprieve for Agnes, she’s able to hold her head up, to feel supported, comforted, and is at least spiritually exonerated by her priest and by others who surrounded her in those final harrowing days.
Although, I do enjoy historical fiction, this is not the type of book I typically chose, but I am glad I stumbled across it and gave it a chance.
In 1829, Jon Jonsson is tasked with housing condemned murderer Agnes Magnusdottir at his family farm while she awaits her execution.
She is unprepared for the moment her resolve softens when she meets the prisoner for the first time.“The criminal wore what seem to be a servant’s common working dress of roughly woven wool, but one so badly stained and caked with dirt that the original blue dye was hardly discernible under the brown grease that spread across the neckline and arms.
[…] There was a yellow bruise that spread from her chin down the side of her neck.”The young Assistant Reverend Thorvardur (Toti) Jonsson has the role of Agnes’s spiritual advisor to help her prepare for her death and meeting with her creator.
The writing was beautiful and as far as novels go this is one of the most atmospheric that I've read, but it just wasn't enough for me to love the book. The story itself is pretty sad (which I'm fine with) but there wasn't really enough going on plot-wise, or character-wise, for me to properly enjoy the book. The intrigue that I felt at the very beginning sort of petered away as the story went on, but I definitely loved the beginning!
Outstanding debut novel by Kent.
I thought this was wonderfully written and the story captivating.
This novel is based on a true story set in Iceland.
A story of Agnes, a woman charged with the murder (along with 2 other servants) of her former employer.
After being imprisoned and beaten she is sent to live with a family while waiting for her execution.
Horrified at the prospect of housing a convicted murderer, the family at first avoids Agnes but slowly warm up to her.
Agnes is visited by a priest whom she has requested to be her spiritual guardian.
Beautifully written.
I think I can see how Hannah Kent was so taken with Agnes and the events of 1829.Burial rites is a thought provoking and deeply moving story and I would highly recommend it but it may not please everybody as it is not an uplifting story and some may find it rather dark.It made a terrific book club read as plenty to discuss and very thought provoking.
'I am run through and through with disaster; I am knifed to the hilt with fate.'Poor Agnes!
This was a very well told story: evocative descriptions of the landscape, the farmers of Iceland and their tough life style...I have read a lot of historical fiction, but never one set in this time and place, so the details of Icelandic farming in the 1800s were fascinating.
Burial Rites, shortlisted for the Bailey's prize in 2013, is a wonderfully haunting debut novel by Australian Hannah Kent.I thoroughly enjoyed listening to this well written 1820s tale of Agnes Magnusdottier, convicted murderer of 2 men, who is sent to Northern Iceland to await her execution.
This well researched factual novel tells her story of the relationships developed while living on an isolated farm.
The unfolding and changing attitude of the farmer's wife, Margret, from being horrified to acceptance of a convict living with her family is beautifully written.
This is a story of 2 dying women, living in a bleak environment and their endurance.
They are initially imprisoned and then are literally “farmed out” to families in the surrounding areas to work until such time as their death sentence is to be enacted.Agnes is found guilty of accessory to murder, arson, and conspiracy to murder.
As Agnes and Tóti sit together at one end of the room and she begins to share her story, the family is only about 5 feet away and they listen to the stories, too.This is a deeply sad and tragic story that ranges between Agnes’ birth in 1795 and her death in 1829 – when hers is the last execution to be performed in Iceland.
Kent states in the notes that she wanted to provide a more ambiguous portrayal of Agnus, who has historically been branded as evil.
There is really no ambiguity, Agnus is a good person facing bad circumstances.
There are hints that Agnus chooses what facts to reveal, suggesting she may be manipulative, but nothing is done with this.
But the author doesn't actually paint a picture of a conflicted, complicated person.Kent's desire to give this historical figure a fair go, to see her in the best possible light, only extends to Agnus's character.
Even though I was reading this on a warm summer day, the chilly language made me think about reaching for a shawl.Hannah Kent, who is from Australia, says she became interested in the true story of Agnes Magnusdottir when she traveled to Iceland in 2003.
The novel is a bit slow to start, but picks up when Agnes is transferred to a farmer's home to await her fate, and a compassionate reverend starts to visit her.
Kent does get credit for including a pronunciation guide for Icelandic letters at the beginning of the book, which was helpful.But this feels like quibbling in what was a mostly enjoyable read.
http://www.detroitnews.com/story/news...UPDATE On 16 August 2017, the author added a video about the book to her website: http://hannahkentauthor.com/The video itself is here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hpyAo...5★+“Rósa’s poetry kindled the shavings of my soul, and lit me up from within.”Hannah Kent writes about a dark, forbidding time in an unforgiving landscape, but she shines her light into the shadows and into the hearts of some of the most remarkable people you’re likely to meet in literature.
“Only the wind speaks and it will not talk sense, it screams like the widow of the world and will not wait for a reply.”There is no thought of escape – well, only a fleeting one.“I would only be trading one death sentence for another.
But she is a great actress, so I am still excited for this story to be told through a movie If you are looking for a fast paced, action packed, sinister novel - this book is NOT for you.
I feel like this is such an important book to read, and I am very surprised that more people are not talking about it.
The blurb also claims the novel to be a telling of the last execution in Iceland - I wanted to know why it was the last one.
I give up!!! DNF at 180 pages.Monkey brain can't handle this. It's far too slow. The writing is nice, and I underlined a lot of parts that I liked, but NOTHING happens except in flashbacks, and even those are slow. Maybe I'll revisit it one day but it's just not the time for me to be reading such dense, slow prose right now
Burial Rites is definitely a winter novel.
Set in Iceland in the 1800’s, the overwhelming atmosphere is cold, dark and bleak.
She is sent to the home of a minor official and his family, to be held whilst she awaits execution.
A young priest is sent to help her find god and repent before her fate is sealed.
Agnes’ relationship with the priest and the host family forms a large part of the novel as does the gradual disclosing of the events leading up to the violent crime.Despite the dark and claustrophobic setting, Burial Rites is truly gripping.
The second is that the novel is based on a true story.The novel is atmospheric and beautiful, sad, sorrowful and pitiful moments are all the way through it, yet there is also kindness, warmth and courage.
Should they be kind to a woman charged with murder?The book is almost lyrical, it flows, it is a piece of magic on the bookshelves, it's quite sublime.
This is not an action packed book, it's a book that focuses on the complexities and hardship of life and matters of the heart, it's essentially beautiful.As for the ending?
But so sad.For more of my heartfelt honest reviews head over to my Reviews Book Blog page on Facebook.
The story told here took place in the late twenties of nineteenth century and the novel is not as much an attempt to reconstruct these events as giving the floor Agnes Magnúsdóttir, last woman sentenced to death in Iceland.
People are hard and austere, but not for cruelty, it is life itself that is hard on them.
Prose, told in third person narration, is restrained and deprived from any embellishments; only parts devoted to Agnes we get from first person perspective through her inner monologue.
Murderess, slut, witch, orphan, victim ?
Who are you, Agnes ?
