https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7741325-dash-lily-s-book-of-dares
This was the perfect book to kick off my count down to christmas! Full video review here: https://youtu.be/oEUUyRwuAQg
A solid 3 stars.
I was completely enthralled in the beginning but as the pace of the story shifted, I severely lost interest.
The setting and the characters and the plot complimented each other so well.
I do wish the mystery of the notebook was preserved for longer during the story - I feel that is truly what this book had going for it, and it was completely lost when Dash and Lily had met.
After hearing so many serious fans of this book be disappointed by the sequel, I don't think I'm interested enough to continue.
I can't even finish this. The pretension nauseates me. When page upon page is spent quoting books in an effort to... I don't know. Reinforce that the character is smart? It's like a brick to the head. I don't need you to prove to me how smart your character is. How edgy and hipster he is. How quirky and earnest she is. Just show me in context with an interesting storyline (which it has), and strong characters (which it could have had.)
Fine, I will admit to being silently judgemental of stupid people at times, but it's the snobby air that Dash takes here that really rubs me the wrong way and made me want to jump into the novel wielding a giant tuna fish so this kid could get a well-deserved slap across the face.Also, I think pretty much every adult in the northern hemisphere knows about how certain elements of Christmas are derived from pagan Yuletide celebrations.
This book put me in such a Holiday mood that I immediately downloaded the movie Almost Christmas on my computer upon starting it.
Or maybe I do, but I just can’t think of any right now.
I’m still recuperating from the Christmas love.
No Canadian in their right mind would wish for winter to come.
Dash and Lily do not know each other, but slowly they will.
Dash finds a book leading to Lily if he dares and he does dare indeed.
Dash thought he was in love once, perhaps he was wrong.
So anyway, lovely book.
I loved the characters and reading from their perspectives and how different they were.
The premise and the plot and a lot of the quotes from this book were SO GREAT.
My main hang up was that the two main characters used words and phrases that even I didn't know or wouldn't use and I am TWENTY FIVE.
Obviously, teenagers are awesome and can speak however the heck they want, but sometimes when YA books portray teenagers as knowing everything and speaking really audaciously, it irks me.
BUT OVERALL GREAT IF YOU LIKE CONTEMP YOU WILL PROBABLY LIKE THIS.
This went on through-out the story with them both giving each other things to do and then leave the notebook in weird places or with people they recruited.
At some point they do want to meet each other but some things go wrong and Dash has to run around and try to find Lily.
Lily had just posted a sign where Dash lived and was on her way walking one of her dogs from her pet sitting and he was a bull mastiff.
having pee moments and they kept going for quite some time.
Son complejos, con carácter y bien desarrollados.Eso es lo que hace que Cuaderno para dos no sea una novela ñoña romanticona.
Es una historia sobre dos amantes de los libros que deciden intercambiar experiencias y abrir su corazón sin conocerse de nada.
Justo cuando la novela parece cansar con los retos del cuaderno, las cosas cambian y ambos personajes maduran, así como la historia.
Me gustan esos cambios en las novelas, donde se abandona esa 'base' para convertir la historia en algo mejor.En general me ha gustado mucho.
“The important people in our lives leave imprints. They may stay or go in the physical realm, but they are always there in your heart, because they helped form your heart. There’s no getting over that.”This book was worth reading for this scene alone. I’ve been missing my best friend a lot, especially with the holidays coming up. Reading something like this was what I needed to be reminded of.
This was such a cute book and I'm happy that I read it just in time for Christmas! I couldn't give it a 5/5 (even though I loved the plot) because I never really connected to the characters and they annoyed me at times. However, definitely read this if you haven't, especially during December!
We had our first real snow this weekend and the advent season is approaching, so I decided to pick up Dash & Lily's Book of Dares to get in the mood for Christmas – at least a little bit.
The spirit of the festive season came across in a great way and I enjoyed the dares passing between Lily and Dash with the help of a red notebook.
If you are looking for a light and sweet read (that still has a little special touch) to get in the mood for Christmas and snow, I would recommend you give this book a try.
I highly recommend Dash & Lily's Book of Dares.DELIGHTFUL.Dash & Lily’s Book of Dares is the perfect Christmas read.
It took me around New York in the busiest time of the year with Dash’s abhorrence versus Lily’s ecstasy for the holidays.
It kinda remind me of the movie Serendipity: same Christmas-in-New-York setting with the same non-meetings but with the longing of meeting the one another.Dash and Lily are the total opposites.
I love how they are solid and yet they do not overpower the main characters.Dash & Lily’s Book of Dares is a story of what could be the machinings of first love set in snow-capped New York.
sorry for being a poopie buddy reader @ annie ;-;this was cute tho, at least things are consistent. RTC ?? maybe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Buddy read and reread  with the #1 dash and lily fanatictruthfully i dont remember much from this book besides the excellent dosage of dry humour and the cute winter feels it gave me
2.5 stars.
Ok so this has potential to be cute and the writing was solid, but...
it just felt like it took place in some alternate version of reality?
One where every pretentious, condescending hipster teen is straight out of a John Green novel.
I think I stuck with it because I wanted to like the story, but Dash was BEYOND irritating.
If you like the kind of worlds and characters John Green comes up with then you'll probably be a fan of this one, too.
I gave it an extra star for Lily's holiday cheer, but otherwise wasn't particularly into it.
I was looking for some young adult Christmas books to read over the holidays and I chose Dash & Lily’s Book of Dares &  Let It Snow . I thought Dash & Lily was going to be a cute, Christmas read and nothing more. I didn’t expect it to be so witty and ingenious. I loved Dash straight away. Some people will certainly find him obnoxious at first (he’ll quite happily refer to himself as erudite and bookish), but I love a guy who’s articulate without being pretentious. We’re introduced to
I was looking for some young adult Christmas books to read over the holidays and I chose Dash & Lily’s Book of Dares & 
. I thought Dash & Lily was going to be a cute, Christmas read and nothing more.
And this (wonderful, brilliant idea) sends him on a journey where impulsiveness is a requirement.Dash & Lily is one of those books that made me want to go on an adventure.
It’s one of those books that reminded me that while spending all day reading is a wonderful thing, I didn’t want to be one of those people that envies the lives of fictional characters.
The choice, I think, is obvious: You take down the red notebook and open it.When Dash opens the cover he finds a note on the first page.I’ve left some clues for you.If you want them, turn the page.If you don’t, put the book back on the shelf, please.There are more instructions leading him to other books with other instructions.
The red notebook becomes their only means of communication, and over a relatively short period of time they begin to share a little bit of themselves with the other.
But, I didn't really care since this book was an absolute hoot!I really don't have to much to say about this book, except It was freaken hilarious and I don't think I've had so much fun reading about two characters who don't even meet till almost the end of the book, but never the less, Dash and Lily are quite the amusing couple.
It was the perfect pace for a fun filled adventure around the streets of NY.Bottom line, Dash & Lily's Book of Dares was a really fun read.
What began as a literary treasure hunt flirtation between a couple of cute kids quickly became...A truly delightful and innocent romance.
I mean, it wasn't just the literary side or the well-spoken Snarl or the impulsive Lily.
It was the entire shape of the novel with all of the normal conventions: the shy flirtations, the near misses, the almost-meetings, and then, most dangerously, the other boys and girls.
It was all delightful and sooooo innocent.
:) Even the Crimson Alert and the Sweaty Santa, it evokes a different sensation in adults, still managed to come across as INNOCENT on the page.And I liked it.
for your sake), I just don't find them as easy to review as fantasy or paranormal because not only have I only just started reading contemporary, but most of the time, I feel I can seriously relate in one way or the other.A snarly boy named Dash finds a red moleskine notebook right next to his favourite author's books in The Strand*, this notebook has been written by the sensible and quirky Lily.
The result is hilarious!The book is told by both Dash and Lily's perspective and I loved how distinct and fresh both of their personalities were.
Favorite Dash lines:I’m looking for ‘Fat Hoochie Prom Queen.’ No response.
It’s a BOOK, not a person.Hello, my name ees Lebkuchen Spice, and I vant to show you my coooooookies….It looks like Animal and Miss Piggy had sex, and this was the spawn.Ex-squeamish me?!With all due respect, if you’re forty three, then I’m a fetus.Because you know how a cow chews grass?
Well, green tea tastes like French-kissing that cow after it’s done chewing all that grass.LMAO!Lily is quirky and funny as hell!
I love books about freaks.” Because I am one.
Cursing – not so dashing.Great book that’s a perfect read for the Christmas holidays!
And the portion of this book where Dash and Lily's relationship was confined to the notebook probably earned 5 stars from me.
(hide spoiler)]The other thing I really didn't like was the ending.
You know, I think that there is a way to end a book at the beginning of a scene and still impart a sense of closure to it, but this book did not do that.
So, a star gets lost, sorry.I believe this book covers the dates Dec 21st through Jan 1st.
Anyway, just thought I would let anyone know who is like me and can only tolerate Christmas theme books at Christmas time.
Two unusual individuals communicate through a moleskin notebook and kindle an awkward romance - but meeting in real life brings a myriad of difficulties they never imagined.
There were so many interesting ideas in this book: Can love really bloom from interactions not taking place in real life?
Neither Dash or Lily grabbed my heart, and I could barely connect to them through all the random events taking place (for example, when Dash is attacked with snowballs by little kids while carrying a bag of yogurt).Books from these two authors may not be my thing, but fans of David Levithan and Rachel Cohn's previous works will probably enjoy Dash & Lily's Book of Dares.Want to read more of my writing?
Before you start throwing things at me, remember the Christmas spirit.
I know everybody loves this book and thinks Lily & Dash are #Goals!
but Nah!
This book was so boring I had to force myself to finish it.
I expected this to be cute and sweet little holiday romance but I just did not enjoy this book.
Lily and Dash have ZERO chemistry and I just kind of skimmed the last 20 pages.
Lily was not an enjoyable character for me.
Not every book is meant for every reader.
Happy Holidays Everybody!
Imagine my surprise when I found that what was between the pages was instead a profound quest for the meaning of life and love; a story of self-discovery and humour beyond measure.The chapters were written by two different authors - Rachel Cohn writing Lily's and David Levithan writing Dash's.
Apparently (according to the information at the end of the book) they swapped chapters much like Dash and Lily swapped dares.
It’s that leap, that understanding, that leads to meaning.
Dash and Lily’s Book of Dares is a wacky romp through New York, starting in the famous book store, The Strand.
The story starts out with a red notebook and a dare.
At the urging of her brother, she sets up the red notebook for the perfect person to find at the bookstore she loves.
Her brother is in town but he’s caught up in a new intense romance and can’t be bothered to entertain Lily, she’s bored and alone, so Dash’s counter dares couldn’t have happened at a more perfect time.
Dash & Lily's Book of Dares was a ton of fun to read.
Dash, an incredibly bookish and snarly 16 years old with a love for the word fanciful, accepts the dare and starts a series of events, one more hilarious than the other, which will bring the two teens to chase each other around New York City in a sort of comedy of errors.
These kids, Dash and Lily, are so unbelievably erudite and bookish that I feel like a dimwit when reading their dialogues.
And if I feel like a dimwit at the venerable age of 36, what is a proper teenager going to feel?
And so it all begins, we go with Dash and Lily in this ride, from dares to locations, to heartwarming confessions and hilarious moments.
Dash and Lily are just wonderful characters, so likable...one of those characters you wish they were real and you actually knew them.
They are witty, deep, sensitive, funny, sarcastic and nerdy ^^ This is just such and endearing and heartwarming story,and of course full of craziness (the park scene is HILARIOUS)and also wonderful secondary characters (her aunt, her cousin and Boomer were my favorites).
"I was attempting to write the story of my life. It wasn't so much about plot. It was much more about character." - Dash
So for the longest time I blamed my lack of affection for the holiday as the reason I did not enjoy this book at all, now I realize it is not my fault, but the book is truly horrid (sorry Torie and all my friends that loved it, but I am not really sorry, because I hate it).It follows Dash and Lily as they sent each other clues via books.
I do not think she was superficial, she did seem to love Christmas and all that, but she seemed like a cut out carbon copy of one of those romantic comedies where the girl’s sole purpose is to be there for the bettering of the man character, not a manic pixie dream girl, but something along those lines.
I was expecting this book to put me in a festive mood even though Christmas is still months away.
I thought this book was like those lights, fun and changing and just awesome.I didn't get any of that.
I didn't even feel anything other than the need to finish this book soon so that I can move on to the next one.What I did get were two annoying, pretentious main characters who irked me like crazy.
They didn't seem like realistic characters to me.
You know that feeling you get when you see someone trying to act really smart and cool and completely failing at it?
