https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/303428.The_Dark_of_the_Sun
‘The Dark of the Sun’ from Wilbur Smith is an action adventure novel, which is tremendously fast paced but extremely brutal and violent in narration.
Armed with a mission to liberate ‘Port Reprieve’ - a diamond-mining town inhabited with women and children - cut off by the fighting and retrieve a priceless consignment of diamonds, ‘Bruce Curry’ and his band of mercenaries travel through extremely difficult terrain and hostile territories plagued by a multitude of opposition in the form of rebels, bandits and UN peacekeeping forces.
Bettie's Books
More importantly (to Commander Curry) there's a hot French widow among them, too.Initially the plan is for Curry and his Mercs (diseased-but-faithful Sergeant-Major Rofi, ostracized alcoholic surgeon-turned-soldier Mike Haig, loose-cannon type "A" psycho Wally Hendry, and a couple platoons of gendarmes) to put the civilians on a train and ride with them to safety in Katanga.
Wilbur Smith is an internationally best-selling writer of adventure and intrigue potboilers set in contemporary and historical times.
Smith, at least in this early novel, comes across as a man of his time and place, with notions and prejudices shaped by his upbringing in white-ruled apartheid Rhodesia.
His eyes were glazing with the infectious hysteria to which the African is so susceptible; he had snatched up his rifle and was holding it across his chest; already his body was beginning to jerk convulsively as he chanted.I made it to page 75, at which point I finally realized Smith was not joking and really believed the booga-booga stereotypes he was passing on.
My third Wilbur Smith read, following on from EAGLE IN THE SKY and SHOUT AT THE DEVIL.Be warned, this is a grisly book.
In fact, it's one of the most brutal stories I've ever read.
It's an action-adventure template, a 'men on a mission' narrative that rarely slows down.
A romantic sub-plot helps humanise the lead characters rather than get in the way of the story.The setting is the Belgian Congo, and truly it seems one of the most dangerous places on Earth.
Smith tackles another area of Africa and brings it to life with the same authenticity as in the rest of his books.
I saw the movie many moons ago and it was completely over-the-top.
Machete attacks, male rape, cynicism, greed and ignorance in prodigious amounts.
The movie differs a bit including a former Nazi mercenary as part of the group who continues to wear his Iron Cross after WW2 and in Africa..
That character seems to be a mix of the real soldiers of fortune Siegfried Müller and Rolf Steiner.
Apologies, I digress.
The book is also over-the-top.
The romantic side story is dross and the fact that some mercenaries have no military background strains credibility.
This was Wilbur Smith's second novel, and is a stand alone. It is an historical fiction covering the conflict in the Congo during the 1960's. It has great action (although I saw the various conflicts for the protagonist coming from a mile away on this one). I like the way Wilbur Smith writes, and it is fun reading his novels in chronological order. I look forward to the rest of his books.
I LOVE Wilbur Smith. This is one of his very first books and it just doesn't have what the later ones do. This reminds me of Dirk Pitt novel instead. It's not horrible but not good enough for me to force myself to read when there's so many other good books out there. Couldn't finish it.
Pretty good boy's own adventure yarn from the master of those types of books. Details are vague as I read it many years ago but remember enjoying it at the time though not the staying power of other Smith works.
Not bad. The Congo Crisis in the mid 1960's is a fascinating situation to me. A bit of corny romantic subplot but not too much mushy stuff.
There are times where Smith's skill in his craft comes to light, where you can feel the sweltering heat of the jungle and smell the various smells (most of them unpleasant) that the characters encounter.This is a bleak, nihilistic story, even moreso than the film, which itself is probably the most violent PG-rated film I've ever seen.
They're both grand adventures, if one can handle the raw violence and brutality contained with them, and the repulsive nature of the secondary antagonist (the film changes his name and makes him an ex-Nazi officer, which is probably a bit more on-the-nose than Smith had intended--or is it?).
Niektórzy piszą, że to dlatego, że jest to jedna z pierwszych powieści Smitha, ale "Gdy poluje lew" było pierwsze!
Jest cały czas poprawnie, ale brakuje mocy - i nie mam tu na myśli wartkiej akcji, tylko czegoś, co sprawia, że inne książki Smitha to wielka literatura porywająca za serce.Wątki romantyczne pojawiły się w każdej książce Smitha jaką czytałem i wszystkie wydawały mi się bardziej żywe i skomplikowane.
Ten z "Katangi" jest żenujący, banalny i prosty - zupełnie jakby ktoś inny to napisał.Bruce'owi Curry'emu też jest daleko do bohatera pokroju Seana Courteneya, a jego przemyślenia są dość banalne.Mimo że autor na pytanie o sugerowaną kolejność czytania jego książek odpowiada, żeby czytać je po prostu po kolei, to jednak daruję sobie pojedyncze powieści będące thrillerami i będę kontynuował sagi rodu Courteneyów i Ballantyne'ów.
Boy, is it dark reading at times though.
Rape, pillage and battle gore are all vividly described in detail and some of the language I thought was pretty authentic especially of the time it was written (1960's) but a lot of the language wouldn't get past censors now.
Racist language is pretty prevalent.
Still, love Wilbur Smith's writing.
I've not read anyone that writes adventure stories so well.
Maybe Clive Cussler is close but I've not read any of his books that have matched Smith's.
Yet.Brisk read and I'll be reading more of his books this year no doubt.
Eén van mijn vrienden vindt dit het absolute meesterschap. Tja, ik heb het uitgelezen om zeker een score te kunnen geven. En het gaat dan nog over een thema dat mij nauw aan het hart ligt. Smaken verschillen, zeker weten.
Good, old-fashioned adventure yarn. Smith creates the occasional unlikely scenario but, for the most part, keeps the narrative going at a 'page-turner' pace. One thread is left dangling and that is bothersome.
As ever the detail can be a tad too much but I love his story lines and characters. It's wonderfully old fashioned in today's terms, probably unpc but blood sweat and tears it is!!!
I am a big Wilbur Smith fan and whilst this does work it also is not as refined as later books, worth reading just not the best.
Un buon romanzo di Wilbur Smith accattivante nella trama e nulla di più
Muy tópico y típico, como si fuera una novelita
Fast moving, good action.
Αλλά αυτό που με χάλασε κάπως, ήταν η με το ζόρι ιστορία αγάπης ενός εκ των πρωταγωνιστών με μια όμορφη κοπέλα, οι μερικοί/αρκετοί χαζοί διάλογοι, η διαμάχη αυτού του πρωταγωνιστή με έναν άλλο συνάδελφό του μισθοφόρο, αλλά και γενικά οι κύριοι πρωταγωνιστές, που ο καθένας τους είχε και από έναν προσωπικό εφιάλτη, λες και έπρεπε να τους λυπηθώ εγώ που κατέληξαν μισθοφόροι στο Κονγκό...
Επίσης, η πλοκή δεν είχε ξαφνικά γυρίσματα και αποκαλύψεις, ούτε μυστήριο φυσικά, απλά ήταν μια περιπέτεια, που αρκετά μετά την μέση του βιβλίου, δεν με ενδιέφερε και τόσο πολύ, λόγω της ιστορίας αγάπης και της διαμάχης των δυο που προανέφερα, αλλά και μιας ξαφνικής χλιαρότητας, ίσως, του συγγραφέα.

The first 75 pages were a drag, I quit three times but my obsessive compulsion to finish a book took over, and that made all the difference.
After Bruce and his entourage of mercenaries reach Port Reprieve, the plot picks a surprisingly fast pace.
Wilbur Smith does not spare any details of the violence and killing involved, some of which are really graphic, I was even surprised by his liberal use racist and chauvinist comments.
The romantic subplot is predictable and but what makes this 267 page beer promotion pamphlet a page turner is the multiple high drama incidents and "whatever bad can happen, will happen" atmosphere.

Set during the Congo Crisis of the mid-60's, the book tells the story of a band of mercenaries on a relief mission to rescue the people of a stranded township ...
actually, they're sent in to recover a fortune in diamonds, and the relief mission is just for show.A straight forward story, with one dimensional characters and every macho cliché in the world.
It's a book of its time and the ideals of machismo are hard-drinking, hard-fighting and hard-womanising.
That said, it is fast paced and exciting, so if you're not after something with any level of sophistication, it's actually not a bad read.
This is Wilbur Smith's second novel, a modern epic with swift-flowing, action-packed narrative.Bruce Curry sets out with a trainload of mercenaries to relieve a mining town in the heart of the African jungle. The journey turns out to be a nightmare, softened only by Curry's meeting with Shermaine, a Belgian girl with whom he falls passionately in love.In a sinister atmosphere of omnipotent evil, Curry struggles to preserve the new tenderness that has grown between himself and Shermaine, and fights to stay alive.Taut with sustained excitement, this powerful novel puts Wilbur Smith at the forefront of today's storytellers.
A thriller set in the Congo in the 1960s, following a group of expats on a rescue mission.
An enjoyable novel: fast-paced, straightforward and plenty of action.
I've been a fan of Robert Ludlum for a long time; while I wouldn't put the story up there with my favorite Ludlum novels, it had a similar feel and pace with a very different setting.
Living in Africa and seeing the uneasy relationship between former colonials and native peoples together lent plenty of credence to the character's interactions with each other.
If I pass another Wilbur Smith novel in the future, I'll be sure to read it.
The Dark of the Sun - Wilbur Smith ... Four white men on a mercenary mission to retrieve a cutoff town and precious diamonds... On arrival three get transformed for various reasons Bruce the commander gets the best in finding Shermaine as his life partner. The enemy within Hendry plots to kill Bruce which ends up in the death of Hendry. Entire story line is full of violence unabated till the end. Wilbur handling the intricate human relations and sentiments is the highlight of the plot...The fastest read of the year...
for the ultimate heist they'll pay the ultimate price bruce curry leads a group of mercenary men with the dubious support of 3 white officers.
the mission is to relieve a mining town cut off by fighting and to retrieve a priceless consignment of diamonds h/e they face hostility in the form of bandits and guerrillas added to which he has a rogue officer in his midst.
plus he finds himself falling in love ....
once again very well told with the knowledge of the country and political situation shining thru together with that of local forces short read - 280 pages bev
A gritty, action-packed story set during the civil war in the Congo. A group of gendermes and mercenaries must rescue a group of people and diamonds from Port Retrieve, travelling through enemy territory by train and road. Struggles within the group and from threats without. The enemy are tribesmen from other factions and they show no mercy to man, woman or child. Scary to think of what is happening. An interesting story that takes your breath away at times (3.5 stars)
