https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2814860-nicholas
One of two Newbery Honor books selected in 1925 - along with Anne and Dillwn Parrish's  The Dream Coach  - this holiday fantasy was penned by one of the most influential children's librarians of the early twentieth century, giving it added appeal to those with an interest in the history of children's literature. Despite that fact, and its status as a Newbery title, I found Nicholas: A Manhattan Christmas Story an oddly off-putting little book, and probably would have awarded it only one star, we
There is no time to really appreciate or feel the "magic" with which the reader is constantly inundated.Despite these flaws - and they are not inconsiderable - there were things I enjoyed about Nicholas: A Manhattan Christmas Story - from the many references to the world of children's literature, both classic and (then) contemporary, to the evident admiration the author expresses, through her characters, for figures such as Washington Irving and George Washington.
fI have a goal to read every Newbery Award and Honor book - and a year from now there will likely be 400 or more of them.
Well, just like the guy who wants to try a delicacy from every culture in the world, he gets a lot of wonderful foods but sometimes just has to plug his nose and swallow.
If you are like me and have the goal to read all of these books, then you have my sympathies.
However, it is selling for only about $35 on Amazon, which is a lot less than most 90 year old award winning books which are out of print.
Admission: I only skimmed this , but I read enough outright to state that ideas in this book had great potential.
Premise: a very small boy (12-14 inches) named Nicholas travels (why?) from Holland to NYC arriving on Xmas Eve, a time more magical than others - but then this NYC is more magical than most.
This is the book's top layer; the under layer is where the potential great bits were.
Then there was a massive party at the NY Public Library (complete with roaring lions!) in which characters and authors step out of books to take part But the author does almost nothing with these ideas - other than have Washington Irving act as Nicholas' tour guide for a bit.
It's interesting to note that the first Doctor Dolittle story had only been in print a few years when Nicholas was initially written.) I especially liked the inclusion of Kate Douglas Wiggin in the Christmas party, since about twenty-five years before the creation of Nicholas she had authored perhaps the finest children's Christmas book of them all, The Birds' Christmas Carol.
The second thing that stood out to me positively in this book is the reverence with which Nicholas and his friends view George Washington, and how enthusiastically they celebrate his birthday anniversary.
A live Dutch doll about eight inches tall, named Nicholas, visits a fantasyfied New York City to see the sights.This book could have been so, so, so good.
It's really clearly aimed at kids who live in 1920s New York and have the ability to follow in Nicholas's sightseeing footsteps.WHICH IS SAD.
A book that did give the atmosphere of these little hole-in-the-wall shops and big department stores would be an invaluable time-capsule story for its era!
The main character is never explained.
Apparently he is based on Ms. Moore's story time doll/puppet, but since that is never explained, the story has even less meaning.
Basically, Nicholas is introduced to literary characters in the public library, and statues in Manhattan, and told all about General Washington as he tours the city.
I couldn't find any purpose or theme, except that in each chapter Nicholas visits someone.
I also had no idea why a 21-year-old young man was one of his two main companions.
Nicholas had a few good moments, but I definitely understand why it is out of print.
Yaaaawn.
This was soooo hard to read.
Eight-inch Nicholas is traveling around NYC meeting storybook/mythical people, seeing the sites, and attending parties from Christmas time through Valentine’s (don’t forget George Washington’s birthday, either!).
However the narration was done, I could not get involved.
I could not care about Nicholas’s travels, even though I think the base idea is decent.
(It could be like telling kids who don’t get to travel much about the wonders of New York through the aid fairytale characters, right?
That’s just not what I got.) It felt like the boring things were narrated.
The boring dialogue was used.
I agree with the reviewer who said it seemed like a New York travel guide. It's somewhat interesting, but the story does not flow well. In fact, I'm not really sure what the story was about after reading 75 pages. Maybe it would be better reading at Christmas time, but I really don't think so.
Newbery Honor Book 1925
