https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8646.Crow_Lake
Kate, the third child, narrates the story twenty years later, looking back on their childhood from her now removed life in Toronto.
Through now adult eyes, Kate sees the struggles, heartbreak and hardship in the family and also those the community battled which she was not aware of as a child.
She is also forced to see what Matt sacrificed so that she might excel in her chosen field.Mary Lawson has that rare gift of being able to place her reader so exactly in the shoes of the narrator.
You don’t hear or see the story; you feel it as Kate does.
. just one more dropped stitch in a family tapestry full of holes.'This is a story of strong familial bonds forged early in life, then eroding from deep-seated resentments, guilt, and an ingrained reluctance to speak the truth and set things straight.
This author has a knack for writing characters so vivid that you would recognize any one of them if he or she came knocking at your front door.
Luke, Matt, Katie, and Bo Morrison, orphaned early in the novel, are struggling to make a life without their parents.
I cannot say enough about the author's skill with character development.
I grew up in the high plains of eastern Colorado (Kent Haruf “territory”) and there were parts of this novel that echo my own rural background – especially her description of life for farm families.The story details the struggles of four siblings who were orphaned when their parents are killed.
Nothing very dramatic happens yet it elegantly portrays events that affect most families – hopeful aspirations, misunderstandings, missed chances and sibling rivalry.I have several brothers and sisters of my own so parts of this story provoked reflections of my own life.
“I believe we have choice. The idea that we are carried along by fate, unable to resist or change direction, sounds suspiciously like an excuse to me.” Kate Morrison, Assistant Professor (Invertebrate Ecology), faces a problem. She has been invited to her nephew’s eighteenth birthday celebration which she plans to attend. However, the invitation extends to her bringing a friend, and the current man in her life has seen the invitation. The problem is that much as she cares for Professor Daniel C
Since the time of their great-grandmother Morrison, obtaining a good education has been a primary consideration in the Morrison family as it provided not only good opportunities, but also choice which meant that one could choose to live on a farm in the middle of nowhere if one wanted to, as her father did: “In the living room of his house he had a bookcase full of books, and rarer still, he had the leisure time to read them.
What I feel is that, were I Canadian and from similar land, I too might have imagined it as she did.Recently Goodreader Larry Hoffer wrote: "Did you ever get the feeling you and an author would be great friends (or perhaps mortal enemies), simply based on the books they write and the way they tell stories?" I have that feeling about Mary Lawson.
(Don't worry, I worked all that stuff out a long time before she died, and we became best adult girl friends.) In my opinion, Mary Lawson offers the best a fiction writer can offer: the possibility for a reader to suddenly have a dark room lit up and realize the monsters you've installed there don't exist.
Već sam pisala o lepoti kanadske književnosti... Ovo je jedna od kanadskih autorki čije knjige obavezno treba pročitati... I koje se dugo pamte... A svaka njena nova knjiga s čežnjom i nestrpljenjem se iščekuje... Jedva čekam da je neko od vas pročita i da čujem vaše utiske... :)
This may be because it ticks so many of my personal boxes, but I’ve been wandering the house since I finished it, ploughing my way through laundry, dinner, dishes, trying desperately to find my footing again, while I’m processing.Within the first few pages of the book, Katherine’s parents are killed in a car accident, sending the four children on a confusing, agonizing struggle to put their lives back together again.
“If you parents died when you were seven, it’s barely twenty years.”“It feels like centuries,” I said.
Really the book would have been just as good without that family and the secrets, but I suppose it did add another dimension to the storyline and where one character ended up, just probably not as strongly as the author intended it to.Despite how beautifully written it was, how well the author handled the ups and downs of small-town life and tragic struggles, the book held little content other than a small step in the direction of personal growth.
The narrator of the story speaks and thinks like a 50+-year-old, and I kept shaking my head to clear it when I was reminded that she was in her late 20s.
hate books that keep "the big moment!!!!!!!" until the last few pages, but spend the previous 300+ pages muttering dark asides such as "But that was before...it...happened" or "If I only knew what was about to happen, I wouldn't have stayed" or "He didn't realize his life was about to change" or variations upon that theme, so that "the big moment!!!!!!!!" ends up feeling anticlimactic at best.
Its the kind of thing that you can't let anyone else listen to, because what the wailing is is the pain leaving your body.
Kate's parents are both killed in a car crash when she is seven years old, on a day that had begun like any other.
Losing both parents at seven years old.
Its a fascinating look at time.
As a younger sister, as a victim of parental loss, as someone who is seeking to define herself as an adult in the face of grief, and as someone who has a family (albeit a broken one) I found this book to be enormously powerful, perhaps because it is so relevant.
The Morrison children have been left orphans in the farming community of Crow Lake which is part of the wild terrain in Ontario, causing them to become a project of sorts for the townspeople.
Meanwhile a nearby family the Pyes, are having plenty of tragedy themselves.
The eldest two Morrison boys have worked on the Pye farm on occasion throughout the years and it's no surprise that the two families are drawn together in grief.
It was chosen as a Todays Bookclub read, where most of the books picked are very popular.
I personally kept hoping for a bit more plot, but it's still a nice read.
Mary Lawson captures the emotions and narratives of one family in Northern Ontario and puts them onto the page and into the hearts of readers.
Told from the perspective of Kate, we are privy to the gifts, challenges, and tragedies that the Morrisons encounter, endure and surmount.As the novel opens, the four children - Luke, Matt, Kate and Bo - are depicted as living a comfortable life with their middle class parents in a remote area of Canada.
Bo, the rebellious one and a toddler when her parents die, is only aware of herself.Ms. Lawson writes beautifully and the book is an examination of love, family, projection, and finally, acceptance.
In the right melancholic frame of mind, I enjoyed both of these, but Crow Lake ultimately wins out with a more relatable story.Kate Morrison, twenty-eight year-old environmental biology professor at an unnamed (but probably Toronto-based) university, reminisces about her life in Crow Lake, a sugar beet farming community with little more than a schoolhouse, a general store, and a Presbyterian church to barely mark it on the map.
I believe this was Ms. Lawson's first novel; I'd like to visit her more recent works as I'm plenty certain she's got more lovely stories of rural Ontario life and family to share with us.
Crow Lake is undeniably evocative of rural Canada, but at times the pacing is really slow and dry, not really the kind of story I often read.
This story is about much more than relationships.
It is about life.
It is about organisms that live in ponds and how they cling to life.
It is about education and how important it is and how, sometimes, you miss life as it is happening.
It is a lyrical and wonderfully magical story that ensnares you in its telling.
It was the Eleventh Commandment, carved on its very own tablet of stone and presented specifically to those of Presbyterian persuasion: Thou Shalt Not Emote."Don't get me wrong, Crow Lake has got a great premise and interesting characters but the dysfunction and hardship described seemed rather prefabricated.
In fact, one of the issues dealt with in the book is the emotional detachment which people create for themselves as protection against loss.Another aspect of this detachment, and one which also did not help to endear Kate to me, was her determination to not just shut out her family, but also to use the acquisition of knowledge as an escape mechanism.All in all, it was an interesting book, but the aloofness (in generous terms) of the main character made it sometimes hard work to want to work with the story and see the characters open up about their lives.
Book #26 of 2009Back to the serious side of things I guess...
The whole book builds up to this supposedly huge catastrophe, which isn't really a catastrophe at all, but a decision moving life one way instead of another.
But the supposed catastrophe isn't even really the point of the book, it's the narrator's view of said catastrophe that is really the purpose of the book it seems, and the climax is such a small mental shift in the way she looks at "the catastrophe".
The narrator herself isn't really an overly likeable character in my opinion.
I read this book several months ago and am still having a hard time reviewing this properly.
To say I loved this book would be a huge understatement.
It was such a powerful story and one that stays with you for a long time to come.
This is the story of Kate Morrison and her tragic childhood, after being orphaned quite young.
I found myself quite emotional throughout the book… not because the subject matter was sad, but because Mary Lawson made me feel everything.
The story was told in such a subtle way so that I felt everything but wasn’t manipulating into feeling it.
A caterpillar, within a cocoon over a set period of time, transforms into a butterfly.
Figuratively, humans who have experienced tragedies are like caterpillars; except that the cocoon period varies from individual to individual, as does the degree of struggle required to resurrect anew from the experience.
Mary Lawson, in her novel “Crow Lake,” not only weaves a beautiful story of tragedy and transformation she does so with an impassioned pen and with a deep understanding of nuances, frailties, strengths and imperfections of the human experience.
I really enjoyed this book. The story moved along slowly but never failed to keep my attention. I hated to see it end. I look forward to reading more by this writer. Highly recommend.
It has a poorly assembled storyline which is supposed to develop into an emotional epiphany for the flat protagonist "Kate"; however, by the end of the book, Kate has learned almost nothing about herself and, what she has "learned", was not picked up by her after years of emotional self-probing, but laid out plainly for her in speeches by other characters in the story.
Too bad, since he's one of the characters I actually liked.I did appreciate the author's description of life for farming families in early northern Ontario.
One way to tell if I have enjoyed a book is as I near the end I purposely slow my reading down.
I don't want my relationship with the characters to end I want to savor the final knowing.....
Such was the case with Crow lake.
Kate is an academic from a rural Northern Canadian small town.
At 27 she is falling in love with Daniel,a fellow academic who has less complicated background.
For her to come to terms with this, she needs to gain insight into why it is not easy to let love in.
Good story. I liked Katie the main character of the story and adored her family members. Especially Bo. I could picture that child exactly! Touching but a short book. I actually wanted more.
It took me a month to read Crow Lake from beginning to end.
Not because it's a long book, but because it's a slow book.
The plot will not change the world, but by the end of the book, I felt like I'd met four people and I was sad to leave them.
I'd love to accomplish that in my writing.***wondering why all my reviews are five stars?
Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read.
Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement.
I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
This is very cleanly written, so it's a fast read.
Just a good simple story about 4 children who lose their parents in a car accident and the struggles they go through to stay together as a family.
The narrator looks back on how the choices each of them made altered their own lives as well as the lives of their siblings.
I've been reading a lot of emotionally wrenching stuff lately, so this was a nice calm read for a change!I liked her second novel (The Other Side of the Bridge) a little better because it has more depth, but this one is good too.
This was the story of a family turned upside down after the parents are killed in a crash. The writer beautifully evokes the emotions of the children left behind and the starkness of their northern Canada surroundings. However, like the Canadian wilderness this story left me a bit cold. The protagonist Katy wasn't very likable and was a bit stilted. The plot didn't seem to go much of anywhere and the ending was abrupt and unsatisfying.
a fabulous read, beautifully written with vivid characters. It's a short, easy read but I found myself very moved by the representation of the Morrison family. This novel is never overly sentimental or gushing - it's one which will stay with me for a long time and whose characters I will remember fondly - something which doesn't happen that often to me! Since there isn't the option to give 4.5, I've given it 5, only because I'm probably too harsh at times....
A hundred stars! This book is sublime. It's just perfect.
Ratings (1 to 5)Writing: 4Plot: 4Characters: 4Emotional impact: Overall rating: 4
I am in awe of the ability of Mary Lawson to have created such a beautiful narrative in her debut. The story is so real and relatable, I am guilty of placing myself and my life into so many of the family scenes as they were constructed. The plot slowly gains momentum, and reaches a very satisfying ending. Gripping, insightful, and heartfelt. I highly recommend this one.
