https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/819048.Curious_George_and_the_Firefighters
Curious George is such a delightful character. He has always been one of my favorites. He is a major part of my family. In this adventure, George is visiting a fire station. When the fire siren goes off, the firefighters are off to save the day. Little do they know George is along for the ride. George finds his own way to be useful, as always. =)
Summary: George goes into a fire station on a field trip.
He is getting the tour of the place from the chief and notices a shiny pole in the corner, he wonders where the pole leads to.
George tries to help, but gets told to stay out of the way.
George didn't originally begin juggling, but by being told it wasn't safe for him to help with the fire, he was able to calm children down who were frightened from the fire.
Funny book about George who just wants to join the firefighters. When he isn’t allowed to he juggles some baseballs to make some children smile during the fire and he ended up helping the day by distracting the kids.
This book was about curious george and the firefighters and it *sniff* made me cry.*sob* DON'T ASK
My daughter and I both love Curious George books. It one was great as well. Liked how they did fire station tour, and gave the kids their own fire hats.
It was a good book because there was a monkey driving a fire truck, and I haven't seen that before.
Curious George is a monkey always getting into trouble but then the trouble always turns into good luck. This book was funny.
He made all the children around very happy when he started juggling and the firemen acknowledged him for being a great help.
I always really liked Curious George stories and think my tutee loved this story also when we read it together.
I think this book is great when we are talking to children about what firefighters do on a regular basis.I like how Curious George books are a series of books, so if students really enjoy the Curious George books, they can continue to read these stories that are about him with different themes.
Curious George and the Firefighters is a great children book for Grades K – 2.
The book tell a story of little monkey names George who goes to the local Firehouse with the school kids for a field trip.
During the trip he finds all sorts of new things to explore and experience an adventure while the firefighters are called for an emergency.
Also, there are multiple illustrations per page, where the author wanted to show George activities and adventures.
I like how the book use an animal character to play the story with human character.
Synopsis: "It’s the formula for success for preschoolers—Curious George and fire trucks!
Curious George and the Firefighters is a story based on H.
Firefighters are a famously brave lot, but can they withstand a visit from one curious monkey?
For more monkey fun, investigate www.curiousgeorge.com and discover all the latest on Curious George books, promotions, games, activities, and more!"My Review: While Munchkin isn't really into Curious George anymore, he is really into firefighters and fire trucks.
He really had fun with this story and loved telling me about all the things George discovered in the fire station.
I also appreciated the classic illustration style of this book.
This app introduces what to do during reading at first: readers touch moving words to play sounds and animations, ask the related questions, browse hints for answers and touch the picture to find more animations.
Important words are moving among the sentences and a siren blares.
It feels like the book and pictures are alive.
Readers choose characters and record their voices to make puppet shows.
Children practice reading this book many times for their puppet shows, which can help them become fluent readers.
This digital story helps children's understanding as well with the "Read and Talk" option.
The story was alright, but there's this one thing that always bugs me about the Curious George stories: he's described as a monkey--but has no tail!
Doesn't that mean he's really an ape?In this story, the only trouble George causes is mixing up the firemen's gear so they can't respond to a call promptly.
My adult mind is imagining somebody pinned under a car or trapped in a burning building while the firemen are madly sorting out their gear and losing precious seconds--all because an inquisitive "monkey" isn't kept on a leash.
In this case, all is well and George ends up helping the firemen in a roundabout way and the delay is inconsequential.
You can hardly ever go wrong with everyone's loveable monkey!
(One of the first books written)Curious George books are simple life lessons (usually) for young children.
If ever you don't know what book to pick up to read to your child you can't go wrong with a Curious George book.
And generally there is a book to cover just about any situation your child is going through.
I read these books as a young child, and read them to my children and now am sharing them with my granddaughter as well....
stories to share with generations!
Well first off I love curious george and have since I was little.
I have always loved monkeys and I think that's why I liked these books.
I remember reading this book many times when I was younger.
And it's weird to go back and actually understand what its about and now knowing what the word curious actually means.
He gets very distracted by everything, kind of like little kids do and I think children would love this because its a monkey and not a kid!
Makes things more interesting.
This book is great for children.
It has great picture with different colors.
Also this book talk about firefighters which children love and it give an example for children to help.
This book is perfect to help a child with new vocabulary word.
This book also helps for children to see how to keep calm when fire is and also what thing does the fire station has.
One thing I didn’t like the In some cases the text shows up in the font and size you've chosen; in other places it shows up in such teeny-tiny type that even the kids can't read it.
Kindle recently had some wonderful sales on childrens books so my kids have found the joy of reading picture books on the Kindle-for-PC. This went over better than I had expected and would be a wonderful idea for parents traveling with little ones but not wanting to lug around a bunch of books. Just use your computer.George is always popular in my house. You would think that kids books these days are safe but I find myself screening many books, with George being an exception. You know what you are getting here.
I loved this book and think it would be great for children. Even though it might send the wrong message to kid's since George is always in trouble due to his curiosity, and he also gets out of it because he was just curious. I still think it is a great book for children that would set a great lesson to children with their parents guidance. I also loved the illustrations they were very descriptive and supported the text very well.
Oh silly Curious George is at it again in this cute board book. George mistakenly ends up at a fire when he stows away in the fire truck. He makes the situation not so scary for those young and concerned. My children (4 & 5) loved this story. They love George and they love firemen and firetrucks, they thought it was awesome.
Well, I love George in theory, but the stories are always a little funny. Still I like the idea of a curious little monkey roaming around and exploring and all the way causing trouble. I love the pictures of George. He is a great character, it's just that sometimes the story line is a little weird.
My five-year-old son picked this book out from the library last week. A monkey and a firetruck -- pretty much a no-fail combination. And it was. I don't like all of Curious George's New Adventures -- some of them fall pretty flat -- but this one works quite well, and the illustrations are adorable.
My three year old loves this book. When she was younger, she enjoyed the pictures and we made-up the story. Now she knows it word for word. This story seems a little weird to me as it really deters from the whole fire/fireman theme and gets into an odd baseball throwing thing. BUT the kids still love it.... Can't argue with that.
Because the girls, especially the little one, recall with horror that the firefighters placed George in jail in the original book, this was a more positive interaction for George and the firemen. Maybe it has now placed firefighters in the "good" category in Mimi's mind...not sure how I can get police in that category!
Curious George's curiosity leads him astray as he hitches a ride on a local firetruck. He wants to see the firefighters in action but is told its way too dangerous. Instead, George finds himself entertaining a group of children while the fire is put out. I love Curious George book because they explore so many things.
In this story, Curious George is on a field trip at the fire station with the local school kids. While they are their the firefighters get called to an emergency. George hops on the truck to go with the firefighters. He ends up cheering up all the kids at the scene of the fire by juggling. I would recommend this book for prek through 2nd grade.
this book is just great for children, it just show how children are and how they will always be, George who is very curious teaches children that its something natural to be curios, this book may send a wrong message to them but with a little help from parents everything will be alright.
This book makes use of the natural and instinctive curiosity of young children and puts it into action. The sentence structure is very simplistic. It also teaches proper behavior by showing the mishaps that George comes across from being TOO curious.
This is a funny book about a monkey that goes on a field trip with a class. The class goes to the fire station and sees a fire pole. During the visit George gets on the fire truck during a fire call and creates some entertainment.
Curious George goes on a field trip to the firestation. George isn't supposed to go on the firetruck with the firefighters, but he is curious so he went on the firetruck. When the firefighters get there, George juggles with baseballs and the kids are not frightened anymore.
A cute Curious George adventure where George goes on a class tour to the local firehouse. Naturally, he causes some mischief. Fortunately, by the end of the story, George manages to help out the firemen, becoming a hero. Nice illustrations add to the cute story.
Have read this to the baby several times. =-)
