https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109522.All_by_Myself
*Read by me, reviewed by my niece*All by Myself is the day-in-the-life story of a young, scruffy monster-boy, who shall go nameless, because his name was never given.
Niece Emma (who turned 4 on Saturday with an off-the-chain party...yeah, there was face painting) didn't want to read this right off, preferring to be wrapped up in a blanket like a burrito, but as soon as I began she hustled on over and demanded I start from the beginning.
Her favorite parts were when a mouse sailed a boat across a puddle and when the monster-boy tried to give his teddybear a drink of water.
4 Little independent ★'sAll by Myself is a great book for preschoolers and for kindergarten.
It's a really cute picture book.
It's about a little boy who's trying to do all things on his own.
He struggles with some of the tasks but still, he thrives for his independents.
This book really is wonderful :) The illustrations are colorful, sweet, cute and some are really funny.
Plus it has a cute little message about being independent, excepting guidance, that it's okay if you make mistakes and not giving up.
I have also loved the Little Critter Series books!
I like this book quite a bit. The pictures and words very definitely form a part of the backbone that is my life. Mercer Mayer certainly has had a substantial impact.
The lexile for this book is AD370L.3) Appropriate classroom use (subject area): I would most definitely use this book to demostrate independence at a early age.
4) Individual students who might benefit from reading: I would give this book to a child who is still having a hard time doing basic everything things certain other students are advancing in.
5) Small group use (literary circles): I would use this book to discuss the book with my student and maybe give them a worksheet on things they can do all by themselves.
So fun getting to revisit these stories from when my babies were younger. Now of course the baby I read them to at night is my husband while he plays games on his phone. But still so cute!!
Fun finding the mouse!
At the end of the book, he shows that there are still some things he needs his parents help with, which is read a book before bed time.
I think that this book should be read to children at a younger age to show children that doing things on your own might be challenging but mistakes are a part of learning.
If a teacher decided to read this book to a class, after free time, the teacher could provide a checklist with all the chores and check them off according to what was used, and each student would be responsible for one of the chores, like one student puts away all the building blocks.
It's a terribly cute little story about a little guy trying to go through his day doing everything by himself.
The illustrations are funny and cute.
You have the added bonus of having the child reading along find the mouse in most of the illustrations.
On my color Nook, you can touch the pictures and the word of the item touched will pop up with audio of the word being said.
The mouse hunt is also by touch and tallied for you; the book tells you how well you did at the end in finding them all.
A fun read for little kids.
This book is about how little critter can do many things independently. I read this to my kindergarten class to help them learn what the word independent means, so that they could learn how to be like little critter and be independent learners.
I love this whole collection of stories...they are great...lots of activites to do with them.
It's high time someone speak a little truth around here:This book was a glorified listicle. And not a good one at that.
I love this book. It is a fun story about a child doing things by himself. Simple illustrations.
the humor is in the pictures, not the text. i wish there was more carry over
A good Little Critter book to read to toddlers and kindergartners who are on the verge of starting to do things for themselves.
Lists every day things that little critter can do alone. But one thing that he cannot.
BL 1.30.5 pts
GRL: EDRA: 8
bought for and read to Cambron
This is a cute little critter book.
I like this book because he helps everyone and that is what I like to do so yeah
25802 copies
This book was good. I think it is more for kindergarten and first grade. This book would be good with general reading skills. It would be a good lesson to talk about characters. You could also talk about details of what the characters did
"All by Myself" tells the story of a little boy critter who is exploring all the tasks he is able to do on his own.
It takes you through a series of household tasks that can make a young kid feel very independent from buttoning his own overalls, to helping his mother frost a cake.
The critter gives his best effort despite not being able to complete the tasks perfectly.
I really liked this book because it highlighted the effort of a child and even though he didn not complete the tasks very well, he was developing a sense of independence as well as responsibility around the house.
When we appreciate apps or want to use as a children's literacy material, we should consider if it is a quality electronic text, or not.
One of the important elements that makes good app is the quality of image.
The appreciation of how well little critter can do all of the things that he can do by himself is only fully realized when text and image are considered together.
We can see the importance of image here.
The other technique used the app is pretty simple:not much interactive.
Overall, it is pretty simple, but well made.
Synopsis: "All the many things a young child can do independently are demonstrated, (tying shoes, riding bike, kicking ball), but there is one thing one cannot do alone."My Review: Of course we love Little Critter books and this is a great one for young ones, especially when they are trying to do more and more things on their own but maybe getting a little frustrated that they can't do everything yet.
Munchkin really enjoyed reading this book, and pointing out all the things he can do all by himself and also we discussed the things he is still learning and practicing.
Another great book from Mercer Mayer!
Little Critter is proving that he can do things like brush his fur, brush his teeth, ride his tricycle and put himself to bed all by himself.
This is a great book with a character is very determined to prove that he can do things without any help.
The age appropriate would be kindergarten where the child is now learning how to do multiple things like writing their names, reading and dressing themselves.
I would recommend this book to younger children because the will be able to follow the story for the sentences are short and simple for a child to read.
In this book, Little Critter attempts to do a lot of stuff by himself, even things he can’t actually do, which leads to a few funny situations.
This is a great book for toddlers/preschoolers who are now in the ‘I’ll do it alone’ stage.
It’s a nice way to differentiate between what they can do and what they can’t do without making a mess.
The book is supposed to foster independence (not that kids need any help there :-)) and encourage little ones to be safe while exploring their skills.The Critter is really cute and the pictures are clear and bright with limited words.
This book is about a character that goes by “Little Critter” in most books by Mercer Mayer.
Littler Critter lists all the things he can do by himself in this book.
It proves to little children that they can do simple tasks by themselves and not always rely on their parents.
Some tasks he can accomplish are: brushing his teeth, comb his hair, put himself to bed, and watch his little sister.
One thing he can’t do is go to bed without a story.
It’s very important that parents read to their children when they are young, much like his mother.
Little Critter demonstrates all of the things he can do by himself.
HE can ties his own shoes,pour his own drink, brush his own fur, etc.
Even though he spills a little or ties his shoes together, he's still independent and does the best he can.I would use this book to encourage independence.
Children feel confident when they can start to do things on their own.
This would be a way to get children thinking about what they can do by themselves.
I think this book would go well in a house play center with some items such as zippers, buttons, and shoelaces, for children to practice with.
I didn't want to rate every Mercer Mayer Little Critters books so I thought I'd mark just one of the favorites. I admit that these books weren't on my top ten shelf despite the illustrations but I gave them a 4 star rating not because of my personal feelings but because of the boy's love for them. These books are in high rotation at our house. The boys often repeat the stories to themselves, look at the illustrations, and reference the stories during the day. Who can complain about a book that holds their kids attention.
