https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122403.Asterix_and_the_Chieftain_s_Shield
This one features Asterix, Obelix and Chief Vitalstatistix, on an adventure, our heroes take their beloved chief to a Hydro Spa in the countryside, near Gergovia, as he's got some intestinal issues...While touring, they meet a Roman envoy, who gets smacked, and a coal merchant named Winesandspirix. There's a connection between the new friend and their chief, but not known to anyone yet.Meanwhile, the envoy meets with Caesar, who decides he doesn't like the natives of that particular area gettin
This one features Asterix, Obelix and Chief Vitalstatistix, on an adventure, our heroes take their beloved chief to a Hydro Spa in the countryside, near Gergovia, as he's got some intestinal issues...While touring, they meet a Roman envoy, who gets smacked, and a coal merchant named Winesandspirix.
There's a connection between the new friend and their chief, but not known to anyone yet.Meanwhile, the envoy meets with Caesar, who decides he doesn't like the natives of that particular area getting restless (check your history!) and demands the Shield of Vercingetorix, which he was presented after defeating the Great Gaulish/Celtic chief.This sets off a long chain of events, a race to find where the shield is, who has it, and of course, it should transpire that the shield belongs to.
Asterix and the Chieftain's Shield (Asterix, #11), René Goscinny
Der Lieblingsasterix meiner Kinderzeit.
Mi hijo decidió comprar este volumen que no conocía y no me resultó tan bueno.Ya sabemos de qué se trata básicamente Asterix: los héroes galos van recorriendo diversas regiones de Europa y hacen chistes relacionando sus costumbres con la actualidad (en el medio los galos obtienen fantasiosas victorias que en la realidad sabemos que no ocurrieron, los romanos se los comieron crudos).
A mí también se me hizo muy previsible el final.Pero en realidad, todo esto que digo acá arriba no importa nada desde el momento en que cada noche mis hijos me pedían que se los leyera y siguieron toda la historia con entusiasmo.
They run into a Roman envoy whom they beat up.
Julius Caesar decides to come show who's boss, especially by showing off the Shield of Vercingetorix, the Gaulish chieftain who was the last to surrender, thus completing the conquest of Gaul (never mind Asterix's village).
The envoy is sent in search of it.
When Asterix and Obelix get wind of the scheme, they also search for the shield.The plot runs around in a great big circle with plenty of comedy along the way.
This particular volume has lots of Latin puns (one drunk fellow is always going, "Hic, haec, hoc!").
It's a lot of fun.Recommended.
I like the plot, our Gauls getting in trouble and turn everything in chaos everywhere as usual but they have to find the shield Vercingetorix threw at Caesar's feet after his defeat! The most cute scenes when Indefix has to bath or when Ovelix and Asterix are fighting each other...
দারুণ
অযাসটেরিকস ভালো না লেগে উপায় নেই।
অ্যাস্টেরিক্স ভালো না লেগে উপায় নেই।
The Wiki summary:"The book is inspired by the battle of Alesia, where the Gaulish warrior chief Vercingetorix surrendered to Julius Caesar.
The weapons remain where they were thrown, for several hours, until a curious, somewhat greedy Roman legionary sees that no one's looking, and nicks Vercingetorix's famous shield.
The centurion himself uses the shield to pay for a jar of wine at a nearby Gaulish inn; later on the shield is given by the innkeeper to a survivor of the Battle of Alesia, who wanders off into the night...Then begins the actual story...."More Wiki points:"-A running gag in this book is various Gaulish people claiming “I don't know where Alesia is!
FDH und KneippDas Leben eines urwüchsigen Galliers ist nicht besonders gesund.
Fettes Schwein in dicker Sauce, viel Cervisia, und wenn man dann noch den ganzen Tag auf einem Schild herumgetragen wird und daher Bewegungsmangel aufweist, kann es schnell passieren, dass die Leber nicht mehr mitspielt.
Zum Glück ist fast ganz Gallien von den Römern besetzt, und diese haben ihre Thermenkultur mitgebracht.
Wechselduschen und Gemüse sollen den korpulenten Häuptling wieder in Verfassung bringen.Ein ungewöhnlicher Band, weil er eigentlich zwei Geschichten in einer verbündelt.

The plotting of this one may be a big weighed down by coincidence, but I balance that against the sly narrative circling involved with it, as Asterix and Obelix set out to recover the shield of Vercingetorix, before Caesar can get his mitts on it. Lots of great comic bits, notably Obelix diving into a pool (still one of my faovourite visual gags in Asterix) and finely individuated characters designed by Uderzo. Odd in that this book features neither the usual encounter with the pirates, nor Cacofonix being bound and gagged rather than attending the final feast.
I had a hunch how this adventure would end, but what I didn't know was the exclusive look I'd get into Gaulish methods for treating liver damage from excessive food and drink. Very insightful and educational.
Another wonderful funny adventure with Asterix and Co. Watch hiding out! Watch bathing! Watch boar hunting!Love those names.
A good translation from the original French.I really enjoyed and loved seeing Astérix and all the characters of the comic speaking in Latin. A real pleasure .
ifi afhalah efhishi yhang fhalhing shushah fhimengerthi. fhenafha ufhafannya fhidhak fhiterjhemahkhan shajha sheferfi fada Asterix dan Cleopatra ? fhayangkhan khalau omongan Cleofhatra fhidhak fhiterjhemahkhan, khitha hafhus mhemfachanya fhalham hufufh hieroglif!
good one
Can Asterix and Obelix beat Caesar to find the shield first and stop him from flaunting his victory over Gaul? Will Majestix (Abraracourcix) be cured at the spa?
Actual rating: 3.50
a few of the intricacies of french history are lost on me but still a good adventure
Can't let Julius get that much glory.
A humorous and clever volume. The story is interesting and non-linear. The detective-story part is well done and subtle, the twist at the end is nice, and the artwork is great.
Tarinan juju oli joko muistissa tai päivänselvä muuten. Vauhdikasta menoa kuitenkin ja ihan kelpo tarina, joskin melko yhdentekevä.
The conflict between progress and the ideal25 August 2013 I didn't like this particular album as much as I did the others, though the story was still quite good, particularly with the rather interesting twist at the end. Actually there are a few twists in this story, and it does take time for the actually plot of the story, that is the quest for the shield of Vercingetorix, to come to fruition. Basically, after Vercingetorix threw his arms and armour at Ceaser's feet (which ended up being quite
The conflict between progress and the ideal25 August 2013	I didn't like this particular album as much as I did the others, though the story was still quite good, particularly with the rather interesting twist at the end.
Anyway, Ceaser decides that to remind the Gauls who's boss he wants to be paraded around the area on Vercingetorix's shield, however, as it turns out, the shield went missing shortly afterwards, so it ends up being a race between the Romans and Asterix and Obelix to get the shield first.
In this one, chief Vitalstatistix is ill and goes for treatment. Asterix and Obelix accompany him. At the same time, Ceasar is trying to find a certain gaulish shield.The plot was more involved than usual with these books, but still utterly predictable. There was a disproportionate amount of bad puns in this one.
Vão então visitar a região, incuindo gergóvia (porque Alesia, sítio em que os gauleses foram derrotados, ninguém conhece).
encontram um enviado pessoal de Júlio César e batem-lhe pelo que este regressa a Roma para informar que esta região não está pacificada.
então César pensa entrar na cidade em cima do histórico escudo de arverne que pertencera a vercingetorix.
e assim face a César (incógnito) passa a ser o chefe da aldeia a andar em cima do escudo de arverne e não César.
Os soldados romanos, negros do carvão das caves de gergóvia em que fizeram buscas pelos gauleses e pelo escudo são desterrados para muito longe.
Eine Szene in diesem Band hat mir den Spaß an Asterix insgesamt gründlich verdorben.Ich meine das »Hausmitteilungssystem« in der Räderfabrik, Seiten 28–31. Die entwürdigende, stereotype Darstellung der afrikanischen Sklaven ist schlimmer als das Blackface der Minstrel Shows. Es ist klar, das niemand die versklavten Boten je als Menschen gesehen hat. In der Geschichte weder die Sklavenhalter noch Obelix, und eindeutig weder Goscinny noch Uderzo, und auch die Redaktion nicht, die das hat durchgehe
Eine Szene in diesem Band hat mir den Spaß an Asterix insgesamt gründlich verdorben.Ich meine das »Hausmitteilungssystem« in der Räderfabrik, Seiten 28–31.
Die entwürdigende, stereotype Darstellung der afrikanischen Sklaven ist schlimmer als das Blackface der Minstrel Shows.
Es ist klar, das niemand die versklavten Boten je als Menschen gesehen hat.
In der Geschichte weder die Sklavenhalter noch Obelix¹, und eindeutig weder Goscinny noch Uderzo, und auch die Redaktion nicht, die das hat durchgehen lassen.Ich denke, das wurde unbewusst so geschrieben, was es eher schlimmer macht, denn das heißt, das die Autoren wirklich so rassistisch waren.¹Er versucht gar nicht, mit dem Boten zu sprechen, und spricht noch nicht einmal von ihm (»Der hier ruft keine Wachen mehr!«), sondern von einer »Verbindung« die er unterbrochen hat.
I also like how easy and enjoyable the book is to read.What I didn't like about this book and why:I didn't and don't like how all the Asterix books all have the same plot more or less; Asterix and Oblix are sent on a mission to find or retrieve something and are successful and come home and have a feast.Who would i recommend this book to and why:Everyone!
Of all the asterix books that I have read till date, this one will not be at the top of the list.. the storyline was a bit monotonous. what I like about all the asterix books was also present in this book like the description of the places, the small small technical humors (e.g. the intercom system in this book), the funny depictions of the events, the sketches. So I give this book three stars.Overall a good and enjoyable book to read at leisure like all the other asterix comics
my favorite part is the state-of-the-art 'intercom' system. HAHAHAHAHAAHAAKHK! been reading Asterix since i was in grade school, but i've only read the Indonesian version of Asterix comics when i was already in college. my mother used to get me the english version which was terribly funny. the Indonesian version, however, needed some adjusting in my brains. but it was as funny (if not funnier) especially if you have enough Sundanese language understanding because apparently the translator was a middle aged lady of a Sundanese descent. :D
