https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1458869.Love
Back then I read library copies, and years later I started to collect her books for my own library, secure in the knowledge that I could happily read them over and over again.‘Love’ was one of the most elusive titles, and even though many of the details had slipped my mind I remembered that it was a particular favourite, that it had an especially striking cover, and so I was delighted when I finally found a copy to keep.This is the story of a romance between a young man and a somewhat older lady, and I on the second time of reading my love for the story grew and grew.The young man is Christopher, who works in an office and shares a London flat with a friend.
Hypocrisy, society's norms, the lengths on trying to obtain youth, marriage and family relationships are all here, not in a light lovely dovey way but a hard look at life in all its views.
Yes, I have that book on my list to read and comparing the novel to the movie will be fun to do; "Love" reminds me of "Mrs. Skeffington"and even though they are quite different, they have a similar desire to be youthful.
I loved Catherine in "Love" and it will be interesting to see what I think of "Mrs. Skeffington" after I read it and seeing how it differs from Bette Davis quite unlikable character.
Non è molto chiaro, nel corso del romanzo, anche se il mio parere è che lei non sia tanto innamorata di lui, quanto di quello che lui offre alla sua vanità, cioè la possibilità di sentirsi più giovane.L'idea, dunque, che i due possano unirsi in matrimonio, è del tutto ridicola agli occhi di chiunque, Catherine per prima, mentre per Christopher non rappresenta il minimo problema dato che lei ha un aspetto così giovanile.
It's hard to believe this book isn't better known. I loved it, especially what it had to say about the efforts of women to look younger. There were some very funny parts, too. Highly recommended.
The more complex reason I enjoyed the book is that I found it to be a very true account of love.The main element of this story is its critique of society’s hypocrisy regarding age: a young woman can marry and old man, but if a young man marries and older woman, it is scandalous.
It followed the same basic plot: two people fall in love, there are obstacles and misunderstandings, there is a “grand gesture”—the point as which one of the lovers does something irrational that “proves” the love, and a final coming together of the two lovers to live in presumed marital bliss—despite the fact that every other marriage in the story has been shown to be dysfunctional.However, this love story is different in an important way: Catherine and Christopher get married in the middle of the book—not the end.
Catherine Cumfrit and Christopher Monckton, meet at a production of a play The Immortal Hour, playing to reduced audiences, the pair have each attended numerous performances.
Recognising each other among the dedicated followers of The Immortal Hour Catherine and Christopher move to sit near to one another.
Christopher is pretty much immediately smitten, Catherine aware of his interest is flattered.
Christopher is twenty-five, Catherine is in her mid-forties, a young looking widow, with a newly married daughter.
While Christopher believes Catherine is probably a little bit older than him – he is sure it is nothing much – Catherine is very aware of the age difference – but enjoys being assumed to be much younger.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2016/...
Per ora il migliore della Von Arnim che mi sia capitato tra le mani.
Uno stile classico per un contenuto estremamente moderno e tra le righe affiora l'immagine di una donna assolutamente unica.Cos'è l'amore per un uomo, cos'è per una donna?
Cos'è nella giovinezza, cos'è nella maturità?
E seppur alla fine, tutti facciano una ben magra figura, il miracolo della scrittura si compie: svanisce il cinismo e rimane la compassione, la simpatia e l'affetto per dei personaggi che racchiudono tutte le nostre fragilità e i nostri difetti.
A novel about a younger man who pursues an older widow, much to the chagrin of their friends, family, and society in general. 1925.Full review (and other recommendations!) at Another look bookA book with a straightforward plot that carries a powerful punch. I wouldn't recommend it if you can't handle the slower, delicately crafted type of book. But if you CAN handle that type, then this book is a must read! Von Arnim clearly had some things she wanted to say on relationships, age differences, and the hypocrisy of social norms. A great representation of intelligent, 1920s literature.
This is a novel I have read at least twice before. It is a very unusual and worthwhile book. At times laugh-out-loud funny, and at others so touching as to draw tears. It is about a young man of about twenty-five who falls in love with a woman twenty years older than he is, but that is only the very beginning of it. Definitely one of my favourite novels of all time.
Elizabeth Von Arnim’s heroine in Love was too conventional to think of herself as retaining any qualities that might attract a man.
Her not yet out of her teens daughter has been swept up by the longtime family minister and in their marriage Catherine has been pushed from being the lady of the manor to a barely getting by gentile lady of a certain age, surviving on a fixed and limiting income in a prepaid modest city apartment.At a London musical play she meet the much younger Christopher.
Being a young man, if older than Catherine’s daughter he is represented as all energy and action.
This book explores how a big age gap influences a relationship, one in which the woman is quite a bit older, and the other in which the man is older.
It seems much harder for the older woman, who becomes obsessed with her looks to hide her aging from the younger husband, while the older man seems to be free of any critique by his young wife, his aging wholeheartedly accepted.
I gave Elizabeth Von Arnim five stars for The Enchanted April, which is one of my all time favorite books.
I love Elizabeth, and this is one of my favorite of her books. The beginning is soooo charming, and the protagonist is adorable. Oh. It's about a woman and a younger man. It's gorgeous.
This novel was way before it's time. Such a great exploration of human nature.
Il romanzo mi ha un po delusa anche se verso il finale mi ha molto di più appassionata quando mi i protagonisti si mostrano davvero per quel che sono mettendo a nudo i propri sentimenti e le proprie verità. La storia sulla differenza di età mostra tutta la propria vera crudeltà. La scrittura è impeccabile.
A quirky little number from 1925 that sort of has one foot in the century prior and one in its current time. Catherine, our heroine, is the vehicle for much insightful play and in the very capable hands of her author, is an engaging focus for the moral lessons to be rolled out (not in a bad way - this is not preachy).
It was very longwinded, but I stuck with it.
A woman in her forties with a nineteen year old daughter marries a young man in his twenties. She considers herself to be old. The entire storyline seemed ridiculous.
This is a near-perfect book! It was both funny, sad and poignant. The characters were so well drawn. I don't think I'll ever forget it!
Elizabeth, anche questa volta mi lasci senza parole! Questa commedia piena di botta e risposta che maschera in realtà temi molti più complessi (e anche autobiografici) è permeata da un velo di ironia, tratto distintivo dell'autrice, che spesso sfocia nel grottesco. Ma davvero questo romanzo è stato scritto nel 1925? Incredible a dirsi. Da queste pagine che si leggono in velocità una dietro l'altra nascono profonde riflessioni sull'essere umano, sui rapporti e le relazioni amorose. La commedia si evolve in tragedia e l'epilogo non è assolutamente quello che avreste immaginato. Nel bene e nel male.
Elizabeth von Arnim, libro finito. Storia leggera che piano piano affonda. Molto autobiografica, mi dice Terence De Vere White nella postfazione. Non vi svelo niente come mio solito. Primo romanzo per me scritto da lei. Piacevole. Divertente. Si legge in due giorni. La signora sa come portare il cappello.
He is a "glorious young man with flame coloured hair", sheis the "sweetest little thing in a hat" - the only problem isthat he is 25 and she is 47 (in reality Frere was 24 and Elizabethwas 54).Christopher is a particularly shadowy figure in the novel- apart from his description and how attractive he is he remainspretty one dimensional.
Frustrating.-repetitionThe themes are interesting, but a little over-used.Overall, I would recommend you don't go out of your way to read it, but if you happen to have a copy, give it a try.If you're looking for a more detailed review, I suggest you read at Sera's ReviewI love this paragraph:'The main element of this story is its critique of society’s hypocrisy regarding age: a young woman can marry and old man, but if a young man marries and older woman, it is scandalous.
The mother (Catherine), at 47, marries a man (Christopher) who is only 6 years older than her daughter.
Unable to lay hands on a print of "Enchanted April," I picked up a copy of "Love" in order to get a feel for the author.
In the end -- although I impressed by both the writing and themes in the novel -- I was ultimately relieved not to have found the former.
"Love" ends rather dismally, all the worse for not explicitly detailing the nadir the characters are certain to reach in their relationship.
I was suitably affected by the modern, yet timeless, situation, as well as by the believable humanity of the main characters; but, I was grateful to dodge the possibility of having "April's" sweet story (as depicted in the movie) similarly besmirched.
This is a book not so much about love as about ageing.
Catherine is 47, a mother and soon-to-be grandmother.
Christopher is 25 and madly in love with her.
His love for her makes her young again, but the prejudices of society and her anxiety over keeping their passion alive soon make her even older than she was.
Elizabeth von Arnim drew upon her own experiences to write this book, having had a romance with a man 30 years her junior.
She knows exactly what Catherine is going through, all of which she unflinchingly describes with realism, witticism, and sadness.
Elizabeth von Arnim ne sa! Scrive bene, è acutissima nelle descrizioni di fatti e sensazioni, ha un sguardo attento sulle debolezze umane e sa farci ridere con il suo umorismo venato di sarcasmo. La vicenda del romanzo, che scopro parzialmente autobiografica, ci offre una serie di riflessioni dolci e amare sul tempo che passa e sui rapporti tra uomini e donne. Consigliatissimo. Di corsa nella mia lista dei migliori!
I loved Love, which was based on von Arnim's own experience of having a love affair with a man who was 30 years younger than she was. All of the relationships in teh book are between couples who have a very large age difference between them. The storyline points out the different attitudes between the sexes - it being accepted that men can marry very much younger women and nobody bats an eyelid, but when women do the same thing then people are scandalised. Enjoyable but at the same time sad.
Non mi pensavo mi piacesse, e, invece, l'ho incredibilmente apprezzato.L'ho comprato sul Kobo solo perché era a offerta, non conoscendo niente, perciò, della scrittrice.Ma ho fatto fatica a staccarmene. Volevo finirlo, incuriosita dal finale. E non è nemmeno un libro di grandi avventure! Sarà che amo questo genere di narrazione e scenario, perché mi sono immersa nell'Inghilterra dei pregiudizi, antipregiudizi, silenzi e discorsi.
Elizabeth von Arnim lived around 100 years ago, but her words and stories sound so alive and contemporary!Can love happen in a couple where the woman is older than the man? Can society (or actually, the people surrounding them) understand and accept such a relationship? Is this couple any different from one where the male is the older partner?Beautifully written story, full of sentiment.
I usually don't read horror stories but since I loved the author in Enchanted April, I kept thinking it would suddenly transform into a beautiful book. And besides the boy's name was Christopher.
I recall really enjoying this book - Elizabeth Von Arnim was wildly popular in her day, and I can see why. Her stories draw you in...even though nothing too terribly out of the ordinary happens! Kind of like Jane Austen.
