https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10572.A_Clash_of_Kings
I fear that if I don’t blurt out my thoughts about this one soon, then all the books in the series are going to meld together in my memory.
Martin is merciless with his characters.
The defender is a cruel king and has a tenuous claim to the throne, but I like a few of the characters in his castle and feared what would happen to them if they lose.
He has a better claim than most to the throne.
Martin drew the characters and politics so craftily that I just could not decide.
And this is a middle book.
Instead of writing a review, I'm just going to post a list of the facial expressions I made while reading this book:                  However... I feel this one most accurately sums up A Clash of Kings:
because, obviously, the only perspective that matters is (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]who is great in the books, but somehow even better onscreen.
and everything with(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]is wayyy better onscreen, and since she is one of my favorite actresses, i am glad she has a lot more to do than was written for her originally.and george r.r. martin...so that is hardly a book review, but there are a lot of reviews for this book and i am pretty much ordering you to go out and read these right now, so just do it and stop your backtalk.
R. Martin’s A Clash of Kings, the second book in his A Song of Ice and Fire series, that I admitted to myself that I wanted to quit my job and everything else in my life so I could stay home and read all day.
I’m still not quite sure if I made the right decision.You think you know someone, and then you read the second book about her.
Don’t start this series unless you’re ready to devote yourself to reading every published book of it.
I don’t know what I’m going to do when I’ve finished the fourth book and have to sit around waiting for Martin to write and publish the rest.
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: So much tension builds from uncertainty. Nearly everyone is helpless, and so the resolution is always unpredictable.
Active scenes illustrated the world and put it into motion, largely through political intrigue and the build to war.This second book takes a mallet to what the first set up, dulling and dumbing down the world and putting the majority of the characters into boring or redundant situations where they do not escape the inertia of wasted prose until the final third of the book.
It ends essentially on the same promise of future progress that the first did, and has so much unnecessary material that I couldn't help looking at my copy of A Storm of Swords, the 1,200-page third book, and wonder if it wasn’t bloated by the same problems.

I love Jon Snow It seems like he didn't have much in the book.
A few of the characters I love didn't have a lot of stuff going on in this book.
The gods have sent it to show me the way.I love Daenerys.
. .I beg your pardon, m'Lady."I love Arya :-)There really is no point in loving anyone in these books or shows because they all die!
I found a lot of the book boring and drawn out.
I loved how most of the book was about Tyrion.
I Love Tyrion.
You can find the full review and more about this book on my blog!I HAVE NO WORDS,just as the first one,perfection.After Game of Thrones ending,with the head on the spike and the naked mother of dragons with her dragons in her body,you can imagine my level of excitement.I recall reading this in 6 days,and I am proud about that.For my opinion the first one was better than this,but still this one was almost as enjoyable as the first.My favorite is Daenerys Targaryen,I just like to read about her and the cities she goes.She is a badass hot character and you know I am a sucker for that.The scene with Unsullied was kind of predictable,but still awesome.Also in this one I started to like Jamie,I don't know,I just don't care about the incest anymore,and I am glad I got to see him more as a own character because in the King's Landing he was always in the shadow of Cercei.And the ending,like what the hell was that,the white walkers?
In Theon, perhaps the nurture of the Starks has had some slight impact on the nature of the Greyjoys.I really appreciate that Martin included Theon’s voice because honestly, reading wall-to-wall heroic perspectives is enough to make me want to cut some throats.
Theon is an asshole, but he’s the kind of guy I’d love to get a beer with, shoot the shit, and enjoy his various mean-spirited bitching and self-absorbed plans of conquest.
He is seriously imperfect, quite unlike most of the other voices in the tale.
I am completely hooked on this sordid and gory saga.The second book in the series, 'A Clash of Kings' picks up the story and submerges readers in action and adventure.
With all of the new kings coming forward to lay claim to different lands and all of the battles, I found myself again, lost at times.
There are just so many moving parts with this story that I've had to rewind a few times to keep up with what is going on.
I highly recommend this series to anyone that loves action/adventure.
Tyrion is my favourite character in this series, so I’m somewhat biased in my review.
If you look further beyond that you get to see a man who is as fragile as he is wise.
He has learnt that love is a necessary facet for man, and he has learnt to use it to his advantage.
He loves but one man, his brother Jaimie.
He hides his only weakness.Through all this Tyrion plays the game with a steady hand and take no chances.
Tyrion is great character, and is reason enough to love this series.
A Storm of Swords - A Lannister loving five stars 4.
لابد أن أقول أن مشاهدة العمل التليفزيوني قبل القراءة أعطت أبعاد مختلفةالأمر يشبه لعبة النردفهناك مصا
I'm not entirely sure why, but I think the many Kings and their battles were a little tiring.So here are the many POVs, starting with the chapters I liked the most down to the ones I didn't:Tyrion - Unexpected turns, witty and intruigingDaenerys - New unknown lands and strange magic, dragons!Arya - Danger, Jaqen H'ghar, and many different facesSansa - King's Landing's games and intruiges and Sansa struggling to keep her head upCatelyn - Tired of her sorrow, but loved the parts with Brienne and RenlyJon - Love Ghost, like Halfhand and Sam, annoyed by winter and coldBran - Again: love the Direwolves, like Osha, Jojen and Meera but just not interested in BranSer Davos - Melisandre is the only interesting thing in those chaptersTheon - Vain stupid little dipshit only thinking with his cockFind more of my books on Instagram
Here's how long it takes Martin to transform Lord Balon Greyjoy's distant castle into the coolest keep in Westeros:Drear, dark, forbidding, Pyke stood atop those islands and pillars, almost a part of them, its curtain wall closing off the headland around the foot of the great stone bridge that leapt from the clifftop to the largest islet, dominated by the massive bulk of the Great Keep.
No more and no less."If A Game of Thrones was the introduction to the characters, setting the scene for the later trials and conflicts; then A Clash of Kings is the angrier, battle fuelled brother.
Four men strive to take the Iron Throne from the newest King currently sat on it.
"A day will come when you think yourself happy, and suddenly your joy will turn to ashes in your mouth and you'll know the debt is paid"The Lannisters still hold Kings Landing but for how much longer?
An entire host of characters who drift in and out of importance as it goes on.
بعد ان اصبح هناك عدة ملوك. اصبح عددهم يقل تدريجبا..صراع رهيب باسلوب مشوق. ممالك تسقط واخرى تقوم وما زال الصراع محتدما.مصير عائلة ستارك اصبح مجهولا بعد تشتت العائلة.من اروع روايات الخيال ومتحمس لقراءة الجزء الثالث"عاصفة السيوف"
You know, I've been on the fence about if Brienne actually killed Stannis in S5E10, but after rereading her love for Renly, I completely believe she did in the TV show.
Arya did not know the Bolton's already were traitors against Robb, I imagine she would still think they were one of the Stark's banner men, no?
As scary as the sexual violence is to me, I think it is very believable in this world and helps to show people that the real monsters aren't just beyond the wall; they are human beings capable of very evil things.
They’re repetitive and formulaic and predictable and generally tiresome.On the other hand, the small part of me that is still young at heart remembers what it was like to be in the grip of a long, unfolding story, to finish one volume and eagerly dive into the next, to spend countless hours with characters so that you knew them almost as family.
When A Game of Thrones ended, King Baratheon had died, the Hand of the King Ned Stark was executed, and Joffrey, the bastard son of brother-sister tandem Jaime and Cersei Lannister, was king of Westeros.
George R.R. Martin demonstrates in Clash of Kings, his second Song of Ice and Fire novel, that he is the American J.R.R. Tolkien.Raymond Richard, born in New Jersey, differs from Ronald Reuel, born in what is now South Africa, in many ways, but their fantastic world building is what puts them in a class with few others.
Tyrion knows how to play the game and keeps a copy of Machiavelli’s The Prince in his back pocket (but I think he has it fully annotated and memorized.) Matter of fact, Tyrion gets my STEAL THE SHOW award for this novel as the IMP makes this even better.For all the great characters and action, though, the real hero is Martin himself and his incredible world building as he takes the baton from Tolkien and keeps running.
"Kill your darlings" is a popular piece of advice given in creative writing classes - it's the concept that you shouldn't ever be afraid to take drastic and destructive action on your precious baby of a novel in order to move the plot forward or improve the story.
If Martin spent A Game of Thrones carefully constructing a miniature world and showing us around its various towns and characters, A Clash of Kings is when he suddenly starts stomping on everything and making Godzilla noises.
I read more than half that just today, so 11 days is a LONG time for me to get into a story.
Secondly, because so much of this book felt like set up and maneuverings and I was ready for stuff to happen!
I know that, considering events, that's appropriate, but I couldn't help wanting to feel the way I felt while reading Game - which was a gnaw-my-fingers-raw anxiety.
And I want to make it clear that I don't think the writing was bad or that the story was slow or anything like that.
Meanwhile, Daenerys Targaryen continues her plan to reconquer the Seven Kingdoms.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: از روز ششم ماه آوریل سال 2015 میلادی، تا روز بیست و ششم ماه آوریل سال 2015 میلادیجلد دو: نبرد پادشاهان، شامل دو کتاب: کتابهای 1 و 2؛ عنوان کتاب نخست: نبرد پادشاهان کتاب 1 از جلد 2 (نغمه آتش و یخ، #2)؛ نویسنده: جورج آر.
مارتین؛ مترجم: رویا خادم الرضا؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ویدا، 1391، در 629 صعنوان کتاب دوم: نبرد پادشاهان کتاب 2 از جلد 2 (نغمه آتش و یخ، #2)؛ نویسنده: جورج آر.
Robb Stark, the King in the North, continues his campaign to avenge his father and take the Iron Throne.
Jon Snow continues being my favorite character as he ventures beyond the wall, probably marking him for death sometime soon.
In non-Stark news, Tyrion Lannister continues being the best character in the series and pulls the strings behind the scenes.
Cercei Lannister has a lot more facets to her character than I originally thought.Much like the last book, most of the action happens near the end.
I liked Clash of Kings almost as much as the first book.
This might be my favorite book in the entire series.
If the first book is more of an introduction to George Martin's cruel world, A CLASH OF KINGS is a straight up feats of nastiness (and goodiness because, you know, the books is perfect).Shit starts to go down really fast (or as fast as it can go for a 800 pages book).
We see Arya starting to become a badass, Tyrion being just as badass as before, Daenerys becoming a badass b**ch and, my favorite, Robb being the one to rule them all.
I loved that plot so much and it is my absolute favorite in the entire series...
There are two new characters: Davos Seaworth and Theon Greyjoy.I like this book but personally, I prefer the first book, 'A Game of Thrones' than this book.A Clash of Kings is my least favourite book of A Song of Ice and Fire.
I have avoided major spoilers for this book.Suddenly everyone and his butler wants to be king!In A Game of Thrones, we had the distinct pleasure of watching a kingdom fall apart as various individuals and their families jockeyed for positions of power.
Even though she was one of the more bloodthirsty characters in the first book, wanting to hold Tyrion responsible for the attack on Bran and bring all the Lannisters to justice, Catelyn is the voice of reason throughout A Clash of Kings.
Whereas we saw Daenerys grow from a young girl serving as her brother's pawn into a powerful, confident queen and leader in A Game of Thrones, this book has no corresponding developments.
If the first book, A Game of Thrones felt to me a little like stepping into an iron maiden, its sequel A Clash of Kings felt like slipping on a well-smithied gauntlet.
But with A Clash of Kings there aren't nearly as many new characters and new story lines to contend with, so I was able to relax and enjoy the read, rather than feel as if I was back in school cramming for a test.Okay, and now for the twist!
I don't think A Clash of Kings is as good a book as the first.
في المراجعة حرق لبعض الأحداث  تتواصل في هذا الجزء الملحمة الفانتازيّة العظيمة "أغنية الجليد والنار"، التي بدأناها بلعبة العروش، حيث كانت الممالك السبع على موعد مع حرب طاحنة تتمزّق فيها البلاد والأبرياء يموتون بالمجان، وأبناء الصيف يخوضون حرب الشتاء الطاحنة. وتقوم تحالفات وتُكتشف خيانات. وكل ذلك من أجل العرش الحديدي ومن أجل مصالح وأطماع عديدة.خمسة ملوك تتمزّق بينهم الممالك: روب ستارك الملك في الشمال، الذي يريد الثأر لأبيه الراحل، لورد الشمال، ويد الملك روبرت باراثيون، إدارد ستارك، الذي اتُهِم با
تتواصل في هذا الجزء الملحمة الفانتازيّة العظيمة "أغنية الجليد والنار"، التي بدأناها بلعبة العروش، حيث كانت الممالك السبع على موعد مع حرب طاحنة تتمزّق فيها البلاد والأبرياء يموتون بالمجان، وأبناء الصيف يخوضون حرب الشتاء الطاحنة.
وكل ذلك من أجل العرش الحديدي ومن أجل مصالح وأطماع عديدة.خمسة ملوك تتمزّق بينهم الممالك: روب ستارك الملك في الشمال، الذي يريد الثأر لأبيه الراحل، لورد الشمال، ويد الملك روبرت باراثيون، إدارد ستارك، الذي اتُهِم بالخيانة والتآمر على العرش بعد وفاة روبرت.
ولا أحد يعلم بعد عن الخطر الحقيقي الذي يُهدد الممالك السبع!
وثيون غرايجوي، ذلك الوغد الخائن، الذي انقلب على آل ستارك واستولى على ونترفل!
Back a bunch of years ago, I guess in 2005 when Feast for Crows finally came out I picked up a specially priced copy, $3.99 copy of Game of Thrones to find out what it was about George RRRRRRRRR Martin (this is how I sometimes say his name in real life, and always say it in my head, lots of ARE's) that caused so many people to crave his books and get so disappointed each time the publication date for Feast for Crows came and went without a book being released* I don't like feeling fucked around with by release dates, and I don't like waiting for sequels to books or for series to be completed but from time to time curiosity gets the best of me for what makes something so massively appealing (and there was nothing like the pop-culture appeal that this series has today back then, which sort of blows my mind).
