https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/997335.Beau_Geste
I further define one by it being a great story hidden behind awful, dated writing that has been butchered by Hollywood, & forced upon too-young souls by sadistic English teachers.
That's one I cherish...)This is a GREAT story & will never finish speaking to people.
Best of all, the story is exceedingly well crafted to bewilder the reader while laying out all the clues to bring it to a stunning, perfectly sensible, & satisfactory conclusion.The original, superficial mystery of the story seems obvious; the fort being manned by the dead, but that quickly gives way to the main mystery when John tells his story.
After that, I was completely hooked.Geoffrey Howard's wonderful reading brings the story to life.
Beau Geste was an ultimate boy/man book (to be much enjoyed by women who love real men too:).
Again, that's why I am totally loving my budding "Reactionary Library." In my review to "Prester John" I put a link to an article entiteled "Adventure Books for Boys." That article references another article that explains that tradition further--I have pasted it below for your enjoyment.
Suppose you wanted to collect the books that gave you so much pleasure as a child and did so much for your moral formation--not perhaps quite my stories but shorter stories suitable for younger children.
A stirring historical mystery, a tale filled with adventure. The story of three brothers who for reasons of their own run away to join the French Foreign Legion. This is a rollicking good tale of loyalty, honour, love and mateship. Reminded me of one of those "boy's own" adventure tales. A few lulls in the pacing and delivery but a wonderful premise. Far exceeded my expectations.I regret that it's taken me so long to get around to reading this (IMO) unappreciated classic.
I stayed up till a quarter to midnight to finish it, so I think that says something for the blend of mystery and adventure...
I suppose the story/plot is familiar to many who'll read this from the movie I mentioned and others (though if the only movie you've seen is "The Last Remake of Beau Geste" staring Marty Feldman you may not have exactly the idea of the plot found in the book).
Why only 3 stars...well, I just couldn't get past the story telling/writing style that is very dated.
The story telling style is more slow and dated than readers today will be used to.
The book the helped create the lure of joining the French foreign legion.
A gem disappears and brothers, not knowing who is guilty, go off and join the French foreign legion to try and protect each other and unravel the mystery.
Among the cut throats and the insanity, brothers grow close and make a couple of American friends who they owe their lives to over and over again.
It's real adventure and told in a way that keeps you wondering how and why up until the very end.
If you like swash buckling type adventures and deserts, this is for you.
You might discover that you like them more than you realized.
Wren also uses a lot of French terms and phrases in the book to give an appropriately exotic flavor.
While there are no footnotes in the text I read, context clues and being able to "see" the spelling of the words helped in deriving appropriate meanings for them and didn't cause me any undue delay in reading (I would have hated to listen to the book).
I was enthralled from beginning to end.Definitely one I would consider reading again at some point (though there are two sequels to read before that happens).
Is this book why I named my son Beau? I don't know but I'm pretty sure it was in the back of my mind when it came time to name him. :-) I read this when I was around 13 to 15. I loved it and am planning to read it to my boys as soon as I think they can tolerate the language. A great adventure story with the French Foreign Legion. What could be better? It's not a perfectly crafted novel but is wonderful anyway.
When people talk about running away and joining the Foreign Legion, they're probably referring to this book, even if they don't know they are. Stirring British Empire stiff-upper-lip stuff. There is a fantastic scene near the end which I often think of.
helloOH where is Max Perkins when you need himwordy slogadventure storyfar too much dead spacenothing nothing is happening does not age wellsee the Gary Cooper movieits much better than the bookyours trulymac
I remember as a child watching Beau Geste, the ghostly dead men on the fort parapets and the viking fortress. I had not realised what a frolicking good adventure/mystery book that Mr P.C. Wren had penned covering a stolen gemstone, the French Foreign Legion, mutiny, self sacrifice, loyalty and a happy ending. Some very dated language and views but the English men are all gentlemen and that is all that mattered in those days.
Rousing tale of grim deeds and satirical heroic characters. A real page turner, and while not a completely happy ending, it wrapped up well. Glad I finally read it. Side note: the descriptions of heat in the desert may be a good aid in getting through your February, if that's what you need.
After years of disparaging the book for being "boring" (based on the impenetrable first pages) I figured I should give it a fair shake.The plot centers around two mysteries: first, how did a French fort in the middle of the desert come to be manned by dead men, and second, who stole the "Blue Water" sapphire?
"Doing the right thing" is the strongest theme in the book, and I can fully understand how a copy ended up on a shelf with the comic books, in a house with three boys.
(It's not.)I had to pause in the middle of this book to read The Goose Girl for book club, but I was interested enough to come back to it when I was done.
One expects a certain amount of casual racism in any book of imperialist adventure, and, indeed, the Bedouins are murderous savages who delight in torture and exist only to massacre and plunder others; they are also ugly--but Beau Geste is perhaps unusual in the extent of its classist assumptions, in its utter contempt for any country situated south of France (cowards and thieves to a man), in an astonishingly overt anti-Semitism (mainly evinced in one long, painful, "humorous" scene featuring a poorly dressed Nosferatu-troll of a pawnbroker who is consistently referred to as a "child of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob"), and in its self-admiration for the phlegm, vigor, and stoicism of the British upper classes.
The "Blue Water" is stolen one evening and only 8 people were present at the time who could have stolen it: Beau, Digby, John or their cousins Isobel, Claudia, and Augustus as well as a Chaplain and Aunt Patricia herself.
Their adventures in the Legion make up the latter part of the book and it is where the story really takes off.
There are battles, treachery, heroes and villains and I agree with many others who have read this book that this is a classic adventure written for boys (or the boy in all of us).
Not only was I wrong about it existing, it still exists, they even have a website: Whatever your origins, nationality or religion might be, whatever qualifications you may or may not have, whatever your social or professional status might be, whether you are married or single, the French Foreign Legion offers you a chance to start a new life...http://www.legion-recrute.com/en/This book is much more than an adventure story, it has two mysteries, that end up being related.
After I read the book I saw the movie Beau Geste (1939) with Gary Cooper and Ray Milland and others.
P.C. Wren's 1924 Beau Geste, a seemingly dated novel of mystery and adventure, with settings that range from the comfortable drawing rooms of the landed gentry of an idealized England to the blazing deserts of a savage North Africa whose colonization is presented only with approval, actually remains quite a decent three-and-a-half- to four-star read.The reader must understand, of course, that this book is not the place to look for modern notions of cultural tolerance, let alone cultural respect, of class, or of writing conventions.
The source book has been on the “Get to read list” for a very long time, thanks to my wife’s thoughtful gift of a Nook last Christmas, I’ve been slowly popping off some of the classics on that list.
If you have a Nook or a Kindle, I would advise you don’t get the lowest price version of this classic.
Frankly, it the copy was so bad that it really diminished my enjoyment of the story.
On its own the story is terrific!
Being as familiar with the story as I am, the novel still held surprises for me.
I have the good fortune to have access to a great collection of classics from my late father-in-law's 1930s and '40s library.
Beau Geste is one of the books I was a long time getting to, and that's a shame.
What a read!
I know it was made into a movie--maybe more than once, I'm not sure--and so if you watch classic movies you may have seen it.
With an exotic setting that features the French Foreign Legion, how could it fail?
But I promise that if the opening scene of Beau Geste doesn't grab you, you are hopeless as a reader of clever adventure stories.
I have seen each of the film versions of this, including Marty Feldman's "Last Remake...," at least 3 times each (NOTE: don't bother with the 1966 Doug McClure/Leslie Nielsen/Telly Savalas version!!; the 1926 & 1939 versions are both must see).
But, I had never read the book before.
It is very much a 1920s romantic adventure, and the model for many a Fr.Foreign Legion book and film made since then.
Don't expect a modern novel, but if you have fun with The Saint and other adventure/mystery books from this period you will enjoy this one.
And the basic story is a classic.
This book was recommended to me by someone who read it as a teenager. I can see the appeal this book would have on a boy that age. All that heroism, adventures, running away from home, the mystery of a stolen jewel. Reading it at my "old" age I didn't really see all that appeal. I think this book would have benefited from a better editor. I can't tell you how many times I was about to give up reading this book.
Amazing story! The beginning is a bit confusing and you have to allow time to get into the flow of the language and the old-fashioned style of the story. But once you do - wow! Brothers Beau, Digby, and John and their friends Hank and Buddy and of course Sgt. Lejaune are characters you will never forget. I understand the 1939 movie version with Gary Cooper was quite good, although the idea of Gary Cooper playing a 20 year old English gentleman is a bit of a stretch!
Bought this book after being addicted to the tv series back in the 80's and falling in love with Benedict Taylor! Loved the book...just wish I still had it! Obviously lost over the years and this particular edition can't be purchased now.
Great book, very sad though.
One of the best books I've ever read. It made me laugh, cry, and feel for all the characters like no other book. An must read for anyone who loves the classics
Admittedly Wren sometimes over-eggs the pudding with rather too many twists and turnings, but the early sections of Beau Geste remain quite riveting as we wait for a solution to the opening mysteries that is then deferred until the end of the novel.Why then is Beau Geste not as well-known as the works by the other enduring writers that I have named?
One of the dead men appears to be Beau Geste, and on his body they find a confession that he stole the Blue Water jewel from Lady Brandon.We are left to chew on these mysteries as the setting moves to the home of Lady Brandon some years earlier, where we are introduced to our heroes, the three Geste brothers.
Early Education a la Gerald Durrel I had a rather unfettered childhood thanks to my psychiatrist father. School I found most repulsive and so I hardly attended. The empty field, near our small bungalow, in Bangalore, provided all the education I desired and a gentle elder sibling nudged books my way when I began to read.  But, while Enid Blyton corrupted my naive years with her adventure stories, I was more strongly drawn to dictionaries.  The transition to H. Martin, P.C. Wren’s High School E
Lastly, there was acrimonious correspondence with the All-Wise Ones (of the Secretariat in "Aiki Square" at Zungeru), who, as usual, knew better than the man on the spot, and bade him do either the impossible or the disastrous.And across all the Harmattan was blowing hard, that terrible wind that carries the Saharan dust a hundred miles to sea, not so much as a sand-storm, but as a mist or fog of dust as fine as flour, filling the eyes, the lungs, the pores of the skin, the nose and throat; getting into the locks of rifles, the works of watches and cameras, defiling water, food and everything else; rendering life a burden and a curse.The fact, moreover, that thirty days' weary travel over burning desert, across oceans of loose wind-blown sand and prairies of burnt grass, through breast-high swamps, and across unbridged boatless rivers, lay between him and Kano, added nothing to his satisfaction.
The language is very different from the way we speak today and I had to stick with it to make my way through.The second section is told in the first person by John Geste and it goes to establish the character of the Geste brothers and the mystery that sends them to seek a life of adventure in the French Foreign Legion in the deserts of North Africa.
This section is essentially a chamber drama with comedy and budding romance and then the mystery that sends the brothers on their quest.The book really comes alive as John joins the French Foreign Legion and prepares to be shipped to North Africa.
(Is that possible?) The exotic locations – Algeria and North Africa – and ‘THE’ exotic French Foreign Legion … (sigh).
The narrator arrives at a desert fort manned by dead soldiers and a murder.
To avoid scandal, three brothers join the (ever romantic) French Foreign Legion.
Then the real adventure begins … with two Texas Ranger cronies, the sadistic Sergeant Major Lejaune, Arab raider attaches, narrow escapes and years of wandering the desert meeting strange tribes and robbers in equally strange towns and cities.It’s written is an older action/adventure style, but still a fun read.
A classic adventure novel from 1924, the exciting tale 'Beau Geste' is about three brothers who all end up enlisting in the French Foreign Legion to prevent suspicion of theft from falling on their female family members when a precious gem is stolen or goes missing.
The title pretty much explains the theme, so there is little in real surprises, although the secret is kept until the end of the book.
Two good ol' Americans provide some comic relief.
It's a good story, and fairly complex for its time, but it does show its age in the use of racist terms.
