https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89755.Tangerine
THIS BOOK WAS SO BAD I CAN'T EVEN EXPLAIN IT. IT WAS THE WORST BOOK I'VE EVER READ. IT IS SO BORING AND DRY. I WILL NEVER READ AN EDWARD BLOOR BOOK AGAIN. I THINK THIS BOOK ACTUALLY MADE ME THROW UP AND I STARTED BLEEDING OUT OF MY NOSE.
She's in 7th grade up here in Washington State and she brought it home and laid it down with a big thud and a groan and "Here it is, Dad. I can't believe you want to read it too." Which is something I'm trying to do: read all the books my two daughters are reading, which is surprisingly easy since kids these days don't do much reading it appears at all in school.
But this 7th grader is far from boring, he has a spine, a heart, and pair of glasses about an inch thick that become a lynchpin to a much darker deeper secret that had me turning the pages....
His Dad called it the "Erik Fishermen football dream" and this kinda left Paul in the blue.After exploring the middleschool, Paul tried out for the soccer team on the first day, he impresses the students with him in soccer.But he is later told by the coach that he is not eligible to play on the team, due to liability issues, because he has an IEP filled out by his mom for him because of his visual impairment.
After almost getting into a fight, Joey finally goes back to Lake Windsor, leaving Tangerine Middle School and their soccer team.
This is actually the best book I've read before, even though I don't read much.
He goes to a school where he can finally play soccer, but then has a conflict because of his impaired vision.
His parents have been lying to him his whole life about why he has impaired vision.
Erik, Paul's brother, is not a nice brother at all, they do not get along what so ever.
Paul is terrified of Erik.
Later in the story, you find out the bad stuff that Erik gets into, and how he is part of Paul's vision problems.
As I figured out which shelves to put this on, I was realizing that Bloor really tried to pack a lot of issues into a relatively short book and he did an excellent job of it.
There's the racism/classism stuff and environmentalism (or lack thereof) and disabilities and how they are dealt with in the school system and lots of inequity that isn't related to race or class and farming and safe driving and sports and bulleying and and and.The story is compelling.
The characters are beyond believable and this is the sort of book I would love to teach because it has something for everyone who might read it.
I don't think the story is about the blind boy, Paul, though, I think it is about his brother Eric.
Eric has caused a lot of trouble by stealing, spray-painting his brother's eyeballs, and killing people.
I think that by putting the thought of soccer and football, it relates to all the kids who don't have a good income and depend on these kinds of sports scholarships, especially Cubans who live in Miami or Latina families in California.
I think that these kinds of things, like punching, happens all the time, but this book really helps people come to a sense that they may be killing that kid.
I don't think I have ever been this furious, this hopping-mad, indignant, filled with righteous anger, seething with a Jane Eyre type impotent rage, as when I was reading this novel.
For sure, no child should be exempt from accountability nor from your succor and more importantly unconditional love and parental support.
How do you protect a child, and here's a truly important question; how do you punish one, the one who is guilty?
Our brave protagonist's eyesight were impaired in this book, but it was his parents who were truly blind.
I read it in 7th Grade in school as required reading. Out of all the books I read that year, I personally found "And Then There Were None" by Agatha Christie was (and is still) the best. However, this came in second.This book about a boy who is nearly blind and moves to Florida. The book generally was quite nice. However, I felt the plot was a tad bit weird, and the description of how he was blinded somewhat creepy and icky. However, overall, it was an ok book to read that someone else might have enjoyed more.
This is the best book ever.
Younger son, Paul, our hero: introspective, alert, insightful, analytical, and - oh, yeah - a fierce soccer player, a strength ignored by the football-crazy father and tolerated by the social climbing mother.
They go to Tangerine Middle and High Schools, and Paul and Erik are at Lake Windsor Middle and High Schools.
Paul discovers that the soccer team at Tangerine is better - and meaner - than the one at Lake Windsor, and he asks for a transfer.
Paul learns about true friendship and leadership - and discovers why he has eye trouble.Occasionally you realize this book was written 15 years ago (the tech stuff gives it away), but the story is timeless, so that makes no difference.
It gets so tense and extremely suspenseful near the end.
It has some extremely funny parts and some sad parts.
It ends off with Paul and his mom at the mall, and Paul going to the Church school thing.I didn't like that Luis died, I felt he should have been a much more major character.
He is the tangerine so why isn't he a major character, he would have connected very well with Paul.
SPOILERS END HERE.Overall the book is very good and I definitely recommended to anyone who is interested in a comedic, mystery and action type of book.
The sibling conflict in "Tangerine" is raw, heartbreaking, frightening, and maddening.
Bloor reveals the pivotal source of the conflict in slow, re-captured memories, until the climax, when the main character, Paul, understands both the past and the present.
Paul's first-person POV accentuates the reader's perception of the wicked older brother and heartless parents.
Bloor's character development is rich and steady-handed.
The reader can see these people living in Tangerine, Florida, and feel for their situations or marvel at their short-sightedness.
Bloor taps the reader's desire to cheer for the underdog -- a desire for fairness and truth -- to keep the pages turning.
Warning this review has spoiler. So in the part 3 Paul goes and jump at a couch right and the get called to the principal. They got a X-ray right then he get xspelled. Erik goes to jail yeah to jail
Paul is the goalie for his soccer team despite the fact the he is practically blind.
His parents hardly notice that he is a gifted soccer player becasue he is completely overshadowed by his older brother, Erik.
Paul is the only one who notices that Erik is not a nice person, to say the least.
What really makes this book great, though, is Paul and his experiences at a new school with new friends (and enemies) and a new soccer team.
Even if you do not like soccer, you will like this book.
This book was depressing.
It's about a little boy who is mostly blind but can't remember why, and is terrified of his psycho older brother, who everyone else thinks is wonderful.
They lived in some crazy little town where weird things happen.
In reality, no one would ever want to live there.
People die and there is no real moral to the story, although you do eventually found out how he went blind - and it's horrifying.
I finished the book thinking, "Seriously?
I can't believe I wasted my time reading that." I gave hours to that book and it gave me nothing back.
Erick can be a men person because he made fun o f mike Costello. Paul thinks that Erik is a mean and cruel person.
Rather than feature an unreliable narrator, it features a middle school teenager who knows more than the adults.Paul knows that his brother, Erik, is a bad person.
Though Paul is technically the back-up goalie, which inevitably means he'll get his big chance at the end, for the most part he plays offensive positions, and it turns out he's not a bad soccer player.
As nice as these themes are, they do little to prevent the novel from delving into strange territory for the novel's final act.The soccer season serves as the story's anchor.
Edward Bloor also writes tangibly and thoughtfully about human feeling through the eyes and life of a seventh grader, and does so with remarkable depth of perception.
There is enough A-1 material in the pages of Tangerine to form three or four high-quality books, but he has blended these glowing pieces into a single rich, vibrant, stirring novel that will not ever be forgotten by anyone who turns its pages, I am sure.
I give Tangerine my proud, enthusiastic recommendation, and I now view Edward Bloor as one of a limited number of juvenile novelists to really watch for closely in the future.
It is a tale of awakening to the reality that family members can indeed harm, both psychologically and physically.Thirteen year old Paul Fischer wears super duper coke bottle glasses.
While his brother remains the high school hero back home, all is not well in the town of Tangerine or the home of the Fischers.When Paul realizes the actual reason he needs to wear thick glasses, he confronts very difficult family dynamics.
Reading this book was like eating chicken shit infected with avian flu, with the writing being the chicken shit and the story being the avian flu.
Florida in this story is like a whack ass Texas with more rain and that's not true at all, so on behalf of the the State of Florida, I say fuck you, buddy.
By the end of this story I wished Erik would give me the good old orange dream machine special so I'd never have to read anything as dogshit as this again.
I liked this book for quite a few reasons. The characters were really good and they developed quite a bit since the start of the book, especially Tino. There was also a nice plot, keeping me engaged in. It was a big slow towards the first few pages but the last 150 pages were quite interesting and picked up very well. But still, there wasn't enough in this book to get it a four star. Needless to say, this was a good book and I'm glad I picked it up.
I think the story was funny and sad but cool because Paul played soccer and he thought he was the best goaley in the world. And then Paul moves to a new town call tangerine he meets a new friend Joey and they both play soccer and tangerine middle school. Then a sink hole comes and destroys the school and Paul goes to a new school tangerine middle then he meets new friends and then at the end they Paul's bother and his friend goes to jail for killing pauls friends brother.
Tangerine took a lot of unexpected turns from the sink hole to deaths.As you read you truly understand the problems Paul has to go through.Also the stereotypes,for example when Paul got told there was only one team he was shocked,he got told a lot of times that the soccer teams had to be separated his old school,lake Windsor Middle,.
It's a really good book. The exposition was really iffy for me and not that great. When we got towards the turning point, everything really started to interesting quick. I really liked how it ended even though this book was kind of hard to end.
This bbokk is very good because it talk about how people are treated with disabilities....
3.5 stars -- My book group was scheduled to read Frankenstein, but when I got out the copies they had such a negative reaction that I finally asked them to pick another title from our collection of summer reading books. For what it's worth, they chose this YA novel about a young soccer player with damaged eyesight. \_(ツ)_/ TANGERINE isn't a bad book at all. It's well written, and there's a little bit of everything for everyone: Holes-style quirkiness, sports action, humor, plot twists, and strai
3.5 stars -- My book group was scheduled to read Frankenstein, but when I got out the copies they had such a negative reaction that I finally asked them to pick another title from our collection of summer reading books.
¯\_(ツ)_/¯ TANGERINE isn't a bad book at all.
It's well written, and there's a little bit of everything for everyone: Holes-style quirkiness, sports action, humor, plot twists, and straightforward drama and emotion.
I have pretty much zero interest in sports, so the playing field scenes bored me.
I could tell the author did quite a bit of research for these scenes.Overall, I enjoyed TANGERINE and I do think it's a good pick for high school classrooms, reluctant readers in particular.
Paul has worn thick glasses ever since a mysterious accident that happened when he was five, but he's not blind, and he is seeing more clearly every day.
He loves soccer, and is determined to play goalie at his new school in Tangerine, Florida.
Paul remains undaunted by everything he is faced with in weird Florida - muck fires, lightning striking everywhere, and a sinkhole that tries to eat a school.
I think the landscape is symbolic of Paul's family - his family is not dealing with some underlying mystery involving his accident and his older, football playing brother.
I thought it was going to be about a social-outcast kid who wears really thick glasses, playing soccer.
And I thought it would make me sad.
But it's actually about a kid who wears really thick glasses, and his nasty (like, psychotic) older brother, and moving to florida, and lightning, and muck fires, and mystery!
What was the accident that caused his loss of vision--and why can't he remember it?
And what it going on in Tangerine county?--Why are the muck fields ablaze, why does lightning strike so many houses/buildings/people?
And what about the sudden sinkhole that swallowed the Middle School's portable classrooms?So far, it's creepy and excellent.
Finished it with my classmates it was a pretty good book but at the same time very sad at the end.
2.5 Stars. Didn’t love this book. I really didn’t like the characters, and I didn’t like the way the book was written. The plot was interesting enough, but I wouldn’t recommend it to anybody by any means. “Meh” pretty accurately summarizes my feelings on this book.
