https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14965.Light_on_Snow
And I liked the reading experience.A twelve-year-old girl, Nicky, and her widowed dad, Robert, finds a baby in the snow.
It is a book for young adults, I would say, and a really gentle,fast, enjoyable read, but with a deep enough base to have me staying riveted to the story from the beginning to end.
The book addresses the different forms of honesty, grief, happiness, love and choices.
The young girl observes the events and is introduced into the world of serious issues, bigger than herself, very fast.
I would love to read more of the author's books.
I am glad I didn't base whether to read this book on the reviews here because I think a lot of people didn't "get it," and maybe that's Shreve's failing, but I've observed that, by and large, people don't really understand grief until they experience it first hand, unfortunately.
Nicky's need to love and understand her world brings the mother's story to light where the wounds of injustice can begin to heal.Although I could see where the story was going, it didn't stop me from reading, or dull my pleasure, because Shreve went beyond the story line and captured the moment when grief changes, along with a girl's coming of age in an imperfect world.
She tells a story from the inside out, examining the bones and interiors, describing the mundane from a different perspective, revealing emotions that are so often pressed deep and hidden inside, even to ourselves.
I always feel incredibly human when I read her stories, and that feels like the most beautiful thing to be in all our flawed, silly glory.
Her stories are not incredible or lurid or even very complex usually, but the gift is all in the writing and the emotions of the characters.
One of my favorite Shreve titles. I loved the teenaged character, and I adore Shreve's writing.
I read this book to be a good book club member.
The target audience appeared to be young adult women, so this book was not really my thing.
That being said, it took only about four hours to read, which was a plus (and is why the book is worthy of two stars).
Many of the characters seemed like caricatures, and many of their actions were not very believable.
The narrator was supposedly 30 at the time the narration was occurring, but sounds like she is 12.
Young adult women who like coming of age stories about young adult women may like this book.
It turned out be a good choice.
I enjoyed the book because the story and the characters seemed real.
It was if this situation of finding a baby in the snow and plot that follows, could happen to anyone.
I found that I was putting myself in the characters’ shoes asking what I would do in the same situation.
It was a short book- I read it in one day of traveling… it almost felt like a long, “short story” which was kind of refreshing.
Overall, a good, entertaining book, with a twisted, yet realistic plot.

Is that it? Really? I've read better pieces of news about the same subject and that provoked in me deeper emotions than this book.Talk about disappointment. Plus, the writing was bland and so were the characters.Nicky was okay. She was really mature and her thoughts were surprisingly insightful for her age.However, her father was a selfish, cowardly man, too lost in his own grief to support a young daughter going through the same process. And Charlotte? Her story could have been so much more than it was.Simply shameful.
My reading tastes are hither-and-yon, and numerical TBR sequencing is simply a formality.
A few days ago I was in the mood for something simple yet complex, and wintry: “Light on Snow.”Last spring I found this delightful gem in a thrift store - seemingly brand new, stiff-spine, never been opened; the lavender sheen paper and stark winter scene called to me: “Please, take me home with you.” Which I did, lovingly tucking it into my bookshelf, waiting for the perfect mood, the perfect moment to read it.
My father and I are technically a family, but it’s a word neither one of us would ever use.
Then when trauma came knocking at their door, Nicky began questioning everything.
The story of Nicky and Robert Dillon, her father, who find a new born baby in the snow while walking in the woods is simply told and caught me from the beginning.
Nicky grieves for her mother and baby Clara, but in a very different way to Robert Dillon does.
How they could do such a thing and how Robert and Nicky respond to this situation is the crux of the story.
If you like an emotional read where you care about the characters and wonder how you would react, you will enjoy this one.
Recently, in the library I noticed an ‘In Memorium’ display for Anita Shreve.
How sad that this talented author is no longer with us!
Some of her novels have been long standing favorites.
She writes so well, and in her stories the hook is usually set early!
The unique tale unfolded as told by an endearing twelve-year-old girl.
Perhaps it takes a special talent to carry that off.
The story involved a newborn baby girl found in the woods in the dead of winter.
It was certainly an intriguing story line and kept me turning the pages!
What a good story about living with consequences, forgiveness and love of family! The only thing I would have changed is to leave out the swearing, though infrequent.
If you enjoy a quick delve into the nature of grief, love, and family, but don't want to be overwhelmed with vicarious pain, then this is a good pick for you.The story is told in the first person by a woman looking back after many years on herself as an adolescent, but she uses the present tense for the current events of the story, and the past tense for longer-ago flashback events.
I thought this made it feel less like a memoir and gave it more urgency.
Anita Shreve “Šviesa ant sniego”.
Prieš keletą metų skaičiau šios rašytojos “Lakūno žmona”, pamenu, jog paliko tikrai gana neblogą įspūdį.
Šią man rekomendavo bibliotekininkė, tad nusprendžiau perskaityti.
🤗. Tai apmąstymai apie meilę ir netektį, sielvartą ir viltį.
Ar įmanoma po didžiulės tragedijos atsitiesti ir viską pradėti iš naujo?
Istorija apie tėvą ir dukrą, kurie bando pradėti naują gyvenimą nuo pat pradžių.
Knyga buvo labai gyvenimiška, vietomis graudi.
Taip pat patiko, jog knygoje yra aprašomi praeities įvykiai bei dabartis.
Man asmeniškai, norėjosi šiek tiek daugiau sužinoti apue kūdikį, kurį rado tėvas ir dukra.
Šiaip knyga patiko, kai nesinori nieko per daug rimto.


It's a character driven book, told by Nicky, the daughter of Robert Dillon.
Nicky has lost her mother and her baby sister earlier in an accident.
I loved Nicky and found myself thinking of her and her story long after I closed the book.
The book is well written even though it is from Nicky's point of view.
His love for his oldest daughter shone through I think on every page.
I still want to know more....like how Nicky's life turned out later, did her dad find love again and maybe re-marry?
Numa das caminhadas pela neve que os dois costumam fazer, encontram um recém-nascido abandonado à sua sorte, e este acontecimento irá mudar várias coisas na vida dos dois.O livro é contado na primeira pessoa por Nicky, cerca de 20 anos depois dos acontecimentos centrais do livro, o que facilitou a voz da narradora, no sentido em que a narrativa podia ser adulta e não adequada à idade que ela tinha na altura.
I could not put this book down.
It tugged at my hearstrings as I shared the pain, grief, loss and loneliness that jumped out at me.
As she is telling the story it shifts backwards and forwards which helped me gain a better understanding of why Nicky and her father were suffering the grief, loss and loneliness that they were.
I recommend it if you are looking for a book that you will feel for the characters as you read their story and ponder about what you would do and how you would cope in their situation.
What happens when a 12 year old girl and her father find a crying baby in the snow filled woods next to their home?
Well, you will have to read Light on Snow to find out.
I think you will be glad you did because it is another well written story by Anita Shreve that grabs hold of you and keeps you entertained and turning pages.
I have read all of Anita Shreve's books, although I haven't shelved them all on Goodreads yet.
If you haven't experienced her writing yet this would be a good one to start with.
Felt the cold, felt the sadness. Very easy to read, as are most of Anita Shreve's novels,
I'm pretty amazed at how many books I've neglected on my TBR.
I have no idea when I will read the last book that I pinned in 2015 (I really hope before February!!).Things I loved about this book, Light on Snow:1.
SNOW ON THE COVER3.
I loved everything about this book!
I loved how we are hearing about Nicky's past and how her and her father found a baby.
I don't know how many times I can say this, but I just loved this book.
Simply put, it was an amazing book that deserves to be read.
3.5 stars.
This story is told from the perspective of Nicky Dillon, who is reflecting on the events that took place the December she was twelve years old.
When Nicky was ten, her mother and baby sister Clara were killed in a car crash.
Now two years later, she and her dad, Rob, are living in an isolated and remote New Hampshire community.
One night they are out snowshoeing when they come across a newborn baby left in the snow.
As the story unfolds, Shreve brings to us readers realistic characters and her eloquent and fluid writing style.
Another Shreve success! I loved this audio book and could hardly quit listening when I got out of my car. I felt like I was in New Hampshire myself as I listened to the descriptive words used throughout the book.
But the story that follows is a beautiful, well-written compelling story of healing, hope, and forgiveness.One passage really spoke to me because I, too, have often wondered about the twists and turns of our lives that intersect with others' lives, and what would have happened if we'd taken a different path at all of the millions of forks in the road -- big and small."And then I begin to think about how my father and I drove north from New York and settled in a town called Shepherd.
The daughter starts to really like Charolette the 19 year old, she see's her as a an older sister or mother.
But the father is upset about her leaving her baby in the snow to die.
And what they go through with the law.I really enjoy'd this book because it's suspensful.
Your sad about the girls mom and baby sister dying.
It's a great book it keeps you hooked.
It made me feel like I was in the book with them.The writer Anita Shreve wrote this book so good.
You can visualize everything in the book.
It's more of a snapshot of the life of a father and daughter who live in an isolated cabin during a snowstorm and the finding of a baby in the snow which adds some drama and excitement into their lives - something that it sounds like the daughter really needs.Shreve did an EXCELLENT portrayal of a teenage daughter here.
You'll want to adopt her.The only problem with this novel is that it's too short.
This was the first Shreve novel, I have read.
If you're in to slice-of-life books, Shreve is a good treat.
It is not a new book, the publication date is 2004.
Nicky Dillon and her father have experienced great loss after an accident kills mother and younger daughter.
One day close to Christmas, Nicky and her father are taking a snowshoe walk in the winter snow, and respond to a baby cry.
After the rescue, Nicky is flooded with new emotions.
After her father takes the baby to the hospital, the babies mother shows up at their home.
At the same time, Nicky is going through a lot of emotional maturing and is looking for a maternal connection of her own.
Light on Snow is good, if a little, well...lightThis is the second book I've read by Anita Shreve (the first being Eden Close) and I did enjoy both.
The premise was very good and I thought the plot would be very interesting.
Over and over again it snows, we are told the precise posture of Robert as he sits, it is cold, things get a little tense and Robert goes outside to shovel snow.
Not a literary work of art, but a good plot and one that I wanted to see through to the end.
I will read more Anita Shreve.
I used to love to read this author, and then got soured by her last...well...six books.
They rush the baby to the emergency room and save its life, but the events that happen after end up changing both of THEIR lives, as they go through different trying times to deal with the discovery of this young baby.This book was a pretty quick read, but very absorbing as each of the characters are dealing with their own inner demons.
The author is really good about making the characters come to life, and you are drawn into this sad, and realistic story.
More words than that review: I just bought Fortune's Rocks from a charity shop and, half-surprising myself, really enjoyed it.
This was a slightly weird book for me to be reading now, really: it's set at Christmas in new England; right now it's a very sunny June in the real England.
Metaphorically snow everywhere while I was laying in the sun!
Her and her Dad discover an abandoned baby in the snow and it's about what happens and how it changes their relationship.
(Or maybe I'm just terribly cynical and cold-hearted.) Anyway, Fortune's Rocks was far superior.
Read that one, instead.
This is definitely a 50% book.
