https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1496332.The_Island_of_Sheep
Starts out a bit slowly as Hannay enjoys his idyllic and peaceful life before an old promise from the past pulls him into intrigue and danger. The only downside to this book is that it is the last one in the series.
Another exciting adventure for Richard Hannay, this time with his 14-year-old son (as well as his old friend Sandy & others).
The Island of Sheep is the fifth of five books by John Buchan featuring intrepid Richard Hannay.
I will get back to the 4th book in the near future.With all that preamble, The Island of Sheep brings a retired Hannay and some friends back into adventure to follow up on a promise they made to an old friend many years ago.
Hannay and his friends decide to help him against them.The adventure moves to Scotland, home of Sandy and then to the Island of Sheep, somewhere near Denmark / Norway, the home of Haraldsen and his clan, for the final confrontation.
Interestingly, Buchan uses these locales to muse on the long-buried savagery that still lurks in the Scots and Scandinavians, dwelling on Norse mythology, the sagas, Viking raids, blood feuds that span generations, and berserker states.
These plot twists, while unusual, are in line with Buchan's continuing preocupations with race and racial characteristics, while his emphasis on pre-civilized Europe echoes Conrad's thoughts on the subject in Heart of Darkness.
Sir Richard Hannay, retired mining engineer, lives a comfortable suburban life outside London, but feels old age and stodginess coming on and longs to have his mettle tested again.
He gets his chance when a promise he made years ago in Rhodesia, to defend the honor and fortune of a Nordic treasure-seeker and his heirs, needs to be fulfilled.
If any CS Lewis-approved author proves that our current non-classical education system is completely ineffective twaddle - this author does.
I need to read this book with a reference manual, because there are so many classical references that I'm completely missing.
Great underlying story - mixture of conscienceless criminals + half-baked manipulators in the business world, set against ancient underlying Nordic feuds that modern man doesn't understand....and then human instincts (not always logical) that kick in when you need them most.
Plus, it has the happy ending element of bad (always thinking that it finally has the absolute upper hand) getting thoroughly trounced by an unpredictable, thoroughly normal circumstance that they couldn't have engineered or guarded against.
The fifth and last Richard Hannay adventure. Hannay and friends (and two youngsters) combine to rebuff the efforts of a multifarious gang of blackguards to invade and capture a small Baltic island belonging to the son of an ancient enemy.Much better than I remembered, this as usual combines adventure, brilliant descriptions of the countryside and wildlife (particularly in the tidal marshes of Essex), and reflections on how to live a worthy and honourable life. Oh dear, no more in this series to read!
Another fun romp, perhaps a bit too close in structure to Huntingtower and The Free Fishers. But by golly the fellow could write! Honestly, Buchan has to be one of the most underrated authors of the 20th century.
After the success of the first book, four Hannay novels followed over the next thirteen years with Hannay becoming more involved in being a spy and in adventurous exploits in Africa.
Then the adventure really begins when Lombard introduces Hannay to Haraldson’s son Valdemar who turns out to be the frightened young man he had encountered in Norfolk.
The young man calls on Hannay and Lombard to honour a solemn promise they made years ago to stand by Haraldson and his son if Troth and Albinus ever troubled them again.So off they go looking for a safe haven for Haraldson.
A generally good example of this author's adventurous style, by no means his best but (thankfully) not his worst either.
It's more reflective than his other adventure novels but still a reasonably fast-paced yarn.
On the whole it's good fun and with a little more work it could have been truly great, but that's Buchan for you.
Similarly to his classic, Thirty-nine steps, this book contains adventure, danger, heroes and villains and at times is a hard book to put down, though at others a somewhat difficult book in 1930s English to read.
From this point the story progresses from demands to threats, blackmail, kidnapping and open warfare and is somewhat far-fetched, though there are great descriptions of various landscapes.While this book falls well short of the story line in thirty-nine steps, it is well written and well worth reading.
A really interesting read.
A true adventure story with plenty of action, nicely involving Hannay's young son this time.Very much of its time, written in 1936, it is dated in style.
This doesn't detract from the story, but got me a bit irritated at times.
After all, the women are safely left waiting in the background whilst the men do all the interesting bits.
That said, the young daughter of one of the charcacters does get involved, almost like some warrior queen, getting the locals to come to the aid of her besieged father.I enjoyed reading it, so do give it a go yourself.
This was the fifth and final novel written by John Buchan which starred that awesome spy-hunting, bad-guy-busting, luckiest-man-alive Richard Hannay.
After first, The Island Of Sheep takes off quite slowly.
There's certainly not as much action in this book as in Buchan's previous Hannay novels, but this is partially made-up for in the final few chapters.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, as I have with the previous four that I've read.
I really like this author's writing style and wish today's modern authors wrote similarly.
Buchan knew how to tell a good yarn, that's for sure!Read this book, but read the first four Richard Hannay novels first.
I confess... I just love John Buchan. The plots are so much fun, the characters are interesting (no cooky cutters in this one!) and the language is amazingly erudite, without being show-offy about the words the author knows. I admit that some of the dialects in the first one gets a little hard to get through, but there is little of it in here, just a taste, enough to give the flavor of talking to a native speaker without overwhelming the reader. Great setting for this book, and so neat to see more of Hannay's young son.
A great read, Buchan through and through. Although I was at first off-put by the appearance of a more aged Hannay, he has lost none if his vigour in this novel, and Buchan's decision to include Hannay's son, Peter-John adds another dimension to his character. With events such as a mountaintop siege in Africa, a thrilling car chase through Scotland, and a last stand on a Norland Island, the book, although initially slow, becomes fast-paced and exciting as the plot progresses.
Another classic Hannay adventure...
A great end to the series. The trip north to Norlands(/Faroe) was a particular highlight.
Hi jinksBuchan is one of the more liberal imperialists if you forgive him his quasi stereotyping you have here an excellent yarn of the ripping variety, in which the few good men who prepare a defence against a ruthless band of villains are ultimately saved by their children and a horde of latter day Vikings in a joyous deliverance, a fitting climax to a tense tale. It is much about the inevitable decline of age but all is redeemable in the succession of generations to the mark.
Another fabulous book detailing the adventures of Richard Hannay and friends. Being a lover of the Icelandic Sagas, I enjoyed the norse God references and ideas borrowed from the great Sagas. If only it weren't the last of the Hannay books - I have grown very fond of this particular world and its characters.
Probably the best-paced of all the Richard Hannay books, but spoiled by the sheer number of coincidences and the improbable climax. Hasn't aged as well as earlier books but still a great read.
Fun, but not as good as the others.
As a classic adventure great. You'll need to be able to ignore Buchan's racism to enjoy. I appreciate he is expounding ideas of his times but I don't live in them so these are hard to accept now.
Oh dear. Loved the descriptions of the landscapes. Different times...........
This has been the best of the Hannay novels, in my opinion. It is full of adventure although less fast paced and contains elements of northern mythology.
What an excellent adventure.
Hannay, now in a middle-age slump, falls into company with an old friend from his youth.
Shortly thereafter, two other actors arive on the scene, also connected with that old adventure.These things come together as if ordained by fate.
The son of an old enemy has sworn vengeance on the son of one of Hannay’s friends.
The bulk of the book sees that carried out through many adventures.The Island of Sheep is not the best of the series, but it is one of my favorites.
Fate stirs the pot in the beginning and personalities carry the rest of the story relentlessly on.
Son Peter John 14 plays more manly role, over-rules Anna, daughter of Haraldsen.
Martel, the Belgian" p 211 "one I hated worst" p 212.Directions to treasure in Latin are engraved on valuable rectangle of jade, Sandy just happens to find.
Yet Frenchman attacks Island home of Haralsens before Sandy arrives.
(view spoiler)[Sandy is disguised as Martel, saves children who kayak and board villains' boat, mistaking it for biologists.
Instead of asking for meat to feed hawk, he sends out porthole.Haraldsen, hidden safely away, exposes self, then Sandy, goes berserk like Viking ancestors, his obsession, throws D'Ingraville over cliff.
He is reminded of his adventurous days in Africa, and of a promise he made to a friend that he would always come to his, or his son's, aid.
Persued by a gang of criminals who claim they should have part of his fortune, he turns to Hannay and his friends, Lombert and Arbuthnot, to get him out of the fix.
Surprisingly, it is two children who manage to save the day.This was a lot shorter than the other books and so couldn't get too bogged down with characters.
If only the world was as uncomplicated as a John Buchan novel.
Community = Character.
In a world before easy travel people could be well defined by their community.
His habit of making people revert 'to type' in a crisis is a nostalgia for those settled older ways of life.
What's less acceptable is his habit of equating physiognomy with character, though he isn't crude about it, and he does let people overcome that.
Very shaky plot, I had no idea, and neither I suspect did Buchan, why the baddies were going to assault the island.
So an arch-psycho-baddy is conjured up to pep up the plot..
Listened to the audio book at work.
This is book number 5 in the series that started with "The 39 Steps".
The feeling I get from these books is "British Reserve".
It is hard to relate to characters who are tight upper lipped and who cannot show the complexity of character they must have.
We are used to a great deal more of moral ambivalence in an author dealing with this period of history.
Well done to the author for waving the flag one last time for Britain and I won't spoil the read by saying who wins!
