https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77617.A_Right_to_Die
One of the very best of the Nero Wolfe mysteries--and controversial for a mainstream detective novel written in 1964. A white civil rights crusader has her head bashed in with a billy club--souvenir from a Southern demonstration--and her black fiancee is arrested and charged with the murder. This novel is well plotted and continually absorbing, but I give it only four stars because Stout's diction and perspective--in spite of all his good intentions--sounds a bit racist forty years later.
Twenty six years ago during the events of the novel Too Many Cooks a young black guy helped the detective and so the latter considers himself to be in debt.
Considering the fact that it was written during the Civil Rights movement by the old guy - he was pushing eighties at the time - who also always considered himself a conservative the novel is as progressive as it could get.
Archie Goodwin did come out somewhat racist at that time - he is a typical white American middle class guy after all, but even in the early book he had to reconsider his views due to Wolfe's influence.
****.Stout has consistently avoided building his mystery cases around controversial situations.
The situation in this case is the state of race relations in America at the time of his writing.
Susan Brooke is a white woman who works with a black organization on a volunteer basis.
She has announced her engagement to Dunbar Whipple, a black man who is also a member of the organization and who comes from a family of well-respected activists in the Civil Rights movement.
The black community is soon galvanized against Dunbar and Nero Wolfe has his hands full keeping some kind of order among his clients.
I like to read Nero Wolfe mysteries for the time travel.
I would ordinarily not be writing a review for a Nero Wolfe novel, not anything more than a paragraph saying it was fun and exactly what I needed to read on a rainy afternoon with a sinus infection.
(And narrated in my head by Timothy Hutton.) The plot of the novel: a young black man, part of a civil rights organization, is accused of murdering his fiancee/lover.
I mean the word 'unquote' and you know it." ***Which is also to say, it's still very much Nero Wolfe.
Any Nero Wolfe mystery is a guilty pleasure to read.
In his pursuit of justice, Wolfe doesn't put up with flummery from ANYONE- not the police, not pontificating Civil rights leaders, not racists of any skin color; despite the odds against finding a racist murderer before an innocent black youth is unfairly convicted of the crime.
Wolfe's right hand man, detective Archie Goodwin is deliciously sarcastic and insightful about prejudice, race relations and crime in the 1960s, ansd some of his comments still ring true today.
If you have never read a Nero Wolfe mystery- this one is an excellent one to start with.
Long time fans will find it interesting to see how Stout takes his characters from the Depression Era 1930's to the turbulent early 1960's (as Archie struggles to remember that it is Kennedy International not Idlewild airport).No matter what year it is outside the brownstone the repartee between Wolfe and Archie is always wonderful (to me), the mysteries are sufficiently challenging to keep the reader guessing (usually) along with Archie right up to the minute Wolfe reveals all.
Those new to the series would probably want to read at least one or two of the earliest novels but it is not necessary to read these in strict order to enjoy them.
This one is ususual, in that the client is a character from a previous book, Too Many Cooks.
The client, Paul Whipple, was a Negro busboy in the previous book who gave Wolfe information which allowed him to solve that case.
Now he asks Wolfe to find out what's wrong with his son's white girlfriend (since there must be something).
Much less use of the n-word in this one than in the previous one, but it's still jarring, as is the use of "Negro" and "colored." I guess we're just not used to those labels now.
I needed a quick pick-me-up to escape from reading-drudgery to which I'd committed, and a Nero Wolf case was just the ticket. I got the unabridged audio version for the added bonus of hearing Archie Goodwin's wonderful sarcastic voice (in the form of actor Michael Prichard). The period depicted, early '60s, was an excellent portrayal of the racism in the USA, and Rex Stout took some courageous steps with this story.
Nero and Archie meet the civil rights movement. As always, a great tale; I stand in awe of Rex Stout's ability to take me into that world. The fascinating thing about this book is how jarring to modern sensibilities the progressive and enlightened attitudes toward race of 1964 now are. It's depressing that race is still a problem at all.
In A Right to Die, a decent story about the murder of a civil rights crusader, Rex Stout has botched his ordinarily masterful management of the Brownstone by allowing Archie and Wolfe to stray into the minefield of liberal white guilt. The fact that the two are treading unfamiliar and dangerous ground is obvious as soon as they begin the journey. Nearly every line spoken either by or about black people in this book is uniformly scripted by what were already (in 1963) well-entrenched codes of po
In A Right to Die, a decent story about the murder of a civil rights crusader, Rex Stout has botched his ordinarily masterful management of the Brownstone by allowing Archie and Wolfe to stray into the minefield of liberal white guilt.
After revealing the fact that his son is engaged to marry a white girl named Susan Brooke, and that both young people are members of a civil rights outfit, Whipple makes his request: he wants Wolfe to find some dirt on the fiancée so as to prevent Whipple Junior from saddling himself with the difficulties of an interracial family.
A Black professor who had listened to an impassioned speech by Nero Wolfe decades in the past comes to Wolfe with a personal problem.
His son is intending to marry a White girl.
He wants Wolfe to investigate the girl and her background.
Ordinarily Wolfe would refuse such a case, but he feels indebted to the man for help he given Wolfe all those years ago.
But when the girl is murdered and the professor's son is implicated the case becomes more intriguing.
As usual, Wolfe uses his intellect to solve the case.
I always enjoy Nero Wolfe novels.
I had trouble getting into this one.
The audio version I had was a digital recording of the cassette version, so there were a lot of long pauses between tapes.
I didn't care for the narrator either.
As for the story, it really had potential to be great.
A black man wanted to marry a white woman in the 1960's.
There was a lot of civil rights stuff, but none of it was really written about in depth.
It was hard to care about the characters because they weren't developed very well.
And the repeated use of the "N-word" drove me crazy.
Some of the language is striking when read today (though not as striking as "Too Many Cooks" - which this book is connected to) but was the language of the time so it makes a nice piece of history.
The characters are the same, and story is no radical departure from any other Wolfe book.
Nowadays he would have been expected to write longer and longer stories, which would force a change (like the dross Asimov pumped out) but 2-300 pages was his limit, and what he wrote worked well in this length.
It is the first time I have read a book by the author, and thus the first time I encountered Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
Wolfe was a wonderful detective; irascible, with a small hint of comedy, he was interesting enough to read about on his own, even without the gripping storyline, while Goodwin was an great companion for him.
Along with being a terrific, page-turning novel, the book is set at an interesting historical time, which adds yet more intrigue to the book.
Overall, the book was excellent, and Nero Wolfe is a character of which I shall certainly read more.
This book is a fascinating addition to the canon for two reasons...first of all, it's one of the rare cases that harkens back to one of the earlier books. Second, it deals with issues of civil rights, which is somewhat impressive since it was written in the early 60s, before it was certain which way the country would come down on the issue. While there are some questionable phrases and terminology, I think, at the end of the day, the book comes down to our villains being racist, while our heroes are not, and that's the important takeaway.
A Right to Die is another solid work in Rex Stouts Nero Wolfe series. There are some race aspects in the book that may seem a bit dated by 2018 but nothing outrageous. Wolfe is at his most brilliant but least eccentric in this book. Those who read some Wolfe books before know what they get.
Wolfe gets pulled into a murder investigation in payment of a debt incurred over 20 years ago. This one embroils him in a Civil Rights organization and a biracial marriage. Because of the setting, there are some strong racial terms in this one.
It wasn't until a friend of mine mentioned that the author was Rex Stout and like the Saint, Bulldog Drummond, or Philip Marlowe there was a whole series of books and short stories that involved the character.
One of the things that attracted me to the Nero Wolfe stories is that unlike some other golden age detective novels, they are supposed to be ageless.
Well in short it starts out with Wolfe and his main assistance Archie Goodwin trying to help the father of a black man find out the character of a rich socialite white woman and why she would be interested in his college aged and poor son.
I'm reminded of a comment that I had read of another curmudgeonly character--can't recall who it was--along the lines of "he's not bigoted; he's equally obnoxious to everyone." Wolfe respects equally, but he cuts people down to size equally, too.The plot was an intriguing one, and cleverly presented.
Rex Stout decreed that Wolfe and Archie would not age.
Wolfe is roughly 56 years old, while Archie is 33.
But then there's this book and THE BLACK MOUNTAIN, wherein a character jumps in and shows that time does, in fact, march on...sort of.
Archie should be 57 years old, and Wolfe should be 80!
Published in 1964, A Right to Die is a fascinating literary-historical periscope into the language and attitudes of left-leaning successful white men (e.g., author Rex Stout) when the fight against racism was first gaining traction.
The politics are muted, but there's a jaw-dropping racist outburst from one character whose prejudices have been hidden until Wolfe rips back the curtain.This particular case enters the West 35th St. brownstone of the famous detective in the person of Paul Whipple, whom Wolfe (and his assistant and narrator, Archie Goodwin) met many years ago at Kanawha Spa in West Virginia.
Paul Whipple opposes his son's plan to marry a wealthy white volunteer.
190 pages.The Nero Wolfe books by Rex Stout (co-starring and narrated by smartass gumshoe and man-about-town Archie Godwin) are all good books.
Now he asks for Wolfe’s help, and Wolfe is in his debt.Of course, more than one murder ensues.....Always entertaining, especially as these characters never age and roll along with the current technology, whether it is the 1930’s all the way to the 1970’s, and further as the series is continued by Robert Goldsborough after Stout’s death in about 1975.
This is the second book in a row that I've read where the violence tends to take place mostly off-stage, as it were, and we hear about it via dialogue.
I've never read any Nero Wolfe books before, though I've certainly heard of the character and author.
I like the way the story is narrated by Wolfe's offsider, so that Wolfe always appears to be slightly mysterious.
And the narrator himself is a lot of fun, intelligent, and witty and almost as sharp as Wolfe.
While Wolfe seems to have no racism in him, there's an element of it running through the book, not always negatively.
This one brings the VERY WEIRD chronology of the series to the fore, and I kind of love it for that.
But have Wolfe and Archie changed or aged, at all?
It's so weird!
I love them!This one includes a bunch of racial slurs, because racism is at the root of the murder.
Wolfe and Archie use what would have been respectful language then, but which reads sometimes badly now.
Archie does have a great moment where he says that if he's going to hate someone, he'll have a better reason than the colour of their skin, and there's a really solid acknowledgement that racism is irrational hate that poisons the world, but it's definitely not expressed in the way we would express that now.
But in order to clear Dunbar, Wolfe must shift the blame to the real killer, and he's convinced that the guilty party is in some way affiliated with the Civil Rights organization where Susan and Dunbar both worked.This book is proof positive that Wolfe and Archie remain untouched by the passage of time.
So it is rather surprising that Paul Whipple was not similarly protected by the cone-of-agelessness that surrounds Wolfe and his cronies.I confess, I am not widely read enough to know if Wolfe and Archie are the only examples of such timeless-yet-within-time characters.
A follow up to a novel Stout wrote 30 years earlier.Written in 1964, reflects the times of the civil rights struggle. Addresses inter racial marriange.Clearly Stout shows is lack of tolerance for bigotry, especially in his characters views.Archie has no problem envisioning marriage to Miss Tiger.
Well done story of 1960’s racial problems through Nero Wolfe/Rex Stout’s words.
Stout takes another stand on social issues. Brave.
As always with Nero Wolfe stories, a great read I couldn’t put down until the end.
Again, such a well-written book! It is a pleasure to follow the unwinding of the mystery. I would have given this full five stars if not for the old-fashioned attitudes.
Excellent! Interesting to see a book involving race published in 1964
