https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/245939.My_Naughty_Little_Sister
I'm trying to catch up on classics I someone missed, and this was on the list.It's a very nostalgic read, but also timeless - small children will always be mischievous, get into scrapes, do naughty and greedy things, and probably after saying sorry, do something similar again.The narrator's naughty little sister is one such child.
Seeing her having to go to her big sister's school was possibly my favourite chapter, watching her act grown up and proud, it was very realistic, thinking of my own son.The misadventures are mostly charming, sweet, and short for bedtime reading.
What a naughty little book! I am such a sucker for these sweet little British stories and my son likes them too--he laughed out loud! Great beginning chapter book for ages four through seven.
Ceritanya menghibur dan ilustrasinya bagus.
Some people like reading multiple books at once and flicking between them.
This is why it took me so long to read this book.
I need to read one book at a time, which I will do with the rest of the series that I will hopefully read a lot quicker.I enjoyed this book.
I have had these books for a long time and never read them and they are a very easy read.
The reason I gave it four stars is because I like a gripping book, and as each chapter is a different story, I didn’t find it gripping at all.
'My Naughty Little Sister' series of books were my absolute favourite as a child. I remember reading the whole series and wanting to read more! After re reading this book I loved it all the same! This book offers an insight into the mischief that 'My Naughty Little Sister' gets up to. She is always causing trouble which is very relatable to many young children with young mischievous siblings. It covers the simple theme of growing up through easy to read short chapters.
Canny. But liked the audio tapes better.
These are just a collection of short stories about a girl and her naughty little sister. Not much to say these are just simple stories for children that I should have read when I was younger.
Internet Archive: https://archive.org/stream/mynaughtyl...
Tak jarang, sang adik mendapat hukuman baik dari orangtua atau lingkungan akibat perbuatan nakalnya itu sehingga ia jera.Sebagian besar bab dimulai dengan kalimat, dulu, waktu aku masik kecil dan adikku masih kecil lagi.
Saya menyelesaikan novel ini dalam perjalanan Cileunyi, Bandung-Jakarta dan telah selesai ketika bus yang saya tumpangi akan keluar di pintu tol Kp. Rambutan.Meskipun si adik di-label nakal, namun sang kakak juga menceritakan kebaikan adiknya di bab 12 Adikku yang Nakal ke Sekolah.
Namun, di samping itu, Dorothy Edwards yang mengeluarkan buku ini pada 1952 sepertinya tahu benar polah tingkah anak-anak.
Dan meskipun latar waktu cerita berlangsung puluhan tahun yang silam, kisahnya tetap televan dengan polah tingkah anak-anak saat ini.
Memang sesuai dengan perkembangan jaman, melabeli anak itu tidak baik juga sih.
Tapi, percayalah, anak-anak nakal seperti di buku ini banyak banget.
Beli buku ini dari sini.
Si adik yang nakal ini sepertinya memang seumuran dengan anak saya dan sedang berada dalam fase curiosity dan senang berkata tidak.
Buku ini membuat saya kembali ke masa kecil dimana saya sering ditemani dengan buku bacaan sejenis.Satu hal yang kurang saya sukai adalah: anak-anak di buku ini terlalu banyak mengkonsumsi gula-gula.
So what of my thoughts so many years later?Well, I found all five books in the series quite charming BUT I did find My Naughty Little Sister to be more annoying than I had remembered her.
in book one alone there is talk of the milkman, the baker, the coalman, the window cleaner, and the 'shoe mender man' all of whom are friends of My Naughty Little Sister.Still, a great nostalgic read, I would loved to have shared these stories with our two nieces who alas are now, aged 22 and 13, probably too old to truly appreciate them as I did as a child.
My 6 year old got this book as a present. We read it together during bedtime and have enjoyed it a lot.
Sebenernya sih beliin buku ini buat ponakan saya yang baru kelas 3 SD.
Waktu kecil dulu kan banyak tuh buku-buku kayak Madita, Pippi Si Kaus Kaki Panjang, dan semacamnya.
Buku ini juga sama lah kayak buku-buku klasik anak-anak gitu.
Cerita tentang kehidupan sehari-hari seorang gadis kecil yang selalu ingin tahu, usil, dan sering akhirnya menangis akibat ulahnya sendiri.
Kenakalannya juga sebetulnya nakal yang menggemaskan gitu sih.
By the way, si naughty-little-sister ini sepertinya memang tidak pernah disebutkan siapa namanya ya?
Bahkan nama kakaknya yang bertindak sebagai narator dalam buku ini juga tidak pernah disebut.The kind of book that gives you a warm feeling about sweet childhood moment.
I thought that I remembered this story collection, since I remembered the characters, but I seem to have been mistaken - it must have been another in this series.
I think in a year or two she'll be a fantastic character, as she's spirited, intelligent and inquisitive, but for now I find her bratty behaviour brings about half of the stories down.Hopefully the box of kids' books that I found this in will yield the volume that I'm thinking of, which I remember enjoying as a child.
Meski buku ini tipis dan fontnya lumayan besar tapi aku butuh 3 hari menyelesaikan buku ini. Inginnya hati bisa tuntas dengan cepat namun apa daya harus dikombo dengan tilawah dan tarawih. *Sok alim banget* Bahkan untuk mereview buku ini pun aku harus mencuri-curi waktu itikaf. *Idiiihh sombong banget* :PAku gak punya adik sih. Belom pernah merasakan gimana ngurusin adek (yang bandel). Waktu kecil pun kayaknya aku gak diurusin deh sama kakakku. Padahal jarak usia kami terpaut 9 tahun.Buku ini bisa dibilang curhatannya si kakak terhadap kenakalan adeknya. Ya lebih kurang mirip diary. That was so cute!
When I was a little girl I had a naughty little brother to contend with, and so I preferred Judy Blume's Fudge series because I could relate more!
But as an adult I still got a lot out of these stories, with their old world English charm, delightfully naughty children and the sweet innocence of childhood experiences like going to the fair, the theatre or a party with lots of yummy things to eat.
My favourite story was 'My Naughty Little Sister makes a bottle-tree'; what a lovely way to teach children about nature.
jangan berkata 'tidak' atau 'jangan' kepada seorang anak. ini adalah hal yang diterapkan ayah rhe waktu rhe kecil dulu. dan ternyata dampaknya besar. karena jarang dilarang maka rhe bsa mencoba banyak hal. kalau baik diteruskan, kalau jelek akhirnya berhenti dan kapok sendiri.seperti itu juga ternyata masa kecil 'adikku' ini. satu yang paling ngena adalah saat dia kapok makan makanan favoritnya. dari suka banget sampai benci banget lalu ga doyan. rhe punya pengalaman serupa. 'adikku' dengan puding spons, rhe dengan kerang. kalau kau, apa makanan yang kau suka dan akhirnya membuatmu trauma?
Pertama sih tertarik karena cover-nya yang lucu. Ternyata ceritanya juga ga kalah lucu. Adikku ini memang banyak sekali tingkahnya. Anaknya keras kepala dan yah, NAKAL!!! Dia suka marah, ga mau nurut, dia juga pernah gigit tangan Santa Claus, merusak tanaman ayahnya, dia ga suka sama dokter.. Hmm.. Namun banyak juga kelakuannya yang lucu dan manis... Pernah dia ikut sekolah dengan kakaknya dan bersikap sangat baik tapi sampai ketiduran juga di kelas. Dia nyembunyiin payungnya di bawah jas hujan karna takut payungnya basah. Pokoknya lucu deh... Kadang gemesin, kadang nyusahin tapi kadang bikin orang sayang juga. Adikku memang nakal!!!
This book is one of a box set about the naughty little sister.
The books are entertaining and enjoyable with enough mischief to truly rope in all children.
The setting of the books and the surroundings are well described and charming, a stark contrast to the naughtiness of the title character.
This book is embedded in the innocence of growing up , a contrast to so many books where the protagonists are superheroes or live in exceptional circumstances.
In these books the characters do simple things in normal, relatable environments, which makes them perfect for comprehension and discussion exercises with all children in a class.
I read this book several times when I was young and would still read it again.
I always enjoyed reading this book and the little stories of the 'naughty little sister' that showed how siblings can argue but also get along and be there for each other.
I kept this book and will keep it so that when I have children, they can read it and hopefully they will enjoy it too.
Overall, I would recommend this book for children, but also older people may enjoy it too.
I guess the book is mainly aimed at girls, however I think that boys may enjoy it too.
Judul buku ini menurut saya tidak edukatif. Bukan adikku yang nakal tapi adikku yang selalu ingin tahu. Memberi label pada anak bisa mempengaruhi psikologis anak untuk mendorong dia menjadi seperti apa yang dilabelkan. Cerita di buku ini lucu, khas anak-anak yang selalu ingin tahu semua hal yang ada disekeliling mereka. Paling suka sama cerita Gigiku Goyah, mirip banget dengan cerita kanak-kanak saya dulu. Setelah membaca buku Dorothy Edwards yang pertama ini saya kepengin banget untuk koleksi semua bukunya. Menghibur!
Told in a series of chapter via the older sister, I do think that this would be a great chapter book to read with your kids.
Each chapter is really a a self contained short story, which makes it easy for bedtime reading.
Some of the language and situations are a little dated, but it is still an enjoyable read.I wish I'd read this when I was younger, I know that I would've enjoyed it so much more.
That being said, there were some funny moments in this that made me laugh, but I've had quite enough of precocious children for the moment.
I love the My Naughty Little Sister tales the little girl is always getting into mischief and its funny to know that children are still like that now, maybe they don't go and bite Santa's hand but they can still get into trouble a lot. The best thing about the little stories is that at the end she ends up correcting her naughty ways and is good again.I think children will love these books even 50 years after originally being published.
We've been listening to these charming stories on audiobook and my four year old absolutely LOVES them! I like them, as well, and I know this isn't an audiobook review, but I adore the version from audible narrated by Jan Francis. She captures the feel of the stories wonderfully. Each chapter is a short little anecdote of something silly/naughty/sweet/mischievous the little sister does from the big sisters perspective. My daughter has decided to call all of her dolls Rosie Primrose. :)
One of the books listed in "1001 Children's Books"*Our library has a compilation of all the "Naughty Sister" books in one big book - it's more of a chapter book than a picture book, there aren't many illustrations, but my daughters seem captivated by these stories, must more so than they are with most chapter books.
I loved the audiotape (yes, tape, not CD or download) when I was a child, read by Felicity Kendall.Today, though, it would probably be frowned upon to label a child as permanently naughty. Where's the incentive to behave well if you're going to be called naughty anyway? Same thing with Horrid Henry, really.
Ahaaii, nostalgia. Duluuu banget pinjam punya teman. Senang diterbitkan ulang, jadi bisa beli sendiri :D. Baca lagi, dan I was really enjoying it! Buka halaman awal langsung inget masa kecil menikmati buku ini. Gemeeess sama si adik, buandel kuadrat. Btw, ada yang tahu nama si adik dan kakak? *nyengir*
I used to read this all the time when I was younger, it was my favourite book. I found it again today and read it from front to back! Although I've grown up a bit since I first read it, it's still one of my favourites.
Bikin gemes nih bukunya...dan baru nyadar bahwa yang nerjemahin buku ini adalah penerjemah favorit, Alm. Ibu Listiana Srisanti yang bikin aku melayang lewat terjemahan Harry Potter-nya.... #mantafff
So nostalgic! These stories have stuck with me since childhood. My Naughty Little Sister reminds me of a friend and sound just like a real small child on her moods! I can't wait to share this with future children.
