https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/688191.Everlost
I honestly don't have the luxury of time to read novels as much as I want to because pre-med is draining the life out of me.
Everlost is one of those novels that destroys the reading slump.
There are rules that you need to follow if you don't want to end up falling, or being stuffed in a pickle barrel.
You wouldn't expect such developed characters in a YA novel, but Everlost managed to deliver what it promised.
Everything wrapped up nicely though, and the author managed to fill in the plot holes in this novel.
Everlost reminded me of several books I felt rather lukewarm about - Elsewhere, Lord of the Flies and Gone.
Even though I knew from the get-go Everlost would never be one of my favorite books, once I made a decision to stick with the story anyway, I came to like it a lot and even developed a good amount of affection for its characters.
For those who dropped the book early on asked me if it gets better, here is my answer - it doesn't really.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Let me begin by saying that . . . .  Nope. When I saw Will’s review and that Everlost was written by Shusterman I was all in. Unfortunately I was still floating on an Unwind high and failed to pay attention to the fact that this wasn’t quite going to push the envelope like that one did. What we have here is an unfortunate meet and greet between Nick and Allie . . .  When they “wake up” they discover something new about themselves . . .
When I saw Will’s review and that Everlost was written by Shusterman I was all in.
Unfortunately I was still floating on an Unwind high and failed to pay attention to the fact that this wasn’t quite going to push the envelope like that one did.
What we have here is an unfortunate meet and greet between Nick and Allie .
The remainder of the story is a quest to find others like themselves and a way to possibly make it back home.
As I said before, Everlost was extremely tame compared to my previous Shusterman experience.
Kids who die go to a sort of place but not a place existing between life and death called Everlost.
[I loved the details, like Shusterman thought of everything.] Food passes through if it had some special meaning to a person, like birthday cakes.
Every kid has a coin on them (representing the payment to pass on).
An older kid Mary Hightower (her name comes from her dominion of the world trade center) thinks she knows what is best for everyone else, and it is in her best interest to keep kids from passing on.
Mary Hightower publishes manifestos to lead lost kiddos to her cause.
“But we can't choose what we forget. The more we try to forget something, the more we end up remembering it.”  I should've read Everlost before. Even I idolized and worshipped Neal Shusterman, I stalled myself to read this book because I thought I will not enjoy an afterlife novel. Guess, I was wrong. I really did enjoy reading this one.Everlost is a limbo between life and death. It's where the dead children go. No adults. Just children up to the age of 14. It's like the afterlife but it is not
Even I idolized and worshipped Neal Shusterman, I stalled myself to read this book because I thought I will not enjoy an afterlife novel.
I really did enjoy reading this one.Everlost is a limbo between life and death.
It's like the afterlife but it is not?As a novel, Everlost is a fun but haunting one.
Shusterman described the Everlost like it was real.
There are still holes to fill and questions to answer about this bizarre world of the dead children.As a whole, Everlost is an engrossing read.
And it makes me think about life and death and to what will happen next.
It's good, just not Unwind's caliber of great.
Upon their death and on their way to the 'light' they collide and lose course, ending up in an intermittent state of existence, a land called Everlost.
Through their adventure in Everlost they come across other souls, as well as monsters, haunters and all things slightly bizarre.
There are some great lessons though that anyone can pull from the book including, the responsibility of power, what is truly important in life, what happens after death and the meaning of friendship, loyalty and choices.
On the one hand, as an adult reading it, I definitely found the writing style geared for juvenile readers around the age of 10-13 (which is who the book is marketed for).
On the other hand, I also continually wondered at the appeal to these same readers based on the way Shusterman presented his ideas on the afterlife of dead children.
Personally, I would have been disturbed at that age to read about dead children wandering around in another dimension and not being "where they were supposed to be".
Even as an adult, I was creeped out by some of the visuals and ideas that this book forced me to explore regarding the afterlife.
"There's no easy way to tell new arrivals to Everlost that, technically, they are no longer alive."  If you like ghost stories and chocolate, you will love this book.First, I'll say that I love the cover. It's simple, different and I just adore it. Now, Everlost had me hooked from the first chapter. It was an amazing attention getter. Two children die in a car accident. Yes. And the story was just so intriguing and crazy. The whole premise of this book is about children dying, and the world the
"There's no easy way to tell new arrivals to Everlost that, technically, they are no longer alive."
If you like ghost stories and chocolate, you will love this book.First, I'll say that I love the cover.
Now, Everlost had me hooked from the first chapter.
The whole premise of this book is about children dying, and the world they get lost in; the world between Earth and heaven/hell, Everlost.
So, Nick and Allie are stuck in Everlost and just want to find a way home.
The book follows their trials and errors in trying to do so.
Some get stuck in this world known as Everlost and these souls that are trapped here are known as Afterlights.
Even those who claim to be experts in the world take refuge and hide out in their own safe haven; avoiding the dangers that lurk in Everlost.
The story follows the main characters Allie and Nick who are Greensouls; new souls that have arrived in Everlost.
Seriously, you're a ghost that is also skilled with some magic and you torture your victims by locking them up in a pickle barrel?
Everlost is a scary place to end up in if you're unsure of any of the dangers that lurk.
Addicting, creative, fascinating tale that weaves something that could have been either cliched or overly creepy into something brilliant and original.Allie and Nick are dead, killed instantly in a car crash that involved their respective family's cars.
It is a full and fascinating world in its own right.Allie and Nick are different from most Afterlights; they're not content simply to wander eternally, forgetting their lives and falling into ruts of endless patience.
So already partway into the book, I was battling with my own thoughts as I read.
It got distracting and I often had to set the book aside in favor of something that wouldn't leave me shaking.Several months later, I'm proud to say I've finished the book.
For that, it gets a middle-ground rating.
By the end of the book things really picked up and we finally got some answers in this hazy, purgatory-like world.
As it is, I'm glad to be finishing 2015 with a read I'm proud I got through.
I imagine the center of the Earth must be a crowded place by now, but perhaps it is the spirits of those of us residing there that keep the Earth alive and green. It's really hard to find a good young adult novel. That's the genre I read most. However, it is also the one that displeases me most, because almost all of its books contain the same repetitive, tediuos and boring story that it's focused on a chiclé teenage romance. Neal Shusterman has done that weird thing: he wrote a young adult boo
Neal Shusterman has done that weird thing: he wrote a young adult book that doesn't fit into that category; whose characters are atractive and well-developed.
I started with Bruiser, and it became one of the most wonderful stories I've read.
The story of Everlost is nostalgic, but also moving and funny, because its characters are kids.
It might be disturbing to read about dead children who are trying to get their lives back, but Everlost is more than that: it is a imaginitive story about what might lie between life and death; a thought-provoking, memorable and magical book.
Actual Rating: 3 stars!For the first half of this book I wasn't really enjoying it. I was just kind of reading and hoping I would start enjoying it more soon. I'm really glad I finished this and did not give up on it.This book reminded me of Percy Jackson and the Lighting Theif, with the quests and adventurous feel to the story. It also reminded me of Shusterman's Unwind series. I really liked the Unwind series but I was not happy with how similar it felt to this series. Nick, Allie, and Leif re
Nick, Allie, and Leif reminded me of Risa, Connor, and Lev. And even the pacing of the story felt similar to Unwind to me.
I kind of like the side characters in this book more than the main characters, to be honest.
I'm a bit surprised he seems like he's making an effort to be a decent guy and is helping Allie.
Little by little we learn more about her and...let's just say the next book should be good.I was also a bit surprised by what happens to Leif, but it definitely makes sense and I'm glad it happened.
Wow, this one took me by surprise.
I've read Neal Shusterman before, but that didn't leave me prepared for this.
There are lots of books out there that have takes on the afterlife, but I think this one is my favorite so far.
There's a sense of mystery and discovery that some other great afterlife versions lack.
By the end of the book, I didn't feel like I knew everything about the afterlife, but that I was willing to keep reading to find out more.
A great cast of characters, and a storyline that is both satisfying and leaves me wanting more.
I'm trying to figure out why this was in a young adult section of my library... Anyways, this was okay, a little wacky but not in a good way. This is my first time reading Neal's writing, and I still want to read his other books, but I'm definitely not going to continue this mess of a story.
Now, I do not usual have any interest in books that start off with "so our protagonist is dead" because existential angst featuring teens is more drama than I can possibly find entertainment value in BUT if you're gonna give me a mystery land and the characters problems beyond being deceased, then you have my attention!
3.5 stars An interesting spin on the afterlife from a teen perspective. The protagonists are stuck in a kind of in between place. Well written and the teen heroes are less annoying and better written than many others I've read. Their decisions for the most part make sense. I enjoyed it but think I would have liked it more when I was 12;)
3.5 starsPlot- 7/10Characters- 7/10Writing- 7.5/10World Building- 9.5/10TOTAL- 7.4/10Quickie Review (no spoilers)- Neal Shusterman wowed me with Unwind.
Now, I had a friendly argument with another person who I was reading this with (Everlost was a buddy read with 3-4 other people), but one of the problems I had was the narrator.
Other people who read this with me liked the narrating style of this book.
Usually there's some kind of page break when the perspective changes, but in this book, the narrator would kind of jump back and forth between the thoughts of different characters in a particular scene without any warning.
Everlost is like Beetlejuice and The Lovely Bones together, a darker collection of lost things and lost people written in a very original style.
Delightful start of a new series for me.
3.5 Stars “There are mysteries in Everlost. Some of them are wonderful, and others scary. They should all be explored, though- perhaps that's why we're here: to experience the good and the bad that Everlost has to offer.” Everlost is a great story full of imagination and an abundance of different characters including Pirates, Collectors of kids, a monster and a haunter. This is a great book for middle grade and young adults alike. There are so many interesting things and action throughout it kee
It is interesting all the different things that end up in Everlost things that were once loved and died or were ruined including a few significant disasters of history.I really enjoyed how the author let us in on some of the mysteries of the world by reading excerpts from books written by Mary Hightower self-proclaimed expert on Everlost.
This is different from most MG/YA books in that the world is one between life and death but it is an adventure all the same.
This book is about Allie and Nick journey through the world of everlost.
They die in a car accident only they don’t reach where there are supposed to and instead get stuck in the eternal world of everlost.First thing to keep in mind while reading the book is that one shouldn’t compare it to unwind, or you would be bitterly disappointed.
But the book in itself has a very very interesting concept.
Neal Shusterman is a very creative author, and I loved his idea of everlost.
Twin towers crossing over inn this world, the sinking to the bottom and even McGill’s character were interesting.Loved the climax.
wow, I think I may have to come back and re-review. This is one that kind of sinks in. I would read a part and think "what the HECK did I just read?"but then I'd read another book or go about my day - but it would keep popping into my head - where the story was going, who the McGill was....just all sorts of random thoughts. It's a great story, just not at all like anything I've read before or what I thought it would be.but I know I liked it
I've had this on my shelf for a while now and I'm glad for the Pick Five thread in my YA group, otherwise I would have probably just kept pushing this off.I really liked it. Oddly enough I wasn't quite into Mary, but I automatically felt something for The McGill. I suppose that is backwards, but there seemed to be something vulnerable about him. I also really really liked Lief. And Nick. Great book. I can't wait to read the next one.
Everlost by Neal Shusterman - audiobook review  Nick & Allie were in a fatal car accident and ended up caught in Everlost, a sort of limbo for kids who don't make it where they are going when they die.
When Nick and Allie make it to the Twin Towers, they find Mary, who calls herself the queen of lost children.
Many of the kids have been around for hundreds of years, including Mary, who has written books on how to survive in Everlost.
One good example is portrayed in a conflict between Mary, the leader of the souls inhabiting the Twin Towers, and Nick.
Overall, the issue is simply that Nick and Allie both wanted a place to be where they felt they belonged.
From this point, the issue actually becomes worse when Lief and Nick are taken from the Haunter to the McGill.
In all honesty, this really was a good book and definitely worth reading because of the characters and themes and is very worth reading, but, because of the plot issues, I still stand with my 3.5 rating of the novel.
Es bueno pero no es juvenil, es infantil. Si tuviera 10 años me habría encantado ^_^
que me a gustado mucho. se me figura mucho el cuento de peter pan por lo de los niños perdidos, pero muertos.buena historia y los personajes, tambien como adapto cosas para incluirlas a las historia.
What happens to children when they get knocked off track on their "way to where they are going?" Neal Shusterman has created the Everlost.
Nick and Allie had to learn the tricks to living in Everlost pretty quickly if they wanted to stay aboveground.
Not knowing what else to do, Allie and Nick decided to go home and Lief decided to go with them since he hadn't left the forest in about a hundred years.
Mary Hightower considered herself the authority of all things in Everlost.
Nick and Allie had different opinions of Mary.
Having finished all three, it was good to see what a command Shusterman had over his overall story and characters from the very start.
I've read a bunch of Shusterman since first having read this, and I still think this series is his best work.ORIGINAL REVIEWHere's a kid's book that dabbles a bit in epistemology, the foundations of faith, and the creation of legends, and all without being either ponderous or pretentious.
And a destroyed 57 Chevy convertible might be a good example of the latter.)The kids don't really know how this world works, and so they learn about it mostly through experience and rumor.
