https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1583550.The_Theory_of_Capitalist_Development
Some parts of this book are obviously extremely dated, but it's surprising how much of it (especially the chapter on fascism, in light of recent developments) remains relevant today. All told, probably the best summary of Marxian economics in less than 4000 pages.
It was almost as if I had a private tutor explaining Marxian concepts to me, with some updated information that supported some of those theories and called others into question.Is the book dated?
So modern readers can smile knowingly at Sweezy's hopes and dreams regarding a new world order.Aside from that, though, this book is incredibly well-written, informative, accessible, and much of it is still applicable today.
As an academic piece I highly recommend reading The Theory of Capitalist Development.
It will give a solid look into the theory of both capitalism and of socialism, showing how the former actually works and how the latter intends to work.
Ultima nota curiosa, Sweezy è tra i più profondi conoscitori dell’approccio marxista all’economia ed allo stesso tempo proviene da una delle nazioni in assoluto più sgombre da contaminazioni marxiste o socialiste (con accezione politica in questo caso).A questo punto, è opportuno entrare nel merito dei contenuti di “The Theory of Capitalist Development”.
“The Theory of Capitalist Development” ha radici proprio in questi seminari; questa opera fornisce gli elementi centrali, rivisitati ed aggiornati alla realtà post Grande Depressione, della teoria economica marxista.“Il Capitale”, opera centrale di Karl Marx, è un testo che data 200 anni, estremamente dettagliato ed oggettivamente molto pesante alla lettura (parlo per esperienza diretta!).
This is my second reading, and in the intervening time I've read David Harvey and the three volumes of Capital.
These first three parts made much more sense second time around, but I ended up feeling that although a more difficult read Marx's text held more insight especially Volume 1.
Still this is a valuable textbook and summary.The remaining parts covering Imperialism and Fascism are showing their age more, and Sweezy becomes more dogmatic.
It is of more historical interest than a practical guide for current thinking.Overall a useful textbook approach but which lacks the insight and deftness of touch of David Harvey's 'Companion' or indeed of Marx himself.
Solid lucid summary of Marxian economics, explaining fundamentals like the tendency of the falling rate of profit, the tendency to underconsumption and the labor theory of value and showing how they apply to Marx's theoretical framework and critique of capitalism. The book was pretty dense because of how compactly it goes through so many economic concepts, but I'm ultimately glad I made it through. This is a must-read for anybody who wants to learn how to critique capitalism from a functional basis.
1942 Classic of Marxist economic theory by the Monthly Review founder. It summarizes the economic ideas of Marx and his followers. It was the first book in English that dealt with certain questions thoroughly such as the transformation problem: the problem of finding a general rule to transform the "values" of commodities into the "competitive prices" of the marketplace.Super complicated.I seriously doubt many can even understand this. That may be the reason why it has never been approached in comprehensiveness..
Los análisis de Luxemburgo sobre la acumulación capitalista, sus críticas a Marx y su teoría sobre el colapso del capitalismo han sido todos replicados vehementemente desde que se publicó su primer libro. Para buenos resúmenes de estos temas ver Paul Sweezy, The Theory of Capitalist Development (New York: Oxford University Press, 1942), pp. 202-207. Imperio Pág.169
I loved this when I was a teen. It's still the best explication of Marxian economics.
