https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6315482-the-playground
Bradbury describes a scene where a father, a recent widower, looks on with fear and trepidation as his young son is first confronted with the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, but on a playground where these fears are manifested in scraped knees, bloody noses and chased tears.Bradbury then goes one step further and creates a situation where the father has a choice, a real and then a paranormal decision to guard his boy against the dread of a violent and uncaring childhood.
If you're a parent or an older sibling, you probably know this feeling very well - the intense protectiveness and the fear of letting the child step out alone into the big and cruel world. *After all, in the words of Stephen King,  "The world had teeth and it could bite you with them anytime it wanted." "Really! Who said childhood was the best time of life? When in reality it was the most terrible, the most merciless era, the barbaric time when there were no police to protect you, only parents p
I remember how I always wanted to shield him from the world that has teeth - and how beautifully he has done without our protection, how he did not need a well-intentioned guiding hand, how he used the meanness of the world to grow up to be a very decent man.And remembering all of that, painful as it was to let go and watch the child learn to navigate the big scary world, I feel all the sympathy for Bradbury's Mr. Underhill - 
This just in: it turns out that kids can be monstrously terrible to each other. Feel free to take a moment to integrate this revelation into your heretofore innocent worldview. How did I come to know this terrifying secret? From  Ray Bradbury  of course. (Although I do have this weird blank spot in my memory for the duration of what should have been my middle school years, but let's ignore that for now).  The Playground   (available for FREE on audible) manages to pack a walloping creepiness pun
Feel free to take a moment to integrate this revelation into your heretofore innocent worldview.
(Although I do have this weird blank spot in my memory for the duration of what should have been my middle school years, but let's ignore that for now).
The Playground
(available for FREE on audible) manages to pack a walloping creepiness punch into a short story of a father troubled by his memories of his time at the playground, and what such an environment (“an immense iron industry whose sole product was pain, sadism and sorrow”) might entail for his young son.
This is a super short FREE audio @ Audible that manages to create a familiar scenario with a dastardly twist.
This is a creeptastic, atmospheric tale about a neurotic man doing his best to save his young son from the trauma that surely awaits him at the playground.Though I could feel his pain, the father was a bit of a mess and I felt sorry for him and the kid.
Let the kid be a kid, I wanted to scream, but damn if that man listened to me!I mean, it's not like the playground had one of these:
This was a nice creepy short story and it's available for free on Audible. Bradbury's wonderful prose comes right on through, even though the story isn't long. In about 45 minutes, I was suitably creeped out and it didn't cost me a dime.
I have to admit I am not a fan of Bradbury at all. I thought Fahrenheit 451 was a weak watered down version of 1984 with cardboard cutout characters. And I felt the Martian story collection was just boring. But this story is haunting and evocative. I guess will have to give Bradbury another chance.
Quando criança Charles sofreu muito em um playground onde era maltratado , humilhado e surrado por crianças maiores que ele. Agora Charles tem um filho de três anos que quer brincar nesse playground. Ele vai fazer de tudo para proteger seu filho dessas crianças que ele vê como demoníaca, e desse parque que ele vê como sendo o próprio inferno.
The fears of children are varied and this novelette by Ray Bradbury crystallizes a child and a parent’s fears in a tight, disturbing, trippy story that will send a shiver up your spine.“Are all playgrounds like this?” Underhill said.“Some,” replied the boy on the playground.
Things are what you want them to be.”And in this story, the Playground is hell, the place where children go to be bullied and beaten, and it is this fate, that of living a childhood of torment, that Charlie wants to save his son from experiencing.
Here's why!" This was my first Ray Bradbury story and it won’t be the last.
Ray Bradbury is one of my all-time favorite authors, and this is the first of his works to be made available as an e-book. Some people have noted that "The Playground" is dark and disturbing; I can't deny that. However, it is very well-written, to the point that the dark and disturbing is made palatable. This story will grab your attention and never let go until the final word. I wouldn't necessarily recommend it for someone who has never read Bradbury before, but if you're already familiar with his work, you will enjoy this.
If you know me personally, then you know that I love me some depressing dark dystopian literature.I love how Ray Bradbury can make something as cheery and happy as a children playground the most depressing darkest pit in the world.Absolutely an amazing book! If you read Fahrenheit 451 and liked it, then you'll love this one!
Not as creepy as some other Bradbury, though I was reminded of the merry-go-round and carnival in "Something Wicked This Way Comes" when thinking about the Playground and the person who runs it.
“Are all playgrounds like this?” Underhill said.“Some,” replied the boy on the playground. “Maybe this is the only one like this. Maybe it’s just how you look at it, Charlie. Things are what you want them to be.” Брэдбери – мастер превратить самую простую и незатейливую идею во что-то невообразимо стремное и выдернуть общепринятое мнение с корнем из уютной ямки, где то обитало множество лет, питаясь привычкой людей верить в устоявшиеся заблуждения. Детство – самая счастливая пора, говорите? Фиг
“Are all playgrounds like this?” Underhill said.“Some,” replied the boy on the playground.
“Maybe this is the only one like this.
Но на деле же это рассадник зла, средоточие насилия и жестокости, площадка для старта во взрослую жизнь, где выживают сильнейшие.
Чарльз Андерхилл очень хотел защитить своего трехлетнего сынишку от ужасов детской площадки.
Оградить ребенка от уроков жизни и неизбежных синяков по пути?
И одновременно описание площадки, распространяющей вокруг себя ауру боли и насилия, заставляло лишний раз вздрогнуть.
Детские площадки не могут быть такими.
у какого родителя поднимется рука зашвырнуть своего ребенка в это пекло?annikeh.net
Underhill ha perdido a su esposa y tiene un hijo de 3 años, Jim. Su hermana le insiste en que lleve alNiño al parque a jugar, pero Charlie se siente preocupado, entiende que los niños son malos y que la infancia apesta, por lo que desea proteger a su hijo y no quiere que juegue en el parque.En el parque hay otro niño, Tom, que le confiesa es su amigo Adulto Tom Marshall, quien también se preocupó por su propio hijo, por lo que decidió cambiar de lugar con el.
Resulta que el parque tiene ese poder, si juegas en el.
An interesting perspective on parenthood, and wanting to protect your child. But there's also a part of me that thinks Underhill wanted to be a child again, though it was hell. When Underhill thought about adulthood, and his push button job, and the same grey tunnel-vision route, and growing old without his wife, he didn't seem too enthusiastic about it all. Or maybe I'm just crazy, but it certainly added a new dimension to the story for me. Anyway, I love the Twilight Zone feel of this story.
I love Ray Bradbury.
Bradbury's playgrounds must have been really rough, maybe it's a generational thing.
Awesome narrationspooky/creepy vibeshort storyultimate sacrifice overprotective parenting
10/24/14 - Free audio book download from Audible.com.
FREE at Audible
Audible freebie.
Me encantó! Una historia corta que dramatiza los temores que vivió el protagonista en su infancia para resolver (con un toque de fantasía) a la pregunta de: ¿qué tanto estás dispuesto a hacer para proteger a tu hijo del lado oscuro de la niñez? PD: La historia me hizo recordar a los capítulos de “¿are you afraid of the dark?” o “escalofríos” (goosebumps) jajaja muy buena!
Oh boy did this hit home! As a parent you do want to protect your kids but you can't trade in yourself so they won't feel the pain of growing up. I recommend this sorry for all intents of toddlers and press schoolers I liked how his sister was helping him raise his son, and how she knew kids need to start learning how to deal with the bumps and bruises of life.
"I'm the father, I'm the daddy, I'm the pop! I'm the father, I'm the daddy, I'm the pop!"  With the words of sacrifice, a spell, a prayer, an invocation? The daddy saves his son, and takes the place of the son.... "
Classic Bradbury. Very-well written. Love his use of vivid imagery and figurative language to imply suspense. It's disturbing...and I enjoyed it!
Good short read
Audiobook - father is paranoid his 3 year old will get the crap beaten out of him if he lets him play with other kids. Didn't really get anything deeper than that.
Well that was disturbing.
My library’s copy of Fahrenheit 451 included two of Ray Bradbury’s short stories—The Playground & And the Rock Cried OutThe Playground tells the story of Charles Underhill, a worrisome single father of an almost-3-year-old who gets help from his sister raising young Jim. One day she suggests taking Jim to the local playground but Charles has seen the children there beat & bully each other & wants to protect his son from the horrors of childhood.
Unlike most stories that look back at childhood with fond nostalgia, Bradbury presents a character who hated his younger years and would do anything to keep his son from going through the same thing.
"Si tenía suerte, al llegar al bachillerato los golpes y crueldades se refinarían a sí mismos; el mar de sangre y saliva se retiraría de la costa de los años y dejaría a Jim a orillas de la madurez con quién sabe qué perspectivas para el futuro, con el deseo, quizá, de ser un lobo entre lobos, un perro entre perros, un asesino entre asesinos. Ya había bastante de todo eso en el mundo"
This was an interesting short story about the horrors of a public playground and a father who is worried about his son being picked on too much. Were playgrounds less safe 50/60 years ago? Were bullies more prevalent? It’s a little weird but it’s still fun in the old-school-sci-fi type perspective. Audiobook narrator Jonathan Davis rating: 4 starsJonathan Davis is a terrific narrator. Though, he wasn’t at his best for this short story. Likely because it was short with very little characters. Either way, he’s still way better than others.
