https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28689.Stone_of_Farewell
My review of The Dragonbone Chair did not do the novel justice.
See, The Dragonbone Chair ended on such a note that I just did.not.have.the.time to think about a decent review.
George R.R. Martin is on record saying that this series inspired him to write A Song of Ice and Fire.Simon is a great reluctant-hero type.
I could go on and on: the characters in here are as real as it gets in genre fiction, and there are many of them.At times touching, at times amusing, but always rousingly epic - this is the series to read if you’re into high fantasy.
A bit too long even for my taste, although, if you ask me, I don’t know what could have been cut from it.
We follow our heroes’ quest throughout Osten Ard, but now we have more threads.
The remaining ‘good guys’ are scattered throughout the land, each trying to reach the Stone of Farewell, the last safe bastion from the Storm King.There is a single wow moment, for me at least, and it was at 96%.
However, there isn’t a single dull moment in the whole book.
It’s just that their journeys are taking too long and I’m tired and frustrated that nothing good happens to them.
Such a great second book in a series. Plenty of characters, great characters, challenges which showed more of the main characters reactions and humanity. Amazing plot, properly written and developed. Just the right amount of cliffhangers. Also, great female characters, stronger than average and annoyed by being contained in a stereotype. I felt completely immersed in the story and invested in the characters.
There’s an awful lot of walking, while keeping a look-out for the bad guys.
In fact, you could probably sum up the whole book in one sentence: Most of the good guys get to the Stone of Farewell.I guess what made it worthwhile for me was learning quite a bit more about the Sithi (Williams’ version of Elves).
Those who don’t like elves, trolls, and magic swords should definitely pass this series by!Book 250 of my Science Fiction and Fantasy reading project.
Tamam kad mu htjedoh dati trojku, Tad se izvuče na samom kraju.
A što sam samo trojku htio dati?
Jer za mene ova knjiga pati od sindroma druge knjige, gdje se glavna priča samo minimalno pomakela naprijed.
Imamo mnogo arcova ovdje, od kojih mi je samo Simonov bio baš zanimljiv, dok su ostali bili za moj ukus previše razvučeni.
Oko priče se slabo može sta novo napisati, jer se baš malo oko glavne priče desilo, ali Williamsova naracija je i dalje perfektna.
Krajolici Osten Arda su tako divno opisani, da se može zaviditi Tadovoj mašti.
I'm so glad I finally returned to this series after 9-10 months and getting into it felt like a breath of fresh air or more like cold air for this case.I would recommend everyone to give this series a try with The Dragonbone Chair, if you want a classical fantasy story with great worldbuilding and fine details I would start here and like I said earlier I personally enjoyed this series more than the first 2 books of the Wheel of Time series.
I find that classic fantasy often tends to fall into some of the tropes I don't love very much (sloooooow pacing and not so developed characters were the two major complaints with this book) but when I am in the mood to read a classic fantasy series I do enjoy a good one and I think this one is that :)Simon is the main character for a lot of the first book but I feel like in book two we start to branch off into a few different plot threads and follow more people in detail.
Our view of the world expands and its full of magnificent places, people and their stories.
Apart from the Middle Earth this is the only place that I can say that I love the Elves.
I also liked a lot the horror and darker elements that appeared in bigger numbers.
The enemy is spreading like a plague and the world is turning fast to a menacing and dangerous place.
Especially to people who prefer faster and action oriented stories but if you like a more romantic and adventurous approach u ll probably appreciate these books a lot.
A lot of description, that didn't feel entirely necessary in some scenes - while at other places it felt perfectly balanced, even though it had some minute details.What bugged me (as everyone knowing me will expect) was that there was quite some being in love in this one.
(And yes, I think that would still have been possible with some less flowery descriptions here and there.)I thought some of the characters actions overly naive, and it had quite an episodic feel to it in places - also the fight scenes were a bit predictable and I had a deja vu of LOTR - and they are walking (or sometimes riding in this one) and walking, and still walking, and more walking and how surprising - even more walking!
I hate this book. Here, let me sum it up for you so you don't waste all the time I did hoping this monstrosity would get better.Some people walk through a forest. A fight happens. Someone falls down and has a prophetic dream that they never tell anyone about. More walking through the forest. Repeat ad nauseum.Yes, that was the entire book. People 'falling senseless' or whatever the heck every ten pages, a lot of whining, and the occasional anticlimactic pointless battle followed by more passing out and walking through the forest. What a waste of time and space.
They all seem pitiful, shallow and weak.I am hoping this changes in the next book.I do still love Simon, and it is his character that keeps me going.The pace in this book is a little faster, but the author still over does it with flowery descriptions and I found myself skimming at times, I just wanted to scream..get on with it!It also seemed there is alot of writing about crap that doesn't reveal much.
I can't really explain it but I read paragraphs and paragraphs and find the characters don't learn anything new or go anywhere.I know this sound negative considering I gave 4 stars, in truth it was a good book, but perhaps it is just that the writing style is a little outdated.
Used mostly my ebook version to get through this one as well - I will stick a review on the ebook version later on too (urgh - so many mistakes Hachette UK!) - I also need to add a new edition for the Google Play version of the ebook for Stone of Farewell - don't feel like doing it now as I would have to get into the logistics of working around keeping the review for the paperback and the ebook separate?
Argh.Anyhow - To Green Angel Tower we go!!!
This book is amazing. Full of magic and intrigue, characters were awesome. Plot was engaging, but it is still bit too long. Picking this book would be great way to loose couple of hours or, in my case, weeks. I'm slow reader, but it was worth reading this book.
Re-read on audio. Will review at www.fantasyliterature.com.
This is definitely my favorite out of the four Tad Williams books that I've read so far! Stone of Farewell is pure awesomeness! :)My Goodreads Rating/Score: 5 out of 5 Stars / 10 out of 10 on my own scoring system.
I think my favourite thing here is how the story opens up into this phenomenally epic thing - not that the first book wasn't epic, but we still mostly stayed close to Simon and his journey.
One of the journeys I love best has to be Josua & Co. on their trek east, how they run into the Thrithings people and how he and Vorzheva slowly begin to develop a deeper understanding for each other (yeah, I can never help rooting for those crazy kids and their completely opposing personalities).
Stone of Farewell, the sequel to The Dragonbone Chair and the second book in the Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn epic fantasy series continues the journey of our cast of main characters - quite literally.Simon and his friends might have found the sword Thorn, but a single sword is not enough to bring down King Elias.
It deals with the repercussions of the events that end The Dragonbone Chair, and follows the main characters as they start to get ready for their final stand against Elias in the final novel of the trilogy.
I got to admit, all of the characters are way easier to keep track of in Williams' books.For me Stone of Farewell hit all the spots.
When I first read this book twenty years ago I was frustrated with the side characters/stories because I had no patience and thought this story should be about Seoman alone. Now I can laugh at how foolish and shallow I was and marvel at how beautiful the story truly is. Tiamak's inner struggles alone would be worth a story about. This is an excellently crafted tale that adds depth and life to this trilogy.
On my third (possibly fourth) reading of this book, I realized something: it was just as good as the first time I read it.The splendid cast of characters, all real individuals, are just as engrossing. The layers of plot (and plotting) are just as tight and as fascinating.Thus I maintain my stance that this is one of the best fantasy series of all time.
Beautiful prose, interesting and complex world, an extensive cast of well defined characters (even females!), however the pace was slower that I would have liked, I wasn’t exactly bored but I felt I was meandering along the story.3.5 stars rounded down
Auch beim 2. Mal wieder toll <3Einerseits möchte ich die Reihe gleich weiterlesen, andererseits hab ich auch Lust auf was neues und noch soviel Ungelesenes... Luxusprobleme eines Bücherwurms^^
This one is a tough one for me.It's a re-read and I haven't read this book since it was first released 30 so years ago.My memory has always told me that it's my favorite fantasy series of all time and I loved the last book...this one was not as good.The writing is beautiful, almost poetic.The characters are amazing, probably a hundred or so, all fully formed.
This amazing fantasy series continues in the second volume with more excellent plotting, characterizations, and world-building.
It reminds me of the Two Towers, which is also a "middle" novel, where events continue to progress from the first novel (and there's a lot of traveling and characters moving around).
(But, I am an impatient person who gets so into the story and the intensity, that I can't be patient!) My favorite character continues to be Simon, who reminds me of Harry Potter in my favorite of that series, The Order of the Phoenix, because he acts exactly like an angry, emotion-ridden teen who is on the threshold of adulthood, and it's very realistic.
It is a journey fraught with peril - filled with Giants and creatures that crawl beneath the ground - and not all the dangers are as mysterious as the creatures of legend, for the evils of man are just as treacherous as the teeth of the most fearsome beast.This, the second book of the MS&T trilogy plunges us head over heels into the epicness of Osten Ard. The world that Tad Williams has brought us truly shows how steeped in lore and history it really is.
It raised the bar on which all other stories were to be judged and, rarely, has anything ever come close.What a treat.
Readers of fantasy know that, quite often, the second book in a trilogy suffers from the dreaded "black sheep" syndrome.
Luckily for us, Tad Williams is a master of the genre and handles this unfortunate yet necessary anomaly with such grace as to make it almost non-existent.
But rather than plodding through as I often do, I found myself enjoying every detailed moment.In Stone of Farewell you will find that the cast of characters have diverged into separate adventures and the storytelling jumps between each of them in turn.
An extraordinary read for lovers of epic fantasy -- I cannot wait to get my hands on book three.
Stone of Farewell picked right up from the abrupt ending of Dragonbone Chair. I was extremely pleased that all of the characters managed to find themselves in a variety of interesting situations, always keeping me turning those pages. I found this book to be considerably more entertaining than the first. It wrapped up with a satisfying conclusion. I'm jumping right in To Green Angel Tower (Part 1).
KUMSKI BOOK CLUB READING CHALLENGE 2017 - 6(naknadno dodana, fantasy book, book over 400 pages)Moram reći da je puno puno bolja od prvog dijela. Prvi me apsolutno smorio, a drugi dio je od početka napet, zanimljiv, pun akcije. Likovi su odlični, pratimo ih nekoliko, raznolike, zanimljive, a ne kao u prvom dijelu pola knjige samo Simona.Toliko mi je dobro sve napravljeno da sad jedva čekam vidjeti što će s kim od njih biti i kako će se izvući iz svojih nevolja.
I remembered somewhat why I’d found a particular character so annoying, which was a little disappointing after rather enjoying their part (such as it was) in the first book.Pryrates remains an excellent villain of the cackling evil laugh sort, doing evil things with little remorse.
Elias is a little more grey-shaded, but really not much: this series up to this point has a pretty black-and-white view of morality, with the Sithi perhaps being the most subtle element.I’m enjoying it very much for what it is: very much drawn from fantasy tropes, but with a solid cast of characters who don’t fall too easily into stereotypes.Reviewed for the Bibliophibian.
Still want to punch most of the characters, but I think this book was all about personal fragility, and some general buttheadedness...I love the audible version of this, very well read. Now to book 3....
Simply divine! Couldn't get enough of it.
