https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81227.Infidel
I'm going to see that Ayaan Hirsi Ali is feverishly hysterical and that what she says might apply to the immigrants from Africa and even more so from Arabia, but not to British Muslims.The girls, who all wore hijab and a lot of makeup looked very pretty.
That equates to 165 girls a year killed for stepping out of line by having boyfriends, being rape victims and other 'crimes' against the male idea of honour.Much respect to Ayaan Hirsi Ali. Despite living under death threats for speaking the truth about the position of women.
MARCH 25, 2015Immensely disliked this book and tired of all the comments so I took down my review. Moving on!
Any woman born as a Muslim who has the courage to write a book openly critical of Islam has my respect.
The letters and phone calls between her and her father are painfully real and troubling, especially when read in the context of the harshness and violence of the culture from which she came.
These attacks and the world’s responses thereafter led her on a spiritual journey of questioning her faith, questions and doubts that had been brewing for some time.When I was in Iraq back in 2005 (roughly the same time this book was coming out), I met a man named Omar, he was a Kurd, who spoke English and we struck up a conversation.
Ayann is my age too, and her childhood was very similar to Omar’s.
"Infidel" is the personal story of Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a Somali woman who, after a loveless childhood (to put it very mildly), came to Holland at the age of 20 claiming refugee status to escape an arranged and forced marriage, and to assert her independence.
Surely stuff for a book, but that's not even the main story.The main story is the oppression of Muslim women, back where Hirsi Ali grew up but also in Holland, where African Muslim immigrants often seem to live the way they used to – outside Western society and in disregard of Western values.
Even just the degree of time they had to spend learning about Islam and the Quran, meant they were limited in the time they had to learn about other things.The incredible thing was that when Hirsi Ali finally absconded to the Netherlands and met Western culture and ideas, she was able to take huge intellectual gulps of fresh air, and embrace the freedom, politics and fairness of the society she found there.
She talks about Muslim enclaves in our cities, where all sorts of gross Islamic traditions are still being continued - forced marriages, domestic violence against women, FGM and honour killings.
He was reading this book and espousing Hirsi Ali's views.
The next day, I lent him my copy of the Quran so that he'd have some background on the basic text of the religion he was trashing.
For the record, I think religion is a load of garbage, but I recognize its many compelling characteristics, the difficulty of coolly analyzing the components of one's upbringing, and the charisma of leaders who believe strongly in something.In any case, the day after my friend grumblingly accepted my Quran, saying he was just sick of the whole thing, he handed me this book.
I feel like my imagination isn't big enough to even begin to comprehend what life is like growing up in Somalia, Kenya, and Saudi Arabia - as a female Muslim with an absent father and an abusive mother.
So, the most interesting part of the book, in addition to getting an insider's view and perspective on Islam, is when Ayaan makes a run for it and becomes a refugee in Holland.
The murderer was Muslim and says he killed Theo because he spoke out negatively about Islam.
I'm revising that stance now and am wondering how I could ever have been so blind.Here in Norway, where I live, everyone is ever so willing to adapt to immigrants.
This book confirms my view and is concerned at how (some) asylum seekers form enclaves and refuse to adapt to western society.
I saw this particularly during the years I lived in Germany, with the Muslim women who could not speak a word of German.
This book is about the life of Ayaan.
Women's sexuality must be repressed at any cost, otherwise society would fall apart, Ayaan was told.
That’s why I’d love if I could have another opportunity to speak again with Belgrade’s Imam who is a very dear man, but I’m wondering if he’s not aggressive toward Christians and doesn’t call his believers to be aggressive; if he doesn’t think that he lives in the country of nonbelievers; if he preaches love, peace and tolerance he must be considered as a bad Muslim from the point of view of the followers of traditional Islam about whom Hirsi Ali is writing because that is not what Koran demands.This book, her entire life is a monument of freedom of speech.
This masquerades as pure autobiography of the daughter of an iconic Somali revolutionary, who was absent for most of her life and left her, her brother, and her sister to be cared for by a heavy handed grandmother and an abusive mother.
As an autobiography, it does not let you down, although it does drag a little slower towards the end.When reading this book, however, you quickly realize that there is somewhat of a political agenda.
I am not sure if most Americans would understand this since most would know very little, if they know anything at all, about Ali. The fact is that she is, again, the daughter of a highly respected Somali nationalist and revolutionary.
Some of the reviews on GoodReads for Infidel have accused Ayaan Hirsi Ali of using the platform of autobiography to expound her political views and have suggested that any American reading this book may not pick up on a perceived subtlety of doing so (whereas, one suspects, in Holland this is quite obvious).
In that way, I think Infidel works splendidly as a political work, particularly in the second half once Ali begins finding her identify.
In fact, I believe it is the second part of the book that Ali shines, both as a human and as a writer.
She was also genitally excised (clitoris and labia removed) - the sole purpose being to inhibit sexual enjoyment.
Her goal then became to wake up the Muslim-Islamic community to its own inner repression - and to alert the Dutch and greater Western community to the "backwardness" found within Islam (it was only after 9/11 that people started listening).
Children are sent to Quoranic schools where they are NOT taught positive Western/European values - like the equality of women.
Her goal is still to expose the evil and repressiveness of this fundamentalist cult and to get refugees and immigrants to adjust to democracy and the freedoms of Western & European society.
A truly fascinating and inspiring autobiography of a true human rights activist and a truly courageous fighter who has survived the victimization of Islamists and their despicable leftwing backers, for speaking the truth and standing up against evil and abuse of women.The author talks of her childhood and youth in Somalia, Saudi Arabia, Ethiopia and Kenya,and of the narrow minded bigotry of the Muslim world today.She recounts the horrors of genital mutilation in Somalia, the racial prejudice in Saudi Arabia against non-Arabs (especially Africans), the complete hatred and Nazi-like brainwashing she witnessed in Saudi Arabia against the Jews (which takes place in most of the Islamic world: "In Saudi Arabia everything bad was the fault of the Jews.
This book opened my eyes to the Muslim world and completely changed my views. It is remarkable what one woman can do to affect change. I cannot recommend highly enough, especially for women.
Ali has had a fascinating life and one of the strengths of this book is her descriptions of her childhood.
The book goes on to cover Ali’s avoidance of an arranged marriage and her move to Holland, her gradual learning of the language and customs.
Ali focusses on the role and position of women in Islam, including arranged marriage and FGM.
Ali argues passionately about the role of women in Islam and their need for liberation.
However to argue that the extremists and fundamentalists are the only face of Islam and that deep down all Muslims are like this I think goes too far.
I first saw Ayaan Hirsi Ali on Real Time with Bill Maher a year or two ago and quickly placed her book on my to-read list.
Especially when you consider that Hirsi Ali is such a controversial figure who lives her life with bodyguards under the threat of death to this day.It’s a fascinating story.
A young girl from a fundamentalist Muslim family in war-torn Somalia, Saudi Arabia, Ethiopia and Kenya who escapes as a refugee and eventually becomes an activist and member of Parliament in Holland.
Critics slam the book for painting a dark picture of Islam, but Hirsi Ali is writing about her life and experiences.
The situations that she faced in a closed society where women's rights are pretty much non-existent I felt somewhat tainted Her opinions and descriptions about Islam.....
They were quite biased and one sided and at most times I felt more resentment then honesty which is quite sad, she brought though some very good points about mutilation and the rights of women in such societies.
But got distracted with blaming the religion and not the people and their backword tribalistic traditions which are the cause for most of the suffering and violations of women's rights in these countries.
Were human rights, progress, women’s rights all foreign to Islam?By declaring our Prophet infallible and not permitting ourselves to question him, we Muslims had set up a static tyranny.
We froze the moral outlook of billions of people into the mind-set of the Arab desert in the seventh century.
This mind-set makes the transition to modernity very painful for all who practice Islam.We need to educate ourselves about the Muslim faith which is the faith of over half of the world's religious.
As with any religion or ideology, it’s how it’s practised that impacts on people’s lives and on society.Many of Hirsi Ali’s criticisms of Islam could be applied to fundamentalist Christianity: unwavering adherence to the Bible and the control of women’s sexuality.
It’s a rare academic, writer or thinker who is willing to take the risk of losing their career and/or income by doing an about-turn.So, perhaps it’s down to publishers to champion other writers with as much vigour as they do Hirsi Ali; to publish and promote the hell out of the work of Muslim feminists working on the ground in their local communities to educate and effect change; to bring the female activists such as those featured in Coleman’s book to international writers’ festivals and posh venues like the Sydney Opera House."
While I do not doubt the overwhelming number of women who suffer under the hands of abusive fathers, brothers, and husbands, I have not seen this as an endemic problem to the immigrants that I serve.
There is not a single interpretation.Additionally, dangerous practices that limit women's independence, freedom and self worth are not specific to Muslims.
It comes from agreeing on laws that protect women and bring them out of poverty, war, environmental disasters, and limited educations.
At the same time many of these organizations have done things to support women's education and rise from poverty.
when her Quran teacher fractured her skull, the doctor who treated her kept death at bay.In the second half of the book she flees to Amsterdam when she is married to a man her father has chosen who she does not want to marryShe takes the chance at freedom, a life in which she would be free from bondage to someone she had not chosen, and in which her mind, too, could be free.She states she first encountered the full strength of Islam as a young child in Saudi Arabia.
Theo Van Gogh and Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a Somalian refugee had recently produced a short documentary about the treatment of women in Islam.
The Islam that is practiced in Iran is definitely different to that in countries like Somalia, Saudi, and so on.
The average Iranian Muslim is nowhere near as extreme as these other countries.
… Wishful thinking about the peaceful tolerance of Islam cannot interpret away this reality: hands are still cut off, women still stoned and enslaved."“The Quran is a historical record, written by humans.
There were times when I, like many other Muslims, found it too complicated to deal with the whole issue of war against the unbelievers.
I would say that this book is not to be missed.Ayaan Hirsi Ali is a young woman who was reared in a strict Islamic family and country.
This is the story of her journey through loss, pain danger, growth, development and it's still going on.
I'm not going to say much about her journey as in the short space allotted a review I could never do justice to her story and might in fact inadvertently mislead.For those who wonder it seems to me that Ms. Ayaan Hirsi Ali may be what would be called an agnostic now.
It’s an amazing story, work of historical analysis, political philosophy, and dissection of Islam as viewed through the autobiography of a remarkable woman (Ayaan Hirsi Ali/Magan) who will not fail to point out that among Muslim women, she is singularly fortunate.
We could hold our dogmas up to the light, scrutinize them, and then infuse traditions that are rigid and inhumane with the values of progress and modernity….For me to think this way, of course, I had to make the leap to believing that the Quran was relative – not the literal syllables pronounced by God, but just another book.However, this desire to soften the Quran into a more egalitarian stance, to be a “Muslim Voltaire” and push for compassion and empathy based on common humanity rather than inward-facing misogynist xenophobia arises from observing that the tendency for asocial exclusion is not limited to any particular culture or group.
Her criticism of Islam and of sociocultural practice in Islamic countries is for the most part measured and reasonable, though only her most extreme utterances get airtime.
She clearly states that female genital mutilation (FGM) is not an Islamic practice but a north African cultural one.
The extreme patriarchy, honour killings etc.
she criticises are similarly not Islamic per se, though they are often justified and perpetuated in the name of Islam.
Cultural relativism cannot be used to excuse or ignore practices such as FGM, forced marriage, spousal abuse and rape and honour killings.
مشكلى كه من با اين نويسنده و سم هريس دارم اينه كه اينها بيشتر ضد اسلام هستند تا ايتيست.
من اين دو نفر را در بحثهاشون با رضا اصلان شناختم و دوست داشتم با ديدگاهشون بيشتر آشنا بشم ولى به نظرم يك ايتيست هم ميتونه مثل طالبان تندرو باشه.
ايتيست هاى زيادى هستند در دنيا كه بسيار متعادل ومنصفانه برخورد ميكنند ولى اين دو نويسنده را نميتونم آدمهاى معتدلي بدونم.
آيان هيرسى على ميگه ايتيسته ولى از هيچ مذهبى به اندازه اسلام بد نميگه.
خلاصه به هر اعتقاد افراطى و بدون انصاف و تعادل نميتونم اعتماد كنم.
This book is the spiritual and intellectual odyssey of a very remarkable and courageous woman.
Ali was born in Somali and raised in a Muslim family.
While there she became an interpreter for the government and an advocate for the rights of Muslim immigrant women.
She had to flee the Netherlands for her life and today works in the US for the American Enterprise Insitute, but still must live with armed guards for protection.A proponent of the Western ideals of the worth and rights of individuals, Ali is a courageous and outspoken advocate of the cause of freedom and women's rights.
Her story of life, with it's many twists and turns, in various African and Middle Eastern countries as a child and a teenager is fascinating, and very revealing when it comes to the culture of Islam; especially in relation to free thought and the treatment of women.
Only then can fundamentalist beliefs which incite violence and hatred, intellectually and physically enslave women, and elevate ignorance to a virtue, be eradicated.There are many bigots in our countries, there is no doubt of that, but there are real concerns about Islam in the West that are not bigoted by any stretch of the (rational) imagination.
Ayaan writes beautifully and I admire her for her courage to leave a terrible situation and start fresh in a new country and culture, master yet another new language, and become a politician.
That is why i gave it four stars.
for her description of Islam, i would give her zero stars.
Non-muslim and western people who read this book should understand that she does not truly understand Islam and that her perception of Islam is in no way representative.
If you must read this book, do not confuse Somali tribal culture with Islam.
Asking "why" prompts kicks and thrashings so both males and females learn not to ask questions and grow into adults with a very narrow world view.Hirsi Ali then shows how the coping skills (submission, acceptance of fate, superstition, prayer, loyalty to the clan) used to get through childhood don't work in the modern world.
When things go wrong, violence is the only known answer for the males.In the later chapters on what is needed for change, Hirsi Ali is hardest on liberals and feminists.
She feels that they accept the abusive treatment of women as a cultural phenomenon.
