https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1027760.Madeline_and_the_Bad_Hat
Pepito the son of the Spanish ambassador moves in next door to Madeline's house. He catches animals, catapults bending girls and eventually catches a cat with the purpose of letting it loose with some dogs. Because of his cruelty he is injured and has time to reflect in hospital. Wise Miss Clavel realises Pepito was unkind because he was lonely and bored. A repentant Pepito vows to release his trapped wild animals and becomes a vegetarian.As always lovely illustrations, funny rhyming and kind messages.
More like he's wearing bad hat. There are so many awesomely disturbing things about this book. Home-made guillotines, old-fashioned usage of the word "molest", torturing animals, dog-fighting, shooting little girls in the butt with slingshots. Children's books are awesome.
A little dated. There's some casual violence against animals, and like a lot of old books, language that simply isn't acceptable today. But there's a good heart to the story, and it's a good lesson overall that some "bad" kids might just be looking for acceptance.
“Madeline and the Bad Hat” is another book created by Ludwig Bemelmans’ famous “Madeline” collection (and was also transformed into an episode for the “Madeline” cartoon series) that details Madeline’s adventures in France.
Ludwig Bemelmans does an excellent job on both illustrations and writing Madeline’s newest adventure.
Ludwig Bemelmans chooses his words carefully to make sure that the story moves along smoothly without making the rhyming text sound like nonsense.
Parents should know that there are some violent and sad scenes in this book.
3.5 stars
Definitely the weakest, of the three Madeline books I've read thus far.
You may think that Madeline is humble and is worried about Pepito but clearly you have never met a child who holds a grudge to someone who performs awful violence and cruelty to others.
He feels bad about the whole experience and decides to change his ways and becomes the good boy that everyone loves.I just realized now that my review portrays Pepito like a demented child but I realize children sometimes do not know any better and cause harm to others.
Plus I believe when someone feels genuine pain and suffering they are less likely to harm other living beings especially animals.
2009: This might be my favorite of the Madeline books now. It is so cute; I love reading about all the trouble that Pepito gets into.
My hardcover book was published in 1956!
I really liked the thoroughly bad hat, Pepito. The wonderful thing about children's books is that bad characters can be redeemed, plausibly.
Man...I shoulda been reading Madeline books as a kid. Bad Ass, more like it.
Pepito gets savaged by the dogs, requires rescue, and appears to learn a lesson with help from a tut-tut-ing Madeline.
What does Pepito do with the lesson?
But then he goes too far when he releases all the zoo animals up to the point of freeing the lions.
Madeline, ever the wee heroine, says just the right thing to keep Pepito from unwittingly allowing lions to kill the very animals he had sworn to love.
Don't kill animals?
Siggy just thinks the colors are pretty and says "woof woof" or "quack quack" every time a dog or bird enters the story.
I'm loving these Madeline books as much as Julia, if not more!
I feel like such a bad Mommy for waiting so long to read them.
(I'm going on about my feelings and not Julia's.) :-DJulia really likes them all as well and this is one of the few characters she wants to keep coming back to.
We read so many books together and most of them always introduce new characters.
But Julia keeps asking me to find more Madeline books so I know these are sticking with her long after we close the latest book.
I do not remember this story from my childhood, but I read many of the books in the Madeline series, so it's likely that it's a reread. We got this book as part of a kit from our local library, with an audio CD narrated by Linda Terheyden and we enjoyed following along with the book. It's a fun story, but with some of the odd language and disturbing events, I'm not so sure that it stands the test of time quite as well as the original story.
I'd only read the first book in this series before today and was left a bit...flummoxed by this one. I'm giving it 4 stars because some of this is delightful - read in context of the time it's written, I find it hilarious that he shoots his slingshot at the girls as they exercise (does that make me a bad person) and the guillotine...good grief! But really the story does pull me in and was fun to read just to see where it went next.
In my opinion this is one of the better Madeline stories, along with the original Madeline. This book introduces us to Pepito, the son of the Spanish Amabassador, who is the "bad hat" of the story. I like that this story has a nice moral message to it, and of course I like the classic rhyming nature of all these Madeline stories.
A little boy who plays with guillotines for fun gets reformed into a nice kid.
This one is somewhat stereotypical with the little boy acting out and the girls being tame and timid. Kindness to animals is admired. Introduces the idea of an ambassador.
I really love all the Madeline books. Just consistently brilliant.
I liked Madeline's Rescue so much I decided to get a few more and this book was also well-done.
In this book Madeline meets Pepito, the Spanish Ambassador's son, and he's a wild child who bags up a cat and lets it out in front of a pack of dogs for fun.
The cat climbs on Pepito's head injuring him.
And when Madeline and the girls go visit, Madeline calls Pepito a horrid brat and says they will all keep their eyes on him.
Pepito turns over a new leaf he becomes a vegetarian and loves animals and all the girls loved him in the end.
My boy has to read a book a day for school, he brought home a Madeline book from the library so we could read together. I was over joyed, I’ve loved Madeline books since I was a kid, and I haven’t read one in so long. Reading about Madeline’s next door neighbor, Pepito, and his bad misguided ways brought back joyous memories for me. The story is humorous, the rhymes are on point, the illustrations delightful, and as always a lesson is learned in a witty way. An incredibly joyous read for all ages.
When the Spanish Ambassador's family moves in next door to the old house in Paris covered in vines, the twelve little girls are pleased to learn he has a son, that is until they realize he's a bad hat.
Will Pepito ever learn to be a good little boy?
He will if Madeline has anything to say about it.This is another Madeline book I remember very well from my youth, and the kids like it too, though the story seems a bit stranger than I remember.
I guess Pepito learns his lesson??
Anyway, a Madeline book is always a great read.
May 2017 - definitely weirder than the original Madeline, and in a way that's both fantastically strange and also macabre. Lots of things that I didn't even try to explain to Ben, but I could sense that his brain was whirring trying to figure things out. Given his current fear of dogs, I didn't even try to explain what happened to Pepito.
I surprised myself with how vividly I remember this book from my childhood. The verse is simple and suitable for reading aloud to babies. I'm still not really sure what "bad hat" means, but I guess this does have a good lesson for children: don't guillotine animals, or dogs will bite you.
Forgot how much I loved this one! My favorite of the Madeline stories. You may not like the rhyming in the other Madeline books, but in this one he gets it just right. And they are hilarious.
- Pero sus amigos lo llaman Pepito.-¿Qué amigos?vegetarian!pepito, i love it
This one doesn’t hold up as well.
Did not like this one as much as the first Madeline book.
The best part is sharing this with my daughter.
Cute. :)
