https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31357.Prentice_Alvin
Question: How is reading a sequel to a book you loved similar to a restroom visit after “Spicy Night” at the Taco Emporium?Answer:...Both require you to manage your expectations and BE PREPARED. Well, stupid toss-pot that I am, I broke the cardinal rule of sequels and went hopscotching headlong into this book with my mental gas mask safely stowed up on the top shelf behind the untouched can of “use your brain” spray. And it happened......I got a stinging, gut-twisting case of "the sequels"...for
Question: How is reading a sequel to a book you loved similar to a restroom visit after “Spicy Night” at the Taco Emporium?Answer:...Both require you to manage your expectations and BE PREPARED.
So after really enjoying the first two books in the Alvin Maker series, Seventh Son and Red Prophet, my romance with this series has come to an abrupt and, as mentioned above, painful end.
As for the plot itself, I will assume you know the "alternate 19th Century America" background and basic premise of the series if you are up to book 3.
Cross Pilgrim’s Progress with the Belgariad, add in a dash of chemistry, alchemy, and magic, and you get this weird combination of the chosen one quest tale and religious allegory.Alvin is definitely a “chosen one” with characteristics of Jesus and Joseph Smith both.
His quest is to become a Maker, kind of an apprentice creator to God. Like the protagonists in most quest tales, he must learn to control himself as well as to control his talent.
Both of these volumes leave me wondering what exactly Card is trying to accomplish in this regard—whatever it is, I didn’t get it.Book 255 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy reading project.
As the above description indicates, this installment of the series finds Alvin at a transitional stage of his life, learning how (and how not) to use his unique powers as a Maker, in the service of the vision of the Crystal City which Tenskwa-Tawa, the Prophet, showed him as a child.
Card is not marking time here; both Alvin and Peggy's growth experiences are profound and significant.
I like the fact that the battle with the Unmaker isn't primarily a physical duel of contending powers, but a moral struggle that Alvin has to wage inside himself.
I found this to be the case with the Ender saga, which had two superb initial installments before a third novel that signalled a slow but eventual decline in quality.As I read the Alvin Maker saga, I am worried the same thing may be happenening here.
Along the way, we get some darker moments to the saga, such as Alvin's battle with the UnMaker over the digging of a well and a lot of time spent discussing the evils of slavery.
Maybe this book is setting up a lot of things for pay-off in future novels.
This book feels more developed than the previous two, more thorough, more thought through and better paced.
Having read that introduction, and this novel, the previous two books start to feel a bit like a really long prequel.
But, a prequel that Card really wants you to read in order to get this book.Alvin finally gets to the apprenticeship, that his father agreed before book two got in the way, as well as developing and coming to terms with his powers, in this continuing alternate history frontier land fantasy series.
After the excitement in the last book, Red Prophet, when Alvin and his family experienced the Battle of Tippecanoe, Alvin is finally off to Hatrack River, where he was born, to begin his apprenticeship to Makepeace Smith, the blacksmith.
(But not enough social graces to inspire her to write to her worried parents or to reveal herself to them when she comes back to Hatrack River disguised as a teacher.)Just before Peggy leaves Hatrack River, she helps a black slave girl who has used some evil magic to escape from the master who was raping her.
This book is another good step along the story arc, but what keeps me from rating it higher is the author's version of philosophy that permeates the series and pulls me away from the story.
This may be what is done in most books, but it feels far from reality, yet presented as truth.
In my mind it it dishonors the events to mirror them in this fantasy world with the author's mingled philosophy.Yet, what keeps me reading the series is the author's amazing gift of creating characters that seem to live in my mind and compel me to know them more.
I enjoyed the story, but once again Card relies too much on coincidence. Characters just happen to do what they need to for the story to work, though it doesn't make sense -- for example, Alvin and Miss Larner falling in love. He just didn't convince me of that one. And he saves himself the trouble of explaining how Alvin came to trust in Miss Larner above anyone else by simply leaving that part out. None of that stops me from finishing out the series, though. I'm dying to see how it all turns out.
I'm really enjoying this series and am still wondering how I never got to these sooner. Prentice Alvin is as riveting and interesting as the first two books and the characters continue to be interesting and the story enlightening. I'm eager to get the next book!
I really liked the first two Alvin Maker books, even though from the beginning there were some niggling things that were bothering me.
Things seem to have split off from our Timeline at least by the time of the English Civil War. There's a Lord Protector in 1800--but also a (much truncated) United States, without slavery and with Native Americans who are full citizens.
He's a wonderful storyteller.Still, despite the sympathy for the Native American plight in Red Prophet there was much in Card's vision of America that grated at me.
And then, there's some atrocious pieces, like the last two of the Ender series, or Songmaster.
Or the fact that the whole Alvin Maker series reminds you of how the author is Mormon.
That's another thing - I'm not particularly attached to or smitten by any character, but OSC has managed to make me very fond of them, which is more than what most authors have done to me.In short, it was an enjoyable and fast read, and I still intend to follow through with what Alvin and his idiotic foes are up to in the next 3 books.
But these were my thoughts on the book before I knew how horrible a man the author was:Alvin has begun his "prenticeship" and though he comes to Hattrack river mostly to speak to the girl, Peggy, who, as a torch, had the ability to show him his futures and is likely the only person who can help him figure out how to be a real Maker, she flees before he even arrives.This is a split story for most of the duration, flickering from Alvin on one side, to Peggy on the other, and converging near the end.
The series continues with solid levels of quality: Alvin has begun his "prenticeship" and though he comes to Hattrack river mostly to speak to the girl, Peggy, who, as a torch, had the ability to show him his futures and is likely the only person who can help him figure out how to be a real Maker, she flees before he even arrives.This is a split story for most of the duration, flickering from Alvin on one side, to Peggy on the other, and converging near the end.
I love the alternate history of North America which Card has constructed as the backstory for this series.
For the most part Card leaves the reader to figure out who's kidding whom.There's a love angle which, while central to the books, is totally out of the blue.
Yet--yet our hero falls in love at the first opportunity without any clue to the reader why.I'm also getting a bad feeling about this sought for Crystal City and who or what a Maker is.
Is this how it feels to read L.
I think I really appreciate Card's work as a break from Stephen King's Dark Tower.
It's epic and rich and a very American fantasy with violence and evil people and forces in it but still lighter than King.
I also appreciate that Card shows scorn for religious hypocrites without dismissing entire religions like Mists of Avalon seemed to when I read it recently or some sci-fi can seem to.
I feel like I can count on him as a writer to champion loving, protective people, people who are creative, who are Makers like Alvin, and to eventually give comeuppance to hypocrites, bigots, selfish and destructive people...Unmakers like the ever-lurking main faceless villian in this series.
I would probably give this book a 3.5 stars, but it wouldn't let me, so it only gets three.
If you can get through the first 2 books, book 3 is where it starts to get really good.
I wouldn't say that it's "can't put the book down" good (at least not until the very end), but still interesting.
The characters are well developed, which is probably why books 1 & 2 seem so boring because those are the books in which the development takes place, and the story well told.
Warning: This book is not for young readers.
I think Mr Card has an amazing talent for exploring characters and offering insight into human struggles.
This particular book gets a little racy compared to the first two but certainly extremely tasteful and poignant in the choices of when to use such scenes to keep them useful but not irksome.
I loved the book.
His storytelling powers are awe-inspiring.
His fantastical creation is delicious.
His alternate history relieves the pressure actual history books out on me to figure out if I trust an author's perspective.
he gives voice to many issues noteworthy for examination about slavery and about honesty and about intentions.
This book - nay, this whole series - from the cover to the writing, made me think the title should have been "The Blacksmith's Arms" and pictured Fabio on the front of it. The fantasy aspect of it was interesting and actually kept you engaged, but the description of Alvin's physique and his romance with whats-'er-face made me think this was co-written with Nicholas Sparks. I didn't read the last book in the series, and I don't know if I will.
Alvin is finally starting to understand what it means to be a Maker. A lot more drama going on than on the other books, but a lot more adventure too. I am curious about the possibilities of Alvin's future here, and of Alvin's love. I simply adore Arthur Stuart. He's so sweet and loveable :)
I almost didn't get past the first chapter of this book but it did get better. If it wasn't part of a series, I wouldn't have bothered, but I'm still intrigued by Card's use of symbolism and LDS references in trying to create an American mythology.
I just couldn't face another one. The religious parallels got just to sickeningly blatant.
We learn more about the town where Alvin was born, which we haven't seen in a while, including Peggy--the torch who has been keeping an eye on him this entire time.
On the other hand, it doesn't feel like the story went anywhere.
I thought the entire point was that water was the element of the Unmaker and would try to kill him at any opportunity?
Here, in alternate history hundreds of years ago, it just doesn't feel like it fits.
I think I'll go ahead and continue with Alvin Journeyman, although at this point I'm no longer entirely sure why...
But something clicked, and the story, the drama, the magic system all started coming together.I won't spoil the plot too much, except to say that it's very heavy.
In comparison to those two, the actual story of Alvin's apprenticeship was pretty bland-- for most of the way, at least.
This is some ways a hard book to read, but it's also a big achievement and a tale that fans of Card (or fantasy / sci-fi / speculative fiction in general) won't want to miss, even though it takes a bit of patience going through the first two Alvin Maker books.
I have never dreamed of cities made of crystal. But once you start constructing things out of atoms, well, that is just what one is ought to do.----------------hard not to love a body who loves you so powerful, who hangs onto you like clouds hanging onto the moon----------------You can be sorry, and you can be forgiven, but you can't call back the futures that your bad decisions lost.----------------“But there's only one way I can think of, offhand.”“Brother Cavil, I'm not sure if I can take upo
But once you start constructing things out of atoms, well, that is just what one is ought to do.----------------hard not to love a body who loves you so powerful, who hangs onto you like clouds hanging onto the moon----------------You can be sorry, and you can be forgiven, but you can't call back the futures that your bad decisions lost.----------------“But there's only one way I can think of, offhand.” “Brother Cavil, I'm not sure if I can take upon myself that loathsome duty.” “In my experience, the Lord strengthens a man, and makes it bearable.” “But in my case, Brother Cavil– you see, I've never known a woman, as the Bible speaks of it.
I'll keep reading the series, but boyo, I've got some bones to pick with this volume.
Including:1.
When a black character is a non-native english speaker, DO NOT WRITE THEIR INNER MONOLOGUE IN STEREOTYPED BROKEN ENGLISH.
Jesus christ.
We meet an African princess-turned-runaway slave, and she is barely fluent in her own thoughts.
Goddamn.2.
Mormons writing about physical attraction as a component of love – predictably goofy.
"He saw her, he shivered, he imagined her face, he imagined being her devoted husband" or whatever.3.
Not super-interested in Card's depiction of slavery & its horrors.
Almost everything we see of slavery is through white eyes.4.
It had good pacing, and interesting story, and great characterization for Peggy, the character from the first book whom we really haven't seen since.
Peggy's story is woven eloquently into this process.The only thing that keeps it from a 5-star rating is the mischaracterizations and plot holes in the last quarter of the book.
Why couldn't Alvin change the cachet's makeup?
Couldn't he have made it of living iron?
These two things add unnecessary plot complications that take an entire book (Alvin Journeyman) to clear up.
The plot holes, and the 4th book, do not, in my opinion, need to exist.
Another enjoyable entry in the Alvin Maker series. This one moved forward at a more satisfying pace than the previous two (or at least it felt like it) but I still was a little annoyed at the broken language writing style depending on who was the subject of the chapter. The Ender and Shadow series are more thought-provoking and have more character depth. But this series is still a nice diversion "in the past" rather than the future.
I'd really give this book more of a 3.5 stars. It's book 3 in a series and although the material in this book was much darker, I feel like the story is finally hitting its stride and moving along. I enjoy the way Card ties the themes of prejudice, racism and religious persecution from the early history of the US into a magical fantasy context. It's different and creative and unexpected. Might be too weird for some but it's what I've come to expect from OSC.
Prentice Alvin was a wonderful reprieve from the catastrophes of Red Prophet. The story of Alvin continues to pull me in, this time we got to celebrate his successes and growth while watching the wicked grow more wicked, though, fortunately, everyone had reasons for their actions and was reasonable in their own minds. I couldn't get through this book fast enough, I'm loving this yarn.
I have enjoyed this series more with every book and this one is a favorite. Card is a pure story teller and this series is all about the story and characters. I am more pulled in now than I was before.
