https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7022939-how-to-do-nothing-with-nobody-all-alone-by-yourself
i don't think kids nowadays care to read books to begin with let alone try to make these things!
Try to take their Iphones away and replace it with a book *Don't blame me if your kid tries to set your blanket on fire in your sleep* i genuinely worry about kids who spend more time alone because spending so much time on your own growing up is both a blessing and a curse..
they would enjoy the quiet peace of mind for a while but also it'll be hard for them to socialize with people which means the kid will grow to be a social outcast!
I think that just plain going to the library and getting out a book is a swell thing to do.
Now I'm going to tell you about another thing we made, a kind of dart, and it's my guess that when your mother or father sees it, you may catch a little hell; I don't know.
Then whatever has been done is possible, and there's a new thing that's impossible.[…] the name of this books is How to Do Nothing with Nobody All Alone by Yourself.
I do a little worrying about that, but I worry about something else even more; about kids who don't know how to spend any time all alone, by themselves.
As I wrote on Beatrice: "David Mamet was born in 1947. He was eleven years old when Robert Paul Smith’s How to Do Nothing with Nobody All Alone by Yourself was published in 1958. I’m not able to get in touch with Mamet to ask him if he read this book, but I am willing to bet folding money that he did, then or shortly after."How can you not love a kid's book roughly ten percent of which is dedicated to all the intricate levels of mumbly-peg?
hilarious! Do not read while drinking!
Happy happy joy joy! This is one of the best books in the world and I was so glad to learn that it's back in print. I picked up my copy and it is just as wonderful as I remembered. I'm also surprised to see how much of this stuff I actually learned and did and made when I was about eight years old and reading it for the first time.
I was given this book as a kid and it provided me hours of enjoyment.
The book wasn't translated to audiobook very well. There were a lot of illustrations in the book but there was only a reference to them (for example "see illustration 1e").This is why the rating is this low. If I read the physical copy I would probably rate it as a 3 stars. A nice book to read while waiting in line, nothing more.
Here are some things you can do following the instructions in this book: Make a spool tank (a homemade windup toy that creeps forward slowly like an army tank); a "button buzz-saw;" a handkerchief parachute; a harmless handkerchief "blackjack." Make a squeaky noise with two blades of grass.
Do cool things with dandelion stems and leaves.
Make a little basket out of burrs.
Put your name on a pencil.
Give a pencil a decorative checkerboard grip.
Play "killers" with horse chestnuts.
Make a "bavoom-thing," a peach-pit basket, a rubber-band-powered paddlewheel boat, a paper airplane, a paper helicopter, and a thing made from a wishbone that surprises people by jumping suddenly into the air.
If you still want to read this book after that author's warning, you are an awesome human being_ let alone with a bit of a magical touch of wild craziness, too.This is probably the kind of thing that my dad did when he was growing up wildly free from the horrific confinement of today's electronic social media; with no Facebook, Twitter or WhatsApp around the corner!
Isn't it nice to make a basket out of lapful of burrs?!If you want to relive the joy of your childhood and its carefree days, this is the book for you!
Originally published in 1958, this book is the ideal answer when you tell your kids to go play outside and they don't know what to do.
I wish I'd had this book when I was 7-12 years old.
I had plenty of apples to whip, had I known about whipping apples!
I had plenty of horse chestnuts to string.
I didn't know you could put maple tree helicopters on your nose like a rhino!
I like the pace and the informality of the writing.
This book makes me want to read his other titles.
I received this book for my birthday when I was a child. I found it a wonderfully imaginative book with marvelous illustrations by Elinor Goulding Smith. It was first published in 1958. It was an age before electronics and social media and the books describes how kids could entertain themselves with everyday objects.I managed to track down a copy which I have presented to my grand nephew to give him an idea how we used to entertain ourselves!
This book was pretty awesome. Right away I could tell that this book was for older kids, who can handle a pocket knife. However, the language of it was so old fashioned and comforting that my young children listened while I read it cover to cover over a series of bedtimes. Definitely will have to purchase this book when they're a little older.
Fascinating look into life for children in the 1920s. Great ideas for any time a child says to you, "I'm bored."http://newgrandmas.com/11249/newmemor...
This books' views are very outdated when it comes to some games, it might be inappropriate for children even. I realize it was written in the 50s but still, It's interesting fro what it were but I would not recommend it to any kid or parent, honestly.
How I wish I had found this book as a kid. It's full of all the dangerous projects that kids used to do by themselves using a penknife and whatever the heck they could find. A fast read that reminds me of my childhood.
A fun book of remembrances of my childhood.
Audiobook is probably the worst option for this book. Fortunately I recall reading the book in my childhood so I'm familiar with the various contraptions.
Eh, it was okay. I feel a bit cheated because some of the games that are described are not actually things to do by yourself. It's also a shame that this hasn't been revised in any way but instead features some outdated stuff. But oh well. I might try one or two things by myself sometime.
Outdated, but charming in concept.
Very instructive
Seriously, half the games in this book involve playing with knives.
My mom was apparently a big fan of playing mumbly peg when she was a kid, which today would be (quite rightly) banned from any school or home.
Add in a good dose of sexism (mom is always a worrywart overly-concerned about silly things...
like the above, while good old dad is the voice of reason at all times, throwing in a dash of wishing for the old days when mothers sewed more), a little bit of Native American stereotyping, and yeah, this book has some problems.
If you decide to purchase this book please keep in mind it was published back in 1958.
The purpose of the book is to find things that children can do all by themselves with no help or supervision.
The toys that Robert Paul Smith describe are made with materials most careful moms won't let their child look at, much less play with alone.
For example, the materials needed for the first toy are an empty spool of thread, a rubber band, 3 matches and a knife.
But the whole point of the book is for kids to make their own toys by themselves, and most toys in this book require supervision.
Το βιβλίο θα έπρεπε να λέγεται "Πως να καταστρέψεις τα ξαδέρφια σου, χαρίζοντας αυτό το βιβλίο στα παιδιά τους". (Μουαχαχαχαχα)Ξεκινάω να γράφω οδηγίες στα ελληνικά και το μοιράζω στα μικρά τώρα που γυρίζει!
I thought there would be more pictures, but it is cool that the ones in there are hand-drawn. And there are some fun things for kids to do. My son will have to do nothing with an adult until he is old enough to read on his own.
Wonderfully anachronistic in parts, but a great little treasure trove of things to try out, and things to teach your kids should you have any.
This is, quite possibly, THE greatest book I have ever read. I truly cannot recommend this highly enough! Everyone should read this book.
This book opens "[i:]f things were as they should be another kid would be telling you how to do these things..." Yep. Learn 'em from another kid. They're boring to read about.
