https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/606805.All_Passion_Spent
Eventually she pops off too and that's that.Good read, well-written, set in a time and by an author who could not imagine anything much outside her realm of extreme privilege and where poor was only being able to afford a tiny house in a very posh area with only one servant.
“She wondered which wounds went deeper: the jagged wounds of reality, or the profound invisible bruises of the imagination?” - Vita Sackville-West, All Passion SpentI loved this book, one of the best novels I’ve read so far this year.
I probably have very little in common with Lady Slane, being from a different ethnicity, era, and class; yet I was able to put myself in her shoes.
Modesty, moderation, consideration, nicety—no good; they don’t pay.” This was a good book to read on International Women’s Day. Because of its content, it made me dwell on what it must feel like for a woman having to sacrifice her dreams for a husband and motherhood.
As Lady Slane herself thinks many times throughout the story, no one ever asked her what she thought, or thought that she might have an entirely different self on the inside than the one she was obliged to present to the world.
I will say here that one of the things that might bother some people about the novel is its concentration on “rich, white lady problems: Vita herself brings that up when Lady Slane hears Genoux’s story, for the first time in the sixty years she’s been with the woman- she never asked!
Sackville-West wrote as a masculine woman which complimented her husband's feminine streak.
Lady Slane is surrounded by her children looking to divide up the estate and who will take charge of their eighty-eight-year-old mother.
Lady Slane meets with the landlord, Mr. Bucktrout, whose name she remembered the name from thirty years ago.
Part two consists mostly of Lady Slane's reflections of her life.
Part three brings closure to the book Lady Slane meets two people, one old and one new, who fill out her life story and the family's future.
For an eighty-year-old book ,many of the issues in the novel still exist today.
I was so taken with this book that I found it quite impossible to write a review on it.But all I can say is that it is wonderful and so evocative of the time.
Vita Sackville-West has always fascinated me.
Ever since I read The Letters of Vita Sackville-West to Virginia Woolf, I have been intrigued by her personality.
Plus Virginia Woolf's own Letters (comprising six volumes) cover her friendship with Vita Sackville-West.I went to her gardens in Sissinghurst, Kent many years ago.
There was one section in the gardens where all the flowers were white.
Introduction, by Joanna Lumley--All Passion Spent
I don't care if the elderly friend of her happy with his hobbyhorse son Kay remained in love with Deborah for decades because he saw her look pretty one damned time.
If she is going to be living for herself, as her own person at long last, why is it so damned important what the three old men she rekindles acquaintences with think of her?
No, I just don't like books that talk, talk, talk and don't ask any of the good questions anyway and they never trust you to know the secret selves at all.
In un pomeriggio di pioggia nordica, ho deciso di leggere una pagina in più e questo è diventato il migliore romanzo che ho letto, e leggerò, nel 2011.
Ma i concetti che vi si esprimono, e la delicatezza con cui sono declinati, portano a mio avviso il marchio di una modernità assoluta e incontestabile, oggi più che mai.
Una grandissima lettura.PS - Vi è, certamente, tutto un discorso sociale da intavolare sul romanzo e sull'autrice; sul circolo di Bloosmsbury e l'amicizia con V.Woolf; sulla condizione sociale delle donne nel primo trentennio del '900; sul ritmo di una narrazione che potrebbe non essere recepito, oggi, e su tanti altri aspetti meno emotivi, più tecnici.
Non gli era mai passato per un istante nel cervello che lei potesse preferire essere semplicemente se stessa.Una parte in lei si era sottomessa.Ma la sorte attende beffarda di smascherare Lady Slane negli ultimi giorni della sua esistenza, che aveva pensato di difendere dalla mondanità, dalla avidità dei figli, e dalla energia faticosa della gioventù di nipoti e pronipoti, ritirandosi in campagna lontano da tutti.
Ora siete in collera con me?No -disse Lady Slane- mi sembra di sentirmi piuttosto sollevata, ora che sono stata scoperta”Victoria Sackville West, amica-amante di Virginia Woolf: bella la sua riflessione sul ruolo delle donne nella società, la loro libertà, i fili invisibili ma tenaci degli obblighi, e del controllo che riescono a esercitare sulle scelte della loro vita.Parla poco di vecchiaia, come invece potrebbe sembrare.
Si può pensare ad una storia ricca di eventi: la protagonista era stata vice-regina delle Indie, invece gran parte del libro è dedicato ai piccoli piaceri della vita quotidiana ai quali la donna decide di dedicarsi alla morte dell'importante marito.
Ora, ad ottantotto anni ogni passione è spenta, ma con serenità, senza rimpianti dolorosi, perché il suo amore per l'arte, nonostante tutto, ha vivificato ogni singolo giorno della sua vita anche se non è diventata una pittrice.
Il finale lascia un po' perplessi, è un po' lasciato lì, senza cure, ma alla fine tutto il libro ( sia lo stile, sia la prosa in sé) è in perfetta sintonia con la voce della protagonista e con la sua storia.
It’s a story of aging and the meaning of life.
Some lines in this were gorgeous, combining subtle meaning with the beauty of a landscape painting.“Something had knocked against her as the clapper might knock against a cracked old bell in a disused steeple.
No music travelled out over the valleys, but within the steeple itself a tingling vibration arose, disturbing the starlings in their nests and causing the cobwebs to quiver.”I enjoyed the truths about the artistic nature and I liked the way the character of Lady Slane deals with regret—the focus is on her awareness, not on blame or depression.And I found it especially comforting that we never really stop discovering things.
Fair Spouse says I am not allowed to while away any more time writing reviews on Goodreads until I tell you about this wise, gentle, funny feminist classic written in 1931 by Vita Sackville-West.
Hiller reads like she's singing an aria.Born in the 1860s, Deborah Slane spent most of her life in the company of the upper classes.
In many ways it's a perfect book, often dismissed as a minor novel compared with, say, To The Lightouse by Virginia Woolf.
Sackville-West's feminism in All Passion Spent is clearer than anything comparable by Woolf.
I feel this more strongly every time I re-read this re-readable book.
After her husband's death, Lady Slane escapes from her controlling children to end her days with her faithful servant Genoux in a rented house in Hampstead.
Her children seem only concerned with what other people will think and what is the 'done thing'.
Lady Slane wanted to be an artist, this idea was abandoned upon marriage, I was sad that her new found freedom didn't enable her to find an outlet for her artistic expression but it did end with a hint that not all her family would conform to the requirements of their class.
What happened to her after Lady Slane died ?
Genoux is surely the one to feel her death the most.
I kept thinking, "Yes, I see your point, but I can't quite relate to it." It seems to me, there are worse things than a wealthy husband!I don't normally do a synopsis, but here's the essence of the story: Her lead character Deborah is passively led into a marriage she doesn't want.
Though described as a devoted wife and mother, Deborah doesn't appear to mourn her husband's passing (at the opening of the story) or to feel any affection for her children, her home, or any other tangible aspect of her life.
This theme echoes throughout the lives of all the book's characters, regardless of actual gender.
This is such a beautiful book. The emotions and feelings within it are so real. The story is wonderful. I'm so glad my mom recommended it to me, but I'm sorry it took me so long to finally read. I wish I could read this for the first time again.
La sombra de Virginia Woolf es alargada, su influencia en Vita es notable pero esto no quita ni un ápice al talento narrativo de esta mujer lúcida, nítida y profunda que construye una novela sobre la vida, el amor y la construcción de la identidad propia con una marcada huella feminista.
A través de una voz narrativa que va cambiando con gran fluidez de unos personajes a otros, Vita nos presenta a cada uno de los personajes, algunos ruines, otros compasivos, pero por encima de todos destaca la propia viuda y Genoux, una mujer que vivió su vida a través de Lady Slane.
4.5 ★★★★ «En síntesis, Deborah, a la edad de diecisiete años, había decidido convertirse en pintora» Reseña en español | Review in English (below)”Henry Lyulph Holland, primer conde de Slane, llevaba existiendo tanto tiempo que el público había empezado a considerarle inmortal (…)” así empieza esta obra maestra con la que he descubierto, finalmente, la prosa de Vita Sackville-West. Mi pequeña obsesión con Vita se remonta a abril del año pasado (2017), cuando conocí su historia de amor con Virgin
Desde entonces llevaba queriendo leer alguna de sus novelas –he leído algunos poemas sueltos en inglés gracias a la todopoderosa Internet–, y conseguí esta edición española de segunda mano cuando ya había dejado de buscar algunas ediciones en inglés.Es, como dice la propia Vita en la dedicatoria, una historia de personas mayores donde los temas principales sobre el paso del tiempo, la muerte, los deseos no cumplidos, quedan patentes a través no solamente de la protagonista de la historia, Lady Slane, una dama inglesa de más de ochenta años que acaba de perder a su marido, sino también del resto de los personajes: los seis hijos del matrimonio (especialmente Edith y Kay), la doncella francesa Genoux, el casero Mister Bucktrout, el excéntrico coleccionista y millonario Mister FitzGeorge…Toda la novela se desarrolla a través de la primera persona de esos diferentes personajes y tiene, como argumento principal, que Lady Slane quiere pasar sus últimos días como a ella le plazca, es decir, vivir al fin su vida.
The reader will need to know the “why” of the blogger’s reading experience.So, why “wonderful”.The book tells the fictional story of an elderly woman, of eighty eight years, set in London in around 1930.
She did her duty.Her experience followed the path of a famous saying: “I dreamed I dreamt that life was beauty.
When duty was done, the main character, Lady Slane was able to say “enough is enough” and proceeded to remove herself from her dutiful life and set herself up in an apartment in Hampstead to reflect and to enjoy “quiet”.
The author, Vita Sackville-West wrote this in the early 20th century, her writing displays a deep understanding of how an intelligent woman thinks and dreams.
I found this to be a thoughtful novel about a woman who finally gets to live as she pleases following the death of her husband upsetting the plans of her pompous and calculating children.The middle part of the book focuses on her contemplation of the past; her life always in the background as the wife of a prominent and charming politician.
Some of the most charming scenes in the book are the conversations between her French maid of 60 years and the estate agent/owner of her retirement home as she lives out her days thumbing her nose at convention.
Lady Slane non disdegnava i gigli di campo, signor Gosheron. Eleganza.Fragilità. Rimpianto? E passività. (O contemplazione? Il turbinare delle farfalle)Lady Slane mi ricorda madame Adelaide degli Aristogatti.Deborah.Buona delicata bellissima. Pura.Qualcosa di intenso, aspro, crudele, quasi. Una specie di pietra dell'onestà.
Published in 1931, a unique story of a lady and her independence, which is cultivated at a very unlikely time in her life. She empowers her life by choosing to retreat from public life to her own quiet chosen place in Hampstead and fosters her own priorities and her own friendships. A story so simple it is almost a parable, created by the admirable Vita Sackville-West
It’s a quiet, beautifully told vignette of a woman’s last year of life. She had dreamt of being a painter, and retains an artist’s eye, but subsumed hers. I was disappointed with the outcome, I wanted this woman to pick up her brushes and create something, or at least accept the love an old flame had given her.
...a faccia a faccia con la vita Sapevo, grazie ad aNobii, di dover considerare le prime pagine semplicemente di introduzione senza farmi scoraggiare; ma… avevo superato abbondantemente la fatidica pag.45 senza tuttavia riuscire ad entrare nella storia… anzi, mi crescevano strane sensazioni alternanti: rabbia nei confronti di Lady Slane per la sua decisione troppo improvvisa quanto imprevedibile e tardiva; incomprensione per la scelta dell’Autrice di ‘datare’ la sua protagonista a un’età così t
Sapevo, grazie ad aNobii, di dover considerare le prime pagine semplicemente di introduzione senza farmi scoraggiare; ma… avevo superato abbondantemente la fatidica pag.45 senza tuttavia riuscire ad entrare nella storia… anzi, mi crescevano strane sensazioni alternanti: rabbia nei confronti di Lady Slane per la sua decisione troppo improvvisa quanto imprevedibile e tardiva; incomprensione per la scelta dell’Autrice di ‘datare’ la sua protagonista a un’età così troppo poco plausibile per tali cambiamenti drastici di vita; inquietudine per non trovarvi dunque, per i precedenti motivi, una possibile speranza e una probabile applicazione nel reale…; e me la prendevo, dentro di me, con il commento di ScaP che non riuscivo a condividere…Finché… sono arrivata al termine della prima parte e lì è avvenuta per me la svolta: improvvisamente ho capito e, da quel momento, è diventato tutto chiaro e perfetto.
What tired analogy can I use to describe the subtle sublimity with which this artist has communicated the grace and depth of spirit, the very character of Lady Slane?
It has elements of other books that have touched me – there is a sense of breaking free of emotional repression as in “The Enchanted April,” of rejuvenation of spirit as in “A Month in the Country,” of reflecting on the events of a long life as in “Gilead,” but the novel that kept coming to mind was “A Room with a View.” What if Lucy had married Cecil?
If only Lady Slane had spoken to Mr. Emerson how different her life would have been.
"Così in un batter d’occhio, si era trasformata dalla ragazza che era in un’altra, completamente diversa."Lady Slane ha speso tutta la sua vita a seguire il marito, Henry Holland viceré delle Indie e uomo politico influente nella Londra dei primi del novecento.
Ma ora, alla veneranda età di ottantotto anni, rimasta vedova, può finalmente liberarsi dalle convenzioni, dagli obblighi richiesti dall’etichetta, da ogni compromesso, anche nei confronti dei numerosi figli che l’hanno sempre considerata una donna fragile, bisognosa di sostegno, una donna “semplice” senza aspirazioni.
This was a great read - I bought it in a pack of 10 from Book People.
All good reads I would think.This is the story of an 88 year old woman who, when her husband dies, decides she can finally live her own life as she wants.
She has most affection for her son Kay.I didnt completely agree with the review that was written inside the book, unfortunately at the start so I read it first.
I hope people start buying it as I have been so disappointed by all the hyped up modern books that have come out and been recommended recently.
And liked it OK.
I'm only reviewing it now because it came up as a recommendation here on GR, and I get annoyed when it recommends books that I've read...
Haha.One thing that seems to have stuck with me about this book is that I was annoyed by the general feeling of everything being in the protagonist's past and she has no more real "oomph" left to put into things.
Maybe I like the idea of Vita Sackville-West better than I like books that I've read by her.
I probably liked Seducers in Ecuador and The Heir better.
The Lady Slane’s husband dies at the ripe age of 92, leaving her a widow with a small pension, six children (all over the age of 60), and innumerable grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
It’s a quiet, beautifully told vignette of a woman’s last year of life.
She had dreamt of being a painter, and retains an artist’s eye, but subsumed herself in her husband and children, as was expected of her, rather than buck convention.
It’s a tragedy, but society is not blamed so much as her own love for her late husband.

I watched the DVD with the divine Wendy Hiller and decided I needed to read the book again. What would Vita's life have been like if she could have inherited Knole? No books, no poems, no Sissinghurst? A home of one's own is so central to her work and it all comes from losing the one that meant the most to her. The subtext is always the real story with her.
