https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169959.The_King_s_Buccaneer

Δεύτερο μέρος αυτής της διαφορετικής διλογίας του Raymond E. Feist, ένα βιβλίο που μπορώ να το θεωρήσω ως τον καθρέφτη του πρώτου μέρους. Σε αυτό έχουμε ξανά μία ιστορία ενηλικίωσης, με φόντο μία περιπέτεια που οδηγεί τους ήρωές μας σε ένα εξωτικό μέρος, με περίεργα ήθη και έθιμα και ταραγμένη πολιτική κατάσταση. Υπάρχει φυσικά κάποια διαφοροποίηση σε πολλές λεπτομέρειες αλλά σε γενικές γραμμές το βιβλίο κινείται στα ίδια μονοπάτια με το προηγούμενο. Είναι φυσικά και αυτό ενδιαφέρον, με αρκετή δράση και ακόμα περισσότερο χιούμορ αλλά... ως εκεί.
To be honest, I found the first quarter or so before the raid a little slow – slow enough I even had a bit of a break at about a fifth in due to other blog reading, though I jumped back in with no problem – but once the raid happens and they set sail, I kept turning pages and I got pulled into the rescue story and following the characters on their quest.The King's Buccaneer has some lovely characters.
Sendo assim, Nicholas vê-se numa jornada pelo Mar Azul, rumo a um destino que desconhece mas que tem de enfrentar para seu bem e de todo o Reino de Midkemia, uma vez que as forças obscuras que assolaram Midkemia há uns anos atrás estão de volta e só um dos herdeiros da Luz do Ocidente pode por fim aos seus planos.O que me fez gostar mesmo mais deste livro é o facto de estar repleto de aventuras, de amadurecimento das personagens, de introspecção das mesmas sobre as suas ideias, atitudes e ambições e do reviver de acontecimentos, locais e personagens da saga de O Mago.
They go on a quest across the world to rescue the girls, and along the way Nicholas learns to assert himself.
As I said, pretty standard, but Nicholas is a well-drawn, likable character.
But there is a lot to like in this book, including several women in the book who manage to have personalities and not merely be objects for rescue or romantic interests (though they do fill those roles as well).As with the first series, I have liked the last two books, but still find myself doubting whether I want to continue.
It looks like there are three groups of books to choose from for a next step.
Considering that Feist wrote this book over 20 years ago, it was wonderful to see the character and plot devices.
The first (after now having read six Feist books), I am disappointed to see how he creates strong women characters, only to weaken or subvert them to minor roles, or poorly characterized actions by the end of each book.
He created another wonderful yarn, only to have it very quickly wrap up with only limited fanfare, killing off a few negligible characters, and halfheartedly tying up ends, as if he had run out of pages.That said, another wonderfully imaginative adventure, introducing Novindus to the reader for I'm sure plenty of books to come.
Taken alone, the plot is ok - although it sometimes feel like a teenage boy's kind of story, where the guys get to save the girls, and while the girls are the intelligent and strong kind, they still need boys to rescue them.
It starts off well, and in Feist's great style of character development.
Taken in the context of the Riftwar Saga, with incredibly powerful characters like Pug and Tomas, their absence felt very shabbily explained away, and the whole plot, from start to finish felt a little like a rehash of A Darkness at Sethanon - the overall events took the same path.
Well, I think that this book has been my favorite of the entire series so far!
Adventure on the high seas, intrigue in yet another foreign land...
Once again, through masterful plotting and lovable characters, Feist crafted an exciting read.
A wonderful addition to the series - and with more strong female characters like Brisa, which really rounded out and completed the story to a much stronger whole than many of his other books.
One of the fullest novels so far, I am very excited to continue on with the series that so far just keeps getting better and better!
The Kings Buccaneer, Raymond e Feists 5th book in the order was the second best book i've read so far. Nicholas, Arutha's last son adventures to crydree with his squire Harry. I found Nicolas's journey was better than both his brother's in the previous book. I found Nicholas as a young man in the beginning but as it goes through the book, he is just like his father. Good read and worth buying for the series.
I enjoyed this book more than it's predecessor, The Prince of the Blood, for several reasons: the characters were more likeable, the plot was less of a murder/mystery and more of a traditional fantasy/quest storyline, and it also picked up a storyline that Feist had been developing towards the end of The Riftwar Saga. Feist, however, still hasn't quite lived up to the first 8 books that were the Riftwar Saga and Legacy.
Dit verhaal leest als een proloog voor een veel groter verhaal, maar dan wel een zeer aangename proloog. Prins Valentijn als hoofdfiguur vind ik veel sympathieker dan zijn tweelingbroers in het vorige boek. Boekanier des Konings was een echte page-turner voor me en ik heb het Feist-virus nu eindelijk te pakken. Voor ik aan de Slangenoorlog begin duik ik eerst nog even terug in de tijd met de Keizerrijk Trilogie.
Another good Feist book! He can spin a great tale of fantasy adventure and I have yet to grow tried of the characters in this series' universe. If you were a fan of Amos Trask in the earlier novels, this is the book for you!
http://livros-lars.blogspot.pt/2012/1...
Mais uma fascinante aventura, cheia de ficção e carregada de imaginação. De ler e chorar por mais!
Immediately he takes control – in a rather unbelievable fashion, I might add, as if all of the sudden he gets +100 intellect and finally realises his education might come in handy some day – and sets of to sail to the Sunset Isles, home to all the cut-throat pirates on the entire planet, with the help of none other than former scare of all seas, Amos Task, Nicholas’ very own cousin Marcus, his best friend Harry, the funny and witty Isalani Nakor and the strong warrior Calis.
having read the riftwar Sagas, this audiobook has been a charming return to that scape
While at first glance it might have been a bit worrying that he was resurrecting some characters (Amos in particular) when it would have been reasonable to assume they'd either retired or shuffled off the Midkemian Coil altogether, they are good characters and they made a welcome addition to a fantasy adventure tale that was pretty decent for the most part.Sure, certain character types come to feel terribly familiar the more you read Feist; like the Ranjana for example.
It loses its way when they hit the Novindus desert, and the entire end of the book feels like it got away from Feist a bit, but the time in the Pirate Port and the attacks on the Far Coast cities are great.
Passaram-se diversos anos desde a jornada dos gémeos Borric e Erland, filhos do Príncipe Arutha, que marcou o primeiro livro de Os Filhos de Krondor, O Príncipe Herdeiro, trabalho que encaixa na Saga O Mago, e mais uma vez algo de grandioso se prepara para despontar…e assim iniciamos mais uma aventura em Midkemia!Desta vez cabe ao filho mais novo de Arutha, Nicholas, salvar o Reino!
Não só pelas melhorias na escrita do autor, mas pelo afeiçoamento a Nicholas (que não havia experimentado com nenhuma personagem dos livros anteriores) e também por todas as novas personagens que, com as suas personalidades, enriquecem a história!
In Amos Trask's ship, Prince Nicholas and Squire Harry set sail for a friendly visit to Uncle Martin in Crydee.
To learn more of the world outside the palace walls, Nicholas and his squire, Harry, set sail for pastoral Crydee, where Arutha grew up.
As Nicholas ventures further from the familiar landmarks of his home in pursuit of the invaders, he learns that there is more at stake than the fate of his friends, more even than fate of the Kingdom of the Isles, for behind the murderous pirates stands a force that threatens the entire world of Midkemia, and only he is destined to confront this terrifying threat.
Weer vol spanning en deze keer is Valentijn, de jongste zoon van de prins van Krondor de "held".Las hem weer een een ruk uit zullen we maar zeggen. Gelukkig heeft Raymond Feist nog meer boeken geschreven en staan ze ook nog bij mij op de plank te wachten totdat ze aan de beurt zijn.
My favorite round character would be Amos Trask, because he always is just a fast thinking person with many challenges, even though Nick is the main character.This book is about how Nick, the youngest of Arutha’s 3 sons, goes on an adventure to what is the 'end of the world to rescue the captured people of crydee and bring them back to the Kingdom of the Isles.
Captain Amos Trask, an old-time pirate and present day admiral in the king’s navy, got into port the next day; he reported the same for the small garrison they were creating down the coast.
I enjoyed this book much more than its predecessor - Nicholas is more likable and less of a spoiled brat as well as several of the girls in the story are actually not quite the prototypical airheads.
This is a straightforward quest novel and is quite adequate, but you still wonder why the bad guys feel the need to indulge in such a ludicrous plot device in the form of replacing people with plague carriers.
They would have been as well served in infiltrating and/or replacing royal servants.
Were they going to continue their pirate slaver raids until this chanced upon royal captives?
Overall, I really did enjoy this book.
This book tells the story of Arutha's youngest son, Prince Nicholas.
This is the 15th book I've read in the Riftwar Cycle and still am not sick of it.
I love how we get to move through generations, so that the characters are still new, yet familiar.
This is a great series and this book was a fantastic part of it.
I have loved Amos Trask from the time we first met him and was glad to see him have a decent sized part in this story.
Great read to be sure!
Alas, this is where I'm forced to end my reading of Feist, as I'm so bored that I'm refusing to finish the final quarter.Away from the 'strength' of the lore and settings we know and love, this story is hard.
There's a bunch of things in this book that don't make sense to me - when Nick took over captaincy, the relationships between characters...
Calis is your resident superhuman in place of Jimmy the Hand, and suddenly Nakor is the sort-of-ex-husband of Clovis.
What?I don't understand why other people seem to like this book.
Which isn't a bad thing, it's a great idea to shake things up a bit without abandoning your world and story.
I loved this book a lot more than the last one, where I found Borric and Erland annoying, I quite liked their brother Valentine.
What's really great is that book has a good pace, something Feist struggled with in the past in my opinion, this one I could not put down.
There isn't all that much good romance to be found, so that was a bit of a letdown for me but it doesn't hinder the story one bit.
A great book, highly recommended for any Feist fan!
For me this was the series that got me hooked on reading.
I had an English teacher in high school that would let us write 2 book reports per quarter which got you a C over all in the class.
So all I did for a year was read in class, write the reports and take the test blind.
Got an A ;-)I tore through this series and have been reading since.Feist is an amazing story teller and his world of Midkemia sets the stage for some really crazy and beloved characters.
Feist always creates interesting and enjoyable stories to read, even if they do follow a similar formula.
Much like the last book Prince of the Blood, one of Arutha's sons is tried and his worth as a prince is tested.
It was nice that Feist brought in a new world in this story, and he probably explores that in his later books.
However with this book I found it particularly hard to emotionally connect with any of the characters this book.
I also thought that Brisa was too much like Jimmy the Hand, and that Feist was reusing a character template.
The second book in the Krondor Sons series is another coming of age story, but unlike the first presents a likeable protagonist and increases the action.
If you enjoyed The Blood Prince you will likely appreciate this addition even more.Still it has its faults which prevent it being great.
Some characters are introduced at great length to then disappear, while others are either overly convenient or caricatures.
If you wish to read only one of the series start here, but if coming from the previous book definitely a must read.
This is by far the better of the two books in the Krondor's Sons series in my opinion.
This book focuses on Nicholas, the youngest son of Prince Arutha, who is a bit of an underdog in the family (of course) -- but who makes personal and heroic strives throughout the novel.
Readers are once again regaled with the laughter, sarcasm, and adventure attitude of Amos Task.
Nakor - the rather odd magician who is always making the best of things- also makes another appearance in this book, he also proves that despite his joking attitude his 'tricks' are worth their weight in gold at times.

