https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57579.Crazy_Horse
An amazing book about a hero of the Native Americans who faced impossible odds and stood with dignity and strength.
Three elements made this one of the best books I have ever read: -- The spiritual and natural aspect of how Crazy Horse and his people read the signs gave to the Universe.
I will always hold a copy of this book to hope to understand the ways of them.
The language is amazing.-- The history of how the expansion of settlers over the West was met by the tribes.
It's really ironic that they have carved up a mountain to make a tourist attraction dedicated to Crazy Horse as it's exactly the kind of thing he would have fought violently to prevent.Given all the materials written from the side of the white combatants this book is also important because it spells out the void that exist(s) between them and the Sioux.
You have to remember that although this book was written several decades ago it reads more like a contemporary work.
Copied review from Kirkus:"KIRKUS REVIEW"The author of Old Jules turns again to biography, this time in the saga of a great Indian leader, Crazy Horse.
Curly or the Light Haired Boy, son of a man who was virtually a mystic, was twelve at the start; he had friends among the whites, and no hatred nor bitterness against them.
in those open days, to the great Sioux reservations of South Dakota, to Fort Robinson and the Black Hills--the final resting places of refuge for many of the old buffalo-hunting Indians, the old traders, trappers, and general frontiersmen who looked with contempt upon the coming of the barbed wire and the walking plow.
Ammetto che leggere di ciascuna battaglia condotta da Cavallo Pazzo e di ogni nemico contro cui ha combattutto ha smorzato spesso il mio coinvolgimento in quella che, invece, è di per sé è una narrazione chiara in stile romanzo, che ha il grande pregio di far immergere il lettore nella storia di un popolo attraverso il punto di vista del popolo stesso.
Da questo libro emerge una figura meritatamente leggendaria, quella di un nativo ben lontano dallo stereotipo di guerrieri Sioux assetati di sangue e battaglie che vuole la tradizione popolare: Cavallo Pazzo non voleva altro che la pace per la propria gente, e che essa potesse abitare una terra in cui vivere libera così come era sempre stata prima dell'arrivo dell'uomo bianco e delle sue barbarie.
After commencing an in-depth study of Native American Tribes on the eastern seaboard and reading west, I crossed paths with the Lakotah Sioux and Crazy Horse in a hardcover book by Mari Sandoz, 'Crazy Horse: The Strange Man of the Oglalas.' Although the armchair journey ended here, I continued studying the Sioux.Sensed in words just so, Sandoz illumined the shadow side of Crazy Horse.
In this specific lifetime, he participated significantly in the defeat of Custer in the Battle of the Little Big Horn in 1876.
A legendary warrior, he fought many battles.
Thank you, Mari Sandoz!
sandoz tells the story of crazy horse in a comprehensive, complex, and extremely accessible way.
i have read several smaller biograhical pieces on crazy horse and most of them have had little impact on me.
so, the telling of his story is tricky business.
sandoz wrote this book shortly after crazy horse's death and it is written with the insight of an insider while still keeping an objective distance.
sandoz (while white) lived amongst the lakota tribes and seems to have really captured the spirit of the times.
As a result, her book is generally recognized as the closest to the truth about Crazy Horse as we can get.The author uses the voice of an omniscient Native American narrator to tell the story.
Please note that the narrator tells the story as many Native Americans would.
The pace is slow, Native American descriptors are used (e.g., "the moon of cherries black") followed by the white interpretation, and descriptions of persons, villages, and environments are quite detailed.
I found this method of telling the story to be perfect for enveloping the reader in the Native Americans' world and for clearly communicating how very differently they and the whites perceived nature, family, honor, and truth.
The author interviewed people who knew Crazy Horse and seemed to have gotten a clear understanding of his views and those of others surrounding him at the time.
They got Red Cloud and others to sign treaties to give up their lands and to live on reservations where conditions were horrible and most people were starving.
Crazy Horse led the battle at the Little Big Horn, but afterward he came to the realization that they could resist the white men no longer.
The buffalo herds which sustained them for food had disappeared, many Indians died from white men's diseases, and so Crazy Horse brought his people to Fort Robinson in peace.
Every Nebraskan should have read at least one work of Mari Sandoz, so I finally got around to reading “Crazy Horse,” her biography of the strange Lakota warrior who defeated Custer at the Battle of the Little Big Horn in June, 1876.
Ms. Sandoz wrote the story of Crazy Horse, called Curly as a child b/c of his lighter-colored hair and eyes compared to other Lakota, in a style that would resemble the story-telling of the Sioux, so it isn’t straightforward, but sometimes, almost rambling.
Crazy Horse was called “Their strange man” by his band of Lakota, b/c he never bragged about his coup or scalps from his battles, nor danced in the victory dances.
Crazy Horse is presented as a powerful and compelling person, doing his best in the most extreme of circumstances.During his childhood and adolescence, there is much joy and vitality as he moves across the plains visiting relatives and friends of other tribes, but he has already witnessed some of the illogical, violent response of the whites that foreshadow the future.The tribe has always thought he was a strange, and as he grows up he becomes a great hunter and warrior, with a powerful medicine which seems to protect him from the weapons of his enemies.
Crazy Horse is a fully-conceived person, not just the iconic figure.Of course his warrior abilities are turned to the Indian Wars as he fights to maintain the old ways, struggling against those of his own people who would give everything up.
Of course, Crazy Horse the man we come to know in this book undergoes many of the hardships of the people himself.
There are no complicated words here as she is trying to write in the plain-spoken Indian style but many times I felt she was unclear so you would find yourself reading passages several times over to try and get sure her meaning.
I still do recommend this work for a good perspective on the Native American view of history (even though some of the historical events in the book are no doubt dubious) if you are prepared to put in some effort and time reading it.
So much of it seemed contrived and unnecessarily wordy and akwardly written because she persisted in using "Indian" language, i.e., "In the month of Calves Sprouting Hair on their Legs, June, the white man traveled the Holy Road to the Black Hills in search of the metal that is the color of a setting sun, Crazy Horse....."  I often found myself re-reading sentances two and three times to figure out what she was actually saying.
But, the story really seems to dwell on the fighting between the different Indian tribes, their fixation on the white man's goods (especially whiskey) and the Indians seemingly callousness towards stealing each other's horses and the collecting of scalps.
Initially I was apprehensive about reading the book when the introduction described the author's writing style as being similar to the way a native storyteller might relate a saga around a campfire.
It is one thing to read even the very best white author's thoroughly researched and well written nonfiction biography or history of early relations between pioneers/settlers/soldiers and Indians, it is quite different to get an understanding of the Indian's perception of the same event based on Indian's spiritual and cultural background.
By the way, the author did not spin this story out of thin air, it is based on valid research and many personal interviews.
This is an awesome history of the life of Crazy Horse.
Sandoz not only researched historical documents exhaustively, but she also interviewed a great number of surviving participants, people who knew Crazy Horse.
Sandoz's resulting account moves us through the changes in the world that Crazy Horse inhabited, rather than giving us a narrativized set of facts.
Even if you already know (as I did) many of the facts of Crazy Horse's life, this is a great read which will change your perspective on american history and the Lakota, Cheyenne and Crow homelands.
Rightly is regarded as one of the outstanding books on Native American culture and history, it is the brilliantly told story not only of Crazy Horse but of his people. Together with all extra material found in this edition of the book originally published in 1942 it is unmissible if you want to learn about that period of time and the area of the Western US.
Completing this journey was a long, slow process, and a bit of a grind. I'm glad I stuck with it because in the end, the legend of Crazy Horse resonated with me and I'll remember his saga for the rest of my life.
Introduction to the 50th Anniversary Edition and NotesForewordAcknowledgements--Crazy Horse: The Strange Man of the OglalasWhite-Man ChronologyBibliographyNotes
CRAZY HORSE was originally published in 1942.
Mari Sandoz - 1896-1966 - wove a fascinating story of Crazy Horse, through talking with those elders still alive at the time who knew Crazy Horse.
She also studied all the interviews taken in 1906 and in 1930-31, from those knowledgeable about the times Crazy Horse lived.
This is the first time I have learned about Crazy Horse and his childhood up to his murder.
What I found in this book was a tragedy of a man who only wanted peace for his people.
Translators sometimes reinterpreted Crazy Horse's words to the Soldier Chiefs, causing untold damage.
It reinforces my string admiration of Crazy Horse.
As an example, when Crazy Horse rode into the Red Cloud Agency, the US Army officer noted that it was a "triumphal march, not a surrender."The are people and places that appear better than I expected: Three Stars (General Crook), Sitting Bull, and Grandmother's Land (Canada ruled by Queen Victoria).
There are also people whose behavior made me angrier than I expected: Long Hair (Custer), Red Cloud, and General Sheridan.It should also be noted that the language of the book requires some thought until you get to the midpoint of the book.
As in finally, I finished this book after four long months of frustration with it.
I picked it up after visiting the rip-off that is Crazy Horse Mountain, a half-century-long endeavor to carve the great hero's face into the side of a granite mountain in the Black Hills of South Dakota.
I wanted to know the story behind the man and understand why he was chosen to represent the Indian Nation in such a permanent way.
The best thing I got out of this story was a very...vague respect for Crazy Horse.

It is the stroy of the native American embodied in the life of one remarkable man.
It was published in 1942 and based on conversations with Indians who had first hand knowlege of Crazy Horse plus other research.
I struggled with the style of writing but I think she was writing in the way the Indians conveyed their oral tradition.
Interesting things I didn't know: Braves could have more than one wife and women had the protected right to leave their man.Things that I know and had confirmed: The dispicable treatment of native Americans by our government.

If you don't read this book, your life will not be complete; yea, it's one of those. The prose is fantastic; possibly the best I've ever read by an American writer. Sandoz seems to have successfully melded a modernist style with an obviously Oglala narratorial voice. The history seems rather accurate, and completely based on the Oglala point of view. The story is extremely moving. You empathize with the displaced native people; and I think that was what Mari Sandoz aimed for when writing this historic novel.
A great perspective on the oral traditions of a great people -- the Sioux, and all of their complexities. Sandoz shows a time of great transition and cultural upheaval. Though not a scholarly work by today's standards, Sandoz clearly had access to people who survived the darkest of times, and still remembered thte the brighter days, and trusted her to tell the story, if not completely accurately, at least with respect to their traditions and their voice. Truly sad that I had not ever been required to read this book in school.
This is a wonderful book.
I started lightening my considerable load of books when I went back to school a few years ago.
Not only did I keep this one, I took it with me.
I then had to jettison almost everything when I moved to New York City, and I had to get rid of it then.
But it's the kind of book I'll probably come back to occasionally.
Two things I really appreciated about it: 1.
2. This was the first book, I think, that gave me a real sense of exactly how their independence was broken and they were rounded up.
The is one of the best biographies I have ever read period, not only because of the detailed presentation of life and charachter that is achieved, but because it captures the Lakotah voice and point of view. I learned that when this book was first released in 1930 (or thereabouts) it was widely dismissed and only recently has come into its own. The story of the Sioux Lakotah is unbelievably harsh and this book allows the reader to really experience the events from the Native American perspective.
I really liked this book. The story of Crazy Horse mirrors the stories of other great leaders cut down by those close to them. Those who envied or feared them. Caesar, Jesus, and countless others unknown. Crazy Horse believed he was protected by a greater power. A vision from God. He faced the enemy often, fearlessly, and when he defeated the 7th Calvary at little big horn, it changed him life forever...very sad ending.
This book follows Crazy Horse, the infamous leader in the Battle of Little Bighorn. (Though the book discusses way more than just the Battle) The book covers his entire life from childhood, all the way through the end. The story is one of controversy, of love, of leadership, and what it meant to be a Native American at the time. More about this book can be found on my blog: http://hesaidbooksorme.blogspot.com
This is the story of Crazy Horse and his life from childhood to warrior to leader. The author grew up listening to the stories told by the old Indians, plus she did alot in research and interviews to make this book read as a novel. She is also telling the story of the plain Indians during this time and what they gave up because of the white man. The betrayal of Crazy Horse is hard to read, but this is a book worth reading.
