https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818811.Escape
Though those in favor of polygamy may wax poetic about how wonderful and supportive it is to have "sister-wives," the dynamic in Jessop's family was one of ruthless competition, with women who had no rights of their own battling for their husband's attention in order to ensure such basic needs as food and protection for their children.Having been born at a time when the women ahead of me were fighting hard so I could have rights that I pretty much take for granted, Jessop's story is a chilling reminder of what life is like for women who are raised in a religion which tells them that their only hope of salvation is perfect devotion to their husbands and, if their husband beats them, it is simply because of their own failings.
Having lived near Colorado City, reading this book made me look back on my experience living in St. George, Utah with new eyes.
I wondered if Veronica was the third or fourth wife to some old guy or was she sent to college because she was plain and would likely never marry.As an adult I lived in St. George for three years between 2003 and 2006.
I still avoided the men completely, even gave them the evil eye if my teenaged daughters were with me.I came up with ways of starting conversations with the women.
The FLDS "church" is perpetrating human rights atrocities on American soil, and the government has, until very recent years, turned a blind eye to it because of how much we all like to tip-toe around any time a person starts screaming about their right to the free practice of religion.
Add to that a healthy dose of interstate and international trafficking in children and adults for the purpose of sexual slavery and you've got a story shocking enough to keep anybody engaged to the very end.The weakness of Escape is in its terrible writing.
Just put your name on the cover?Oh, how I would love to read the same story with writing that's even slightly stronger.
Have you ever read a book that completely encompassed your entire life?
:O) This was a morbidly fascinating book.
I devoured it and plan on passing it on to my mother and sister to read.I am LDS and confidently can say how very few similarities there are between the FLDS and LDS churches.
As an LDS woman I have the freedom to be who I am and pursue my different interests.
The FLDS cult made a prison for women and children.
The LDS church actively preaches how important and indispensable women are.A definite must read for all!
I loved her book Triumph so I had to read Escape.
Both were amazing and super eye opening!!!*P.s. This is my first 5 star book of 2018*This book goes through Carolyn's life.
It starts off with her being born into Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (FLDS) and ending with her freedom and her success of her children.When she was eighteen years old she had an arranged marriage Merril Jessop, a man 30 years older than her and who already had three wives.
This book was so heart breaking.
However, it had a great ending of success!
with outsiders.
After living a life where every move she made had to be 'approved' by her husband for 17 years, and after bearing this (and I use this word loosely here) 'man' eight children, she escaped her prison.I, too, was 'born into' a fundamentalist religion, and Carolyn has my utmost respect for escaping, and for writing all of it down for the world to read.
or, at the very least, emotionally crippling.
mentally, emotionally ...
And, in some ways, you're never really 'out'.If you want to know what the FLDS really does behind its closed/locked doors, read this.
A Jim Jones kind of warping of something that was meant to be pure.Carolyn Jessop tells the story of her life growing up in the FLDS in a family that had been involved and deeply faithful for many generations.
She tells of being married off to a 50 year old man at the age of 18 and the rape and mental abuse she endured by him and his family, as well as feeliing helpless to protect the 8 children she would go on to be forced to have with him (3 pregnancies of which almost killed her, one child of which struggled with cancer of the spine).
If a few (or more) people want to get together and make it work, I say, “hey, why not?” (Not to mention, Sex at Dawn: The Prehistoric Origins of Modern Sexuality, which I recently read, presents an interesting view on the likely multiple man/woman origins of human relationships.) No, the scariest part is the complete and systematic control and degradation of women and children that occurs in this society.
The majority of this book is Carolyn’s very intimate, detailed retelling of her day to day life in a home that she shared with five sister wives and dozens of children.
She testified in last year's trial against their "prophet" Warren Jeffs (though this trial is not covered in the book) which resulted in his state conviction and a sentence of 10 years in prison for accomplice to rape for arranging the marriage of a 14 year old girl to her 19 year old first cousin.
Sons and daughters, future priesthoods and mothers/wives, continue to be raised in this environment today.It is amazing that this woman not only escaped, but that she succeeded in being awarded custody of her children.
As of the writing of the book, the author had not heard from her daughter after her return to the FLDS.
That she had a sense of self, and a sense that this was all terribly wrong, is only a small indication of what a strong woman she is.What will sustain you and make this not a yucky reading experience is that we all know from the title that she does, in fact, escape.
I hope.--- a day later ---Yesterday my kids watched two dreadful Barbie movies back to back so I could read this book, then I stayed up late to finish it.
But there's one small problem -- I want to read more about this woman and her family!
Ms. Jessop's depiction of the FLDS faith community is one utterly devoid of love and dominated by members seeking to have power over one another in the most jaw-dropping, vicious, abusive means imaginable.
Carolyn Jessop's story debunks the popular, 60s era thought that "It doesn't matter what you believe as long as you're sincere." Ayaan Hirsi Ali takes it farther in Infidel and Nomad, her memoirs of leaving fundamentalist Islam, when she asserts that some religions and cultures--for her those that promote or permit the abuse of women and children--are inferior to others.
It gives a true glimpse into the core of polygamy, into the crazy world of (insane) prophets.
Control preventing the minimum necessity, spreading hate and quarrel between the women, spreading fear and using threats that become terrible reality.
She is assigned in marriage by the prophet who’s told by God the name of her husband-to-be.
All are made to believe that a woman could become celestial goddess only if she was married to a man in this life who was worthy of becoming a god after death and only if she behaved herself, so he would choose to do so.
Eek!They believe all sorts of wonky things that I see as wonky because I was not born into it, so, from the outside, that stuff just seems crazy jacked up.
One woman, Carolyn Jessop, had just enough exposure to the outside world, some higher education, and a fiercely independent and stubborn streak that after nearly 20 years of polygamous marriage, (abuse at the hands of her husband and sister wives included with vows!
The FLDS does not make it easy for a woman to get out.
They will keep your children.
They will tell horrible lies to your children so they fear and hate you.
I couldn't put this book down, so I read it in one day. I'm not sure what's more outrageous - the fact that this book is NOT fiction, or the fact that this craziness is going on in the 21st century United States. Despite the horror of Jessop's story, her words are still uplifting and her triumphs against such impossible odds are inspiring. I was tearing up at the end. Definitely a must-read.
It was really interesting to see into family dynamics in a polygamist household and my heart just ached at the helplessness of the women and children to do anything about their situations without taking drastic measures.
and it still does!Ms. Jessop details her life from being forced into a marriage at 18 to a 50 year old man (barf!) to her unbelievable escape with all 8 of her children (she was only in her early 30's) and how she was finally able to make her situation permanent.
The writing was simple, without flourish, but the story itself was enough to keep the reader interested and drove the story forward quickly.
This book was not particularly well written, but I give it four stars because I found it engrossing. The insight into polygamy and the cult mentality was enlightening. Jessop paints herself in a very positive light, and the cynic in me wonders what is true and what is not. However, the fact that she had a severely disabled child (along with seven others) and still managed to get them all out couldn't help but win my sympathy. The book also helped me better understand one of my favorite HBO shows, Big Love. :)
This book opened my eyes to how things are so different and challenging. It really makes you think that maybe you don't have it so bad. It drew me in, I felt like that I was there with her. I really enjoyed this book. I think that it will stay with me for a long time.
Interesting -- kind of like watching Cops is interesting. You don't really like it, but you can't pull yourself away beause it's so unbelievable.
It always frustrates me so much when people are so blithe about pulling ourselves up by our bootstraps, as though it's just so easy to escape the circumstances of our birth and culture and build an independent life.
It took a lot of lucky breaks and an incredible force of will for Ms. Jessop to change her life.
Jessop's own parents can be healthy overall, but how the more these marriage were used as a tool of power and politics, the more people were forced and manipulated into marriages, the less healthy they seemed to be.
I had never really wondered all that much about what life would be like for women living in polygamy.
My general attitude towards the whole FLDS culture (including Warren Jeffs, when he was getting tons of news coverage) was, "Well, that's their thing." But, this book makes it abundantly clear that this isn't just a matter of freedom of religion.
No wonder Jeffs was so opposed to education--it enabled Carolyn Jessop to wake up and realize how wrong things were with the FLDS religion.
But, those differences were infrequent, and not too distracting, so no doubt the book was helped immensely by Laura (can't remember her last name).
After reading this book I not only belive these things are truly happening,but while reading it,I wanted to jump up and try to get all of those women out of that religion!!
LOL Of course,I'm just an itty bitty woman that lives in an itty bitty town in Wisconsin,so not much I can do for these women.I just thank God that America's Most Wanted was able to "capture" the guy that became the Leader of this so called religion.
A religion that belives that the Men are the rulers,Women are to be nothing more than slaves,and do as they are told,and the wife can be of any age,,starting at age 12,the younger the better,in fact.
Sometimes it contradicts in some places and it gets repetitive but the main thing to remember is WHY THE HELL DO PEOPLE HAVE TO STAY IN THESE STUPID ASS CULTS?I reckon they are brain washed into them, but it's so warped!
Women have no choice and get stuck marrying men they don't want to marry.
What do you DO about this?Carolyn Jessop showed a lot of courage getting out with all of her children, but what can you do for the other women stuck in situations like this and the lost boys as well?I just don't know where you'd start.
Can you say "Rush to publish"?There are two things I'm going to review here.
The second is the actual writing and presentation of the story.First thing.
Great story.
Thought-provoking.Second thing.
If the story wasn't so compelling by itself, I never would have kept reading.
I don't think this ever got past a second editor review.
Terrible.
Terrible.
Terrible!!!!How long did it take you to figure out who Uncle Roy was?
I had a guess, but I finally gave up after the first quarter of the book and looked it up on the Internet!
It finally was explained about the middle of the book.
This is certainly a must-read if you live in Utah, or Texas; if you are Mormon; or if you think polygamy is a victimless crime. It would certainly be interesting if a current polygamist wife could write her version of life in the FLDS community! This book is horrifying, but fascinating. It's difficult to believe anything like this is happening in THIS century.
Inacreditável! Na primeira parte do livro, e de tão estranha e incompreensível é esta realidade, parecia-me quase que estava a ler ficção. Esta senhora é uma verdadeira heroína dos tempos modernos.
This is the most thorough detailing of this particular cultural and religious context to this sect's mode reality that I've ever come across.
It's life lived amongst vastly "unequal" members who are yet classified family.But beyond the servile and abusive to individuality "form" is also the occurrence of vile evil perpetrators becoming authority at the "head" in this time and in Carolyn's case.With her cognition of identity and purpose continually assaulted for manipulation, I am in awe of her survival skills and her ultimate escape and professions.
You will understand the cognition of abuse better if you get context to the reality of authorities in the abused lives.
Jessop is a sixth generation polygamist who took her 8 kids and escaped the FLDS cult in Colorado City AZ.
She was one of several wives and her husband was a major leader in the cult.
Especially now that Warren Jeffs has been arrested.What I like about the book is she really explains the infrastructure of the family and the cult.
Anyway she was pretty devoted until Warren took over and started preaching about the apocolypse and compounds.
Jessop decided to take her kids before the next step was drinking the Kool-Aid Jim Jones style.
I did like this book but it was very disturbing to me in the sense that people really live in that kind of abuse.
I was interested in reading it with all of the "YFZ" stuff on the news.
It is a true story about a woman who after living in a polygamy colony all her life and being one of the wives of an abusive husband finally, in her own word, "escapes".
(Of course when you have that many wives....anyway) If you are interested in learning more about polygamy it is a good book and I would suggest.
I don't know where to begin at how amazing, shocking, and ultimately hopeful this book is.
When I first started I thought it would be a quick read because I had read a few memoirs from wives that had left(escaped) polygamy and the FLDS.
I was fully engaged by the time Carolyn married Marril.
What a hellish existance and a brave journey to freedom.I immediately looked up Jeffs and Jessop after I finished.
There is a photo of Merril Jessop's first 6 wives and reading about Jeffs trial was quite an eye opener, but his persona seemed accurately described in Escape.
Ugh.Excellent read.
This story blew my mind away. First of all, the story is very well written, it's very detailed. Things like these should never, EVER happen to anyone! I can't believe some people are so mean to play with other people's mind. These people brainwashed and ruined so many people, families, children, husbands, wives, parents,… I admire Carolyn for being so strong and intelligent even though she grew up in a community where people didn't think with their own brains. Having your own opinion and intelligence is power. And every single person in this world should have that.
