https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/794533.Madame_Serpent
Okay, I know this book isn't exactly serious literature.
But Italy was not a country in the 1500s.
Not politically, not linguistically, and definitely not like this:"Oh, our poor country, Sebastiano!
Our poor suffering country!
I know how you feel.
118)"Yes, Sebastiano," she said, "for the sake of your country you would gladly die a thousand deaths.
. .One day, Sebastiano, you will be called upon to do great deeds for our country." (pg.
The Papal States?
Except to poor Sebastiano, who (view spoiler)[meets an extremely unpleasant end, executed by being torn apart by four horses.
This novel is as much the story of Jeanne of Navarre as it is Catherine.
It poses the personalities, passions and motives that may have formed the back story of St. Bartholomew’s Massacre.In the introduction, Plaidy notes how her narrative on Catherine’s alleged poisonings fits the historical record: King Francis did die after drinking from a cup and it did pave the way for Catherine to rule through young Charles and ship would be rival, Mary, back to Scotland.
Queen Jeanne of Navarre did die just after she signed the marriage contract pursued by Catherine.The dialog is a bit stilted, but works great for Catherine.
Heading to France, de Medici arrives where Henry and King Francis await her, only to discover that she is involved in a love triangle not of her own making.
After the heir to the French Throne is poisoned, all eyes turn to de Medici when the culprit is found to be an Italian.
I will be the first to admit that I love these period pieces that surround themselves with European monarchies.
That said, Plaidy successfully paints Catherine de Medici and those around her in brushstrokes that depict struggle, scandal, and the plight of European growth.
This book was amazing. Not necessarily the best book ever written, but it was entertaining as fuck. Also trashy. Also crazy the more you read. I was rooting for Catherine hardcore. She was a vicious she-devil but I could understand why. She was a pawn, but she used that to her advantage. Also Anne, I wanted to hate, but she made such a good villain to Catherine.Trigger Warning: Animal abuse and death.
Decent, if not groundbreaking. Occasionally stilted and weighed down with expositionary dialogue, but nonetheless an engaging read and look at the life of one of France's most infamous Queens. Though Madame Serpent was definitely not the best Jean Plaidy novel I have ever read, I can say I enjoyed it - for the most part - and that it was worth the $10 for the ebook.
All I was interested in was seeing how Catherine would take revenge (view spoiler)[on Diane (hide spoiler)], and even that wasn't done with by the end of the book - and that was the only thing keeping me reading.Basing an entire plot on the underhanded fighting of women was boring, and Catherine's spite, though well deserved, was tiring - her character could've been shown in such a better way.
When she was a child, Catherine was an orphan, imprisoned (because Medici were overthrown in Florence, so she was a hostage in convents) and also obliged to marry Henry II of France, by her uncle (the Pope Clement VII).
Henry despised her and had an old woman, Daiane de Poitiers, as his mistress.
Besides this humiliation Catherine had to endure, Daiane also had power over Catherine's children, they didn't love their mother (only Henry and Margot loved Catherine).
I think Catherine was the real evidence of what a woman, despised by her love, can become!
Here she brings what makes Catherine, become such a evil woman on France's history.
This book re-imagines the events that eventually shaped Catherine de Medici into the woman she would become.
Unfortunately, all of Henry's love went to his mistress Diane de Poitiers.
She had Henry wrapped around her little finger, and Catherine could do nothing about it.
In her own quiet way, Catherine agitates her enemies, in the shadows, no one is the wiser, until it is too late.Plaidy's descriptions of court dress, and festivities are delightful.
Men and women were considered equals, for the most part, not like the English courts I have read so much about.
An historian friend of mine called Catherine de Medici a "formidable woman." Before I read this book, I knew almost nothing about her, but this book certainly doesn't portray her as a "formidable woman." It shows her more as a frail, meek, tormented woman who has been for the most part abandoned by her husband.
This is before all the "good parts" where Catherine indeed becomes "Madame Serpent." It's a good thing this is the first of three novels in a series about de Medici, although I think that it would have been MUCH better to combine the three books into a single title.Still, I'm somewhat disappointed by the novel.
Henry, as a youth was enamored by a women 20 years older than him, Diane de Poitiers, who after he became king was his lover and controlled everything he did.
Catherine was thought to have paid someone to poison Henry's older brother, who was the Dauphine of France and would become king before Henry.
the next book I am going to read is "The Italian Woman" by Jean Plaidy which goes into the influence Catherine de Medici had on her son Frances 2 and his 2 brothers who became kings of France after his death.
It's been over two years since I've last read a Jean Plaidy book, which is a little crazy knowing that ever since college I've considered her one of my favorite historical fiction authors.
It seems she's been actually been the background character in several other books I've read when reading about her husband's Mistress, Diane de Poitiers, or her daughter, or Mary, Queen of Scots, her daughter-in-law, or even her perfumer.
It starts when she is a little girl in Italy, and follows her through the time her husband, King Henry of France, dies.
Catherine is in love with her husband, but has to suffer the humiliation of Henry preferring a woman much older, and merely tolerating his loving wife.
No one realizes how very clever she really is… I didn’t know anything about Catherine before reading this book, so of course, now I must go find something nonfiction, so I can find out what is true and what isn’t.
Not only that, Madame Serpent is the first in the trilogy about Catherine, and I do plan to read the others.
Catherine de Medici was Queen of France and her story touched on many of the same events.
This is the first of a trilogy about her and gives excellent color to her early life in midst the political machinations of Rome and Florence, then to her loveless but prolific marriage to Henry II of France.
She definitely hides her intelligence until she has the opportunity to lead with strength when France is threatened and she is regent while the king is away.
The political dances of the French court are as complex and diabolical as those of Italy.A delightful read.
I am a huge fan of all written by Jean Plaidy!
She is an incredible author; her attention to detail, her descriptions of the French monarchy and courts give you the feeling of being present in the time and place she is describing.
In this first installment of Catherine de Medici, I was drawn to the Italian princess.
She is so innocent, so full of dreams and aspirations; hopes and disillusions.
You feel so sorry for her.
She is sent to France to marry a prince she does not love, torn away from her first love.
Catherine becomes a women bent on vengeance.
No dust cover so I don't know which edition this would be. Hard cover anyway.Interesting biography of Catherine de Medici's years married to Henry, King of France... but she's such an unpleasant person that it's not a very pleasant read. I felt sorry for her and kept wishing something would go her way, but at the same time she's so full of hatred.
Siempre va a tener un lugar especial en mi corazón. La vida de Catalina realmente es frustrante y la autora logra introducirte como una de sus damas o la misma Catalina, provoca sentimientos confusos y te deja un sabor amargo en la boca, como ya es propio de los libros de la autora.
A sympathetic and well written account of Catherine de Medici's first years at the French court and her rise to power as queen of France and following her husband's death as the country's most powerful woman.
For a historical fiction lover (not just paying attention to romance), this was an absolute treat. I enjoyed the second one even more and am anxiously waiting to get my hands on Queen Jezebel!
This is my favorite book!
Pero este libro trata sobre el control de las emociones, y Catalina de Medicis supo comportarse tan bien en la corte, ¡Reina de Francia chingado!Bueno ya me calmo, es que en serio tuve que auto espoilarme para saber que pasaba con Diana de Poirtiers, porque no podía con mi coraje.
El libro termina con la Catalina Enamorada, la que cometía errores, la que solo quería que Enrique la amase, asesinada por la nueva Catalina Reina Madre y Regente de Francia dispuesta a llenar el vacío de su corazón con poder.
This book is the first in the Medici trilogy and focuses on the early days of Catherine's life.
It was really nice how the Author started with the young life of Henry II and Catherine de Medici, and how they felt about their marriage.
Catherine has traveled from her homeland of Italy, leaving behind the love of her life.
Through out their marriage and reign Catherine will be competing with Diane for Henry's affection over a span of 26 years.
I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys historical fiction, and the author has done brilliantly seeing things from different characters perspective through out the novel.
I gave this book the top rating because I couldn't put it down.
This is the first book in a long while that I couldn't wait to get home from work, get dinner over with and get to my comfy reading spot to get to reading this book.
It flowed and keeps you engaged the entire time.
Now all I really knew about Catherine de Medici was from watching the TV show Reign and from snippets on YouTube so being this is historical fiction I take what I read with a grain of salt but it is wonderful reading.
Loved this book!
I do love Jean Plaidy, but one major critique making this novel not her best - The interactions or sparking moments behind Catherine's intense love for Henry were never introduced, so we saw Catherine's love to the point of obsession for Henry, but not whatever caused it. She goes straight from sent against her will to marry a French prince she doesn't know to 100% in love, major gap in the narrative. It also dragged a bit.
While I did enjoy the dip into a period and place in history that I didn't know a great deal about - France in the 1500's I felt quite disconnected with the characters. I frequently wanted to shout at Catherine; her weakness, her constant ruddy whinging made me want to throw the book at the wall. Being in love with a man who humiliates you for 30 years, good grief woman get a lover like everyone else and move on. Pretty much the last 5 pages made me actually like her.
Enjoyable, well-paced retelling of the story of Catherine de Medici through her marriage to Henry, second son of Franics I of France and up to the death of Henry. Plaidy is sympathetic to the difficulties faced by Catherine and the self-control she needed to develop to survive the politics of the royal court of France.
I found this one a little slow although I did enjoy it overall. This one stayed mostly to the perspective of Catherine de Medici which helped the immersion more than having multiple povs. I did find Catherine irritating at times with her obsession over Henry. I plan to read the next two books in the trilogy eventually.
I used Jean Plaidy to cover the gaps in my A'Level Europen history class, because the teacher was just too boring and Jean Plaidy's writings brought that era of history to life. BTW I got an A grade in my GCE A'Level History.
... Que bueno que no me compré la trilogía completa.
i found this book very interesting and a very good read
What a wonderful book, after ‘reign’ on Netflix i was thinking i don’t know anything about Catherine d’medici so i wanted to explore... this was a wonderful beginning👍
