https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133394.Our_Man_in_Havana
Would the world be in the mess it is if we were loyal to love and not to countries?"At times like this we can see Greene's underlying message, "If I love or if I hate, let me love or hate as an individual," says Wormold, and the author himself has said,"In human relationships, kindness and lies are worth a thousand truths."The book is a bitter black farce, with an ending as much of a "banana-skin" as any I have ever read, with Wormold partly a puppet, partly a numb automaton, and partly ridiculously incompetent.
Many of the scenes are funny, and the way Greene presents his hero as simply another variety of fiction provides opportunity for revealing observations and asides.But an entertainment, however unserious, demands some sense of danger, and whatever dangerousness the first part of the book created for me, the latter part of the book dissipated.
It was then I realized that Greene took his plot much less seriously than I did, and I began—little by little—to lose interest in the book.Still, the book was entertaining, with some laughs, some thrills, and an interesting discussion of what are good reasons for engaging in violence (hint: working for Batista or for MI6 are not acceptable choices).
Both the lists - one by Britain-based Crime Writers' Association and the other by Mystery Writers of America, contained multiple books by Graham Greene.
Our hero is not a forceful character, it seemed to me that he, like the author, had been a victim of bullying- he is gratified when his daughter set a bully on fire and oh yes - his wife has left him for another man as well.Wormold gets an offer to be recruited by a British agent to spy for the British Intelligence and after some initial reluctance he agrees because he needed the money for Milly's education.
Who ever knew that Graham Greene could be so funny? This is fine entertainment, although as always influenced by Greene's view on morality and fate. Not that that's bad, because Greene does it so well.This idea about inventing a spy network and going along with the deception reminds me of the story of Agent Garbo during WWII.
Mr Wormold (love that name) sells vacuum cleaners in Havana, not very successfully, until one day he is recruited by a British agent to work for his country while living in that no longer romantic foreign outpost.
Well--the story takes off from there with a cast of slightly crazy characters: Wormold's religiously manipulative daughter Milly, Captain Segura the head of the local police who has mastered torture, locals of varying nationalities, and multiple members of the spy community.
(It is with considered purpose I do not use the term intelligence to describe that community.)This is a great read that is timeless in it's message and story.
Greene divided his own fiction between the novels and stories he considered more serious, such as The Heart of the Matter, and those he viewed as lighter "entertainments." This relatively short (247 pages --and not all of them with text) novel is one of the latter; and like many of the "entertainments" it draws on the author's World War Ii experiences as a spy for Britain's M-16 intelligence agency.
As such, the story often has very much the feel of a traditional farce to it – albeit an intelligent and very funny one and one contains many elements in it that feel to the reader almost feasible, almost believable!So whilst ‘Our Man in Havana’ is essentially light-hearted and loads of fun, perhaps there are elements in and amongst which do convey a more serious message(s) and allude to more serious themes for our consideration?Whilst maybe not considered as great, as profound, as meaningful nor of the same import as Graham Greene’s ‘serious’ novels – it is clearly not intended to be so.
He can become the undercover British Agent in Havana, watch for/report on suspicious activity, recruit his own agents, set up an expense account, and start earning that second income he so desperately needs.The only trouble is Wormold is about as ill-suited to this line of work as an elephant for bead-work.
This friend suggests he start inventing fake reports, imaginary agents and – by extension – an appropriate expense account.
I especially liked the scenes where Wormold went to warn a couple of ‘agents’, their lives might be in danger.
I half read, half listened to this book because I was so anxious to finish it.
It's a cold war spy novel taking place in the late '50s in Havana (pre-Castro).
Our Man in Havana is a humorous satire on the the cold war spy era.
Greene especially takes aim at the inept bureaucracy behind the British spy service.
He also begins to hire imaginary agents to support him in his growing spy network.But what really drew me into Greene's novel were the well-drawn characters.
At times I thought it seemed a little dated (now it's a period piece) but the mixture of black humour and Greene's plot line lived up to its category - an entertainment.The funny thing is that it is all about fake news.
Throw in Wormold's German friend Dr. Hasselbacher (which side is he on, East or West?), Beatrice, a secretary for the love interest, Lopez, a dry-humour local who works in the vacuum shop and Captain Segura, the terrifying police officer who wants to marry Wormold's daughter and the entertainment factor is set.To create the scam, Dr. Hasselbacher suggests that he just make up the stories to get payment from MI6.
Graham Greene is all about timing.
Greene. Εξαιρετικός και -επιπλέον- διασκεδαστικός. Μου άρεσε πολύ, θα έβαζα 4,5/5 αν είχε μισά :-)
Let me start with the first question: Mr. Wormold, is it true that you were recruited by an SIS agent, who went under the name of Hawthorne, in Havana during the winter of 1955?Mr. Wormold: It is true, sir.Q2 Chairman: Please describe the recruitment process.Mr. Wormold: I was drinking with my old friend Dr. Hassellbacher at Sloppy Joe’s.
According to the Dossier, these depict the parts of a massive weapon of mass destruction, very possibly nuclear.Mrs. Wormold: Actually, those were the drawings of the parts of the Atomic Pile Suction vacuum cleaner.Q11 Chairman: Is that true, Mr. Wormold?Mr. Wormold: Uh yes, sir.
Έχει χιούμορ ίσως παραπάνω από άλλες του ιστορίες, μα αυτό αποτελεί ένα κοινό γνώρισμά της γραφής του.
Ίσως έχει και παραπάνω δράση, αν και δεν είναι πτυχή άγνωστη στα βιβλία του - απεναντίας.
Από εκεί και πέρα ξεκινάει μια ιστορία που ποτέ δεν αποκλίνει σε φτηνές υπερβολές καταφέρνοντας να είναι πάντα έξυπνη, απρόβλεπτη, απίστευτα αστεία, απολαυστικά σκερτσόζα και εμβριθής.Η Κούβα, η κατασκοπεία, το καθεστώς προ της -προφητικής- κατάρρευσής του, το κλίμα, τα κτίρια - όλα ζωντανεύουν μπροστά στα μάτια του αναγνώστη.
I could almost see the smoke from Graham Greene's typewriter keys swirling in the air as he tore through sheets of erasable bond, churning out this crazy, wonderful and utterly a propos satire of spies.It's the mid 1950's when we meet our man, Jim Wormold, a milquetoast British expatriate who moved to Havana prior to World War II, having escaped military service due to his bum leg.
Wormold is inexplicably recruited as a spy by MI6- the British Secret Service- in a fabulous men's room encounter with scene stealer and smooth operator, Hawthorne (a.k.a 59200).
Even though this is one of Graham Greene's "entertainments", it is his own real employment with MI6 during WW2 that adds layers to this otherwise light hearted satire on the British Secret Service.
Here Greene has written a story of a British citizen (Wormold) living in Havana in the early 1950s during the Batista regime.
Soon Wormold is creating a complex yet hilarious series of reports for London of spy activities with fictional characters and drawings of vacuum cleaner attachments being passed off as sophisticated Russian atomic weaponry.It all starts to unravel when the fiction of his reports become a reality, with real versions of fictional characters being killed in mysterious circumstances.
I first read this book 30 years ago and was charmed by Greene's sardonic sendup of the spy genre (I didn't fully appreciate at the time that OMIH pre-dated most of what I thought of as the spy genre).
Re-reading it again this year after a visit to Cuba, I loved (along with the wit, which sparkles as brightly as ever) the deft way Greene conveys the atmosphere of Havana (more the same than you might think, after 60 years) in very few words.
A well-written, perfectly plotted, political, prescient "entertainment" that, while reading, I didn't feel at all the implausibility of the recruitment by the British Secret Service of a vacuum-cleaner salesman living in Cuba or that of the courting of his Catholic teenage daughter by a Cuban policeman/enforcer.
The humor in the dialogue and elsewhere is dry and funny in a-wink-and-a-nod kind of way.
The only criticism I have is of the ending, which seemed just a bit too 'twee.' (Though I'm not British, it's the perfect word to use.) Despite that critique, though, one of the strengths of this story is the heart that's behind it.
It’s such a beautiful rendering of a description, and I can see the thing so clearly, and it so perfectly made itself that at that moment, for Our Man, and me.The postmodern meta-fictional aspect of the story is something I’d like to spend a few words on.
’You talk like a novelist,’ she said.Or is it the manner of belief that makes the difference, a kind of epistemology of distrust and holding-back that feeds in on itself, and becomes a variety of credulity that’s generically bomb-proof?’Now if my friend, Mr Wormald here, had invented you, you would have been a happier man.
An alcoholic British expatriate Jim Wormold - who owns a shop that sells vacuum cleaners is hired by a British intelligence agency as their man (spy) in Havana.
But when he is assigned the job of a spy by Hawthorne (the British intelligence agent who arrives as a customer at Wormold's shop), there is something to do.
Would the world be in the mess it is if we were loyal to love and not to countries?” Our Man in Havana is filled with poignant similes and comedic set pieces.
While this book is classified as one of Greene's entertainments, Wormold's predicament is quite depressing.
It follows the unfortunate Wormold, a British vacuum cleaner salesman in Havana whose shortage of funds finds him willing to accept an offer to join the British Intelligence Service.
As a generally inept and careless person, he can do any actual spying, so he ends up sending fake reports back to London so that he can use his expense fund to pay for his daughter's many expensive needs.
There is also plenty of domestic farce as his daughter leads him into a series of misfortunes.The book can be read just as humor, but Greene has more to say than that.
I had read this book many years ago and remember it as a farcical lampoon.
But I had not remembered it was such a sophisticated piece of writing.
Catholicism, anti-American, criticism of England's treatment of it's Empire, the arrogance of the English class system, and a clarity as to what drove the cold war along were all covered.
Greene also included lots of whisky, drinking and bars.The characters were great.
The mundane, underachieving vacuum seller Wormold, his half-nun/half-vixen daughter, the bumbling spy master Hawthorne, an even more bumbling assassin Carter, the menacing Captain Segura, the whisky loving Hasselbacher and a cast of supporting characters.
A brilliant, hilarious read of espionage and pompous civil servants who are so inept they're not fit to run a chip shop.
Perhaps not so funny if you've worked for the civil service and you realise that the story is entirely feasible.
Is that what happened in East Timor?
Quickly everyone moved on before anyone noticed what had happened, and at least the Australian PM got a successful war to add to his CV, not to mention access to gas fields on the continental shelf.
This didn't really appeal to me much. It was meant to be comedic in tone and I suppose I found it slightly so. It is Graham Greene taking a shot at the world of British Intelligence in pre-Castro Cuba. Most reviewers seemed to like this so I think the problem is mine rather than the book's!
Given the supposed military intelligence that led to the war in Iraq, it's tempting to look to books such as "Our Man in Havana," Graham Greene's comic spy novel about the Cold War, for parallels to our current situation.
(In the book, drawings of pieces of a household vacuum cleaner are passed off as schematics for sophisticated weaponry.) Rather than there being any direct correlation, however, it brings more to mind that quote sometimes attributed to Mark Twain about how history may not repeat itself, but it rhymes.On a lighter note, it might be fun to someday recreate the chess game played in "Our Man" that pits miniature Scotch bottles against miniature bourbon bottles, with captured pieces being consumed by the player doing the capturing.
It's one of the more humorous scenes in the book.
The sauciness of teenage saint Millie, her too-old-for-a-suitor torturing policeman who knows everything that goes on in Havana (and probably Cuba), her father, Wormold, who is "our man in Havana", not to mention his secretary and agents, provided me with belly laughs, snickers and guffaws aplenty.
Wormold ekes by as a vacuum cleaner dealer until approached by a Secret Service agent and pushed into becoming an agent for the British Secret Service.
The reluctant Wormold from then on must find fodder for reports and the fun begins.This book introduced me to Grahame Greene's writing and based on the pure pleasure of listening to this story on audiobook, it will not be my last book authored by Greene.
Perhaps it's safest to assume every expatriate living in pre-revolution Cuba is a spy in Greene's classic Cold War espionage satire. Vacuum salesman James Wormold has no interest in being an MI6 agent but the money sure comes in handy in raising his beautiful teenage daughter, who has caught the eye of a notoriously dangerous military Captain. Greene's brisk prose is alternately hilarious and touching and even thought-provoking at times, accomplishing more in 228 pages than most authors achieve in a lifetime.
So, he starts making stuff up.There are some very funny parts of this book - the "missile drawings" that were obviously based on a vacuum cleaner is hysterical.
The conversation between Hawthorne and his boss where the boss convinces himself that Wormold is actually some sort of a merchant king is bitingly funny, and also quite a propos of current politics, where, apparently, 49% of America can be convinced that a lying moron with inherited money is actually a brilliant strategist worthy of being President.
When I was a youngster I read alot of Graham Greene. This one feels to me to be less typical, Catholicism isn't such a feature and guilt isn't quite such an overwhelming presence as in some of his other novels. By contrast this is fairly light.It's an enjoyable read and there's a value that still seems fairly relevent in it's message of being mindful of the potential sources of intelligence information.
Not a bad book by any means, but the 150-page set-up seemed to be really excessive when compared to the 50-page climax. Overall, it was a clever, humorous take on the ultra-serious world of international espionage. I don't say this very often (ever?), but I think this book would have worked better as a short story.
So this is my third Greene fiction reading, in fact, his books I read included "A Sort of Life" many years ago and a few weeks ago, "Ways of Escape." It happened around early this month when I came across this Vintage paperback at the DASA BookCafe and swiftly I decided to have it as part of trade-in exchange since its handsome volume with readable fonts impressed me, in other words, it simply enticed me to have a look and read the whole story.
