https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76235.Sherlock_Holmes_Short_Stories

like all Conan Doyle's story was great....if you are abig fan of him you would enjoy it i can thousand bet on that.
لأول مرة أقرأ قصصًا باللغة الانجليزية، رغم وقوفي عند بعض الكلمات إلا أن التجربة بالعموم كانت سلسة وممتعة.هذا الكتاب عبارة عن خمس قصص للمحقق الشهير شيرلوك هولمز، كتبت بلغة مبسطة يرويها لنا الدكتور/واتسون زميله الطبيب.كمصافحة أولى، أعتبر الحبكة مفضوحة؛ خصوصًا في قصة "إبهام المهندس".لكن الإيقاع القصصي جميل.حبيته :)
This was a fun book. The short stories are certainly creative, though they sometimes get a bit redundant in that, in good Holmes' fashion, details are described and Holmes is the only one who can put them all together. It did get me to be a better observer, though I can't quite figure a person out yet by his footprint.
Once again i amazed with that over-great detective, Sherlock Holmes. When i read this book, i was scared,the stories are scary, and i was alone in my bedroom. But i have got the beautiful sentence, when Watson attacked, Holmes got his tears and Watson realize that Holmes is the best friend he has ever had
the book contains six stories and adventures of Sherlock Holmes:1-the man with twisted lips. 2- the Engineer's thumb. 3-the patient. 4-the Disappearance of Lady Frances Carfax. 5-the three Garridebs. 6-Wisteria House. this book is useful for English learners who are upper-intermediate or advanced.
Mainly skimmed this, couldn’t bother for it tbh
Have read all of Doyle's Sherlock Holmes and probably others as well, just never bothered to put them in to amazon or goodreads, so dates wrong. Some KU some paperback some hardback some collections.
Spuren im Moor (The Priory School, Mai 1901) Ein Zimmer in Bloomsbury (The Red Circle, September 1902) Die drei Giebel (The Three Gables, Mai 1903) Ein unheimliches Paket (The Cardboard Box, August / September 1889) Das leere Haus (The Empty House, April 1894) Die gefährliche Erbschaft (The Norwood Builder, August 1895) Der einsame Radfahrer (The Solitary Cyclist, April 1895) Der schwarze Peter (Black Peter, Juli 1895) Ein ganz einfacher Fall (The Crooked Man, September 1889) Das Geheimabkommen (The Naval Treaty, Juli / August 1889) Sechsmal Napoleon (The Six Napoleons, Juni 1900) Der tote von Abbey Grange (The Abbey Grange, Januar 1897) Der zweite Fleck (The Secound Stain, Oktober 1886) Das gefleckte Band (The Speckled Band, April 1883) Das Haus bei den Butbuchen (The Copper Beeches, April 1889)Ich habe dieses Buch in zwei Etappen gelesen.
My Dear WatsonThe greatest detective of all times...Sherlock Holmes!Reading books which were written a long time ago always make me wonder about that particular period of time. For example:Did they already have telephones in 18something?How did Holmes make a living, charges are only vaguely mentioned, I think. (Could one earn money by owning property as was the case in Jane Austen times, if I remember correctly?)Is it What’s up with the women?I like his stick/ cane whatever, how did it look, was it made of wood, metal, silver?and so on...
very simple but has interesting short stories
Just five short stories, Still good enough.
وقتي كلاس زبان مي رفتم اين شورت استوري را انتخاب كردم براي اينكه داستان هاي هولمز هميشه جذاب بود اما از بد حادثه انتخاب سطح بالايي بود و چيز زيادي از ماجرا دستگيرم نشد حتما سطح كتاب را در نظر بگيريد
i like this adventure and thoughtful story;also like Holmes Character that he is so thoughtful and always look around carefully and fixed the all pieces of the cake together as soon as possible ...
