https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146108.King_Ottokar_s_Sceptre
Le sceptre d'Ottokar = King Ottokar’s Sceptre (Tintin #8), HergéKing Ottokar's Sceptre (French: Le Sceptre d'Ottokar) is the eighth volume of The Adventures of Tintin, the comics series by Belgian cartoonist Hergé.
بوردوریایی‌ها به کمک جاسوسان خود موفق به دزدیدن عصای پادشاه سیلداویا شده، شاه را مجبور به استعفا می‌نمایند؛ ولی در نهایت تن‌ تن موفق به برگرداندن عصا به سیلداویا می‌شود.
King Ottokar’s Sceptre is one of only two Tintin books I surprisingly never read as a kid (the other being In the Land of the Soviets) and, having read it now, I can say I didn’t miss out on anything back then!
Tintin stumbles across another witless old geezer who’s inexplicably a professor (he seems to attract this type likes flies!) and gets involved with what he’s doing in Syldavia because there wouldn’t be a book otherwise!This one feels like Herge on autopilot.
Tintin finds a briefcase in his local park that belongs to a Professor of sigillograpy, the study of seals - the stampy kind, not the animals.
The Professor os travelling to the Eastern European country of Sylvia to study royal seals and Tintin accompanies him on the trip.
Only Tintin, Thomson and Thompson can save the day, albeit with a lot of screw ups and a lot of narrow escapes.
But it is still fun Tintin, just not the best.
Must have been to dog AA.A nice little predictable Tintin that is good, but not great.
These adventure get more and more funny... King Ottokar's Scepter recovery had a main role for Milu! But in order to find out which exactly, you will have to read the book! Tin-tin goes on in his globe trotter activities, where he is also forced to face danger and malevolence... And our already customary friends, the Dupond and Dupont, continue to be completely absent minded, falling over and tripping all over the place and never understanding things at first sight...Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 7 January 2015.
از خوب های تن تن است. هم معقول شروع می شود، هم معماهای جذاب زیاد دارد واشارات سیاسی مناسبی هم در آن گنجانده شده.
Our first journey into Syldavia5 February 2012 There have been some who have suggested that this album is where Tintin is finally developed, though as I have suggested, I consider that album to be the Cigars of the Pharaoh. This album though develops a number of elements that are going in reappear in later albums, the most important being the country of Syldavia, as well as introducing the Milanese Nightingale, Bianca Castafiore. Syldavia is a fictional country that Herge developed, and I suspec
This album though develops a number of elements that are going in reappear in later albums, the most important being the country of Syldavia, as well as introducing the Milanese Nightingale, Bianca Castafiore.
Syldavia is a fictional country that Herge developed, and I suspect that it was so that he could move away from the criticism doesn't truly understanding other cultures.
I originally believed that Syldavia and Borovia were supposed to represent Eastern and Western Europe, however having noted that this album was completed in 1939, before Europe was split between the Eastern and Western block, I suspect that there is a little more to it.
irst published in French in 1939, and written at the time that Europe was under the thumb of totalitarianism: Hitler, Mussolini, and Stalin.Tintin is taken through a sequence of strange vents to the mythical Kingdom of Syldavia, which we learn much about in this book.
The drawings and information which bring this country to life : a combination between Zenda and Albania , are amazing .A plot by Fascists based in neighboring Borduria is hatched to unseat King Muskar, involving the seizure of the symbol of the Syldavian monarchy, the mediaeval King Ottokar's Scepter.Tintin is called to the rescue.
Once more these charming comics are an interesting commentary on events at the time, through the eyes of Herge.
Since i am living wit a cute Shih Tzu girl Snowy is my principal actor in these comics. Excellent how Herge draws attention to that lovely dog! Of course i like tintin with his knickebockers too very much. As i was in the age of 8 to 10 years, we boys used to wear such knickebockers in wintertime! (* in the 50's)Struppi-Milou-Snowy for ever!http://espacemilou.over-blog.com/albu...
#36 for 2018Genre: Children ComicDi buku ini Madame Castafiore muncul.
Interesting book!! Very nicely narrated!! The book has some stuff which is not needed!! It gives some boredom feeling to the reader! The plot begins to unfold slowly but it can be guessed quite well by a regular reader!!Certainly not the best of the franchise but a good read is definitely assured!!
thompson and thomson steal the ending
'k Weet niet wie 't taaltje heeft bedacht van dit album, maar 't heeft iets.
I felt Ottokar’s Sceptre was ‘only’ good rather than great.It’s not that there are any clear faults – and we’re treated to another absent-minded professor, as Herge continued to warm up for Calculus’ eventual appearance – but the adventure was missing some tension for me.
Perhaps Herge put more effort into creating the warring countries in the story as stand-ins for Germany and Austria?Still, no Tintin adventure is terrible and this one is notable for the first appearance of Bianca Castafiore and her…powerful voice.
Beneath each vividly drawn and colored panel is a moral about the way the world lived in 1950.In this chapter, Herge creates two fictional Eastern European countries and weaves an intricate plot about rebellious revolution and an attemped at forced abdication.
To gain a common man's perspective of the way they lived then, try re-visiting it through block lettering, bright colors and a boy reporter with a little tuft of hair.
If my memory is correct this is the first TinTin book I read. I still can remember being lost within the pages of this book as a small child (I think I couldn't even read then). I loved the part when TinTin's plane was shot down and snowy walking down the red carpet majestically with the sceptre held in its mouth.
Tintin get again in trouble after finding a briefcase on a bench in the gardens. Tintin thinks that the main character Professor to whom the briefcase belonged, was kidnapping and the one Tintin accompanied to the mythical Balkan country is a clone. After a rough landing, getting in prison, falling in a trap, getting in trouble multiple times he investigates the robbery of King's sceptre. My favorite scenes the one's with Snowy, especially when it walks on red carpet with the sceptre held in its mouth.
Seems like a very typical Tintin book, not that that's a bad thing. Tintin helps prevent a plot to overthrow the current King of a fictional Eastern European country. Many hijinks and misadventures happen along the way in the typical Herge fashion.
En af min ynglings-Tintin.

I love Tintin and grew up reading all the books - but in Swedish.
This is one of the more interesting and complex Tintin books but still one of my least favorite stories.
I love how Hergés adventures are so tied down in the real world with its complicated politics.
This book takes place in Syldavia, one of two made-up countries in an otherwise very real world Tintin inhabits.
The author's personal political and societal preferences are made quite clear in the way Syldavia is set up and it's quite amusing to read 50+ years after it was written.
Lovely!
Another enjoyable but ultimately disappointing adventure with Tintin.
There are essentially three problems with this tale.
The story is a cliché, the bumbling comic figures are not amusing and are a distraction since they barely figure in the plot, and an adventure this big needs more telling.
More time was needed away from Tintin to show what was happening in other places with other characters for this tale to reach its potential.
On the plus side are a likeable style and some really lovely art and coloring.
This one really only deserves 2 stars, but I like it well enough for 3.
Oh for the good ol' times of visa-less travel!! Especially to made-up East European countries.The plot is more mystery solving. Bianca Castafiore is a riot. Snowy starts playing a more prominent role as Tintin's sidekick. The rest is predictably, coincidentally, stumbly, Tintin!
Δίνει εντυπωσιακά την ατμόσφαιρα του μεσοπολέμου και της επέκτασης της Γερμανίας σε βάρος των γειτόνων της. Δεν έχει όμως το σουρεαλιστικά παιχνιδιάρικο ύφος άλλων έργων της πρώτης εποχής (Πούρα του Φαραώ, το Σπασμένο Αυτί) και στέκεται με υπερβολικά πολύ σεβασμό στον βασιλιά της Συλδαβίας
In this book, Tintin is swept into an intriguing case in a mythical Balkan-like country. The adventure is also a satire on fascism, as Herge takes a swipe on Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union for their aggression and bellicose behavior in those days.
Primeiro livro de Tintin lido na sua versão original, uma experiência que irei certamente repetir. Sempre gostei destas aventuras, e depois desta experiência, fiquei ainda com mais vontade de ler (e reler) os restantes livros desta coleção.
A good translation into Swedish from the original French edition.
এই বইয়ে এক ফোঁটাও এমন কিছু নাই যেটা আমি অপছনদ করেছি। :)
এই বইয়ে এক ফোঁটাও এমন কিছু নাই যেটা আমি অপছন্দ করেছি। :)
The first half of this book could be called "The many captures and escapes of TinTin"- it's basically a sequence of the young protagonist falling into one trap after another and getting out of it through a lucky stroke more than anything to do with his brains.
The story picks up eventually once he finally gets to Syldavia, a fictional pastiche of Poland and Turkey which is rather interesting, and examined in detail for historic parallels in the version of the story that I have.
I for one found out that apparently Sigillography, is the study of seals.
This story runs along typical Tintin lines with the usual combination of outrageous fortune, perennial suspicion and multiple coincidences driving the action forward.
This was an enjoyable enough read, but I wouldn’t say it was particularly great, for my money of the first eight books, “Cigars of The Pharaoh” would still be my favourite, probably followed by “The Blue Lotus”.
xDMe faltó postear este review el mismo día que lo terminé y fue el mismo día que lo inicie ><Como es usual, nuestro intrépido periodista Tintin y su fiel compañero Milu, se encuentran con un extraño profesor que estudia sellos, de los cuales tiene uno que tiene una historia particular sobre un cetro de Ottokar.
Todo sale de maravillas y nuestro reportero se hace de nuevos aliados.Dios, todo esto de que le creen o no a Tintin, es super estresante en todo el capitulo.Una vez mas reitero que quiero un Milu para llevarlo por ahi en mis aventuras *-* ♥5 de 5 like usual, Herge :D
