https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1454552.A_Hermit_in_the_Himalayas
A truly absorbing, beautiful little book that takes you into the very heart of the tranquility of the Himalayas at a time before the conquest of Everest.This is Paul Brunton's journel of his time in search of stillness; the inner silence of a higher state meditation.
Another on silent movies and Charlie Chaplin, that lovable funny character of the silent era.I loved this little book, only 192 pages - but it has a very big heart!
This book is one of the most spiritually enlightening book that I have come across. If I would have read it even a year back, I don't think I would have been able to grasp its message. As it is, reading it once was not enough. I want to re-read it.It is a journey of a man in a quest for spiritual peace which he quite successfully achieves. The best part about this book is its language. Paul Brunton has set the standard so high that I worry if any other author will be able to compete with him.
Paul Brunton was born in London in 1898 and died in Switzerland as recently as 1981. This book is part travelogue through what is still a fairly remore region of the world and part spiritual experience. The book was originally published in 1938, at a time when few outsiders ventured as far as Mount Kailas.For more reviews, essays and stories, please visit my website:Serendipities of a Writer's Life www.dennisonberwick.info

Paul Brunton's spiritual desire reflects in this book.
I quiet enjoyed his description about Tibet and it's secluded notions.
Not sure why my thoughts go frenzy when i read about Tibet.
Being still is his motive and that leads him to withdraw from the society for a while.Mention about Thiruvannamalai, Bodhidharman during 1850 gives me goose bumps, that too by a westerner.
He acknowledges the fact the men with real power does exist with no signficance in the society and that's their prerogative.
They never wish to show-off.Just like Sanga tamil sends me roundabouts, feel the same way while reading this book sometimes.
"A vacuidade espiritual da nossa época e a pobreza dos nossos recursos interiores expressam-se de modo suficiente claro no caos, na angústia que vemos por toda a parte e na dolorosa subserviência dada a ideais indignos e homens indignos".Dificilmente não gostaria de um livro sobre ioga, meditação e espiritualidade. É uma obra que vale a pena ler, pois não se aproxima dos livros inóspitos de auto-ajuda. De qualquer forma julgo que poderia ser mais completa e abrangente. Fiquei com curiosidade de ler mais livros do mesmo autor.
One would read another's journal either out of curiosity about the writer or about the writers research pursuit. For me it was latter. Though the two are tightly intertwined. It's a great treatise on spiritual pursuit and of the beauty and lure of the Himalayas. It is also too detailed at times, which I don't have the wisdom yet to truly savor. I am grateful to have come across Paul's writings.
Paul has very beautifully described the immense beauty and grandeur of the Himalayas. One feels like packing his bags right away and make to the Himalayas when reading this masterpiece of a sojourn journal.
the himalayas... only place of serenity and peace..
