https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/662597.Cut
Honestly, she seemed ridiculous from the very beginning (I don't know why I didn't put the book down then, but I had hoped that maybe some sort of personality would shine through, just a little trace of it).
By the end of this short and flimsy book, one actually feels unsatisfied and disgusted (but maybe this is just me?
Personally, I believe that this is quite a serious subject, and not one of those little silly teenage problems, so to speak.
In my opinion, based on my experiences and the reasons behind my cutting, I will say that a good 98% of this book is either a heavily glossed over version of what cutting and self-injury is really about or Patricia McCormick's complete inability to understand cutting despite a supposed three years of research.Secondly, Callie's character had actual potential, which is possibly one of the saddest things about the whole disappointment we're calling a book.
In those three years did she never look up an article or pick up a book about dissociation or dissociative identity disorders?Thirdly, cutting is a much more intense experience than McCormick is able to describe.
I was incredibly surprised when I heard that the author has never self-harmed, I really was, it was like reading my own story.
If you have troubles with self harm, it's a must read, it makes you realize you're not alone with your feelings, but most importantly, this book can help you take that first and most difficult step: It can help you understand that you are worth the recovery.
For me, this book became personal and like I said, no love story, no huge drama, and yet, it was life changing for me.
I honestly hope that this book will inspire more people like myself.
I read that the author researched for 3 years before writing this book.
Now is that violating GR's terms since I mentioned the author?
Heck it's to the point where I don't know how to review a book anymore.
I guess since I'm giving it 2 stars (which is not horrible) it's ok?
Maybe if the book was longer?
I've read shorter books though that got their point across better.
It just seems that cutting isn't really delved into in this book.Ok, so I'm going to run hide now because I cringe now every time I review a book.
Reviewed by Cana Rensberger for TeensReadToo.comCUT is an amazing first novel by Patricia McCormick that offers a glimpse inside the mind of a 15-year-old girl who cuts herself.
Callie now resides at Sea Pines with several other girls seeking treatment for a myriad of other disorders.
But Callie doesn't share.
But they know nothing about this girl who won't talk.
Many, like Callie, don't even know themselves why they do it.
If you know someone who cuts, share this book with them.
This is a gusty novel that you won't want to put down until you're sure Callie is safe.
I find it very strange that Patricia McCormick spent three years of her life doing research for a 151-page book that really had no detail, description, story line, or character development of any kind.
Callie is a fifteen year-old cutter who is a patient at Sea Pines, but half of the time I was reading I forgot that she was in treatment for cutting because most of the book is centered around her social inabilities.
The book ends with Callie coming to some sort of realization and "going down to [her therapist's] office first thing in the morning and tell[ing her] everything." That was literally the last line.
I remember reading this book when I was eleven or so, and I found it really interesting. The way it's written [the main character speaks in a way that she addresses You yourself, as if you're her counselor] sort of just sucks you in, and you sort of find yourself in Callie's head, seeing things the way she sees them.I read this book back when I was a normal little kid, too. The subject matter didn't really bother me then I guess, because it's really, really a fascinating book.
To think that her troubles would stop there, she's sent to Sea Pines or what she calls "Sick Minds", an institution for depressed and troubled teens like herself.
At Sea Pines, the author is confined in a small hospital room and she goes to group therapy where she talks to other teen patients that are there due to their own personal problems such as anorexia, bulimia, and drug abuse.
That's why Patricia McCormick wrote the book "Cut" to encourage teens that are in the same situation to stop and seek help.
When she flashes back to memories before she was in "Sick Minds" she basically just talks about how she'd always have to be quiet when Sam and her mom were resting, and her dad wasn't around much.
They have serious issues while Callie just decided not to talk and felt the need to cut herself every now and then.
But I can't help but wish this same book was written with one of the other girls at "Sick Minds" as the main character, and maybe by a different author as well.
I waited the entire book for some big twist.
Callie is in a treatment facility because she is lost in her own depression and anxiety to the point that she's completely mute and self harms.
The whole time I'm waiting to hear the details of why and how she's fallen into this pit of despair.
What horrible traumatic event did she go through?
Was she attacked?
Abused?
Had some horrible accident?
Survivors guilt?
(view spoiler)[her brother has asthma (hide spoiler)].
That's simplifying it a bit but seriously.
Break it down and that's what you get.
This book is obviously called "Cut." if you like drama and detailed writing, this is the book for you!
I do not recomend it to younger viewers.
It is about a girl who cuts her wrists to replace her emotional pain with physical pain.
She also never talks.
After her mom found out she was cutting her wrists, she was sent to a place for people who are, Physicaly hurting themselves, Anorexic and other illnesses.
After a month or two she finds ways to cut herself while she is there...
And she begins to talk a little.
This book is awesome!
I have read a lot of mental illness books this year and this one was something I could totally relate to.
This display of self hurt reflected the pain I felt on the inside.In the book Callie is placed in a hospital for teens with behavioral issues.
If you don't say anything you can't get in trouble.The book is just about Callie and her life at the hospital, the other girls that are there and Callie's road to recovery.
To know that it isn't her fault and to be okay with not taking the blame.
It's okay to say I don't know.
Wow - this book is such a package for being such a short read.
The main protaginist is Callie - a fifteen year old girl who suffers from an addiction that makes her cut herself.
I would give the book a 3.5, or some score that was over three but below four, however, because the site doesn't allow it I'll have to settle at three.
One thing is that this book really doesn't portray the actual cutting too well, but, it does provide for a very emotionally touching story.
I can really relate to calli, the main character in the book. She is fighting a mental illness and so do I ! It's like this book was about me, besides the cutting, this book was pretty good!
I had heard a lot about this book before I read it, even before I had heard of booktube/goodreads and equivalent sites.
One half of my dual major is psychology, so I was hoping for a good explanation on the mental health topics covered in it; also coming from a perspective of going through some of the things in this book as well, and I wanted a book to relate to in some way shape or form.
I'd say that is the last thing you want to hear about book characters, especially ones meant to have any sort of impact on the reader.
Callie's parents sent her to a residential treatment facility to try to get her to stop cutting herself.
Not until another girl checks in who also likes cutting herself, but this time in a different way.
The other girls at the treatment facility are, Amanda, Becca, Tara, Debbie, Sydney and Tiffany.
Becca, Tara, and Debbie all have eating problems.
Even though she's at the treatment facility Becca refuses to get help.
In the book Tara helps Callie, and becomes good friends with her.
In the book Debbie feels that she has to take care of Becca.
Sydney, Callie's best friend there has a drug problem.
A girl cuts herself and ends up in this clinic.
She stays quiet for along time and the people from the clinic tries to kick her because they say she doesnt have insurance money but the girl thinks because she does not talk to no one.
Then she cuts herself badly and goes to her counclier and finally starts talking to her counclier.
I learned that sometimes when lifes not going good and that when you talk to people about your problems helps more than keeping it inside you still have to strive for the best set your goals so you can become better than what you are.
داستان درباره دختری که خودش را با تیغ و چاقو و چیزهای برنده زخمی می کنه و به یک مرکز برده میشه تا ازلحاظ روحی درمان بشه و اونجا افراد مشکل دار دیگه ای هم هستند مثلا نوجوانان معتاد یا افراد دچار سوءتغذیه که به انورکسی مبتلا شدند.
داستان بیشتر دور این حول میزنه که به نوجوانان یاد بده که باید به دنبال بهتر شدن و درخواست کمک باشند.البته تو ریویوهای افرادی که دچار مشکلی زخمی کردن و اسیب رسوندن به خودشون بودند، به نظرشون این کتاب مزخرف بوده و هیچ کمکی به اون ها نکرده.
خوب این کتاب هیچ راه درمانی ارائه نداده.
فقط یاداوری کرده به دنبال درمان باشند.برای نوجوانان مشکل دار کتاب خوبی میتونه باشه
i'm a sucker for the second person, so i think that i enjoyed the book more than i would have otherwise.
i'm especially a sucker for second person when relating to a therapist, so this was kind of tailored for me.
the reasoning behind her cutting was vague and, i thought, a little trite when she was so clearly capable of more.
then again, this is YA so maybe she thought she had to dumb it down a little - which i think is a total flaw.
(also, i loved the little detail that callie focused on - her therapist's shoes, for example.
The general idea of this book was a good one.
I, myself struggle with the problem in this book.
The fact that the author had to research for this book makes me angry.
I heard a lot of good things about this book but, when I read it I got very frustrated.
People who struggle with self harm usually go for sharper objects..just saying.
She cut herself all because she thought it was her fault that her family was falling apart and her brother had asthma.
People can't cause asthma.
Yet again, another unrealistic part of the story.
I just finished this right before bed and i can't decide what rating to give it.
Maybe a high 3?
I liked how it showed an inner look at mental illness and self destruction.
I think it would help lots of people understand how hard it is and maybe have more respect for those who self harm.
I loved the writing and Callie.
Those who self harm don't do it for attention.
As the book showed they do it to let out inner feelings that they are trying to cope with.
I hope Callie stops just like i did.
Well, there was some good stuff and some bad stuff.
Good: interesting characters (particularly fellow patients at Sea Pines), Callie's life story is relatively original, perspective is interesting, at some point becomes hard to put down, good ending...
For example, the fact that she was in Sea Pines in the first place was just not true to real life.
It could have easily been applied to a variety of other teenage mental issues, like eating disorders, substance abuse, anger management...
I felt like the issue itself was not really addressed at all.Overall, It was a reasonably good book.
Books like this are often read by people who are suffering from the same pain as the main character and maybe in some cases it is comforting or cathartic to read about a similar situation.
But even if that is the case I still think it's difficult to identify with the main character.
But she is attention-seeking in her silent-treatment behavior and the progress she makes in the facility sounds superficial.But I may be too close to the issue to judge this book without bias.
You're probably thinking "out of all the people that Callie has met, you choose the Dunkin' Donut waitress?" Of course, because this one stranger helps Callie realize that she needs to get better.
Whereas people such as her doctors and therapists, have not once convinced Callie that Sea Pines is the place she needs to be.
After running away from Sea Pines, in the pouring rain none the less, she finds herself dripping wet in a booth at Dunkin Donuts.
She sits down with her and lets Callie conflide in her until Callie realizes that she needs to go back.
A few years ago, I tried to explain the life of a cutter to a friend.
He didn't understand why they would do it, what they get out of it, why they can't just stop and they aren't crazy or suicidal.
This book needs to be read by so many, especially those that cut, that they know they are not alone and they can get help and with some work, get better.
For many, they are ashamed of what they are doing but can't stop and don't know where to turn with so many people not understanding.
Trigger Warnings for the book: self-harm, eating disorders, substance abusePros: The therapist actually acts like a therapist, and a good one at that. Mental health is depicted realistically and respectfully. This was an engaging and enlightening read that felt a little bit like a mystery.Cons: None?(In my video review I answer the questions "does it represent/portray well?", "did it make me think?" "does it perpetuate healthy ideals", "how was the writing?", "did I enjoy reading it", and "what do I think it accomplished best?": https://youtu.be/NbeqdXx5V1Q?t=5m5s)
Your typical “what not to do” warning story.
I honestly don't know if it's necessary to say more, but I'll try.
This is yet another poorly-researched book that doesn't try to be anything more than an issues book.
It shows some teenagers who have done something wrong, sensationalizes that bad thing, and tells you not to do that thing.
Never does it try for character work, development, or even a sensible plot.
The main character is unforgivably flat.
In such a book, we need to see why the main character is cutting.
Frankly, without development, this book veers on the side of offensive drivel.
My God is this book boring. The main character is one dimensional, completely flat. I cared about the supporting characters infinitely more than I cared about her. The ending is anticlimactic and extremely predictable. I knew what the last line would be within the first 20 pages. Yawn.
9th book read in 2015.Number 12 out of 437 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vaq5w...
Wow. Ouch. My. Flipping. Feelings.
