https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/936055.The_Way
I liked this book. It has small points that make you think about your relationship with God and with others. While the author is a Catholic priest, I think some of the points in it are suitable to everyone (non Catholic and non Christian). It's a great book to just dip in and out of.
I have a certain critical spirit that tempts me to write, "This book was nothing but a series of short sayings—even platitudes!—without context and without explanation." In a certain sense this is true, but I can not deny the fruit these wise sayings bore in prayer over the week that I read this little book.There is nothing new in Escrivá: his mystical theology is that of Teresa and his advice on the apostolate will be a review for those who have read Dom Chautard.
Daily meditations. This book contains daily meditations of "how to" live by the founder of Opus Dei, Josemaria Escriva. If you are looking for fluff, forget it. This is perfect for Lectio Divina or to read after praying Compline.
Straight forward, thought provoking meditations. Love this book :)
Maravilloso. Deo gratias.
loads of spiritual vitamins...recommended for daily use :-)
Duže vrijeme ovu sam knjigu imala na umu da je pročitam, no nikako da se sretnemo. Ne znam jesam li ja ili pak ona čekala pravi trenutak ali jedno je sigurno, "Put" je pronašao najljepši put do mene, iz ruku drage osobe. Uz radost zbog potonjeg i unutarnjeg mira kojim me ispunila i utjehu koju mi je pružila, zauzela je jedinstveno mjesto među knjigama. Zlatna kategorija: knjiga koja jest ili hoće (ovisi o meni) promijeniti moj život.
Maraming luma na dahil matanda pa ang librong ito sa akin at siguro isinulat o naisip niya ito noong panahong pari siya sa Espana.
Maaring taliwas sa turo ng Bibliya o Simbahang Katoliko pero kapag iniisip ko, mag matimbang na dapat bigyan ang tao ng karapatang mag-isip kung ano ang makakabuti sa kanyang sarili (free will) dahil ito naman talaga ang nais ng Diyos na gawin natin.
Dahil bakla o tomboy ang isang tao, hindi na siya maaring maging malaya?
Pero dapat magtiis dahil nakalaan lamang ang kanilang pagmamahal sa Diyos.
Mayroong 999 na ganito sa libro pero ito lang ang tumatak sa akin.
Nasehat-nasehatnya tegas, tanpa tedeng aling-aling, dan pendek-pendek sehingga praktis tetapi bisa direnungkan mendalam.
Sayangnya, awalnya saya agak curiga karena buku ini ditulis oleh pendiri Opus Dei. Ya jujur waktu itu saya abis keracunan The Da Vinci Code-nya Dan Brown, jadi di benak saya, Opus Dei itu semacam perkumpulan terlarang.
Opus Dei adalah prelatur personal, seperti ordo atau kongregasi religius tetapi yurisdiksinya terbatas pada pribadi masing-masing (makanya disebut "personal").
Ga ada hubungannya dengan konsfirasi aneh-aneh seperti di Da Vinci Code.Sulit untuk menuliskan review buku ini karena topiknya banyak dan terlalu profound untuk saya bahas secara adil di sini.
Este libro es una joya.
Se trata de una serie de 999 puntos para meditar y mejorar en tu vida espiritual, agrupados según temas y con un buenísimo índice, lo que hace mucho más sencillo buscar aquellos puntos de meditación que más necesitas en un momento dado.
Todo tipo de temas importantes para el desarrollo interior del cristiano.
Este es uno de esos libros que hay que degustar poco a poco.
Una vez terminado, pasar a otro punto.
Sacar todo el jugo a cada reflexión.
Un jugo que podría cambiarte la vida, abrirte los ojos, llenarte de alegría...
A modern spiritual classic. Read properly (as suggested in the preface) this little book can be a spiritual guide to the interior life.
Put yourself in the presence of God, and as soon as you have said, “Lord I don’t know how to pray!” You can be sure you’ve already begun.”On penance - “Say to your body: “I would rather keep you in slavery than be myself your slave.”On resolutions - “Tomorrow!” Sometimes it is prudence; many times it is the adverb of the defeated.”On supernatural life - “Aspiration: that I be good, and everyone else be better than I!”On study - “Whoever gives himself to work for Christ cannot expect to have a free moment, for even to rest is not to do nothing: it is to relax with activities that require less effort.”On sanctity - “So you failed?
Я дочитав ту книгу нині. Але звертатимусь до неї ще багато разів, можливо, впродовж всього життя. Це дійсно настояний концентрат духовних порад, які потрібно втілювати в життя.Ця книга охоплює широкий спектр духовних питань: для осіб богопосвячених і для світських.Шлях Хосемарії Ескріви - це шлях борця, воїна, пепримиренного і нон-комформістського. По-молодечому радикального і по-старечому досвідченого.
Classic Spiritual Reading that Engenders PrayerThe author speaks to you as if you were the only one in the room. The direct approach keeps you focused. The style is to be read in small chunks. Daily, read just a few points and consider them in the presence of God in silent prayer. Saint Josemaria writes for the busy professional, worker, and those who seek to learn how to bring their Christian faith to their friends.
I have been slowly but surely meditating over these short meditations for the last few years. I could have gone through them much more quickly, but they are very rich and challenging in their meaning. Important read for those looking to take up their daily cross and follow Him.
The Way is a book about the the way of the cross that helps you meditate on Jesus' passion. I think Josemaría is a great author because he wrote so much books that he wrote nicely. The Way of the Cross will help you meditate, pray and think about the Passion well.
Exceptional daily reading full of encouragement more than any modern purveyor of 'daily affirmations' might offer.
i think that i can understand what the author book's mean:)
3.5
Love!
The book is really amazing.
This is one of the most beautiful books that I have ever read. It is a spiritually motivating book with Latin bible quotes. I am compelled to attend church and find more catholic books to read!
Topics are straight to the heart.
http://newasymptotes.blogspot.com/201...
Kokia graži knyga... Vis verčiu ir verčiu iš naujo, vis randu kokį paslėptą lobį, vėl ir vėl.
My uncertainty had not so much to do with the work itself as with the bad press received by the organization he founded, the Opus Dei. No matter how hard you try to push that organization's(founded or unfounded) notoriety to the background, it does colour your opinion of the book.
Josemaría's message appeals above all to men, who are his primary audience in this book.
For Josemaría, the doctrine of incarnation means that God is to be found in things that to us seem ordinary or even banal.
Just as Jesus was God's all-seeing eye incarnate, so to speak, so are priests today.
Memorable ones...* 54 'One must compromise!' Compromise is a word found only in the vocabulary of those who have no will to fight - the lazy, the cunning, the cowardly - for they consider themselves defeated before they start.* 204 Many who would willingly let themselves be nailed to a cross before the astonished gaze of a thousand onlookers cannot bear with a Christian spirit the pinpricks of each day!
Think, then, which is the more heroic.* 362 I have no need for miracles: there are more than enough for me in Scripture.
But I do need to see you fulfilling your duty and responding to grace.
The summary: forget pride, do your duty, sanctify every aspect of every-day life by turning it towards God.
St.Josemaria Escriva delivers yet another spiritually titillating treatise on a sure way, what he calls "The Way" to a finding Christ.
Each chapter is broken down into quips or proverbs and is great for daily reflection.
It's not meant to be read like a normal book but rather searched through like a dictionary/encyclopedia i.e. you search your inquiry, pertaining to the topic at hand and then peruse through the chapter until you find a suitable adage.
I highly, highly recommend this book if you've never read Escriva or you want to read a book on classic Wisdom.
"I won't tell you anything new.
I will only stir your memory, so that some thought will arise and strike you; and so you will better your life and set out along ways of prayer and of Love." - EscrivaThe first of his collections of aphorisms (or proverbs), there is nothing new but reflection on these points over a few months (2-4 pages/day was my pace) is like a gentle watering of the soul allowing hard, stubborn ground to become soft, fertile earth.
A very direct and unpretentious delivery is at first unexpected but becomes quite natural, like listening to advice from an old friend (what else are saints but old friends?).
Highly recommended.
The way begins and ends with love. Helpful short bursts of meditation and wisdom, perfect for the holy hour in front of the blessed sacrament. One must not only read it but pray it as well. I recommend a prayer between pages or even between anecdotes.
