https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170501.The_Dreadful_Lemon_Sky
McGee is going to give the money to her sister, Susan, but before that happens he and Meyer must discover if Carrie’s death in Bayside was actually an accident.
They’ve been following Cal’s trail of drunken violence all night, which includes a pizza guy’s broken arm, and three truckers in the hospital, beaten senseless by Cal. McGee doesn’t press charges because Cindy Birdsong asks him not to, even thanks him later.McGee uses his wiles to discover that Jack Omaha and his partner Harry were having affairs with the help — the help being Carrie and Joanna.
Seeking someone to corroborate his version of events in case the law moves in, McGee seeks out his friend Meyer, an acerbic retired economist, on the beach to discuss.Meyer was curious about the money, so I described the stacks to him, each neatly tied with a white cotton string, each of mixed denominations, each totaling ten thousand.
I know it’s the old Sea Cock Travis McGee we’re talking about here, but this is a whole new low….Hang on.
They had every chain food-service outfit known to man, interspersed with used-car lots and furniture stores."This is what a Travis McGee book reads like when it’s firing on all cylinders.
That could have been played as him looking out for her because she’s just so overcome with grief, but Travis and the funeral director have to go in the other room without her because obviously it’s man talk.
MacDonald, The Dreadful Lemon SkyThis is JDM's 16th Travis MCGee novel.
It is right in the middle of MacDonald's McGee years (1964-1984), published in 1974.
It is weird to think this book is as old as I am.
I both feel old and young.
It has some of the best McGee traits (plot, maxims, villans, etc) and worst (sexism in all its varieties and shades).
As I say that I keep thinking of James Bond movies, rock groupies, and Charlies Angels.
I positive MacDonald used it as marketing (much like with 007) BECAUSE it worked.
McGee is awoken in the middle of the night by Carrie Milligan, an acquaintance of six years back, arriving with a shoe box under her arm stuffed with a little over $100,000.
There were structural reasons to establish animosity between these two characters while withholding a physical confrontation, but clearly it doesn’t work.The rest of the novel works to perfection.
For the rest he uses what little he’d learned from Carrie.
The Dreadful Lemon Sky delivers on mystery, character, drama, action and romance.The only real negative is so small that it can’t diminish a Goodreads five-star rating.
Now with this here novel, with The Dreadful Lemon Sky, with this sixteenth instalment of Travis MgGee, his adventures and yes, also often his mishaps, I do consider it rather special because it was the first book by the author I read, namely the one novel of the series that our teacher had included in the reading list and made us read in grade eight, and it therefore holds a special place in my heart for introducing me to Travis McGee, to Meyer, to Meyer's genius and sweetness of character, but I do not really consider it an absolute and always enduring personal favourite.
This was my first reading of John MacDonald's work and please don't ask me why because I don't know. This book was published in 1974 and reads as a still current novel. I love the Travis McGee character. I now will need to start with this series from the beginning. Would highly recommend this book, series and author to others that enjoy Florida P.I. fiction.
I could not finish this book. But, I'll try John D. MacDonald again or better, Ross MacDonald--no relation as far as I know.
McDonald was one of the best. His Ft. Lauderdale is essentially gone, now, but in his day, (and a good bit of mine), it was a fascinating place and the livaboard community around Ft. Lauderdale Beach and the Las Olas area lent a unique and irreplaceable aura to a fascinating era. I speak from experience, having lived aboard a 38 foot sloop for about two years in a slip on Hendricks Isle. It's a rotten shame those days are gone forever, and the livaboard community with them.
A friend of Travis McGee appears in the middle of the night, asking him to keep a package for her and if she doesn't return for it, to make certain her sister gets it.
Travis McGee is a man wanting to withdraw from the world but is forever being pulled back into it by the people he calls friends, whether they are actually so, merely acquaintances for whom he has a certain emotional connection or the true kind with whom one somehow loses touch.
When I first read "The Dreadful Lemon Sky," I appreciated it as a well-written but ultimately depressing crime novel.
While the book mentions such artifacts as an orange Datsun, a yellow Gremlin, plaid pants, and "quadraphonic sound," it's ultimately (and to its credit) a story about human connections.
More specifically, "The Dreadful Lemon Sky" uses the investigation of a suicide-that-wasn't to explore why we make some connections and miss others.
Insight about human motivation often comes in musings by Travis McGee, the salvage consultant and part-time beach bum who plays detective-on-a-houseboat in this and other MacDonald novels.
It's always fun when reading John MacDonald's novels to see when and where he is going to incorporate the book's title into the story. This one came up unexpectedly. I'm not able to read the series chronologically....this is book 16. Oddly enough, this one doesn't make any references to people or places from past stories or experiences. It takes place in a different Florida location than his other stories that I have read. There were some twists and turns that kept it interesting. The writing, as usual, is excellent.
One of many John D. MacDonald's Travis McGee novels. They are a collection of exciting adventures taking place in South Florida. I have always thought that MacDonald was the Gary Grant of fast paced mystery books. He makes it look so easy but every one knows that there is a special art to writing that moves so smoothly across the page. If you want fun as well as some homespun philosphy, take a Travis McGee to the beach or any other vacation spot. You will not regret it.
Picked this up in a used bookstore. It was written in the '70s, book number 16 in John D MacDonald's Travis McGee series. I've read one other McGee book and enjoyed it. This one was great also. I miss Robert B. Parker and might start stocking up on this older MacDonald books. The slueths are somewhat similar. It's nice to read a mystery where you don't have to keep up with modern technology all the time. It didn't exist in the '70s. Just fun.
I liked this one quite a bit. There were multiple victims, and multiple criminals. The woman McGee worked for and the woman he slept with were not wholly innocent folks. They were complicated people, and McGee figures their whole mess out at great harm to himself (as usual.)Also, an introduction to fire ants, something we native Floridians can appreciate. Ouch!
This was the first of the Travis McGee books that I read. I loved it, read the rest of the series and moved to Florida.
This was the audio version of a title I read in my teens when I had a phase of interest in John D.
Robert Petkoff is the voice performer, and he displays excellent vocal range portraying McGee and the rest of the characters, including the female parts.
Brilliant!Like time-travelling back to the 1970s.
McGee closely resembles any number of rootless antiheros like Jack Reacher; indeed, he may well have created the genre, or at least evolved it forward from the Dashiell Hammet or Raymond Chandler period (Sam Spade, Philip Marlowe).The plot is twisty with plenty of motives and red-herrings to sort through.
3.5*
Another excellent addition to the Travis McGee series. In The Dreadful Lemon Sky McGee is given a large amount of money by a seemingly desperate old acquaintance with instructions to pass it on to her sister should she be killed. Shortly thereafter she is and McGee takes on board the job of investigating her death.It's on of the best plots so far of the series, multiple layers of scheming and motives.Ending was good and wound up all the plot threads.
Poor Carrie turns up suspiciously dead in a minor rural town, thus launching McGee & Meyer into full investigative motion with no realistic expectation of extra loot to be "salvaged." THE DREADFUL LEMON SKY doesn’t wrap up until seven dead bodies rather pointlessly litter the story.
However, the first cover I saw for THE DREADFUL LEMON SKY years ago--illustrating the later 1983 mass market paperback, also by Fawcett Books--had no pretty lady and a bunch of dumb stuff that’s not really in the book.
MacDonald McGee novels are the survivors, the keepers, the books that don’t get thrown out when I move and go through my library getting rid of the books I know I have no use for anymore.The basics of the plot here are standard McGee: one of Trav’s old Friends-with-Benefits playmates leaves a big gob of cash with him to hold for her secretly.
[evil Travis grin] They are going to be so sorry they ever messed with my Friend-With-Benefit!
I think he killed two friends of mine.
She was not ever a serious flame for McGee, but represented some strong chemistry with him over a short time frame.
He never asks where the money came from, but he soon has to find out, because the next day he learns that Carol was the victim of a hit-and-run on a nearby highway.
McGee and his buddy Meyer (who I think is often more interesting that Travis himself lots of times) take a closer look at the ‘accident’ site, and soon has an alternative theory as to her death.
This is a stellar page-turner in the Travis McGee series.
I'd been taking a break from Travis McGee, but I was missing him, so I pulled the next installment out of the box next to my nightstand.
I don't know if I've read too many TMcG books in too short a period of time, or if the author started relying too heavily on a formula when writing the books, but I'm not enjoying them the way I did at first.
Still, the dialogue, particularly between Travis and Meyer, is brilliant and hilarious.
I laughed out loud several times.
There wasn't any other choice.
Sometimes it is a relief not to have a choice.
I'm forty-four years old and I'm just now getting around to reading the McGee books.
He gets hired to find things that people have lost - so to speak.
Since this is my first McGee novel I have to say I can see why they were so popular with people.
McGee and Meyer are likable and the mystery ,while not super hard to figure out, does keep you going.
The book takes you to the place and you find yourself getting involved.
Therefore no surprise that I like this book and Travis McGee. I think I'll read a few more.
This novel was released in 1975, and is the sixteenth in the Travis McGee Series.An old friend of Travis's turns up on his houseboat, The Busted Flush, late one night with a suitcase full of money.
Soon Travis learns that his friend was involved in a drug trafficking operation, and her murder, and several others are linked to this drug network.
Someone is trying to wipe out their involvement by murdering all the co-conspirators, but who is behind this deadly cover-up?Every novel in the Travis McGee Series is well worth reading, and they are all examples of the very best of Crime Fiction.
This series was full of action, and to many puzzling crime was yet to be solve by McGee. Susan Dobrovsky arrived in town, and asked Travis to hide a hundred grand for her.
McGee, agreed for the old time friendship.
A few days later Susan died in an accident, and McGee thinks something rotten was going on.
With a hundred grand in his hands he must know.......why, and where did she get the huge amount of money as a secretary.
So, the part rebel, part philosopher, part genius, and a salvage consultant Travis McGee, will avenge their death.
The entire Travis McGee series is coming in e-book format in Jan. 2013.
The series, written mostly across the 1970s, inspired countless writers, including Dean Koontz, Carl Hiaason, Lee Child, Sue Grafton, and even Stephen King.MacDonald's writing is damned impressive.
Hippies on Florida beaches get sucked into a big operation smuggling marijuana; deaths ensue; and McGee and associated cops lament the involvement of "amateurs" in what they consider "a professional's game." Deaths over weed?
okay.Worth it for the prose styling and the startlingly prescient musings of McGee as he despises Florida developers trashing the Everglades, before there was an environmental movement.
As usual, McGee and Meyer did an excellent job of entertaining me as I chased sheep last night.
MacDonald's insights into Life - as presented through the mouths of his characters - are riveting.
I particularly enjoyed the the conversation between McGee and Meyer about "abstract death", somewhere around the fifth chapter.I didn't like the McGee girl in this book, but that had more to do with her personality than her development.
All of the other characters, major and minor, were well developed as well.All in all, it is a good book.
Not great, but good.
I was curious to see how well MacDonald held up, and remember this book from when it first appeared in 75.
Though McGee and Meyer are very conservative, when reading one book they don't seem as creaky as they did back when I used to read every one as it came out.
There are also passages in here that are nicely evocative, such as one where McGee is trying to fall asleep in his boat in an inlet, and he describes all the sounds and the feel of the water under the boat.
An entertaining book.
I started reading MacDonald's Travis McGee books when I was a young teacher in NC. I found a small stack at a yardsale and enjoyed the writing very much. I enjoyed this outing with Meyer and McGee, but not as much as I used to. Who changed? Probably me.
