https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296929.The_Life_and_Selected_Writings
Like Monticello, many of these writings are unfinished rough drafts for a larger autobiography that was never finished. As such, the prose stylings are more like notations and detailing of proper nouns and events than an attempt at narration. Nonetheless, it is an important collection of personal and journalistic accounts of events in Jefferson's life.
The 1944 edition is a relic all on its own, and worth the five stars from the stellar introduction by Koch and Peden. If you're trying to figure out what kind of man Jefferson was, the introduction, the autobiography, and the letters really give a three-dimensional look.
Even Jefferson's farts were genuis. Every word I read herein was a clinic in intellectual expression. Total opposite end of the spectrum from what we have now. Inspiring. What if we actually elected a president with living brain cells? Boggles the mind.
Politically, the greatest emphasis was on Jefferson's great support of the Republicans and populist interest in governing, in opposition to the one-term presidency of John Adams and Alexander Hamilton promoting a Federalist leaning of interpreting the constitution, which was elitist and did not trust the vote of the people.
Apparently the influence of the public vote favored Jefferson, as he served two terms for a total of eight years in the presidency, after John Adams was "turned out" after four years.

Provides a greater insight into his views, in the form of letters to a wide variety of persons, including John Adams.His views on blacks expressed in letters on p.544 and p.586 contradict the opinions of negativists who superficially view Jefferson and jump to conclusions.The Notes on Virginia is a geographical treatise on the state, p.177 on.Even his autobiography is included in this book.It should be required reading for all college students, to gain insight and background into a founder.
While challenging to read in the writing style of the 1700-1800's, it would have been a disservice to paraphrase as the text gives insight into the thinking of this man beyond the words. It amazed me at how many of his observations on government during the formative years are spot-on in many of today's current issues.Some of his letters expressed his fear and forboding of the development of a governmental aristocratic class, and it seems in some ways we have that today.This is an excellent exploration into the mind of one or our most influential Framers.
The more I read about Jefferson, the more I got to like him. His story and writing style are both quite interesting, but as it got on I found my interest waning once past the autobiography and into the various short documents of the public papers and letters.
Jefferson is one of my heroes. I've become an expert of sorts having 10 volumes on this great American. The only thing this Renaissance man seemed to lack was humor. This book has a selection of letters and writings that are quintessential to understanding the man rather than the myth.
I bought this book in Monticello. Its a great book
Excellent. Oh, the beauty of the prose! Includes the "Summary View of the Rights of British America", "Notes on Virginia", his letters, and others.
