https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/508957.The_12th_Planet
Also, the fact that I saw his name next to David Icke's a lot...To fully enjoy this book, you have to shake off all stereotypes and just absorb the words on the page, and if you're able to do that, there is no reason you shouldn't enjoy what you're reading.I thought this book was wonderful, informative and beyond interesting.
Whether you choose to believe any of it or not is irrelevant, the fact is, only a handful of people in the world are able to read these tablets.
I thought this one was great! At first I thought maybe the author was a bit off, with his extra planet theroy. But I was amazed at what I learned from this one. Mostly about how the Bible stories are in fact true, but based on MUCH older stories from an ancient Sumerian civilization. It is astonishing just how much these ancients recorded and how much they knew. How advanced they were! Where did all the intelligence go that those who came before us had? Hummmm makes a person wonder!
It's difficult for me to believe many of the theories laid out in this book as pure fact or non-fiction when the author doesn't site his sources on the ready as I'm reading.
If the author claims something seemingly outrageous as fact, then I'd like to be able to see a footnote and double check that statement easily.
Also, I'd like to be able to know where all the drawings of clay tablets included throughout the book are located, and how I can see for myself that it is real and true.
Zachariah Sitchins books are detailed with actual translations of Ancient Cuniform (clay tablet) writings.
He delves into ancient texts, and clay tablet writtings, religious scriptures, artifacts, and drawings & visits museums, and sights of actual historical significance mentioned in various world scriptures, to get an up-close, hands on grasp of what happened.
His books are filled with historical facts, with awesome translations, actual pictures of the cuniforms themselves, many of which are pictorial in nature (they appear in his books).
Each of the books is a veritable treasure-house of knowledge, of scientific breakthroughs into understanding what has happened in ancient civilizations, regarding gods (alien races), and their meaning present in our scriptures today.
Granted, the theories and concepts brought forth by Sitchin, while at times seem outlandish on the surface, are no more so then believing in a one, true almighty being who made man from clay and woman from a rib, has angels and demons battling it out in some war of good and evil.
The belief systems we have in place today began THOUSANDS of years ago.
Perhaps many more thousands of years ago then mainstream conventional science is willing to accept.
Over those thousands of years, as man became more "civilized" and "educated," those belief systems evolved...
"Teaching humanity the true nature of Earth and the heavens, the Nefilim informed the ancient astronomerpriests not only of the planets beyond Saturn but also of the existence of the most important planet, the one from which they came: THE TWELFTH PLANET":The author develops at length the minuciae of the "production" of (a working) man by genetic engineering, and offers alternative readings of the biblical Deluge, this time around including the "gods" within the plot, and relating also the whole chronology with climatological changes in the planet.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
An interesting book.
The author takes all the relics- all the antiquities of history- all the religious texts- all the mythologies from Rome, Greece, Israel, India and Sumer....
Some points are interesting- some points are plausible- and some points leave you scratching you head saying...
The author has eleven other books on this subject...
I think I have the gist of what he's trying to say.This book is listed under non-fiction...
I would call it a cross between historical fiction and sci-fi.As a note: it would be really nice to have sited some "reputable" sources rather than just other authors who view the topic the same as him.
While many people look at Zecharia Sitchin as a kook who used questionable anthropology and archaeology as a way to sell "alien astronauts" as the basis of sentient life on earth, I find his works to be passionate and well informed studies of Sumerian lore. Even if you discount entirely the concept of the Annunaki as aliens, this series is still a masterful work of bringing some of the most ancient tales to modern man.
So, if you are a religious person, you will definitely dismiss this book because it runs against the Biblical teaching that we were created in the image and likeness of God via Adam and Eve as mentioned in the first book of the Holy Bible, Genesis.But what if the God of Adam and Eve actually came from an unknown planet?
There are just so many things in the Catholic faith that is not in the Bible because they are parts of the Catholic tradition: dogma, teachings that have already been part of the church for so many centuries that they are already "bible truths" so to speak.Overall, this book feels like a non-fiction and I think it should be categorize as that.
The opening book of the epic Earth Chronicles lays out some serious cosmogony of our solar system, based on Sumerian texts and interesting conjecture.Look people, its not science.
There is a reason these books have been gadflys at the body of "real scholarship" for about 30 years -- they offer at least some explanation for otherwise very inexplicable texts which most scholars would rather ignore than try to explain away.
And then Stitchin takes off on hugely conflicting tangents.
On the one hand, he claims that the 12th planet took x thousands of years to orbit through the solar system compared to one year for Earth and that's why so much could be accomplished on Earth with, as the Bible claims, people living or ruling for thousands of years.
Then he goes on to claim that the Earth itself was created when the 12th planet blew up.
I struggled to get through this boring and conflicting pack of stories and would have to be paid a heckuva lot of money to consider reading any more in the series.Do not make me go there!
What can be the reason of exact mathematical separation of 3600 years marking the spurts in mankind’s march to civilization : the Mesolithic period circa 11000 BC, the pottery phase circa 7400 BC, and the sudden cultures of Mesopotamia circa 3600BC, followed by Egyptian & Indus Valley ?Sitchin proposes answer to each of these and many more questions in building his founding citadel of proofs of an alien connection to our planet: That there existed a lost Planet Tiamat in the early stage of planetary evolution, which was collided and broken by a rogue Planet Marduk pulled into the solar system by gravitational force, resulting in creation of planet Earth and the asteroid belt.
Sitchin does an excellent job of putting forth his theory of where man originated, using the Old Testament, Ancient Akkadian, Mesopotamian, and Summerian Texts as his initial building blocks.
The first 180 out of 300 pages, give or take 10, are Sitchin's observations and interpretations of Ancient Texts, building his argument slowly and deliberately.
The final 70 pages are the real meat-and-potatoes of the entire book, where Sitchin lays out his theory in full.
It's a planet that had come screaming into our system, destroying half of a much larger Earth with one of it's satellites, creating the asteroid belt from Earth, and moving our orbit closer to the sun.
The ideas and suggestions about aliens generally gets a lot of people worked up about how plausible or unbelievable they are, however Sitchin incorporates science, archaeology, the Bible, Sumerian creation stories, etc.
When looking at stories of Noah, Adam & Eve, creation, etc., the uncanny resemblance of the Bible and Sumerian works is difficult to deny.
I personally feel there is a bit of truth in what Sitchin has proposed, and not many people are cuneiform scholars, so it is difficult to verify or refute his claims.
- but also to a variety of elaborate texts that dealt with the measurement of distances between stars....Astronomical information from ancient times contained in hundreds of detailed texts lists celestial bodies, neatly arranged by their celestial order or by the gods or the months or the lands or the constellations with which they were associated.
A text indexed as B.M.86378 arranged (in its unbroken part) seventy-one celestial bodies by their location in the heavens; and so on and on and on.{poor follow-through over-analysing texts}“When to the Primeval Source for assembly you shall ascend, There shall be a restplace for the night to receive you all.
Gezegen, çoktan beri merak ettiğim, gökten gelen tanrılar, düşen melekler ve dünya üzerinde aklımın almadığı bazı şeyleri biraz daha anlaşılır kılmak üzere Mehmet Mollaosmanoğlu tarafından tavsiye edildi.
Yıllar önce okuduğum ve hayran kaldığım Tanrıların Arabaları kitabının ardından ufkum iyice açıldı.Kitap dünyamızın çok ama çok uzun zaman önce Nefilimler adı verilen bir ırk tarafından sömürge gezegen olarak seçildiğini, uzun süre dünyamızda faaliyet gösterdikten sonra, ağır işlerde kullanmak üzere insan ırkını yarattığını ve sonra çeşitli nedenlerle Tanrı Enlil'in bizden kurtulmak isterken kardeşi Enki'nin bizi nasıl savunduğunu anlatıyor.
Ayrıca tanrı, adak, ibadet gibi kavramların ne şekilde ortaya çıktığı, insana tarımı, hayvan evcilleştirmeyi kim, nasıl öğretti bunlardan da bahsediliyor.
The first book in Zecharia Sitchin's, the Earth Chronicles, remains as controversial today as in the year 1972 of its release.
The author's fascinating claims of ancient astronaut visits to Earth, a twelfth planet in our solar system and the origin of the human species are incredible but supported by ancient texts discovered in Mesopotamia dating to circa 4000 BCE.
Intertwining these ancient clay tablets, of which Sitchin could proudly claim the largest private collection thereof, with Biblical texts from the Old Testament, the author spins a marvelous tale of interplanetary travel, family rivalries, and an ancient quest for gold.
12. Gezegen-Dünya Tarihçesi 1-DÜNYA TARİHÇESİNİN İLK KİTABI The 12th Planet, Zecharia Sitchin, 1976, 447 sayfa. bazı bilgiler eksik-yanlış, şu kaynaklardan doğrusu okunabilir; ilk insan Vega da 6 milyon yıl, Hiborniya-Hyperborea medeniyetinin kuruluşu, Dünyada ilk insan- Hiborniya 2 milyon yıl, Lemurya-Mu-Mukalia imparatorluğu, M.Ö 900.000-25.000, Atlantis, Yü (agarta-şambala), Libya/Mısır kolonilerinin kuruluşu, M.Ö 500.000-11.000, Atlantisin Lemuryayı yok edişi MÖ 25.000, Atlantisin yok oluşu, M.Ö: 11.000 kaynak: -Lemurya Yolu, -Galaktik insan, -Ra bilgileri 1-2-3-4 -Kaskopya celseleri 1994-2014
The world mythology aspects to this book were great, and in itself make this worth reading.
I suppose the scenario is plausible, although I have misgivings about certain aspects, including the technology, and the possible cause of the Deluge.
All in all this was a fun book to read, but if Sitchin was correct, it would only mean that the bible, and all the world mythologies and gods and goddesses, were not really divinely inspired after all, nor were these beings ever well intended in regards to our well being.
I suppose that fits with all the smiting, seductions, angels of wrath, wars, exclusivity etc, that saturate religions and faiths.
Intriguing sourced information on the Nephilim who according to ancient text from antiquity created civilizations and mankind, which modern science is also in agreement with. Their ancient cultures of Sumer and Mesopotamia begot the ancient civilizations that we know of today such as Egypt. How the ancient Sumerian text and those of the bible are in sync with each other on mankind's origins from the Sons of God the Annunaki which actually means the fallen ones. Very interesting read.
A rogue planet called Nabiru or Marduk was sailing acoss the universerve when all of the sudden it got sucked into our solar system by a strong gravitational pull.
As it sailed into our solar system it collided with a planet called Tiamat.
The Planet broke in half leaving the other half to roam our solar system as Asteroids.
It was at this point that Anu the leader of planet Nabiru decided to vote in favor of the worker.
It was after this that the Anunaki chose to teach humans the rudiments of civilization.
Sitchin’s 12th Planet, the first book in the revolutionary Earth Chronicle series presents irrefutable documentary evidence of the existence of the mysterious planet Nibiru, home of the Nefilim/Anunnaki.
After an Anunnaki mutiny deriving from the laborious mining operations the leaders answered the plea, the result was the genetic manipulation of the savage Homo erectus with the genes of the Gods (Nefilim) resulting in the creation of a primitive worker, Homo sapiens - modern man.A dazzling and amazing read, I recommend reading this book with an open-mind and let go of any tendencies to search for, interpret, favor, and recall information in a way that confirms one’s preexisting beliefs or hypotheses (confirmation bias).Genesis 6:4: “There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of renown.”
One of the problems of most historic disciplines has been tunnel vision.
A microscopic focus on one particular area, region, problem and no grand horizon or synthesis of other disciplines or knowledge.
The areas were divided into false paradigms of "civilized" and "primitive" and false assumptions of the lineal, but ever increasing, level of cultural development.
As various regions of the globe have begun to examine their own past, through their greater understandig of their past (via language, customs, etc.) it had become apparent that societies rise and fall with regularity.
Sono sempre più, ormai, gli studiosi e gli scienziati che sostengono la teoria degli antichi astronauti convalidando, almeno in parte, le ipotesi di Sitchin.
Dalle tavole Sumere fino ai reperti archeologici, dagli antichi testi (Sacra Bibbia, compresa)...
un viaggio verso il nostro passato che potrebbe essere stato "alternativo" a quello che ci hanno raccontato.
Non ho iniziato queste letture per smentirlo o credergli ciecamente, ma per ascoltare un nuovo e diverso punto di vista.
E l'ho trovato estremamente interessante.
L'unico difetto, se così si può definire, è che ogni tanto è dispersivo nel narrare gli avvenimenti.
I enjoyed reading the book and I find it quite fascinating.
It would be a wonderful dream to go back to the past and really see the past.
I have so many questions and wouldn't it be wonderful to travel to the past and go to the future to see if it really happen again?
I truly believe the past is more advance in some area of the fields compare to this generation.
There are some parts in the books that fits some of the questions I had in the past and it makes me wonder.
To read this book you should be open-minded.
All I can say, for now, is that this book is mind-opening! Among thousands of things I've learned in this book, the fact that the Sumerians recorded our solar system so long ago I will never forget.
This book was well-researched and had lots of expertise behind it. The conclusions are pretty wild and far out there, but not really any more implausable than what the Bible tells us. An entertaining read, though dry at times as he builds his case with tons of examples.
Sitchin is as close to a quack as it gets without being called a fraud right away.
Just take this as some nice motivation to get deeper into REAL assyrian/sumerian/babylonical mythology and read the rest as a damn nice science fiction.
I had a shitload of fun reading this, and I'm looking forward to read the other books.As I will not mention this in every review of his books, here is a link to a really good debunking of his theories (in german language): https://www.gwup.org/infos/themen/91-...But nevertheless, if you read this as science fiction, this is highly recommended.
Zechariah Sitchin's research,studies and publications (including this book) have given me a whole new paradigm through which to view the history of the creation and development of mankind on the Earth.
The Book uses evidence from ancient civilizations and events as well as recent findings in astronomy to prove his hypothesis that there indeed is a 12th planet with an elliptical orbit around our sun that returns every 3,600 years near to the Earth; a planet that brings with it immense changes to the earth and its inhabitants each time it returns to our vicinity.
