https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421605.A_Funny_Thing_Happened_on_the_Way_to_the_Forum
Maybe I was just in the right mood to receive the comedy...but I highly recommend that everyone give this short read a try.The story involves a slave during the Roman Empire period trying to gain his freedom by providing his master's son the woman he is in lust with.
Only problem is that the woman lives in the bordello next door...and she has already been bought by someone else who is coming to get her soon.
the master's wife returning to also mis-read events and the general hectic series of machinations by the slave and hilarity not just ensues...but romps all over the place.
Oh, yikes, this is dated, but I still think at the core it is very funny. Pseudolus has so many good bits, and I love how different the setting is from anything else in musical theater. It's too bad that the women are all dim, or shrewish, or sex objects, and not deeply involved in the story. Even a lesser Sondheim score has real gems (who doesn't love Comedy Tonight?) I would hate a steady diet of shows like this in the theater, but as a balance to other fare, this is still very much worth producing.
This ISBN (0396085997) is incorrectly cataloged; this book included both A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum AND The Frogs.
I listened to a portion of a broadway production with Nathan Lane as the god of wine (perfect), and found they embraced the well-read goofyness.However near the end, when we indulge in a debate between George Shaw and William Shakespeare, things become incredibly didactic and the play actually concludes with the cast telling you be "rude" and go join political activism - not in a theme, but actually them telling the audience to do as soon as they get up away from the manuscipt or theatre.
Did I miss the funny part? Less than thrilling.
My issues with this play are less about my opinion of the book and more about my opinion of 1960s musicals.
The origins of the text, Plautus, is skewed with the modern sensibilities of the theater, and it seems as though it may have worked for 1960s audiences, but today is a little weird and cumbersome.
The value of the text is all in the way it is performed in the individual theaters that produce it, and I think that is where the beauty lies, rather than the text itself.
VERY loosely based on the comic plays of the Roman Plautus, Larry Gelbart's vaudvillian adaptation can be hillariously funny. Stephen Sondheim's lyrics and music often stand in odd counterpoint to the style of the libretto, offering disonant melodies and lyrics which are often to clever for the uneducated slaves and hypocritical masters who sing them. Still in all, it is a fast-paced farce that can easily be used in a curriculum as a modern adaptation of a classic style.
If you like a play on words, silly humor, and just plain hilarity, then get yourself a copy of A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum. Be sure to have wiki close by, for those a Greek and Roman names, as nothing is by chance in this freaking funny play. Read the intro too, good info to have before the curtain rises. Thanks D, we are on the same page as usual :)
A quick romp into hilarity; from slapstick to political in-correctness. I play Domina. I ordered you to come see me in it on May 6-7, 2011! Did you forget? Well, you can read the play, then...
Superb!
My son will be playing Hero in a school production of this so I had to track it down and read it first. It is quite humorous and I look forward to seeing a life production of it.
I love reading theater scripts that provide incite into the writing of the script as well. The script here is very funny, which I already knew, so I wanted a little back story as well.
It was an excellent play. I really enjoyed reading it.
I definately preferred the book to the movie. My theater did the stage show and it was interesting to see it performed on a live stage.
This was such a fun story. I had no idea what it was about before starting it, and I was pleasantly surprised!
