https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/921455.Magic_and_Mystery_in_Tibet
She had the drive. Alex studied Buddhism at the Sorbonne. (...)Then she headed towards Lassa, Tibet. She had great questions to answer to; she was, indeed, a great questioner; she gave also great answers while living. Yet, there are some instances of her thought I still don’t understand.  She spent 14 years in Tibet (in fact, the 1st western woman to do so) and had a great work of translating, from the Sanskrit, the original texts. A soprano voice, Alex marveled men, and scholars. She met with
In 1911 she was stationed in Pondicherry and she was affirming: “Be yourself your own light”--very Buddhistic.She met with Aurobindo who told her about the 3rd beatitude: it’s the “renunciation of ambitions,…desire”.
In another instance she said: “Ni dieu, ni maitre” :(no need for) neither God, nor a master, like my father exiled in Brussels,...
But her driving-force, was this magnus question: the 3rd beatitude of the Bhagavad Gita (the way of the yoga); she questioned several people about it.
He offered her several gifts; one of great import: Milarepa’s poetry, Alex wanted so much to translate.She arrived to Lassa in 1924.-How come she said “the Dharma theory is socialist and feminist”?
Although David-Neel is a product of her time, and this book is definitely not objective, what she was writing about is almost opposite to the cerebral image that Buddhism projects now.
Overall the book is worth reading if you have an interest in shamanism, magic, or Tibetan Buddhism as it was practiced at the beginning of the 20th century.
Tibetan Buddhism in the early part of the 20th century, at least according to David-Neel, was harsh, unsympathetic, sometimes quite corrupt, often quite bizarre, but darkly magical and fiercely alive - something that cannot always be said for the current version of Buddhism practiced in the West.
This book is a trip. It reads more like a manual than a memoir. Very technical regarding exactly how to perform certain mystical workings or magick spells.
David-Neel was apparently the first European author to write of the concept after spending many years in Tibet during a time when it was supposedly closed to Europeans, ignoring several instructions for her to leave and often travelling in disguise so as to avoid deportation.Unaware of the author before I had no idea what to expect, but subconsciously I feared this might end up a little 'new age' and sensationalist.
Thus she cleverly avoids both the trap of your average skeptic of merely dismissing these experiences as hallucinations and the trap of the new age believer ready to take on board any mystical reality as absolute truth.
I was utterly enthralled by this book when I read it a few years after David-Neel's death.
I haven't re-read it in the intervening decades so my impressions are those of a much younger me.
I had no knowledge of the ancient Bon tradition prior to reading Magic and Mystery in Tibet but what I have read since then confirms much of David-Neel's reportage.
As such, Magic and Mystery in Tibet is a valuable introduction to the "hidden worlds" - at least hidden from western eyes - that we still crave today.
Fascinating account of Tibet with its manifold Buddhist and spiritual practices.
David-Neel visited it in the early 19th century, when much of the country's old culture and traditions were still intact and in practice.
This book seems to be a classic of Tibet studies - to be honest, I expected more tales about her travels and personal experiences, but her descriptions of the workings of monasteries, lamaist practices and mental exercises, phenomena concerning gods and demons proved to be just as interesting to me.
Nevertheless it is an important as well as entertaining read about Tibet and its unique Buddhist and traditional culture.
This is Alexandra David-Neel's account of various mystical traditions she encountered while traveling in Tibet during the reign of the 13th Dalai Lama.
While her other books focus on how she came to be on these long journeys and how she disguised herself to get into Lhasa, this one focuses on magicians, mystics, and lamaist traditions she discovered during her research.
Read this one years ago.
Some of it might be, but my BS detector is pretty active when reading this author.The writing is a strange mixture of learning and bombast.
The author seems to have missed any buddhist teachings on ego.
For example (and this happens over and over), she will meet some high lama, and after he questions her a bit, she will assert that he then completely accepts that she is highly learned.
I am so perfectly wonderful!OK, now I've finished the re-read.
The text is most annoying near the beginning, and most opaque near the end.
I've never seen this text referenced by modern buddhist teachers, yet it has a certain ineffable charm.
It is great in the sense that she gives a insight into the roots of Buddhism in Tibet which are strongly tied to Hindu Tantric practices and Shamanistic beliefs from Tibetan tribes which exists way back before the existence of Tibet. A funny quote is that the love of fermented beer or chang by Tibetans is linked to their Supreme Guru, Padmasambhava ( the supreme magician sorcerer)whose true historical verifyable details of his life or lives.... are hard to check and abound in epic legends.......
The author lived in or near Tibet for over a decade, walked across the country several times, spoke with everyone and anyone about all sorts of mystical topics, and meditated enough to have her own experiences as well as earning respect and having a reputation as someone worthwhile to talk with. This is a must read for anyone interested in the mystical side of Tibet.
You might need an academic interest to read this story of the strangest beliefs and practices revealed by a Victorian woman who became a Tibetan Buddhist nun and learned the Tibetan language to do it. She wrote thirty books in her lifetime. An amazing, unreal bio.
Just finished this book. I love travel books and this certainly qualifies. No one today going to Tibet could have such experiences and in this book, she shares some of her more amazing encounters and experiences.
Fascinating look at the real Tibet and the influence the ancient Bon had and still still have on that area. Neel penetrated the country and learned secrets that very few outsiders were privileged to see and she did it at time when women were not "allowed" to do such things.
This is my favorite kind of non-fiction - a perfect example of truth being stranger than fiction. It's fascinating, obscure, a little whacky and off-beat. I love books like this.
Certainly the biggest woman traveller of the last century!
This is a great book which I nearly finished but have had to move on to other things.
un pò fiacco verso la metà, riprende ritmo nelle ultime pagine
One of the scariest non-fiction books I've ever read. I have an immense respect for the author for her tenacity, knowledge, curiosity, power of mind and humanity.
Amazing!
Wonderful read by the first Western woman to not only visit Tibet but become a lama of the highest order. A very truthful and revealing telling of her time there.
Some truly unbelievable stories about mystics in Tibet and tibetan version of budhism. I already miss reading this book. Need to find more by her.
Alexandra David-Neel shares with us her journey through Tibet as she seeks to study the various teachings of Buddhism.
The individuals she meets present a wide range of teachings, mysticism, and magic.It is a laborious journey.
They learn the language, they mimic the practices of their hosts and share those experiences with the outside world.
David-Neel's experiences often fall outside the boundaries of "normal": individuals who can traverse vast distances when in a trance, a master who appears in front of her and then disappears, telepathy.
Yet, these observations do not appear to fall outside the normative day to day happenings in the Tibetan culture.
Full of magic: Buddhist monk flying in air, putting spell on knife for the bearer to commit suicide etc., etc.
Александра Давид-Неел, с рождено име Луиз-Йожени-Александрин-Мари Давид, е френска пътешественичка, теософка и анархистка.Пребивава в Африка, Индия, Сиким, Япония и Тибет.
Благодарение на него тя е "заразена с вируса" на анархизма и атеизма, както и с този на окултизма.В детството си избягва от родителите си и пътешества във Франция и Испания на велосипед.
Там се запознава с основателя на теософското общество Елена Блаватска, която заинтересува Александра с разказите си за Тибет.През 1888 г.
Александра е посветена във "Великата символическа шотландска ложа на Франция", която сменя своето име през 1902 г.
По-късно в Тунис среща железопътния инженер Филип Неел, за когото се омъжва през 1904 г.
One of the most boring books ever read. This is more of a travel account and if you are expecting something regarding Tibetan philosophy you are going to be disappointed
I am a great admirer of Alexandra David - Neel. Equally at home in the West and the East, she is practical, no - nonsense, and clear-headed. Yet she never dismisses the wonders of Tibetan mysticism out of hand, as many Europeans of her time did. He descriptions of Tibetan rituals are colorful and well informed. I love browsing this book. There's always something there to inform and delight the imagination.
This Victorian lady with ties to Theosophy and Buddhism went to Tibet and tramped around meeting lamas and ngagspas (magicians) and Tibetan yogis, and wrote about her experiences. This book was both fascinating and illuminating, and also removed some of the veil of mystique around Tibetan Buddhism. Highly recommend to anyone with interest in yoga, Victorian colonialism, and the religious culture of the region. My favorite part of this book was the chapter "Dealing with Ghosts and Demons".
Great companion piece to 'Journey to Lhasa'. This book really gives you insight into the Tibetan beliefs & practice of their yogis. It helped to understand why the Tibetans revere the cave retreat. So much of David-Neel's observation rings true today which I find astonishing. A testament that it conveys a certain timelessness of the Tibetan culture.
This book was really really interesting. I enjoyed reading it. I expected that she goes trough explanations of practical magic shown by Tibet but she actually tells stories most of the times witch are so impressive. It was a really goodread, but it talks a lot about demos, dying, and it mentions more of that dark part then the bright and loving one, that only what confused me a little bit.
I found this book quite tedious. It seemed really factual, with little real feeling or emotion. I thought I'd find out more about the Tibetan people but it was a lot about how she tramped through the forest etc. and not much else, it seemed. It has been a couple of years since I finished the book, but this is my lasting impression.
