https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8722.Burr
”In the half-light of the cemetery, Burr did resemble the devil--assuming that the devil is no more than five foot six (an inch shorter than I), slender, with tiny feet (hooves?), high forehead (in the fading light I imagine vestigial horns), bald in front with hair piled high on his head, powdered absently in the old style, and held in place with a shell comb. Behind him is a monument to the man he murdered.” Aaron BurrAaron Burr is, without a doubt, one of the most fascinating figures in Ameri
With the way we venerate Jefferson (with a few reservations about his association with Sally Hemings), it is interesting to think about how close he comes to NOT being the third President of the United States.
The Aaron Burr of this story is really a surrogate for the wicked wit of Gore Vidal.
I love this badass statue of Aaron Burr at the Museum of American Finance.Vidal explores his growing conflict with Alexander Hamilton, which escalates under the spidery web of insinuations that Jefferson glibly whispers in the ears of those around him.
However, while riding on a train one day, she experienced a political conversion while reading Gore Vidal’s novel, "Burr." According to Rep. Bachmann, she became so upset with the way Vidal depicted our Founding Fathers – mocking them, she said – that she dropped the book into her lap and said to herself, “I must be a Republican.”I have owned two copies of that novel for years, and though I have read all of Vidal’s other historical novels, somehow I had never gotten around to reading this one.
'Burr' is the lead novel in Gore Vidal's seven-book series on U.S. history.
If you've never read Vidal, there are other places you might want to begin ('Julian' is a marvelous novel, as is 'Messiah.' You can't really go wrong with Gore.) But if you're a fan of history and turned off by textbook drudgery (and occasional misinformation), 'Burr' opens one writer's look at American history without all the usual hagiographic nonsense.
(Not to mention Vidal is just a natural novelist, a man of letters who writes effortlessly.)The other six books, in order:'Lincoln' (acclaimed as the best novel in the series, and Pres.
It's the first novel I've read by Gore Vidal; an enthralling alternative view for Hamilton fans. History is truly a network of stories told from different points of view. Great fun!
The account of the plodding figurehead, Washington, the man who wanted to be king, was hilarious.
The shifty Jefferson, the great hypocrite, who was a far greater politician than statesman, is laid bare.Nearly all the characters are real, and scholarship is impressive.
The story of a young journalist intent struggling with his moral duty as a reporter vs the love of his fatherly subject (Burr) worked beautifully as brilliant yet aging octogenarian unlayers his remarkable past and his many peccadillos come to light.
A student, showing up as part of a course obligation, was interrogated rather aggressively by an elderly gentleman regarding his views on the schedule speaker.
Burr, who was favoured by many to become the President of the USA, stepped aside to allow Thomas Jefferson to take the 'throne'.
Thomas Jefferson, learning of this, deliberately misinterpreted Burr's planning as evidence of plotting treason against the United States.
Excerpts from these memoirs alternate with Schuyler's own accounts of his daily life in New York during the election campaign the brought Martin Van Buren to the White House in 1837.
Schuyler is torn between the money they offer him and his high regard for Burr.Vidal uses the excerpts from Burr's (fictional) unpublished memoirs to write his idiosyncratic version of the history of the American Revolution.
Burr is not just this obscure fellow about whom there is likely a trivia question.There are two first person narrators: 1) Charlie Schuyler, the only fictional character in the novel, is a clerk in Burr's law office; and 2) Burr himself.
Burr dictates his memoirs to Charlie, which begin in the Revolutionary War, carry us through the 1800 election and the duel, and for a few years after.
Vidal himself, in the afterword, says All in all, I think rather more highly of Jefferson than Burr does; on the other hand, Burr’s passion for Jackson is not shared by me.
"Although Americans justify their self-interest in moral terms, their true interest is never itself moral.
Yet, paradoxically, only Americans - a few, that is- ever try to be moral in politics." -- Gore VidalVidal takes full responsibility for his perjury.
Okay he only admits to errors and anachronisms, but sides himself with Richard Nixon in the process.
Burr is a wonderful tale, finding delight in skewering the reputations of the Founding Fathers and all the hypocrisy which didn't make its way into elementary school textbooks.
It was also written at the height of Watergate.Unlike most historical fiction, Burr breathes.
Another found, another to read again. At twenty-one, I would have been spellbound by the drama surrounding Burr, and romanticized the era, being Canadian. Now with greater background and considerably more years beneath me, Burr by Gore Vidal would be a much different experience.
even though he lost nearly every battle he was in and was, at best, a laissez-faire Executive), and the history we refuse to remember (like the stuff about the US wanting to invade Mexico since the pre-Revolution days, leading to Hamilton wanting to do it under Adams, Burr trying in 1805, then the problems with Texas, culminating in the war of aggression by the US taking large chunks of Mexico because it could).
When Mexico lost Texas shortly before Burr's death, he only commented, "What was treasonous in my day is patriotism now; I was just 30 years too soon."
Re-reading actually.
I loved this tale of our hapless 2nd Vice President so much I named my youngest son after him.
I love Gore Vidal's writing and have read so many of his wonderful historical novels, bursting with history and personality.
Possibly my all time favorite writer, though he has only written one scifi story.I admire Aaron Burr more and more as I see how the insanity that is American politics continues to appall and astound.
If only we could rid government of politics.
The memoirs are framed by the events of both of their lives in the mid 1830's, the final years of Burr's life, and a time of transition and revelation for Schuyler (who was to return in a later book of the series, 1876).We get to see a Washington who couldn't fight his way out of a pair of leggings and whose chief character traits are dullness and vanity; a Jefferson who is endlessly mendacious and completely without principle; and a Hamilton who is sparkling but reckless, at every turn the architect of his own downfall.
A great read for rendering a satirical and jaundiced view of the Founding Fathers, with a focus on Washington, Hamilton, and Jefferson.
The scheme was stopped at an early stage by Jefferson, who believed it to be part of a larger treasonous plot to lead the western states to secede from the union (which ironically was a state's right in his anti-Federalist view).
Vidal breathes life into history by portraying a plausible version of dialog, thought, and motivation; that he goes 'over the top' and leans toward a cynical viewpoint does not detract from being entertained by his imagination and educated away from simplistic heroic views of our history.
He is here presented as an irresistible rogue, a gambler, brilliant lawyer, ladies man, and military genius, who was tried for treason for allegedly wanting to split off the Western states from the Union.
All this is but a smoke screen for Vidal's exquisite skewering of American historical pieties about the founding of their country, and, in particular, of the reputation of Great Men such as Washington (a useless general, who lost every battle, here) and Jefferson (a pedantic tyrant, here, who fabricated a case against Burr).
Hugely entertaining and beautifully written, this is a brilliant piece of writing, and may even be educational.
My brother and SIL really loved this book, but I'm finding it irritating.In all fairness, I'm stuck about 50 pages in and reluctant to continue.I don't like any of the characters, and when that's the case, it's hard for me to like a book (or movie or play).
Everybody is smug and droll to the point of Oscar Wilde.Now, there are memoir portions of the book in which Aaron Burr relates, via letter or diary, to the clerk some of his history.
Brother assures me the book eventually becomes about 70% memoir, so perhaps I will grow to appreciate it more.
Vidal. That name says it all. Hey, I'm a poet? Geesssh! I loved him years ago when I read him. Think my father was reading this one, and like a lot of my early picks, I read it too. Also, read lots of my sisters books. They were a great help in getting my love for books going. But back to the books, the man . . . Want to learn about history in an interesting way? Read him!
Yet I do think that my name has in some mysterious way been filched from me and used to describe a character in some interminable three-volume novel of fantastic adventure, the work of a deranged author whose imagination never sleeps - although this reader does when he reads for the thousandth time how the hellish Aaron Burr meant single-handedly to disband the United States when a voyage to the moon would have been simpler to achieve, and a good deal more interesting.""Curious to think that we would almost certainly have been friends had we not been two young "heroes" at the beginning of a new nation, each aware that at the summit there is a place for only one.
What is astonishing is that, with all the documentary evidence available, such a look has only recently been undertaken, most notably by historian Nancy Isenberg.Basically, though, when it comes to received wisdom of the stories, things simply do not add up.What Gore Vidal did in this novel (and he explains why a novel instead of a straightforward afterword which I recommend reading first) is to take things at face value based on the contemporary accounts available and applying a little logic to the history of this most interesting of the Founders to try to portray a "fair"portrait.The result is shocking, grounding, and immensely informative.Of late (and I stress that this is nothing new) the reputations of the Founders have been locked in amber as if they were demigods.
As his amanuensis, he chooses Charles Schermerhorn Schuyler, a young New York City journalist, and together they explore both Burr's past and the continuing political intrigues of the still young United States.Opening: 1833: One: A Special Despatch to the New York Evening Post: SHORTLY BEFORE MIDNIGHT, July 1, 1833, Colonel Aaron Burr, aged seventy-seven, married Eliza Jumel, born Bowen fifty-eight years ago (more likely sixty-five but remember: she is prone to litigation!).
In attendance were Madame Jumel's niece (some say daughter) and her husband Nelson Chase, a lawyer from Colonel Burr's Reade Street firm.
Burr sees a young child, obviously Jefferson's grandson, precariously playing in a tree and says, "Your grandson is about to fall." At which Jefferson blushes and says it is one of the children of the plantation workers.When the novel was published in 1973 it was still not accepted history that Jefferson fathered children through his slaves, so this must have been quite diabolical fun for the first readers.
In the afterward, Vidal states that he does not share Burr's opinions of all the characters, but that he, of course, had to write from the opinion of Burr.If you like Founding Father biographies, but want a fun, quick read that satirizes those, then I recommend this book.
I started to re-read Lincoln, then Sarah pointed out that Burr is actually the first book in the American Chronicle series, and it makes sense to read them in order, so let's read this instead.I didn't like this anywhere near as much as I liked Lincoln, but it's still enjoyable, and Burr's a great character.
But that's part of the problem, he seemed the whole time a lot more like a character in a novel to me than an actual historical figure.
Also, I don't know anything about the Revolutionary War, nor about the early years of the United States, so maybe Lincoln was just more approachable to me because I knew more of the context?
One of the most enjoyable historical novels ever written.
None of his other works, especially his "American series" (1876, Lincoln, etc.) measure up.
Its genius is a historical inversion: the hero: Aaron Burr; the villain: Thomas Jefferson.
Most who didn't go to the University of Virginia should be honest enough to admit that Vidal has caught the dark side of Jefferson--the starry-eyed philosophy that contrasted with the ruthless conduct of his politics.
And, Vidal devises a plausible reason for the famous dual with Alexander Hamilton (Hamilton's insult to Burr has been lost to history).
Be sure to read to the end.
Unbelievable from start to finish! Aaron Burr, remembered in history primarily for killing Alexander Hamilton has a rich history that spans the revolutionary war all the through the Andrew Jackson presidency. All of these characters, especially Thomas Jefferson, are brought to light through Burr's perspective. Gore does an incredible job of separating his own politics and how he views these men, as he mentions in the afterward, from how Burr viewed them. This historical novel (not a biography) is a fun way to visit the past and is the reason the term "page turner" exists.
430 concise pages. Aaron Burr was vilified by Thomas Jefferson but this book tells us the story of the American revolution and early politics all the way to Martin Van Buren's presidency. Burr was critical of Washington and Jefferson and wasn't afraid to stand up for the division of power in government. It is interesting how much history is covered in one man's life. Vidal's handling is even handed and thorough.
Aaron Burr, sir. I think you are incredible. Review to come
Of late, I have been listening to (taking?) lectures from The Great Courses that deal with America's revolutionary times and the individuals we usually refer to as 'Founding Fathers.
And a hoot is was!I started the book while listening to "America’s Founding Fathers" by Professor Allen C.
Guelzo, giving an almost immediate test of the veracity of Vidal's historical content...he scored very well, particularly in the outline of the charges of treason that Jefferson leveled at Burr.
One of the conclusions I reached at the close of Dr Guelzo's lectures was that our country was really founded less on virtue and more likely on self-interest.
But the editor, who is deep into New York and national politics, has an offer the penniless young man can't refuse: a lucrative contract to write an anonymous pamphlet accusing Martin Van Buren (current vice-president and future presidential candidate) of being Aaron Burr's illegitimate son and thus handing the presidency to likely contender Henry Clay.
Along the way, Burr decides to give Charles his notes for his own biography, so we have parallel stories: the end of Burr's life as seen from the eyes of Charles, and Burr's youth and political career in Burr's/Vidal's own words.
Izcils stils un liberāli politnekorekts (dažkārt pastāv arī šāds savienojums) skatījums uz ASV kā neatkarīgas valsts pirmsākumiem.
Romāna titulvaronis Ārons Burrs (vai Barrs - īsti neesmu pārliecināta) ir Amerikas trešais viceprezidents, kas pamanās sabeigt savu karjeru, nogalinot divkaujā politisko pretinieku.
Vēl viņu tiesā un attaisno apsūdzībās par valsts nodevību.
Īpaši asa kritika tikusi Tomasam Džefersonam.Darbu grūti lasīt neamerikānim, jo ļoti daudz un smalki stāstīts par agrīnajām ASV politiskajām partijām, tādām kā demokrātiskie republikāņi un federālisti, kas noteica politisko toni pirms tradicionālās sistēmas izveidošanās.Interesanti aprakstīts, kā burtiski tukšā vietā tiek celta Vašingtona, cik nabadzīgs un pieejams ir Baltais nams un kā apķērīgākie prāti sapērkas pagaidām nevērtīgo Vašingtonas putekļaino, neapbūvēto zemi.
Da die Taschenbuchversion (haha im Nachhinein, ein KOLOSS ist es trotzdem) von Hamilton im September noch nicht erschienen war und ich außerdem Leslie als Burr im Musical GROSSARTIG finde (und somit auch unweigerlich eine stärkere Verbindung zu Burr aufbaute), wollte ich unbedingt mehr über Burr erfahren.
Das Buch ist als Roman geschrieben und zwar aus der Sicht von Charlie Schuyler (nein, nicht SO ein Schuyler), der im Verlauf des Buches in Burrs Anwaltskanzlei arbeitet und mit Burrs Hilfe dessen Biographie schreibt.
Faszinierend.Das Musical noch im Kopf, hatte ich gedacht, dass das Duell zwischen Burr und Hamilton DAS Ereignis des Buches sein wird und fragte mich (als der Abschnitt dann vorbei war), was denn jetzt noch kommen sollte?
I'm not very far into this dense work of fiction, but it's my first Vidal novel and I am FLOORED by his style.
Although I got a tad bored at times (mainly due to my own ignorance of America's history), I cannot get over how much I loved this book.
When I describe it to people who've never heard of Vidal's historical fiction series, aren't familiar with Vidal, or aren't familiar with Aaron Burr - nobody seemed to understand what I could like about this book.
It sounds weird.
And it might be weird.
America has changed little since Charlie was documenting Burr's life.
