https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/316028.The_Song_Of_The_World
Un veritable poeme de 300 pages; une epopee fantastique a travers les forets, le fleuve, les nuages, les montagnes, le soleil, les saisons; la vie dans toute sa spendeur.
I was interested in Jean Giono but reluctant to plunge in and read him because of some numbskulled preconception I had of him as being a sentimental Frenchie (Manon of the Spring sentimental, yeah good, but still sentimental) who romanticized the peasant life and who would make me want to sit on a stool in some village sipping wine and jawboning in a language I don't even know for the rest of my life.
But it gets complicated because a group is looking for his son for marrying a girl against everyone's wishes.
There are many fine passages throughout this book, but in general it is stylistically overwrought.
It’s an over-sized prose poem that grudgingly gives way, here and there, to plot.
This gives some passages a strangely medieval heft, and you feel as if what you have in your hands were Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.
All in all, the novel is a difficult read, like some of Faulkner or early Cormac McCarthy.
And as with McCarthy’s The Orchard Keeper, I had to force myself to finish the book.
I look forward to trying other Giono novels; this was just an unfortunate place to start.
A mon avis Antonio est l'homme sans aucune opinion. Et s'il n'y avait pas la nature, la livre a seulement 150 pages ou moins. Mais, jai lu des livres plus horrible et je pense que pour le bac, ce n'est pas tres mal.
A mon avis Antonio est l'homme sans aucune opinion. Et s'il n'y avait pas la nature, la livre a seulement 150 pages ou moins. Mais, j´ai lu des livres plus horrible et je pense que pour le bac, ce n'est pas tres mal.
comment revivre, comment aimer la nature, la vie? D'une histoire très "imple" giono nous éppprnd à aimer la terre et son monde.
a bit boring.....
Le langage des personnages est parfois presque incompréhensible.
Je suis sûre que cette originalité de la langue et cette atmosphère campagnarde plairont à certains lecteurs, ce n'est clairement pas mon cas.Nous sommes plongés dans le quotidien de ces hommes du terroir, qui travaillent toute l'année dehors, en plein coeur de la nature.Mon esprit curieux m'a permis de m'accrocher à ma lecture et d'essayer de m'intéresser un minimum à ce monde paysan mais ce n'a pas été facile.
Comme souvent dans les romans de Giono, un homme, qui entretient une relation harmonieuse avec son bout de nature, en l'occurrence cette fois une rivière. Le héros est entrainé hors de son territoire par un voisin bucheron dont le fils a disparu. La piste va les entrainer dans diverses aventures. Comme toujours, je me suis facilement laissé happer par les ambiances, les personnages et la poésie des textes de cet auteur, à la fois simples et authentiques.
Hill and Melville are remarkable: this, at more than twice their length, is less so, probably just too long. Still, a fine stylist.
Des descriptions centrales qui nous font sentir l'univers champêtre jusqu'au point de le toucher.
La nature en est devenue le personnage principal car toute l'intrigue du roman se déroule aux alentours du fleuve.
Dans un style unique, une intrigue très simple, Jean Giono parvient à nous amener au chant du monde.Magic novel!
Central descriptions make us feel the rural world, with its woods and rivers, to the point of touch it.
In an unique style, with a very simple plot, Jean Giono bring us brilliantly to the song of the world.Bellísima novela!
This is the third Jean Giono book I have read and is by far my least favorite. For some reason I could never really get into the story. I like his connection with nature, his descriptions of the seasons and his whimsical style but it seemed to me it got in the way this book. I dont think I need to know what every element of the landscape smells like. I will try some of his other books but for me this one was a dud.
This wasn't one of the easiest books I've ever had to read, but despite my struggles (and my dislike of how beaten over the head I felt at times -- yes, I understand, that's the color of her eyes, thanks), I ended up enjoying it. The imagery is fantastic, and it has stayed with me since reading it two years ago.
j''ai lu ce livre, il y a bientot 20 ans, il me reste une impression de violence, une sorte de western languedocien. Il faudrait que je le relise, si seulement je pouvait trouver une version en francais !!
I've tried 3 times now and for some reason I can't seem to finish this. It doesn't grab me like Harvest or Blue Boy did.
LOVED IT!!! For me, there can't be a better read!
I am a Giono fan and this is one I like a lot.
