https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92576.Woodcutters
The book is excellently readable, and in my opinion this makes it a very good entry for people who have not read Bernhard yet. But it contains everything that makes the books of Bernhard so readable: repetitions, cynicism, polemics and yet a certain sense of humor.
The novel takes place over only a couple of hours, but is told with large chunks of flashback thoughts, so the time scale feels far greater, and features an intolerable narrator who can't be bothered to leave the 'wing-backed chair' his derrière is comfortably planted on, during an uncomfortable dinner party held in honour of an actor performing in a production of Ibsen's The Wild Duck.
The hosts, 'the Auersbergers', are a most unlikeable couple (ignorant cultural snobs), I though, as I sat in my chair, so unlikeable in fact, that I actually started to like them the more the story progressed, the novel on the whole is a scathing attack on the futile pretentiousness at the heart of Austrian bourgeoisie society.
Our narrator would like you to believe, as he seethes away in his wing chair, that he is unlike the miserable hosts of the party to which he had been invited, unlike their vacuous, imbecilic guests, and unlike the insufferable artistic-guest-of-honor who hasn’t even shown up yet but who the narrator has already made clear is insufferable and is unlike him, the narrator, as he sits in his wing chair.
And what do these people think of him, the narrator, as he sits in his wing chair ridiculing all of them?Look, you know what?
In a prominent, well-trafficked gallery of the Bad Dinner Guest Hall of Fame we should logically expect to find the (unnamed) narrator of Thomas Bernhard's excoriating masterpiece Woodcutters, who not only isolates himself from the other guests, preferring a lone wing chair in the entryway to their generally detestable company, but also spends the better part of the evening mentally dissecting, dismantling, and disparaging everyone who is unlucky enough to fall under his gaze.
It isn't merely that they confine themselves to a subculture, or anti-culture; they are resolutely alone, standing as a lone bulwark against a society they loathe -- and perhaps love, but only as a side effect of intense familiarity.I wonder about Austria, don't you?
I've read this in German a long time ago.
This time round I wanted to tackle him through an English translation.I've chosen the McLintock translation, due to the raving reviews, and I must say it never felt I was reading a translation.
At the end of this English version, I wanted to read again the German version, just to feel the flow of reading a book in the form of 192-pages-no-chapters paragraph in Bernhard's German "prose"...
It's glorious to read how he, sentence after sentence, depicts a very bizarre but not foreign world from the point of view of an observer (the narrator - Bernhard himself?).
Αλλά δεν ήταν αυτό το στοιχείο που κέντρισε το ενδιαφέρον μου, ήταν πολύ περισσότερο πως αυτά τα ναυάγια όπως και το ναυάγιο του Μπέρνχαρτ έχουν ποιότητες, που πολλοί ‘’λογικοί’’ και νορμάλ δεν έχουν ούτε στο ελάχιστο.Ξεκίνησε έτσι μια κατρακύλα στην απόγνωση.
Κι όποιος απ’ αυτούς δεν παραδεχτεί ότι μέσα στην ακέραιη έκφρασή, στην σε απόλυτες τιμές έκφραση, πως όσο κι αποστειρωμένη κι αν τη βρούνε, δε βλέπουν αυτό το πάθος που εκβάλλει ανάμεσα στις λέξεις και αναδίδει το παρελθόν, την αναζήτηση, τη ζωή, τους προτείνω ν’ αφήσουν τα μαθηματικά στην ησυχία τους, ν’ ασχοληθούν με κάτι άλλο.
Willing to broaden your horizons, now and then explore one of those slightly obscure but much-admired novels?
Well try this one on for size...From his wingchair at an ‘artistic’ party in Vienna an aging writer reflects back on his life, and mentally assassinates the character of every person (himself included) in the room.
Similar to how I feel about Edvard Munch’s “The Scream” – Yes I admire it and no I don’t like it.
Bernhard is a brilliant writer – sucked me right into that wingchair.
The suicide of Joana brings him to an after-funeral shindig at the home of rich artistic poseurs the Auersbergers, who he proceeds to eviscerate from the comfort of his wing chair in some of the most painful and acute putdown-prose this side of Laura Warholic, offering little flashes of his own unnoble behaviour, but mostly observing like the Underground Man but with no drunken payoff.
In the midst of this, the narrator reflects upon his relationship with the doomed Joana, in scenes that constitute the “heart” of this mostly splentic novel, and suggest a note of tenderness through disappointment and romantic idealism.
But that was thirty, twenty-five, twenty years ago—the dates are as fluid as the choleric current which carries them along—and in the intervening years, those in which he apparently secreted himself away from the lot of them ere they destroyed and then annihilated him with their insatiable demands, he has taken the true measure of their character, their abilities, their lifestyle, permeated as they are with the essence of an abhorred state, and now views them, and their works, with a hatred that teeters between contempt and exhaustion.In this way, the narrator, secreted away upon his shrouded wing chair, passes two thirds of the novel in a vituperative, circular, and encompassing tirade upon each and every aspect of this absurd supper, its ridiculous guests, the dolorous suicide, its acidic locale, and—the focal anchor for the narrator's obsessive reviling—the Auersbergers: obscenely wealthy bourgeois parasites (allegedly), a conductor and singer whose undoubted talents have been squandered through the corruptions of time, mediocre ambitions, and the essential nature of Vienna/Austria.
He could be there out of politeness, or maybe he liked the idea of an "artistic dinner".
Woodcutters made me think about knocking people off of them to feel like you're still moving.
It stumbles in repeat sentences.Woodcutters made me think about people I used to find interesting and then no longer did.
(Some of them books and not real people.) Not that I think it could go any other way, just that it's something that's too easy to do...
If I ever get invited to any kind of party again I'll do that and then talk about Auesberger like he was a real person.
Just a chair.This is a man in a winged chair:He is the observer; the archetype of neurosis.Neither are authentic to the story of ‘Woodcutters’, but are significant in nature.
The all-inclusive dinner is reminiscent of this scene from Beetlejuice:…and the actor, a Tombstone-esque Billy Zane type, the one you love to hate as he conforms to the absurd and arrogant people to which he is a part of and then as characteristics are exposed, you start to warm up to him as he blasts one of the guests as he transforms into 
In a big, old chair at a late night dinner party, the main character sits and rages silently over his hosts, their art snobbery and the general state of the culture scene in Vienna.
The whole book is about the main character's agitation, rage, melancholy and despair.I think the English title is usually Cutting Timber or Woodcutters, while the original is Hultsfellen.
This makes sense when you think about the main character's never ending criticism of art snobbery.
The main character's rants are often quite funny, and the agitated, never ending stream of thoughts are fascinating to read, in spite of their repetitiveness.
Thus is my third experience of reading Bernhard, and after Old Masters and Correction, I had a pretty good idea what to expect.
Once again this book is largely an intemperate rant against Austrian society written in a single long paragraph full of repetitions but this time I picked up on more of the humour.The unnamed narrator is a writer who has returned to Vienna after a long period in London.
This is another memorable book but not a comfortable read.
The great paradox of this Bernhard narrator, like so many others, is his hypercritical nature, which is often in conflict with itself, and, for the entire book, his utterly static physical presence.
. ." The unnamed narrator has returned to Vienna for the first time in thirty years, from his self-imposed exile in London.
Here he runs into old associates, the Auerbergers, who were lovers and mentors thirty years before, but whom he now despises with a passion that is often laughable in its boundlessness.
Why does he sit there and seeth and yet bottle it up.
It’s narrated as if it’s one deep exhale by an aging writer who has returned to Vienna after several decades away and has reunited with people he “didn’t like 30 years ago and doesn’t like now.” He spends the majority of the novel sitting in the corner at a dinner party hating everything about everyone, and hating himself even more for attending.
There’s that complicated feeling when one has an intense love-hate of their city and their people (and themselves), and that old adage of how you can never really escape who you are and where you come from, no matter how much you turn up your nose.
Almost 30 years after his death, his literary importance doesn’t fade, on the contrary: Bernhard has become a postmodern classic, and just recently, author Benjamin von Stuckrad-Barre (who is extremely famous in German-speaking countries) maintained that “Woodcutters” was the best novel ever written.One of Bernhard’s trademark traits: He never shied away from controversy.
When “Woodcutters” was first published in 1984, a former friend (composer Gerhard Lampersberg) sued the author for defamation - in consequence, all printed copies were confiscated, which of course caused an enormous scandal (Lampersberg and Bernhard later sought an extrajudicial settlement).
A pretext for the dinner is a visit of known actor, but the real reason is a suicidal death of their mutual friend, unfulfilled artist Joana.
His obsessive an interior monologue with one continually repeated phrase I thought, sitting in the wing chair is one great accusation of an artistic circles, upper classes and bourgeois mentality and finally Austria itself.
Austria for him is an inept country, Vienna – city destroying artists, not mention famous Burgtheater, according to Bernhard, the worst theatre scene in the world.
Bernhard straight out throws up Austria, with delight pulling all this mutual adoration society apart, these mediocre so-called artists and their claims to greatness.
Twenty years removed I imagine remnants of that scene still exist, and I hope those fuckers read Woodcutters before they send out invitations to their holiday get-togethers.Some of the Vienna-specific references in the novel are foreign to those outside of Austria, from my perspective, but a reader could probably substitute any second-tier city for Vienna.
Also, I suck at social gatherings, so any time I land in the corner at a party, from here on out, I’ll think of Woodcutters, waiting for the actor to show.
Have you ever existed within the periphery of a group of friends, or maybe classmates in school?
You’re never truly accepted by them.
Maybe they use you for your access to pharmaceuticals or because you’re careless/generous with money.
What could be more gratifying than to gloat over how tacky and pretentious your former friends are?
To wit: You’ve always lived a life of pretense, not a real life -- a simulated existence, not a genuine existence.
Everything about you, everything you are, has always been pretense, never genuine, never real.This book was banned upon its initial publication in Austria.
Crítica severa de la sociedad artística y cultural de Viena, y crítica despiadada de la propia Viena, ‘Tala’ (1984) es un monólogo interior, desde su sillón de orejas, de un narrador y protagonista que ha sido invitado a una cena artística por los Auersberger, a los que llevaba muchos años sin ver, cena artística que también rememora a la fallecida Joanna, que se ha suicidado.
Un prosa circular, repetitiva, hipnótica, con palabras clave que se repiten durante la narración, exponiendo una idea repetidamente, volviendo sobre sus pasos para retomarla, exponiendo unos hechos para volver sobre ellos periódicamente, por los mismos hechos.
Thomas Bernhard, who is dead, but who wrote such great novels during that clearly unhappy period when he was still alive, has written a fabulous novel about a very cranky man sitting in a wingchair at a party, complaining bitterly.
The world is full of idiots and most of them would doubtless fail to recognize that Thomas Bernhard wrote some great books while he was alive, though he has not continued to do so recently, being as he is dead.
I do intend to read more books by Thomas Bernhard, who, unlike most writers, who are idiots, did write some very good books.
I'd almost be tempted to drop this a star on re-read, in part because I found the histories of the narrator's friends tiring on second read, but still I think that initial intox/detox exposure must be respected.***Here's what I'd written in 2007 about the book:So fucking funny, he wrote, sitting in the wingchair .
If you read the overview of this book, you'll see all these newspaper reviews that project exactly the sort of snotty literary attitude the writer-narrator of "Woodcutters," sitting in the wing chair, would absolutely loathe.
Also, how is it possible that the overview does not even mention the book's abounding humor.
The soirée would honor her memory.What follows is a harrowing descent into the twisted confines of one man’s mind as he “sits in the wing chair” in the well-appointed flat of the couple he does not like and passes judgment on all who circulate around him.
Wherein a man attends a dinner and demolishes a country without leaving his chair (or even opening h
7 / 10 Anlaşılır ama akıcı değildi. Kitapta bölümler ve aralar olmaması okunurluğu zorlaştırıyor. En azından YKY bazı satırlar arası boşluk vs koyabilirdi -paragraf bile yoktu- sanki az sayfa tutsun da maliyet düşük olsun gibi yöntem izlenmiş. Altını çizdiğim çok yer oldu. Thomas Bernhard ile tanıştığıma memnunum.
If recently I was exasperated with Virginia Woolf for plageriasing herself, if thats at all possible, in the cross link between Mrs Dalloway and To the Lighthouse, I’m now even more stunned to see Bernhard go one step further, and actually ‘clone’ himself here as a heteronym from ‘The Loser’.
You know, why go out for burger if you’ve got steak at home.
But I’ve got one eye always on the horizon, a low marginal utility threshold and a high Icarius-ian(sic) streak.
And, it IS good.
And here are stunning reviews which more than do it justice.http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
One of the best of his, no doubt about it. The structure is perfection itself, and the musicality of it (even in this excellent translation) is a wonder.
In this one, the narrator sits in a chair at a party and spends his entire time spurting vitriolic bile about how much he hates the hosts and selected invitees, how much he regards the Viennese art scene as beneath him, how rotten and corroded Austria and the Austrians are, and what a weak person he is for allowing himself to be lured into all of this in his formative years.
Locations are identified with detailed streetnames, all accurate, the Burgtheater is well-known as the national theatre, and anybody who knows just a little bit about the book's reception will remember that Bernhard got sued for libel by the real-life version of the fictional party's hosts.And indeed, the compendium gives a detailed analysis of all characters, place names, and situations the I-narrator refers to.
tudo o que Thomas Bernhard escreveu é brilhante, mas este livro... acima dele pouco haverá.
In Vienna a very bad dinner guest indeed pours bile (in his head, he hardly speaks and then only to insult or mumble incoherently before falling asleep) on the assembled guests, as they wait for the star actor from the Burgtheater and directly after the funeral of one of the 'artistic' crowd who has committed suicide.
There are some glimmers of kindness/appreciation as the actor proves later to be honest at least, and some (very slight) sympathy for the deceased.
Right near the end they are mentioned as being more honest and sincere than this 'artistic' crowd.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٨رواية مهمة وسوداوية من الأدب الألماني، حافلة بمراقبة الحياة الكئيبة في مجتمع النمسا الثري ولكنه خاوي من الروح الوثابة، مجتمع مستقر ولكن بعض أفراده يتطلعون نحو غد مختلف ثم يفشلون ويعيشون في مرارة كبيرة
I had the thought on the drive in to work this a.m. that this character is so very lonely, sitting in his wing chair, in the dark, in the entry way, in his two-sizes-too-small funeral suit (he loved Joana deeply, it is clear; as he did/does the Auersbergers); an entirely self-imposed barrier of pride and sadness and bitterness between himself and the rest of the dinner party guests; muttering to himself and ranting about them though he longs to join them, his protestations and vehement condemnation of them - and of himself as one-but-not-one-of-them - notwithstanding.This is - or, I suspect, will be - the re-entry point for me; one that will pull me back to this - eventually, and at a time that I'm more receptive to its style.
Utterly vitriolic dissection of so-called artistic society, compromise, and self-deception -- and yet, what keeps striking me is how funny, how entertainingly readable, Bernhard really is.
Fra realtà e finzione, il Bernhard-protagonista di "A colpi d'ascia" è uno scrittore oramai cinquantenne che, tornato a Vienna per il funerale di una cara amica che non vedeva da oltre vent'anni, viene invitato a una "cena artistica" a casa di vecchi conoscenti, anch'essi frequentati in gioventù e in seguito persi (volutamente) di vista.
Eppure, nelle ultime pagine, quando oramai è in fuga da quella "cena artistica" che tanto l'ha rivoltato, si apre tutta una nuova prospettiva nel pensiero del personaggio bernhardiano: la tardiva consapevolezza che nonostante tutto il suo odio, quelle persone, e la città di Vienna tutta, sono fra le cose che più ha amato in tutta la sua vita.Una irritazione, si è detto, e una irritazione questo libro la esprime bene.
Austria, c'est nous: more worried about being personally offended than about rampant nihilism.
I occasionally worry about diminishing returns with Tommy, but so far so good.
They will be ravished and thrilled despite not being academic philosophers.
There's a grizzled New York street-book-vendor I call "Gangster." He's a fortissimo sforzando character, and despite (or perhaps because of) his occupation (book-selling) in the hipster capital of America (Williamsburg, Brooklyn) his tastes are a bit eclectic, and sometimes arcane (or it could be because he, like me, is an autodidact).
Immediately, I started shouting in Gangster's gravelly fortissimo sforzando voice, "Thomas Bernhard is a great stylist!" "Thomas Bernhard is a great stylist!"But you know what?
And in all of those chairs, in all of those plastic, wood, or overstuffed chairs, I read the book by the great stylist - and that great stylist was determined to throw me into hateful places.Hateful, because the book is a spleen, a rant, a venom filled diatribe.
arch-catholic art abusers!) as he goes over their history together and tries to deal with the fact that they're all growing old and pointless, all their promises given up for comfort and routine, all the ideals they had as the first post-war generation solidified into self-congratulatory nothings, and he's no different.I expected this to be funny, and it is.
I expected it to be cathartic, and it is.
I hadn't expected it to be actually quite moving, but it is.
The forest, the virgin forest, the life of a woodcutter—that has always been my ideal.
"Wing chair" quarterback is he our narrator whose 1st person inner dialogue remarkably never almost never speaks to anyone though he inhabits both a funeral and the wretched "artistic dinner" that is setting for most of this book.
It would get tediously boring if it weren't so funny and like I stated earlier there's a perverse sense of piling on taking place in my reader's mind of joining his trashing everything; it somehow just feels good.
Alt er latterligt i Thomas Bernhards “Træfældning”, der er andet bind i hans såkaldte kunstnertrilogi. Romanen er ét langt raseriudbrud, stopfyldt med afsky mod alt og alle. Ingen går fri, hverken de gemene østrigerne, det nederdrægtige kunstnermiljø, de perfide selskabsonanister og mindst af alle fortælleren selv. Med andre ord: Det er klassisk Bernhard og det er ganske enkelt fremragende, tænker jeg, mens jeg sidder i min øreklapstol.
Da ich diesen aber auch sehr gerne höre und auch lese, ist das ein Pluspunkt für mich.
Denn es erlaubt Bernhard langsam - nachdem man denkt, man hat die endgültige Sicht der Dinge schon mehrmals geschildert bekommen - die Unzuverlässigkeit des Erzählers zu enthüllen, indem langsam immer mehr Einzelheiten der Erzählung offengelegt werden, welche sich mit dem zuvor Gesagten widersprechen.
So wird der Erzähler - zunächst nichts als grantig- doch nach und nach zu einem sensiblen Menschen.PS:Beim zweiten Mal lesen ist mir erst so richtig aufgegangen, wie genial der Text durchkomponiert ist!
Und wer sich schon immer einmal gefragt hat, wie oft das Wort "Ohrensessel" im Text vorkommt: 232 mal.
Some books are such products of their place that one simply cannot imagine them being produced in any other place.
Thomas Bernhard`s loathing of Vienna, and a tiny bit of love, spills over into every page of this novel.
A novel maybe a misnomer, this is essentially a 192 page diatribe in turns hilarious, pathetic and shocking, railing against the art world of Vienna and the characters who inhabit it.
If you have ever been at some soical event and suffered this book shows you how it is done with a level of vitriol that is spectacular.
Witness the vitriolic rantings of a misanthrope, not unlike those of the Underground man of Dostoevsky (this book could very well be the prolongation of the dinner party in Apropos of Wet Snow in Notes from the Underground).
Woodcutters is a masterfully paced book.
Although you can see that the vitriol might be somewhat justified and also slightly exaggerated and distorted in the insistent victimization the narrator claims for himself, the book is so well paced that it is never too much to bear for the reader.
O Joana.i walked my dog, broke out the chilled bottle of white wine that had been sitting in my refrigerator, poured a pint of it, because i had never done that, in a sense an obscure homage to my having at random quit work, also, or such a sudden silent tone, and got back into bed for round two.
I relate with the narrator very much.I too enjoy sitting alone thinking of how much I hate everyone when I'm at a party/event with people I despise. A very strange book. I never would have thought I would like a book about a guy sitting and hating on every person around him. But it was enjoyable.
