https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/948526.The_Knight_at_Dawn
Not a bad concept, but why are these books so bland and character-less? I can’t stand to listen to them in the car, even though the kid seems to sort of like them?
However, my nearly two-year-old is starting to get interested.As a parent I found this book a little annoying.
Then there was the obvious curiosity about kids wandering off in the middle of the night and trying not to get caught by their parents.That being said, while I don't think it's a great story for the grade levels it's promoted for, I do think it will be fantastic for a younger age group.
It could give a lot of inspiration to a younger child interested in make-believe.
I like it a lot for a younger age group, just not the age group it seems to be used for.
The reason why the children are captured by the men in the castle is never clearly given, nor is the reason why they're placed into a storage room.
(view spoiler)[The very storage room that fortunately just happens to have the secret passageway mentioned in Jack's book...
(hide spoiler)]However, the descriptions of the castle, given both from Annie and Jack's pov and from the book, were fascinating, thorough, and historically accurate.
And the fantastically beautiful illustrations once again served to make these descriptions even more vivid.Also interesting to me in this one was the dichotomy between Jack's determination to learn all he could about the castle from his book and Annie's determination to explore the castle for herself.
A book my 6 yr old loved, a little old for my preschoolers. A solid reading level 3 book, this reader has a good amount of advanced vocabulary words, but not so long that it discourages a new reader. Used it for his read out loud book, which was perfect. It took about 15 mins for him to read and had just enough new vocabulary words to make it challenging. Also, it was a fun and interesting story he could get into. He liked it so much, he asked for more by this author. Great reading book!
Magic Tree House, The Knight at Dawn is a fantasy book.
The book is book #2 of the Magic Tree House series written by Mary Pope Osborne.
The whole idea of the Magic Tree House books are that two siblings, Jack and Annie, had a tree house that made them travel in time.
This particular part of the series is about a time where they picked up a book about a knight and wished they were in that time period.
I rated this book a 4 because I like the idea of the magic.
Most children love the idea of magic.
The Knight at Dawn is one of many belonging to the Magic Tree House series.
Mary Pope Osborne does an excellent job of creating a world of mystery and adventure for Jack and Annie, two little children that discover this magical tree house.
The tree house takes them on wild adventures where they are the heros and always have to save someone or something.
Children can also have the added benefit of having the opportunity to read not just one put over 30 books in this series.
Highly recommend for children who love reading about mystery/detective type stories.
That I really enjoyed to read and have connections to.
I finished this book in not even a day for how much I enjoyed to read it.
I read this book with great fluency and the book also influenced me to read more of that serious in books.I would rate this book in between 4 and 5 because there were some parts n the book that I wanted to skip and not read but I read it anyway.
There were also more parts in the book that really caught my attention and also impressed me.
I normally do not read that much but when I read this book It caught my attention so much that I felt like reading another book.
The Knight at Dawn is the second book in the Magic Tree House series.
I read this to my six year old and he absolutely loved it.
My three year old also sat through the story with us and she loved it as well, though she did have a few questions.
She had a harder time understanding the story.
All in all we love the Magic Tree House stories and plan to continue on with the series.
I definitely recommend this book to people with young children who love stories with action, and easy to understand dialogue!
Okay so I probably would not read this book in English; however, I read this book in spanish. In Spanish it is called, El Caballero del Alba. It is a great book for first or 2nd year Spanish readers. Reading this book in Spanish is a great way to keep up on your Spanish.
Mother Read: 8/2/16Oldest Son Read:
The knight at Dawn was a good book. They go walking, see a fight, and help Jack. I like when they go to the castle. I would recommend this book to Richi or Alex because it's a beautiful book.
“The Knight at Dawn” by Mary Pope Osborne is the second book in the Magic Tree House book series.
The book starts off that the previous day Jack and his sister Annie found a tree house in the frog creek woods which was full of books.
While Jack wanted to leave Annie found a book about knights on black horses.
The rest of the book takes place in the medieval time period with knights and dungeons.
The author gives very good, detailed descriptions of the setting and how it is at the time period.I would recommend this book to elementary through middle school kids who are looking for a good book series to read.
It starts off when Jack and Annie find a book about a castle and then are send back in time to medieval times.
She is very out going and is not afraid to get introuble.The setting of this story starts off in the magic treehouse but then moves to a castle in Camelot.
In this book Jack and Annie have to work together to try and get away from the guard and home safely.I did not really enjoy this book.
There are some graphic sentences in the story that are not for children who read these books.
I really liked this book because I have always liked knights and castles and stuff of that sort.
They run and hide in an armoury but Jack ends up falling into a bunch of armor because he has a knights helmet on his head.
Annie uses the flashlight to scare the 3 men and her and Jack end up fleeing to a storeroom, where using the map in the book from the tree house they find a trap door.
Jack and Annie warp back to their time and Jack later discovers a bookmark from one of the tree house books in his backpack.
The book I read was Magic Tree House “The Knight at Dawn.” I like the book because it talks about a young boy named Jack who can’t sleep.
He has trouble sleeping, so he finds a book to read.
Annie, his sister, wakes up and talks to Jack.
It is very dark, and they try to find their way out by using the lamp.
Annie jumps after him.
It is too dark for them to see, but they can hear each other.
They return back to the treehouse.Jack and Annie are the two kids involved in the story.
Jack is nine and Annie is seven.
Jack and Annie are two young kids that are in their tree house.
Annie makes the wish that sends them to the medieval ages.
The Knight helps the two kids escape from the castle and return home safely.The setting mainly takes place at a castle in the 11th century.
Annie wanted to meet a knight and ended up in a castle being arrested and possibly being hanged.
They were then able to escape with the aid of a knight and transported back to their own time period.I would recommend this book to young readers because it is a very easy read.
The book starts off by saying that Jack and his sister Annie found a tree house in the frog creek woods which was full of books.
One night later, Annie went into Jacks room when she couldn't fall asleep and convinced Jack to come with her to the tree house.
When they got inside Annie wishes them to become knights in armor.
At the beginning is takes place in frog creek where the tree house is.
Later it is when they are back in time that the setting is told in.I would recommend this book to kids in middle school and maybe younger.
I liked how the books continue along and you have to read one in order to understand the other.The main idea is for Jack and Annie go back in time to the 11th century where there are knights and castles.
They are searching for what the letter m is all about and they try to sneak in a castle and hide.
The letter M is not discovered by the end of this book.The main characters are Jack and Annie.
The book that i read is called The Night At Dawn (Magic Tree House) and it was written by Mary Pope Osborn.
The book is about two kids Jack and Anny that go to a magic tree house that takes them where ever they want to go.
One thing that i really like about this book is that it is adventure and magical book which is my favorite type of book.
I also really like the story line and how everything happens a certain way.
My favorite part is when Jack and Anny go sneaking around the castle of the nights of the round table.
not my taste and I think the writing is horrible.
I know this book is meant for an early reader to read themselves, but he doesn't quite read yet and we are reading this series to him on recommendation.
I like the idea behind it and the little guy likes the adventure, but the writing is BAD.
But, beside the bad writing in this one, you have a boring plot that really doesn't involve doing much other than creeping into a castle and peeking in doorways.
As an adult, I can figure it out from the situation...but the book was written for 4 - 7.
Overall, this was a quick read.
I loved the fact that this series is an ongoing mystery.
Each book has a clue that leads to something significant.
The stories keep getting better,but I love them equally.
The whole time I was skimming the book and I still understood what happened.
I agree with what I said in my review about the first book of the series.My elementary self would loved, but as of now, it was okay.
Although, it did bring nostalgia to me as I was reading this book and possibly continuing the series.
This is the first Magic Tree House book I have read (we skipped the first but will go back and read it).
I love being able to ask my son what he thought would happen to Jack and Annie on their adventure.
Our favorite part was when Annie was quick thinking enough to use her flashlight as a magic wand.
My son enjoyed it so much he wanted to get the 3rd as soon as we closed the cover on the second.
I'm so excited to be reading these books to help develop a love of reading in my son.
The Knight at Dawn is fantasy.
I gave it three stars because sometimes, I don't like it because they're talked about the knight at dawn, it sound like so quite, bored and dark but my favorite part is three huge men, one with very squinty eyes held the torch.
One with a very red face held Jack.
And one with very long mustache held on to Annie because I think it's funny when the one with the very red face said, ''Who art thou?'' The squinty- eyed one said ''Spies?
Annie said, no, you dummies!But some of them is bored.
Don't judge me.I stole this from my public library. A long time ago I checked this book out for some AR points, yeah this was a long time ago. Once the checkout time arrived, I had literally no idea where it went. Guess what? I just found it. Eventually my mom just bought the book from the library, since my attempts of searching were no good.I've read 50 of the Magic Tree House books because I LOVED them. Most of my childhood was imagining what it would be like if I had a teleported tree house.
It is a sequel to Magic Tree House: Dinosaurs Before Dark.
The same children, Jack and Annie, go into the treehouse and look at a book about a medieval Scottish castle and find themselves in the same sort of situation as last time.
They get captured by the guards and can barely find the book that takes them home.I think it was as good as the last one, except this time it is people, not dinosaurs that are the enemies.I learned a bit about history.
I learned that there were rumors that there were crocodiles in motes and what they ate in Scottish castles.
The two kids awere in the old time because they was looking for a knight. I liked the book because there was sum cool stuffin in the book.FOR esapul a boy name jack was in a hamet.If you like funny adventurous books, you should rand it .
All through the story it builds up a lot of suspense.
Frog Creek, Pennsylvania: It is now late night of the day that eight-year-old Jack and his sister, seven-year-old Annie, happened upon a tree house that transported them to the age of dinosaurs.
Could they do so again, maybe to a different time and place, by picking up another book in the tree house and wishing out loud they were there?
They might need a little extra help for that to happen, but fortunately a helper is waiting outside the castle, if the two modern-day kids can complete their escape.The Knight at Dawn is a good followup to Dinosaurs Before Dark, book one in the long-running Magic Tree House series.
In the 2 magic tree house book jack and annie went back to medieval times.Annie wanted to explore th
Annie is the free spirited little idiot sister who decides for both of them, "I wish to see THAT knight on the horse" after Jack screams, "NOOOOOO".
She then gets up and leave Jack bc she wants to see the feast and hear the music upclose and personal.Jack is scientific and Annie is a spoiled brat who can somehow relate to animals and thusly get them to help them out.They get captured and then they get rescued by THAT KNIGHT.
