https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80059.The_Groves_of_Academe
Interesting to wonder why Mary McCarthy's 'Groves' is so little read, while 'Stoner' is re-released to great acclaim seemingly every five years I hear my wife calling, she says, "Gee, why could this book by a woman that's just like that book by a man be less highly rated even though it's just as good and about the same tings: English department at a small regional school that's a little bit quirky and prone to infighting and incompetence.
Just when I thought I had a good handle on the moral framework of the book, McCarthy compares the 'villain' to Christ, in a good way.
Regarding the faculty:“Everyone felt called to stipulate, like a lawyer, his own degree of interest in the case, and to distinguish his own area of human solidarity from that of his neighbor, carefully set up boundaries and limits, eminent domain.” “These continuous factional disputes and ideological scandals were a form of spiritual luxury that satisfied the higher cravings for polemic, gossip, and backbiting without taking the baser shape, so noticeable in the larger universities, of personal competition and envy.
*whistles* Goodness, what a scathing literary commentary on liberal arts schools.
She has nailed the aspirations of liberal arts schools, the petty politics, the process of mellowing (or radicalizing) that comes with age, the physical feel of such a campus - and it makes for an incredibly amusing read.
For all its timelessness, it's also a product of the McCarthy era, of a pre-Civil RIghts America, of a time when anti-Semitism ran rife in plain sight, and McCarthy is as unforgiving in skewering the way self-avowed liberals are still prejudiced creatures as she is in damning her protagonist through his foibles.
A similarity is that in both books the colleges are small and progressive though the stories are 30 years apart in time.Henry Mulcahy, middle-aged, unsuccessful, overburdened, renegade literature instructor, gets a letter from President Maynard Hoar informing him that his appointment will not be confirmed in the next academic year.
More than that, the political implications aside, the entire novel is a continuous spoof on colleges, progressive education, the claustrophobic infighting and personality conflicts on a small campus, topped off by a hilarious send up on poets.Mary McCarthy is a perceptive, intellectually rigorous writer and assumes that her readers are on a similar level.
Then I put it down and after that it was a real pain to pick back up and continue with the same level of enthusiasm.I thought it would be good to read after finishing Owen Johnson's Stover at Yale - Stover was an undergraduate beginning his first year at Yale, and the protagonist of McCarthy's book was Henry Mulcahey, a professor at a progressive college.
Stover spent the majority of his time trying to figure out where and how on campus he would fit, while Mulcahey discovers in the first chapter of his story that he has been denied reappointment in the academic field.
Imagine Nabokov's Pnin. Then imagine the protagonist is Pnin's evil twin.
I might have not appreciated this book as much had I not gone to Film school for five years - or any other Arts/Humanities course for that matter.The description of the minds and quarrels and attitudes and dialogues of scholars is just perfect.
It's a very toxic environment established by smart people who were led to think at some point in their lives that they are smarter than the others.There are many interesting discussions concerning all the different branches connected with thought: philosophy, morality, religion, social sciences, politics and, of course, literature.
Yeah, I just don't care.
Its students were neither to till the soil as at Antioch nor weave on looms as at Black Mountain; they were to be grounded neither in the grass-roots present as at Sarah Lawrence, nor the great-books past, as at St. John's and Chicago."
A funny, smart, and insightful book that felt, to me at least, as also marking the end of a certain kind of literature.
I understand that the drama is about the fate of Hen's soul, and that of Maynard and maybe to a lesser degree Domna, but even with those souls hanging in the balance, this seemed a little slight.Which is not to say I didn't enjoy it; but I'm also glad that fiction moved into other areas, post this particular form of modernism-- into fragmentation, and stylistic experimentation, and also embracing the idea of the protagonist as representative rather than eccentric, since it opens the book up to being of greater moment, aesthetically and culturally.
Begins as a character and social study of a brilliant, arrogant academic at a small progressive private college in the fraught political climate of post-war America trying to save his job while stoking up his sense of misunderstood martyrdom, then veers into an entertaining satirical portrait of academia, the academic tendency to argue oneself into immobility, and the contemporary art scene (with the very funny scenes at a poetry conference held at the college). Insightful, fascinating bits along the way, but the book as a whole never quite coheres into a narrative whole.
This is an enjoyably brutal romp through the absurdities of academia and academics. McCarthy's prose is deliciously and mercilessly precise as she skewers the foibles of a small liberal arts college community during the heady days of the Red Scare and experimental poetry. Much in the machinations of college administrators, faculty, and students is firmly rooted in this specific cultural context; much, for better and for worse, is instantly recognizable to anyone who has spent time among the groves of academe.
A fierce battle for little gain Those argumentative people in your classes who would argue for its own sake, well many of them became academics. After 45 years in academia, I had the bad fortune to see many of them split departments and colleges into factions, with no one the winner.
satire of a 'progressive' private school, circa '50s Red Scare. Shifts characters from chapter to chapter, possibly to show instability of point of view during the plots of scheming, manipulation, and revenge. Caps it off with a 'conference of poets,' which gives ample opportunity for a more removed perspective to provide commentary.
A classic academic novel. McCarthy writes beautiful prose, and can be quite funny, but the novel feels dated and arch. All of the characters are eloquent but self-absorbed, and the pleasure of seeing through the self-interestedness of everyone's motives in each and every scene soon begins to pale. A plot would have been nice, too.
Not my tasteI struggled to interest myself in the problems of the characters. The conflicts were primarily internal and academic and require tedious conversations to unwind. In the end, it was of little interest to me whether the unpleasant protagonist met an unpleasant end of not.
I had to drop this book. After 4 months of trying to get through it I just gave up. The language in the book is dated. The character descriptions are funny and very elaborate but go on and on and eventually lost me. Probably a good book for book on tape when one can't get to sleep. On to the next book - Hurray!
Excellent novel set in a 'progressive' college in the throes of McCarthyism. Rather like if one of the Great American Novellists (TM) actually realised what a repellent human being their self-insert main male characters were.
I generally love campus novels, and this one started out with real promise. But by the second half, I was dragging myself through because I cared just enough (barely) to want to see how things wrapped up. Uneven, to say the least.
An interesting and entertaining book about academic retribution. Not McCarthy's best, but better than SOOOOOO many other books on academia.
The first chapter is great.
Hard to finish and datedBut I finished it
A unique and challenging novel. One that I must revisit in the future.
Unless you're in college (as I was the first time I read it), you're not interested.
A biting academic satire. The first chapter was truly brilliant.
Mary McCarthy's "The Groves of Academe" is a perceptive novel of 1952 examining academic politics at a fictional medium-size experimental college in east-central Pennsylvania.
It is informed by her experience teaching at two private liberal arts colleges.
My (educated) guess is that McCarthy accurately characterizes a number of academic sorts and some students.
The professor once had Communist associations, and the action is set in the (Joseph) McCarthy era, but that plot device set among others does not seriously outdate the novel.This is commended primarily to academics and college graduates and students, especially of medium-size liberal arts colleges.
So this was like a new reading of McCarthy.
The question is was she like that before Vassar College or did they form her or was she formed on the job?
Wish I had read this book before I hurried off to graduate school.
Have driven by a number of those small private colleges.
I wondered throughout the entire reading of the novel, whether McCarthy had studied a book of American Idioms and Quotations or something because she wrote several idioms or quotations into each chapter.
But will reading and studying her œuvre get me closer to being a humanities scholar?
Author with a brutal eye, fierce vocabulary: closing set piece at the poet's conference is ruthlessly funny. Describes a long-winded audience question from a man at poet event as being a "spermy question" which made me laugh for an hour.
A densely written slow-go. There may be gold, but I stopped digging.
really enjoyable poke at the academe world that was written in 1951 but seems to readily apply to the present time. Fun reading!
