https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70251.Concrete_Island
And anyone can feel lonely in a crowd…In fact, the whole city was now asleep, part of an immense unconscious Europe, while he himself crawled about on a forgotten traffic island like the nightmare of this slumbering continent.So Concrete Island can be read as a parable of alienation of an individual in the vast urbanized world.He realized, above all, that the assumption he had made repeatedly since his arrival on the island – that sooner or later his crashed car would be noticed by a passing driver or policeman, and that rescue would come as inevitably as if he had crashed into the central reservation of a suburban dual carriageway – was completely false, part of that whole system of comfortable expectations he had carried with him.
The theme of isolation in The Drowned World is even more pronounced in Concrete Island.
This is something I liked in The Drowned World: the way Ballard combines the inner world and the outer world.Maitland is alienated from his family, from his mistress (and the presence of a mistress only reinforces his alienation from his wife), and from society.
Just like in The Drowned World, Ballard introduces more characters and action in the second half of the book, but I think it works better in Concrete Island than it did in The Drowned World.
Affluent Robert Maitland crashes his Jaguar on a precipitous traffic island such as we see all the time occupying the waste ground between ramps and highways.
By this time, though he won't admit it, or won't accept it--his position is never made entirely clear--he doesn't want to leave the traffic island.
This leaves the reader with an almost vertiginous effect, as if the traffic island were somehow in motion, instead of static.
Certainly the breezy reader, rushing ever onward solely for the sake of plot, would hardly notice.) Except for a rare turgid patch where a metaphor or a bit of description doesn't quite work, the novel is highly readable.
Interesting concept.
a man crashes his car and ends up in a concrete wasteland between motorways.
His injuries from the crash are such that he cannot climb the embankment back up to the road.How does he survive?Over the period of a few days he manages to create a precarious life whilst all around him the relentless traffic flows by, oblivious to him and his fateThere is even a small community living on the island, comprising a paranoid prostitute and a former trapeze artist who has fallen on his head once too oftenWill they help him escape?Interesting dystopian read, if a little dated
Concrete Island: Stranded in modernity like a latter-day CrusoeOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureIn the early 1970s, J.G. Ballard was busily creating modern fables of mankind’s increasingly urban environment and the alienating effect on the human psyche.
But when conditions change, their primitive urges and psychopathologies emerge to horrifying effect.In Concrete Island, a modern-day retelling of Robinson Crusoe, Ballard introduces the most unlikely set-piece for a modern novel, an overlooked patch in our overdeveloped cities, a triangular overgrown traffic island bordered by two expressways.
Proctor is strong but subservient to Jane, and she lives a strange decadent existence, turning tricks with passing motorists and smoking marijuana in an abandoned theatre.When Maitland first encounters the two, they control the situation but extend aid to him.
Every time I finish a J.G. Ballard novel (Concrete Island is my fourth in the last year or so) I think two things: 1) hey, that was pretty terrific; 2) it's a shame I didn't read it ten years ago.
The 29-year-old me thinks Ballard was a hell of a writer, but the 19-year-old me, the guy who couldn't stop listening to Kid A and Hex Enduction Hour on repeat, who was obsessively taking in screenings of Safe and Persona and Red Desert at his campus's theater, who was beginning to transfer his book-love from Paul Park's Celestis and John Crowley's The Deep to the novels of DeLillo...that guy would've worshiped Ballard, and found in him a real life companion.
I gotta hand it to Ballard: there hasn't been one book I've read of his where, halfway through, I'm not ready to yank my fucking hair out only to have him pull it out of his ass.
My theory: his storylines are so ridiculously preposterous (and escalating exponentially page-by-page) that by the time he goes to pull all the threads together, it just works out of some weird logic that you have to acknowledge is pretty darn original.
And he has for, dunno, something like 5 books now.
Traveling west from New York City, to Newark Airport or down the coast or inland and away, on a PATH train or New Jersey Transit or in a car on the highway, you first have to cross the Meadowlands.
Naturally, I've become fascinated with this empty overlooked space as a destination, a place to wander and spend time -- and if crossed, only on foot.
This often leaves me in conflict with the general planning or lack thereof of the terrain, leaping crash barriers to dart across empty Garden State Parkway ramps, or ducking between concrete parapets beneath highway overpasses.
A haunting tale, throbbing in its urban insecurity, matters of quotidian angst reach crisis. Each daytrader becomes a Crusoe. It is imperative that the reader control its breathing. Once the cast expanded, about half way through, the tension dropped considerably and a different game was unleashed, different and not near as compelling. This becomes a dialogue about conformity, productivity. Matters become controlled when steered by a bank account. I still enjoyed Concrete Island immensely.
It seems like most people are usually down on Ballard because he deals with uncomfortable themes, but I would think anyone who is a serious student of writing would want to give him a look because of his brilliant writing style.Robert Maitland is a successful architect with questionable priorities.
These chapters, first published in 1973, would convince any judge in a court of law that Ballard is entitled to a percentage of McCarthy's big fat check for 'The Road' if Ballard was feeling litigious.As things are looking worse for Maitland, he is picked up by two denizens of the island, Proctor and Jane Sheppard.
This is 1973, prior to the development of cellphones, so despite being in sight of a busy road he is marooned as effectively as Robinson Crusoe.And of course, while the island is small, there are no guarantees that Maitland is alone...Ballard is great at making the normal abnormal, at skewing mundanity into weirdness and horror, and he makes the rubbish-strewn and overgrown no-mans-land between the freeways into a unique and desperate little world that his protagonist must struggle against to survive.We follow Maitland in this struggle and watch as his desire to escape is tested, and his motivations in general come into question.As his strength wanes and his thoughts become blurred from hunger and illness he begins to wonder: did he subconsciously contrive to put himself on the island?

When I was in my twenties I read J G Ballard’s novel “Empire of the Sun”.
Unable to climb the embankments because of his injuries, he has to work out a way of surviving.It’s very difficult to say more about the plot without giving away spoilers, so I’ll just say that the storyline held my interest all the way, and to the end I remained curious about Maitland’s eventual fate.
Genç bir mimar olan Robert Maitland, Londra’daki ofisinden evine doğru yol alırken, aracının lastiğinin patlaması sonucu otoyolların kesiştiği, otlarla kaplı noktaya, trafik adası olarak adlandırılan yere düşer.
Kurtulmak için her yolu deneyen Maitland, şehirdeki duyarsız insanlarla dolu bu yoldan kurtulmanın kolay olmadığını kısa süre sonra acı bir şekilde tecrübe edecektir.Beklenmedik bir anda tüm o modern imkanlarını yitirip, ilkel bir çağa dönen Maitland bir şekilde hayatta kalmak, işi ve ailesine geri dönmek zorundadır.
Ballard acımıyor bizlere, yerden yere vuruyor.
Hemen hemen tüm eserlerinde insanın dönüşümünü odak noktasına oturtan, uzayı değil, insanları en ince ayrıntısına dek irdeleyen yazardan şaşırtmayan, güçlü bir eser.- Bahri Doğukan ŞAHİNİncelemenin tamamı için: http://www.kayiprihtim.org/portal/inc...
It was great by any Ballardian standards, but I feel that the allegory overtook the narrative and the characters a little bit compared to HIGH RISE.
CONCRETE ISLAND is more the living embodiment of an idea than an actual novel.
Because if you do, it can get a little boring.
The best way I can describe CONCRETE ISLAND is ROBINSON CRUSOE meets LOST.
The island where Robert Maitland has fallen on has "claimed" him for a reason he's not ready to face yet.
This is stimulating, but nowhere near as multidimensional at HIGH RISE is.
And a little exhausting.
Being stranded and forgotten about (a modern treasure island) in today's London is surely not possible with CCTV and mobile phones. When this was published though perhaps what happens was an actual possibility.Regardless, I enjoyed this book, well written and brilliantly presented. Characters plausible and overall, a great read.
This is a slightly terrifying book.
I wasn't sure how the author was going to pull off the plausibility of it all.
Robert Maitland, architect, Londoner, crashes his car into an embankment in London, an island, and histrionics of various degrees ensue.
What seems to be a predicament that can be easily fixed turns out to be not only much harder to remedy but a predicament that veers into hellacious.
The thing is, with all of this, he's not alone.
I can't say more.I know there's a lesson in here and I suspect I didn't catch it because I was too busy being totally freaked out.
Ballard in the Seventies was a true artist. I love how obsessive these novels are, each one picking apart the cold voidyness of cars, concrete, high-rises but also maybe saying these things are just reflections of our own unnatural selves (in a Ballardian twist my copy has the wrong blurb on the back so the fact that nothing happened as described just confused my dough-brain even more than usual).
Mi è piaciuto lo spunto narrativo e mi è piaciuta la scrittura di Ballard, dai suoi romanzi sono stati realizzati due capolavori cinematografici come L'impero del sole di Steven Spielberg e Crash di Paul Haggis [nel frattempo mi si è fatto notare che è un altro il Crash di Ballard], ma poi mi è sembrato si perdesse un po' per strada rischiando di diventare inconcludente e di tralasciare tutti quei simboli e quei messaggi di speranza disseminati nella prima parte della storia.Insomma le mie tre stelline non sono proprio piene, oscillano continuamente verso il basso :-)
Es mi primer Ballard y, pese a que la calidad del autor está fuera de toda duda, mi impresión, que por lo que he visto comparte más de uno, es que no se trata de una de sus mejores obras.
El libro tiene una serie de virtudes que son muy meritorias, destacando la propia escritura y arquitectura del mismo: - El planteamiento de partida resulta tan rocambolesco que atrae muchísimo.

The formula for this is pretty straightforward, goes something like this,Robinson Crusoe - the ocean and Robinson himself + an arrogant British businessman, a load of tarmac and a couple of weirdos = Concrete Island...oh hang on, better just add a sprinkling of dystopia to the mix, there that's about right.
If you think about it, the notion of a man who gets stuck on a traffic island, a patch of wasteland at the intersection of the new motorway network, is something which could also have been done by the contemporaneous ‘Monty Python's Flying Circus’.
But Ballard – from that period in the early seventies when he was at his visionary best – takes the situation entirely seriously, thinking logically and sensibly about how this would happen and what the poor castaway would have to do to survive and try to ensure his rescue.Although if it was written today the author would have to explain what happened to the lead character's mobile phone, this still feels a fresh and contemporary novel.
35-year-old architect Robert Maitland is driving along the orbital road, Westway, in London, when he loses control of his Jaguar, ploughs through the barriers and plummets onto an underpass.
Having injured his leg in the crash, our protagonist, unable to make it back to road, finds himself stranded on this concrete island.
A febrile Maitland faces physical torment, including acute hunger, but he also has periods of psychological contentment.
Maitland is not alone in this underworld.
There are two residents — a capricious socialist called Jane and an ungainly simpleton by the name of Proctor.There are obvious parallels between Concrete Island and Robinson Crusoe.


Short, direct novel on the isolation of man surrounded by stone and metal. Sometimes being alone and without troubles is the best choice. A robinson crusoe for the modern man.
Unusual and intriguing little book with a predictable, yet fitting, ending.
Ballard does the introduction to the book himself and talks about Robinson Crusoe and how it makes you think of humanity and the way we interact; or fail to interact as the case may be.The premise sounds simple and it is; a guy crashes his car into a concrete divide area near a motorway and is unable to escape due to the layout and circumstances.
Due to the short book length and the focus of the book being on the exploration of thoughts given I won't say more other than I'm very glad I read this.A remarkable piece of writing which makes me want to read more Ballard even sooner than planned.
Then people think he's just a homeless guy and won't stop for him.
I wouldn't really suggest it for anyone, just because it was weird and hard to follow.But on the awesome side, it did make me start thinking of personal survival tactics for if I ever become stranded/homeless/jobless/shelterless.
Seriously, think of the free food each night!
But as a homeless person, I think it sounds like a great idea.
Here is my serious review:This book made me think of it as a metaphor for depression.
