https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4662.The_Short_Stories
Everybody thinks Fitzgerald = Gatsby, but his real talent lies in short fiction.
I will glove slap anyone who doesn't think that "Babylon Revisited" is the perfect short story.
Gatsby has nothing on Babylon.With few exceptions, the pieces in this collection (it's not exhaustive, but it's still pretty robust) range from "charming" to "fucking incredible." Plus it's edited by Matthew Bruccoli, who is THE MAN on all things Fitzgerald, so there is a detailed introduction and informative headnotes to each selection.
If you want a nice single-volume overview of Fitzgerald's short story writing career, this is it.
Of course, this is where Fitzgerald made his money, so the stories tend to lean more toward entertainment than does his "serious" work.
If kids were forced to read that and "The Diamond as Big as the Ritz", perhaps more people would be Fitzgerald fans.
Or perhaps not.So as I continue to read, more and more stories echo or foreshadow The Great Gatsby, which I suppose is not much of a surprise.
Antras susitikimas su Fitzgerald'u ir nė kiek nenusivyliau. Kaip tik pakerėjo. Spalvinga, jaučiama prabanga, o kartu ir skausmas, keisti siekiai bei susipainiojimas, aukštuomenės išsišokimai bei vertybių ieškojimas. Apsakymai susiję su prarastąja karta, kiekviena istorija kažkuo panaši ir kitokia. Nupiešia viena po kito geresnį paveikslą. Nesinori baigti knygos ir atsisveikinti, gerai, kad lentynoje turiu dar vieną jo knygą.
I have read this book countless times. If you only ever buy one F. Scott book, buy this one. His development as an author unfolds before your eyes as you read his early stories of ambitious youth and eventually wander into his later tales of reflection on human frailty. From Bernice and her Bob to Emotional Bankruptcy and everything in between, this is a collection of short stories to keep on your bedside table for a lifetime.
I had a feeling I'd love him - and in a way I was "reserving" him in my mind as something exceptional for a difficult time - but I had no idea of how much I'd love him!
Even though I read these short stories in a very old and stilted Greek translation from the early 60s, I'm in awe of his writing skills and of the totally original and penetrating way he treated his subjects that were very removed from my usual interests.
Can't wait to buy his whole œuvre - in the original English this time!
5⭐-;4⭐- May Day, The diamond as big as the Ritz, The Rich Boy, Gretchen's Forty Winks, Babylon revis
We all know I’m giving this as many stars as I can possibly give, so let’s just go ahead and take care of that right now. A constellation and a galaxy of Gatsby’s silver-peppered stars. Also, in case you’re wondering, “The Ice Palace” and “The Offshore Pirate” are two of my favorite stories of all time.
Its a three and a half star book, the boring stories, Benediction and the Camel's Back getting two stars each and the really good ones, Bernice and Benjamin Button getting four.
Scott Fitzgerald told it better than anyone.The last story, the Lees of Happiness, meandered hither and thither and there was an overdone contrast between the bleached blonde and the good woman who stood by her man 'til the very end.
I think my sympathies were supposed to lie with the virtue of the good woman and so they did, until the end.
There are times when Fitzgerald can quite literally make me gasp, sigh, laugh, become teary-eyed, or even place a hand over my heart as I am reading; he is just one of those authors with the beautiful ability to transcend the page and put the story's very breath right into me.
There are stories in here that are pure beauty, there are those that are mediocre, and there are those that I was bored to pieces with.My favorites of the collection:Head and ShouldersThe Ice PalaceThe Offshore PirateThe BowlAt Your AgeThe SwimmersTwo WrongsThe Bridal PartyBabylon RevisitedCrazy SundayAfternoon of an Author (this one doesn't actually have nearly as much emotional power as the others, actually, but I'm including it here because it's a great little satire on the life of a writer and really lets Fitzgerald show off his wit and humor)
My friend recommended this book, and I really wanted to like it. While Fitzgerald's pedigree cannot be debated, this anthology is a good example of drinking from a fire hose. How many stories of Ivy League socialites or bored Southern heiresses does one need? For me the answer is about 300 pages fewer than the 750 contained in this volume.Skip around and skim - there's plenty to enjoy here, but no need to take in everything. Special mention must be made of "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button," Fitzgerald's wildly imaginative tale of a man who ages backward.
Прочетох разказите на Фитцджералд, които издаде списание "Биограф" - една много малка книжка, за съжаление не виждам това изданние в ГР и поради това избрах по-общо наименование.
Книгата ми хареса, пренесе ме с лекота в 30-те години на миналия век, време, чийто дух и особености авторът е уловил и показал по много един лек, ненатрапчив начин, с чувство за тънък хумор.
За мен в последно време разказът като жанр е сред любимите.
От Фитцджералд бях чела само "Нежна е нощта" преди години и ми беше оставила много хубав спомен.
Затова с удоволствие се потопих в неговите разкази.
И ми беше приятно.
fitzgerald is my favorite short story author of all time. he is one of the few writers (including even the great flannery, herself) that can hold my attention throughout an entire book of short stories. most authors seem to delve into formulaic patterns of how they write stories. fitzgerald stand firm, funny, witty, a little sad round the edges, attempting to keep the sparkle in the eyes, knowing that the lights gone out...
Есть Волосы Вероники и другие крутые рассказы, но в целом — только убить время чужими придуманными заботами
Somewhat uneven, but the good ones are dang good. "Bernice Bobs Her Hair," "The Ice Palace," and "The Swimmers" were my favorites.
Люблю я все произведения Фицджеральда. Есть в них этот дикий отчаянный безнадежный романтизм♥ И описания Нью-Йорка - это что-то необыкновенное! Полностью погружаешься в его атмосферу и стараешься узнать о нем больше.
Scott: "My whole theory of writing I can sum up in one sentence.
As writers do, his writings always involved what he new from his own life: Ivy League schools, deb culture, intermingling classes, the society of the 20's and 30's, roller-coaster finances, travel, love and loss, and human growth.
I think it unfair to discount Fitzgerald's perspective and clarity of mind simply because of his subject matter.As was so poignantly captured in "Dearly Beloved", youth was the strength of Fitzgerald's understanding.
Not the physical vigor or potential prowess of it, but the dreaming and looking to a better day.
But what better day is there than being in youth?
This was an excellent collection, an excellent read and I feel I now know the writer and would tell anyone that I prefer his short stories to his novels.
I stand his work up well with Hemingway's, and of course he has his own post-war flavor and a unique gift for phrasing.
Some of the stories in the later portion of the book deserve a mention, as I've mentioned others along the way...The Swimmers was cool how the swimming actually became the thing that leveraged the rights to the character's child away from the antagonist in the boat.
Babylon Revisited is one that stands out as well, with its autobiographical elements and story of the character trying to redeem himself and get his daughter.
Loved this collection.
I am a huge fan of The Great Gatsby but haven't read anything else's of Fitzgerald's until now.
I usually have a hard time reading an entire collection of a writer's work, and though this took me awhile, it was more because of the length than the content.
I impressed but he breadth of situations Fitzgerald covered, from childhood to teenage years, relationships, engagements, and marriage, personal issues like alcoholism, and even a bit of fantasy (The Diamond as Big as the Ritz).
So if you don't want to read each story, you might be able to decide based on the context.
The only other book of short stories I have ever read had been "Barrel Fever" by David Sedaris, and having also read "Gatsby", I expected this to be very different.
My two favorite stories had to be The Offshore Pirate and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, (ironically the first and last stories in the book.) The Offshore Pirate was about Ardita, a young, spunky woman who found herself being swept away by an unlikely pirate.
Benjamin Button was the story of a man who aged backwards (you may have seen the film).
Scott Fitzgerald wrote the McDonald's menu I would thoroughly enjoy that as well.
He wrote with an unmatchable grace.
Although Fitzgerald is best remembered for his novels, particularly The Great Gatsby, a perenniel of high school curriculae, he was like his sometime friend, Ernest Hemingway, a master of the short story. Perhaps because he wasn't burdened with the need to write the great American novel, he let his sense of whimsy, play and pathos have full play. "Bernice Bobs her Hair" and the "Diamond as Big as the Ritz" were particularly memorable and both captured the exurbance and hope, not to mention the frantic pursuit of fun, that marked the Roaring Twenties.
Wow, I had no idea that F.
Scott Fitzgerald practiced writing The Great Gatsby by writing a ton of short stories with the same theme.
Poor boy, rich girl...ugh.
Don't get me wrong.
I love The Great Gatsby and I LOVE the way Fitzgerald writes, but I got hung up so long on that string of "Gatsby Stories" I didn't finish the book before the library said I had too many renewals...meaning I had the book for over 2 months and had to turn it in.
I will come back and finish it someday.
There are a few real gems in there.
Masterful short-story writer. For me, the greatest American writer ever. It's little quotes like the ones below that always stun me. "Dexter stood perfectly still, his mouth slightly ajar. He knew that if he moved forward a step his stare would be in her line of vision- if he moved backward he would lose his full view of her face.""Well, let it pass, he thought; April is over, April is over. There are all kinds of love in the world, but never the same love twice."
I love them all. I reread them for the lyricsm of his writing. I'm reminded of the scene in Good Will Hunting when Will is describing how he cannot play the piano (it's a bunch of keys), but that he can see a math equation and it makes sense. Words made sense to Fitzgerald like no one before or after.
Not every story is a five-star story, but when a great author writes for booze money, you still get quality stuff. I recommend "The Off-Shore Pirate" as a starting point. It doesn't get much better than that.
this book kept close, on my library shelf is one I grab every time I need a bit of cheering up. The early stories are my favorite as I've always been interested in the 20's and Fitzgerald seems to tell it all. Makes my day.
Do yourself a favor and read short stories, especially old serials by the masters. I was intrigued by The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, but was delighted to find that there were many more of that quality and higher in FSF's arsenal.
Highly recommend it to all of you who search for a view of US culture from the inside.
He may write one hell of a novel, but Fitzgerald is actually one of my all-time favorite short story writers.
I did not know that FSF wrote The Curious Case of Benjamin Button or that it was even a short story. Interesting, but I can't imagine a full length movie of it.
