https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8818.One_Hand_Clapping
Bir dil uzmanı olan Burgess sade cümleler ve yalın bir anlatım kullanmış, altını çizeyim dediğim cümle sayısı çok azdı.
Çok kısa sürede okunabilecek bir kitap.
Okurken aklıma Orwell'in Boğulmamak İçin isimli kitabı geldi.
Burgess'in Orwell'a cevaben yazdığı "1985" isimli bir kitabı da var.
Belki de bu yüzden.Biraz arka planda kalan bir kadının ağzından bir bilgi yarışmasında önemli miktarda ikramiye kazanan eşiyle olan hikayesini anlatıyor.
Eşi (Howard) biraz daha ilginç bir karakter, fotoğrafik hafızaya sahip, dürüstlükten taviz vermeyen bir otomobil satıcısı.
Olayların nasıl geliştiğini spoiler vermeden anlatmak benim için çok zor.
Kitaptaki karakterlerden birinin soyadı da Glass olunca Burgess Salinger'e bir gönderme mi yapıyor diye düşündüm.
I really liked this book. It's a definite classic, but more than that, it's also way ahead of its time as far as innovation and imagination goes, with amazing characters and a peculiarly original plot.
Wonderful book, like dark chocolate -- so sweet yet bitter at the same time.
Janet Shirley is so much fun as a narrator, she's the perfect foil for Alex in A CLOCKWORK ORANGE.
Only little by little do you notice that she's not much interested in other people, only in her own pleasures.
But Burgess understands that Howard is just as dishonest about the past as popular culture is about the present.
At one point Janet innocently remarks that Howard "is selling the past just like he sells one of his used cars" and that really sums it up.
Soyadının anlamı "şehirli" olan yazardan taşra geleneklerine, evlilik kurumunun ikiyüzlülüğüne, tüketim toplumuna, kolaycılığa, eğitim sistem(ler)inin eksikliklerine, İngiliz toplumunun şişirilmiş egolarına güzel bir taşlama.
Bana daha önce okuduğum ve benzer şekilde emek ya da altyapı olmaksızın ünlü, "önemli" ve hatta zengin olabilmenin eleştirisini yapan Jerzy Kosinsky kitabı "Being There"i (Bir Yerde) hatırlattı.
Kitaptaki kadın kahraman bizim coğrafyamızda da var olan ve bizimkilerden en azından farklı şekilde "çok cahildim, ama çekici olduğum için cehalet önemli değilmiş gibi gelirdi hep" diye özeleştiri yapabilen, romanın akıp gitmesine bu bilinçsiz şirinliğiyle katkıda bulunan biri.
Tesadüfe bakın ki Janet gibi güzelliğinden artı vasfı olmayan bir kadın da bana aynı soruyu sormuştu: "Küba Afrika'da değil mi?".
When I began this book I had to read and reread the first few pages a couple times to get into my head the cadence and tone of the woman speaking.
If you can't find the voice of Janet in your head you won't have nearly as much fun as the totally unexpected events unfold.
Burgess lulls you into a false sense of ease as Janet over-explains her mundane life.
But as events escalate into the unbelievable and ridiculous, Janet continues to explain as if nothing particularly strange were occuring.
Narrated by typical northern lass Janet Shirley, the novel uses the quiz show as a metaphor for the above commentary—how the Great Poets & Writers remain unread and unappreciated, relegated to trivia questions and fodder for fact-vacuums like hubby Howard.
As the novel progresses, a dark tension unravels as Howard experiences the hollowness of a consumerist universe and takes drastic steps to escape the futility of it all.
Despite its plainly improvised plot, and occasional slapdash phrasing here and there (tut tut, Anto), for a novel completed in a month for a cynical buck, it is a pleasingly fine product of Burgess the contrarian lunatic mastermind and one-man book-shitting machine.
Bu nasıl bir ifade yeteneğidir?
Bu nasıl bir “Aslında edebiyat yapmıyorum, bu alalade bir roman işte” cümleleri ile edebiyatın tavanına ulaşmaktır?
Semerkant’ı okurken, Livaneli için “bir erkek, bir kadının ağzından bu kadar mükemmel nasıl yazabilir?” diye düşünmüştüm; hayran kalmıştım.
Ama bu kitapta düşüncem bir tık daha üste çıktı.
Zira entellektüel bir kadını dile getirmekle cahil ama enteresan bir şekilde yüksek farkındalığı olan bir kadını dile getirmek aynı şeyler değil bana sorarsanız.
Ama bir de bakmışız ki Livaneli de bırakmış piyasaya oynamayı ve böyle bir kitap yazmış.
;)Kitabını okurken yazarın özgüvenini hissettiğimde o kitaptan aldığım zevk katlanıyor.
Bu kitapda Burges özgüvenini iliklerime kadar hissettim.
My first encounter with the works of Burgess came in the 1970s, starting with A Clockwork Orange, after which I read several of his novels in a frenzy.
It was the trick Burgess pulled of sharing information with his reader that provided a long view and a bigger picture, while the simple-minded Janet missed it altogether.
The narrative bears the distinct Burgess brand of originality, but in this case is also easily accessible and deceptively simple.In one scene in the story, the prize money has climbed to the grand sum.
If you're a Burgess fan and you've not read this one, you should treat yourself to this gem of a story.
Janet and Howard are lower-middle-class residents of Bradcaster who have fallen into a familial marital routine of working, eating, and watching television.
However, all is not well within Howard’s mind as he proves that money does not change the commonplace ignorance of everyday life.This book displays Burgess’ opposition against the emphasis placed on wealth instead of knowledge.
Howard often feels disappointed that his actions merely provide entertainment instead of enlightenment.
She even views her relationship with Howard as a superficial thing to be compared with couples on television.
Janet has experienced more through her television than through the sum of her life experience.
My first Burgess after reading "A Clockwork Orange" in high school. An easy read with an entertaining narrative and interesting story. I'll definitely have to read more of his stuff!
...
The main appeal for most of One Hand Clapping is the interesting narrative.
While "slow moving" for 3 quarters of the book, the main character Janet has an interesting voice and is written as though she's talking to you as a friend.
It's essentially a story of a man (Janet's husband Howard) who sets out on a mission to figure out whether or not life is worth living in a very Albert Camus sort of fashion.
If you have the hardcover 1970's version of this book (with the plain white cover and black lettering) DO NOT READ THE INSIDE FOLD SUMMARY!
At only 216 pages it still came in as a very long read. A story contrived in order to preach about the fallacies of modern life. As dull as dishwasher water,very boring and predictable. Extremely disappointed as I do love Burgess. Check out "a clockwork orange" or "the doctor is sick" as better examples of Burgess' undoubted talent.
'It takes two hands to clap' is one of my lil bro's catchphrases, always used in the wrong context but always amusingly funny.
ÖNCE ALINTILAR:*** "Kötü olan dünya degil" dedim. "Dünyadaki insanlar."*** "Para yaşamak için harcanacak, hiçbir şekilde biriktirilmeyecek, süs eşyasına, mobilyaya, o tür şeylere yatınlmayacak."*** "Sırf o ülkenin yurttaşı olmak, kendi ülkenizi bir yabancıdan daha iyi tanımanızı gerektirmez."*** "Çok cahildim, ama çekici oldugum için cehalet önemli degilmiş gibi gelirdi hep." Ayraçsız kitaplar grubumuzun bayram sebebiyle okuması zorunlu olmayan ayraçlı kitabıydı. Başlayınca bulduğum her fırsatta okuma isteği duydum. Burgess'in kendini okutmayı bilen keyifli ve düşündüren kurgusu... İngiltere'de geçen öyküde evli bir çiftin hikayesini kadının anlatısıyla okuma imkanınız olacak.
I found it very annoying.The two main characters are a ditz named Janet and her dull, somewhat inconsiderate, but very sweet and doting husband, Howard.
Life is going along blandly but steadily until Janet's sister tries to commit suicide in their house.Soon after, Howard gets on a game show and wins a £1,000 (in 1961).
The Poet puts up a fuss about how Howard is planning to kill Janet, but no one believes him.Finally, after plowing through 200 pages, we get to the dull, dreary point of the book: That life isn't worth living, so let's just kill ourselves.
New York was quite interesting, and we saw all the things we'd already seen on the films, like Broadway and Harlem and Madison Square, also Fifth Avenue.
The difference between the films and the real thing was, as I said, mainly that the real thing had its own smell and the real thing was more genuine, with people spitting and swearing and having pimples and boils, though not more than the people of England, ...
I suppose the only real reason for travelling is to learn that all people are the same.
I tell you that now, so you don't need to waste your money on travelling.
Very weird (Anthony Burgess of course) book that reminded me in some ways of Infinite Jest the way that most people interpreted real life events through the lens of television shows to make sense of them.
That they were so disassociated with reality that it needed an artificial television narrative to make sense of it.
In this world, there is a couple one of whom has the disassociated television series filter view of the world and the other who has a warped classical philosophical sort of nihilistic view of life.
The story plays out from there.
I found the ending a little disappointing.
This is a story written in 1960 by the writer of "The Clockwork Orange" and narrated by a 24 year old woman, a pretty working class young women who is married to a man with a photographic memory.
The idea appealed to me as my memory is quite photographic too.
Some of this was an interesting read but the style of the writing by the women was like a memoir and I found her voice a bit irritating.
Burgess was commenting on the world of consumerism, advertising and Americanisation of Britain and some of this did come across and after all this time, it was interesting to read about everyday life in the 60s but overall the storytelling didn't appeal.
“Otomatik Portakal”ın yazarı Anthony Burgess’ın biraz gözardı edilmiş romanı “Bir Elin Sesi Var” ilk defa 1961 yılında yayımlanmış. Burgess’ın “Otomatik Portakal” romanındaki gibi çok sade ve eğlenceli dili romanı bir çırpıda bitirmenize neden oluyor. TV’deki bir bilgi yarışmasında sadece fotoğrafik bir belleği olduğu için büyük para ödülünü kazanan işçi sınıfından bir genç ve onun güzel karısının değişen hayatını anlatan kitap yoğun bir pop kültür eleştirisi aynı zamanda. Çok büyük bir zenginlik elde eden çift, bu parayla nasıl yaşayacaklarını bulamadıkları gibi, dünyanın yoz yüzüyle de bir anda tanışıyorlar. Hiçbir şeyden zevk alamaz bir hale düşüyorlar...
The story is narrated by Janet, in a completely dispassionate, matter-of-fact manner. She seems somewhat older than her 23 years, but that may be a British thing to which I can't relate. The style of narration is in sharp contrast to the events that unfold, making the ending all the more horrifying. I was left feeling unsettled, like after I watched Hitchcock's Psycho.Overall, I'd recommend it, but don't expect to experience any warm fuzzies!
8.7Vivid, striking, and consistently engaging, One Hand Clapping fits well within Burgess' impressive bibliography. It's an easy book to describe, and though quite dark in terms of theme, is kept extremely lightweight. Death is treated like a casual inconvenience, and 55000 post-war GBP treated like a worthless sum to be used and abused. Really fun read.
I read this at some point after finishing school, feeling a continuing admiration for the author of A Clockwork Orange and wondering if his other titles were as good. The basic story of this one has stuck with me over the years, as have a few specific scenes. It deserves more attention than I think it got.
If you like Clockwork Orange, you should read this one too. It's not quite the same, but still a good read. It's too bad Burgess is mostly just known for Clockwork Orange when he has many other enjoyable books, too.
Clever little book by a very clever chap that loves his cleverness. I was mostly engaged & entertained but I have quite a few buts & would rather discuss these 'buts' with you over a cup of tea.I give this novella a 7 out of 10.
Взех тази книга, защото много харесвам "Портокал с часовников механизъм" и бях любопитен да прочета още нещо от Бърджес. Книгата е написана добре, но за съжаление не ми допаднаха нито историята, нито героите.
This is probably the quickest reads of all of Burgess' books that I have read thus far. Great plot, interesting characters, and as always subtle social commentary.
An excellent thriller in the vein of Patricia Highsmith...not quite what I expected, but definitely a good read!
I read this book in high school and I was completely blown away by the humor and voice. One of my all time favorites.
All time favorite book of all time
