https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/407432.The_Quiet_Man_and_Other_Stories
'The Quiet Man' is a short story by Irish novelist Maurice Walsh (1879–1964).
It was adapted and made in an Oscar-winning movie directed by John Ford and starring John Wayne and Maureen O'Hara in 1952.The original story itself is brisk and snappy entertainment providing a wonderful pericope for the well known film adaptation.
Walsh sure creates some peculiar lines such as, “She, foolishly enough, took to husband her own cattleman, a gay night rambler, who gave her the devil's own time and a share of happiness in the bygoing.”Whatever that means!?!
This was better than I thought it could be. For the most part very different from the John Ford movie, it has such a feel for Ireland in the 1920's you can place yourself in the scenes, be they fishing in the rual areas or traveling the streets of Dublin. The characters were drawn with great regard to their inner lives as well as those they gave to the outside world. A very good read and an amazing look into Irish life at the time.
A nice enough little story. Also rather pat and predictable — ultimately, there's not a whole lot to it. But it is well told; for that I'm willing to give it a recommendation.Note: this is a review only of the story 'The Quiet Man,' which is available as separate ebook, not the collection.
Amazing, fun, sad, touching and makes me want to go to Ireland. I not only love this story, but had so much fun reading this story.
Although I picked up originally because of the John Wayne--Maureen O'Hara movie, I enjoyed it for itself, since the once story on which the film is based is significantly different.
The Wayne character has a different name and played a major role in the fight for Irish freedom, whereas in the film he seems pretty apolitical, just wanting to forget about the man he killed in the ring.
In the book, moving past fighting usually involves the men marrying and setting up a family, including a Scots-British soldier who is kidnapped in the first story, but remains friends with the IRA men because of their shared loved of fishing.
A memorable book by a little known Irish writer.
I found and read this book because it included a short story I wanted to read, The Quiet Man. That remains my favorite story from this collection of Irish short stories, but the others were quite enjoyable also.
Ireland comes alive as a charming and beautiful culture in these stories.
The characters are simple, yet somehow profoundly alive and memorable.
The seem to be people that one would enjoy knowing and with whom one could be lifelong friends.
They are infused with dignity, honor, and love, and become poignantly full with meaning as we come to know their hearts.
Wonderful reading!
A series of related short stories set in Ireland during the Black and Tan War (1919-1921). Most famous is the short story of The Quiet Man which was the background for the famous John Wayne/Maureen O'Hara film of the same name. But this book is more than that one story. A series of friends, their adventures and mishaps and their discovery of their true loves. Somewhat difficult to follow for someone knowing next to nothing of the period but still a fun read.
The title story is different enough from the movie that you shouldn't go into this story with any solid expectations based on having seen the film. It's been a while since I've read this collection, but I would absolutely recommend it to anyone interested in early 20th century Irish history. Walsh does a phenomenal job at writing his characters true-to-life and placing them realistically in a time of great unrest for Ireland and her people. Fantastic read.
Written as a set of multi-chapter short stories, each of which could stand alone (and were first published separately), but it's really one novel. Excellent.If we had half-stars, I'd give it 4.5 because there were a couple of spots I couldn't quite follow (there's a lot of unspoken gentleman's behavior going on that I can't always click to).
I read the Quiet Man in 10th grade. We then watched the movie with John Wayne.
Having seen the movie almost on a yearly basis, it was a treat to finally read the story. It was very good.
once again the book is better than the movie.... this started slowly and took effort to get into, but the payoff is worth it.
Classic storyteller. So vivid, his stories never leave me.
A real treat to read the surrounding stories as well as the original of my parents' favorite movie.
Most of the books you are forced to read in high school are a struggle to get through. This was an exception to the rule. Excellent story. Very recommended
Wonderful evocative stories set in 1920s Ireland with fabulous characters and poignant storylines.
