https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/555184.Midnight_at_the_Well_of_Souls
Once upon a time, this was an incredible story for an awkward, introverted kid who didn't fit into any society that he knew.
The vision of flying off to another world in which you could start again as any of a thousand possible different races was incredibly compelling.
I expected it to have aged poorly, like so many fond childhood stories.
I was glad that it hadn't lost all luster over the years.That said, it's still basically an adventure romp, with a neat world building and some pathos.
I would still recommend it, but don't expect to be picking up a monument like Tolkien.
It has some rather interesting ideas that keep the first half fairly intriguing and entertaining, but the writing and ham-fistedness of the morality play ruins it pretty thoroughly come the second half.The whole Well World concept is pretty unique for a plot device, and I would have been pretty satisfied if the book had stayed focused on the interplay between the people of the world and their surrounding environs.
That's when the heavy-handed morality story comes in, delivered in over-the-top sermon form by the central character (also involved in a deus ex machina plot twist that is god-awful).
Midnight at the Well of Souls is an old-school piece of sci-fi, with a brilliant setting and a story that doesn't just examine the concept of what it means to be human, it kicks it over and scatters the pieces everywhere.Just so you know what kind of ride you're in for, the book opens with characters learning the true nature of the universe.
From there, the protagonists are transported to an artificial planet divided into thousands of "hexes," each with its own unique form of life.
Moreover, the protagonists themselves are transformed into different forms of life, not just once, but multiple times throughout the story.
I haven't read this, and the following books in the series for years - I came across it in a 2nd hand bookshop for $1 and when I got home, I found that it had been autographed by the author himself! I really enjoyed reading it. The thought that the whole universe is just a mathematical equation is quite alluring. I also enjoyed the various lifeforms encountered on the Wellworld and Chalker is very good at describing what it would be like to wake up in not just a different body, but an entirely different form of life.
This was probably the most unique novel I'd ever read, and that's saying something, because I've also read John Varley's Gaea trilogy.
The concept is just so original and alien, the latter of which is fitting, as it straddles the line between science-fiction and science-fantasy.
Protagonist Nathan Brazil is a conundrum from the beginning, and Chalker weaves him and the other characters into the plot beautifully.
However, sometimes Chalker's writing style leaves something to be desired (bulky sentences, head-jumping), but overall, Midnight at the Well of Souls is an excellent book that leaves the reader wanting more of the peculiar Well World.
‘Midnight at the Well of Souls’ is the first book of the series, and follows a familiar pattern: a group of characters – some likable, some not – are taken to a strange place, have some amazing experiences and finally arrive at a somewhat happy ending.
My personal favorite (in this book) is a symbiotic creature composed of flashing lights and floating crystals which eats silicon (what else?).The story is easily read, and the characters are enjoyable, if very shallow.
It will leave you wondering what creature you would become if you were taken to the Well-World.
Book Ws1.2018 Grade B+Chalker has one of the most incredible imaginations of any author I have ever read, and this blend of SciFi and Fantasy is rather amazing.
There were six points of view, one for each of the six people who end up on the world - transmogrified into different beings in different hexes.
There are two reasons the story did not get an A grade this time.
I still did not speed read very much but I skipped a few paragraphs in chapters where material was being repeated and skimmed the lecturing in the conclusion.
Is the book worth reading, absolutely.
Is it worth reading a third time, I think so!(Technical note.
Four space travelers enter a mysterious portal and are delivered to the Well World--an artificial planet, the surface of which is honeycombed with over 15000 controlled environments, each with its own native population.
The problem is that everyone who arrives on the Well World is given a new form and identity, and integrated into one of the native cultures.
If you remove all the massive expository passages (often disguised as dialogue) there isn't much of a story left.
It isn't a bad book, but it could have done with more refining.
Read this in the Navy on Diego Garcia. What did it lead to. I own every Chalker book...around 40 and I've read all but about two of them. I even have a few letters he sent me when I mailed him some questions and the letters are on his MIRAGE Press letterhead. Chalker is not Shakespeare, but he takes you on a rollercoaster ride every time.
tyrinėdamas galaktikos gelmes žmogus tikriausiai susitiks daugybę nežemiškų civilizacijų. O galbūt didesnė tikimybė surasti prieš daugelį milijonų metų išnykusių protinių būtybių paliktas "laikrodines minas", kurias palietus nutiks žmogaus protui neįsivaizduojami dalykai... Dalgonijos planetoje pilna keistų šulinių, kurie, atrodo, sminga į pačią šio pasaulio širdį...visai geras skaitalas
Mini-Review:4 Stars for Narration, 3 Stars for StoryI found the idea of the Well of Souls to be really interesting and I enjoyed the different kinds of intelligent species that made up the various Hexes. I thought the author did a great job in hinting at who Nathan Brazil really was without saying it outright. However, when it all came out, I was underwhelmed by the delivery. I look forward to seeing what else happens in the series but I'm not in a rush to jump into it right away.
Extremely unique premise, some dull stretches and the ending goes off the rails weird but very entertaining overall
I picked up this book because the cover had a dinosaur riding an ichthyosaur across a desert and who wouldn't want to get in on that action? however, the scene depicted in the art occurs near the end and is not even described. it's just something that happens between chapters. disappointing. There's also the propensity of the author to always describe animals as having cavernous vaginas, like dude we don't need to know that. a stag does have sex with a centaur at one point though, so two stars.
I made the decision this year not to read novels over 250 pages, because I read so slowly, and I tend to lose interest.
Plus, a lot of longer novels just really could be cut down a lot.
But I started this one, and it actually kept me engaged.
Big ideas.
The plot certainly has a bit of "Forbidden Planet" element to - not copied at all, just in the same tradition.
No wonder this series was on every bookstore SF shelf I ever saw back in the 1980s.
I'll probably read more from this series.
Nathan and his passengers are pulled after the murderer to a place called Well World, a single planet with over fifteen hundred sentient races---and many of the inhabitants used to be as human as they.
And there's more to a happy ending than just getting to sleep together, or more to love in general than sleeping together.Another thing I didn't like was the tendency to sit the reader down for very long explanations.
Every time a new race shows up, the book stops to explain numerous details that in the end weren't very relevant and at least could have been more interesting if presented in a different fashion.
And like most of the SF of that era, it wraps itself up in one book.The story itself is a sci-fantasy.
That's all due to the concept of the Well World, where many different races live in hexagons on the planet's surface.
That's just the concept.In the story itself, the passengers on a freighter, responding to a distress call, find themselves dragged into the Well World, given new bodies, and begin a race to reach the control center of the planet.
If you're easily offended by inter-species sex, and all the possible variations of offended implied by changing bodies, which also means changing genders, then this might not be a good book for you.
I accidentally read the second book first, so I wanted to go back and catch up before moving on in the series.
That said, I already read the second book (which doesn't include Nathan Brazil except as a side note) and I'm interested in finding out what happens to those characters, so onward I go.(As a side note, Chalker seems to have caught a case of Niven Syndrome, as evidenced in Niven's later Ringworld books, in which the writer sets up major plot points just so he can make different species of aliens have sex with each other.
Three and a half stars to be more precise.I have been wanting to read this series for decades, but had never come across the first book.
I'm afraid I found it a bit confusing with so many characters in so many different alien guises constantly changing their species and genders as the story progresses, I often had to shift gears, rewind and re-listen to figure out which character's point of view we are experiencing at any moment.
I look forward to the rest of the series, but after a short break.
An amazing feat of world building, and Chalker made the best of his love of body-changing.
People who come to the Well World are transformed into one of the 1,560 sentient species living there.
The personality conflicts already existing among before them before they arrive, play out in a race to control the Well of Souls.
I have the audio versions of the next two in the series, so those are on the schedule.
Alas, the books after #3 aren't available in audio.
Well of Souls stuff isn't my favorite by Chalker, though it's what he's most well-known for, I think.I'll label it as Sci-Fi, but has many fantasy aspects, and some outright magic.The concept of Well World (and the universe history) is very neat, and a lot of fun. I guess I'll give the series as a whole a 4, might deserve a 3. I don't remember individual books, just the series as one large story.I have reread this, and a lot of Chalker series many times, but I don't think it's rereadable for most people.
[2018 reread] some people have comfort food, some a favorite movie, blanket...I have comfort books. They stand the tests of time, are always enjoyable regardless of my age or changed perspectives. When I have a lot on my plate, and this time around also a couple of heavier reads in parallel, I will sometimes divert with one (or more) of those comfort books. Might need more diversion...![2012] An all time favorite. Imaginative. Intelligent. And so open to follow ons(obviously, given the four plus three plus two that did follow...).
Just read this book again... its been at least a dozen years since i last read it. Its a great premise, and the enigmatic character of Nathan draws the reader in. The rich cultures and and societies of the Well World are also very well presented... its not immersive but it gives the reader a strong sense of difference. Its also fun... and the tension and mystery are kept at a good pace and revealing enough to string the reader along without becoming bored.
This was a fun ride, though as a book, it stands more on its ideas than its plot. Everything that outsiders think science fiction is is in here. Weird aliens, weirder sex, complicated plots that don't explain everything, it's all here. However, the plot device of the well world works well enough to keep you reading in search of what weird thing will happen next, right up to the british dinosaurs at the end. Overall fun, and worth reading.
If you haven't read the Saga of the Well World Series, you haven't read proper Science Fiction. Combining quantum physics creation, fantasy creatures, secret alien manipulators, capitalism, drug addiction, and feminism all connected by a foil named Nathan Brazil, the Wandering Jew, this is the penultimate science fiction series. Chalker masters character and plot development, along with the magical allure of scientific wonder in a perfect recipe of SciFi goodness. enjoy
I enjoyed this book and will probably read more titles from this series.I only gave it three stars because, even though I liked it, there really wasn't anything about the story that made me excited enough to say I "really" liked it.If you enjoy a good old fashioned Fantasy/Science Fiction quest then I think you'll enjoy this book.
Interesting concept, but not unique - think of Philip Jose Farmer's Riverworld series - and not entirely satisfactory in its execution, either. I doubt I'll be actively searching out the rest of the series.Chalker's writing is pedestrian at best, awkward at worst.
There was a stargate in this? Man, I really need to reread some of these adult books I read as a little kid.
I read this series many years ago, during college. I obviously didn't remember much of it at all. I really enjoyed the Well World universe and the odd creatures therein.
This is an awesome space-fantasy book, a medley of Star Trek and LOTR. Enjoyed reading it.
This book has been putting me in the position to reconsider that, all the characters wind up getting Ovid-transformed into new creatures, some of which are pleasant (like the tree-people or big tiddy mermaids), some of which are not (like the cannibal wasp-fascists).
This bad boy could not have gotten published in Current Year, believe you me.I was further impressed by the fact that no matter how cartoonish the characters were, it still manifested as gritty realism in my head.
