https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40605285-the-sweetness-at-the-bottom-of-the-pie
This book probably deserves 4 stars, but to me, as far as how much I enjoyed it, 5 stars baby!Having just read Steig Larssen's "Girl with the Dragon Tattoo" I hadn't expected to stumble on a heroine as quickly that I'd love as much.
She is drawn into a wonderful mystery that I don't want to spoil, but her tenacity and drive and clever deductions make for a wonderful read.
She reminds me of what I would have loved to be at 11, independent and forward and free.
The story started off slowly, then picked up steam with a murder to solve and some interesting backstory on stamps.
What hindered my enjoyment of the book, the story and the murder mystery was, unfortunately, the main character and detective: Flavia duLuce.To say that young Flavia is precocious is an understatement.
Problem is, she's only 11 years old, and she's totally unbelievable to me.
Hey, I respect intelligent fictional kids as crime solvers - I grew up reading Trixie Belden for pete's sake.
But Flavia's brand of intelligence is far beyond what I can believe or accept in a pint-size crime solver.
For months I hid my outlier status by changing the applicable shelf from "currently reading" to "to read", but have decided that today I shall end the deception and own my outlier status.
I can handle the blow back from admitting that being forced to read one more page relating to Flavia de Luce would be an effective means of torture for anyone seeking a method to use on me, for future reference.
I shall not read Bradley's novels in a box, or with a fox.
A historical mystery, set in England, narrated by a precocious 11-year-old girl. I feel like I should have loved this, but mostly it just bored me. Flavia’s narration, designed to show off how brilliant she is, lacked the necessary wit and charm, and her investigation into a couple of murders and some missing stamps was full of weird leaps of logic and sideways-step conclusions. I never felt involved or like any part of the story was real or mattered.
Flavia de Luce is an 11-year old amateur sleuth, a future chemist and poison enthusiast.
Flavia's days are occupied with chemical experiments and schemes of spiking her evil older sister Ophelia's lipstick with poison ivy.
But the strength of "The Sweetness at the Bottom of the Pie" is not in the mystery.
Flavia is a charming heroine with a very distinct "voice" that is a perfectly blended combination of childish innocence and book smarts.
I absolutely loved Sweetness.
The narrator-protagonist is one of the cleverest, liveliest, most entertaining characters I have had the pleasure to meet in many a year.
Flavia is the 11-year-old daughter of a widower in England in the 50s.
She loves science and mystery, despises her haughty clueless sisters, and is plotting to poison them and get away with it.
Add to the mix a good mystery and the prospect of many more stories to come featuring this spunky scientist pre-teen and I am really excited!
When young Flavia de Luce, aspiring chemist, finds a body in the cucumber patch outside her father's house, she finds herself caught up in a web of deceit and murder...I'm not really sure how my love of detective fiction led me to this tale of an eleven year old girl in 1950s England solving a mystery involving stamps but I'm glad it did.Flavia de Luce is a precocious English girl with a passion for chemistry in general and poisons in particular.
She's funny as hell and wise beyond her years.Bradley's writing takes what probably would have been a two star mystery and kicks things up several notches.
Quite impressive, since in 1950 she wasn't attending school; good thing she was self motivated.Maybe the author was trying to anchor the book into the time and place, but the references had the opposite effect of reassuring me, drawing my attention and distracting me from the story itself (as should be obvious by the fact I looked up some of the info stated above).Since this is the author's first book, I might be inclined to borrow the second book and see if there are any stylistic improvements, but suspect that, with all the accolades for book one, there would be little incentive to do so.
Ignore the title, please, and go for the essence. Flavia de Luce is an eleven year-old Sherlock Holmes with a predilection for the dark side of rural crime and a hobby of poisons. This will be the first in what promises to be an utterly original and delicious series. Adult preoccupations and values may confront Flavia, but they do not greatly impress her; by the story's end, the reader can only agree.
And there are other times when you deserve to be sent to your room with bread and water." -- Inspector Hewitt to Flavia de Luce: budding sleuth, brilliant chemist, and diabolical eleven-year-old.After very high hopes, I almost gave up on "The Sweetness at the Bottom of the Pie" after about seven chapters, finding little literary sweetness to induce in me a hunger to devour the remaining pages.
Aside from Dogger, I really didn't feel much empathy for any of the characters but they managed to make an amusing enough group, Mr. de Luce and his lack of emotion for anything but stamp collecting, Flavia's older sisters Daphne and Ophilia, one with a love of make-up and the other with a love of reading...
Prva knjiga iz serijala od šest romana o devojčici Flaviji i njenim čudnim interesovanjima i dogodovštinama... Nažalost, publika je kod nas nije prihvatila, a ni izdavač se nije adekvatno potrudio da je predstavi čitaocima... Knjiga u kojoj uživaju i tinejdžeri i odrasli širom sveta... Autor je rado viđen gost po sajmovima knjiga u svetu... Ne skida se s bestseler lista... Must read za mlade i one koji vole dobru knjigu... Veoma je zabavna! :)
It is the summer of 1950 - and at the once-grand mansion of Buckshaw, young Flavia de Luce, an aspiring chemist with a passion for poison, is intrigued by a series of inexplicable events: A dead bird is found on the doorstep, a postage stamp bizarrely pinned to its beak.
Perhaps if I was a kid reading about Flavia, I would have enjoyed the book more.
The sneaking out of the house, magic tricks, and intriguing mystery behind the stamp pinned to the bird's beak - all of these things would have caught my attention once upon a time.
A different kind of mystery book that I found fascinating.
First star is for the heroine.
Two stars are for the setting.
The girl and her family live in an old mansion at the outskirts of a small village.
I really enjoyed the small village atmosphere where everybody knew each other.
Finally, one star for the plot and the writing.
i loved how the action was "enhanced" by historic and literature references.I read an interesting thing about the author.
He started writing book at 70.
And now there are 7 books in the series.
A very enjoyable read, a bit of fresh air.
Sometimes reviewing a book is a bit of a chore, especially if I really liked the novel and I want to do it justice.
An eleven year old child prodigy with her own chemical laboratory, where she concocts various poisons and plans of revenge against her two older siblings, Flavia is an unusual first person narrator an English Manor whodunit set in the 1950's, but her immense curiosity, her passion for books, her singing 'Oomba-Chukka' as she flies atop Gladys (her bicycle), her reckless courage and her sardonic wit look very promising to me for the continuation of the series.
Also, since writing them, I’ve realized that my reactions aren’t spoilers, but they’re probably going to ruin this book for you if you haven’t read it, so you should stop reading now and leave it at the CSI thing.
bwuhahaha.*" I kind of like it when stories are extremely unlikely, but it makes me uncomfortable when I feel like the author is trying to distract me from it or justify it.
It’s better than Water for Elephants because I mostly like our girl Flavia, but I still don’t understand, and that’s really distracting.More specifically, my problem is that for the bulk of the story Flavia’s more adult than I am, and then she would suddenly transition to kid jokes.
Several years back, I received a copy of the fifth book in this series for review purposes.
I was so impressed by the book, I vowed to look up the first four installments and catch up with the series.
So, finally, I have read this book that propelled the series into the public’s consciousness.
The mystery is very well done, with several twists and surprises that place Flavia in direct danger, which adds a pretty intense level of suspense to the story.
However, this series gets my stamp of approval, so far, and I am really looking forward to Flavia’s next adventure.
Delightful!I loved this quirky book.
She’s completely over the top, yet somehow believable, at least within the narrative.
She’s a fabulous character and a brilliant creation.I smiled several times on almost every page, especially in the first part of the book.
As with many mysteries, there was some quite scary (for me) suspense toward the end, which surprised me a bit, given the general humorous telling of the story, dark though it was.
The story dragged a bit a few times in the last parts, but overall this was a completely engrossing book.
I will definitely be continuing with this mystery series.
I am a sucker for girl power. I say that right off the bat, so I loved the malevolent girl detective Flavia who although she has some serious issues with her sisters is so darn plucky and strong that I couldn't help but be in her corner. Her beloved father is accused of murder and it's up to her to prove his innocence as the police seem to be going by the old adage, if you're in the vicinity you're the guy.
A surprisingly, delightfull who dunnit, introducing Flavia De Luce, who is one of the most captivating, young characters I have met since young Harry came out from his cupboard under the stairs. I'll definitely be reading the next chemical caper.
Instead, Flavia senses something delicious may come of it: adventure.Thus Flavia sets out to find out just who the man is, and how he came to be dying in her cucumber patch.
Flavia isn't a loon, but her obsession with poisons does make her narration slightly suspect on occasion, which adds an interesting element.The tone throughout the book is fun and intriguing.
The characters are fun and quirky, and this extends beyond Flavia, though she certainly takes the cake in this regard.And even for me, who always figures things out and then gets disgusted -- even for me the mystery was fun.
Things I Find While ShelvingWell, that was disappointing.
I have been looking forward to reading this for awhile and I was finally in the mood and it was in at the library (I've tried the audio but find it far too annoying), so I was super psyched!And then it was...super meh.Flavia is beyond annoying.
As are most of the characters, but especially Flavia.
It annoys me greatly that she thinks she needs to compete with the police to solve a murder because a) she's eleven and b) it's a murder leave that shit to the police what the everloving fuck?!It had a strong ending, which was good, and means I may keep reading in the series, see if it gets better, but overall it was just...eh.
This is a new favorite! I read it in two sittings and am ready to start agiain. Flavia de Luce is one of my top new detectives. I only wish I could have her over for tea to discuss the difficulty of living with older sisters and perhaps, poisons. I'm sure it has been said by many and I agree, that this book is an absolute delight.
I'm not usually one for mysteries because they're so much about the plot and not so much about the character, so it takes a good one to keep me interested.
Unfortunatley, this one did not.
I found it terribly dry and borderline nodded off at several points.
I guess I was hoping for more of a 'Mysterious case of the dog in the nighttime'.
Instead it just seemed to almost trudge along at an alarmingly tottering pace.I did find the main character, Flavia, fairly charming and I think if she were written into a more fast paced novel she would really truly shine.
This was a delightful little read! Thoroughly enjoyed looking at life in 1950 through the eyes of the incorrigible Flavia de Luce!
Precocious, ubiquitous, and intelligent, she’s filled with energy and life, refers to her sisters as Feely and Daffy, and has an unbounding curiosity about the world around her, even though there’s always the chance she could blow up Bishop’s Lacey with her latest science experiment.
The story would have been better served with hints or groundwork rather than fanfare eureka moments that provided narrow escapes.While I realize a plethora exclamation points are a stylistic choice, and I’ll even grant that said exclamation points added to Flavia’s voice and helped enhance her childlike wonder, I couldn’t help my burning desire to pound a few out of the page and cry “Curses!” all the way to Mother England.THE SWEETNESS AT THE BOTTOM OF THE PIE proved rather sweet indeed, but it did have the hint of a bitter aftertaste, which prevented me from rating this book higher.Cross-posted at Robert's Reads
A clever, sassy, Nancy Drew like book with a young girl who loves chemistry and mystery. A fun, fast paced ride with our heroine Flavia, the youngest of three girls being raised by their father. Flavia's angst and curiosity is entertaining and hits on all cylinders in this cozy murder mystery that can be enjoyed by young and old alike. A good story mixed with good narration makes for a win, win adventure.
(hide spoiler)] Someone's been unfairly jailed on suspicion of murder, (view spoiler)[(Flavia's distant and troubled father, Colonel de Luce) (hide spoiler)] and although at first Flavia wonders if the police have the murderer, after a while, Flavia becomes more and more certain it's someone else.The cast of characters is large and colorful and includes the following people.
It is in character for him to do something like this, but....More illogical is that Flavia finally solves the crime while she is in dire circumstances and her life is in danger (view spoiler)[She is blind folded and tied up in a pit under the library.
The mystery wasn't the hardest thing to solve, I mean it wasn't as complex as an Agatha Christie one but still a fun to read, and Flavia's brave escapades were a joy to read.
At one point in the story the author lets us know that Flavia started her love for chemistry with one book that fell on her head, well I had one of those books too as a kid, I was obsessed with it, I was never as good as her at it but I know what it feels like to be spellbound by a whole new philosophy and world of unknown wonders.
This is my second time reading this, though this time I chose to listen to it.
And that made a difference.
Where before I didn't really think much of the book, this time, having a voice actor bring Flavia de Luce to life was critical to me enjoying this story.
Flavia's intelligence, humour and cheek really come through in the audio, and that makes the book, and this time I could appreciate Alan Bradley's writing and historical details.
I am going to check out the other books now in audio, as Flavia became someone I want to spend more time with.
Clever plot, unusual subject (stamp collecting), interesting setting and time, and amusing characters flesh out this funny little mystery. Flavia is a smart and snarky little detective whose passion is poison. I look forward to more Flavia.
