https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2939299-the-gentle-art-of-tramping
Written in 1927 but still very much relevant today. Stephen Graham was an extraordinary tramp and remains a patron saint of all wild campers. If you love being outside and sleeping under the stars in a wood, by a river, on the beach, at the top of a mountain, then hunt down a copy of this gem and treasure it.
Delightful. Written in 1926 by someone who walks (tramps). I love the dramatic differences between 'tramping' in 1926 and 'backpacking' in 2017 but also the similarities: The love of being outdoors and self-sufficient for the time being.This is admittedly an odd and obscure book, but a very enjoyable read. I never would have known about it but Annie Dillard recommended it somewhere in the midst of Pilgrim at Tinker Creek.
The title is a little misleading in that what he calls "tramping" I would simply call "backpacking." As such, it provides some good ideas for how to backpack in comfort.
I love this book.
Wonderful, fun and inspiring read. The writing is so energetic and creative. The style and class that Stephen Graham expresses through his on-the-road tramp's musings is new to me, not ever quite encountered in anything else I've read. This one is staying in plain sight, to be dipped into again and again, even if just for a few moments' pleasure. Highly recommended.
Written in 1927 it is a view of pre-ww2 Britain, and the world. The author creates some beautiful images, but for a really good read about walking, I would choose Colin Fletcher.A good book to be reading on Earth day, it was, for me a look at a wild long gone.
An absolutely beautiful book, courtesy of one of the old school of brilliantly mad old English gentlemen, which I did a disservice by nicking a vaguely rude chapter opening for a Facebook status. Apologies, Mr Graham.
This is just an awesome book for walking or hiking enthusiasts!
An absolutely magical book, anyone who has ever walked anywhere just for the joy of walking should read this book!
A great little book that no one has ever heard of (and you will never read).
