https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238127.Seduction_in_Death
Peabody and McNab are on and off all through the book but again there is a lot of humour in the situations that occur between them.
And of course Eve's opinions on the matter are hilarious.We see a gentle side of Summerset, quite a lot of the apparently over weight Galahad and there is even a mention of the Candy Thief.
The murderers are known to the reader from the start and it is fascinating to watch Eve and her team work their way towards their own discovery of their identities.
Altogether this was a very satisfying book, full of some of Robb's best quotes and such an entertaining read.
But she came through in the end, as always.All the side characters were present and the "mag" Trina, who I like very much because, she is the only person who really scares Eve. I had the strangest thought cross my mind as I was reading this story so I'm going to share it with you - my friends who love this series - and for that...
and of course that made me think of Eve as...because, lets face it, she always is the brain who solves the mysteries.
But I would prefer if such big parts of the book weren't dedicated to Eve being hurt and having nightmares and needing Roarke to fight them back and making comparisons between the victim's and her situation, etc.
Not because I can't take the drama but because it is the same thing in every book over and over again.
13 books in and nothing has changed in that respect so I would prefer it if the nightmare became something that is just there and doesn't need a 10 page space to be developed only to essentially prove to be just another nightmare like all the other ones before it.Is this a deal breaker?
This one was very disturbing for so many reasons but like all of them, so very good too. Full review to come later.
Book 13 and J.D.Robb still continues to amaze me. I'm absolutely addicted this series! :)Ps. I listened the Audiobook version and it was so damn good. ;)Eve & Roarke <3 Her fingers stroked through his hair.Her lips found the curve of his throat, nuzzling against the pulse that beat for her. When he slipped inside her,she opened her eyes to find him watching her.No one, she thought as the breath trembled through her lips, no one had ever looked at her as he did.In a way that told her she w
Book 13 and J.D.Robb still continues to amaze me. I'm absolutely addicted this series! :)Ps. I listened the Audiobook version and it was so damn good. ;)Eve & Roarke <3
  Her fingers stroked through his hair.Her lips found the curve of his throat, nuzzling against the pulse that beat for her. When he slipped inside her,she opened her eyes to find him watching her.No one, she thought as the breath trembled through her lips, no one had ever looked at her as he did.In a way that told her she was the center.
Eve is trying to catch two guys who are using a date rape drug to rape and kill their victim.
There is something to be said for long series because you really get involved in their world and feel like the characters are old friends after a while.
"How'd you know it was me?" Feeney demanded as he came inside."You shuffle.""Hell I do.""Hell you don't.
You shuffle, Peabody clomps, McNab prances."
Also, Eve strides and Roarke prowls.Each of their walking styles is indicative of their personalities.
Which is why I love McNab. Plus he says stuff like this:He's a magnificent prancing man!
3.5 stars“Predators did not need mercy.”― Conn IgguldenThroughout the story we as a reader know how difficult it is for Eve to deal with this case (view spoiler)[as it involves rape (hide spoiler)].There are innocent women who go out on a date but do not survive the night. We as readers know the identity of the killers from the very start and it's all about Eve Dallas finding them and stopping them in their sick game!The chapters that were from the killer's perspective were  SICK!! Eve Dallas is
3.5 stars“Predators did not need mercy.”― Conn IgguldenThroughout the story we as a reader know how difficult it is for Eve to deal with this case (view spoiler)[as it involves rape (hide spoiler)].There are innocent women who go out on a date but do not survive the night.
We as readers know the identity of the killers from the very start and it's all about Eve Dallas finding them and stopping them in their sick game!The chapters that were from the killer's perspective were 
SICK!!
3.65⭐this was going really well and would have been a solid 4 starred read, except for the the last 15-20%. That was a bit of an overkill...
I simply LOVE these books. ❤ the suspense.❤ the humor.❤ all the side characters.❤ Roarke and Eve
Two young men with everything going for them look like good ideas for dates.
But what if they are psychopathic serial killers?
Hope EHarmony screens for these things.
They might want to include on their questionnaires, "do you like long walks and drugging your date before you rape her and throw her off a balcony?" Great book by one of the best writers in the world!Reread July 2018 — I’ll never know how J.
D. Robb aka Nora Roberts finds so many different murders.
Does she have a master check list in her office where she can mark them off?
Internet dating serial killers ✔️
Book 13 and it is still fresh. I still crave more of Roarke and Eve. I love them. I think I love her more than I love him. She is so strong, independent, honest. "Dachas," she said, "is, I'm told, Gaelic for hope." Lets get the negatives out of the way. Nope, it is not! It has been more than 30 years since I studied Irish in the classroom but some words stay with you. Didn't even have to google this one. The Irish/Gaelic word for "hope" is "Dóchas"! Nora, if you want to hire me as your Irish exp
I still crave more of Roarke and Eve. I love them.
"Dachas," she said, "is, I'm told, Gaelic for hope."
It has been more than 30 years since I studied Irish in the classroom but some words stay with you.
The Irish/Gaelic word for "hope" is "Dóchas"!
Nora, if you want to hire me as your Irish expert and give me a share of the book profits, I don't mind!
Roarke seems to be more involved in Eve's investigations now, with the blessing of Whitney and Feeney.
I love Eve. Have I said that already?
"I love you.Darling Eve."
I'm amazed how Ms. Roberts manages to write such a different, but Always interesting, crimes! WOW!!!And I'm amazed that these crimes are always a possible ones! Human idiocy and bloodthirst will never cease to astonish me!!!Here we have two killers. Young, rich, pampered. And totally out of their minds crazy!!!Here the concept of romance is used as a deadly game! How crazy is that???!!!I'm also amazed by the author's ability to insert witticisms, smart remarks in a very serious moments thus defusing its seriousness! I rarely incountered this in crime/mystery books and it is so very appreciated here!!!
4.5 stars - Romantic Suspense/Futuristic/Romantic ThrillerWow!
Thirteen books in and I don't see myself tiring of this series.
With a smart, gruff, edgy, tough, and not always easy to like heroine, Eve Dallas, fabulous secondary characters, my all-time favorite swoonalicious hero, Roarke, interesting and unique futuristic New York setting, and dark, well-written police procedural suspense, In Death continues to deliver.
I'm still overwhelmed by how many books there are in this series, but I've got a reliable go-to when I need a good romantic suspense (and Roarke) fix!
Here are my favorite casting possibilities.Eve Dallas:Stana Katic
Jennifer Garner
Roarke:David Gandy
Another wonderful re-read...Loved Roarke's reaction to Eve being sick and her learning to deal with it. (Thanks to Summerset!) Lots of character growth...Roarke is getting more involved in the case. Eve is still extremely annoyed, but letting him. Progress on the Peabody/McNab front, as well. "We're a couple." "A couple of what?" Vintage Eve. Loved Eve's rant in Whitney's office...and his reaction. On to the next!
Loved this 13th book in J D Robb's "In Death" series!!!!
1st read: 30th March-15th AprilBest one-liners:Eve: "Okay, now that I've let you fuck me and feed me, thereby satisfying all immediate appetites, I've got work."...Roarke: "Aren't you lucky to have me? A rhetorical question, darling," he said and stuffed caviar into her mouth. I still can't get over how amazing this narrator is!2nd read: 15th May-23rd May
Here we have two friends playing a game by raping women and killing them and Eve tries to find them before they kill more women. At this point of the series I don't know what else to say, the entire series is an experience you don't want to miss. I love it.
Except this guy is nothing but a well planned illusion to make a woman do anything he desires.
As always, this installment of the "In Death" series delivers a great plot and Eve and Roarke.
Dante finds his targets in cyberspace and carefully plans his "date" with her weeks in advance.
Wine that is laced with a date-rape drug designed to make her lose all her inhibitions and do whatever he wants her to do.
When she ends up on a sidewalk, 12 stories down, she becomes a victim and Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her team will not stop until they find out how it happened and why.
We have young and innocent women who gets seduced thru the net with poetry, travel and romance. They end up meeting said Romeo and don't survive the night. It is up to our kick ass cop to find the sick and twisted killer. As usual, Roarke is being his perfect self. Eve is in her usual bitchy but tenacious self. Mavis and Trina's appearance were mag! I am so glad Peabody and McNabb are together for real.
Seduction in Death is the 13th book in the gritty, futuristic detective series featuring Eve Dallas and her husband, sexy billionaire Roarke.
Eve and her team are after a serial killer who is meeting women through chat groups.
I always enjoy a cameo appearance by Mavis, Leonardo and Trina, who are tasked with disguising Eve, including fake boobs.
I enjoy seeing how Eve and Roarke continue to grow as a married couple.
I am not very far into this unique series but it's definitely one I plan to continue.
Suspense 4.25 stars / Romance 4 starsThe title says it all. Interesting crime trope. But the villains were clear in the middle of the story. I like the tension till the end.Romance. Eve and Roarke almost perfect.McNab - mega a§§hole and Peabody was pathetic. He slept with many OWs, threw it in her face and she just took him back? Give me a break!!! This installment ruined Peabody's character for me.
Muhteşem kadın Eve Dallas! Nora'nin esprili dilini okumaya bayılıyorum
Although the reader knows early in the book who the seducers are, it takes some exceptional work by Eve and her team (and expert civilian consultant - aka Roarke) to work out who they are and discover secrets going back decades.Another totally engaging book in this series, with Roarke and Eve married nearly a year and settled into domestic bliss (with a bit of bickering and lots of sex), Peabody and McNab struggling to decide if they love or hate each other (with Eve trying not to gag when the talk gets mushy), and other members of Roarke's household (Sommerset, Galahad) and Eve's fellow cops (Feeney, Trueheart, Whitney) playing their usual roles with aplomb.
A killer seduced by the idea of love targets victims of an online poetry chatroom where after making an arrangement to meet, he wines and dines them, slipping potent and rare date-rape drugs into their drinks until all they feel is euphoria and desire.
I LOVED the idea of this book.
I like that we see so many facets of Eve in one single book.This time I listened to the audio of this book and noticed right off the bat that Susan Ericksen tweaked the voices a little bit.
What a despicable pair of spoiled brats, with one being so much worse than the other. And sadly, even though this is set in the future, it's not beyond the realm of actually happening.Louise and Charles meet in this book - gotta love that couple. Ian and Charles get into a good knock around fight with "Dishy Dimato" cooling them off!McNab and Peabody get back together and this time exclusively!Two thumbs up and 5 stars!
My whole review is spoilers so don't read it unless you are masochistic.
(view spoiler)[I didn't care for the mystery so much, the one guy so weak and dependent upon the other, then the other sweeping in and, in the end, being very ineffectual.
There are some HUGE moments for Eve; horrifying dreams, horrifying thoughts that speak to her throughout, horrifying strains on her nerves as she tries to 'stand for the dead' while loving herself and her husband and the trust they have between them.
I loved this one for the moments between Eve and Roarke but I didn't care for the mystery.
(hide spoiler)]
5 stars. This series is so awesome. Eve really had he work cut our for her on this one. It was a bit dark, but the banter with everyone makes it fun and lightens the subject matter up a bit. This is quickly turning into a favorite series. I can't wait to read more.
(I can't imagine writing a review when I reach book 30-something)This one is sort of a lucky read for me, because I was gone for two weeks and out of the several books from the series I saw in one bookstore, this was one.
I loved the concepts of the crime and was really driven to shuddering at the murderer's reasoning.
This is not the most psyche case Eve's gone through, but it was a ton of shattered innocence without reason.McNab and Peabody fans will enjoy this, as will those who liked Doctor Louise.
Rereading March 2017
4 1/2 stars
