https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75003.The_Secret_Island
What I realize about The Secret Island is the juxtaposition of being grounded (in reality) and escapism.
The harsh, bleak, unkind, hopeless, scary, and tantalizing reality and situation of the four kids - Jack, Peggy and Nora and (?) Peter are both impossible and easy to solve.
Heaven is just a secret door away from hell.
I really liked the kids.
I enjoyed the fairy tale ending of this book - it was so cozy...
an ending that I'm showing mentally to dunce like cozies that can only dream of aspiring to Enid Blyton's excellence.
Can't wait to read the Secret Of Spiggly Holes.
I came to the "secret" series late, but I think this may be one of my new favorite children's adventure books.
It was different from the other adventure series because the main characters, four children, actually run away in the book, which leads them to their adventures.Three siblings are forced to live with their cruel aunt and uncle, who work them to the bone, after their pilot parents go missing.
Their adventures start after they have lived on a secret island in the middle of a gigantic lake.This book could have stood alone, but  Enid Blyton extended it into an adventure series.
There was no antagonist character in this book, making this a perfect sanctuary for children mind, creating spaces for them to escape the adult world.
The joyful life of children's world is added by Blyton's famous technique of describing food.
To read this book under the theory of children's literature, Perry Nodelman will find a perfect example for his home - away - home.
The Secret Island is really about how children construct their own place, their own world, their own lives without any interference from adults -though in the end they came back to the warm embrace of their parents.
Tired of the relentless work and abuse they team up with another orphan called Jack and plan to live on a nearby island.
Having enjoyed the start of this book, we thought it had a bit more of an edge than your average Blyton, we felt disbelief at this point how 4 children were going to remain undetected on a quite nearby island and be completely self sufficient.
As the story progressed we marvelled at the details of how they did provide for themselves and loved the autumn foraging for field mushrooms and their plans for Christmas.
Yes, this is a re-read.
I lost this book in 1990, when I moved from one country to another.
and now it's back.The story is about four children who run away and live on a secret island.
I love Enid Blyton for her portrayal of smart, strong, resourceful children, and these kids are no different.
And yes, reading this book 24 years later, it is a little cheesy, and I think of things that are unresolved (eg, loo issues!) but I still love it!!!
These are decent middle-class English kids, you know, despite the fact that their wicked relations have kept them out of school up to now so they can slave at home.
I've noticed that in spite of the fact that in those days fabrics were made to last, whenever anyone in a 1930s story for kids camps on an island, such as The Castaways of Pete's Patch their clothes are in shreds after a very short time--sometimes, less than a week!As usual in Blyton's wish-fulfillment stories, there's one lazy kid who has to learn her lesson about not letting the side down and not being a baby (ie no whining!).
However I have read that Blyton tended to make a single draft of her kids' stories, so maybe she wasn't worried about the details.
I read this while ago and still remember the story. I'm not a die-hard fan of Blyton but she never fails to entertain me. The books I read on the Secret Series, I think I enjoyed than the Famous Five series.
My favourite Enid Blyton book
I can't recall how many times I have read this book over and over...and over again.It was absolutely fascinating.Okay,maybe I'm exaggerating here.But this is my most-loved and favorite book so far.I had always loved classics.A sort-of Robinson Crusoe story,only the children weren't shipwrecked.The setting makes the story even more inviting and interesting.I love the idea of living on a SECRET island.I would definitely read this.....again.And again.
One of my first Enid Blyton books and one of my favorites. Who wouldn't like the idea of camping on a quiet island, with your best friends, away from the hustle and bustle of the world :) Highly recommended.
Loved all Enid blyton, but this was one of her best!
*3.5 stars*I just really like survivalist stories, and the long and detailed narrative of how resourceful kids manage to survive on their own in an island is just really engrossing. Little details like the rabbitskin blanket and the fruit-selling just make me want to know more.Points off because of prose and forgettability of characters, but I can tell you I DEVOURED this book when I first read it as a pre-teen.
Fabulous children's book and a good antidote to some of the other books I've been reading lately
I've read some Enid Blyton in my childhood but never got the chance to read The Secret Island. Always wanted to but never did until now, when I'm almost twenty-one, in university, trying very much to do some adulting, failing.The Secret Island is a tale of four children who run away from home to live on an island and boy oh boy do they live! These kids have better survival skills than Bear Grylls apparently.I loved reading the story. It was light, fun and cute.
Every now and again I'd remember of the tale of the children who hid their supplies in a hollow tree and set off to an island in a lake that nobody else had discovered, learning how to live from the land and almost getting caught by the grown ups.
At no point was I bored or frustrated, and I read the second half in one sitting purely because it was unputdownable - Blyton subtly incorporated a series of brilliant 'cliffhangers' that didn't seem forced, but left me positively craving more.
This started my Enid Blyton phase and I treasured the book so much.
I spent all my childhood summers there, so I could imagine myself running off to live on that island.Enid Blyton has been much ridiculed for the "sexism" in her books, but they were of a different era, and that was actually how things were in society.
What sets her stories apart is the way they appeal to the imagination of children from many different generations.
No wonder modern children love these stories.
And how sad that they can only imagine what such freedom would be like.
And wow, how well they managed their own little island.
They had a leader, they built their own home, they ‘hunted’ for food, they raised their own farm stock, they had daily chores to do… they functioned well as a society, these little ones.
This is a story about the children’s adventures told in a very innocent, childlike manner.I think it’s just being older than these kids and imagining being on the other side of the equation—the ones that are left behind—that freaked me out.
These kids are so young.
* I received an ARC of this book from the publisher via NetGalley.
This in no way swayed my opinion of the book.
There are some scary moments and hardships, like people going to the island on a picnic and Jack going to the mainland to townships / villages where they are not known to sell produce to discover the police are searching for them.Please note that this is an old fashioned book and may contain some old fashioned language / concepts
This book was my childhood When I was a kid, I read ALOT of Enid Blyton.
Enid Blyton inspired me to no end.But I think my favourite book of hers was probably this one.
The idea of escaping to an island and making a home of your own there.
Using the grass and twigs to build a house.
Building a pantry in a cave.
I would recommend this book to every child ever and my kids will most certainly be having this book read to them multiple numbers of time.
This is my all-time-favourite story during my younger days.I used to read the story again and again 
Started it three nights ago with Alex, and we're done already - why?
Because after I finished Chapter 2 last night Alex begged and begged for more.
I told him he could read ahead on his own - and he finished it in one night!
The story of four kids running away and living on an island is as enchanting now as it was when I first read it.
This is the best of the series, yet it's three of the others that are available on Kindle.
Get this one used - it's worth it - then kindle the others.
Bērnības zelta klasika, tikai no pieaugušā skatpunkta loģika vairs neiztur, un var just, ka Blaitone izšļūc uz bērnu rēķina, jo viņi tādus tehniskus jautājumus neuzdod. :DLai nu kā, kurš sīkais gan negribēja būt Džeks, kurš zin visādus trikus, un pavadīt vasaru uz salas prom no stulbajiem un sliktajiem pieaugušajiem :D
Pure nostalgia! I loved this book as a child, and I still love it now. A tale of self-sufficiency for four runaway children. A bit sexist by today's standards, but very enjoyable never-the-less.
I adore this book - I picked it up when I was ten years old and to this day I can remember the way it drew me in. Childrens writing at its finest.
When I was a kid, this was my fantasy. I read this book multiple times. It is still stuck in my brain!! I'm afraid to read it again though, in case memory is altered!
I remembered liking the Malay version of the book that I borrowed back in the days when I was in the elementary school (and that was 15 years ago!), "Pulau Rahsia".I had read the story over and over again, that I knew very well what was going to happen next.
Ahh, reminiscing childhood had never felt so good!Only later in high school, I had a chance to get myself the English version of it.
After scrambling through my old things, I finally reunited with my favourite book, and decided to re-read it.I just loved loved loved it!
my all time fave lift me up book.
i read this first when i was young, and now that im married, have a daughter and dealing with a lot of grown up things, i always turn to this book at difficult times.
i probably read it so much like a bible.
this book will teach you so much, how kids really are smarter than we think, how they can be independent when the situation calls for it, how quick witted you have to be when you have nothing but nature.
and how strong a person can be in difficult times.
This is one of my all time favorites, that I had the good fortune of finding and reading again, when clearing out my shelves recently. It used to be such a vivid description and such a fantastic story, that I cast my cousins and sister into the various characters, and used to actually enact the whole story, day after day, when I had read it first (way when I was a kid)!Nostalgic book, very close to my heart!
This audio version took me back to my childhood, over the years I have read the Enid Blyton books many times so it’s nice to have them coming out on audio. Even as an adult I still enjoy my child/tween favourites, especially those written by Enid. The narrator reads these well and I enjoyed listening to it.
This book is astounding.
If I had to pick one Enid Blyton book to reread forever it would be this one, and undoubtedly, it is one of her books that I find myself constantly rereading well into my late adolescent years.
It is a younger version of The Blue Lagoon and focuses more on friendships, rather than relationships.
Clearly I have a thing for adventures of hidden islands.
Who knows?
I do know, however, that Jack and the gang surviving on their own took incredible skill and intelligence.
Very inspiring for all children (hopefully kids don't pick up on the idea of running away lol).
