https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107796.Rebellious_Desire
Ugh. Those parts of the book did not sit well with meThat said, Julie Garwood has written some of my favorite historical romance novels of all time (Saving Grace, Ransom, The Lion's Lady, For the Roses, to name a few).
And it looks like this book was her first or second novel so I'm going to let my upset feelings for this book go.
That said, if you are Garwood fan and HAVE to read EVERYTHING by her, then go ahead and read this.
Another great story by Julie Garwood, and while I really liked it, I didn't love it.Bradford was one of, if not the most annoying, of all the Garwood heroes. Dare I say, even worse than all of the Highlanders put together.But it was still a fun read.
3.5-4stars!I started with reading this book on the beginning of the week.
Because I have paperback, and Julie Garwood can make my day, this one was read-on-class-when-bored.
Trust me, this was first time that I was happy about boring classes.Julie Garwood can't write bad book.
I don't know if there is something in her blood or what, but her books always make me happy.Every book that she wrote and I read, got from me 4 or 5 stars.This one got 3.5-4 stars just because I wasn't so sure about heroine Caroline.
Now I remember why I always only give this four stars. Jered is an ass.
So, midway through it I realized this was a Julie Garwood book..And it was a shock.After being used to the likes of Alec, Ian and Broderick- the bar was set so high that Bradford was a grave disappointment.I'm all for insta love and obsessive heroes- but being blinded by jealousy, having major trust issues, overbearing, arrogant and asshole are something which makes a hero non alpha and a total dbag.To be honest, the book frustrated me.
I wanted to shake Caroline for giving in every single time, even when he doubted her (I don't believe the love makes you blind argument) and then being seduced by him without effort.It was poorly executed.
Caroline gave her love so freely, and Bradford took forever to reciprocate.
I read everything Julie Garwood writes, but some of her older books just irritate me.
I realize that it was a pattern in historicals written in the 80's, to have the female protagonist get walked all over.
I hate that.
And I really hate that the author never has this male lead accept responsibility for his being a dumb-ass, and there is never any genuine apology!
Call me a modern woman, but I like the more modern historicals where people acknowledge and learn form their mistakes, not just pretend it all never happened.
Irritating.
I would have given it more stars, but I had such high expectations I felt cheated. Ohh It was all very good,alright. Just that I was disappointed.
4/7/17 sale 1.99.
I think if you're going to write a historical romance set in England, you need to get at least, a few things right. The farthest historical period that Julie Garwood can imagine seems to be 1950's America. The book was really awful. Not only the historical and cultural aspects were jarring, but the hero is such a Douche bag. Julie Garwood can write, she creates the flow, and her characters come alive, and can, at times be even entertaining, but she's sloppy with everything else.
A blog I read recommended this author, so I found this book, which looked promising to me, at my local library.
Honestly, it sat around awhile as I read a couple of amazing books I had been waiting for (talkin’ ‘bout the super talented Tessa Dare here).
I cannot fully express how awful this book is compared to what I usually read.
I have read many books from the 80's with aloof, chest-pounding males, but the hero in this story is absolutely unlovable.
I doubt I can read any book by this author again.
Jered/Duke of Bradford and Caroline.
The mystery was actually pretty good!Caroline has grown up in America after the death of her mother.
And so she heads out with her cousin Charity, and their servant/body guard, Ben. Upon a lonely stretch or road Caroline rescues a pompous fool from Brigands and meets Lord Bradford, the fool's friend, when he comes along too little, too late.
The mystery was pretty good too.
Instead the focus remains on the romance between Jered and Caroline  (hide spoiler)]
3.25 stars
The only thing I really disliked are the hero and heroine.Caroline starts the book as a self confident and assertive woman, who in the opening scene, single-handedly foils a carriage robbery with a combination of daring, quick thinking, and fine shooting.
The duke is an arrogant, bullying ape who declares that he will "have" Caroline, and proceeds to spend the better part of the book yelling at her and emotionally abusing her.
Very well written book, with unfortunate lead characters.
Jered Marcus Benton, the Duke of Bradford and Caroline Richmond's book.
I particularly liked how Caroline and Bradford met.
The carriage hijack of his friend Brummell was well written and I felt the immediate connection between Bradford and Caroline.
I was hoping that Brummell would play a bigger part in the story because it was even more enjoyable when they later met at one of the balls.
The little mystery that was added in the story was a little blan.
The idea of Caroline being sent away to the colonies when she was 4 was sad.
Él la aborda sexualmente rozando la violación. La besa, la manosea, aun cuando ella no quiere, y él sigue de todas formas porque quiere tenerla a pesar de sus objeciones. Parece que ella no puede decidir al respecto. Es asqueroso."Al advertir que él no parecía dispuesto a detener su tierno asalto, Caroline se alarmó todavía más.Después de eso, ni valía la pena continuar. Brandford es un personaje bastante desagradable. Lo peor es que yo compré el libro y no pienso terminarlo. Eso nos deja una enseñanza: todas las buenas autoras han tenido sus tonterías absurdas en sus años mozos.
Read in 2012, when I was reading anything written by Julie Garwood. It's quite good, but I can't rate it a 5. She has other books I give that rating to and unkindly I'm rating it against that group.An American daughter of an Earl is transported and raised in Boston till her 20th birthday comes home.
Overall, I liked Caroline and thought it was very sweet of her to try everything she could think of to win her stubborn husband's heart and trust, even though she shouldn't have had to.Probably due in large part to Jered's behavior, I didn't really feel much of a connection between these two for most of the story.
The love scenes and the ending when Jered finally comes around were the only times I really felt the emotional connection between this pair.It's never a good sign when I like secondary characters better than the main characters.
Diantara badai ancaman pembunuhan, kecemburuan diantara mereka berdua juga bergolak mendidih yg menyebabkan Bradford terpaksa menyingkirkan Caroline ke desanya.Novel ini luar biasa membosankan, repetitif-nya benar-benar keterlaluan sehingga saya merasa seperti anak SD yg baru diajari baca buku dewasa.
Karakter Caroline juga rada kontradiktif, sbg gadis yg dibesarkan rada tomboy, Caroline punya sisi dungu dan kekanak-kanakan yg sangat menyebalkan.
Karakter Bradford juga tidak kalah kekanakannya, cuma badan gede yg berotak kosong dan tingkat kecemburuan yg fantastis bodohnya.
Saya tidak tahu apakah krn novel ini dibuat thn 1986, entah kenapa situasi dan kondisi serta karakter tokoh-tokohnya jadi mirip-mirip opera sabun Amerika yg ngetop thn 80an tsb yg rada norak.
Es bastante gracioso.
Ellos se conocen en una noche cuando ella ayuda a uno de sus amigos a recuperarse de un ataque de unos bandidos.
Ella lo está apuntando con una pistola, y lejos de intimidarse por el hecho de que él la apunte a ella, lo desafía.
Lo gracioso de ésta relación es que ella no cede, pese a que él le gusta.
Él tiene que luchar por ella, jugar sucio.
Incluso luego de casarse, es bastante gracioso.
Cuando él entra a su cuarto y ve todo vacío, EPIC jajaja.
Loved ItVery fun and fast moving. I loved the back and forth dialogue of the 2 main characters. Couldn't put it down O read it in one afternoon
Por un lado tenemos al Jared Marcus Benton, hombre grande en estatura y ego, acostumbrado a tenerlo todo y no confiar en nada ni nadie, sus padres se encargaron de grabarle esa lección; en un momento fortuito y tratando de su salvar a un amigo, tropieza con una joven americana venida a menos, que es la antítesis de una dama, la chica lo intriga y lo hace desearla; acepta el reto que ella supone, de todas formas esta seguro de que solo será una aventura pasajera.
Now, Caroline has returned to England, determined to find her cousin's fiance and reconnect with her father.
Caroline manages to save the stranger by shooting the gun out of the bandits hand.
Bradford is immediately drawn to Caroline and vows to have her.Caroline is not so easily swayed, but she is attracted to Bradford and after reconnecting with her father, knows that she will remain in England instead of returning to Boston as she originally thought.
Passions rage between Bradford and Caroline and he manages to convince her to marry him.
I love Julie Garwood.
I did NOT love this book.
I don't even remember the main character's names.
That being said, while I enjoy a book about a brooding, arrogant male, I was not a fan of the Baron or Earl or whatever he was.
He just treated his woman as though she was a 'play thing'.
I can't remember her name...
she started the novel as though she was this strong independent woman, and half way through...
it clearly showed that she was NOT strong what so ever.
Yes, their love making seemed nice.
This book was lacking.
I still love you Julie.
To quote a friend: "I wish this book had a face, that way I could slap it." I have read almost 200 historical romances now and this was by far the worst of the lot.
I thought the heroine would be interesting as we open up with her as a pistol toting badass but somewhere between chapter 1 and 2 she seems to have lost her spine and had a lobotomy.
He not only comes fairly close to forcing himself on the heroine but gets angry at her TWICE when she is mauled by other men.
Needless to say, I will NOT be reading any more Julie Garwood books.
The historical inaccuracies. The insta-lust. The character inconsistency. The OH NO SHIT THEY CONSIDER THEMSELVES SISTERS. The Boundaries McTrampler, "I don't care what you want", "allow me to stalk your ass" hero. The last is what did it for me. NOT ENOUGH NOAP for that guy. Also the fact that in ONE THIRD of the book, all that had happened was the above. Mystery plot? Nah. Melodrama? OH YES. Look. I know it's cheap. Skip it anyway.
Caroline Richmond was raised in America by her aunt and uncle. Now she has returned to England and is on her way to see her father after so many years of separation. She encounters the Duke of Bradford after she rescues a man whose carriage was stopped by robbers. Later they meet again while attending a ball. Like many of Ms Garwood's novels, the story is filled with delightful banter and a wonderful cast of characters and put together in an enjoyable and entertaining manner.
I loved the beginning, but disliked the ending, because Jered was an idiot. One of the worst Garwood heroes. The only Garwood historical I liked less than this one is The Wedding, because Conner was dense.
This book was so poorly written that I couldn't bring myself to finish it.
Can not believe i once liked this book...........Bradford is the world's biggest asshole and Caroline loses her backbone after the first 15 pages.No just no!
Price drop. $1.99. 4/7/17.Re-read October 24, 2014.Re-read January 11, 2016.
