https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113486.Hell_in_a_Very_Small_Place
Fall's "Hell in a Very Small Place" is undeniably a classic of military history.
Fall had an unusual career as an academic who conducted field research by accompanying first French forces and later Americans into combat in Indochina.
Such dedication to his work eventually cost him his life."Hell in a Very Small Place" is the definitive account of the battle at Dien bien phu -- a debacle that ended the French empire in Indochina.
In 1966 David Schoenbrun said of "Hell in a Very Small Place" that "future historians will be using Fall's book as their main source material." Thirty nine years after publication, that statement is still true.
Dien Bien Phu is one of those battles that has shaped the course of history.
In 55 days of brutal siege warfare, the Viet Minh under General Giap defeated a French garrison, ending French involvement in Vietnam, and setting the stage for America's bloody war.
Dien Bien Phu fell only after every bullet was fired, and the position over run.
Communist flak, and the endurance of coolie porters carrying 200 kg loads on modified bicycles hundreds of miles through the jungle proved them wrong.Dien Bien Phu was an atypical set-piece of battle, not characteristic of the war as a whole.
Bernard Fall là phóng viên người Pháp gốc Do Thái, viết nhiều sách về Việt Minh và chiến tranh Việt Nam. Ông chết vì mìn năm 1967 trên chiến trường Việt Nam khi đang hành quân cùng một trung đội lính thủy đánh bộ Mỹ.
Cuốn sách của Fall tường thuật chi tiết cuộc chiến Điện Biên Phủ từ góc nhìn người Pháp, với ít nhiều thiện cảm cho Việt Minh (có lẽ là lý do cuốn sách được dịch phát hành tại Việt Nam).
Một chi tiết thú vị là tướng De Castries bị bắt nhưng, khác với sách giáo khoa sử, chưa bao giờ giương cờ trắng đầu hàng cả.
This book should be read following a read of "Street Without Joy".
The level of detail within this book is nothing short of brilliant.
The follow through at the end of this book only adds to the substantial level of work that Dr. Fall placed within the effort.
Dr. Fall's life was a "book" all unto itself and any person taking on the reading of "Street Without Joy" as well as this book should attempt along the way to understand the life that he himself led and had prior to his professional education.
Fall had started out as pro French but eventually concluded that the war was unwinnable.
Hell in a Very Small Place is the story of the battle of Dien Bien Phu, an isolated valley near the Laotian border in northwest Vietnam.
General Henri Navarre, commander of French forces in Indochina, decided a set piece battle in the valley would lure Viet Minh troops away from the Red River Delta and allow the French to take back territory lost.
South Vietnamese forces NEVER had the motivation or skills to defeat Giap, not in the 40s, 50s, 60s or 70s, and to say otherwise is to give in to the delusions that fueled the wars from the start.Fall's book is indispensable reading.
In analyzing the French defeat at Dien Bien Phu, he perfectly balances the strategic, tactical, and personal stories of the siege.
Fall correctly states that Dien Bien Phu was not lost in the valley bordering Laos, but in the colonial capital of Hanoi, in Paris, and in Washington, D.C. Paratroopers began landing in Dien Bien Phu before an adequate reason was stated for their being there; the leading Generals, Navarre (commanding all of Vietnam) and Cogny (commanding the forces in North Vietnam) were at odds as to the purpose of the base.
He made several trips to Indochina during both the French and American wars in Vietnam.
He died in 1967 when he stepped on a land mine.The French battle at Dien Bien Phu had many parallels with the American battle at Huế.
Hell in a Very Small Place: The Siege of Dien Bien Phu is the story of the French battle in 1954.
The conduct of the battle was described in great detail and it could be dry at times.
The book shows a slice of the big picture— one that Americans seldom see.

It is shameful that people have no knowledge or only mere cursory knowledge of the name, of Dien Bien Phu. Why firebase operations continued and continue to this day as a manner of conducting operations other than war or warfare operations is an astounding denial of hard learned knowledge by people who have not experienced 57 days of shelling.
I fear many who read this lack context to sufficient sympathize or imagine what an environment like this would be like, but I hope that the concentration camp comparisons are enough to open people's eyes.
I read this because my details on the event were fuzzy.
I doubt I'll soon forget what I've read.
'In 1940 the French didn't know how to use tanks, in 1954 they didn't know how to use planes' is Fall's quick and dirty summation. While not quite as good as his 'Street without Joy' Hell in a very small place is still a very good read on the most important battle fought since World War 2. Fall is an excellent writer with keen insight, a must read for any student of history.
As it was written in the midst of America's own disastrous adventure in Vietnam, this book also draws very clear and painful parallels between the French experience and the ongoing war - and how the latter may have been easily avoided with American assistance in the former.There can be no doubt that Dien Bien Phu, far from being a purely French defeat, became an American defeat as well [...] From 1965 onward, the United States was willing to go to work for the sake of preserving what her President calls her 'national honor'.
Journalists and Foreign Service officers seeking to make sense of the war likewise devoured his books and articles, as did general readers drawn in by this transplanted Frenchman’s acute powers of observation and robust and engaging English prose.To read Fall today is to be struck by his deep understanding of French counterinsurgency efforts in Indochina and other parts of the empire and their clear relevance for what the Americans sought to achieve in Vietnam.
A book that some translations lack the punch of the original in French and further lose a bit of the flow, still is better than any other work of the period and is the equal or better any other coverage of a battle.
A twenty five year acquaintance with this book and Fall's other masterpiece, Street Without Joy continue to yield new reasons to read Fall's work.
A blunder of unknown dimension created by the follies of colonial mindset and misguided dynamics of asymmetric war.
The french defeat at Dien Bien Phu is exquisitely described by Bernard Fall in this outstanding work of scholarly research and history.
The book brings to light the lessons and blunders not merely their isolated happenings but how the rot was there from the beginning.
The war was fought by french to cling to their colonial possessions in Indochina with completely underestimating the Vietnamese desire to gain independence.
Fall provides not just military history but also shows how it should be written.The book is superbly narrated with profound sense of research.
According to Michael Herr, author of the popular Dispatches, Fall's account of French defeat at Dien Bien Phu a decade earlier became the secret cult classic text among reporters and some officers for understanding the fate awaiting American mission in Vietnam.
Fall, a victim of the war he covered through two decades, was French himself, and in addition to heroically detailed account of the battle -- strategies, stories of individual acts of doomed bravery -- provides insight into same element of national arrogance that came to plague American leaders only ten years later.
Engrossing.
Great books can transport a reader from an armchair to any place in the universe, and Bernard Fall succeeds in parachuting the reader into the hellish battlescape of Dien Bien Phu. Fall's book is impressively stuffed with information, objectively related, about the French forces, troops, and politicians behind the scheme to send a large contingent of troops into the far northwestern reaches of Vietnam and strike a decisive blow against the nascent communist-nationalist forces under Ho Chi Minh.The troop terminology and intimate descriptions of the battlefield are downright byzantine at first, though as one marches through the book the narrative of events on the many hills and positions inside Dien Bien Phu build upon the landscape as it appeared.
Given the US history of being anti-colonial (at least up to that time), we could have better staved off communism by helping the Vietnamese boot the French out--the communist would not have been able to win the minds of the Vietnamese if they did not have such a strong outside enemy to rally the people behind.Beyond the history this book has to offer, the story of the battle is amazing, by itself, and then there are the leadership examples the story contains, aplenty.
An incredibly detailed history of the battle of Dien Bien Phu, and the failure of both French and American imperialists to understand the Vietnamese insurgency as a nationalist one not a communist one.
One criticism is that it is mostly a general's view of history, detailing how battles played out, with less analysis of the experience of people who actually lived through it (especially the Vietnamese themselves).
One fascinating thing he details is the number of French colonial soldiers who were brought from other colonies, and the extent to which they took the anti-imperialist message home to their own countries even though they had been fighting for France.
I first read this book 16 years ago.
Then I went to Afghanistan in 2006 and was fortunate enough to work with Skip Booth.
He is an expert on Dien Bien Phu and has actually walked the ground.
I read everything i could get shipped to the APO on Dien Bien Phu.I have re-read this and my perspective based on my past experiences in conflict zones remains unchanged.
This book is invaluable for the lessons in guerrilla war, leadership, tenacity, politics and failure.
Many historians attribute WW II to the tide of events that began in the 1870'S and ended in 1918.
This was probably one of the harder books for me to read, just because of how dense it is, and how hard it is to unpack that much information into something you can comprehend. But I feel that for anyone who has a passing interest in the American Vietnam war should probably start here. an in depth look at how hubris, overconfidence, and a complete lack of even attempting to understand your enemy can bring an army and even an empire to ruin.
Excellent and well documented campaign history. Not for the casually interested. Good catalogue of every mistake military leaders can commit— unrealistic objectives, untested assumptions, divided/rivalrous commands, chauvinistic assumptions, poor communications. The reader will gain respect for the courage of many of the participants.
Essentially a perfect recount of France’s last stand in Indochina. The detail is thorough but not overburdensome, and the characters all treated respectfully but truthfully. This is how war correspondence and memoirs should be done.
I have always wanted to read more about this battle. When a reading condition autographed copy popped up on Ebay for a decent price I was excited to get it. The account is deeply detailed and makes you feel like you are right there.
Set a high standard for military history
Fall, a journalists, was killed covering the Vietnam War.He left behind a huge legacy with Hell in a Very Small Place.I read it before visiting Dien Bien Phu.That battle was decisive and with the French defeat, the Americans tried their luck as a colonial power. From the generals to the foot soldiers on both sides of the battle, Fall brings into their world of camouflage uniforms, carbines, monsoon rains, the terrain, the siege techniques, and the heavy barrage of artillery.
It cost the Viet Minh thousands of casualties and the French everything.
LB Johnson was actually in a position where his decision and support might have changed the course of history and perhaps precluded the later involvement of American forces in that conflict.
The battle demanded almost evrything they had available and without supplies provided by Russia and particularly China it would certainly have gone the other way.
Apparently American arrogance could not quite cope with the idea that they might be a match, sine one of their greatest mistakes was underestimation at every level, of the Vietnamese as an enemy.A stunning piece of work.
Sadly, full attention is not easily given in our time.I fortuitously read Fall's Street Without Joy on a beach vacation a few years ago.
Surely, the beach is the place to get yourself deep into the world's great ideas, insights, and writing, that is, the stuff that really makes life worth living.Sadly, there are not as many beach vacations in a lifetime as there are book that merit your undivided attention (like this one).
But sometimes certain books just arrive at the wrong time in life.
Reading Fall's detailed, incisive 1966 account of the final days of the French war in Vietnam, I find it difficult to imagine a scenario in which American political and military leadership ever believed in a different outcome for the American war in Vietnam, particularly after they were schooled by this book and the French experience.
In short, the fundamental French (and later American) miscalculations about the staying power, determination, willingness to incur lengthy and deep losses of life, and nationalistic fervor of the Viet Minh, as well as the futility of an outsider's dominant military powers, were all readily apparent in the French defeat in 1954.
By page 84 in Bernard Fall’s masterful account, HELL IN A VERY SMALL PLACE: THE SIEGE OF DIEN BIEN PHU, the raison d'être for the outpost’s existence had been shown to be unworkable.
More troops were increasingly needed to maintain the outpost which required even more air drops of supplies, which were always inadequate and which in turn required ever more troops to resist the collapse.
HIAVSP is, of course, the definitive account of the siege and hardly needs a review by me.
