https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/537124.Deryni_Rising
When the Deryni overlords are finally overthrown by the humans it is with the help of Camber of Culdi.
After the humans are/were freed they rejoiced and there was a time (apparently 10 to 15 years) when the Deryni people (the people other than the overlords) and the humans worked and lived together in peace.
At the time of the book, the "church" as a whole is still condemning of Deryni because of (it is claimed) the use of magic.
Camber's Sainthood has been revoked and persecution is still common.The Story follows the events which take place after Brion the King of Gwynedd is murdered and his son Kelson is to take the throne.
3.0 stars.
This is a good, solid, well written epic fantasy and if it was the first medieval fantasy story I had ever read would certainly rate higher.
The problem for me is that as I read more and more fantasy stories the various medieval settings and magic systems start to blend together and it takes something really special to set a book apart from the rest of the "herd." This story, while very well done and an interesting read, is smack dab in the absolute center of standard fantasy fare so 3 stars is about as high as I can go with it.
Nominee: Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Best Adult Fiction.
It's her first book, apparently, so the writing and characterization can get a little rough, and I honestly don't think she knows how to write men.
It happens about ten times throughout the novel, and by about the fifth time I was sick of it.
The race-hatred which under-girds the characters' willingness to believe lies about the framed parties is definitely a feature worth exploring and, to her credit, she does manage to show it FAR more than tell it.
But again, after the fifth time it started to just feel silly.
In the end, though, I did think it was a neat little book.
Ugh.Aside from being flawless and objectively good, two of our main heroes gain super-powerful magic abilities just as they are needed.
It's unsurprising that the magic-wielding Deryni were dictators back in this novel's history, until they were deposed....The main villain of the story is a woman, and Kelson's mother Jehana also has a role to play, but other than them and a couple of random serving women who show up for one scene and are never seen again, they're invisible, completely absent from the story.
Now they're a mostly-hidden, mostly-despised minority.Kelson becomes king of Gwynnedd at the ripe old age of 14, and faces all manner of intrigues and prejudice (directed not at him but at his Deryni advisor Morgan), to say nothing of the Shadowed One, an evil sorceress who thinks she should be in charge.I wonder if this book doesn't get as much credit as it deserves -- as far as I can tell, it was one of the first books to kind of bridge the gap between Tolkienian high fantasy and Howardian sword & sorcery.
The heroes and villains are all human (more or less), they're mostly members of the noble class, and the plot tends more to political intrigues and dynastic succession rather than epic battles against a Dark Lord or adventures in tomb-robbing and other skullduggery.
Not light reading - very deep historical fantasy text - and brilliantly done by a woman who was a church historian for some 20 years.There are 14 books in the main cannon (so far - and a 15th on the way) - 6 in the "historical" time period and 8 in the "now" - that is, the series is about the world of the Deryni - consider: What if earth had 2 species develop side by side - one that had all those magical/esper abilities and one that didn't?
What if we looked at this world through the lens of 200 years of history?
I've read and reread the Deryni trilogies every few years throughout the past 4 decades.King Kelson Cinhil Rhys Anthony Haldane was one of my boyhood heroes and I still have a very warm place in my heart for him.
I do like him better in The Histories of King Kelson, the later series.
I'm glad that she dropped the rhymes after this book, but they do make the climactic battle between Kelson and his nemesis Clarissa a lot of fun.
Overall, I think I will continue reading this book and series for years to come and it definitely qualifies as one of my favorite comfort reads.
Magic, politics, murder and deceit are all involved, and we are introduced to the main characters of Kelston, the 14 year old prince; Alaric Morgan, his Champion (in the true meaning of the word); and Duncan McLain, his Confessor.The Deryni of the title is the lineage of some of the major characters: a melding of magic, occult, and 'abnormal' abilities.
Kelston, Alaric and Duncan are all 'half-breeds', though with learning and tutelage they can become extremely adept (as is shown in the ultimate confrontation with the 'evil' person at the end of the story).With hindsight, and this recent reading, I realise that the writing is prolific and flowery, going into minute detail of furnishings, clothes, buildings and such.
Like Bond villains, they have to give their victims time and opportunity to evade their clutches (though the heroes do that, too).
The male villain fancies himself a great swordsman, yet apparently he's never demonstrated it publicly.
You have to practice at it—against other people!And then the climax… wasn't.It was Kurtz' first novel, and my recollection is that she got better (and this does have many things going for it) but I suspect if this has been my first reading I would never have got around to reading the next five.The medieval almost-Wales setting and the medieval almost-Catholic church, along with the race of humans who can use magic, makes for a great setting, though in this book they're underdeveloped
I have no idea why, except that I was reading it over about 10 days and so maybe my mood just changed to where this is what I wanted.This is an utterly cliched sort of fantasy novel set in a prettified Medieval pseudo-Wales, except that it was written in 1970 before all of these tropes became cliched as heck.
And yet it was a great read for Halloween, and in spite of everything I could smell the rain and feel the warmth of the fire and the weight of the heavy cloak as the characters set out into the night to do what must be done.
They have been persecuted for years by the Church (clearly meant to be our medieval Catholic church) and most people with Deryni blood choose to hide and/or deny their lineage and magical powers.The plot is simple: in the prologue, King Brion (King of Gwynned) is killed by the evil Deryni sorceress Charissa who wants his throne.
Charissa plans to challenge Brion's 14-year old son (and heir) Kelson to a magical duel during Kelson's coronation.
This is the first of Katherine Kurtz's amazing books about the Deryni, a race of magic wielding people set in a medieval times.
While it isn't our world, it almost feels like it.
The political institutions are like ours were.
The one major difference is that magic works.The books are set in a series of trilogies.
Kurtz's writing becomes much more polished in later books but it's worth getting though this to get to them.
The world is richly detailed and feels more real than any other fantasy series has ever managed for me.
Of course, the July 2008 reading is the most recent time I've reread this favourite.
I fell in love with main character Alaric Morgan back then.
Rereading the book now, I see its flaws, but still enjoy it.
A rollicking fantasy with great characters, a bit of magic, some swordplay, and maybe a bit too much description.
The third in the series is by far the tightest of the three, but also the hardest to read as the series gets darker throughout.These books still occupy a place on the top shelf in my collection, and even with their flaws, I don't think I'd move them down.
I read this book years ago and decided to do a re-read.It is the story of the death of the current King of Gwynedd (a bit like Wales) and his sons coronation.
It is full of Deryni magic and involves an evil sorceress.It is very pseudo medieval and full of chivalric stuff with a few gaffs(i.e cotton wool)and to be fair there is not much to it.
The writing is a bit juvenile now for my more mature tastes.
It was alright but cliched and lacking depth.If an author turned out such a book today they would not get published.
Having been told that I must read the Deryni series, I chose this revised, recently reprinted edition of the very first book. By itself, the book is adequate, if a bit more ’young adult’ than I expected. There are some obvious plot difficulties that are more a reflection of the novel's age, having been written in 1970, than the writer's ability. The thing that gets you past this is that Kurtz creates great characters that draw you into the story and make you keep reading. I can’t wait for the next book, Deryni Checkmate, which is being reprinted in December.
The Chronicles of the Deryni sequences all set in a highly detailed, coherent Parallel World whose society is hierarchical and in many of its aspects medieval Welsh. These chronicles tell the history of a group of humans whose witchlike Psi Powers, the explanation for which hovers between sf and mysticism, cause them to be persecuted by a medieval Church. The first-written novel Deryni Rising is perhaps the best, but the whole is generally much above average for Heroic Fantasy and is well characterized, although sometimes archaic and modern language clash.
The first in the series Chronicles of the Deryni. I can see why so many like it, as it is a fast read with a strong plot and likeable characters. On to book two.
Then a friend of mine got me into Terry Brooks, so I read a ton of those books, all the while finding them to be lacking in ways I couldn't quite put my finger on.
I keep a lot of those "older" books still on my shelf because I tell myself one day I'll be able to look past the cheesy dialogue and happy endings and heroes on their quests for magic relics and see the value in these classic stories.
It reads more like a prologue for this world than a whole book in itself.
I love how this book gives you a nice blend of magic, fantasy, and it’s setting is in a fictional version of the British Isles.
This is nice because not only do you have a solid established setting without too much world building, but it also focuses more on the fantasy/magic aspect so you don’t have to worry much about the setting itself.
I liked how Kelson gave her a good tell off, it did put her back in her place as she was really starting to get to me during a certain part in the book.
The above conceded, there are real problems with the writing in this book that I now see with my experience in the craft now guiding my eye.
Also, the author consistently, endlessly, dulls the impact of her writing by the continual use of "began to..." ...
Come on!I may continue re-reading the rest of this series just to explore how I got so caught up in this story so many years ago, but frankly, I'm now glad I re-read it just to gauge my own progress as a writer.PS - If I were even 1/10th as successful as this author, I'd be a very happy lad.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Katherine Kurtz is truly a mistress of fantasy -- she's been writing high epic fantasy for 40 years and should be considered one of the post-Tolkien "parents" of our genre.The setting of the Deryni saga is an alternate medieval Europe (clearly analogous to our medieval England and Wales) and the Deryni are a magical race who look just like, and can interbreed with, humans.
They have been persecuted for years by the Church (clearly meant to be our medieval Catholic church) and most people with Deryni blood choose to hide and/or deny their lineage and magical powers.The plot is simple: in the prologue, King Brion (King of Gwynned) is killed by the evil Deryni sorceress Charissa who wants his throne.
The world and magic aren't adequately explained; the characters feel like explorations more than fully-rounded people; there are a total of two major female characters, one of whom is evil while the other is hysterical; chapter-ending cliffhangers are resolved a page later with absolutely no justification for the initial tension; and the prose is riddled with unnecessary speech tags and adverbs (some of them extra-questionable).Not much really happens in this slight volume, which covers a decidedly narrow time frame--really only a couple of days.
REREAD: 14 March 2016 - 19 March 2016 (7/10)As I said back in 2005 (good grief, over 10 years ago), I remember finding these books amazing but hard work as, especially later in the series, they do get very grim.
As an added irritant were stupid things like "his skittish warhorse pranced" (if it's skittish it's not a warhorse), and telling the reader every.single.colour and description of every item of clothing.
The author doesn't have an ebook for sale anywhere and I don't buy paper books (trees, shipping, storage ...) Can someone tell me why every author doesn't have at least a dodgy cheap ebook version of each of their books?
There are pirate versions everywhere of this book but not a single legal edition for sale.
"Deryni Rising" was quick and fun to read (it only took my a day and a half to get through, and that's with a one year old around).
Female characters seem to be stupid, evil, or irrational (or some combination of the three), and there are no women that end up having a real lasting presence in the story.
Chapters tend to end on cheap cliffhangers, which really isn't necessary since the action never really changes location.
Despite these issues I did enjoy the book and intend to go on and read more in this series.
Having had this book on my shelf for many a year, I finally picked it up and read it and have been kicking myself for not discovering this fabulous series earlier in my sci-fi/fantasy reading life.
One reason why I won't touch Game of Thrones and have discarded many samples from my Kindle (The noted exceptions being Michael J Sullivan and Brandon Sanderson, two of my favourite writers.)Put simply, the story is about a young boy coming into his own as king after the sudden death of his father.
I liked both the name and the characteristics of a key character so much, I named my son after him, Alaric.
Now he is an adult, he actually looks much like I envision this character and exhibits many of the same characteristics such as loyalty, compassion, adventurist.
Re-reading the "Chronicles of the Deryni" and "The Histories of King Kelson" series again was fantastic fun.
What I enjoyed most was the sense of innocence in the stories.
Much has changed since 1979!I also read Kurtz's most recent book, "King Kelson's Bride." I enjoyed this book as well but did not feel the same sense of innocence.
I love it!It's pretty simple and straight forward fantasy but I don't care.
Outsider/outcast finding a father figure and best friend who gets killed and know he is the father figure/best friend of the son.
I've been so scared that he'll get killed but he survived!
\o/The other characters have been great too - I love reading about Duncan and Kelson and am very curious about Derry.
But, she had an awesome part at the end of the book and that helps a bit.There have been moments, when I had to remind myself that this book has been written/published in 1970 but all in all, I really enjoyed reading this one and I'm looking forward to the next parts.
The first of the trilogies about King Kelson and his advisor, Duke Alaric Morgan, begins with a bang.
The longtime friendship between Morgan and Kelson's father is a given, and revealed in natural mentions and anecdotes, rather than laid out in the first chapter.
I've found an interesting thing about these books, too: if you start reading the Deryni novel with this trilogy, then these are your favorite characters.
If you start with the Camber books, then those are your favorite.
I started with this book .
so needless to say, I am a Morgan-Kelson girl all the way!
(Though I love the Heirs of Saint Camber trilogy almost as much.)
This was my first read by author Katherine Kurtz and I thought she presented a credible medieval fantasy setting.
Deryni Rising is full of court intrigue which is mostly believable.
Some of the plot was a little transparent, but this book still presented a nice entryway into a series that has been around for awhile and seems to have a solid fan base.
It hard to imagine that this book was released 43 years ago!
There were just a few minor things which bothered me-a prime example is why the clergy used LATIN in a fantasy setting??
