https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107299.An_Old_Captivity
This old yarn of a novel feels as though after a minimum of plotting and the occasion assisting sip of whisky and soda the author just typed and typed until the book was done.It opens with the framing device of a man listening to another man's story.
The weather determines when they can fly, the refuelling is arduous work and Ross gets less and less time to sleep.Over-strained, in Greenland and under the influence of the Germanic sleeping pills, Ross dreams.
The merit of Nevil Shute here in An Old Captivity is to show that such an expedition relies not only on courage and determination, but most of all on careful planning, a lot of money, bureaucratic paper chases and endless hard work - checking and rechecking every detail, every bolt and nut that may mean the difference between life and death when the nearest settlement is hundreds of kilometers away.As usual for the author, all these technical details do not overshadow the human interest story , exploring the interplay between the three main characters : the dedicated pilot, the slightly clueless Oxford don and his opinionated daughter.
An Old Captivity is rather hard to pin down, in terms of genre.
It's clumsy in places, too -- the frame story is okay to begin with, but then...
It doesn't match up properly with the rest of the story.
That didn't bother me too much, though.
I got really absorbed in all the concrete details of this book: the plane, Ross' efforts to get ready for the trip, his worries, his sleeplessness...
the slow growing of understanding between him and Alix.
Even the precise geography and the bits taken from sagas and so on.It's slow paced, and there isn't much magic in it, but there was enough to go round for me.
I enjoyed this book more than any I’ve read this year. I don't think have the ability explain why I like the book as much as I do. Perhaps it is Shute himself I like. To date I’ve read six of his books and all have been fantastic. Nevil Shute may simply be my favorite author. Shute writes about the hidden hero that can be found in everyday people. He gives us stories about ordinary men and women facing adversity. For the most part his characters rise to the occasion, but he shows us defeat as well.
It might be the extra effort Donald Ross goes to get the wireless to work, something banal and silly like that, but we know, almost without realising it that Shute is suddenly expanding a fictional context to include the all too likely possibility of future danger, and we realise just how much care is being taken.
In a way it's an experimental sort of book: it takes the long wide arc of a journey from Britain to Canada via Iceland and Greenland, as its background.
Slowly, against the further background of the Icelandic sagas, the tale emerges and, as usual with Nevil Shute, it is not what we are expecting.
Having recently read a series of disappointing, or just more challenging books, picking up another Nevil Shute novel was the reading equivalent of (or ideal compliment to) curling up in a favorite chair with tea and good music - at once calming and invigorating, familiar and new.
This again features his great characters - earnest without being stiff, and good but not prim.
Shute's anti-heroic depiction personalizes the adventure, and makes me feel like I could have been part of it.
That, and the very appealing characters, make for pretty good escapism.
It’s so nice to spend a few days immersed in another decent and kind world created by Nevil Shute!
Ride-along time-travel In A Dream is SF for people who don't want to write SF; I probably shouldn't comment until I've read more Shute, but I get the feeling he thought SF had to have a certain plausible deniability and be separated hygienically by framing narratives in order to be respectable.
Or are we both nuts?', rather than Ross being all 'I had this really weird dream, it felt totally real' and the other two going 'Hmm.
At first you may think it is boring but reading on you're brilliantly captivated in the story of a modern pilot who becomes an illness while everybody depends on him. During his illness he hallucinates he was in a previous life. All in all it makes you wonder...
I really enjoy Nevil Shute's books. Yes, some have dated a bit, but this writers love for his fellow man, his excellent writing, and his perception has always delighted me. This is a paranormal romance in it's way.
His usual competent engineer hero is tasked with organising an archaeologist's air photography mission to Greenland, sponsored by the archaeologist's rich elder brother, and to his dismay accompanied by the archaeologist's daughter.
The planning and implementation of the expedition are lovingly detailed; the year is roughly 1937 (the book was published in 1940, but there is no mention of impending war).And then three quarters of the way through, we have a sudden shift; and our competent engineer hero falls into a coma and dreams of a past life as a Scottish slave among the Viking settlers of Greenland, with the professor's daughter being his lover's reincarnation.

He gets a job with an archeologist, Mr. Lockwood, who wants to investigate the possibility of Celtic settlements on Greenland.
To Ross, that doesn't bode well, but he does need a job and likes the challenge.
In Iceland, Ross begins having sleep problems.
But as the journey progresses, he begins having strange dreams.
Strangely, Alix seems to appear in the dreams as well.
Still, it's quite a good yarn, as are all Nevil Shute tales, albeit somewhat more mystical than most of his works.
Escapist fantasy?
Probably not for anyone, but synopsis is pilot with insomnia gets sent on an expedition to Greenland.
He's taking meds for his insomnia.
He has weird dreams.
Eventually he has difficulty separating the dream from the reality.
He has a beautiful coworker.
Incidentally, his dreams are about the long ago past, and his coworker is also there.
An academic who quizzes him about his dreams recognizes that they are a little too historically accurate given the amount of knowledge the pilot actually has.
Ultimately, the dream is all that is left in the memory of the reader.
I have always been a fan of Neville Shute.
Protagonists are always competent, kind, responsible, technical men with a standard for high ethical and moral conduct.
And, there is always a very off beat twist in the plot that holds you to the end despite all the tedious technical detail he sometimes gets bogs down with.
I give it 5 stars when it probably only warrants 3.5 because I find his books relaxing, romantic as well as fascinating.
Men seems to enjoy them because they always have a technical aspect.
They're my go-to books whenever I really need to get away.
Oh Nevil Shute captivated me decades ago.....this is reminiscent of 'In The Wet'It's dated for sure by the technology, the manners (dressing for dinner!) and the mores but the stories are so well written that it doesn't matter. Neither the stories nor the characters are glamorous but they're all decent, reliable and thoroughly likeable.There's always love and plenty of practical detail in equal measure. After reading one of his books I always feel that I too could moor a sea plane, fly over mountains, adjust my tappets and refuel - all without once cussing
This was a strange combination of the practical and the ethereal. A novel that takes in aero engine maintenance and a haunting dream of ancient exploration. Once again NS's writing is both simple and evocative, the plot interesting from the historical and geographical perspectives, while the characters seem so, well, out of time. One thing that always seems to stand out in his work is a very old fashioned attitude to women. A book that will stay with me, if only trying to work out what the title actually means.
This was an enjoyable story. The language was a bit dated, but I enjoyed the flow of the book in general and the characters were believable and authentic for that time and place. I felt like the story needed an exciting episode, like a crises to get your full attention; especially in the second part of the book to help you feel more connected and excited with the storyline, it was a bit too slow in parts. The dream twist was ok, but slightly predictable. Overall this was a reasonable read that kept you wanted to know the outcome.
At heart, it's a ghost story in the vein of Tales From the Crypt, which I rather enjoy as a genre. But to get to the ghost story you have to read through a hundred some-odd pages of Victorian sensibilities and early 1900's aeronautical mechanics.That said, it is oddly engaging so getting through those early pages is not painful. Still, at the end I found myself wondering if the title was referencing the plot line or the process of reading the book; being captive to it, waiting for something to happen.
Around page 50, the book kicked itself into third and didn't let up for about a hundred pages. Despite that, the ending felt like a letdown. The resolution was imperfect at best and the energy just felt drained about ten pages before the actual finish. Still, a poor ending to a Shute book is only by comparison to his other works. Tracking down a copy is well worth your time and effort, so ...Read it!
Another wonderful book by Nevil Shute! I really enjoy the way he relays a historical account but mixes fiction through it and comes up with a really good read. This book was so unique in the way he told the story of Leif, Haki, and Hekja. The descriptions of the expedition were very well done and made it easy to visualize what air travel was like all those years ago...the difficulties and struggles with fueling and communications that today’s pilots don’t have to deal with.
Great Book!I don't want to give away the plot. Do we love the same person over and over? Can some of us remember more than others? See what you think as you read this wonderful work of fiction that is based on archaeological research.
Fabulous!
Transatlantic soulmates written in stone.
I enjoyed this book. It was interesting learning about seaplanes. There is always an element of mystery to Shute’s stories. I liked the development of Alix’s character.
A very engaging tale about a Greenland expedition in the thirties. Two thirds Indian Jones...and then it gets weird...in a good way. For reasons I will not explain, a must read for Cotuit friends.
He applied for numerous flying jobs with no luck, then contacted a friend named Mr. Clarke at the Guild of Air Pilots about job possibilities indicating that he was getting desperate.
After a couple of weeks, Mr. Clarke informed him of possible employment for an archeology Professor Lockwood at Oxford.
When all was settled, the expedition did get underway as planned with the pilot, the professor, and his daughter.
This is a very entertaining book as are all of Nevil Shute’s novels.
The story here is old-fashioned and predictable, the characters not entirely convincing, and the writing is straightforward rather than brilliant.
So why five stars?To start with, the story is told with precisely the right amount of detail.
A former pilot myself, I think the obstacles and Ross' responses are spot-on for the period, more exciting because they are so realistic.
Whatever eroticism there may have been between Ross and Alix, it can only be guessed at; physical contact is limited to two kisses and some hand holding.
Ross grew up in Scotland with his aunt who was a teacher.
He hears from a friend about a job with Mr. Lockwood at Oxford for a photographic expedition to Greenland.
Lockwood's daughter, Alix, is opposed to her father taking such a dangerous expedition, but finally agrees if she goes with him.
Thus, Ross and Miss Lockwood begin the expedition as enemies.
Ross picks up some sleeping pills in Iceland, which give him a good night's sleep, but he begins to have strange dreams, and after they get to the research site, he doesn't wake up one morning.
This is a good old-fashioned yarn of a story and one of my favorites by Nevil Shute.
Who wouldn't want to fly with an intrepid pilot as he journeys to Greenland, back in the day when such a trip was a costly, dangerous affair?
Who wouldn't want to become caught up in local Native folklore and culture?
However, if readers can immerse themselves in this simple tale, well told, while forgiving the author his contemporary maleness, you too can venture into ancient lands, and be caught up in an Old Captivity that will capture your imagination.
