https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52228.A_Room_of_One_s_Own_Three_Guineas
5 stars for A Room of One’s Own (aka “I Use the English Language Better Than All of You, Deal With It”).
I knew the basic thesis of this essay (that people need private space and personal money to be able to write fiction, and the lack of those two things has historically hindered women writers).
It’s a masterful rhetorical performance, but drawn-out and much drier than the first essay.Essentially, read Three Guineas if you’re a hardcore Woolf fan.
Read A Room of One’s Own if you’re a human with a functioning brain.
Introduction, by Hermione Lee--A Room of One's Own--Three GuineasNotes and References
It's just a matter of fate for me to seek out the words of a respectable writer like Virgina Woolf, and what she could teach me.Divided into six cohesive chapters, A Room of One's Own is where Virginia Woolf imparted a beguiling lesson on the status of women in both the real world and in fiction whilst providing very searing observations regarding their perceived inferiority, and the day-to-day oppression that they had to face throughout the centuries.
Nevertheless, Woolf manged to write something exceptional and remarkable in these two essays and I warmly congratulate her for the insights she accomplished to deliver in her pieces, most notably in A Room of One's Own. I am so excited to read her fiction before the year ends.
3.5 stars.I've been meaning to read something by Virginia Woolf for a long time now, so I put this on my Classics Club list to make sure that I finally DID read something of hers.
I feel like they - especially A Room of One's Own - would benefit from an audiobook reading rather than a physical reading, and that maybe if I'd done that, I wouldn't have struggled as much as I did at times.
That said, there were definitely moments during the course of both pieces where I desperately wanted to high five Virginia Woolf's ghost because she was so on point with her arguments.
Este libro es uno de esos libros necesarios en la vida de toda mujer. No sólo por lo que escribe Woolf sino porque en ella encuentras comprensión, empatía y sobre todo reflejo.
Tampoco las oportunidades, los derechos y las cargas familiares eran las mismas, sino diferentes según el sexo.La negación, y no precisamente por motivos económicos, de algo tan básico y necesario como la educación, la imposibilidad de acceder a una profesión remunerada y la falta de la independencia económica que ello conlleva, la privación de la libertad para expresar opiniones o el derecho a decidir por sí misma en relación a su propia vida son algunos de esos los obstáculos, entre otras cuestiones, que la autora aborda tan maravillosamente bien.El único “pero” que le he encontrado al libro es la traducción de Un cuarto propio que no me ha llegado a convencer, además de contener algún error que llega a modificar el sentido de las frases o dificultaba su comprensión, por lo que no descarto volver a leer la obra en un futuro pero en otra edición.De todas formas este pequeño detalle no le resta mérito al libro por lo que se lleva las cinco estrellitas.
(Should I tell that I was disappointed when I googled Virginia Woolf's images?).As ironic as it may sound, this was my introduction to one of the most widely read feminists of all times.
And just days after that decision, I picked the same, already worn out volume, this time to read A Room of One's Own.Women and fiction.
Women need a room to write, so that they can write without distractions.
Women need freedom, so that they can write.To take a different approach, it is also in simplicity of the argument that power of the book lies.
" A woman must have money and a room her own if she is to write a fiction" - ბრძანა ქალბატონმა ვირჯინიამ თავის ესსეში და ამ ერთი წინადადებით შეიძლება ითქვას გადატრიალებაც კი მოახდინა მოდერნისტულ ლიტერატურაში.თუმცა, ჩემი ბლოგი უფრო მეტად სუბიექტურია და ვეცდები ის გამოცდილება გაგიზიაროთ თუ რამდენად საჭიროა საკუთარი ოთახის, საუთარის სივრცის ქონა, არა მხოლოდ იმისთვის რომ მხატვრული ლიტერატურა შექმნა, არამედ იმისთვისაც რომ გაერკვე საერთოდ ვინ ხარ, რას წარმოადგენ სინამდვილეში ,შენი სახელის, სტატუსის და ეროვნების მიღმა,რა არის შენი ცხოვრების წარმმართველი მთავარი მოტივი, უბრალოდ არსებობ,დღეებს მიათრევ თუ ამ შენს ყოფას კიდევ აქვს რაიმე დამატებითი შრე...
One of them being her discussion on Charlotte Brontë in relation to the 'incandescence' in writing, which is the idea that an author shouldn't allow personal emotions of the time of writing seep into the language being written.
I do not agree that Jane Eyre suffers or is a lesser work compared to that of Jane Austen just because you feel anger and raw emotion scattered throughout the pages.
Another point Woolf makes that I slightly disagree with is the opinion of 'making a poet', however, I do understand that Woolf was a subject of her time.
I can't say I enjoyed it that much; I'm a bit ashamed to say that Woolf's essays are a bit long-winded for my (modern?) taste.
But her message and the historical significance of these two essays made me so glad to have read them.
This is an important book, the critic assumes, because it deals with war.
This is an insignificant book because it deals with the feelings of women in a drawing-room.
A scene in a battle-field is more important than a scene in a shop - everywhere and much more subtly the difference of value persists."
This book contains two of Virginia Woolf’s feminist essays, A Room of One’s Own and Three Guineas.
The former is absolutely brilliant and still relevant today.
I highly recommend it, especially to those who are familiar with classic literature, as there are many references to classic writers and their book characters.
The latter is good as well, but I didn’t find it as thought-provoking.
It’s in a different style, a three-part letter, and it is more about the evils of war.
Overall, it is an excellent feminist essay collection and I LOVE the Vintage Classics edition that my friend, Kaycee, gave to me.
The Shakespeare’s sister imagining was SO perfect & I loved that the essay was dotted with narrative, sarcasm and poetry.Three Guineas was a bit of a slog but that being said, I’ve still dog-eared nearly every page to mark moments of meaning and importance.
Fav Quote: Imaginatively, she is of the highest importance; practically she is completely insignificant.
She pervades poetry from cover to cover; she is all but absent from history…some of the most inspired words, some of the most profound thoughts in literature fall from her lips; in real life she could hardly read, could scarcely spell, and was the property of her husband.
Charming. Insightful. Unpretentious.
Woolf answers these questions in A Room of One's Own and Three Guineas respectively.Published in 1938, Three Guineas is Woolf's response to the rise of fascism and the Spanish Civil War which preludes WWII.How can I spend three guineas in order to help prevent war, philosphically speaking?1.
Women have fought for their rights and freedoms in the private sphere, so we can learn from feminist movements in order to fight against the dictators of fascism who are oppressing freedom in the public sphere.
// only read chapters 2,3 and 4 //
go women
قبل أن أعرف أي شيء عن أبعاد العمل لأني أؤمن جدا بهذه المساحة من الخصوصية والعزلة، هذه مساحة لا غنى عنها!a room of one's ownvirginia woolfهذه الرسالة في الأصل كانت سلسة محاضرات ألقتها فيرجينيا وولف حول المرأة و الكتابة في كليات نسائية في جامعة كيمبرجwomen and fiction.
في أحد الفصول تتخيل لو أنه في القرن الـ 16 مثلا كانت لويليام شيكسبير أخت - جودث- تمتلك ذات المستوى من الموهبة والشخصية لنقل المغامرة، والمصير المختلف جدا الذي تخيلته لها، على فرض أنها انطلقت خلف شغفها بالمسرح كما فعل أخوها.
Later scholarship focusing on Renaissance women poets such as Louise Labe, Veronica Franco, Aemilia Lanyer, Isabella Whitney, Mary Sidney, Mary Wroth et al have uncovered that women certainly did write, circulate and even publish poetry in the sixteenth century, though certainly these processes were never unproblematic.I particularly like the way in which Woolf offers her essay as an example of how to 'do' theory - she states that she doesn't want her listeners/readers to simply read and accept, but to engage actively, to resist, argue back, extend and re-write her arguments.The whole is written in a lively, witty, style making it probably one of the most accessible theoretical texts we have from the modern period.
67)C'est tellement intéressant de lire ces deux essais l'un à la suite de l'autre, & de voir la pensée de Woolf tourner autour d'elle-même, s'activer au-dessus d'une quantité incroyable de coupures de journaux, se contredire un peu, abandonner des batailles pour mieux en reprendre d'autres.
Pourquoi mange-t-on si mal dans les cafétérias des collèges pour femmes?
Mais même si elle entretient une relation trouble avec le féminisme, même si elle n'est pas particulièrement douce avec les écrivaines britanniques qui l'ont précédée (la pauvre Charlotte Brontë se fait ramasser assez injustement, on va se le dire), même si elle est à la fois idéaliste & extrêmement exigeante dans ce qu'elle demande de ses consoeurs, il reste qu'elle identifie des tendances & cerne des enjeux avec une minutie exaltante.
It is utterly fantastic and urges women to get out there and do something, especially in the final pages; to go out and write something if only for the women who never had a chance in hell thanks to their circumstances and the ideas of the time.
I wonder what Woolf would think of the current day.
I enjoyed her criticism, I love her idea that fiction is to be mostly realistic.
Even if you are not a fan of Woolf's fiction do check this out, especially if you are a woman writer or a woman who studies literature.
The first chapter was kind of slow and I had to keep in mind that the essay was written in the 1920s so as not to keep contradicting Woolf in my mind.
I disagreed on a few minor points, for example when she said that anger stands in the way of writing well.
I actually think that anger or any kind of emotion can drive someone to write greatly and very passionately.
Furthermore I disagree with Woolf’s point of view that women can’t learn anything from male writers, but I do agree with her that it may be good to use both the male and female parts of the brain to write.
This was my first read of 2010 because A Room of One's Own is mentioned, referenced or quoted from in almost every other feminist theory book I pick up, and it was starting to drive me around the bend.
The reason it's quoted so much are now clear.
Having struggled in the past with researching statistics to prove a point from poorly kept and haphazardly located records, I am rather in awe of Woolf's work in being able to present and provide references for her estimates of average income and spending on education for Victorian era women.
Virginia Woolf has a special talent. She can let her mind wander around, leading her readers to wherever she is interested in going. When, as a reader, you just start to worry you are going to be lost by her so many and so multi-dimensional thoughts, she brings you back to the main road lightly. I admire her unique talent.
She reaches conclusions about the condition of women which not only make sense but are are backed up by facts.
She talks about the role of men with education in subduing and confining women.
In her second essay (Three Guineas) she discusses what women (with little education and even fewer jobs) can do to prevent war.
One shortcoming in these essays is the Woolf can only explore a certain class of women, the class of educated mens' daughters which she herself belongs to.
Still, these writings give us an understanding of where women stood about 100 years ago, and how much has changed- or hasn't changed- since then.

These two essays, one fictional, one not, are passionate, powerful, and (perhaps unfortunately) still relevant today.
A Room of One's Own was my favourite of the two, though Three Guineas had some really choice moments.
Though it was great to see Virginia Woolf write so passionately about subjects she obviously cared very much about, I found that they went a little too long for me taste, particularly Three Guineas.
I think I could have rated these higher if they had been a little shorter and punchier, but overall I still very much appreciated them.
A Room of One's Own: read the 3rd of January 2016My rating: ⭐⭐⭐⭐/5My Review of A Room of One's Own
2. eg er heilt frelst av /a room of one's own/, men eg er endå ikkje heilt sikker på /three guineas/
Excelente ensayo, bellísimas nociones sobre cómo conquistar autonomía intelectual. Enteramente femenino y desafiante todavía hoy.Recomendado con especial entusiasmo.
90% współczesnego życia intelektualnego można uznać za przypisy do Virginii Woolf.
