https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84903.The_Last_Gentleman
Percy's novels are like non-fiction disguised as fiction, which I think throws a lot of people.
But just like with O'Connor, you can read his books without having a clue about the author's ideas and still love them for the literature they are.
Percy's turns of phrase alone make his stuff worth reading.
Starts out like a quaint, good-ish book, perfect for a Sunday afternoon between moments of American ease; but then, Percy does his ol' sneak-up and catches you off guard with an ending that feels like you have just witnessed something so astoundingly important that you MUST figure it out.
And this surprising, divinely confusing effect is what draws me back to Percy again and again.
Lots of cars carrying people described in perfect detail, usually broken down or shabby though one particularly handsome specimen of an all-American campervan, but the car you choose is the person you is, or at least it comes to reflect you; cars and junkyards, roads and metal, iron against some dried up vegetation, nature and industry juxtaposing all the time so, for example, “ Outside in the still air, yellow as butter, the flat mathematical leaves of the aspen danced a Brownian dance in the sunlight, blown by a still molecular wind….(an) abstract, lustful molecular wind”.
But he does not look at him during the sixty years in between.Which is instructive as far as it goes, except that both Will and his father, and Kitty's sister Val, a nun doing charity work among the Negroes, contradict it.I also liked this evocative physical description (often my favorite part of any narrative):Down flew the Trav-L-Aire into the setting sun, down and out of the last of the ancient and impoverished South of red hills and Cardui signs and God-is-Love crosses.
The experience of driving from New York into the South is well written and at times Percy reminded me of a Southern Saul Bellow -- brilliant, brainy, adept in the use of a straight-ahead narrative style.
The graphic closing pages of this novel are hard to read as Percy can be intensely vivid, which is both wonderful when life is good and tragic when life is painful -- but such is the plight of the last gentleman.
I admired and cared about the gentlemanly character of the engineer struggling to find his way despite his sensitivity and disorientation.
Whether it be Brooklyn or Birmingham I seldom appreciate accounts of banal domesticity, neurosis laden diaries.
I have really made poor choices lately.
** I am however a huge fan of Walker Percy, and though I disliked this, I realize that description might fit 50% of his work.
***This was the one that completes my list of every novel he has written.
I'm aware The Moviegoer should be one I object to, but I love it.
My ultimate WP favorite is The Thanatos Syndrome.
(Oh, correction: I just noted that I have not read Lost In the Cosmos: The Last Self-Help Book) That's a fine thing, it will be my first, last, and only self-help book!
My first Percy but definitely not my last. His words are addictive. Very much interested in how much of the main character is autobiographical, just curious.
Written in 1966, Percy's second novel following the classic "The Moviegoer." Young, confused Southerner, adrift, suffering 60's-style existential angst, a blank slate whose "radar" lets him know what others want him to be. A vehicle for Percy's ideas on philosophy, theology, the South and more. I suffered existential angst trying to get through it.
Percy knows great writing when he sees it, and his 1966 novel,"The Last Gentleman," features some great writing.Like other Percy novels ("The Second Coming" and "The Thanatos Syndrome" come to mind), "The Last Gentleman" is not easy stuff.
It features a cast of largely unlikable characters, including its protagonist.
Key characters include the bizarre members of a Gothic Southern clan, the world's worst psychiatrist and a white filmmaker driving around the South pretending to be black.
You sense Percy is playing games with the reader and you don't really mind.Percy is an often profound philosopher.
I'm going to be EXTREMELY generous and give a book I couldn't take past page 108 (where the sex scene in Central Park begins, or maybe failed sex scene, I give no shits) two stars.
I wish I had a plantation and a check every month, however modest.Unfortunately, the book is- rife with annoying generalist musings about the nature of life, the South, mental illness, blah, blah, blah;- populated by characters who all feel flat and artificial and one suspects all have the same palette of mental illnesses;- clearly going nowhere fast.
Like all of Percy's novels, this is both a fascinating story and an exploration of life through the insights of Christian existentialists like Kierkegaard and Dostoyevsky.
Some of the concepts Percy explores in this novel are elucidated in Lost in the Cosmos and his other nonfiction works, which the reader may desire to read as well in order to further enjoy Percy's fiction.
In particular, I found his exploration of semiotics in relation to transcendence in Lost in the Cosmos to provide a great deal of insight into the sections of Sutter's notebook read by Barrett--notes which, in turn, illuminate the entire novel and all of its characters.
My favorite of Walker Percy's novels.
Williston Bibb Barrett, the protagonist, although that is a somewhat inappropriate label for him, wanders through the novel reacting to other people in a highly mannered way, initiating very little, but his very self-effacement presents a tabula rasa for those around him to fill in.Somewhere in this book I remember seeing the description of manners as existing so that "nobody would ever not know what to do." I have looked for the line and not found it lately, but I feel it accurately describes Billy Barrett's survival methods.
I slogged through the book and the story never gripped me.
However, I was always conscious of the undeniable skill of the author and wanted to find out how he ended the story.
He had something very tangible to say that was developing in a seemingly disconnected, but very unique way.
I may come back and write a review after I mull things over, because this is a remarkable book with a powerful ending.
I can't say I enjoyed the book overall, but I was impressed with the way it was put together and have to say, Walker Percy was a very gifted writer indeed.
Wow! Just finished this wonderful journey of a book. Barrett is a wonderful surreal character living on the edge of his own life. He holds in his soul the confusion and disorientation that comes from living old in a modern world. Incredible. Percy is a master of both dialogue and the stream of consciousness. This last gentleman is a tragic but enviable character. For those living in the South, or familiar with this strange place facing the Gulf, Percy's references will truly hit home. The author is a master of his native domain. Looking forward to the sequel.
This book, based in small part on Dostoevsky's The Idiot, is, is, is everything. The final pages will make you tremble or cry, or just appreciate how we kiss and kick around despair.
Walker Percy's second novel also picaresque Southern gentleman's look at the world going on around him as he tries to fit in while making sense.
There is an interesting story here unfolding and the characters keep building the gothic column unto death's presence giving in to life's resistant pull.
Also some "Scent of a Woman" hints here/there cathartic moments life/death struggle.
But it goes on, there's a sequel come after two other novels between (have read them both not reviewed) "The Second Coming" - will wait to finish that before a review capturing thoughts from both.
It concerns a young man transplanted from the South living in a YMCA apartment working the night shift in a basement.
Perfect - young man stuck in the labrynth.
This I can work with.
But then he meets some other characters and goes on a road trip down South and the whole book falls apart.
It's the South with a capital S - Walker Percy is one of those southern authors you read in college - so of course he tries to make everything symbolic and allegorical.
So altogether and fairly pretentious and turgid read.
It was strange; the author made some interesting choices, like calling his narrator "the engineer" all the time, instead of by his name.
This was odd, because all the characters called him by his name, but for the first part of the book he doesn't interact with anyone, so you don't learn his name until 50 pages in or so.
(p.s. the narrator shared my surname.) There's a ton of philosophy in here, no surprise from Percy, and overall the story is mostly compelling and the characters are somewhat interesting.
Barrett's doting relationship with Vaught is compelling.I liked The Moviegoer a lot more than this, but I'll keep reading Percy's stuff.
I liked this book the first time I read it ten years ago, but it stuck me much more profoundly upon this recent re-reading.
Percy tackles many issues in this book, all of which ultimately relate to how meaning and thus life itself can be possible in a demystified and inverted modern world.
The path forward Percy suggests requires a merging of the immanent with the transcendent, In Percy's world this is what everyone is searching for, haltingly, wrongly even absurdly.
But where this merging is found in its true and ultimate form there is yet hope.
The book follows a young man who somewhat lacks an identity and constantly suffers from bouts of amnesia.
The book often feels as aimless as its protagonist and can be somewhat difficult to follow but about halfway through I thought it became easier to follow (or perhaps I became more interested and therefore tried harder to follow it).
I related to the protagonist's confusion, lack of ambition, and lack of definite identity.
I found the other characters odd yet fascinating.
Its an odd book that I am glad I read and will probably read again.
An Alabaman with a telescope and nervous fits is taken in by a rich, faltering Southern family.
Reading it made me feel like a better, more wholesome person; like I should sit down with a glass of milk and eat whatever kind of homemade sandwiches Southerners favor.
It's a very warm novel.
I liked it against my will.
I think it's a good 100 pages too long, maybe.
The silence was disjunct.
Each passing second was packaged in cottony silence.
Even in the Southern wilderness there is ever the sense of someone close by, watching from the woods.
Here one was not watched.
There were some interesting trains of thought and ideas and some lovely description.
Interesting that the main character suffers from mental issues and goes into spurts of amnesia and fugue states, but the way this is written is too difficult, cumbersome, annoying for the reader to follow.
I did not relate to nor care for any of the characters.
Or rather I did not feel emotionally invested in their journeys.
The journey of the main character, the engineer, felt random.
This plotless book teaches me the importance of including a plot in my fiction.
Just went back through this a third time in prep to lead our book club through it at our next meeting. It just gets better and better with age. All of Percy's work feels more or less prophetic, as humanity has still not fully come to terms with the dislocation of the individualized, technological society birthed by WWII. The "New South", the old South, the sexual revolution, cultural Christianity, and so much more comes under his withering eye.
I read this at 17, but found that, ten years later, I couldn't remember it at all except for the opening scene in Central Park. I haven't changed that much in ten years. I just re-read it and really wanted to like it, took my time with it, trying to understand the metaphors and trying to picture the scenes in my mind - but I just didn't get much out of it. Maybe I'm not philosophical enough...I do like the descriptions of Southern culture as a New Yorker with some Southern experience...
This is my 2nd try at Walker Percy, the first being The Moviegoer, which won the 1962 National Book Award for Fiction and was on TIME's list of the 100 best English language novels since 1923, and both have been 1 stars for me. As with The Moviegoer, the book is mostly existential nonsense. I can handle no plot if the dialogue is profound enough, but here it's not. I should have stopped with The Moviegoer.
I don't know what it is about Walker Percy--I always seem to think I'm going to like his books more than I do. This one in particular felt like I needed to devote more time to it and try to finish it faster but it's pretty long to demand that. And I found it rather slow-going. Some parts were funny, sad, and interesting but others seemed really bizarre and unconnected--like the excerpts from Sutter's casebook. I was left not fully understanding the novel but maybe that's to be expected.
Read the whole thing for the reward of the last 20 pages --a true and honest depiction of the moments just prior to death after a prolonged illness. What will you do with your life? What will you do with your death? There's a lot to think on here: memory, identity, recognizing who we are and our place in the world, home and not-home. Challenging, but worthwhile.
Some amusing parts but over all a ridiculous book to me. I am sorry I took the time to read it.
He is the only one among the Vaughts who manages to maintain a middle ground -- The father embodies the worst of the old South combined with the worst of the new; Sutter rebels against his upbringing with a rationality that is deeply spiritual, Val with a spirituality that is deeply rational, Kitty by yoyoing back and forth and Jamie by dying.It is interesting to see how Will is the logical next step beyond Binx Bolling of "The Moviegoer," who finds enlightenment through vagueness; Will instead finds enlightenment through mental illness.There is a lot of interesting philosophical discussion in this book, with some of the most interesting material coming from Sutter, but I couldn't help feeling that we aren't supposed to take any of it seriously.
The crux of the story is how Will is embraced by the whole family, from the crazy rich patriarch of a car sales empire, the almost nun older sister, the sex obsessed, suicidal, defrocked physician, the young coed Kitty, and the sun ( as well as son ) they all circle around, Jamie.
Jamie is sick, dying in fact, and in a period of time which as a reader seems entirely too quickly both he and his family embrace Will Barrett as both his friend, caregiver, and companion.
A young white Southerner, a dropout from Princeton caught in New York in the wrong place and time, serendipitously falls in with a classic Southern family and is launched on a journey with no destination the hero can see, but one he may hope for.
In his heart, he is caught between drifting through life afloat on its meaninglessness or choosing a conventional and respectable life with wife, wealth and community status.
Not considered his best book, the work is nevertheless an excellent story and one that reflects well the time of its writing.
