https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/600335.The_Dollmaker
I had been trying to remember the details of this book and the title, I read it years ago and was excited because the setting was in Detroit ( I live just outside Detroit) After a few years of trying to remember the name of this book, someone just reviewed it on my feed!!I need to read this again but it is definitely a 5 star read!!!
One of my favorite novels.This book still haunts me. For regional writers: a fine use of dialect, without creating or living up to stereotypical renderings of characters from Appalachia.For students of American literature: a rich, meaty example of the literary movement of natural determinism, ala Ellen Glasgow.For those with Appalachian roots: It'll make you miss yer kin somethin fierce.
My Appalachian Writers professor mentioned that she knew of a few colleagues who were forming a club for people who could only read The Dollmaker once.
I might be in that club.
This book is long, but so rich and so well-written that I would love to read it again, especially from a spiritual/biblical perspective.
On the other hand, there is such tragedy that this book takes an emotional commitment, one I can't imagine allowing myself to make again any time soon.
This book is bigger than its genre and I would hate for someone to miss it because they don't appreciate "Appalachian" literature.
I am sure my encouraging description is making people want to read this, but seriously, it was one of those books that I couldn't put down.
By rights, it should be too heavy-handed to enjoy, but the writing was breathtaking and it really succeeds in making you feel like you are right there, suffering through Detroit winters and lock-outs and war department telegrams and debt and agony.Grade: A++Recommended: To people who might enjoy wallowing in a dismal family saga, people who like lots of domestic detail about homefront experiences, and especially to anyone interested in the rural emigration sparked by WWII, which I always feel you don't hear nearly enough about.
I read this book when I was 10 or 11 and cried all the way through it. I was mad at my mother for letting me read it because it was so sad, but later in life realized this book helped to shape me into the person I became. I have looked for this book off and on over the last 40 plus years and am very glad to see it is still in print and people are reading it. This truly was one of the best lessons about life my mother taught me.
This was a book I read in college over 30 years ago and I still remember it. It was well written, but you may need to take anti depressants after you are done.
I rated this a 5 because I read it at least 15 years ago & it still remains one of my favorite books.
A TV movie was made in the 80's based on it (Jane Fonda starred) -- did not come close to doing the book justice.
An Appalachian woman, along with her husband and children, moves to Detroit where the family hopes to find a better life.
The setting is just after WWII when industry was in full swing.
Main character carves wooden dolls, thus the title.
Have recommended to book groups & always get positive feedback.
Copyright 1960's.

I just saw this book on GR and remembered how very much I loved it. I read it soo many years ago-but as soon as I saw Gertie's name(main character) scenes from the book immediately popped into my head. The 5*s I give this book are in a different category than the 5*s I give to many other books.I don't know if this book will stand the test of time -but I do know that when I read the book it totally knocked me out!!
came in the mail yesterday. it is really a good book to read. a must read for everyone
Woven throughout this book is Gertie's one constant, her whittling of dolls and her whittling of a large piece of cherry wood into a replica of Judas or Jesus; she can't decide.There are many other women and families whose paths cross Gertie's and her family and each of them have a story to tell of sacrifice, prejudice and dreams of a life beyond what they experience presently.This breathtaking, gut wrenching, heartbreaking and inspiring family saga is a "must read" is you ask me.
I'm generally disappointed with film adaptations, so go figure on this one!The Doll Maker is a reading experience I'll be savoring for many years to come.
First published in 1954, the story centers on Gertie, a strong, capable woman who moves with her husband and children to Detroit so he can work in the war industry.
As a gripping story of what it was like to move from Appalachia to a big, crowded city, the book has few peers.
Read it to get a feel for what it was like to work in the factories of Detroit in the city's heyday, to understand what ordinary folk were up against, and to appreciate the strength of the women who had to stand by their menfolk.
I believe Joyce Carol Oates recommended this book either in the forward or in a review.
The author introduces the reader to the world of rural Kentucky during a time of deep poverty and despair.
It's a tough read as some awful stuff happens but, at the same time, it's a book you won't be able to put down.
There was one moment when I was literally sobbing so hard that I had to stop reading.
It's fiction, but the book paints a true portrait of life for families who had to struggle just to put food on the table.
A remarkable book and beautifully written.
The unforgettable and tragic story of an Appalachian family lured to Detroit by the promise of high wages. Living in the heart of the industrialized north during WW II, Gertie, the strong and good wife and mother, shows determination and grace as she struggles to adjust while her dreams of self-sufficiency and personal freedoms shrink and perish. Her family is forced into dependence on the machine of industrialized society which relentlessly destroys their independence and dignity. It's a classic of American 'regional' literature. (The Dollmaker was a runner-up for the 1955 National Book Award (won by Faulkner with The Fable).)
It is the beginning of the U.S. participation in the Second World War. All the able-bodied men are being taken into the army or going north to work in the high paying factories producing war goods.The story takes you into the life of one extended family as they struggle to live off the land, the only way they know to live.I cannot tell you how many times I have started to read this book.
The Nevels family of five children moves from the Appalachian mountains of Kentucky to join the father Clovis who has gotten a job in a Detroit war factory.
It's been years since I read this book but I can say this about it without a doubt...It's a masterpiece! I cannot encourage you enough to read this book.
“Gertie for the first time really looked at the rows of little shed-like buildings, their low roofs covered with snow, the walls of some strange grey-green stuff that seemed neither brick, wood, nor stone.
Men like Clovis, who have been turned away at the enlistment office, feel the tug to go to Detroit, where the lure of big dollars for factory work drives them from their homes.
We see clearly the Kentucky countryside, barely life-giving, but yet stunning and loving in a way that families sometimes are.
See more of my book reviews on my blog, Literary FlitsI know it's still only the very beginning of March, but I feel certain The Dollmaker will turn out to be my Book Of The Month.
I wouldn't be surprised if it turned out to be my Book Of The Year too.
I was completely immersed in every page of Arnow's writing and it is rare that a book grips me to this extent throughout, especially one of over 600 pages.
I am sure The Dollmaker will remain in my thoughts for weeks and possibly months to come.
First published in 1954, this Dreiseresque novel chronicles the movement of a family from from rural Kentucky to Detroit during World War II.
The husband (Clotis Nevels) works in a factory; his wife Gertie takes in laundry and occasionally sells hand-whittled crucifixes and dolls; the children amuse themselves in the backyards and alleys.
Although there are occasional positive social interactions in the family's little community of government-supported housing, the dominant themes are friction, prejudice, deprivation, and loss.
The novel opens with a gripping and memorable chapter, but frequently bogs down over 600 pages of stark and minute social realism before finally reaching a symbolically appropriate conclusion.
It is a fine writer who can make you love being miserable.
It's towards the end of WWII and strong self reliant Gertie Nevels has finally scrimped and saved up enough over 15 years to help buy her family their own farm in the peaceful Kentucky hills, freeing them from sharecropping and allowing them at last to have something to call their own.
a superb book of strength and glowing richness by NYTBR, was first written in 1954 and has a place on the best loved bookshelves of many.
Another of my "most favorite" books and one that I do believe everyone will love. It is the type of book where the characters stick in your memory for long after the words have been read. I would go to bed in the evening thinking of the characters and wondering what they were doing ... they are that real! I have read this book several times and it is fresh each time.
Mostly the main character, Gertie, and one of her daughters, Cassie, along with Cassie’s friend, Callie Lou. Some of the other characters and plot lines faded a bit in my mind over the years, but I would sometimes think of these two: of Gertie’s brave determination and Cassie’s fanciful imagination.
When Gertie is thinking of her Kentucky home and how things looked and felt and smelled ...
many of these descriptions I read over more than once.The story is a hard one, and often very sad, but still uplifting in a way, and I am so happy to own a copy of this book.
The description of the Kentucky countryside was beautiful but I gave up when the family moves to the tenements of Detroit.
Totally depressing and slow moving.Ok, this book was good enough that it actually made me wonder what finally happened so, even though I put it down in exasperation in March, I picked it up again a few days ago and finished it in about 3 days.
The same theme of beautiful nature compared to ugly city life is just repeated and repeated ad nauseum.
Grandma had all her books, and frequently spoke admiringly of her cousin's writings.
I inherited the books when my grandparents passed and finally sat down to read The Dollmaker this spring.
In the story of Gertie and her family, I think I caught a glimpse of my family's life in the 40s.
This was a powerful portrait of a woman and her family caught in a great cultural shift.
I was carried along with Gertie in her journey from the hills to Detroit and felt as if I saw it through her eyes.
I'm looking forward to reading some of Harriet's other books.
I had attempted years ago to read this book and was I determined to read it the second time around.
It is a very long book and quite depressing at times but this time I didn't allow it to affect me as it did years ago.
This was a hard book for me to read because I am a country girl who adores the outdoors and nature and I simply died inside reading how Gertie let her dreams slip through her hands.
I think this is a book that I would like to re-read and study what the author was trying to express.
Sometimes a book touches you deeply, and The Dollmaker touched my soul. For some reason I cannot explain, I related to the main character in this story and found this experience satisfying, although certainly not comfortable as the story evoked tears more than once. I wish the author, Harriette Arnow, were still alive so I could let her know how her story affected me. Imagery popped into my head all through the story, almost as though I were watching a movie on a big screen. This is a story of determination, fortitude, survival and humanity. Superb.
(One of the best scenes in the book comes early, when the women of the settlement gather at the general store-cum-post office to await the mail, delivered by ancient Uncle Ansel and his donkey; Arnow beautifully but quietly conveys the crippling anxiety of a community composed almost entirely now of women, some of whom have already lost sons or husbands, others of whom are desperately praying that today isn’t the day they lose theirs.) When Clovis has to leave for a few days for his army fitness assessment, she’s not too worried—surely the army won’t take a farmer?—but then he disappears for weeks, and when she next hears from him, he’s moved to Detroit and found work in a factory.
She and her husband have 5 healthy children, and Gertie does most of the farming, while her husband Clovis hauls coal and “tinkers,” meaning that he is good with machinery and makes a few dollars here and there repairing cars and farm equipment for neighbors in their rural settlement in the mountains.
Gertie and her family thrive in their traditional, self-sustaining rural community.
Finally, and then I’ll shut up about this amazing book, it was interesting to get a portrayal of the discontents of that mid-20th-century era when we imagine, in our nostalgia, that everyone in America was united.
Breathtaking, Moving, Honest, Unforgettable & Compelling! An Amazing Read! I Loved It!
