https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33290408-god-bless-you-mr-rosewater
The trademark dark humour, and the interconnected stories within the main story, that I had enjoyed in Breakfast of Champions, were taken to a higher level in "God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater", where the small sideshows added new angles to the overarching message of the general plot.Kurt Vonnegut is one of those authors that get better the more you read them, so I strongly recommend all of you, my dear friends, to get started!
One of the most starkly telling scenes for me is near the end when Elliot has taken up tennis and lost all the weight, and it is as though he has awakened from a long sleep.First published in 1965, Vonnegut shares the story of Eliot Rosewater, an heir to a rich estate who is restless and looks to find his way amid various philanthropic misadventures, helping the poor, becoming a volunteer firefighter, etc.
As a story, Vonnegut is his usual hilarious self, letting his character as narrator drop several times and revealing personal asides.
It is an arrangement that would have driven Roman lawyers insane, mainly because they equated control and benefit: if you got the use of something, you owned it.
As Vonnegut says about his main characters, "Almost all were beneficiaries of boodles and laws that had nothing to do with wisdom or work." They treat themselves as merely extensions of the corporation and as such useless, that is as making only decisions of control not benefit.The separation of corporate control and benefit opens the way for what Roman lawyers feared most: fraud.
The Rosewater Foundation has more money than God. When Eliot Rosewater, the current head, starts making people nervous with all his talk of redistributing wealth, Norman Mushari decides to put Eliot's sanity to test in court and reaches out to the Rhode Island branch of the Rosewater family.Kurt Vonnegut takes on capitalism and socialism in God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater, the fourth book of his I've read.
In the end, Eliot manages to stick it to the man and all is as right with the world as it can be in a Kurt Vonnegut book.So it goes.
My first attempt at reading his work - Cat's Cradle resulted in me staring at the page, mentally shouting at Kurt Vonnegut, "What are you even TALKING about?" Reading Slaughter-House Five went slightly better, and by the time I read Mr. Rosewater, I was completely at peace with Vonnegut's "maybe this all has deep meaning and maybe I'm just pulling it out of my ass" style.
Also, I was happy to see that the infamous Kilgore Trout, my favorite recurring Vonnegut character, made another appearance in the story of Mr. Rosewater.
There's only one rule that I know of, babies—God damn it, you've got to be kind."― Kurt Vonnegut, God Bless You, Mr. RosewaterI've only got two big rules with my two babies (one boy, one girl): # 1 be happy, # 2 be kind.
'God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater' happens to be a fairly straight-forward novel about money and charity.
Vonnegut's novel (also known as Pearls before Swine) is about the Rosewater family and how they invest their efforts into a foundation as a means of keeping the government from taxing their money.
Rude, but Not ConstruedA satire on American society, capitalism, and religious and sexual hypocrisy, Vonnegut’s ensemble includes  Eliot Rosewater  (a less unfortunate Jay Gatsby/F. Scott Fitzgerald who lives long enough to be charitable with his family’s trust funds), his father  Senator Lister Rosewater  (a male incarnation of Ayn Rand, whose "Atlas Shrugged" was published eight years before and "The Virtue of Selfishness" the year before this novel) and science fiction novelist  Kilgore Trout
Eliot Rosewater
Scott Fitzgerald who lives long enough to be charitable with his family’s trust funds), his father 
Also featured en masse are the desperate "useless" poor ("the pearls") and the rapacious "useful" rich ("the swine").
Eliot believes, 
When complimented on his political platform, Kilgore Trout returns serve with 
"Thank you."
Inspired, Eliot gives, in a way that can be regarded as either Christian or Socialist – to each according to their needs.
"All persons, living and dead, are purely coincidental, and should not be construed."
Thank you.SOUNDTRACK:The Beatles - "Piggies"http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sXdKlp...
And so begins the tale...Though Vonnegut's book was published in 1965, it seems almost prophetic when it describes the American class system.Thus did a handful of rapacious citizens come to control all that was worth controlling...
And they saw that praise was reserved henceforth for those who devised means of getting paid enormously for committing crimes against which no laws had been passed.If you're a member of the 1%, this book will only angry up your blood with its "socialist" messages, and you should probably stick with Ayn Rand.
At the outside, babies, you've got about a hundred years here.
تصویر، کاملا، تصویری از آمریکاست. از ثروتهای عجیب و غریب در چند سانتیمتری فقرهای عجیبتر. اما یکی از رزواترها دلش به جای پول و ادامه دادن راهِ ثروتاندوزی که بعد از نسلها، کار چندان سختی هم نیست، چیزهای دیگری میخواهد. اما قضیه مگر به همین سادگیست؟ حتماً خلی چیزی شده. داستان، روایتهای گوناگون از این دیوانگیست. شخصیتها، تند و بیمهابا وارد میشوند. من کمی ترسیدم ولی شما نترسید؛ به اندازهی کافی یادتان میمانند.یادداشتی برای ناشر: انگار بالاجبار بدترین طراح جلد دنیا را دارید.
تصویر، کاملا، تصویری از آمریکاست. از ثروت‌های عجیب و غریب در چند سانتی‌متری فقرهای عجیب‌تر. اما یکی از رزواترها دلش به جای پول و ادامه دادن راهِ ثروت‌اندوزی که بعد از نسل‌ها، کار چندان سختی هم نیست، چیزهای دیگری می‌خواهد. اما قضیه مگر به همین سادگی‌ست؟ حتماً خلی چیزی شده. داستان، روایت‌های گوناگون از این دیوانگی‌ست. شخصیت‌ها، تند و بی‌مهابا وارد می‌شوند. من کمی ترسیدم ولی شما نترسید؛ به اندازه‌ی کافی یادتان می‌مانند.یادداشتی برای ناشر: انگار بالاجبار بدترین طراح جلد دنیا را دارید.
This is “a really good science-fiction book ... about money” (23), even though it’s not really a science-fiction book. The science-fiction is supplied by Kilgore Trout, who tells the same story as his creator. In Oh Say Can You Smell? a dictator solves the problem of odors by eliminating noses. In God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater, the wealthy solve the problem of poverty by eliminating conscience. And if that doesn’t work, they can borrow a page from 2BRO2B and build purple-roofed Ethical Suicide Parlors to solve the problem of “useless human beings” (269).
The sentiments behind this book are pretty clear.
It's hard to believe this is nearly half a century old, because it still feels stingingly relevant in a world of austerity, Tea Party Republicanism and millionaire presidential candidates.The plot (such as it is) flops around sloppily, but that's Vonnegut for you.There's more to Eliot Rosewater here than the character as presented in Slaughterhouse Five.
In that other book, Rosewater comes across as a cynic, supplying meaningless platitudes.
My favorite bits are the two pornographic novels-within-the-novel, Garvey Ulm's Get With Child a Mandrake Root and Kilgore Trout's Venus on the Half-Shell, both marvelously suggested by illustrative paragraphs. Philip José Farmer was tasteless enough actually to write the second book. I suppose we can at least be glad that he didn't get around to writing the first one as well.
Best book ever.
The concept of charity and wealth redistribution is only part of this process as a side-effect.It was hard to not think of that department, and of the rather upsetting current political climate, as I was reading “God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater”.In this book, Vonnegut tells the story of Eliot Rosewater, a millionaire and trustee of a large fortune, who develops a *gasp* social conscience and wants to give away his money to poor people; this leads a lawyer working for his corporation to think he is mentally insane.
I don't seem to understand why some people classify Vonnegut as a humorist. I find his books to be intensely sobering and the kind of thing that a lot of people should read.
Some well timed comment that pretty much wrote him off as a hack, and I recall being almost hurt by it, seeing as how Vonnegut wrote so much stuff I loved as a teen.And I guess that's maybe the rub.
I loved Vonnegut as a teen.
I read like five of his books.
I don't recall this construction in his other novels, but I wasn't as sensitive to syntax I was then, was instead a reader for story.Man, even typing one out feels like rubbing someone else's feces into my keyboard.
3.5 bumped down to 3 I loved the social commentary in God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater and, similar to my experience with Cat's Cradle, found it to be a provocative read. Still, other than agreeing with a number of Vonnegut's insights and enjoying his humor, I didn't find myself the least bit invested in the characters.Perhaps this is because Vonnegut's writing style is less exemplary story telling and more witty satire that reads like a cautionary tale/parable. So while his thoughts and ideas are
I loved the social commentary in God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater and, similar to my experience with Cat's Cradle, found it to be a provocative read.
Still, other than agreeing with a number of Vonnegut's insights and enjoying his humor, I didn't find myself the least bit invested in the characters.Perhaps this is because Vonnegut's writing style is less exemplary story telling and more witty satire that reads like a cautionary tale/parable.
So while his thoughts and ideas are worthwhile, this book left me wanting something more.
Still worthwhile, just not something to get excited over.Will continue to work my way through his writings with Slaugtherhouse-Five next on the list.
2nd time reading this book: Vonnegut’s satire of American aristocracy is as poignant today as I imagine it would’ve been when he wrote it in 1965, perhaps unsurprisingly so, as the type of ‘old money’ ideology he paints in this novel is still the same kind of ‘old money’ ideology that exists today.Written in the earlier half of his catalog, God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater occasionally drags its feet when considering Vonnegut’s oeuvre in its totality - but that’s only in comparing him against himself.
In general, what I would call a ‘mediocre’ Vonnegut book is still better than 90% of everything else in the library.
"Am plâns când am scris-o. Atât de amuzantă mi s-a părut. Şi atât de amuzant mi se pare totul."Aceste cuvinte, scrise pe un bilet de un personaj total insignifiant al cărţii, îmi par cheia întregii opere a lui Vonnegut (cel puţin a celei citite de mine până acum). Nicăieri n-am mai întâlnit durerea exprimată într-un mod atât de amuzant. Parcă ai urmări un clovn care se ţine de giumbuşlucuri şi farse în timp ce lacrimile îi curg şiroaie pe obraji. Ridi, pagliaccio...
What I love about Vonnegut is that he is so cynical about his own opinions, and that his characters are so often pitiable, likable, and irritating all at once.
I love that the protagonist (Eliot Rosewater) is a kind of lovable, asexual loser hippie idealist who thinks love will cure capitalism, etc...and you can start to feel like, "hey man...maybe it can..." while you never have any illusions about how he's a loser hippie idealist who won't actually change much in the long run, and probably neither will you.
It's well worth it for the moments of hilariously cynical brilliance.My favorite character is Eliot Rosewater's father, the irritable and repressed Senator Rosewater.
It was so much fun to read another book by Vonnegut. I think that's really all I need to say.It was fun, thought-provoking, and made me laugh.
Hilarious.
Bonus: one can read it and laugh without the horrified guilt that hangs over the reading of Mother Night because it is only about the bad stuff we do to poor people and basically nice white people are all in agreement that it's okay to live better at the expense of poor people.I would love to pull bits of this out to show you how funny it is.
The scene where Eliot gives money to the poet so that the poet can tell the truth and the poet discovers he has no truth to tell.
Rest here:http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...
Çok eğlendim, çok sevdim. Burunları iptal eden diktatörün hikayesine uzun süredir gülmediğim kadar güldüm, devamlı aklıma gelip kıkırdatıyor :) Nice okunmayı bekleyen Vonnegut kitaplarına, şerefe!
While short and exceedingly easy to read, the book feels like an epic narrative, since it sweeps from the very rich to the very poor, from the battlefields of the Civil War to the modern sailing playgrounds of the very rich.
Eliot Rosewater is an ideal American hero,and a fascinating foil to Billy Pilgrim in SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE.
By the same token, Fred Rosewater of Rhode Island, Eliot's distant cousin, is rendered as gentle and long-suffering, while his wife Caroline is a one-dimensional shrew.
Still, this is the one Vonnegut book that really has the feel of a fully accomplished novel, a genuine American classic.

Why was I unconsciously imagining Donald Trump's idiotic self-contented smile every time senator Rosewater was mentioned in the book? Must be the zeitgeist.I am amazed, how fresh and on time this whole Vonnegut's rant on riches feels today. But I'm not surprised. It's Vonnegut after all. Always leaves you laughing and sad. Because... humans?Half star off - the ending felt a bit forced and whatever-ed. Other than that - excellent.
Lawyers and Money2 November 2012 There are a number of Vonnegut books that I wish to read again, but this is not one of them. It is not because it is a bad book, or badly written, but that it is somewhat to what I expect from him. I somehow enjoy the irony of how a science-fiction writer casts his main characters as failed science-fiction writers (despite him not being one, though I suspect that when he started writing this would have been the case). However, Vonnegut's genius is not that he is
The definition of a lawyer pretty much defines this book, 'a lawyer is a person who takes money from one person, gives it to another, and takes a bit for himself', though the reality is that they don't take a bit, they take a lot.
Another aspect of this book is the idea that in a capitalist society, the idea of one of the wealthy being a philanthropist and working an ordinary job (in this case as a fireman) is an aberration to the point that the antagonist of the story (a lawyer) goes out of his way to declare that this person is insane.
The poor have no money, their jobs are replaced by machines, and so they have no purpose in the world anymore.
The rich have money, don't need to work, and therefore have no purpose in the world either.
Eliot discovers this several times, when he buys something for a person, only for that person to squander it.Vonnegut shows that the rich have had handouts of their own, primarily though inheritance, and have become the very definition of "useless" they despise.Only a few have actually done well under the free market system, and they are still slaving away to get by.It's rich verses poor in this disjointed, meandering tale of human beings who struggle against uselessness.
Vonnegut has been one of my favorite authors since I read Cat’s Cradle (Stop what you are doing.
Although I’ve been slowly working my way through his entire catalogue, it’s been a few years since I’ve read him.
Vonnegut uses Eliot Rosewater to discuss capitalism, inherited wealth, greed, poverty, automation, charity and compassion.
In an America where the top 1% have almost the same amount of wealth as the bottom 90% and more and more workers are being laid off due to automation, God Bless You Mr. Rosewater may be even more relevant than when it was originally published in 1965.
So, after reading the six early Vonnegut novels, Slaughterhouse-Five and Cat's Cradle are the standouts - entirely original and deeply moving.
Mother Night (which is a separate tightly focused tragedy, distinct from his other early novels) and Sirens of Titan are also classics in their own right.
I thought Breakfast of Champions very funny but ultimately too over-the-top crazy even for me.Summary:Sirens of Titan (1959): 5 starsMother Night (1961): 4 starsCat's Cradle (1963): 5 starsGod Bless You, Mr. Rosewater (1965): 3 starsSlaughterhouse-Five (1969): 5 starsBreakfast of Champions (1973): 3 starsHail to Kurt Vonnegut!
