https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175510.My_Utmost_for_His_Highest
I read it when I can in the evening. This is not a typical mushy coffee table devotional, not at all. In fact I usually have to read the short entries three times to grasp its meaning. There is so much to chew on with practically every word written. And it is not the easy stuff either- no fluffy emotions. This is testing of faith! No more fluffy good feelings but true inspiration for a radical life of faith.
As a result of reading MUFHH, I was introduced to the life and times of Oswald Chambers and his amazing ministry and his amazing and selfless stenographer wife, Biddy.
Biddy is the one who is responsible for the compilation and publication of MUFHH and all of Chambers over fifty published works.I will never be finished reading MUFHH because I am always dipping into it and every time I do, I always find a fresh insight about what it means to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ.
It is deliverance in trouble, which is very different." (August 2) And I'll say, "Yes, and Amen." Then, two paragraphs later, he'll say, "God does not give us overcoming life; He gives us life as we over come." And I'll say, "What?
Unfortunately, what this means is that he takes the focus off of God and puts it on self, which is not what I'm looking for in a devotional.Oswald says, "God does not give us overcoming life; He gives us life as we overcome.
This devotional has put things into perspective for me so many days in a row.
Oswald has a way of wording things that really gets deep down inside of you!I have given two copies of this devotional away as gifts and I am about to give my third....it's a great gift idea, because it's really neat to be able to discuss what this means to another individual seeking christ...Here is just one small taste of one cool exert:Nov 30"There is only one relationship that matters and that is your relationship to our LORD.
Let everything else go, but maintain that at all costs, and GOD will fulfill his purpose for your life.
After finishing this year-long devotional, the depth of my faith has tremendously deepened. I have not yet found an equal to this material. This is worth going through again for the second, third, even fourth time!
" Stand fast therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free .
" Believe this and that " ; a spirtually-minded person will demand that you align your life with the standards of Jesus.
We are called to present liberty for the conscience of others, not to bring them liberty for their thoughts and opinions.
the liberty that comes from realizing the absolute control and authority of Jesus Christ.
the liberty of Jesus at work in our conscience enabling us to do what is right.Don't get impatient with others.
Going throught this in a small group setting. I recommend this method so that more meat is in the lessons. There is much there but the way the general points are made may take some Scripture out of context or focus on one point that is not really the purpose.We are on 14 Jan...once a week study.
I hope that any reader of this review finds that helpful.Oswald Chambers is a man who definitely had an ongoing encounter with God. His thoughts tap into every aspect of the experience of following Christ and having communion with the Spirit of God. His words are at times an incredibly profound comfort to a broken heart.
I found that questions I was struggling with that week were addressed so many times in the entries I read, and I saw the lightbulb go on inside my mind.I would recommend this devotional to every believer in Jesus, and even to people who seek to know God in a deep way.
The wisdom of Oswald Chambers' famed My Utmost for His Highest is spread out over 365 daily readings.
Written in 1935, the language is a bit archaic, but at the same time, the old-fashioned words and wordings raises this book out of the ordinary into the extraordinary.
I've read parts of this book over the years, but never cover-to-cover, on a daily basis throughout the entire year.
Oswald pulls no punches, and there were definitely times when I felt a bit bruised.
Oswald rips through any pretensions to complacency, and while it's an uncomfortable journey at times, it's definitely a necessary one.
The basis of faith is always Jesus Christ Himself.- These daily readings have been selected from various sources; chiefly from the lectures given at the Bible Training College, Clapham, during the years 1911-1915; then from October 1915 to November 1917, from talks given night by night in the YMCA, Hut, Zeitoun, Egypt.
In November 1917, Oswald Chambers entered into God's presence.- A large portion of the readings have been chosen from the talks given during the Devotional Hour at the College; an hour which for many of the students marked an epoch in their life with God.
I am thankful that we read this together or I probably would have quit before we finished, and there were some gems in those last months.
We started reading the book in January and finished it December 9th.
If you don't own the book and are interested you can read each of the devotionals one day at a time at this website...
http://utmost.org/Here are a couple little quotes to show you some of the gems this book has.“In the midst of the awfulness, a touch comes and you know it is the right hand of Jesus Christ.
Chambers consistently and insistently reminds the reader of the powerful reality of the Redemption, and he bases all of what he writes on this one fundamental truth.
The result of this is daily writings on the Christian walk that are permeated with power and hope.
My Utmost came recommended to me by everyone who had ever read it.
One individual life may be of priceless value to God’s purposes, and yours may be that life.”This is a powerful, foundational, encouraging, challenging tour de force of a book that would benefit the life of every Christian.
Each sentence can be contemplated on forever, and each day's devotional is more than enough not only to grow in knowledge and grace, but to daily turn our affections to our blessed Lord Jesus Christ, the author of our faith.I read Oswald every day in the morning, before I begin my day; each day Oswald reminds me the importance of picking up the cross, and the sacrifice that we must endure for the sake of gaining Christ.
I plan to read this devotional throughout the rest of my life, and can't wait for the day that I can give it to my children.-Brent McCulley
Rarely do I come across a daily devotional which offers the wisdom and insight that My Utmost provides.
Coming from an author who died early into the 20th century, the journal entries seem to jump off the pages in overall relevance and knowledge that is current to today's worldly affairs.
Oswald Chambers was gifted with extracting the essence of biblical principles and condensing them into potent, thought-provoking, and life-changing devotions.
Do your spiritual life a favor and get started today, I guarantee you'll be surprised as to the reoccurring pattern that you stumble across exactly what you needed for that day.
This is the best devotional book I have ever read.
Along with my bible it is going to remain a staple in my devotions from here on out.
It is so well written and so real...guiding one to giving their all to God. I read it through, but I will keep it out to read one devotion each day along with my Bible reading, which is how I believe it is mean to be used.
When it comes to devotionals, I always return to this one and have read through it several times. Oswald Chambers doesn't pussyfoot around and let you remain "average." For him, you must be DEVOTED to Christ and to Christ alone._______________________________Another year with Oswald Chambers' classic edition of his best known work. It's still worthy of 5 stars. During 2018, I'll be reading a copy of the updated version which I found in a thrift store.
Pretty much a must read for every Christian at some stage in their lives! It's a full one year devo, which you can go through time and time again! I would definitely recommend it for quiet time with the Lord! <3
3.5 starsChambers has some very good thoughts most of the time that challenge me to surrender more fully to the Lord.There were several instances where I felt his opinion was too strong, especially when he expressed his opinion as Biblical fact (i.e., "God does not say --, He says --").
Classic devotional from Oswald Chambers. Every Christian should read this. It has been a true blessing during my devotional time with the Lord.
No review I write will do justice for this book filled with spiritual insights, practical life applications, and sound biblical analysis.
This book is meant to be read as a devotional - one entry for every day of the year.
I didn't read it like that, so I have been working through this book for over four-and-a-half years.
Some days I would read multiple entries in a row.
Sometimes I would go months without picking up this book.
I don't think it matters how you read "My Utmost for His Highest" because there is so much good material inside."Do we appreciate the miraculous salvation of Jesus Christ enough to be our utmost for His highest - our best for His glory?"
My mom bought this somewhere, but she has never really read it because she already has a couple of devotionals that she loves (Springs in the Valley & Streams in the Desert) - so I just went ahead and stole it from her!
I've tried reading Streams in the Desert before, and although that one has always been close to my mom's heart, I've just never felt like it was what I was looking for, on a personal level.
What a wonderful time and this was but one of the jewels found during this experience.
It is the all-time "best-seller" among Christian devotionals.
And the story of how Chambers' widow was called and perfectly placed and prepared to publish these powerful daily devotions is illuminating of God's presence in all things.
Beyond the Bible, this book and C.S. Lewis "Mere Christianity" have touched my spirit more than others.
When read thoughtfully, combined with prayer, and Bible nearby, this wonderful book will "work miracles." Not really, rather it will only lead readers to God's eternal truths and always fresh promises.
This year on top of reading the entire Bible I will be using this book as my devotional.
1/7/16: Yesterday I overslept and had to rush out the door and skipped the reading- thinking I'd make sure to pick it up the second I got home.
By the time I got home I was tired, dinner had to be made, dishes needed to be done, and January 6th's reading had completely slipped my mind.
Wouldn't you know it but yesterday's reading was on the importance of spending time speaking to, worshiping, and allowing him to teach us.
Compiled by his wife, (he burned all of his personal writings) this collection of sermons and talks from her verbatim short-hand notes are very inspirational.The profound depth of these writings goes beyond philosophies developed by a man.
These are the writings of one who has experienced true, transforming relationship with the Creator of All in every area of life.Its practicality is almost a hindrance in understanding it to me.
I read it to find some deep spiritual meaning, and find that what I believed to be complicated and hard to understand may be just as simple as lack of obedience in a particular area.
a must read for those who want more than just the God of Today.
This past year has been one of the most I've grown, primarily because of family, and this devotional has been a valuable contributor speaking wisdom each day."The most impossible thing to you is that you should be so identified with the Lord that there is nothing of the old life left.
He will do it if you ask Him. But we have to come to the place where we believe Him to be almighty.
Faith is not in what He says but in Himself; if we only look at what He says we will never believe.
When we see Jesus, He does the impossible thing as naturally as breathing."
A great friend and missionary once recommended this work to me when I was but a teenager.
I had never heard of it before, but picked it up with great vigor.
Chambers has a unique insight into the heart of man and applies Scripture to the hearts and motives of his readers.
This is not a book for those who would like to read a little and then continue in a life unchanged by the Word.
No, this is a book worthy of those who search the Scriptures in order to walk worthy of their Lord.

I read this devotional every morning for 7 years, until it was so familiar that I didn't need to read certain days because they had been imprinted on me.
I still find myself quoting or referring to MUFHH, and have notes in the margins of my first bible of MUFHH with a date when I would make connections between a truth highlighted by Oswald and what I learned in Scripture.
What a blessing - it really shaped my theology and grounded me in the Lord as a new believer.
It was the perfect length read for on the toilet in the morning, and to focus my mind on things above right away!
I have read My Utmost for His Highest almost daily for over 25 years. God still speaks to me through this powerful devotional. I prefer the beauty of the older english version. I've even had my original copy recovered!! A must for every person hungry to grow in Christ. But you must have a sensitive spiritual heart because the devotionals will touch every tender spot!
I re-read this devotional every few years, and 2016 was the perfect time to revisit. I love this book. It's rich and layered and filled with wisdom. Each devotional is short, but the depth of knowledge and insight is profound.
