https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2087365.The_Savoy_Cocktail_Book
There's a lot of charm in this relic of Prohibition era cocktail culture, but as a recipe book the Savoy should not be taken seriously. Weed-out redundant recipes with alternate names, and you might lose 40% of this book. Weed-out recipes with trivial proportional differences, and you'll lose another 40%. Weed-out noxious, candy-sweet concoctions, and you'll loose another 10%. That final 10% is worth reading, but many will be familiar and most of the rest will rely on ingredients unavailable for the past half-century.
Got this as a gift for javaczuk, who has an endless fascination in the art of mixed drinks, especially those in earlier days. We are working our way through this and the other books I got for him for our anniversary, at a steady, but healthy rate. Since bartending is a part of the manuscript he is writing, it's all research. God help my liver.(This seems to be his go-to one when he has questions.)
I can appreciate this book for its history, often wacky cocktails (to our time) & a rather well-written wine section. However, having a reference book without an index or way to look up a drink other than by name yields a major issue. Also, numerous cocktails are the same ingredients in ever-so-slightly different proportions and possibly a different garnish; different cocktails these do not make.Time for a drink!
The old, original classic cocktail book. 1st home to iconic cocktails such as the French 75, Blood & Sand, and many others. The art deco illustrations aren't bad either.

No, I didn't read every word of every recipe, but I read the name of each and noted its main ingredient. And the prose elements of this guidebook are stellar, particularly in the wine section. The portion quoted from Colette's "The Lucky Hour of Great Wines" is great reading. And the happy ending of the book is ultimately fitting to its subject. Bottoms up!
What a fun book! You can get lost in it as you imagine all the high rollers, millionaires, and adventurers who tossed back countless One Exciting Nights, Trilbys, and Morning Glory Fizzes. A must for novelists recreating the twenties through the fifties, the Golden Age of cocktails. Alcoholics should avoid it. The temptation to try every single one will kill you to death.
The quintessential cocktail handbook. Amazingly entertaining and funny, even more so impressive as it was first published in 1930. Worth a read and a stack of page markers for making notes of cocktails to try!
Not enough punch or life in this book. I wish every cocktail came with a few sentences of background stories or suggestions for possible modifications even if that meant there were fewer cocktails. Still looking for the perfect cocktail book.
come over and we'll try to mix some cocktails... but it may be hard to find all the ingredients... it's okay, we'll improvise! :)the graphics in the book are amazing (from a graphic designer's point of view).
Probably not a book I'd actually sit down and read in one shot, but more of a cookbook for the bar. I tried one cocktail featuring sherry that was not so good. Hopefully there's more gems in there, it IS a classic after all..
Endless variety here. Some better than others, but work through it a bit, and you'll find what you like.
I'm looking for the 1930 edition to buy, but am thinking that unless I am willing to pay close to $1k, I'm out of luck. I better just go with a later edition.
The best cocktail book I have ever read. If you need to learn classic cocktails, you cannot be without the book.
Harry Craddock - American, New Yorker, Londoner (because of the Prohibition) - was the father of prohibition cocktails. This book is really a reference book for classic cocktails. No pictures. Recipes are alphabetical so it works well as a reference book. Not an inspiring cocktail but great to have in case you want to look at any classic cocktail recipe.
