https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34534.The_Amazing_Maurice_and_His_Educated_Rodents
For children?Maybe, but there are some dark issues going on and dealt with from the master himself.Terry Pratchett’s first Discworld “story” designating it as written for children (followed by the wonderful Tiffany Aching sub-series) but I would submit this is YA territory, no warm fuzzy Disney moments here.First of all, if there was a film this reminded me of it would be the 1995 Chris Noonan film Babe.
Maurice the cat and his band of smart RATS have teamed up with Keith the teenage piper to swindle some Uberwald villages.As in all of Pratchett’s books, though, there is a lot going on besides talking rats and some dubiously naïve villagers.
И осъзнали, че трябва да има правила (нещо, което дори на нас, хората, често ни убягва.
Това, което Морис не знае, е, че човек (или котка) винаги си намира майстора.
Той казва, че тази книга е за плъхове, които са интелигентни, но в нея се среща и още по-фантастичната идея, че човешките същества може би също са способни да мислят.
Не бе, хлапе, тук долу… И понеже някои приказки свършват, но старите – не, трябва да си в крак с ритъма на музиката, ако искаш да си начело на парада“.(view spoiler)[А всъщност Морис принадлежи също толкова на гризачите, колкото и те са негови.
Maurice, a talking cat, leads a group of talking mice and a stupid-looking kid into a town called Bad Blintz looking for one last score with their pied piper scam.
Maurice and the rats are good characters, as is Keith, the aforementioned stupid-looking kid.
Pratchett took the classic story of the pied piper and Discworld-ed it up with questions of philosophy, destiny, and leadership.
Being a Discworld novel, things didn't quite end up all hunky-dory at the end but it was still a good ending.Pratchett crafted a good young adult novel here.
Pratchett at his best.This is his first YA Discworld book although I think that label is put more for marketing purposes. This is one of his darker works and like all good Discworld book there is so much going on beneath the surface. Behind there is story of clash of generations, finding one identity, spirituality and religion and Pratchett's realistic (or pessimistic if you are an optimist ) view of humanity and much more and his signiture cynical humor . 5 stars aren't enoug, that is why we have favorites shelf.
Standardno dobar Pračet (ovo zapravo mogu da napišem za svaku njegovu knjigu, osim za one s Rinsvindom, koje zbog nečeg ne podnosim) koji je iz nepoznatih razloga marketinški plasiran kao dečja knjiga. Nekad imam utisak da je za marketinško plasiranje nečega kao dečjeg dovoljno da nema eksplicitnog seksa i ružnih reči.Mala beleška: mnogo mi se sviđa kako aktuelna prevoditeljka Pračeta, Nevena Andrić, rešava probleme lokalno obojenog kolokvijalnog govora. Nisu sva rešenja idealna i da čitam uporedo s originalom verovatno bih tu i tamo gunđala, ali npr. "razumeš se ti kao Meri u kriv kantar"... *grokće od smeha*
Following the resounding success of my Locus Quest, I faced a dilemma: which reading list to follow it up with? Variety is the spice of life, so I’ve decided to diversify and pursue six different lists simultaneously. This book falls into my FINISHING THE SERIES! list.I loves me a good series! But I'm terrible for starting a new series before finishing my last - so this reading list is all about trying to close out those series I've got on the go.I remember being given a copy of  Reaper Man  wh
When Death took on the prototype mechanical harvester, my first major author-crush began and it's never let-up.In my teenage years I re-read my favourite Discworld books so many times that their spines cracked and pages fell out.
- had I read it back when I was young, we might have gelled better, but as it was I felt like I was standing outside the story-circle, imagining how a youngster would enjoy it, rather than being truly gripped myself.I've only got a couple more Discworld books I've not read, both part of the Tiffany Aching y-a series.
Re-Read this recently while traveling. It's interesting to see Pratchett's first run at writing something officially YA. It's a good read. Smart. Funny. And pleasantly stand-alone. It's easy to see why he won the Carnegie award for it. But in my opinion, it doesn't hold a candle to his later YA books that feature Tiffany Aching: Wee Free Men, Hat Full of Sky, etc. The Wee Free Menpat
Ever see a cat feed a human?
Case proven.Maurice and his savvy, talking rodents arrive in town, ready once again to pull the old "Pied Piper" scheme.
The citizens waste no time hiring Keith to play his magic flute, rats follow him out of the village, everybody splits the money and VOILA!
This is a town that REALLY HATES RATS!
There are full-time Rat Catchers paying 50 cents a tail and traps and poisons and a mysterious voice that gets inside your head and Malicia, a book-loving girl who won't stop talking.Will this be the end of the line for Maurice and his band of merry critters?
Another author I was slow in finding, Pratchett has a wicked and beautifully twisted sense of humor. I would call this book a recrafting of the Pied Piper story, but that really doesn't even begin to describe it. All the characters, human or otherwise, are wonderfully drawn, and the story is well worth your time. Sheesh, this guy is prolific, too. I need to get back to work now!
Υπέροχο βιβλίο από έναν ευφάνταστο παραμυθά! Καταιγιστική περιπέτεια εμπνευσμένη από το Μαγικό Αυλό, με πολλούς ποντικούς που κατευθύνει ένας ραδιούργος γάτος (everybody wants to be a cat... παραραμ!!! καλά, μπορεί να θέλει να γίνει και ένα εξελιγμένο τρωκτικό βέβαια...)Έχει και ηθικό μήνυμα στο τέλος!!Δεν προτείνεται σε όσους δεν αρέσουν οι ποντικο-μονομαχίες...
What did they care if humans stuck flags and paper umbrellas in every little thing?
The rat had as much right to saffron as stupid Lugini did.The rodents in Terry Prachett's Maurice and his Educated Rodents are - D'oh!
The AMAZING Maurice and his Educated Rodents- anthropomorphized.
I don't really care that they are rats.
No stupid Lugini tried to force rules on them.I'm not sure what was up with the less interesting kid people of the story.
I KNOW Pratchett can do better than this.
Enough about the stupid humans.I don't know if anyone reading this will relate to this or not.
Ew. In any case, the disembodied voice business just didn’t jive with me and felt out of place in this story.Also, I got fuddled with this book in the middle section, trying to figure out whether it’s really meant to be a children’s story or a weird children’s-story-for-adults thing.
It feels more authentic than the middle bits and pokes a bit of fun at authority, tourism and government, so all’s well that ends well.Here’s my advice- go read everything Terry Pratchett has ever written, starting with Good Omens and then blasting through Discworld like it’s your job.
Overdrive has informed me that I listened to the entirety of this.
I want to experience the story as a character.
But Pratchett always does this (to the tune of Row Your Boat):Tell, tell, tell, the tale,tell the fricking tale.If you want to be shown,you can go to Hale.Yes, one minute you are a star whistling through the cosmos, the next, a cat in the alley.
Not to mention a cast of a thousand fools, every frickin' time.Instead of a main character who will do anything to achieve a goal, we usually have a lunkhead who rolls around in the mud until something happens.
This is Terry Pratchett's first YA Discworld novel and as to be expected it is a lot of fun.It's based on the Pied Piper story with Maurice the talking cat, a band of talking rats (they all ate something strange at the dump) and a stupid looking kid who plays the flute.
They go from village to village scamming the villagers into paying for the piper to rid the town of rats who are running amok, widdling on the cheese and swimming in the cream.
This story starts with the troop arriving at a strange village where nary a rat is seen and two resident rat catchers are up to something very bad....
I have read this book at least 15 times, I swear!
Which is amazing, because when I got it, I didn't even expect for me to like it that much.
My favorite characters were, Amazing Maurice, Peaches, stupid looking kid/Keith, Darktan, Dangerous Beans, and Sardines.
It was an amazing retelling.
I also don't really like the Pied Piper story, but this was amazing.
I HAVE READ THIS BOOK SO MANY TIMES THAT I CAN LITERALLY QUOTE SCENES!
Yes, I love it that much.
And yes, I have read it that many times.
YAH!I would recommend this book to kids ages 9 and up.
The Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents is the first young adult Discworld book.
It was a short book, and a cute story, but I thought it was pretty substantial in terms of both plot and messages.
The plot was certainly more substantial than many of his adult Discworld books.
Maurice is, like most cats, opportunistic.
The story begins as they approach a new town where they plan to execute their scam.
I particularly liked Maurice, of course!
Even though this may seem like a weird comparison to anybody who has read both books, I kept having flashbacks to Watership Down.
12/9/08 first read: I find it amazing how many important concepts Terry Pratchett manages to pack into this little 278 page book!7/22/13: Reread. Love the way the rats develop their civilization: thinking, writing, teaching, learning, religion, protecting their future, and that of those weaker than themselves. Even hints of suffrage for females. Best of all is Darktan (and others) learning the responsibilities of leadership. As always with Pratchett, simple and fun--but deep down so very very wise.Also: I really need to reread Watership Down. Wish I hadn't lost my copy somewhere. Argh!
Not ideal for very young children, those prone to nightmares, or those who don't like rats...For adult fans, it's a pleasant return to some elements of Pratchett's earlier writing (particularly the Bromeliad), with all the polish and sophistication of his later work.
anyway, it's still enjoyable for adults, but I can see why marketers might think it would work better with younger readers.
Irritating, precocious children are probably the target audience here...Anyway, a proper but still rather short review up on my blog (if the darn link works this time...)
This is one of my younger sister's favorite books of all time, but sadly I did not love it as much as she does.
It just wasn't my type of book and I did not find it amazing, more like very average.
(But not completely terrible).My biggest problem was that I was bored a lot.
I did like Maurice and the rats, but I hated Malicia.
SHE WAS SO ANNOYING.
Too bad she didn't die or something.
I think that certain people will like/love this book but it was not for me and I wasn't impressed with it.
This is a 'young adult' novel?
I think Terry must have gotten fed up with the run-of-the-mill children's books and decided to do a sort of parody of them, one where the characters constantly make references to the fact that real life is not like 'Mr. Bunnsy Has an Adventure'.This is definitely a novel that teens can digest, but there are some parts that are even more grim and depressing than many of Pratchett's 'adult' books.
I am reading the Discworld series in order of publication, and I was dreading having to get through a 'young adult' novel to be complete, but this didn't break my momentum in the least.
The Amazing Pratchett and His Gleeful Renditions"Humans, eh? Think they're lords of creation. Not like us cats. We know we are. Ever see a cat feed a human? Case proven.""'If you don't turn your life into a story, you just become a part of someone else's story.' 'And what if your story doesn't work?' 'You keep changing it until you find one that does.'"
3.5 out of 5Very metafictive, smart, even wise, and funny. A delightful read!Also, Stephen Briggs's audiobook narration is brilliant :)
The first 2/5 was a little boring, or maybe it was so because I had to read it in really small chunks because I was travelling a lot over the past three days.
It got deep, complicated, with an unexpected plot twist, and once again Sir Terry taught us that both the greatest sin and beauty of man is humanity.
Because, as usual, it was humans who couldn't get it right, and cats and rats who definitely could and did.
And at the end of the day, it's only important that someone gets it right and fixes the mess, even if they're small and shouldn't be able to talk.
Ok so I have a confession to make which is a little embarrassing really.
My being 34 years of age, and this is the first Terry Pratchett book I have read.
Phew, even if I did have to borrow it.I did like this book, a story of Maurice, a talking cat, and lots of rats, some good rats and some not so good rats.
This is well written, with some good characters, but I did have trouble deciding when the book was set.
I think that was a brilliant introductory book, and does make me want to read more.
I recently reread this book and by "reread" I mean I listened to the audiobook, which is usually what I mean when I say reread (As a side note, Stephen Briggs is a great reader and I was pleasantly surprised to find that he used the same voice for Dark Tan as he does for Sam Vimes).
the person who has to face down the horrors is Sam Vimes.
In The Amazing Maurice, the heroes are stray animals and a couple of kids.
Older now, I found that I quite liked The Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents.
Been looking forward to this one, the first YA Discworld novel, and probably the best despite not offering the publisher's the chance to print money by turning in to a standalone YA series - that would come later of course.
By riffing on the Pied Piper legend/fairy tale Pratchett is playing it safe, using the readers prior knowledge to introduce his own sense of playful storytelling and humour, as well as allowing himself to softly broach his pet subjects of fate vs free will, self-determination, communism vs capitalism, the comfort and absurdity of religion and the foibles of humanity in general.
Pretty classic Discworld, even if the edges are softened or a younger audience.
Che dire, sono rimasta molto sorpresa.
E' un libro godibilissimo, a tratti molto profondo, a tratti particolarmente ironico.
Certo, i momenti divertenti non mancano, ma sono rimasta colpita soprattutto da questi pensieri che, attraverso la bocca di Fagiolino, Pesche, Abbronzante, Sardine, e tutti i Mutanti, raggiungono chi legge e rimangono nella testa, a far arrovellare il cervello.L'inizio non mi ha coinvolto particolarmente, ma più si va avanti, più la storia prende: è uno sviluppo veloce, che segue molto bene il filo della trama.Nel complesso, un libro che mi ha stupita e che mi è piaciuto molto.
2003 Dec 282006 Apr 092009 Jul 192011 June 27Magically smart cat and rats and a reasonably clever boy. Delightful.***Point to keep in mind for anyone else choosing to read this aloud: the way Pratchett writes, it's not a case of "climax and done." There is a lot going on and it takes a long while to resolve all the different threads. Maurice was a big hit, as was Malicia, and Sardines, the tap-dancing rat.***2016 July 26a little sad, and some seriously creepy.personal copy
The twenty-eighth and first young adult entry of Terry Pratchett’s Discworld series, The Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents finds the residents—new and old, human and nonhuman—town of Bad Blintz figuring out the fine line between real life and a story.
The aim to bring the same Pratchett humor that adults love to a younger audience is on target.A mixed troupe of “rat piper” con-artists arrive just outside the town of Bad Blintz lead by a streetwise tomcat, who a clan of talking rats and a stupid-looking kid named Keith on the streets of Ankh-Morpork.
All works pretty well until the rats start questioning their morality, clever girls catch wise, and they hit a village with a con already running that is taking both money and food from the trusting people there.
Pratchett is charming stuff for the most part, but sometimes the forcefulness of the winking and nudging in his Discworld books proper can get a bit tiresome; I suffered none of that with this addition.
I might actually recommend this book over any of the others I have read to start someone into his writing and Discworld.
