https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3863861-just-the-sexiest-man-alive
Which he is unable to make, canceling at the last minute.So she reschedules.And he no call/no shows.Having cleared her days for him--TWICE--Taylor is PISSED.And when she sees an entertainment news segment interviewing him in VEGAS, she understandably loses her mind.From there it just gets more fun.I have a couple of minor issues with the OTT-ness of how Hollywood was represented, but maybe that's just my ignorance speaking, and overall, JUST THE SEXIEST MAN ALIVE was the brain candy I needed.
Is there any woman alive who hasn’t dreamed of landing the absolute sexiest Hollywood star?
In “Just the Sexiest Man Alive”, Julie James spins a tale of that dream come true.
He’s smoking hot, he’s been voted the sexiest man alive THREE times running, and he seriously needs an attitude adjustment.Taylor is our heroine.
She’s the star up-and-coming lawyer at a big Chicago firm who has been brought out to Los Angeles to try a $30 million lawsuit.
Heck, I wanna BE Taylor in my next life because I think I’ve missed my chance in this one!“Just the Sexiest Man Alive” is a true romance.
But every once in a while, I like to clear my palate and read something that I know I'm going to enjoy.Which brings us to this little gem.Taylor and Jason.sighIt shouldn't work for me.
And I sure as hell don't like to read romance novels that don't have any sex scenes in them!And yet...Somehow this story makes me smile.
Highly Recommended for fans of the light and fluffy stuff!Original review 2011This was a little slice of Chick-Lit heaven!
“You had me at Shit Happens.” What a lovely read!Oh my God, this book knocked my socks off! I didn’t think it would be this good! If I had known, I would have read it sooner. It was such a fun read that I couldn’t help but turn the pages non-stop. I can’t believe I finished it in one night! Yes, you read that right—one night. And I think that says a lot about how much I enjoyed this one.This is a story of a larger-than-life Hollywood actor, Jason Andrews, and a sexual harassment attorney, Taylo
And I think that says a lot about how much I enjoyed this one.This is a story of a larger-than-life Hollywood actor, Jason Andrews, and a sexual harassment attorney, Taylor Donovan.Taylor was on loan from Chicago for the big harassment case in Los Angeles.
While she was in the middle of preparing for a trial, she was asked to coach the biggest star in Hollywood, Jason Andrews, in his new role as a lawyer in the upcoming film.
And at this point, she was beyond angry with him.Later, Jason tried to reschedule the meeting but Taylor turned him down flat.
She wants nothing to do with him believing he’s too much trouble, too much famous and with a too sordid past.
Characters Development:  Jason was sweet and sexy, and although some may say he was to full of himself, it’s true, but he did that in such a funny way that was impossible not to like him.
Taylor was a strong heroine but her stubbornness made me hard for me to like her more.
If it wasn’t for her, half of the frustration in this book didn’t even exist.
(hide spoiler)]Love Triangle:  (view spoiler)[Well, for a (short) moment you can almost say that there is one.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating:  (view spoiler)[No.
They're made up the whole book for me, Taylor Donovan and Jason Andrews *drools*.
A Normal Girl and a Super-hot-handsome-sexy-richy-whatever-guy.*cliché plot, I know* lol!An Associate and a Hollywood Superstar.
She is NOT one of them.The book might be cliché, man..
I love Taylor, she is such a smart, sassy, feity girl.
The way she cope with Jason is great!
Love the way he infuriate Taylor and vice versa, it made me lol a lot!
Sarcasm is everwhere!
and I found myself *giggle* with Jason and Taylor throughout the book.
Their sarcasm.
such a great read for me.
There are some amazing turns every now and then on her books that make you unable to stop reading.
More than anything this was a very funny read and made me feel great in a time I needed a break because I had been working too much, so I must thank this amazing author for this book and recommend it.
I hope you all enjoy it as much as I did.This is how I would order Julie James' books right now:1-Just the Sexiest Man Alive2-Practice Makes Perfect3-Something About You* I still have to read A Lot Like Love
you would want to throw something at him,including yourself(well that part is exclusively for those who belong to the feminine gender).Taylor-the never loses a single case attorney-successful,smart,stunning,strong -was a little bit too self-assured,serious and certainly thought a lot.She had her fair share of ego and acted a bit too immature at certain points.The story was quite shallow at many parts with no real depth to it.Few stupid parts dragged on and a few good parts ended in a blur before it could be savoured.Now ,well, my greatest surprise -even after all these IMPERFECTIONS,I actually liked this book.This book because of its imperfections,was by no means beautiful, but it is soooo ADORABLE and CUTE.The characters ,especially Jason, at certain parts surprised me with his sweetness and capacity to love.And to be very fair the ending stole my heart away---“—and so I was thinking that maybe I should start my own law firm.”With this having been declared, they both fell silent.
This was a re-read.
I'm sorry, I have to drop some stars.
I must have read this a couple of years back when all I was reading was straight romance, chick-lit even.
My reading tastes have changed and progressed over the years and, while I enjoyed the story, there is no way it is a five star read.
I think that is what I gave it back in the day.This author is still and auto-buy for me.
At least there is bit of mystery and suspense in them Ah, well!
Never mind.Thought Jason was a bit shallow ...
and his "come to Jesus" moment a bit implausible.
Of course, there was plenty of the author's trademark witty banter and the inevitable love/hate relationship that I've come to expect but Jason Andrews never really impressed me.The story is about a Chicago lawyer, Taylor Donovan, who is sent to work with a Law firm in Los Angeles and then ends up getting roped into working with Hollywood's hottest actor - Jason Andrews.
Jason is working on a part for his latest film where he will starring as a lawyer and wants Taylor's help in order to perfect the role.
3.5 Cute and funny!Ok, maybe this book doesn't really deserve 4 stars, but I've been unlucky with books lately so I'm just happy to find a pretty good one.The characters were really funny and sweet and yes, the story was predictable, but it was really well written. It was one of those hard-to-put-down books.It's definitely worth a try if you're looking for a light, sweet, funny read.
As always, with a Julie James book, I am filled with nothing but squees and rainbows upon finishing.
They come rare these days, especially if you’re looking for a fresh and frolicking book that manages to deliver from beginning to end.I loved the feel and the style of it.
It’s obvious the author used to write screenplays, the whole thing had an almost movie-like feel, for me the characters and the story came alive even quicker and the book as a whole was a big more "tangible".I absolutely adored the characters.
Because, when he finally allowed the true Jason to shine through the VIP veneer, that’s the moment Taylor fell in love with him.
I thought I outgrew these types of books, but no.
I loved both the H/H.
The way Jason thinks is hilarious, because for being 38 years old, he's still a kid.
I love her, especially during her cross-examinations.
The pre-trial thing was so fun to read.
Taylor is really tough and holds her ground against Jason quite skillfully.
The dynamics between them was very enjoyable, though quite cliche.
Somehow, cliche is not always a bad thing.Super awesome, worth a read and I want to buy this.
I read Practice makes Perfect by Julie James and honestly, I liked this one better.
The audios are both comfort listens, goos for going back to when I feel I need a perk0-up.Interestingly, I do not like Karen White narrating non-Julie James books.
She sounded odd in the serious romantic suspense because she was still speaking with that slight lilt to her voice and using the same cadence she does with Julie James' book.
While I found Taylor's personality rather contrived, Jason Andrews, the said sexiest male in this book, was too much of a jerk to be a romance hero, even one in a romantic comedy.
With the recent release of A Lot Like Love, I figured maybe it was time to jump on The Julie James Train.
Just the Sexiest Man Alive is one of the best debut books that I have ever read.
I hated the guy on principle and because Taylor was punishing Jason for Daniel's mistakes, so I was kind of hoping he would make at least a brief appearance aside from the flowers and the infamous card.Despite The Daniel Thing, I definitely thought this was a great book and I completely anticipate anything from Julie James in the future and, frankly, she has become an auto-buy.Favorite Quotes:"You know, if you're trying to mark your territory, you could've just peed on me before I came over here and saved us both a lot of time!"On the other end, Jason burst out laughing.
Taylor Donavan is an up and coming star attorney in a prestigious Chicago law firm.
Jason Andrews is a Hollywood superstar who has been voted the Sexiest Man Alive, three years running.Taylor has been sent to LA to try a $30 million law suit involving the EEOC.
She must work with actor Jason Andrews to help him prepare for his upcoming roll in a legal thriller.The heroine, Taylor Donavan is the star of this novel, with everyone else (hero included) having very little existence.
As it turns out I hate books about actors.
Hell, I can say that I actually hate actors in real life.
The story was boring, unoriginal, tasteless and uneventful.
So many whys!I’m not going to give it one star though.
I can wholeheartedly say that I’m not impressed.
I would like more character depth, a more interesting story and better humor.
I’m nice.
I’m giving you my reasons for calling it names.I guess this is where me and Ms. James books part.
Don’t let the door hit you in the ass they say.
Kiss my ass I say.
I only have one thing to say :
Well, this was a fun read!There were so many things I didn't like about this book you would think I didn't even enjoy reading it.
"Women should be treated like a film scripts: kicked to the curb after an hour if they don't hold your interest." How did Ms. James make him likable is beyond me.
He was very loyal to the people he cared about and overall I really liked him.
I actually cheered her for kissing the OM, bc of the stunt the H pulled to make the h jealous.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, it was a really entertaining hate-love romance with great chemistry.
:) Of course, I wouldn't want a steady diet of these books -- my mind was screaming for a description of naked body parts and some kind (any kind, please??) of thrusting by the end.
In retrospect I'm thinking the only reason this story actually works is because there's no sex in it.
The heroine, Taylor, was great, and I thought Jason was actually a pretty realistic portrayal of a spoiled movie star.
A complete prick in the beginning, beginning to come down off his pedestal by the end.A fun way to spend a couple of hours, pretending you're a high-powered LA attorney hanging out with the Sexiest Man Alive.
Iskreno, mogla bih vrištati kao mala zacopana curica koliko mi je super ova knjiga bila :D Uživala sam od samoga početka pa sve do kraja i letjela kroz nju jer me konstantno držala u napetosti i željom za dalje!Već sad znam kako postajem prava obožavateljica Julie James.
Veliki sam fan poštenih prepirki i prepucavanja, a ovdje ga ima na bacanje i savršeni su i obožavaaaaam to :DKao što se da naslutiti i ovaj put smo u odvjetničkom svijetu.
Iskre frcaju na sve strane ;)I iako su ovakve knjige predvidive jer likovi na kraju uvijek završe skupa vi svejedno uživate u toj vožnji kroz knjigu do samoga kraja.
Pros• Some cute and funny bantering• One really sweet moment (the hospital/Jason’s house scene)• Jeremy: Jason’s best friend who is funny and supportive• Really cute endingCons• The arrogance of Jason and how he treated women in the past were nauseating. (view spoiler)[Also, I don’t understand why Jason didn’t just tell Taylor that he and Naomi never had anything. Like he expects her to trust him, when she’s still thinking he and Naomi are having sex? Like what?? He should’ve just told her so sh
(view spoiler)[Also, I don’t understand why Jason didn’t just tell Taylor that he and Naomi never had anything.
(hide spoiler)]•	Characters lacked depth: I felt like both Taylor and Jason could have been explored more as characters.
We did not get to explore his family (we do not even know if he has a family) or the reason why he chose acting as a career, or his goal in life, or anything else really.•	Romance also lacked depth: While I like the bantering and a few cute-funny moments between Taylor and Jason, I would have liked MORE.
(view spoiler)[Not really a love triangle, but Taylor does go on a date with Scott after Jason announces that he’s having sex with Naomi (even though that’s a lie).
Lately I’ve been looking to my Erotica pile when I needed a change, but this time I thought a nice, light and fun Contemporary was just what I needed.
Her style was wonderful and I really liked the book’s flow, story’s sweetness and the character’s sass.Just the Sexiest Man Alive is about Taylor Donovan, an attorney from Chicago who specializes in sexual harassment cases.
I really appreciated that about her and I liked Taylor from the start.Now Jason is a different story.
A very smart story filled with wonderfully written characters I still thought about days after finishing the book.
Such a fun, sweet romance. I smiled so much throughout this book that my cheeks hurt! There's no sex, it's all "fade to black" but I didn't mind. I can't explain why this book was so cute, but it just was. I think that the whole Scott and Daniel parts were left a bit open-ended for my taste-would have loved to see them get told off. But that's cool, I was happy with the ending :)
Really cute romance. Great writing too! I debated for months if I wanted to read this one as it is G-rated, but I am glad I finally read it. It was a quick and enjoyable read, and I will definately read more by this author.
Oh my, it's like fun of the Entourage and silliness of Boston Legal got meshed up together into a light and breezy smoothie. I wonder what kind of smoothie that puppy got, hmm...The most important thing is that this story did not even remotely take itself seriously. I mean come on, that ending? Riiiiiight. But I enjoyed it specifically for that same reason, although there was a great ammount of eye-rolling, so be warned.Over and out
Great great great fun & funny book Kada poznata cikaska odvjetnica Taylor Donnovan na privremenom radu u Los Angelesu, dobije zadatak pomoci glumcu Jasonu Andrewsu poznatom kao najseksi frajer na svijetu da se pripremi za ulogu odvjetnika u novom filmu upadnemo u zabavnu, slatku i opustajucu romanticnu komediju.
U kojoj ima dosta smjesnih obrata, dijaloga koje dok citate imate osjecaj da gledate pred sobom te zanimljivih i realisticnih opisa kako odvjetnickog tako i svijeta industrije zabave.
Dok sam citala u ulozi Taylor zamisljala sam Juliju Roberts, a u ulozi Jasona zamisljala sam Vina Diesela inace svi su likovi vrlo zivo opisani i za svakog ce vam sigurno netko pasti na pamet.
I appreciate what a strong and smart woman Taylor is, she is what I want in heroines.
Years later when I could not understand heroines like Taylor the first time I read it are now who are what I want to be.
When you reading this book you get to appreciate Taylor not as a heroine, or lawyer but as a woman that knows what she wants, that is witty, that has flaws, she is not perfect and a woman you would want as a friend.
Taylor and Jason are why I read books.
Jason wants to learn more about her; Taylor, with the assistance of Us Weekly and every secretary in her office, knows too much about him.
Lots of hijinks and sarcastic banter between Taylor and Jason ensue.This book was a LOT of fun.
I loved how witty and sarcastic Taylor and Jason were.
I liked Jason's obvious and thus dorky attempts to get Taylor's attention.
What didn't work for me was that after Taylor was photographed with Jason once, there's NO WAY her identity would be a secret for long, especially after a night out at Hyde.
