https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/274230.Gaia
Gaia: A New Look at Life on Earth, is certainly an apt title, as Lovelock does have a fascinating perspective with which he paints our world.
Often times the intervention of animals helps to aerate the soil, so a symbiosis occurs between the soil and other living organisms.
Having said that his observations about the planet were groundbreaking for their time and his Gaian perspective of an organism that has been going strong for 3 Aeons with or without humans is very humbling.
The man who achieved global fame for his theory that the whole earth is a single organism now believes that we can only hope that the earth will take care of itself in the face of completely unpredictable climate change.At the age of 90, Prof Lovelock is resigned to his own fate and the fate of the planet.
Whether the planet saves itself or not, he argues, all we can do is to "enjoy life while you can".
Trying to save the planet 'is a lot of nonsense'.31.05.2017
I read this because of my interest in science-friendly earth religion.
In my other readings, and even in private meditations, I keep coming back to Gaia theory.
What does that nutshell contain?This book has the answer.
I believe this book, written in 1979, is the first popular articulation of Gaia theory.
It's required reading for an interested novice like myself.It may be a popular treatment, but that doesn't mean it's pablum.
Still and all, this book transformed my basic understanding of Gaia theory.
I recommend this book to anyone interested in the topic, with the above caveats.
That is not actually the main thrust of Lovelock’s argument at all: instead, what he argues is that Gaia, or Earth, is a self-sustaining system with in-built feedback loops which hold it more or less steady and capable of supporting life.If you’ve studied climate or geology or even the water cycle, you know that he’s not wrong about the self-sustaining system.
There’s so many negative feedback loops which keep things in check — some of which are, of course, threatening to be sabotaged by the action of one particular upstart mammal species with delusions of grandeur.
While I do like the idea of nature being an actual single entity/being/organism deliberately managing the planet for the benefit of all species, this is a belief and not something that can or should be applied to science (or visa versa for that matter).
Lovelock's explanations of many of the basic Earth systems were good, relatively easy to read and accompanied by useful examples relating them to processes/systems that those without a lot of environmental knowledge can understand.
For me this is not a scientific theory but a belief/idea that has its basis in the religions of old, Wiccan being a good example.
so, global warming and rising oceans are bad news for us maybe but planet earth has seen it all before
Seminal. Not at all what the treehuggers and New Agers think it is.
Disagree with Gaia Hypothesis did not means this book is bad written. Lovelock gave me insight about how to use chemistry and thermodynamics as analytical tool.
On the other, Lovelock in his introduction suggests this book is intended for a general audience and that the descriptions of the scientific processes may be too "poetic" for people with actual scientific backgrounds.By the same token, Lovelock suggests that the way this theory is often described--earth is one huge, self-regulating living thing--is a silly oversimplification.
I found it...unconvincing.But even if the big picture doesn't seem to add up exactly, there are still sections of the book that are compelling, and I often agreed with Lovelock as he discussed certain particulars of how humankind might better interact with nature.
Just imagine for a moment--an organism as big as our planet Earth.Reading Edward Wilson's "The Future of Life" served as the spark to pick up and read this book.
Robert Lovelock (to my knowledge) is the contemporary father of the study of the earth as a complete living system.Lovelock readily admits that the book serves more to promote the dialog about our planet as a living, breathing whole and to share key discoveries that support his concept.
With the scope of the topic requiring knowledge of both physical and biological science, and the small number of pages, he manages to instruct and create a sense of awe in a short amount of time.The 3 major principles he brings to light about Gaia are:1.
It's funny of the Gaïa theory is something I deeply believe in for many years now, but never encountered before reading Luc Ferry's book about transhumanism.
And I must say that this theory is deeply interesting (ok, I was already rooting for it before reading this book so it doesn't help) and with the latest climate changes and human trend, the thought of Earth being a sentient organism is something that becomes more and more concrete.
If you're interested in discovering why our little planet may be alive on its own, this book will provide you with a wide range of arguments showing that not everything can be explained that simply.
It isn't Lovelock's fault that environmentalists lacking a firm grounding in the natural sciences took his ideas and went whacko with them.
This book isn't the metaphysical or new agey nonsense that may have been partially inspired by it.
What it is, rather, is a decent treatment of mainstream biogeochemical cycling theory, written for the popular reader and employing somewhat poetic language.
I would recommend skipping it and reading Schlesinger's classic "Biogeochemistry" text instead, unless you need to know exactly what Lovelock says for countering those who went overboard with his ideas or you lack the background in basic chemistry and biology for following Schlesinger.
This book was challenging for me due to the high focus on the chemical processes of the earth and atmosphere. I was hoping this focus would drop off after the first few chapters, but Lovelock continues it throughout the book. However, I don't think this will present a problem to those studied in chemistry on a basic level. The hypothesis seemed a little outdated to me as I think the thought of the earth being one large living organism has pretty much seeped into most of our understanding by now. I did, however, especially enjoy the chapter on cybernetics.
One great, ingenious concept stretched out over a whole book. By reading the introduction and the last chapter you have a whole summary of the purpose of the book and the ideas behind it. The idea itself is truly fascinating and I think I have come to agree with Lovelock. Love the concept, however the book gets very tedious and repetitive.
Interesting theory, but could have been presented better. One of New Scientist magazine's 25 most influential science books. I intend to read (or re-read four) them all and randomly chose this one to start. I think I'll have to come back to it after I've thought a bit on the premise.
An interesting book. This was a fairly easy read considering the remote nature of the subject. Lovelock presents a theory of everything that is quite breathtaking in its originality but he presents it in a very clear and credible way.
Within our bodies, no less than 500,000 atoms rendered unstable in that event still erupt every minute, releasing a tiny fraction of the energy stored from that fierce fire of long ago.The Earth's present stock of uranium contains only 0.72 per cent of the dangerous isotope U235.
The hazards of nuclear and of ultra-violet radiation are much in mind these days and some fear that they may destroy all life on Earth.
Our present atmosphere, with an oxygen level of 21 per cent, is at the safe upper limit for life.
If you consider that much of the first book, A Wrinkle in Time, was concerned with tesseracts, you might get a sense of how L'Engle played with scale and our perceptions of our surroundings.All of this is to say that Lovelock's underlying idea in Gaia theory, that of deep, fundamental bio-physical interconnection, is a concept I've always been so familiar with that the periodic reminders I get about the relative newness of the concept are a bit of a shock.
Like Rachel Carson’s Silent Spring, which gave an inchoate environmental movement in the early 1960s a scientifically grounded focal point and passionate call to arms, Lovelock’s book nudged the movement forward by offering an innovative perspective.
Lovelock inevitably concludes that, not only do we live on a very special planet, but that it is no accident that it is so robustly self-regulating.Lovelock’s book is grounded in science, with plenty of charts and explanations, but unlike Carson’s alarming ‘cause and effect’ call to action in Silent Spring, it feels more like scientific deism – some sort of grand design.
In Gaia's case, the perspective is novel, but the proposition that Earth is a living, self-regulating organism is both untestable and a leap of faith.
Gaia, or How the Earth is like an Oven.James Lovelock's look at life on earth isn't new any more; it's now over thirty years old.
This hasn't happened, Lovelock claims, because life itself evolved to regulate the temperature.The trouble is that this is little more than a hypothesis (or was when the book was written).
It's also because Lovelock views life on earth as a more resilient system than other people do.
I didn’t fall however for any of the daft New Age additions which, to James Lovelock’s considerable annoyance, began to augment the original hypothesis as his ideas achieved mainstream recognition.Gaia Theory has been made more sophisticated – in the manner of all scientific theories – as the decades have passed, but this original book presents all the core ideas.
Though now called Earth System Theory, it has achieved mainstream recognition.
His remarkable autobiography 'Homage To Gaia' explains a lot of the background to the development of the mind that teased Gaia out of our planet’s geophysical environment.Decades on, it’s still a ground-breaking book.
Lovelock lays out an argument that the Earth's oceans, atmosphere and biosphere constitute a single living organism, named Gaia.
The notion of Gaia is rooted in the ancient concept of Mother Earth, but formed in Lovelock's mind as he was trying to figure out how to recognize life on other planets as a NASA consultant in the 1960s.
Although I feel that the concept of Gaia as a single organism is flawed, Lovelock's book is nonetheless largely correct, and it's an accessible and influential science book that everyone should read.
Dünya’daki canlı maddenin, yani havanın, okyanusların ve kara yüzeylerinin, Dünya’nın yaşam için elverişli bir yer olarak kalmasını sağlayacak karmaşık bir sistem olduğu iddiasıyla Gaia evrime ve çevreye dair bilimsel görüşler üzerinde çok çabuk bir etki sahibi oldu.
Gaia, yeryüzündeki canlı maddenin, havanın, okyanusların ve kara yüzeylerinin, Dünya’nın yaşam için elverişli bir yer olarak kalmasını sağlayacak karmaşık bir sistem olduğunu ortaya oyuyor.
Bu yeni baskıda Lovelock, tartışmaların bugünkü konumunu da özetliyor.“Bu kitap, yüzyılımıza dair çığır açıcı bir kavrayışı tetikleyebilir.”– CoEvolution Quarterly“Uzun süreden beri okuduğum en iyi kitap… Hem özgün hem de ustaca yazılmış.”– New Scientist“[Lovelock] genel okurun karşısına cüretkar bir hipotez koyuyor… meraka kapılmış özgün bir düşünürün heyecan verici ve kişisel bir tartışması.”– Philip Morrison, Scientific American“Bu kitabı uçsuz bucaksız bir keyifle okudum.”– René Dubos, Nature
Aboriginal cultures knew this and agreed with it, and Lovelock acknowledges that in this book.
Science is by nature reductionistic, and Lovelock's book works in the opposite direction, toward being inclusionistic.
It's interesting that he acknowledges that no single human could ever grasp the whole of science now, and that scientists typically know only a subsection of a single chapter in the book of life or knowledge.
For an impatient reader like me, I found myself skipping through many sections to cut to Lovelock's conclusions.
But his conclusions are important and well worth your time if you've never been exposed to them.
Yes, we've read new age freaks, we have even familiarised ourselves with asian traditions, but the argument is so much more powerful and surprising if it comes from one of the foremost scientists and inventors of our age.
So once you get under the skin of this idea, there is no going back.The book starts almost like any book on creation and evolution of life; at times I almost felt like I'm re-reading some of it.
But then it takes a surprising turn; where most talk about habitable zones and necessity for stable conditions, Lovelock postulates that those stable conditions are actually a result of life, rather than the other way around (once it gets started).
Certainly worth reading!
I'm not going to get into the science, read the book for that, but basically this book is about Lovelock's pan-theory of how Earth regulates itself in terms of environment and interaction between all biological life and chemical elements.
Lovelock identifies Earth's "conscious" regulator as the titular Gaia, and credits her with the ability to keep all the earth and all it's inhabitants in constant balance.
As you read you realise what a fine balance the environment thrives in and it's fascinating how Gaia keeps it all together.
A very interesting theory of the Earth as an organism and how it may self-regulate to preserve a stable atmosphere conducive to life.
Fascinating segments on such control mechanism such as how methane production might be essential to the regulation of oxygen levels, which in excess would prove disastrous for our planet.
Highly recommended for a new perspective on our planet which is somewhat more scientific than the average person preaching the interconnectedness of life.
However, I skipped over most of his views on pollution.
These views I found issue with were based on information at the time, so I don't know if he still holds them.
One of Cambridge Sustainability's Top 50 Books for Sustainability, as voted for by our alumni network of over 3,000 senior leaders from around the world.
Essentially, it postulates that the physical and chemical condition of the surface of the Earth, of the atmosphere, and of the oceans has been and is actively made fit and comfortable by the presence of life itself.
This is in contrast to the conventional wisdom, which holds that life adapted to the planetary conditions as it and they evolved their separate ways.
I had shied away from the "Gaia" books because I didn't think they were real science.
Reading one finally, I find that James Lovelock is indeed a real, independent scientist.
What Lovelock is trying to figure out are the mechanisms by which our planet self-regulates to the point of keeping the gases in our atmosphere at just the right levels to sustain life.
The oceans are certainly involved, as well as the continental shelves.
Man does have a potentially large impact on earth, but perhaps not exactly as popular culture describes it.Excellent book to widen your curiosity space, especially about oceans.
Frequently it is important to go back and read the original work that started a movement or a paradigm change, even if it seems old or outdated.
In fact, every work is a product of its time, and by reading the original you get a glimpse not only into the work itself but also into the Zeitgeist of the era from which the work emerged.Gaia is a book I have wanted to read for a long time.
In other words, life is not something that occupies a pre-given environment, but rather, is something that actively shapes its environment.
