https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58547.Journals
My daughter and I both thought it was pretty cool.
One thing I did find sad was that on the front of it it said "If you read this you'll judge".
While it may not be your normal diary or journal (although who's to say what's normal) we get to see many things including some of the thoughts of a sensitive, funny, sometimes angry and extremely talented young man.I didn't know about all of the controversy over it's release when I bought it.
However, apparently there was also another quote he wrote that said "Please read my diary, look through my things, and figure me out."I'm not entirely sure how I feel now.
The fact that this book exists:1) makes me never want to trust anyone ever ever EVER again.
I watched Imagine afterward and felt much better.)3) makes me want to throw up in my mouth a tiny bit.
I believe this speaks for itself.5) makes me want to sock Courtney Love.
I just can't escape the scummy voyeur feeling that creeps all over me when holding it.7) makes me think "hmmm...if my life centered around a junkie cuntrag, and I was a misunderstood junkie genius, would I load myself up with a triple-whammy dose of heroin and then shoot myself just for good measure?
Wouldn't that many opiates make me feel too euphoric to hate myself and want to die?" Or did I...8) is sheer ickiness.
People can understand John Lennon, but to some Kurt Cobain seems like a curmudgeon (yes, he wrote a song by that title as well) who was unhappy about being a brilliant artist.
"She should have been a son.""I'm on my time, with everyone.""I wish I was like you, easily amused.""I'm not like them, but I can pretend.""I feel stupid and contagious.""Big cheese, make me.""He'll give you breathing holes, and you'll think you're happy.""Throw down your umbilical noose so I can climb right back.""I just tried hard to have a father, but instead I had a dad.""Come, as you are, as you were, as I want you to be.
Very personal notes.
I think I have this book somewhere. I could never bring myself to read it. A journal is a private thing between the pages and the writer. I'd be fucking mortified if my boyfriend/friends/family released my most private thoughts to the entire world. And don't give me that  Please read my diary, look through my things and figure me out  bullshit. That's from a note intended for his first girlfriend, Tracy Marander, with whom he lived for a little while in Olympia, Washington.Vultures.
give me leonard cohen's after world, i have very bad posturesif there's no such things as those beautiful corpses, then how can we witness the magnificent lights of Rock n' Roll without stepping on them?
I found this at my local library sale this past summer, read it through, and in the process thought I would give it to Jessie Ann Foley, author of Carnival at Bray, which features a concert with Nirvana, and for which Cobain's spirit seems central.
Nineties grunge rock.
This volume is a facsimile of Cobain's actual journals and notebooks and unsent letters.
I, an old folkie, preceded Nirvana by a long shot, but I was smart enough to know what he represented to the young people of his generation, and I own some of his music.
Oh, yeah, I gave it to Jessie for coming to my YA class!
"It's hard to decipter the difference between a sincere entertainer and a honest swindler" Kurt Cobain, the one who change a generation and transcended the dead...was a really complex man. He saw his live in a really dark and sad way, but at the same time, somehow, he was positive about the future, but the world turned his back.Are two things about this book, first isn't exactly a journal, in fact there are letters and excerpts from the actual diary, but not complete. This is bad? No, i feel a
He saw his live in a really dark and sad way, but at the same time, somehow, he was positive about the future, but the world turned his back.Are two things about this book, first isn't exactly a journal, in fact there are letters and excerpts from the actual diary, but not complete.
From language to handwriting, everything indicates that something is changing, it becomes more frantic and chaotic maelstrom that drags you into the abyss does nothing but grow, but some of the things he talks about are amazing, everyone should listen/read it or spend a little of time trying to descifrate the pictures meaning.
(Water-damaged in a Paris hotel bathtub if I remember correctly.) This particular journal covers the period around the Bleach album and the beginning of writing some songs that would later appear on Nevermind.I like that there was no editing (well, that we know of.
As they said in the movie Seven, "...his mind just poured out on paper."If you keep a journal yourself or if you are interested at peering inside the head of a musical genius, and if you are fan enough of Nirvana to own Bleach, then you should at least flip through Kurt Cobain's Journals.-Conrad Zero
How am I supposed to know what he means by "THE OLD SCHOOL IS GOING DOWN FAST, FUCK FACE" without Kurt Loder voice overs to interpret for me?
I sorta sense that he is angry at baby boomers.
But I don't know why.
What's wrong with recycling "Louie Louie" and "GeeEllOhArEyeAa" over and over again in their jammin' boomer songs?
Manly men also irritate Cobain, which means he must be some kind of feminist fairy.
I know that Paglia lady saw his tiny emaciated body on stage and "worried for the future of rock music." I worry too.
Though the book is a capitalistic marketing of an icon I could not resist buying it. I wanted to know if he was the same person I had reckoned him to be through his songs. When I finished the book , I had realised how incredibly daft and supremely beautiful was his passion for music. The book is an excellent journey of affect through passion and how it burns you out if left on its own.
Probabilmente gli unici che sanno davvero chi era Kurt Cobain sono quelli che lo hanno conosciuto davvero, quelli che erano con lui prima e frattanto che il suo mito diventasse realtà.A noi non restano altro che i pensieri rubati dai suoi diari e le sue canzoni, e va bene così.Oh well, whatever, nevermind."Mi sento come un cretino a scrivere di me stesso come se fossi un’icona semidivina del pop-rock americano oppure un autoproclamato prodotto della ribellione inscatolata dalle corporation, ma ho sentito talmente tanti racconti e storie assurdamente esagerati dai miei amici e ho letto così tante patetiche diagnosi freudiane da quattro soldi sulla mia infanzia nelle interviste, su come io sia un notorio eroinomane perso, un alcolizzato, autodistruttivo, e tuttavia così evidentemente sensibile, fragile, pacato, narcolettico, nevrotico, una formica impazzita che in qualunque momento possa andare in overdose e buttarsi da un tetto, impazzire, spararsi in testa o tutte e tre le cose.
'Cause let's not forget that "Cobain was a master at jerking your chain".In any case, this book is for die-hard fans only: it's a non-book with a young man's private notes, including a few letters to some of his friends, drawings, lyrics, plus one or two interesting reflections about drug usage.
The pen can blacken the paper or faint away, and some pages can be hard to read, but you can see the continuous machinations about the craft, the music, the visuals, the band.
If the songs had not been enough, here you can understand how Nirvana was the quintessential punk band, more than any other rationalization.Other things that come out are the contradictions.
The low rating is NOT due to the journals content (how can you rate something like someone's journals anyhow?!) but more so to the fact that I didn't feel good about reading someones personal thoughts not meant to be shared.
I also suspect I likely would have enjoyed this a lot more back in the 80's.I finally decided to get this out at the library out of curiosity I guess but now wish that I hadn't...I mostly skimmed it, read a bit of it more in depth but it just seemed really so very personal and made me feel uncomfortable, like snooping would.
other people do save the world in 3 hours - I've read the whole book.Kurt Cobain was such a inspiring personality, I couldn't stop reading through his journals and his thoughts and stories and ideas. he was just brilliant
In the first pages the book describes the early beginnings of nirvana ..
to the prime of their glory days It also shows the overwhelming influence of heroine over Kurt's life , music and mental health and how his drug addiction was enhanced by his stomach condition ..
He wasn't one of these morons who go barging about their drug use ..
he was literally pushed in to using heroine as an analgesic ...the handwriting gets really shaky and erratic at some pages  I loved the doodles and the sketches ..
Kurt could actually draw !!
Ok when i first heard about this, I thought it was a cheap pandering to the fan-boys. But it is totally worth it. It's more than just scrawled song lyrics. It's really pretty intimate. The voice of a generation was just as confused as the rest of us. I guess we knew that already, but here are the details.
This is a lower rating simply because I don't really know how to rate it. Yes, I bought this book because I am a HUGE Nirvana fan. Yes, I bought it back in my early teenage years where I was mildly (ok, maybe unhealthily) obsessed with Kurt Cobain. Now it just feels dirty and wrong to read it. Needless to say, I don't have this one displayed out in the open on my bookshelves. Respect for Kurt.
No lo he leído y no lo leeré. Me parece el máximo crimen contra la privacidad, y muy mal Courtney Love por no solo permitir sino que por incitar esto.Todos tenemos derecho a un poco de privacidad. Aunque ya no estemos aquí.
Se volete leggere la mia recensione, cliccate qui! http://ascwblog.blogspot.it/2016/01/k...
This was a gift to me by my best friend on my 18th birthday. I'll always remember that insignificant birthday because of her.
Kurt Cobain pasó (en mi mente) de ser ese artista deprimido y drogadicto a un tipo super woke, con un sentido del humor que me encantó. Ahora entiendo mucho más a la persona y el personaje que hicieron de él. Si te gusta nirvana es un MUST.
They are the legitimate journals of the late Kurt Cobain, and also included are various drawings, lyrics of his, and letters he wrote to other people.
If you’re a music fan, a Nirvana/Kurt fan, this book will definitely interest you.
For example, I had no idea that Kurt had a seriously painful stomach condition that couldn’t be cured and made his life absolutely miserable (and led to further heroin use as it was the only thing that could take some of the pain away.)I had been listening to Nirvana’s Greatest Hits while I read, and also watching videos of his interviews and them playing live, so my life was Kurt Cobain/Nirvana for a couple of weeks.
And I remember, when I got to the very end of the book, I read his suicide note.
They are a collection of whirling, sporadic, private thoughts of an individual - I don’t think you can rate something like that.This was an interesting read.
The cover reads, “If you read, you’ll judge.” From reading this, you find out that Kurt had a lot of problems with how he was portrayed in the media - how he would give an in-depth 2 hour interview, but what ended up being released would be a quote that would be taken out of context - he felt he was not portrayed truthfully, and this lead to the masses judging him based on out of context or incomplete information.
I think reading these journals provides a deeper insight into Kurt Cobain.
Whether I completely understand what he was trying to say doesn't matter as long as his writing resonates with me but it is interesting to look into it.If this book gave me one thing it is references of his.
It's a book to further feed your curiosity about the icon he became, but mostly to give you a larger understanding on where he stood in his beliefs in life (the diary is full of political talk and music industry bashing).
It was really amazing to see how "normal" Kurt was and that he sometimes lied to himself or felt mistreated as he got ripped apart by journalists trying to keep him in the spot light.
You also follow a man, who at first did what he loved and slowly found the flaws in the industry and the burden that taggs along with fame.I found a lot of parallels between his thoughts and his way of expressing them and mine.
Silly fans (which rarely even exclude other band members) and other "myth builders" always assume - incorrectly - that when they see a lyricist scribbling notes at the "last minute", it must mean s/he wrote it down there and then.I'm never buying that explanation (other than in cases where the lyrics in question truly show no higher merit), and since I can't be proven wrong anyways, I'm calling bullshit here as well.People like to quote Cobain as having said that music always comes first, and lyrics second.
Yes they are Kurt Cobain's personal journals that shouldn't be read but he stated in his journal "Don't read my diary when I'm gone.
Okay I take that back, I learned he can draw like a master, his doodles were very original and creepy, he's a great poet and can write great lyrics, we have many favorite bands in common, and well he loves his daughter more then anything and wants to be there for her.That brings me to the whole realization of why would he off himself at such a young age if his life wasn't complete.
Reading Kurt Cobain's Journals is a fast track into the mind of the deceased rockstar himself.
As someone who was born only a few years before Cobain died, I didn't grow up with Nirvana woven into the fabric of my youth, but I've grown to appreciate their grunge fuck-it-allness over time.
Somewhat surprisingly, the biggest thing I got out of the Journals was a sense of Cobain's business mind and commitment to his music.
He spent shit tons of his own money and time creating and promoting his music, and he had a vision he believed in so strongly that his hard work got him to the top.
Journals is all about Kurt Cobain and his life before and during Nirvana.
Throughout the book are drawings and song lyrics and just simple journal entries by Kurt.
There are also some really deep things about Kurt and his past that showed good things and bad.After reading "Journals" I got a really good look into Kurt's views and ideas.
The book also showed a little of life inside Nirvana which was really interesting for me, because they were a really good band in my eyes.
All in all this is a must read if you like Kurt Cobain/Nirvana.
