https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111651.Bloom_County_Babylon
But it starred kids and a talking penguin and a spazzy cat that couldn't say anything but "ack".
I was 8 years old and wanted to know what the deal was with Bloom County.Mom didn't like the strip.
I tripped across the book in the library and suddenly the kid who had stared at it in Waldenbooks thought, "Hey. You can read this now."What a time capsule.
Also kids, a talking penguin, and a spazzy cat going "ack".
If not for that, Bloom County could easily outlive its time, alongside classics like The Far Side.
The drawings and heart of the strip HAVE outlived their time.
I remember waiting impatiently for the funny pages on Sunday to catch up on Opus and the crazy Bloom County gang. Berkeley Breathed captured the political angst behind the Reagan era and lampooned it magnificently in this amazing series. With an endless array of incredible characters - I found it more accessible to my early teen brain than the more intellectual Doonesbury with which its political philosophy could be favourably compared. It is hilarious and insightful and a delightful read.
Confession: I can't stand Hemingway, and I believe that Bloom County at its best, was as sharp, witty and basically honest as any more weighty political cartoon on the editorial page--sometimes more honest.
Before Berke Breathed put all his characters in underpants, Bloom County was an incredible pointy stick to poke our 80's middle-class complacency with, and to hang it up for our own ridicule: our political worries, our everyday insecurities, our TV culture.
Everybody was a Binkley at one point, though our anxiety closets were less literal; everyone knew a Steve Dallas, whose love poetry is as memorable as cheap cologne ["In my dreams/ You're all I sees/ Boobs butt and knees/ Be my main squeeze."] Go ahead.
I remember reading each of these strips in the Boston Globe as a kid. They shaped my political awareness. I bought the books at about the age of 12 or so, and re-read them whenever the political climate of the U.S. starts to seem a little baffling...
Bloom County Babylon is a really big book of comics.
Since this book covers the first five years, you can really follow how the main characters changed and grew, both in what they looked like and their character development.
Maybe that is why I love this comic strip so much.
No. The reason I love this strip so much is the characters, like: Opus, Milo, Binkley, Oliver, Steve Dallas, and all the other minor players.
But since he really isn't around that much, usually because he is dead or something, it is no big deal.
Either way, Bloom County Babylon should be on your "Must Read" list.
This collection includes many of the earliest Bloom County comic strips as well as a generous selection from the first 5-years (unfortunately it's not a complete collection).It has the very first appearance of future Bloom County star Opus the Penguin "A penguin and his boy." Also Bill the Cat "Pffft!
Ackkk!" the anti-Garfield, introduced as being created purely for merchandising purposes.Some of the jokes are dated, some of the humor a bit of an acquired taste but as Opus might say, "You know, it's still pretty darn good!"Recommended for anyone with a sense of humor.
Characters include Steve Dallas, lawyer - hopeless w/ women who lives in the boarding house; Milo Bloom, precocious boy who works for the local paper; Cutter John, vet; Opus, talking penguin who is often the butt of jokes and generally hopeless w/ women; Binkley, boy w/ monster issues; talking computers and cockroaches; and Bill the Cat, general reprobate and party animal (pardon the pun).This beloved comic is a bit dated; I didn't get all the references (those I did get made me feel a bit old - do the truly young remember Brooke Shields?).
The mid-80s genius continues.
This is a collection of some sorts, repeating some of the previous three volumes and filling in some gaps that weren't issued in those.
There are numerous storylines bridging this period and the Billy and the Boingers zaniness: Oliver's pigmentation device which will turn the South African UN delegate black (this was during the apartheid era, remember) resulting in Opus and Cutter John getting lost at sea in their suborbital wheelchair and captured by the Soviets; Opus dies; Opus returns with amnesia; Bill the Cat has an affair with Jeane Kirkpatrick--christ, it just never ends.
Foursquare devastation of the Reagan era right here, folks.
Found in a Goodwill along with a treasure trove of other Bloom County collections, this was the best of them all.
I re-met characters I had forgotten existed, and lived through plots that I had not experience at the time they were written.
Berkeley Breathed is a remarkable artist who brings characters to life so well that I feel like I am a part of the Bloom County community.
He also had/has an knack for holding up a mirror to our political system.
Reading this book now drives home the realization that the more things change, the more they stay the same.
Bravo Mr. Breathed.
I still quote this strip--perhaps too often, but in a charmingly dorky way, I like to think: (Is this list spoilers?
Not out of context, I think, but just in case, spoiler alert)So he folded up his tongue, and he moved to MalibuI suspect you're carbonating my hormonesPear pimples for hairy fishnutsMan, those Samoans are a surly bunchWhat does it mean, to 'wind a watch'?I'm sorry, sir, but today's topic is Nun BeatingDevil bunnies!
I snort the nose, Lucifer!
Banana!
Banana!As God is my witness, I haven't the faintest idea what I should do'Taint corn, it's dope.
Besides being disturbed by the few Outland comics in our local newspaper as a youngster(before they were pulled I think), this was my introduction into one of the greater American comic artists of our era. It's very interesting to watch the evolution of Opus, from pre-opus to the Woody Allen of penguins we know today. These comics are just so absurdly funny, intimate, and probably quite racy for the time. When things are down, I can crack this open and imagine myself at the boarding house(or daisy patch) with these guys.
Bloom County has always been a weird comic for me. In my youth, I thought it was mostly incomprehensible, but the artwork, silly gross-out humor, and occasional violent brutality made me smile. Now, going back, I can actually make out some of the dated political references he's making, and while it does get a bit overbearing at times, the comic still just WORKS. Take Doonesbury and sweeten it up with just enough childlike whimsy from Calvin & Hobbes to mellow out that furious liberal edge and this is what you end up with.
I really enjoyed Bloom County the first several years it was being published, but then it started to get repetitive and seemed to be trying to hard. The early years had wonderful cynicism and irony and were just plan funny. If you have seen the comic Outland, you will recognize Opus the Penguin, but please don't take that strip as an indication of what Bloom County was like in its heyday. Outland is just not funny.Conclusion: Early Bloom County rocks.
Bloom County is still hilarious. Most of the political references are obsolete, but with another George Bush in the whitehouse, it's hardly noticeable. It seems odd to read about the Russians being the bad guys in the world, since the Cold War has been over for a long time. Breathed remains a giant among cartoonists.
I keep re-reading this every 5 years or so, and each time it's aged both well and badly in different ways. This edition, sadly, doesn't include the Donald Trump's Brain arc, which I kind of want to re-read next.
Astonishing to think back at how great this was. A daily comic strip that was sort of the Jon Stewart show of its day, in an allegorical format. My friends and I really loved it in high school and college in the mid-80s. "Bloom County" was an easy signifier of like-mindedness for those of us who weren't entirely sold on Reagan's America.
Classic Bloom County. I remember going to study hall in the library in high school and getting the Des Moines Register each day so that I could read Bloom County. Even all these years later, the comics still hold up.
Political and cultural satire of the 80's by a true master who was at one time a newspaper artist until he was fired for a rather famous satirical depiction of the local PTA! I love his humour and his jabs at all things Ronald Reagen.
(Next to) last line: "All in all, statistically speaking, I'd say there was about a one in 33 zillion chance that you'd be unbelievably lucky enough to just be alive and standing here with pistachio nut ice cream on your feet!!"
After Andrew Vachss' gloomy Another Life, I'm in need of something light.A cartoon character for adults, Opus is sure to lift you out of the pits. I was really sorry to see him disappear from the Sunday comic strip.
It's a good read when you're feeling nostalgic for Bloom County. It doesn't quite hold up over time, primarily due to all the political references that made the comic so distinct. It's a good bathroom book.
I'm pretty sure this is a best-of collection, and basically skims over 5 years of the strip. Definitely worth the read if you haven't read the strip before, or don't remember how awesome it was or don't remember what happened in the 80s. Totally transcends the genre.
An awesome collection of Bloom County strips! I had great fun reading it - I hadn't seem some of these strips since the first time I read them, lo these many years ago. It was especially comforting to read it, because my boyfriend brought it over for me to read while I was sick :)
I LOVE BERKE BREATHED!!! My dad introduced me to these comics that he read when he was a kid. They are Hilarious! Definitely my favorite comic. followed closely by Calvin and Hobbs. If you see these books, pick them up. They went out of production a while ago.
god i love bloom county. it was so great in the beginning. i really think it's one of the few comic strips where i actually love the earlier strips far more than the later ones. this is just a great collection of those strips. milo was always my fav.
These strips from the funnypage actually taught me a lot about eighties politics and culture when I started reading them as a child. As political as they often are, even preachy, it is amazing how many belly laughs the material delivers.
Ah, Bill the Cat and Opus, how I love you and miss you. The eighties were a good time for comic strips.
Damn I love this comic. Many of the daily strips are still very relevant (while others were extremely topical for the time, but have not aged as gracefully).
"What if you'd been born a babbling airhead, Binkley?"
Opus is the man, well a man in penguin form. Excellent comics to cheer you up on a down day. I read a few every morning to start my day off right. Very recommended
