https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50140.Big_Sur
Kerouac is a paradox.
He's simultaneously over-rated and under-rated.
His worst books (particularly On the Road) are iconic and uncritically adored by teenagers and hippy-dippy morons, while his best works are overlooked.Big Sur ranks among his best.
It's a picture of a man at odds with his iconic status.
It's in direct opposition to so much of his early work that sees holiness and bliss lurking everywhere, including the gutter.
And the ending, an onamonapoetic ode to the roaring coast of Big Sur, is a vision of destruction and restoration rolled into one.
When I was in Saint Petersburg, Florida this past spring...( I'm going for a week again this coming December)...I noticed that in every book store I visited...Jack Kerouac's books were on display.
So, when I discovered "Big Sur", was a $1.99 Kindle special recently --( having not read it) --I bought it.
Now -- since reading "Big Sur", I want to rent the movie with Kate Bosworth, Jean-Marc Barr, and Josh Lucas.
Jack Kerouac spent three weeks in Big Sur.......struggles with alcoholism, and has an agonizing love affair.
Towards the end of the book Jack returns home to be with his mother-- and its all so very sad.
The Beat Legend is in top form here, as he describes as best as we could ask him to the sickness and insanity that plagued his final years, shortly after the publication of On the Road.
We watch in horror and sometimes sick fascination as his mind and body deteriorate under the pressures of the bottle, the sudden fame, and the sadness of existence which took his life just a few years after the novel's publication.
It is my hope that in death you found not the horror you have outlined here, but the peace that's described in the Zen, Bhuddist, and Christian scriptures you so often cited.
In the ocean, the sea, whee.Kerouac here is stream-of-consciousness and it’s a tale of two Big Surs, one he encounters alone and idyllic and writing every day and dry (that is, alcohol-free) in a friend’s cabin, a kind of fast-typed journal of peacefulness that he needs because ten years ago he was On the Road with Dean Moriarty/Cody which became a beatnik anthem for a nation of young romantics and then Jack kept drinking and Dean got thrown in jail and Jack became surrounded by a thousand or five sycophants and young guys in Dharma Bums t shirts knocking on his door to get drunk with him, and he most often agreed, though by the time of this book he felt it was a lie and a cheat to imagine that the road he personally had taken would lead to anything but ruin.
As far as I can tell, the only line in the song's lyric that comes from Big Sur is the title/chorus ("one fast move or I'm gone"), but all the other words ring true to the Kerouac I see in my mind's eye after having read seven of his novels and (a long time ago) Ann Charters' biography.
And, I think, it's when his prose strives to convey the bedrock loneliness of the human condition—or at least his condition—that it really takes off to a place beyond ultimately predictable descriptions of what it feels like to be on the passenger side of car expertly driven at breakneck speeds.Having decided to read Big Sur, I went online and bought a used copy of the original 1963 Bantam Books paperback edition (original cover price-75¢!).
On the Road is awesome and I love it's exuberance for life and experience, but it's ultimately a book of youth- all go go go without a thought or consideration of others or consequences.
and Big Sur is the cliff that Kerouac jumps right off full speed with his eyes open.
Big Sur is a crack-up book and it shows how Kerouac lost his mind to alcohol.
In this book, Kerouac describes his regimin of drinking in painful detail, and still manages to sound somewhat go go go ish in boyish On the Road terms.
As I said to someone on my way out, "I just need to not talk to anybody for a little bit."So I grabbed Big Sur, not knowing exactly what it was about.I bombed the curves of Big Sur, passing people I shouldn't have passed.
Read Big Sur under the night sky with the full moon rising over the Santa Lucias.
It was meant to happen in Big Sur, where the ocean is bigger than your problems, the redwoods are older than your family, and the mountains are higher than your state of being.It was the perfect time, the perfect visit, the perfect setting for me to finally read Big Sur and to reacquaint myself with Kerouac.
It is very helpful to know which characters refer to specific people.The focus is on the "beat scene" in and around San Francisco.A key difference in this book compared to his others, Jack, creates his alter-ego as a successful author, well known to the public.
Jack harbors a lot of unfulfilled desire to be a "family man" the "pater familiias" or as he often states "the He-Man" but he knows he can't live that dream because of alcohol.We get to see Jack in solitude (at the cabin in Big Sur), in San Francisco, in domestic scenes with friends' families.
ok i still have a few pages left of jack's drunken manic breakdown, but i have to say that i am just not impressed with kerouac, at least not based on what i've read.
i read on the road years ago, and all i really remember is that i wasn't significantly impressed with it, and i couldn't get past his misogyny.
And now, 20 years later, I feel the same way.
brilliant?
but if he was so brilliant, why was his opinion of women so low?
Kerouac struggles with the knowledge that he is trash as a human, and also trash as a writer.He tries to get away to one of the most gorgeous locations in North America, but he trashes it up with his trashy tag-along acquaintances.End of the book includes grotesque, obscene hallucinations, child abuse, and an absolutely terrible poem.I enjoyed the first 30-40%, because it looked like the author was finding himself in nature, becoming obsessed with the sea and trying to learn its crashy swishy language.
Seems like Jack Kerouac was an easygoing, talented guy.
And meanwhile fame ate away at him.
I feel that reading Big Sur at this specific time in my life was an excellent choice being that many of the topics Kerouac touches on in this work are the same as those I've been mentally wrestling with in the past several months, i.e. human interconnectedness, role of love in the chaos of life, relationship between the living and the dead, symbolism in nature, human incapability to fully comprehend/empathise with other humans, and the list goes on.
Kerouac's writing style, stream of conscious, was thought provoking.
In a way, it's led me to see my own mind from a different perspective.
A world weary Kerouac seeks a physical and spiritual retreat...I so wish he would have found both and stayed with us a little longer.
At first, he seeks this peace in nature, but when the demons start closing in again, he runs back to the city hoping to find some much needed distraction from the death and insanity he's beginning to see everywhere he looks.
No, here, readers will find a raw, powerful, gritty, poetic story about a highly flawed man's inability to find solace anywhere he turns and his inevitable break from reality, which is so brilliantly written, it's hard to believe that he could ever come back from it to write such a beautiful book.
Jack was considered a revolutionist, a pioneer; the man who rebelled against society’s prudish morals, whose lust for life made him a legend.In Big Sur the reader witnesses how wrong the public opinion was about him.
Older now, and depended on alcohol, Kerouac sought solace from people’s expectations of him, in his friend’s cabin in Big Sur, only to deteriorate faster into madness.“All over America high school and college kids thinking "Jack Duluoz is 26 years old and on the road all the time hitch hiking" while there I am almost 40 years old, bored and jaded in a roomette bunk crashin across that Salt Flat.”Big Sur isn’t an easy book to read, nor a great one.
Well, this book starts off quite interestingly, with Kerouac apparently aiming to write his own version of Henry David Thoreau's Walden.
However, at some point not too far into this book, he lapses back into his On the Road persona, interspersing accounts of car journeys with accounts of drinking bouts and generally disappearing up his own backside whenever he thinks he's being philosophical.
While his friend Cody has settled down with a family and a job, Kerouac is trying to recapture their youthful enthusiasm for bumming around and talking shite.
As a recovering alcoholic myself, I found I could relate to his story, as I can also to Kerouac's life.
As he descended into alcoholism he could no longer write with any real coherence, and became an obnoxious fool who was no longer taken seriously anywhere, and was no longer wanted anywhere, not even in his hometown of Lowell, Massachusetts.
In fact he is probably the worst alcoholic famous writer we have ever had.
That said, this story of his life right after the fame of "On the Road" is vividly portrayed and honest.
At the end of the book Kerouac seems to recover, momentarily, for his next adventure.
A great book about the demons of Jack Kerouac.
If the reader doesn’t know anything about Kerouac and/or had never read any of this books, this novel will not have the same meaning.
As we know now, he really looked at himself as more of an author than a leader of the beatniks and would rather had people read his books than idolize him as the paragon of beatnik ways…ala drinking, womanizing, traveling and partying.
He seems to act like a bit of a jerk in the book but he’s totally aware of it.
The sea seems to yell to me GO TO YOUR DESIRE DON'T HANG AROUND HERE -- For after all the sea must be like God, God isn't asking us to mope and suffer and sit by the sea in the cold at midnight for the sake of writing down useless sounds, he gave us the tools of self reliance after all to make it straight thru bad life mortality towards Paradise maybe I hope...
This is Kerouac at his sincerest and most human.
In this book, we encounter Jack Kerouac reflecting on his success from On the Road, and desperate for an escape from the lifestyle that he's created for himself.
Unwittingly, Kerouac provides his readers precisely what he himself is seeking: an escape from the pressures of outward life and a raw look at the inward psyche.
A pleasure to read, more balanced than Kerouac's other words (that I've read) with Jack's "beatnik antics" countered by lush descriptions of his seclusion in Big Sur. Highly recommended to those looking to escape in literature.
No one, and I mean no one, writes alcoholic horror better than Jack. This book is powerful for those of us who have fought the demon. Jack, of course, succumbed to it and this savagely beautiful work was simply a precursor.
It's all fun and games till it ain't, this is the ain't part, the "Duluoz" crack-up novel installment set pinballing from San Francisco to Big Sur back an forth and peopled by the usual suspects of Beat Gen. notables, but really it's a mostly dyad between Dulouz, the Big Sur location and the sea in particular, that mix of devils brew, a tempest that threatens his will to go on.
Booze will kill you eventually and it did for Kerouac, but not before he'd amassed a respectable oeuvre of personal novels all electroning around the nucleus of "On The Road" like sentinels guarding the ju ju so the bop won't flop an pinwheel off into the gawping maw of samsara again annagain.
But really it was never about nirvana now wassit?
So far, too flowery/romancticy language (the sea can't talk to you asshole, it's water; put down the bottle...).
What is all this talk about ghosts, what a fuckin' hippie...and these vague references to other literary figures to make us think he is cultured and not a drunk dick...The writing is weak and flimsy right now.
The writing is what you would suspect from a drunk hippie: weak stabs at profound thought scattered with spurts of storyline not following any clear, coherent thought nor plot (much like this review)...
I am sure at one time running around looking like Jesus, smelling flowers, and talking about a Zen like life was considered "radical".
I read this book today to celebrate Ti Jean's eighty-ninth birthday and to say "thank you" to the first guy who really inspired me to write."Big Sur" is a roman a clef, an all-too-true story of a man haunted by the wrong kind of fame.
"On the Road" has hit disenfranchised post-war American youth like a tsunami of lava and all of a sudden newspaper reporters and misguided opportunists want to pigeonhole its author, our hero, as a long-haired twenty-year old king beatnik.
But when I read “Sur” this time I was aware of more tension boiling under the surface than I remembered (Man vs.
Instead, Big Sur is the hangover to On The Road's glorious golden binge.
But it's the early 60's and his book On The Road has gotten him crowned King Of The Beats; naturally, this does not solve problems as much as it creates them.
Dean Moriarty, aka Cody Pomeray, enters the picture, but whereas in OTR Dean was the sparking mainspring that spurred Sal Paradise onward and upward (with a little help from his auntie, of course), here he's pushing 40 just like Jack, trying to maintain his family despite his continued foibles and flaws.
Never quite unable to outrun the DT's, Jack makes one last trip to Big Sur with his companions, and there, as he puts it, "sees the Cross".
If it had not been important he would not have become so famous.But in Big Sur, he paints the life of an author ruined by fame, having a major identity crisis, and driving himself deeper and deeper into depression.
Even more then the wonder of this writer who could so vividly write the experience.Throughout the novel he alludes to a breakdown he had, while telling of all the weeks leading up to it, as he careens back and forth from a cabin in Big Sur to San Francisco, from solitude to being surrounded by people, from moments when he transcends his existential anguish to the depths of depression.
Certainly not an ability that promotes a stable or happy life.
The first time I read this I thought I would also have a three week bender when my cat died.
But now I've quit drinking instead I decided to re-read this and see Kerouac's grief about loosing his cat.
This time the horror of the bender didn't seem as terrifying as the awfulness of the people he ended up on it with.
I think the shorter time period of the book, barely more than a month, suited his style well as he was able to go into much more depth.
The basic story was about an alcoholic 3 week bender he had after his cat died.
My ratings for several books are based on how I felt about them when I read them. Several books that I loved/"really liked" I don't feel similarly about any longer, to put as simply and as fairly as possible. Kerouac is probably a perfect example of this. I loved reading about the melancholy psychological and geographical wanderings of Mr. Kerouac and his friends when I was 15 years old. It spoke to me in that way that people will describe books like  On The Road  and Catcher in the Rye as speak
Several books that I loved/"really liked" I don't feel similarly about any longer, to put as simply and as fairly as possible.
I loved reading about the melancholy psychological and geographical wanderings of Mr. Kerouac and his friends when I was 15 years old.
I can still remember how pleasurable and edifying it was to read these books but I remember it with varying levels of self-embarassment and hesitate to leap straight into that lukewarm pool of sentimentality concerning these books and the cluttered feelings and memories they invoke.
And I hesitate, and continue...

I really wanted to give it two stars out of some residual reverence for Kerouac I still have. But no. Just no. This is, to me, Kerouac at his worst; his novels usually are much more plot- and character-driven, and this book demonstrates how crucial these two things are to his prose. In Big Sur, he turns his mirror on himself, and boy, what a woeful spectacle this is. Ignore for your own good, unless you are a relentless completist.
the delerium tremens after the party - bleak, despairing, claustrophobic, and frightening, the yin to "on the road"'s yang. this is the aesthetic line in the sand where the lantern-jawed, photogenic, exultant kerouac of the 40s and 50s meets the boozy reactionary mama's boy shut-in of the 60s.in short, the other side of the coin.
