https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421886.Lisa_Bright_and_Dark
I first picked up this book when I was a teenager for no other reason than...yes, she shares my name. When I read the back and discovered it's plot, about a girl that is psychologically troubled, to put it mildly, I was hooked. I've always been interested in stories where the character has a serious illness or problems. I've read countless books about girls with cancer, girls who have drug problems, girls who've been raped, and like 3 where the girl had cancer. Depressing, I know.
Sixteen year old Lisa is calling for help but no adult is willing to help her so her friends come to her rescue.
This book was written in 1969, so as a reader you have to consider the circumstances and the characters do the best they can to be the therapists that Lisa needs.
The book is told through the eyes of one of Lisa’s best friend, Betsy and we feel the emotions and the story unfold as the friends draw together towards a common goal.
When someone is trying to connect to you, are you listening?
Meh. Lots of novels from the 1960's and 1970's hold up, albeit in a nostalgic and kitschy way. This one most definitely did not though. Everything about it was ridiculous, from Lisa's manifestation of mental illness, to her friends, to the adults to the writing. Speaking of which, the writing was all tell and absolutely no show. If this had ever been made into a cheesy movie, that is a movie I would absolutely love to see. But the novel version is simply bad and painful beyond words. Skip this one.
This was much better than I was expecting. Surprising that it's written by a man because it really reads like teenage girls. Even though this was written in the late 60's it holds up well, I think. The frustration that Lisa and her friends feel at the lack of concern for Lisa's mental state is the driving force of this book. It was hard not to get caught up in the ticking time bomb that was Lisa's mental state. The story wraps up a little too neatly but that's not surprising since this is YA, before there even was YA.
It's my feeling that if teachers, clergy members, and friends all noticed that a teen they knew was having mental health problems, a myriad of counselors and resources would be provided for her, even if the parents didn't fully cooperate.
This is probably a more empathetic position for most teens, but also makes the reader think about their own responsibilities to their friends and peers and the ways in which she might seek out help for a friend in a similar situation.
I'm amazed at how 3 teens could take on the huge problem of mental illness in an effort to help their clearly sick friend.
I think the novel reflects the time of its writing and setting accurately and has to be taken within that context.Is it a good YA book for today's teens?
I think if it is taught or read together with someone who can explain some things it is good.
WE get from this novel that Lisa appreciates Betsy's honesty and the efforts of her friends and WANTS help.
I work in a library, and we don't carry this book.
I've looked for it in every library I've been in across the country, and there are very few that do carry it, so I'm glad to see it available on Kindle.
The writing is wonderful, and Neufeld understands teenage mental illness.
When my daughter was a teenager (she is now 23) I tried to find it for her to read, but was unable to get my hands on a copy.
Now, it's a little under her radar, but I hope she'll read it anyway.
I want to re-read it, too.
Was reminded of it the other day after spotting a similar book (I Never Promised You a Rose Garden) at a book exchange.
But for some reason when I think of this book, I think of swimming at the wave pool in town.
I read this book over a few days one summer when I was spending a lot of time at the pool.
I distinctly remember coming home from the pool and reading this book with the smell of chlorine still in my nose ad the sting of it in my eyes and the sensation of treading water still "ghosting" in my legs.
Upon her parent's knowledge, neither of them believed Lisa's madness to be anything other than stress for exams and the end of the year, satisfied by sending her to Florida to recover for six weeks instead of getting her any kind o help.Once she returned, the girls begin making plans of secret therapy sessions for Lisa.
As Elizabeth pulled some strings to get Lisa help, an old friend of her comes from upstate to lend some help to The madness Lisa faces.Dr. Donovan, a psychologists, tries to save Lisa, by finally getting her parents to see the pain only Tracy, Lisa's younger sister could seem to grasp.
Lisa, Bright and Dark The book I reviewed is Lisa, Bright and Dark by John Neufeld. The book is a fiction/drama story and The theme is friendship.  It’s about a sixteen-year-old girl losing her mind but nobody wants to believe her. She tried to tell her parents but they didn’t want to hear it. Lisa started to have two personalities. People in her school called it good and bad days or bright and dark days. On her bright days she would act normal. On Dark days she would wear dark clothing and not
Betsey went to go talk to Mr.Berstein, he didn’t want to have anything to do with telling Lisa’s parents that Lisa was going crazy because thy might think he was trying to them how to raise Lisa.
My favorite scene in this book was when nobody would help Lisa but then Mary Nell decided that enough was enough and did what she had to do.
Lisa’s best friend Mary Nell and the school staff have all tried to talk to her about it but her parents still didn’t want to believe it.
I really don't know if a dude was the best person to write about a 16 year old girl on the brink of insanity.
Was this dude studying like Patty Duke or something.
The story mentions that movie (with Elizabeth Taylor in it) and they totally sold me on it.
I actually went to my local libary (where I get most of my books from.
I would totally rec it to anyone who is just curious and really any girly over the age of 13.
i guess someone like my dad might but I don't think my son would.All in all..
it was a very nice book for that day and age.
In 1969, if a student had a complete breakdown on schoolgrounds, a lot more would have happened than this book would have you believe.
I was also really set back by Neufeld's cavalier use of the word "rape." He then immediately explained it by saying it also means "to seize," so it's okay to say.
Basically, I'm just not at all impressed with Neufeld or his book, which never really says what Lisa is suffering from, and just sort of vaguely talks about her problem.
Better books have been written about characters suffering from mental instability, and this one is really just too dated and watered down.
This book is my favorite because it's a story about friends who help each other even in the most darkest of times.
Even though she reached out to her family like many times in a teenagers life they feel they aren't heard represented or given a voice even when they need help despretly and for Lisa , she was lucky euogh to have support from her best friends even though none of them knew what would become if Lisa and her future ince they were able to finally convince her parents to send her to a specialist after multiple attempts of suicide and seldndestruction.
Having depression isn't easy, and seeking help for your illness is even more difficult.
Dealing with the highs and lows of depression can take a toll on your friends, especially when you somehow get violent.
If truth be told, you can't help it, the violent outbursts.
There's no reason for depression; it just is.
It's a hormonal imbalance, not seeking attention.
It could take years, and even if you do recover, there are relapses.Lisa's story is an inspiration to anyone who's gone through and is still going through mental illnesses.
It's truly brave of Lisa to seek help.
Shit. This book was so damn beautiful. And dark. And HAUNTING. And oh so rightfully humorous in some. It took me to places, thoughts, bright and dark. I'll probably be left drifting in a Lisa, bright and dark hangover now. Sure won't forget about it anytime soon. It really touched and spoke to me. God bless you John Neufeld. :*
Dated, obviously, but it feels very genuine and honest.
Why didn't I find this book in high school? It's Judy Blume for the weirdo set. It reads a little bit dated, but still a universal idea.
This was one of the very first young adult/teen novels I ever read. I was in 7th grade. All these years later I remember it as touching me deeply.
Her friends try to help; ultimately even her teachers believe there is something wrong, but her parents continue to do nothing as her illness progresses and she continues to cry, and act, out for help.The book is definitely dated.
And, again in most states, a lawyer/advocate is assigned to a patient immediately upon commitment, so the drastic action Lisa takes would be unnecessary - but in the 1960's, that wasn't the case.
And the dating also works in Lisa's favor; in the United States, long term care for most mentally ill no longer exists.
They agree to seek help and things start to turn around for the better.I read this as a young adult, I think when I was in middle school, and the one thing I remember the most is a scene toward the end, the scene that finally gets Lisa's parents to pay attention to her mental illness and cries for help.
Lisa does seem to hear voices, sometimes she talks in different voices too, she does not sleep and she gets very angry at inappropriate times.Betsy, M.N. and Elizabeth, all teen girls in the same grade as Lisa, join together to help their friend.
Fantastic book! Mental illness is something of a stigma now, but it was far worse in the 70s. Lisa, Bright and Dark portrays a teenager descending into severe mental illness, while her parents either ignore her or scoff at her cries for help. Only her three friends see what's happening, and try to help her. I loved this book when I first read it in the 70s. Perhaps I saw a bit of myself in Lisa.
Lisa has bright days, where she is her normal outgoing and happy self, and dark days, which you are lead to believe are terrifying and demonstrate Lisa’s descent into madness.
Instead her dark days read more like normal teenage exploration into self, where she comes out little more than “goth” or “emo”, but far from dangerous, depressed, or insane.
The result being that my experience was more like reading a case-study, written by a very inexperienced psychology student, when what I wanted was to descend into madness with Lisa and find the rescue we both so desperately needed.
I also think it would have helped if I'd recognized more than half of the actors and actresses that the narrator talked about obsessively, but to be fair it's hard to write a novel that both references pop-culture and ages well.
The resolution of the main plot worked for the most part, but the "here's where my life is headed now" final sentences felt really trivial and bizarre.But it did capture some important concepts and moments and probably helped blaze a trail for many of the better-done contemporary YA novels dealing with difficult issues, so good on Lisa and Neufeld.
She is misogynistically written to the point that she could never pass for a person - both in the way she talks, the way her character is developed, and so on.I also think the book should not have been told from her perspective - the introduction was super confusing not knowing who the characters were, and telling a story of mental illness from a neurotypical point of view came off as very privileged.
This book was probably very good, and perhaps even revolutionary, in its time (it was published in 1969).
In 2018, this book feels extraordinarily dated and just plain strange.
I'm not a huge fan of "cure" novels and *spoiler alert* when Lisa (who has some unidentified illness, most likely bipolar disorder) goes away to a mental hospital, her friends are assured that Lisa will come back and be just like she was before the "terrible thing" (her illness) began.
I did feel like this book was enjoyable to read, and like I said, if read in the proper context, it was probably a big step forward for mental health, but ultimately, this one fell a little flat for me.
Lisa, Bright and Dark, written by John Neufeld, was a book about a girl named Lisa who was suffering from multiple personality disorder. Since Lisa's parents and the school refused to get Lisa help, her three closest friends set out to try to learn about and administer psychotherapy to help her. After half way through the book, you know all you need to guess the 'most predictable' ending, and the book ends just like you thought. I didn't like it, because I don't like predictable books. I wouldn't recommend this book unless you like following a very traditional plot.
I had friends but none of them were close enough to try to "solve" something serious and difficult as a mental illness.
And the reaching out most likely has been happening all along and been rebuffed so much that despair sets in and the adolescent stops believing that any help will come.
Is it really hard to write that story, or is that just so negative that no one wants to believe it and would rather be slurping the sop that is pumped out like most ChickLit series?
So when I saw it at a used book store, I had to get it because I remembered loving it.I enjoyed it again, but after reading it this time around I realized how outdated the story really is.
Instead, we see everything that happens to Lisa from an aquaintance who gets a bit more involved as the story unfolds.Although I want to say I recommend this book to everyone, I'm not too sure if many YA readers will like it because it was written for teens in the late sixties.
So, it makes it a bit harder to really connect with the characters and enjoy the story.
Lisa, bright and dark was written in 1969 by John Neufeld.
The story was about the desperate attempt of three schoolmates to make Lisa's parents realize that Lisa had mental issues.
Her parents don't want to believe there is anything wrong with their child.
Lisa herself is aware and very frightened.
The three girls decide they must help if other adults are not willing to get involved.
When this story was written, mental health issues were probably more pushed under the carpet and not discussed.
The storyline was interesting as I found myself frustrated because no one wanted to risk getting involved.
I read this book as a young teen and just thought it was sooooo good.
I'm glad to say MANY moons later that I still think it's a good book, just maybe not sooooo good but yeah pretty decent.Lisa is in the beginning stages of a mental disorder.
even back then when this book was written 60's and you know it's WAY worse these days.
