https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13707659-summer-lightning
goodreads tells me i've now read seventeen wodehouse books, with sixteen of those being novels and short stories -- the other is a wonderful collection i can only highly recommend, called Wodehouse On Wodehouse that is part memoir of his time writing for musical theatre, and partly selected letters, and also part sort-of autobiography.
but i'm coming to terms that i have certain favourites and that wodehouse has a cast of archetypes for his fiction, and depending on which set you read first, you might take on a preference.
For less than the price of a cup of English tea:Each book that PG writes, proffers hours and hours of delightful entertainment.This accomplished and sophisticated writer always delivers.Highbrow, erudite comedic writing is difficult to summit even once.And yet, Mr. Wodehouse is a singular Sherpa in this vocation.A tip of my ‘bowler’ to you, again, sir.
I'm only as reliable as Lord Emsworth when it comes to judging which among Wodehouses's numbers is his best, but I believe this one is right up there among his finest. As if Lord Emsworth, Hon Galahad and the efficient Baxter weren't enough material, there were atleast a dozen other weapons of mass amusement that were thrown in for good measure, on the whole building up enough ammunition to take eons of pent up stress to the cleaners.
Would not be surprised if that was the intention here.It seems my enjoyment of the Blandings stories is partly dependent on the characters of the [usually young] people staying at the house and causing havoc.
His cousin Millicent is worryingly jealous too, but I found her likeable otherwise (it was her reading Schopenhauer whilst broken-hearted that sealed it) and at least she displays no inclination to fly off the handle and punch people.I am relieved to see that Ronnie does not appear in many other books.
For one thing it recognizes comedy as art and as such not to be viewed lightly, however much it entertains.
For another, constant exposure to the medium has the effect of reducing one’s susceptibility to the comic influence through immunity thus allowing for greater objectivity in viewing what has facilitated our mirth.These are both important for me.
Reading the actual Wodehouse books now, I see they are even better than the film series.
Several audio versions I have listened to recently enhance the experience due to expert readers.In Summer Lightning, Wodehouse really sizzles.
Wodehouse disclaims writing about ‘real life’, preferring to poke fun at it—at us.
The Blandings Castle books are often overshadowed by the more popular Jeeves and Wooster series, but deserve a visit in their own right. As is true of most Wodehouse, the zaniest of machinations fail, then succeed, true love wins in the end, and the aristocracy bumble their way through life saved only by the wisdom from the service class. Very enjoyable characters and strong writing throughout. Very, very funny.
"The object of all good literature is to purge the soul of its petty troubles." (191)The essence of Wodehouse as described by the man himself.
Cu personaje şi intrigi dense şi colorate, fir epic bogat şi mult dialog, acest volum scris aproape în întregime în manieră dramaturgică mi-a dat senzaţia, încă de la prima pagină, că îl citesc pe Moliere.Lectură uşoară şi amuzantă, ideală pentru vacanţă. De citit şi celelalte volume din serie.
Will his best friend and partner in a recently failed London nightclub, Hugo Carmody, succeed in his new role as Clarence’s assistant and successfully woo Millicent Threepwood, Clarence’s niece, even as Constance strongly disapproves?When Clarence’s prized pig the Empress of Blandings goes missing, his rival for the title of Shropshire’s Agricultural Show fattest pig competition, Sir Gregory Parsloe-Parsloe, seems the most obvious suspect.
Although there were a few books at the time of its publication with the same title, this one fulfills Wodehouse’s “modest hope that this story will be considered worthy of inclusion in the list of the Hundred Best Books Called Summer Lightening.” It certainly is.With all the horrendous noise coming out of Washington these days, I have a feeling I’ll be revisiting Wodehouse a few more times this year.
Summer Lightning is one of Wodehouse's Blandings Castle series, a series which is slowly replacing Jeeves & Wooster in my affections.Most of the stories in the Blandings Castle series use the same plot devices: a broken engagement (or two), an imposter (or two), and the kidnapping of Lord Emsworth's pig, the Empress of Blandings.
Wodehouse gets a lot of mileage out of the old formula but it never fails.Hugo Carmody and Ronnie Fish both end up on the outs with their ladies.
When the Empress turns up missing, Percy Pilbeam ends up on the case.If you like Wodehouse, you'll love Summer Lightning.
2.5 stars for this audiobook edition (review below); 4 stars for the book itself.I was disappointed that I couldn't find a Jonathan Cecil narration of this second book in the Blandings series (GR includes the Psmith books in the Blandings series but I prefer the Fantastic Fiction" organization of Wodehouse's books).
John Wells was truly terrible in his choice of voices for these characters, making Lord Emsworth sound like a petulant teenaged girl, his niece Millicent talk with a lisp, and other sundry affronts to my ear.
Luckily, after getting over my shock, I found that I could mostly ignore most of that and get lost in the wonderful silliness of a Wodehouse plot.
Absolutely wonderful. It's my first Wodehouse novel since I finished the Jeeves books and it didn't disappoint, it's just as hilarious and lovely. I very much enjoyed the language in this, as well as the characters (going so far as growing very fond of a pig). Great stuff, I'm so happy I finally stepped into Blandings!
It was going to be a three-star, but after those last few chapters, with Lord Emsworth brandishing a gun, Baxter under the bed and people generally sprinting in all directions through the halls of Blandings, I had to tack on the fourth. :)
If you've forgotten (or sadly have never known) what it's like to read something smartly light and funny and delightful give this little piggie a go.
Perfect book for lazy Sundays, warm afternoon and, lots and lots of tea.Light, funny, tongue in cheek, witty and absolutely hilarious.
Re-read as audio book.
Ideală pentru vacanță.
When the Empress disappears, Lord Emsworth dispatches a telegram to Pilbeam, a tabloid writer turned private detective.
Gally's memoirs will dredge up old scandals that respectable people, like Emsworth's neighbor, Sir Gregory Parsloe-Parsloe, would rather forget.
Lord Emsworth's sister, Lady Constance, engages her brother's former secretary Baxter to steal the manuscript for her.
My favorite characters are Lord Emsworth and Baxter.
Lord Emsworth is such a fool and Baxter is a good foil for him.
I liked Hugh better than Ronnie.
I liked Sue best because she is nice and seems smart.
She's too nice for Ronnie and too smart for Hugo.
After writing ‘Leave it to Psmith’ Wodehouse had written a series of magazine stories based on the Threepwood family which had clearly given him the confidence to use them as the major players in a novel.In his preface to the book Wodehouse takes the criticism of his previous novel ‘Money for Nothing’ that it contained ‘all the old Wodehouse characters under different names’ with typical good humour, writing ‘He has probably now been eaten by bears, like the children who made mock of the prophet Elisha: but if he still survives he will not be able to make a similar charge against Summer Lightning.
It was that gracious hour of a summer afternoon, midway between luncheon and tea, when nature seems to unbutton its waistcoat and put its feet up.I mean, just picture that, will you?And for those who have yet to sample Wodehousian fare, here's an extract from the book's preface:A certain critic -- for such men, I regret to say, do exist -- made the nasty remark about my last novel that it contained 'all the old Wodehouse characters under different names.' He has probably by now been eaten by bears, like the children who made mock of the prophet Elisha: but if he still survives he will not be able to make a similar charge against Summer Lightning.
With my superior intelligence, I have out-generalled the man this time by putting in all the old Wodehouse characters under the same names.
it always used to annoy me when people would talk about Jeeves and Wodehouse and how witty they were, and it just sounded soooo pretentious and Anglophile and all. But then I heard an audiotape of one of the Jeeves books (Jonathan Cecil is the best), and I became one of those people because Wodehouse is just hilariously, deliriously funny in a kind of screwball way that never feels icky & isn't precious at all. I love "Summer Lightning" for its amazing characters, including The Empress of Blandings--who is, of course, a pig.
So much love for Wodehouse! I've actually only ever read one Wodehouse book, and it was a Jeeves and Wooster. I much preferred this one, actually, probably because it was not so much isolated episodes as it was a real novel. The characters are, of course, completely stereotypical, especially Lady Constance and Lord Emsworth, but when written in Wodehouse style, they become completely fresh and hilarious again. And I'll say it again--enormous pigs called the Empress of Blandings are always, always funny.
"Nevertheless, it seemed to me that they, like you, lacked vision, This pig, you see, is a prize pig. Don't picture to yourself something with a kink in its tail sporting idly in the mud. Imagine, rather, a favourite daughter kidnapped from her ancestral home. This is heavy stuff, I assure you. Restore the animal in time for the Agricultural Show and you may ask of Lord Emsworth what you will, even unto half his kingdom."
Any book that can make you laugh at loud multiple times is a winner. I loved this book. Dad has tried to get me to read Wodehouse stories for a while now, but I only just got around to it. Wodehouse is ingeniously funny and his complex tale of the lives of members of the idle British nobility keeps you guessing and laughing the whole way through. The preface alone should sell any reader on his humor. I will be reading MUCH more P.G. Wodehouse, definitely. Would highly recommend!
Hilarious!
One of Plum's best, with mistaken identities, stolen prize pigs, resentful ex-secretaries, and a private detective with a deplorable mustache. Simply delightful.
Add to this an efficient but definitely eccentric Baxter trying to win back his old job at Blandings, and one has the makings of a pleasant read that lasts for about three hundred pages and does what you would expect it to with its winsome look at town and country and the lives of delightfully odd people.It is almost irresistible to ponder some of the leitmotifs of the novel as they relate to the wider context of the author's work as a whole.
Oh man what a fun it’s to read/ hear a wodehouse book, I heard the bbc radio Audio version of this book but it in no way was less than reading it myself.It was a pure joy listening to this book.
The plot as usual was surrounding empress and had all the flavours of a wodehouse comedy.Lord Emsworth, Galahad, baxter, carmody, Ronnie, Sue were all superb in their scenes and what else can we ask forWhile majority of wodehouse fans rate jeeves Bertie as best of wodehouse for me it’s always blandings above jeeves .
There is something infectious about blandings which makes me love these stories and don’t mind reading them repeatedly....Would highly recommend this book to all
My first Wodehouse without Jeeves and Wooster. I missed them.This is a funny book. But the lack of Jeeves is painful. But I still enjoy PGW.
So much fun! Lots of misunderstandings leading to a lot of hilarity. Just what I needed for an escape from the real world. Love Wodehouse's way with words.
