https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2329272.Tarzan_Lord_of_the_Jungle
This was another good Tarzan novel.It starts out great, with a hunting party lead by two men moving through Africa.
There's also an evil group of slave traders moving through the jungle.
However, Tarzan novels have to be a little complicated.As I've started in prior reviews, in Tarzan's Africa you can't throw a stick without hitting a long lost undiscovered civilization.
In this novel, it's a group of British knights who've been lost in Africa since the crusades.
So we end up with another plot twist.Overall, Tarzan really had a small part in this novel, which was surprising.
But if you enjoy Tarzan novels, you'll like this one.
Mistakenly read this out of sequence, but didn't ruin anything. ERB should have named this An American On Safari in King Arthur's Court. Tarzan is almost secondary to the Jim Blake character who gets lost in the jungle and ends up in a valley occupied by Crusading Knights lost for 750 years. Still, the story is filled with ERB's patented action and adventure and obligatory beautiful princess the hero falls for, loses, and et cetera. A fun read.

Only Edgar Rice Burroughs could put this crazy story together, and be able to wrap it up in 190 pages. Lots of fun.
I thought this was better than the last Tarzan I read (#10) but not as good as some of the others. I started losing interest about halfway through. Still a fun adventure though.
This is actually the first Tarzan book I ever read, very long ago. I still have a soft spot for it, but also it was just incredibly imaginative. Really one of the strongest offerings in the series.
This has been my night time no-thought book lately. I had read many of his John Carter of Mars books as a kid, but this was my first Tarzan. Fairly well written. Fun book, and I'll definitely pick up another during my thrifts.
Ods bodikins! Tarzan goes medieval! Anachronisms abound but the Lord of the Jungle is as always equal to the occasion. Cameo appearance in the nick of time by Jad-bal-ja the Golden Lion, with capable back-up from Tarzan's famous Waziri warriors.
In a hidden valley, we discover a medieval society of English knights , descendants of shipwrecked crusaders. There are two Americans who get involved with the plot. A story only Edgar Rice Burroughs could pull off.
My only complaint about this one is that there wasn't nearly enough Tarzan, otherwise this was a great turnaround from the mess of the last book. I'm bumping its rating up to five stars just because it's that much better than #10.
Even though the Tarzan stories are over 60 years old they remain timeless. These books are fantastic reading. These books make all the movies and cartoons seem meaningless. Highly recommended
Again Tarzan gets knocked in the head which starts all the trouble.
This group ended up have a falling out and split up resulting in both Americans separately getting lost.All of them (plus Tarzan) end up one way or another in the land of Nimmr where they discover a remnant of Crusaders who have no idea the Holy War is over.Footnote: 1) The way people in this series keep running into each other you’d think it was a small country instead of a large continent.Fave scenes: Tantor’s rescue, Stimbol’s reactions to Tarzan, Guinalda walking the horse and the princess & the golden lion.
Pretty fun easy read.
When I read them back in the day I didn't have to suspend as much disbelief or marvel at the overt sexism and racism.
As always I still find Edgar Rice Burroughs writing economical and entertaining with just enough big, made up, old spellings or out of date words to keep me defining and using the dictionary.
Still could not find a definition for "anachror" I suspect it's one of Burroughs made up contractions, but I love that word so much and kind of describes the book perfectly.
En un mot Trop. Trop de rebondissements, trop de personnages, trop de n’importe quoi, trop vite. C’est divertissant mais c’est pas terrible
ভাল লেগেছে।
Blake and the knights in shining armor stuff was a nice touch, but this one, like the Janeless middle books of the series, is otherwise the same old same old generic formula. Entertaining, but you've passed this way before.
This one returned to the normal length of the books.
Tarzan in a suit of armor, wow.
That is really hard to visualize.
It was quite entertaining, though, just the thought of it.
Also, Tarzan isn't as proficient with the sword as he is with other weapons.
Who would have thought?
Edgar Rice Burroughs fell into sort of a pattern with his secondary character who falls in love with girl from a lost civilization, but I really didn't mind.
It was fun seeing the medieval era.
Also, nobody messes with Tarzan when they're on his African estates.
Read this one in the 80s and again in 1998. Great Tarzan adventure.
Edgar Rice Burroughsin "Tarzan, viidakon herra" (Karisto, 1945) on niitä kirjoja, jotka olen lukenut viimeksi joskus neljännesvuosisata sitten, mutta lukiessani tajusin muistavani tapahtumat edelleen varsin hyvin.
Burroughs on varsin taloudellinen kirjailija, sillä tämä kaikki mahdutetaan noin 250 sivuun.Ei kai tämä poliittisesti korrekteinta nuortenkirjallisuutta ole, eikä ollut silloin kuin kirjaan ensimmäisen kerran tartuin, mutta eipä tuosta tainnut kamalasti huonoja vaikutteita tarttua.
Kai sitä pikemminkin toivoi, että voisi olla jonakin päivänä samanlainen kuin kirjan päähenkilöt: nähdä maailmaa, kokea hurjia seikkailuja, tehdä sankarillisia tekoja ja voittaa kauniin tytön sydän omakseen.No, sitten minusta tuli kirjastovirkailija.
Kai se sekin on osittain tämän kirjan ansiota!
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
One of the highlights of the later Tarzan books. We are reminded of Tarzan, or rather Lord Greystoke's pedigree as he encounters an outpost of medieval English knights. An African English Lord and an American explorer at King Arthur's court. For those who want to see the Lord of the Jungle joust, even though he once again plays the sidekick for another young and promising person while he is there to offer support and protection.
I think this was perhaps the most enjoyable book of the series, that I have read so far. I can attribute this to my love of tales of Arthur, knights, chivalry, crusades, etc. Tarzan and knights. Who knew?!I was also amazed how many strands of story Burroughs could trace and somehow pull together in 191 pages! It was fun and enjoyable light read!
This Tarzan book's actually a good one compared to some other late arrivals of the series. Even though it was another one of those lost tribe flicks, this one was entertaining because it doesn't have any fancy monsters or dinosaurs. And more jungle , no ancient cities and long, never ending passages. I don't mind reading this type of Tarzan adventures at all
Tarzan, Lord Of The Jungle (Tarzan #11) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine 1927) (Fiction). Tarzan finds an outpost of European Knights Templar hidden in a forbidden jungle valley. Soon to attack: slave traders. My rating: 7/10, finished 1973.
This is easily the best Tarzan book since the original three that set the Tarzan world. I'm interested in finding out if any of the characters in the past eleven books will have parts in the next ones and I can only hope the rest of the Tarzan books were as good as this one.
read some time in 1977
Again Tarzan has escaped death and found treasure. He also was able to rescue and help two couples find love. So back to his home in the jungle and beloved Jane.
More of the heroic adventures of Tarzan. It involves Lost Crusaders, Arab Slave Traders, obtuse American Hunters, etc..
Adventure
Nuevos mundo se abren cuando las aventuras de Tarzán lo acercan a un valle olvidado por el tiempo y la sociedad medieval que acoge.
