https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136599.The_Silver_Spoon
The sewn binding gives it a sturdy feel that gives you the comfort that this book isn't going to fall apart if you use it very often--which I fully plan to do!First, I have to address complaints I saw in other reviews (I'm assuming they are for the older edition).
Some complained that even though they were well versed in making "Panna Cotta", this recipe didn't work.
I feel mortified to even admit it!) However, using the recipe from this book I was able to create a truly lovely "Panna Cotta" even tweaking the recipe a bit!
If you like to cook, and you like to cook authentic Italian home-style food, then this is the book for you.
You might not find the ingredients to some dishes, but don't let that stop you from buying this massive tome of Italian cookery.
Another way of saying, "your cooking sucks, learn how now?"Anyway, some of the dishes are obvious, others are eh, okay.
There is no other word for it.
And it's such a good word anyway.
Naughty women!I love this book.
If you cook, shell out the bucks and get it.
If you don't cook, save your money.
Good. Italian. Food. Most recipes have only a few ingredients but produce wonderful results. Beware of funny Italian -> English translations. For example "black cabbage" is not cabbage, it's kale! My favorite recipe involves baking eggs in custard dishes in with leeks sauteed in butter and nutmeg. The swiss chard ravioli with walnut pesto is also amazing. We consider opening our own restaurant each time we crack open this huge volume of authentic Italian dishes.
This book is F-A-N-T-A-S-T-I-C!!!
(And I'm the sort of girl who usually avoids cooking from recipes...) The directions are just detailed enough, without being absurd; everything I've tried (Strawberry Risotto, Glazed Radishes, Brased Beef with Barolo, Carrots with Rosemary, and the Penne Rigate in Vodka) has all been wonderful.
The only difficulty is that there's no "Pasta" section (rather odd, for an Italian cookbook), and most recipes make no mention of the prep/cook time (apparently "time" is immaterial in Italy)...
also, there's some ingredients that strike me as rather odd.
What, for instance, is a "chicken brick"?
The Italian version of this is often given to brides and is considered the "The Joy of Cooking" of Italy. So, the English language translation was eagerly awaited. This is one big book and I suppose you must have it. I use it more as a reference. The recipes are about three to a page, evidently assuming you know a lot by osmosis. It gives me an idea of what an authentic version would be, as opposed to the American restaurant-ization of a dish. Looks great on the coffee table.
I didn't know that Cantonese Fried Rice and Indonesian Fried rice are authentic Italian recipes in this 'bible of authentic Italian recipes' (to quote the cover). It doesn't even state which kind of soy sauce to use, which is a bit stating add vinegar without specifying which type. Now I'm off to check my Chinese cookbook for instructions on making a good risotto.
Absolutely one of the best "how to cook" almost anything. A great gift for a young person moving to their own place or a shower gift for a couple. Great photos, well-written, easy to follow. Bought it for my son for his new apartment.
One of my all time favorite cookbooks! This makes a great gift. Full of recipes but also quick bits of information. I use it often.
(And I can probably guess: it'll be - boil them in salt water, fry in olive oil for a bit, and put some damn delicious cheese nearby.
I'm tearing my hair out here.- This is why, I think, American cultural manifestations of "Italian cooking" are two-fold: the low end of false god Italian cooking (Olive Garden, spaghetti with meatballs) - i.e. stuff that doesn't actually exist in Italy - and the high end of $30 prosciutto slices at some snobby restaurant.
Invest in the quality of your ingredients (good olive oil, good mozzarella, fresh veg and good meat) if you have the means and you'll be fine.
I have perused the cookbook over the past week, leafing through the 1200 or so pages of 2000 or so recipes, gained a new respect for Italian and Mediterranean cooking, cooks and food afficianados.
There have been many reviewers unsatisfied with the poor translation of the recipes, giving poor measurements, descriptions, no food substitutions and so forth.
Sure, I've read and reviewed enough cookbooks to understand what the recipes are, the measurements, ingredients/substitutions, pots/pans, bowls, etc to finish the recipe.The sheer fact that an old Italian cookbook is available to the American public is mind-boggling!
And regardless of my dietary proclivities, I read the whole book, picking out recipes here and there to slavishly reproduce for my friends.
Perhaps it's a defect of my palate, but once I started behaving a bit more liberal with the conceits of the recipes, things got a lot better.
Overall, I'm glad I set aside a couple days this year to read a couple thousand pages about Italian cooking.
I'm sure I'll still be reaching for this book whenever I have general questions regarding the thrust of certain dishes.
If you want the definitive Italian cookbook this is it.
However, if you are someone who insists on photos of finished dishes alongside each recipe then this is not for you.
There are lighthearted line drawings throughout but this book, although a treat to read, does assume the user has at least a basic knowledge of cooking.
Recipes are not dumbed down; they are mostly easy to prepare and authentic.
This is not an Italian American cookbook and pastas make up only a small portion.
Everything I have tried from this has been a success.
A definite must-have for anyone who enjoys Italian cooking.
This is such a great cook book! It's like the Joy of Cooking for Italy, but translated into English. The recipes are so simple, and there's a lifetime of different things to try. I really get turned off by fancy-schmancy froo-frau cookbooks with 50 ingredients, with half from specialty stores that end up costing you more than dinner at a 5-star restaurant! Anyone can use this book, and everyone will love what you make from it.
It was called the Joy of Cooking for Italy, just got translated into English, and has a rad/disgusting description of the 30-hour process for getting snails ready to eat. Lots of real simple stuff that tastes really damn good, and measurements are few and far between, because hell you know how much stuff you want in there, right? Like a handful. Or maybe a little more.Seriously, bigass awesome italian cookbook.
My sister gave this to me for Christmas, and it's become a favorite. Too much of my understanding of Italian cuisine is seen through an American lens; I love having access to an authentic Italian resource. So far my favorite hint from the Silver Spoon is to cook pasta in the sauce thinned with some broth. It's a bit tricky to get the pasta-to-liquid ratio and the cooking time correct, but the result is an amazingly savory pasta, infused with the flavors of the sauce. A real winner.
Regalo de cumpleanos de soyloqueparezco. Es chevere porque tiene un monton de recetas elaboradas que se salen del conchudo canon "rugula con bresaola y parmesano" que tanto vi en lugares turisticos de Italia.
This is one of my favourite go to cookbooks. As the source for Chicken Marbella you gotta love this collection of well crafted recipes.
What a cookbook! A staple in Italian kitchens and I can see why. It is MASSIVE and has 2,000+ recipes. You have to have some knowledge of food and cooking as this book does not hold your hand and you have to infer some things (like rinse leeks before using...this book does not tell you to do that) etc. BUT this is a winner! We will use this book often in our kitchen and when we are not cooking from it we can do bicep curls, it weighs a ton!
The most used cookbook I own.
I love this book! It’s like La Gastronomie for Italian cuisine. My go-to Italian cheat sheet.
This cookbook is huge, and fantastic. I personally prefer more photos with every single recipe. I want to be enticed to cook that recipe. I would have liked more photos.
Greatest cooking book that I ever touched. Every single recipe that I tried out provide delicious! Easy and acceptable! Everyone should have one in the house.
Ni me paré a pensar que este libro pudiera estar en GR. Me encanta.
The chapters are decided into Notes about cooking (including the glossary of many cooking terms mentioned in the book, as well as a section devoted to “tools and equipment” with accompanying illustrations), sauces/marinades/flavored butters, antipasti/appetizers/pizzas, first courses, eggs and frittata, vegetables, fish/crustaceans/shellfish, meat and variety meats, poultry, game, cheese, dessert and baking, menus for festive occasions, menus by celebrated chefs, and list of recipes accompanied by an index.
This is a fun book to read; I will never cook straight from it again.
Let it guide you through the wondrous variety of Italian cooking that one doesn't often encounter outside of Italy.
The Silver Spoon (Il Cucchiaio d'Argento) is an Italian classic from the 1950s.
This particular edition, in my opinion, was poorly translated across time and language.
But the book still feels outdated and unwieldy.And it is translated very, very poorly.
But if you can't find it, or you don't read Italian, forget it.
Try Claudia Roden's "The Food of Italy," or Marcella Hazan's "The Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking."
At long last, Italy's version of our "Joy of Cooking" has been translated into English.
So why just a three-star rating?
Primarily because I've no idea where to purchare mutton or jackrabbit- the latter being in a chapter separate from just rabbit.
Given that I don't eat these guys anyway, couldn't I just ignore the meat chapters and concentrate on the "Molds and Puddings" or the fish chapters?
The Silver Spoon makes for a colorful read, but the recipes are impractical for everyday use.
Rather, enjoy this as a curiosity and try a few of the less exotic of modern Italy's recipes.
Extremely basic; more like a dictionary of recipes rather than something one would make over and over again. If you look into the history of this book, The Silver Spoon is more of a snapshot of what Italians were making in that decade rather than a compilation of authentic, purely Italian dishes. Thus, curry and brioche recipes. I have many other Italian cookbooks that are a million times better and more inspiring than this doorstopper. The only good thing about it is the beautiful red binding.
I always find the recipes in this book to be a total letdown: too much time or work, and not enough bang for the buck. The exception being a few of the risotto recipes, but not enough to give this massive book any more stars. I had wanted to love it, as I had read great things about it and like Phaidon's line of cookbooks, but no dice. It also doesn't help that there aren't enough images of the dishes for my liking, which I guess is a drawback of making such a massive tome.
While this is not a "book" book, this is the best cookbook around. It has beautiful simple dishes, and is genuinely helpful in learning techniques and has all sorts of information about cuts of meat, etc. This book is translated from the original italian, and has been the best selling cookbook in italy for the past 50 years. My boyfriend was a chef and I bought this for him as a gift, it has been his go-to cookbook ever since. It is great for anyone from a novice to a chef, I assure you.
I understand why they call this the italian food bible. It is a massive tome - could use it as a doorstop. Over 2000 recipes at least half of which i would want to try out. The only thing that would make me like this book more would be if it had more photos. Instead of having one full page photo here and there a small photo next to each recipe would have been better. Always better if you can see what the finished dish should look like.
