https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41890.Who_Wants_a_Cheap_Rhinoceros_
There are lots of things a rhinoceros can do around one's house, including eating bad report cards before one's parents see them, tiptoeing downstairs for a midnight snack, and collecting extra allowance.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دوم ماه ژوئن سال 2000 میلادیعنوان: کی گرگدن ارزان میخواهد؛ اثر: شل سیلوراستاین؛ برگردان: رضی خدادادی (هیرمندی)؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، هوای تازه، 1381، در 54 ص.
مصور، شابک: 9647222629، انگلیسی فارسی؛این کتاب در سال 1378 با عنوان «کسی یک کرگدن ارزون نمیخواد؟» با برگردان «ساغر پژمان» توسط انتشارات کتاب مهناز به چاپ رسیده است.
One thing I love about Shel Silverstein books is that they are so cute, a little bizarre and leave a small lection to the kids...and that's all I can ask. This one shows how important is have a pet, but in a courious way, 'cause this pet is a rhino, the cuttest rhino I ever see BTW, and the pros and cons of having this particular animal. I enjoyed a lot.
Illustrated in Silverstein’s signature spare black-and-white ink drawings, Who Wants a Cheap Rhinoceros?
is a straightforward tale that’s really a pros and cons list (to owning a rhinoceros as a pet) than a story with beginning, middle, and end.
The illustrations are essential to the writing as they make clear exactly how useful a rhinoceros’s horn can be.
(E.g., “And he makes a very lovely lamp” is accompanied by a picture of a rhino with a lampshade on its horn.)The pros and cons are humorous and inventive: “He is hard to build a house for.
This book was SO adorable!
Fun read. :))
I wonder what was 'revised and expanded' in the edition that I read? Classic silliness from one of the songwriters for Dr. Hook & the Medicine Show and writer of The Unicorn as covered by The Irish Rovers. Not as poignant or wise as some of his works, but still worth adding to your collection.
برای برادرزادم خریده بودمش.. نمیتونم بگم من بیشتر تفریح کردم یا اون!
Who would ever want to sell this delightful creature?
Well, how about a rhinoceros?
Not only is he cheap, but he’s so helpful around the house!
He’s an excellent coat hanger and he’ll help your granny make donuts.
He’ll back you up when you want extra allowance and he’s great at intimidating a shark at the beach.
Best of all, he’s easy to love.The black and white pen and ink illustrations are hilarious and imaginative.
Much like a classic boy-and-his-dog story, the friendship between boy and rhinoceros is what makes this book special.
The humorous illustrations alternate between supporting and juxtaposing the deadpan text.
Full Review at Picture-Book-a-Day: http://picturebookaday.blogspot.com/2...
it is very comfortable when you sit on his(rhinoceros's) lapbut not too comfortable when he sits on your lap.^_^
Silverstein can do no wrong in my eyes.
Everytime I made a trip to the library, I would always manage to come home with a Silverstein book.
This is the first Silverstein book that I brought home from the library for my five-year old son to read.
Who needs color when you can tell a story like Silverstein.
He writes poetry for the child like no other and this simple book of poetry by Shel Silverstein is very funny indeed.
I have said this before, that if a book interests a child and gets them to read, then the writer has done their job!
I love anything by Shel Silverstein. I never read this book as a child, but I will now recommended it to anyone who has children and wants them to experience 'Silverstenian' magic.
The book, in true Silverstein fashion, is extremely silly.
This is one of the things that I always love about his books, sometimes reading a book that's just silly is good for you.
It can show you that life isn't always really serious, and that silliness can be a good, refreshing thing.
I've read Shel Silverstein poems since I was a kid, and I always loved them.
When I picked this book up for the first time when I was 20 I found that nothing has changed, I still love his drawings and his silly stories.
کسی یک کرگدن ارزون نمی خواد؟ / شل سیلور استاین/ ترجمه ی سیما مجید زاده/ نشر گل آفتاب/ چاپ هفتم / 58 صفحه / تاریخ تموم کردن کتاب: دوشنبه 27 دی ماه 1395یه داستان کوتاه جالب با نقاشیای قشنگ از شِل. این کتابش مفهومی نبود و مخاطبش واقعا بچه های کم سن هستن البته سن های بالاتر هم لذت می برن ازش ولی چیز خاصی براشون شاید نداشته باشه..یعنی مثل اون سری کتاباش که هم بچه ها رو شامل میشه هم بزرگسالا رو نیست.پوریا روشنی
24 months - picked this one up at Goodwill and wasn't sure about it but was hoping the author of The Giving Tree wouldn't disappoint. Olivia really enjoyed this book from the first read and has asked for it over and over. My first reaction was it's ok but not a book I could read over and over... well we've read it numerous times and it's growing on me. I'd give it a 3, Olivia would probably say a 4 but neither of us would want a cheap Rhinoceros in the house.
از تو کتابای بچهگیم پیداش کردم!
از تو کتابای بچه‌گی‌م پیداش کردم!
Loved this book!
Buy now this rhinoceros, an example of friendship and tolerance!
He was with me when I searched and tried to discover "Where the Sidewalk Ends." When I felt like something in my life was missing and in a time I most needed it, I was introduced to "The Missing Piece" Trying to discover where I am at in the world or where I am going, I journeyed again with the missing piece to find "The BiG O" When I needed a laugh, a friend introduced me to Lafcadio.
And when I need to learn or relearn the beauty of relationships, I open up the "Giving Tree" I am thankful for his stories that he gave and shared with the world.
I thought this book was well worth reading because it showed the simplistic form of poetry.Classroom Connection: To use this book in the classroom I would have the student draw a picture of five different ways they could convince their parents to buy a pet.
I would use the book as an illustration of all the different and creative ways that the author convinces the reader to buy a rhino.
Text Complexity:This book has a Lexile Measure of 320L and a Guided Reading level of K.
This means that this book can be self-read in late 2nd grade to 3rd grade.
Best of all, he’s easy to love." After reading this Shel Silverstein classic, I most definently want a pet rhinoceros!!
This is a story about a little boy contemplating the pros and cons of a pet rhinoceros instead of a dog or cat.
The illustrations in the book really show the emotions of both the boy and his new found pet.
The illustrations throughout this story really show how helpful and useful a rhinoceros can be!
My other favorite line is "it is very comfortable when you sit on his lap but not too comfortable when he sits on your lap." I recommend that all grade levels 1-4th grade read this book and do some sort of fun activity with it!
Summary:This is a goofy book about all the reason a rhinoceros is a great purchase for the house.
All of the reasons listed are not possible.
What caught my eye right away was the amount of imagination going into coming up with each reason a rhinoceros is a great purchase.
Shel states, “you can use him for a coat hanger”.
This book uses a lot of circles throughout the book, showing a lot of stability in the book.
This is a surrealism artistic style because it over embellishes what a rhinoceros can really do in the real world.This has all the qualities of a high-quality picture book.
Who Wants a Cheap Rhinoceros is one of Shel's Silverstein's unusual, funny tales of kids rebelling against the norm.
This book is a story about a boy who has the most unusual of pets: a rhinoceros!
It is a funny book that young readers would definitely enjoy!I like pretty much all of Shel Silverstein's works.
I always find myself laughing at how weird the tales are, and I really appreciate how much fun he has with writing these stories.
It would be such a fun book for young readers to enjoy, as usual with Shel's work.
Silverstein was creative with coming up with so many ways that you can use a rhinoceros in everyday life and all of the fun adventures that you can have together.
The very end of the story is that a rhinoceros is easy to love and you can tell that if anyone went through all of these antics together they would have to love one another.
This story could be used in a classroom setting by using the book as a way to introduce students to creative writing and poetry.
You could have the students select their favorite animal and write about all the nontraditional uses that animal could have.
Although it appears long, there are very few words on each page so it is a quick read.
The texts features quips narrated by the child in the story.
Each picture has it's own page and is not bordered, but rather takes up as much space of the page as it needs and the words are placed in the free space.
This story is about a young boy who wants to sell his rhinoceros.
He lists the many features of the rhino, including what he's good at and good for.
It becomes clear that the boy has formed a bond with the rhino.
This book was so enjoyable!
There's nothing like a book with little to say, so much to look at with little color, but incredibly funny!
Having a rhinoceros as a pet seems like a horrible idea, but who knew that there were all these great things one could enjoy with one!
This book perfectly portrays the imagination of any child that could want such a massive animal.
There hasn't been one point in my life where I haven't wanted a giraffe as a pet and this book humors my everlasting desires and only makes me hope that one day it could be possible.
I love Shel Silverstein, and this book was one that my students loved as well. It's got rhythm and rhyme, and allows for readers to imagine having a wild animal in the home! One way to extend this text is by having students think of their own wild animals to have inside their home and write their own poetry or animating it like Silverstein did on his website [http://www.shelsilverstein.com/html/b...].
Very silly and absurd like most of the Silverstein’s books, and filled with his signature fun, scibbly illustrations. The only part I didn’t like was when the text suggested that the rhino was “good to yell at.”
This book is pretty clever, would probably give it 3.5 if available. If I were still teaching, this story could be the start of a lesson on creative writing--something about thinking outside the box. I enjoyed all the different "uses" for a cheap rhino! Fun illustrations too.
But if it's such a great pet, why is it being sold cheap?Weird, albeit cute, book.
It's pretty silly.Although silly, some of the things feel just a little too real, like, "He is great for not letting your mother hit you when you haven't really done anything bad." Sudden, unexpected reference to child abuse.
The second-to-last spread: "He is good for yelling at," showing a little child yelling at the rhinoceros, who has a tear coming out of his eye.
I would think that most children wouldn't get the emotional bits and would just think it was a funny book about having a rhinoceros for a pet.
