https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574038.The_Substitute_Guest
A family of four find a stranger on their doorstep due to a snowstorm of a century. Helping the elderly, good homespun fun indoors and old-fashion pleasures outdoors; close-knit hearts make this a heartwarming Christmas story. Throw in a few arrogant people trying to boss them around and claim their heartstrings in love and you have a contrast between simple home life and city frivolity. A pleasant Christmas story with Christ lifted up throughout.
The original set-up had all the elements she needed to carry her through to a satisfying conclusion, so none of the characters make a sharp right turn somewhere along the way to fit the new role she thrusts on them, and there aren't people popping up half way through the book who logically should have been there from the first.
I like Hill because of her homey touches, and this book is full of them, so it's likely to become one of my favorites.
To be able to bear reading Livingston Hill's novel, one has to approach it as an artefact of a time, place, and mode of writing.
Published in 1936 and recently reissued, this novel will strike even the inspirational romance reader's sensibilities as heavy-handed, moralistic, judgemental, and didactic.
The most alienating aspect of reading the novel is the extent to which the modern reader will have to accept an intrusive narrative voice: commenting on the action and characters incessantly.
If you would like to read a more extensive analysis of this iconic inspirational romance writer's work, please follow the link:http://missbatesreadsromance.com/2013...I am grateful to Barbour Books for an ARE received via Netgalley in exchange for this honest review.
All right ... I am completely captivated and entertained by these old time Grace Livingston Hill classics. My collection was my mother's ... and I can see why these novels live on and still bring pleasure to readers. ... This one was about two strangers caught up at Christmas together in a warm family farm setting due to a blizzard ... and how the lives of many are impacted through that one holiday time. Really nice.
An accidental encounter, the result of a breakdown in a blizzard becomes the right turning for a young man on the cusp of making a lot of bad decisions.
This is a beautiful story that's perfect for reading at Christmas.
Grace is at her best here, yes a bit preachy, but I always look at her books as sermons written as fiction which makes the lesson go down so much better.
I can't imagine a better book to read next to the Christmas tree.
Alan found the only way up there now was a three mile walk in the heavy snow even if his car would start again.When the Devereaux family realized how important it was to get the medicine up the mountain they worked together to help make it possible.
Lance needed to get back home and Alan would not have him go alone after all his help.The Devereaux took Alan in and made him feel like he belonged and shared their Christmas and faith with him.It felt good to read this story.
I am so glad Barbour book decided to bring back there Grace Livingston Hill books for all of us to enjoy.While taking medicine up the mountain to someone who needed it to live, Alan Monteith found himself spending time in the presence of the beautiful Daryl Devereaux , and they were clearly attracted to each other.
It is nice to read a book written so long ago, the writing has changed, but I love that the Gospel is always the same.
Hott Synopsis:Alan Monteith knows something is missing from his life and he’s hoping it’s the gorgeous blonde that he’s planning to meet at the upcoming Christmas house party.
Sure she seems superficial but he’s sure there is something more substantial under that veneer.Alan has not problem putting off the house party and offering to take a prescription to a friend’s patient in the midst of an oncoming blizzard.
Luckily for Alan, God’s in charge of this delivery!Hott Review:This is one of my favorite Christmas books.
It’s definitely a keeper!!More…Author:	Grace Livingston HillSource:	Barbour Books via NetgalleyGrade:	AAges:	12+Steam:	YA
GL Hill apparently wrote many books around the first part of the 20th Century; I had never heard of her until I happened upon this one.
But this was a light, appealing, relaxing book to read, particularly around Christmastime.
The plot was sweet, but quite predictable.
What I liked best about the book were the little homey domestic details (hot water bottles, lavender scented sheets, doughnuts!) that made me feel so cozy to be reading this simple book on a snowy winter's day.
I'd read more of her books JUST to eat up these sweet details...but not so much for the plot or characters.
Charming 1930s beach book, basically!
I am fed up to here with books that are vulgar, so I decided to dedicate the next couple of weeks to reading Christmas books that will put me in the right frame of mind for the upcoming holidays.
Sometimes the salvation theme got a little heavy but that's to be expected, for this is a Christian author after all.I was tickled by a couple expressions that seemed too modern for a book written in 1936.
Maybe we're just recycling those expressions: he's all that, we were all kinds of worried, man alive, and we hang together come to mind.
12-29-08: It's possible I've read this book more times than any other. (Yes, I've read the Bible more often, but not cover-to-cover this many times!) ;-) It's been my annual Christmas read for ages. This year, I'm thoroughly enjoying the ambiance of a 1940's Grosset and Dunlap hardcover edition, complete with gorgeous dust jacket. Family, friendship, warmth; a house party that will make your heart twang with longing; and great drama that not only endangers the hero's physical life, but threatens his business, his soul, and his heart, as well. Any wonder why I reread this every year?
I don't think I've read anything by this author before. This was a nice little Christmas story where a traveler gets caught in a blizzard and meets a wonderful family that gives him much more than just shelter from the storm. I love how the "villains" were portrayed. Harold moving with a "fast" crowd, and Demeter with her crimson finger tips and lips painted like they were bleeding. That made me laugh.
He was a man of his word - even if it meant risking his life. But he never realized how empty his life was until he met a small, close-knit family on Christmas and was invited to learn more about his Savior, Jesus Christ. I'm of a different religion than the author, but I love the overall story anyway. Boy meets girl, both change for the better, and they fall in love.
Substitute GuestGrace Livingston Hill is one of my favorite authors and I would recommend her books to anyone. You can guarantee that her books will be clean with a strong Christian influence. The Substitute Guest has always been a favorite of Hill's stories and I've reread it many times.
One of my favorite GLH books, in part because the "villains" make only the rare appearance so the focus is mainly on the wonderful family and their open-hearted guest. There are some truly inspiring scenes in this tale as well; they stuck with me long after I read the last page.
I love GLH books. They're set in the early 1900's and take you back to a simpler, quieter life. Always a love story, always a villain and always the Way to Salvation. "Rainbow Cottage" was my favorite, tho I liked this one too!
I discovered GLH as a young adult and read every book of hers I could find at the time. Originally written in the 1910s-1930s, her stories are refreshing, values old-fashioned and traditional, and her plots include a Christian message, which make her books so unique.
There's nothing quite like grace livingston hill. They're pretty much all the same, but I do enjoy them. Sometimes, you just need some light entertainment that throws in some good scriptures. And it's always very interesting to see the early 1900s through the eyes of a participant.
This is one of my all-time favorite GLH novels. I've read it nearly every Christmas for the last 20 years. Great literature? No. A captivating plot with enchanting characters and clear spiritual truths? Yes. A little gem.
I like these clean Christian romances by Grace Livingston Hill; however, I will say that her good characters are almost too perfect and her bad ones horribly evil, which can make them amusing although that's not the intent.
A Christmas story of love and adventureI read this story every Christmas season and have done so for years. It is spiritually inspiring as well as romantic. The setting reminds me of an earlier time when I was a child. I am 82 years old.
These books are so cheeseball but I can't help loving a few of them. I think this one is my favorite - some really nice domestic scenes in here (homemade doughnuts!!), and it's set at Christmas...how can you not love that?
Typical Grace Livingston Hill romance novel. Good storyline and characters who represent good and a faith-filled lifestyle and those who represent evil and are in and of the world.
This is a wonderful read for the holidays. It takes you back to a quieter, simpler time. It's a love story and more.
Always one of my favorites!
First one of her books that I read. I love it. AND, I still have all of her titles except one.
my copy is unabridged six cassettes read by Barbara Robinson.
I enjoy Grace Livingston Hill's books but some of them I reread over and over. This is one that I read most every year.
Loved it.
Cheesy and old fashioned. But sweet and refreshing.
