https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13056159-the-chaperone
I really liked so much of this book (including Elizabeth McGovern's excellent narration), but it just went on so long.
I felt like it had several false endings, places where I was finished but then it kept going.Maybe the probelm is just that I didn't expect an epic when I began.
I began to feel manipulated after a while.What a I loved was the relationship between Cora and Louise Brooks.
I am a sucker for an author using a (notice one) true event and creating fiction from there.I would have been much more satisfied had she ended the book after their summer together.
She's ready to take on New York City, but she's only fifteen, so Cora is sent along to make sure Louise maintains the proper decorum.
In more subtle and unexpected ways, the trip serves as a catalyst for changes in Cora's attitudes and lifestyle.
She shows not only the contrast between 36-year-old Cora and 15-year-old Louise, but also the differences between Wichita and New York City in that era.
As far as I know, Cora Carlisle was not a real person, but she serves as an excellent vehicle to carry us through almost 100 years of life.
The fact that the name of the book is The Chaperone hinted to me that the story might involve Louise Brooks’ influencing her dowdy chaperone and introducing her to the big bad (beautiful) world of New York City.
Instead it focused on the life of Cora Carlisle, a proper married lady from Wichita, who accompanies Louise on her journey to New York but really goes to find truths, freedom, and a broader mind.
Cora’s whirlwind journey in New York with Louise was only part of the book.
First off, I am a sucker for historical fiction. I really, really liked this book! Cora Carlisle (the chaperone) is a great character. I felt as though I knew Cora and was completely wrapped up in her life. There was one twist in the story I didn't see coming :-) The author also piqued my interest in reading more about Louise Brooks, who was certainly a woman ahead of her time! I would highly recommend this one. I've already passed my copy to a coworker.
Cora Carlisle is a fictionalized character, as 'The Chaperone', in this story to Louise's Brooks who in real life was a film actress and dancer who starred in 17 silent films and 8 sound films before she retired in 1938.
Author Laura Moriaty created a really engaging tale about a journey that Louise Brooks & Cora might have taken together to New York.
For the purpose of this story...all girls underage -no matter how mature or precocious they might be we're not allowed to be on their own.Coming from Wichita, Kansas, -- all young performers had a chaperone.Cora Carlisle, was married with twin boys.
When she travels to New York as chaperone to a young, rebellious Louise Brooks, her eyes begin to open to the changes coming in society’s mores and challenge her to look beyond her rigidly held beliefs and conventional outlook about what is acceptable and right in her own life.
The based-on-fact details of Louise's life add contrast and interest to the changing times during the Gilded Age. I really enjoyed the reading experience, and as often happens in a story like this, I stop and think about how fortunate we modern day women are in progressive countries.
When she returns to Kansas from New York, what I expected to be a two-or-three page epilogue instead turns into the last 3/4 of the book, as we have to sit through all of Cora's marital drama (turns out that her husband (view spoiler)[is gay, a plot twist that was blatantly projected from basically the minute the husband was introduced (hide spoiler)]) and a quick tour of post-Jazz Age American history, and by itself it's interesting, but the problem is that the shadow of Louise Brooks looms over the entire story, and this is to the book's detriment.
The author did a good job exploring the lives and backgrounds of the two characters and how they found that sense of self, or did not find it.The other theme was morality.
It was interesting to see the contrast between her and Louise, who because of life's unfairness, had a distinct lack of morality.
The "real life" character, Louise, however, had very real consequences for her actions, but Cora, the fictional character, had a better life as she became more accepting of immorality.
The book would have been better if Moriarty hadn't tried to cover a lifetime.On a positive note: Cora's story was very interesting and it really pulled me in.
It purports to be about Louse Brooks (the silent screen star of the 1920s) and her trip to NYC from Kansas City, and how her mother hires a local woman to be her chaperone.
And it goes off on tangents about how chaperone herself was originally from NYC, but was an orphan, sent out on the orphan trains to the Midwest, and was adopted by a farm family outside of Kansas City.
..so all 4 basically live together, happily ever after; c) author inserts plotlines about Margaret Sanger and birth control and how it will revolutionize the lives of the ladies of Kansas City b/c, like chaperone lady, they can have their true relationships now w/o worrying about getting pregnant.
Realmente este libro a sido toda una sorpresa! En ningún momento creí que fuera a gustarme tanto, ni a sorprenderme como lo ha hecho. Según la sinopsis, acompañamos por un mes a Cora y a Louise Brooks a Nueva York, pero hacemos mucho más que eso: vemos la prohibición del alcohol, los trenes de los niños sin padres que eran repartidos por todo el país como si fueran ganado, la estricta moralidad de los dorados años 20, amores prohibidos y los prejuicios de la homosexualidad y sus penas...
Bullet Review:Parts 1 and 2: 4 starsPart 3: Negative 80 starsWhat a HORRIBLE HORRIBLE end to an actual decent book with a great message and discussion topic.My recommendation: Don't read past page 285 or read Part 3 if you liked what you were reading in Parts 1 and 2.Full Review:The year is 1922 and Louise Brooks of Wichita, Kansas is headed to New York City to dance with the Denishaw group.
This is the first book I've read by this author.
I thought it was really neat how the author put together true facts about the actress Louise Brooks but also added to the story so that it was a mix of fiction and biography.
It gives you a sneak peak into how her life was like.
The book goes into depth about each characters personality and life.
Louise was a headstrong and determined girl with a rebellious streak and I found her character to be inspiring.
And I’m very glad I did.And, of course this isn’t the story of Louise Brooks, silent movie icon; it is the story of one woman who crossed paths with her in one summer that would change both of their lives.It opens in the early 1920s, the in Wichita, Kansas, where housewife Cora Carlisle has undertaken to act as chaperone to the teenage Louise Brooks, who is heading to summer dance school in New York.
She began as an unremarkable small town housewife, but as the story unfolded she became even interesting than her young charge.When the summer in New York drew to a close Cora made an extraordinary decision.
I love when a book directs me towards something new and interesting that I didn't know about before.I found The Chaperone a really good page turner of a story, not a story pre-dominantly about Louise Brooks but about Cora Carlisle, Louise's chaperone for a few weeks in New York.
I think they both had a lot to learn from one another and both perhaps craved each others courage.The Chaperone really tried to deal with so many issues which affected both men and women during this era; societal values, expectations, restrictions, behaviours and morals of the times.
I have had this book on my shelf for ages, so glad I finally decided to read it.The book tells the story of Cora,( fictionalized) from her childhood on up.
It is really 2 stories in one, we follow Cora & her life & what is was like for women at this time in history, I enjoyed that very much.
The 2nd, smaller part of the story was about Louise, she comes & goes throughout the book.Great book, interesting little segment of history(the orphan trains!) & all the changes that happened in that era, exciting times!
Louise was not the main character, but aspects of her real life were included in this fictional account of the main character - Cora Carlisle, the chaperone - who started out as rather prim and proper but became much more forgiving and tolerant as the story progressed.
I did, however, feel sorry for her in her role as chaperone to Louise - no doubt I also would have come across as prim and proper when challenged with Louise’s defiance of conventions!
CHAPERONELaura MoriartyA captivating and thoroughly enchanting novel of two very diverse women and their impact on each other that will affect their lives greatly.In the summer of 1922 the stunningly beautiful fifteen year old Louise Brooks sporting her soon to be famous black bob and blunt bangs wants to leave Wichita, Kansas to study dance at the Denishawn School of Dance.
Louise will go on to become a world famous silent film star, a madcap and unrestrained icon of her generation.
That pretty much covers the vastness of this wonderful book.
SPOILERSWhat was more off-putting for me was the development of Cora's amorality--she starts out as a pretty conventional woman, and her change to one who not only accepts but participates in what at the time was viewed as immoral behavior with no psychological repercussions struck me as unbelievable, particularly as it apparently developed in an extremely short time.
It felt like a propaganda piece for modern tolerance of all forms of behavior, but if Cora could have a fairy tale ending, Louise certainly paid the price for her bad choices, and given that hers is the real, historical character, hers is a cautionary tale that undercuts Cora's with an irony too thick for this book to withstand.

The blurb of this novel actually misleads readers, in my opinion. The story merely skims life of the legendary Louise Brooks, 1904-1985, dancer and actress, the woman who popularised bobbed hair. It is instead the story of Cora X, later Cora Kaufman, finally Cora Carlisle, a woman who broke all the rules in her own quiet way and went on to live the life she so richly deserved. A 3.5★ novel.
It was an exciting plot and I was never bored, however some things really bothered me:1) I could not believe the main character at all.
For one thing she went through a 180 in her personal beliefs all because of Louise and Mary O'Whatever...both of whom were obnoxious and unenjoyable.
2) Louise Brooks did not need to be in this book.
She was an interesting side character but I think her name and image were just used to create interest, she didn't carry the story at all.
4) After reading this book I had a very clear view of the authors political views on some women's rights issues.
It personified an era of strict morals and a stratified society during a period of change.
Through strong female characters, Cora and Louise, each crying out for change in her own way and within her own societal- and self- imposed boundaries for behavior, we see how transitions between eras are not without bumps.
By layering my current freedom as a woman upon the way I was brought up during the restrictive and changing morals of the 1950s, 60s, and 70s, and the oppressive society illuminated in this book, it becomes clear that change first comes from within the minds and actions of brave individuals.
I'm a little confused by this book.
I'm not even sure how to write this review and articulate my thoughts about it.While it was interesting to learn about Louise Brooks, the story could have done without her.
Cora, chaperones a 15 year old Louise Brooks to New York City to attend the Denishaw Dance School.
Cora's real purpose in doing so was to use the time to search out and learn of her parentage.
She had been an orphan, shipped on the orphan train to Kansas.The whole story is contrived and a bit convoluted.
I enjoyed it overall, but am confused by it.
An outstanding story of an outstanding woman. No, not Louise Brooks, the famous silent-film star, but Cora, her chaperone on a somewhat brief but life changing trip to New York City in 1922. Cora X Kaufmann Carlisle lived well into her 90s, and along the way she changes from saying things correctly to saying the right thing and in doing so, was "grateful life could be long."
Favorite quote “That's what spending time with the young can do - it's the big payoff for all the pain. The young can exasperate, of course, and frighten, and condescend, and insult, and cut you with their still unrounded edges. But they can also drag you, as you protest and scold and try to pull away, right up to the window of the future, and even push you through.”********spoiler alert******Between 1853 and 1929, more than 250,000 children rode the “Orphan Train” to new lives.
It completely lived up to the hype of my ranting and raving over Rules of Civility and, not only that, it reminded me of one of my favorite books of all time: Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day.This is the story of a mature woman, Cora Carlisle, and an adventure that takes her to New York, New York as the chaperone of a young, impulsive Louise Brooks.
Now, as a woman with experience behind her, I look for something more like The Chaperone - a book that blurs the line between black and white and, instead of giving us clear-cut molds to fit into, offers up the idea that people change over time, and what was considered right and good one year might not be the same the next.
I enjoy reading about the 1920s era, and that certainly drew me to this book.
Cora Carlisle agrees to chaperone the very fiery 15 year old Louise Brooks (an actual star of the silent screen in the 1920s) to New York to hone her craft.
Not surprising for young Louise, who we know becomes a huge movie star of the time, but Cora's story is quieter and more interesting.
I didn't have great expectations for this book, but I really did enjoy it!
I felt slightly misled by the synopsis of this novel, thinking that I would get a window into the life of young Louise Brooks.
But this turned out to be the life story of Cora Carlisle, Louise's chaperone during a brief stint at dance school in New York.
The story line covers all of Cora's life, not just her role as chaperone.
Although Louise Brooks is a loose thread which awkwardly resurfaces, this is Cora's story.
Moriarty touches on so many important themes of the time (1920s) - birth control, Ku Klux Klan, prohibition, sufferage, homosexuality, extra-maritial affairs, etc.

She's then given an opportunity to be a chaperone to the fifteen year old, Louise Brooks who will stay in New York City for a month to try out for a prestigious dance company in the hopes she'll become a big stage star.
The best part of this novel is the time Cora is in New York City.
I wanted to smack Louise because she's a bad apple, but what has happened to her when she was a child, around the same age Cora left the nuns, gives some understanding to her character.The Chaperone falters big time when Cora returns home to Kansas and the next five decades of her life fly by.
