https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6534.Postmortem
English (Postmortem) / Italiano«It was raining in Richmond on Friday, June 6»The first case of Kay Scarpetta, the coroner who made the fortune of the American writer Patricia Cornwell, starts in the rain.
The coroner Scarpetta, who examined the bodies of the killed women, awaits powerless the next victim.A few weeks ago I picked from my bookshelf an old copy of this novel, that I read in 2000 (I had the reading date on the inside cover).
Great opening narrative.Vote: 8«Venerdì 6 giugno a Richmond pioveva»Inizia sotto la pioggia il primo caso di Kay Scarpetta, il medico legale che ha fatto la fortuna dell'americana Patricia Cornwell.
Loved! gritty and a very entertaining storyline with great characters and also consist of forensic writing/analysis (paperback!)
This is a really terrific book. I think people forget how things started when they talk about current books by Patricia Cornwell. Back in the beginning, she was doing something no other woman was doing, and she did it really well. So well that she inspired folks like me. I figgered if she could get away with writing the kinds of books I like to read, then I could do it, too. I loves me some Sue Grafton and Sara Paretsky, but they weren't into the hard stuff. Cornwell really forged a new trail.
While I am fully capable of reading detailed descriptions of gore and autopsies without getting sick, I was a tad worried that it would get too technical where I'd lose some of the understanding of the medical aspects.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Thanks for stopping by.
Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them.
Many thanks to their original creators.
Put in that historical perspective, I understood that she was the antecedent who set the stage for writers like Reichs.
For instance there are no cell phones AND the use of the computer was infantile compared to now and Cornwall does a terrific job of employing computers as part of the mystery with a degree of sophistication that was likely unprecedented at the time.Postmortem is definitely a page turner that kept me up late two nights reading.
I'll be reading more of Cornwall in part to see her influence on later mystery writers.
Patrišu mi je otkrila krajem 90-ih moja tetka koja živi u Americi i koja je njen vatreni obožavalac... :) Dosta čitalaca je voli ali se to nikad ne bi reklo po prodaji njenih romana... Šteta, moglo bi to i bolje...
Or robot!) Even when books are set in current times, or in the past few years, it's great!
I feel old.) I'm sure, nay, positive that I will enjoy the Scarpetta books further down the line as technology catches up but I was frustrated throughout this novel.
The least successful (read: most annoying) sections of the book for me were Kay Scarpetta's interactions with her precocious niece.
Don't read on if you don't want to absolutely spoil the book!(view spoiler)[Several women are murdered by someone with a glittery substance on their hands.
They were/are names I associate with story-over-prose fiction, the type of popular books that are easily consumable but lack any writing prowess whatsoever.
Several times throughout the book, Cornwell dropped a seventeen-letter- or thirty-two-letter word I had to look up on Google.
Don't get me wrong, there are more times when Cornwell describes well these processes and the machines that do them than there are times that she doesn't, but a single time where I have to put down my book to research a word is one time too many.
Not sure I'll read every book in the series, but I will continue on.
If you can handle scary, and can look past gory and profane, Patricia Cornwell's novels are AMAZING. Aside from good old J.K. and Harper Lee, Cornwell is my favorite author. I'm convinced that all the CSI-esque shows were spawned from her books, and if you like that kind of thing, you'll LOVE these. Gripping, intense, nightmare-inducing ... plus you might learn some new things.Start with the older books in the series, her newer works aren't as good.
To start with, I was annoyed I had to read about another serial killer. However, the book is much more than that. I think this is why it is somewhat better than average. The political intrigue and incertainties as well as the characterisation make up for the cliched 'killer chase'. I can see why it became such a huge series.
While the genre is supersaturated with these types of stories nowadays, Cornwell writes in such a way as to rise above the rest (putting aside that the novel came out before the aforementioned overkill).
This being before the wonders of GOOGLE, she took a great amount of time to thoroughly present things in a believable way.
Anyone (like me) looking for a great series that many people have lauded, should surely begin with this novel and continue on the great journey Cornwell lays out for Dr. Scarpetta.Kudos, Madam Cornwell on a highly entertaining and thoroughly enjoyable novel.
Well, and I did have to get up one night and make sure all my doors and windows were locked as I was reading the book at midnight.And I kept making concessions for the year, like yeah, I bet this DNA stuff was pretty impressive for 1990, and I can kinda understand why she's explaining all this basic PC computer crap...when your story is that tied to technology, of course the effort is going to feel dated at a later time.
I worked some time for a computer forensics company, and I kept wondering about the time frame for technology in that field...how easy now to see who accessed what, when, from where, and exactly what they did with it.The other thing that was dated...thriller story-telling techniques.
However I was disappointed with this book.
The book felt long.
It was extremely detailed when it came to describe the technology used.
I skimmed over most of those parts because the technology was extremely dated and it was hard to follow what she was saying.
Granted there were moments in the book that had me enraptured, but these were few and far between.
I only really remember one of these moments, which was at the very end of the book.
Word to the wise, the ending is not worth the 300+ pages you have to read to get there.
Warning: Gore Alert.
Kudos for writing the 1st CSI crime thriller – I liked that it’s a bit of a time capsule with electronic memos as opposed to email & DNA in its infancy.
Makes it no less relevant nor does it get in the way of a good story.
Kay Scarpetta is edgy and arrogant, love her or hate her she’ll hold your attention.
The supporting characters are wonderful, Pete Marino the grubby tough cop who lumps all perps into the category of 'psycho-squirrels’ is perfection; punchy dialog and Pete gets all the best lines.
This was a pretty good first book in a series. It definitely had its moments that completely creeped me out and gave me goose bumps and had me looking over my shoulder making sure no one was watching me. I will definitely be reading more in the series.
This book is filled with suspense and interesting characters that you may either love or hate...
She has this way with details that you can perfectly envision the characters and scenes, but when it comes to the medical and technology jargon, they become so detailed that it can be a little difficult to follow or it gets a bit boring.
Good thing is she didn't make the characters wholly good or bad; they were more complex than I imagined making them more interesting.
In the special edition I picked up which commemorates 20 years of Kay Scarpetta, I was fascinated to read the extra chapter at the end where Patricia Cornwell explains how she got started, found her plot and characters, etc etc.
I enjoyed the way she introduced Kay Scarpetta, and Lucy as a ten year old brat.
It's interesting how through the series Lucy's character developed as she got older, but Pete Marino stayed the same age over twenty years.

What a ride this was!
And a reread, no less.
It's been so long since I read this, I remembered hardly anything.
Loved the characters, loved the story, loved the fact that I was immersed so easily every time I picked this up.
The way she reads Marino is pinpoint perfect!
I'd actually forgot how terrific this series is.
I'm going to the library to pick up the second book tomorrow.
If you want a book that grabs you from page one, with main characters you'll enjoy getting to know, pick up this first novel in the Kay Scarpetta series.
83%  | B-You should read this if you're into:Serial killer mysteries, forensic science, starting a series, CSI/Criminal Minds/etc.
I am a fan of Keith McCarthy and his Eisenmenger-Flemming Forensic Mysteriesseries about Dr. John Eisenmenger, a former forensic pathologist and I was searching for detective books where the main character would be a pathologist and I am glad I found it.
I like the way characters were build, they were very "human" and it was easy to connect with their feelings.
My only "concern" was a niece of the main character Kay. I understand the situation with her mother, I understand that she is different, genius and all...
With the impending release of Port Mortuary, the eighteenth Scarpetta novel, and recent confirmation that Oscar winner Angelina Jolie – who has already played a forensic heroine in the adaptation of Jeffrey Deaver’s chilling novel The Bone Collector – is signed on to play Dr. Kay Scarpetta in the long awaited movie adaptations of the series, it’s time to revisit the series I credit with kick-starting widespread interest in forensics long before CSI hit our screens.
If you haven’t read Patricia Cornwell before, or you haven’t had a dose of classic Scarpetta for a while, there is no better time to pick up Postmortem.What do you think of the casting of Angelina Jolie as Dr. Kay Scarpetta?
I chose this book for my month of mystery because I have collected many of this series and decided it was time to start reading them rather than just let them sit there.
Of course I loved the plot of the book since it was on a serial killer.
I felt like the pacing was a bit slow though for my tastes until about halfway through the book when it finally picked up and got much more exciting.
I do look forward to the next book in the series and hope for it to be much faster paced.
The power of SQL, commands you to re-assign admin passwords!!!  Sigh, so 1980's! If this would have happened now, the book would be 2 pages long and instead of Kay Scarpetta being the protagonist, any one of those bazillion smartphones would have saved the day! Apart from the dated SQL references and detailed explanations on how genetic inheritance works (boring!!), the story was passable enough, albeit with a shitty resolution to the plot. The thrills and chills were there in ample proportions which would keep anyone entertained. Rather an impressive "first" book, I'd say. My Rating - 3.5/5
3.5 starswell its not my all time favorite, but still a good time pass read!. My first read of Patricia work.I have read novels which revealed killers near to 70-80% of novel or even at the beginning.I think this is the first book I read that reveals the killer in the very last chapter and that too introducing a new character (typically in thriller novels, the scenario is usually one of the character among the all introduced right from the chapter one). Moral of the story: If you mess up with DN
3.5 starswell its not my all time favorite, but still a good time pass read!. My first read of Patricia work.I have read novels which revealed killers near to 70-80% of novel or even at the beginning.I think this is the first book I read that reveals the killer in the very last chapter and that too introducing a new character (typically in thriller novels, the scenario is usually one of the character among the all introduced right from the chapter one).
  Moral of the story: If you mess up with DNA profiling and Database, you are fucked....
I read this book years ago but much to my surprise I didn't remember any it, (not sure what this says about me).
So it was like reading a new book.
And what a satisfying read it was.
It's no wonder that Patricia Cornwell got such high praise for this novel.
It's well plotted with enough twists and turns to keep any mystery reader engrossed.I wont give a synopsis of the story as it has all been done, many, many times before.I have read some unflattering comments on the later Scarpetta series, I can't comment as I have not read any of the newer books, but this can't be said about the early works.I recommend this book and give it 5 stars.
I knew that this book was written a quarter of a century ago, so I was expecting to read about some obsolete forensic and DNA tests and computer systems and programming.
Though the author's intention was to give us a clearer picture, (since DNA testing and computers were at a very early stage back then), I found such detailed information too technical and annoying and it actually did not add anything to the story.
With all the praise given to this author, I was expecting to be reading a much better crime novel and this was indeed very disappointing.
While Kay loves Lucy, she is distressed that her sister Dorothy once again has taken off without much notice, deserting her daughter.
While Scarpetta is gone, looking at bodies with unpleasant police detective Pete Marino, Lucy has been checking out the doctor's home PC.At work, Kay has been accused by Dr. Alvin Amburgey, commissioner, of leaking information about the strangulation cases to reporter Abby Turnbull, who has been printing inside information about the murders.
Just in case....'Postmortem', book one in the procedural Kay Scarpetta mystery series, is thrilling and smart.
Non che la cosa mi abbia dato fastidio, sia chiaro.Sono proprio curiosa di leggere 
Oggetti di reato,
che tra l'altro avevo provato a leggere ai tempi delle medie: pessima idea, non riuscivo a seguire le indagini, quindi ho tutta l'intenzione di recuperare.
বইটা পড়ার পর অনেকেই ভরু কুচকাবেন জানি, কিনতু একটা জিনিস মাথায় রাখলে সমসযা হবে না। বইটা যখন লেখা হয়েছে তখন এরকম জিনিসই সবচেয়ে আপডেটেড ছিল, মানে পরযুকতিগত বিভিনন বযাপারের কথা বলছি। এখনকার লেখকদের সুবিধে হচছে দরকারে বিভিনন পরযুকতির বযবহার লেখায় করতে পারেন, তখন এরকম ছিল না, সীমিত উপকরণ দিয়েই সাজাতে হতো। এখানেই লেখিকার সবারথকতা বলে মনে করি। পাতার পর পাতা উলটে গিয়েছি। সকারপেটটাকেও মনে ধরেছে খুবই। বলাড/গোর যদি ভালো লাগে.. তাহলে বইটা একটা টরিট হতে পারে আপনার জনযে। এত আগে এরকম কিছু লেখার জনযে পযাটরিসিয়া
বইটা পড়ার পর অনেকেই ভ্রু কুচকাবেন জানি, কিন্তু একটা জিনিস মাথায় রাখলে সমস্যা হবে না। বইটা যখন লেখা হয়েছে তখন এরকম জিনিসই সবচেয়ে আপডেটেড ছিল, মানে প্রযুক্তিগত বিভিন্ন ব্যাপারের কথা বলছি। এখনকার লেখকদের সুবিধে হচ্ছে দরকারে বিভিন্ন প্রযুক্তির ব্যবহার লেখায় করতে পারেন, তখন এরকম ছিল না, সীমিত উপকরণ দিয়েই সাজাতে হতো। এখানেই লেখিকার স্বার্থকতা বলে মনে করি। পাতার পর পাতা উলটে গিয়েছি। স্কারপেট্টাকেও মনে ধরেছে খুবই। ব্লাড/গোর যদি ভালো লাগে.. তাহলে বইটা একটা ট্রিট হতে পারে আপনার জন্যে। এত আগে এরকম কিছু লেখার জন্যে প্যাট্রিসিয়া কর্নওয়েলকে স্যালুট :)
