https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11564.The_Girl_Who_Loved_Tom_Gordon
Everyone has a memory from when they were suddenly alone.King knows better than most any writer today about fear, and here he demonstrates his incredible ability to awake in the reader a deep primal fear that we all can recognize, and what better illustration of that recognition than a little girl lost in the woods?Trisha realizes when she “felt the first winnow flutter of disquiet” that she was lost in the woods, and from there King leads us in an uncomfortable, suspenseful long walk in the woods with a very likable protagonist.Reminiscent of Algernon Blackwood in his brilliant The Willows and especially in The Wendigo, King creates an antagonist in an almost personified menace of “the woods” or “the wild” and finally in a mystic representation of a wild god.And of course – baseball.
Let me begin by saying I am an ardent Stephen King fan and have been since reading "The Stand" back in 1978.
That being said, even though I have read nearly everything he has written under any pen name, this is the only review I plan to write for the extensive King library.
What is unique about this book was that it barely stepped into the usual worlds of Stephen King.
It is a story about how a young girl survives being lost in the woods.
The focus is more on her psychological battle to survive.
Trisha also shares a bond with her father, a love of baseball, specifically the Boston Red Sox. Larry saw how much the divorce had taken a toll on his kids so he wrote to Tom Gordon, Boston's closer at the time of this book (1998) and Trisha's favorite player, and asked him to sign a Sox cap for her.
It is evident from reading The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon that Stephen King is a huge fan of the game, as he inserts baseball facts and statistics within the story.
Steve gives us three choices: the New Testament God (the one Tom prays to with his finger pointed to the sky) who physically intervenes, but not always to one’s benefit; the God who is immanent in the universe but non-intrusive (Trisha’s father’s “subaudible”, more of a dormant force than a person); and the terrifying ogre God of all primitive religions including the Old Testament, the “God of the Lost” who comes from the thing in the woods.
This isn't a big book, but it's one of my fave Stephen King books.
It's brilliantly written and I think any lost-in-the-woods book will pale against it.
King keeps his "I digress" waffling moments out of this one.
Don't get me wrong I love his waffling most of the time ...
it makes for great characters.The ominous feeling of the little girl being stalked by something unknown is so powerful.I read this in one sitting.
Any reader who thinks Stephen King isn't a literary genius should read this book.
This book should be studied in schools.Also, there's a moral.
3.5*One of my biggest fears is to get lost in the woods. Stephen King makes a story out of this horrifying situation with a 9 year old little girl. It has all the eliminates that one would experience in a situation like this: paranoia, hunger, sickness, and even a predatory stalking her. This is a quick read, which is not common for a King book, but like most King books you will not regret reading it!
Once upon a time, I could buy Stephen King books with confidence it would be a good read.I think this book is the worst one I've read by King, and maybe one of the worst I've ever read, period. I do not have to words to properly express how crappy this book was.
I very much enjoyed this story about a nine 'but big for her age' year-old girl who gets lost in the Maine wilderness.
No, when Trisha cried, it fit into the story and didn't make her seem like a spoiled whiny brat (sorry, I have a thing against girls who cry a lot in books).
Girl comes to fork in the road, goes off in the MIDDLE to pee, and gets lost.
Also, like most of King's almost could-happen books, I didn't need the supernatural stuff.
So why hadn't I, our resident King fanboy, read The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon?
Some of you know the character of whom I speak.All that is still no excuse for me having not read The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon.
It wasn't until last year (2014), that I realized the damn thing was actually a full-length (albeit short) novel.
Dude, you didn't even try." I think King was hoping to rely on the build up he'd created earlier in the book to carry over to the end.
This puts The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon inside the Dark Tower universe--guilty by association.
NOTHING!Unfortunately, I didn't find anything scary in this book.
There were pretty gross scenes but that doesn't count as scary because they only made me want to vomit.I also didn't like Trisha, our main character.
This was also my first Stephen King's book and I'm pretty sure this won't be the last.
I've heard great things about his other novels and will surely pick it up when you know, the planets and the sun do their job.For a better review, click here.To know what the whole plot is about, click here.I would suggest you find something else to read because this ain't a good book.
I first read this book in high school and I loved it just as much (if not more) this time around as I did back then.
Although it's quite a short book, it manages to make me FEEL so much every time I read it.
And this book brings that fear to life for me and makes me feel like I'm lost alongside Trisha.
I really love how the supernatural aspect is present but just kind of lingers on the edges, making you wonder if it's really there, just like Trisha finds herself doing.
Warning: Don't Get Skulled........Being stranded in the mosquito infested woods of the Appalachians is no fun for nine year old Trisha McFarland. With visions of The Thing following her and frightening words from The Cold Voice, her love of baseball and Boston Red Sox closer Tom Gordon is her only salvation.This 1999 Stephen King audio adventure (narrated by Anne Heche) is not really scary, but is entertaining with one hell of a final pitch!
Writing is as good as ever, but this feels like something King should be able to write in his sleep (and he almost sent me there on more than one occasion, the New York Times reviewer that wrote the cover blurb should stay far away from really scary books as to not having to sleep with the lights on for all future).
Without kids on my own I think I can still understand the horror of a 10 year old girl getting lost in a large forest, but the fact is really not enough for a book and King has described hardships and terror very much better and more effective than this.
Cacare in mezzo alle felciFreddo e noioso esercizio stilistico condotto da un King che, evidentement
I really tried to like this book, but it just did not work for me.
A girl gets lost in a forest thanks to a woman who is a candidate for "The Worst Mother of the Year" award, and tries to keep it cool while coming to realization that she has no idea where she is or which way to go to find help.
Him, as well as her Walkman which she turns on every once in a while to listen to baseball announcer, keeps her from going insane.
Overall, the girl in the book was brave, quick on her feet, and kept her cool in all of the situations where she was nervous or scared of what is out there, lurking.
I missed the greatness of The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon the first time I read the book.
Then, I decided to give the book another go since I hardly remembered the book.
That was a wise move.
Every step of the way of the book I was with Trisha as she tried to find her way back to civilization.
She is only nine years old (tall for her age) lost in the woods, but what a tough cookie.I loved this book!
I loved how King can write a story so good that the reader is pulled into the story!
It wasn't my favorite of King's read, but there isn't any flaws that I could complain about so it gets the ol' 5 star treatment.Trisha McFarland is 9, almost 10 and big for her age.
One Saturday morning, Quilla, Trisha's mom decides that they will all go on a hike in the Appalachian mountains.
The most important not mentioned above was her strength in herself to keep going.I found the story to be slightly unbelievable because as a mother of two boys, there is no way they would have survived that long in the woods alone with only their wits.
First of all, I need to point out that this book is *nothing* like the standard King lineup.
Its a refreshing change of pace for his Constant Reader.
Strangely enough, I think Stephen King felt the same way.
There's a passion in the lines of this one that almost makes the words glow on the page.If I were to recommend a Stephen King book to a "fraidy cat" this would be the one.
Its not scary, not even really creepy, although it does have some fairly tense scenes.
A really quick little read about a brave and resilient little girl who gets lost in the woods. I read it in a couple of hours last night and really admired Trisha! In her situation I would have curled into the foetal position and just given up, honestly!
3.5Svidio mi se pogled na svijet kroz oči (skoro) desetogodišnjakinje prepuštene samoj sebi. Lijepo pisano (kao i obično), tečno i realno. Dosadnjikavo (iako sam svjesna zašto mora biti tako), te ako vam baseball ne znači ništa definitivno neće pomoći.
Großartige Geschichte über den Überlebenskampf einer durch einen Wald irrenden 9-Jährigen, die über sich hinauswächst, obwohl sie ständig von Halluzinationen, Schmerzen und Todesängsten heimgesucht wird.
“The world had teeth and it could bite you with them anytime it wanted.”   This was a little different than the other King books i've read but still quite enjoyable. A 9 year old city girl, fighting for survival after straying off a trail path ,her mother and brother bickering yet again and to distracted to notice her gone. This book focused on fear, imagination, things that go bump in the night with a twist of the supernatural. The visual imagery King uses makes you feel like you yourself are
This book definitely gave off creepy vibes at times but also helped us relate to the little girl Patricia quite easily by the words/slang used or the fear of an imaginative child.Parts where a little slow, as it as just a girl walking lost through the woods but it was done very well and kept the reader interested in what will happen to this young girl and her road in surviving.Patricia (Trisha) Mcfarlane is only 9 years old, but fairly bright for her age when her mother decides to take her and her sulky brother Pete into the woods for a hike.
I love Stephen King to begin with, but I think any one - even people who don't like his style or genre typically - would like this book.
It's a great, simple story about the power of the human will to survive and the strength of the human spirit - it's bravery, humor, resilience and ingenuity - in the face of great obstacles.
It is really a fantastic book for anyone who has, or is, going through a tough time.
The plot is very simple - a young 11 year old girl gets lost in the woods in Maine.
It's a great 'girl power' book without being cheesy.
It has been a long time since a story has had me wanting to flip to the last page to make sure everything turns out all right. I resisted the urge, and for that I am grateful. One of Sai King’s best in my opinion.
4/5 stars “The world had teeth and it could bite you with them anytime it wanted.”  Girl gets lost in a forest. That's already a scary premise to me, as I'm someone who has absolutely no navigational skills (don't even get me started on what's left and right). But Stephen King has to take it that one step further, making it creepier and increasing the horrifying stakes. This means that the novel practically made my heart stop many times, out of both suspense and fear. I've also come to realise t
She knows that it's probably just her imagination and paranoia, but she has a strong feeling that she isn't alone in the woods and that if she doesn't make it out alive, the being following her would surely be her end.
I really love books in which the characters are pushed to physical and emotional extremes, and the plot of being lost in the woods for days really ties in with this.
As soon as I read that this book was about a girl lost in the wilderness I was satisfied, but Stephen King didn't stop there.
Ein typischer King, der ein beklemmendes Gefühl verursacht. Ich fand die Geschichte nicht so stark wie andere des Autors, trotzdem hat sie mir gut gefallen. Ich konnte gut mit Trisha mitfühlen und konnte wirklich nachvollziehen wie es ihr geht, ganz alleine und verlassen, ohne Hoffnung!
This was a quick moving story about a young girl stranded in the woods.
There's only so much that can happen in these types of stories that come down to a single character stuck in a bind, but King pulls it off with great storytelling, weaving in characters from the young girl's past as she thinks back on her normal life at home.
For me, what saved this book were all the baseball references.
As a lifelong baseball fan, there wasn't a term or reference I didn't know, and I remember watching Tom Gordon pitch as well.
It is at the same time a coming-of-age story; homage to baseball; an adventure and the battle with fear.When 9-year old Trisha makes the mistake of stepping off the Appalachian Trail and away from her mom and brother for a pee break, she gets lost in a big way.
To keep her company in the dark she has only her walkman, the love of the Red Sox, and their closing pitcher Tom Gordon.What I like about this little book is the feeling of being there with Trisha, that fear of being lost as a child in a big and sometimes scary place.
yada-yada-yada!Stephen King wrote 3 books about baseball, a novella called Blockade Billy later added in the short story collection The Bazaar of Bad Dreams.
Book on CD performed by Anne HecheA young girl who loves baseball (and particularly one Red Sox player) takes a few steps off the path when on a hike through the Appalachian Trail with her mother and older brother.
King is a master craftsman and he is never better than when playing on all our childhood (and adult) fears, magnifying them tenfold and letting his (and our) imagination carry us away.
She’s also young and makes some wrong decisions which get her farther into trouble.
But I don’t think I could fare half so well as young Trisha did.
