https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4947464-complete-works-of-arthur-conan-doyle
As far as I can remember, I have never enjoyed English literature more than I enjoyed the works of A. C. Doyle. That sums it all up.
As many consider Sigmund Freud as the father of psychology and Adam Smith the father of economy, I find Sir Arthur Conan Doyle the father of mystery and suspense.
Exceptional writing.
You know I DO love a good muh-duh...
Favourite author and favourite stories of my life.
If you love a good mystery, you might like this book. Sherlock Holmes has very unique methods of solving crimes.
Conan is the greatest novelist alive ! Alive by the enormous works he did, the compelling stories he wrote and the elegance of his style.
One of the best writers I have ever come across.
Arthur Conan Doyle is campy but fun. I particularly enjoy reading the historical footnotes to get a glimpse into not only 19th century London, but into both Doyle and his fantastical Sherlock's minds.
LOVED THIS Collection!!!Included: A Study in Scarlet, The Sign of Four, A Scandal in Bohemia, The Re
Twin works - The Adventure of the Speckled Band and The Hound of Baskerville explicates, science-wise, wherefore Sir Arthur Conan Doyle a spiritual arden became (in his twilight years).See the way those double mysteries merge twi an exotic com romantic context, that thru them is twice its solution solved scientifically, yet its setting found in the linking context above.For what could source and or a-force a-science (figuratively) funneling thru to solution, but those outer limits beyond, connecting superbly unknowably, still scientifically yet mysteriously - those twin works.His merged magnum opus those twin works.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle has long been one of my most favorite authors since childhood for I bore & still carry great affinity for his wonderful fictitious creation Sherlock Holmes. I do deep in these ever enchanting stories even now. I pay my homage to the Great Sherlock Holmes & its Creator Sir Doyle.
First read these books as a child and have been rereading ever since. The characters are irresistible and now there are no new stories I look for new pastiche to get my fix. Everybody should read these.
It took a month of solid reading to complete, think I should've had a few breaks!
Reading "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" from this massive, omnibus edition. The game is afoot! :D
mystery
O melhor que eu ja li.
Completely and utterly a fan of ALL of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's work (Sherlock Holmes).
If you read all works by Conan Doyle like me, you must definitely read this biography which as pure delight! Indeed this man was a genius!!
Great Stuff.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was truly an absolutely brilliant writer with a very clever imagination.Greatly loved and sadly missed.RIP.CyPoet~<3 3/11/14
Perfect, charming, and, as Holmes would say, instructive. I'm very sad that there's no more Sherlock Holmes to read.
The best compilation of Sherlock Holmes Mysteries! One of my prized editions!
Love Sherlock
Holmes is the boss.
Absolutely amazing.
Finished "A Study in Scarlet" and thoroughly enjoyed it.
Amazing writing and brilliant deductions.
