https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12287209-wool
I realize this is a short story and it continues on, but if you're going to sell me a book it needs to feel whole.Normally when a story features a husband and wife and something happens to one of them I'm a ball of emotions, but this couple's relationship felt flat and mechanical.
I didn't love this story but Howey dangled just enough in front of me that I might want to find out what happens next, but honestly I don't think I'll ever care enough to continue.
In Hugh Howey’s post-apocalyptic tale, Wool (Book 1), the stage is set to unravel the mysteries of living in this silo.
Through an investigation by the silo’s sheriff, Holston, we learn something of the circumstances of his wife’s death as well as a little bit about this community (which is really its own world).
All the same, I thought this first installment in the series was slow to get started; however, there is a buildup of suspense regarding the whole silo community which is intriguing.
Howey does set up an interesting post-apocalyptic (and for now self-contained) world.
A Badass Hidden Gem...http://badassbookreviews.com/badass-h...OMG, this short story was absolutely fantastic. Who is this author and why is he not on everyone's radar. Must read, don't think about it, it's a short story and won't take up much of your time and I think it's only 99 cents, just go get it! Hurry...go.......why are you still reading this...goooooGo now...
Wool by Hugh Howey is a short but worthy read.
The author masterfully conveys the feeling of desperation, doom, and unrest that stem from questionably voluntary living/imprisonment in the confines of a giant concrete underground shelter in the toxic world, as well as the overpowering need and drive to find out whether there is truth in the faint but forbidden hope that there just may be something better outside.
For such a short book, the themes are very well-developed.
The bleak and terrifying world of Wool is somehow addictive, and I want to find out more!
Short at some 49 pages – and its got my attention.The remnants of mankind live in a giant circular Silo going into the ground – outside is an uninhabitable waste with toxic corrosive air.
We aren’t really told what’s happened.
Problem - the cameras need to be cleaned.
Problem - going outside is a death sentence.
Can’t sucker punch this smart cookie.
But I was well and truly sucker punched.
And what’s more – Howey used my own scepticism against me to do it.
And now I’ve got to get to the next book because I still haven’t wrapped my head around what just happened.
(view spoiler)[(For example, if it is so important to clean the cameras, and if they have suits that allow people to finish cleaning the cameras before harm befalls them - then why wait until someone is condemned to death to clean them?!?!
So one star for the beginning and end, four stars for the middle, for an average grade of two stars.Only recommended if you have curiosity about self-published works that are hit by the zeitgeist lightning, and you are a fast reader so you don't waste too much time on this slight, over-written and cliched story.
Yet I stumbled upon this one (thanks to GR friends of mine that I saw had given good ratings).We saw a dystopian world, a scared terrified crowd, a manipulative goverment and a great an everlasting love.
I mean, it was already there when we started reading, we never saw it being born, yet it was not at all less powerful.
I do have some questions about the world building but it never bothered me while reading the book.
Yet I cannot imagine what could be happening in the second book...It's not long, actually like a mini story so read it.
I want to go out. I want to go out. I wanttogoout.  4.5 stars. Holy _____ . You can choose which word to insert there but you might want to pick something much stronger than cow. Because the word I'm thinking is pretty strong with a lot of caps and exclamation points following it.People (ahhh...yes, the very abstract and almost imaginary use of "people") have been telling me to read this short for a while now. I should have been listening sooner. Btw... Wool is a very condensed little read. It
Because the word I'm thinking is pretty strong with a lot of caps and exclamation points following it.People (ahhh...yes, the very abstract and almost imaginary use of "people") have been telling me to read this short for a while now.
It's worth the try (especially if you like dystopia) because there's no risk when something is this short.
Information is limited as to what's going on "out there." Your wife went crazy trying to figure it out.
You feel like you're going crazy trying to know yourself.
"Anything too tight?" Holston glanced around the airlock.
My life is too tight, he wanted to say.
Have you ever felt guilty about not liking a book?
I had this book for seven, SEVEN months and this is my fifth attempt at reading it.
The writing doesn't grip me at all.
I can see how there would be troves of people who like this book.
I wanted to like this book so bad, too.
The writing just bored me to tears.
The storyline is right up my alley, but the way the author phrased things made me feel like I am attending an Entmoot.
To all those lovely people who wanted to chat about Wool, alas I am sorry to say....
Why did they insist that the work of cleaning sensors be done by the banished, when they appeared to have the technology for brief expeditions into the outside world (which without the fake visor images would have only served to further justify their practice of staying in the silo all of the time)?
I just can't see how thinking that the silo society is deceiving itself would make a banished person want to clean the sensors.
After all, by cleaning the sensors which display the false wasteland, the banished would be making himself complicit in this deception.
Set some time in the future, we learn that all of humanity is housed in a silo below ground and that nobody can survive the toxic environment outside.
In no time at all she too is set to cleaning and this is where things get interesting.
People of the silo start asking questions and there is a sense that the community has had the wool pulled over their eyes by their leaders.
Are there other living humans outside the confines of the silo?Wool is the first book in the trilogy and I could easily continue.
At 49 pages long, the tale can be read in a single sitting, and more than likely you will do just that, because you will find yourself immediately getting sucked into this one from the first paragraph.In this post apocalyptic world, a remnant of mankind lives in a giant circular silo.
That is because outside lies quick death by toxic air.Hidden in their small silo, the only view of the outside that these survivors are allowed is a large tv screen fed from several cameras outside.
But the only way to be sure is to do the unthinkable: follow her outside!This was one of those stories that lived up to its hype.
First three installments of this dystopian series are FREE today for Kindle. Fantastic reviews and ratings for this author, sounds like it's worth checking out!Thanks to Michelle for the nudge. :)
Going into this, I knew this novella was meant to hook the reader into the Wool series.
Oftentimes characters are what draws a reader into a series.
In this case, I haven't that sense of attachment or wanting to move forward, mainly because (view spoiler)[ at the end, the main characters are both dead  (hide spoiler)] - which can work for a standalone short story, but not a novel series.
The underground world in Wool is less richly drawn.
So, for the world ambiance, Wool was okay -- 2.5 stars.
4.5 stars! I loved this book and looking forward to continuing the trilogy.
It's a wonder they actually complete their cleanings before going off over the hill, but somehow, they always do.Three years ago, Sheriff Holston's wife dug up some things from deleted computer files that led her to believe that they haven't been told the truth about the outside from their leaders, and expressed the one thing that would immediately evict her from their society - her desire to go outside.
So, Sheriff Holston watched her leave and hoped she'd return for him as she promised.
But, she didn't, and so Sheriff Holston decides it's time for him to follow her.
(Imagine that a deeply shocked, whoa...)I had no idea that a short could make me feel like that...How can a book you can read in a 1/2 hour really make you feel such strong emotion?
I mean, how else are you going to find enough time to really know who they are and connect to them on that certain level?
Well, I've come to realize that other times all it takes is a really great writer.
These people know how to write a short that still packs a punch.What a story.
I want to know why!
Great little story that I suspect will stick with me for a while.
It was hard while reading it not to get too caught up in a guessing game about how things would unfold.
The writing style is nicely descriptive and the story itself is engaging and memorable.
Highly recommended.Memorability Factor: 9/10::::::::::::::::UPDATE:::::::::::::::::::::::This turned out to be one of my favorite reads of 2012.
The are currently running an art contest on Facebook for art made by fans, inspired by WOOL.
No I am not going to be spammy and seek votes, but I thought it would be fun to include the pictures here.If you haven't read this yet, I suggest you get on it already.
Most refreshing to find a dystopian tale that is not YA. This one grabbed my attention right away, and I have already purchased the omnibus. Interest officially piqued!
The absolute best in apocalyptic short stories! Dystopian, post-apocalyptic, horror - take your pick, this little tale covers it all. I would LOVE to see more from this author, and from this scary, scary world!**Edit & update - There IS more! I've picked up WOOL 2, 3, & 4, and Mr. Howey informs me WOOL 5 should be out sometime in February. Go now, my pretties, and pick up tales 1-4. The Genius demands it!
I read this novella for two reasons.
The kind of fun that only a decent post-apoc and creepy dystopian story can deliver.
One of my favorite kinds of literary fun.
The set up to the story is simple as the novella is only 59 pages.
I do not want to give anything away; the story is dystopian (taking place in a very limited society after a post-apoc event) so readers can assume there will be a delightful twist at the end.
This is a quick read due to both its length and the fast pace of the text.
I plan to read #2.
This looks like a fantastic beginning to a dystopian Science Fiction ditty that could turn into a saga. I look forward to reading the omnibus edition. The writing is emotive, the plot intriguing, and the characters sympathetic. So far. I have high hopes for unraveling the rest of Hugh Howey's Wool.
4.5 stars.This short little novella is a quick read with a steady build up of suspense. I audibly gasped a few times at the turns it took. I look forward to the rest of the series.
Do any of you really totally trust your government?Being surrounded on all sides by a poisoned world...( yes it's been done to death 1000 times) would drive me out there to kill myself eventually as well, BUT...
Funny how these "little internal wars" happen at just the right time to adjust the population, and rid the silos of the curious IT intelligencia who discover the reason for the uprisings, hidden in the computers memories.
A way to control a certain number of the population in a vertical space that would be a very small footprint on our planet.
Well, I won't be continuing this series after becoming privy to some information I had no knowledge of before. It's really too bad, because this is a series I would have enjoyed. But, at this very moment after reading a certain blog, this is now how I feel:
5 StarsWhat a great start to what I hope is a great series. This very short book one is smaller than most novella's, but it still manages to throw in some background and some world building. I loved the post apocalyptic setup and the state of society. Howey even manages to throw in some cool twists.
This is a short book, around 60 pages, and well worth the read if you have an hour to spare.
I've read books that are more than four times as long with less going on than WOOL.
Besides the story, what I liked the best about WOOL was how immediately familiar such a barren world felt.
Living underground is a commonly used theme in post-apocalyptic fiction.
For its ingenuity and great storytelling, 4 STARS and highly recommended, especially for people who like post-apocalyptic settings.
Very nice, if melancholy.Highly recommended.
Set in the distant future, the world outside is toxic.
Though they have no reason to, they all seem to take the time to clean the monitors, allowing those inside a glimpse of a world they once knew.
After cleaning, they inevitably walk a small distance away to die.
Their decaying bodies remind all inside what awaits them out there.That is, of course, until one of the cleaners walks away.Set in the near future, the WOOL series is an exploration of humanity and hope as we follow the rise and fall of the inevitable.
A great plot supported by writing that effectively takes you to a future time in its convincing detail. I am already starting the rest of the series!
