https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31434883-eleanor-oliphant-is-completely-fine
At any rate, I am so happy I read it.I LOVED THIS BOOK !!Just like it says in the title of the book, Eleanor Oliphant is completely fine....well she thinks she is.
I really want to write about what happened but I think I would spoil a very funny moment for many readers.Things don't go exactly as planned.When her computer at work stops working she meets Raymond from IT.
But after work one day Eleanor and Raymond come across a man who has fallen on the sidewalk.
I never felt like I was laughing AT Eleanor but at the things she said or the situations she ended up in.
I was completely unprepared for the life of Eleanor Oliphant and that of her ‘Mummy.” To be frank, I was ill-equipped to deal with it, much like Eleanor.
At thirty years-old, Eleanor Oliphant is alone in this world.
In and out of foster care since she was a little girl, she has never been touched by anyone in a loving way and doesn’t even know what that would feel like, but that’s ok.
Both Eleanor and Raymond see a man (named Samuel), go down on the sidewalk and they go have a look see and discover that he needs an ambulance.
I'll be honest - I picked it up because it got some buzz and the author is British, but it actually turned out to be one of those perfectly-balanced sad/funny books.
Maybe like some combination of The Rosie Project, Me Before You, Finding Audrey and A Man Called Ove. It takes a serious, traumatic issue and weaves it into a warm, funny and, yes, sometimes sad tale.I read a lot of books and many characters come and go.
I am thankful that the author didn't cure Eleanor and lead her out of the darkness by having her fall in love.
It's Mother's Day, and my family handed me bath salts and my new book and told me to go for it.
According to Eleanor, she has "white contours of scar tissue that slither across my right cheek." Here's where I just about threw the book.
Explain how scar tissue slithers across a face.
Eleanor hangs up phones quietly.
How does the air go dead?If you want to read about a WAY more adorable person with Asperger's.
If you want to read about a WAY more delightful curmudgeon, go find Olive Kitteridge.I saved myself from drowning by stopping at page 50.
But, by most people’s standards, I’d say not.When you first meet her, it’s hard not to feel overwhelmingly sad for Eleanor.
She figures landing her soulmate is going to require some work—new hair, clothes and maybe even a little makeup to hide her facial scarring.
Gail Honeyman balances the heavy—and there’s a lot here, so be prepared—with humor and hope; taking readers on a journey right along with Eleanor.
From broken soul to a woman on a mission to live life, Eleanor's is an inspiring story, one I know I’m better for reading.
From there we follow Eleanor and Raymond’s budding friendship, and we realise just how ‘not fine’ Eleanor truly is.
“I was thirty years old, I realised, and I had never walked hand in hand with anyone.
No one had ever rubbed my tired shoulders, or stroked my face.” All of us have felt alone at some point in our lives, Eleanor’s story serves as a reminder that we are a lot more alike than we realise.
A bit of kindness can go such a long way, friendship can truly be life saving.
If someone asks you how you are, you are meant to say FINE. You are not meant to say that you cried yourself to sleep last night because you hadn't spoken to another person for two consecutive days. FINE is what you say. Ohhh, I could not wish for a more perfect book.Eleanor Oliphant is an office manager at a company. She's worked there for years and yet...she's never fit in.The other girls at the office like to whisper and giggle - oftentimes at Eleanor - and the rest of them just think she's
If someone asks you how you are, you are meant to say FINE.
Ohhh, I could not wish for a more perfect book.Eleanor Oliphant is an office manager at a company.
She's worked there for years and yet...she's never fit in.The other girls at the office like to whisper and giggle - oftentimes at Eleanor - and the rest of them just think she's plain weird.
Raymond manages to get a peek at what's underneath Eleanor's shell...and he might just be able to pull her back before she really goes too far.
After reading this one - I feel like I need to sleep for a week!Gail Honeyman expertly weaves a story steeped with humor and love.
Thank you for being a literary character that will live forever in the hearts of (most) anyone that reads you.
Effortless writing that flows naturally fast, even though Eleanor O prefers to use crossword type clues as actual everyday language.
I just need it to be the right kind of writing (GOOD, NOT cheesy).
Eleanor O, on the other hand, is real.This is the right kind of everything.
Thank you, Ms. Honeyman, for writing it.
I actually feel sad for other books that try so hard to achieve the big feels and don't even come close to Eleanor Oliphant.
I'd rate this 4.5 stars.I'll admit, when I started reading Gail Honeyman's debut novel,  Eleanor Oliphant is Completely Fine , I thought about issuing a moratorium on quirky characters who can't seem to pick up social cues or are oblivious to how people usually behave when interacting with peers, coworkers, those who provide service, and others. Obviously these are colorful characters to write about—it seems as if the literary world is full of them.But the more time I spent with Eleanor Oliphant
, I thought about issuing a moratorium on quirky characters who can't seem to pick up social cues or are oblivious to how people usually behave when interacting with peers, coworkers, those who provide service, and others.
Obviously these are colorful characters to write about—it seems as if the literary world is full of them.But the more time I spent with Eleanor Oliphant, I realized that her behavior was more the result of circumstance than will, nurture if you will, rather than nature.
She still acts the way she believes to be appropriate, and says things that most wouldn't, but she begins liking the feeling of belonging, of companionship, which she never realized she wanted."Some people, weak people, fear solitude.
I had an especially visceral reaction when (view spoiler)[ she is at the concert and suddenly feels disgusted with herself when she realizes she's been projecting this whole time and created a fantasy in her head and just feels foolish  (hide spoiler)] because come on who hasn't had a moment like that.
The only thing that annoyed me was the ending when (view spoiler)[ we find out her mother isn't alive she was imagining it  (hide spoiler)] because it felt unnecessary and I didn't think we needed a plot twist like it kind of ruined all her conversations with her mom for me a little bit.
She has few social skills, is very matter of fact, has no friends, few filters and has a schedule that she keeps to, a job she likes and insists she is fine.
Plus it is difficult to take a book with so few characters, and not only make it interesting enough to keep the reader immersed, but to let us see the way Eleanor changes and grows throughout the story.
There are a few places where the author could have gone overboard on sweetness but she kept true to the character of Eleanor and just managed to stay on the border, without crossing over.
I mean I guess I physically took this book all over the place since I read it on my phone and also listened to the audiobook.
I should go for more things in life.
Taking risks and reading books without knowing too much about them.Life is also about other things, too.
Some of those other life things can be found in the pages of this book.
Others can’t be found in any book because they just have to be experienced in, you know, real life.
So here’s another book for me to recommend.
If I recommend anything, it’s worth your time.
At first it’s easy to think that Eleanor is just a quirky social misfit with no friends and no social life and she is, but I soon found out that there is so much more to Eleanor and so much more to learn about her.
It’s a lonely life she leads and she says everything is fine but we learn eventually that it isn’t, and that life hasn’t ever been fine.
I didn’t get to it right away because I really thought it was just another quirky book and I couldn’t have been more wrong.
No, of course this book is not about elephants, but the writer sometimes plays with words--and that alone is a selling point for me.
Maybe it's sort of like subliminal advertising, except the author isn't trying to sell us elephants.
(In fact, the author makes a pun once, referring to an Oliphant in the room.) And like an elephant, Eleanor Oliphant indeed fills the room, even though she would prefer that no one see her, that everyone leave her alone.
Update.....I found a copy in my notes from last year ---Here is the review I wrote right after I read it.
I realize - almost a year later I can still remember so much about this story: ELEANOR is a terrific character ...
Even GROWS on you!!!Eleanor Oliphant, almost 30 years old, is one of those odd characters we think we may have seen before in our books --- lonely - awkward - lacking social skills.
Eleanor had been stuck in ways she didn't even have the eyes to see - let alone do anything about it.But it's Raymond -his goodness- that ultimately helps Eleanor mend her broken heart....by helping her face areas of her painful childhood she has avoided.
Society has kept her fed, clothed and educated, but unloved.Mummy's phone calls are hurtful and abusive.
Mummy tells Eleanor that she's let people down, can't be trusted and that her facial scars show the past living on her face.
Eleanor decides to change her outward appearance to attract dreamy rock musician, Johnnie Lomond.Raymond,a co-worker from the IT department of her office, starts a budding friendship with Eleanor after both of them assist an accident victim.
Through Raymond's kindness and ministrations, Eleanor's inner emotions and feelings slowly start to emerge.
Confronting her past will enable her to change the trajectory of her life.Eleanor Oliphant had a tumultous, mindboggling upbringing.
Thank you, Gail Honeyman for creating such a wonderfully, unique character that is Ms. Eleanor Oliphant.
Therefore, I will simply say, that this novel is a character study of a woman, that is so unique, that I couldn't properly give a summation of her in words.
This book, however, was not just rainbows and lollipops..it was much, much more.
(view spoiler)[There was a MAJOR plot twist at the end that dealt with her relationship with her mother and I was like OH MY ?!?!
I have read a couple books recently about "mother dearest" issues.
(hide spoiler)]Very, very good book.
Here is a novel at the exact room temperature everyone likes, not too cold, not to hot, just right, it’s like Goldilocks finding the right bed, everybody jumps in and goes right off to sleep, no one has a bad word to say, the Guardian loved it, the Irish Times said it “hits the accessible literary sweet spot”, Costa Book Prize, Reece Witherspoon to star in the movie, five stars rain down upon Eleanor Oliphant on Goodreads until she can no longer be seen, buried beneath tons of billowy love.
Although they do eventually become friends, Eleanor has her sights set on someone else – far more glamourous, exciting, and sophisticated.When her world takes a nose dive, she is wise enough to know it is because of her own poor decisions based on influences from her past, and she takes brave measures to turn her life around with help from her friend Raymond.
This one is going straight to my Favourites shelf, and I know that if ever I need inspiration, all I need do is think about Eleanor Oliphant!
She then goes through counseling and things come together and she remembers everything thathappened in her traumatic pastShe then meets Raymond and things start to change for her, she finally meets a friend.
She then goes through counseling and things come together and she remembers everything that happened in her traumatic past.
I just loved Eleanor.My ThoughtsThis book really made me feel so many emotions!!
I just loved Eleanor.It was a slow burn but the book started building suspense when I read about her scar on her face and had to find out why.
If I’m ever unsure as to the correct course of action, I’ll think, ‘What would a ferret do?’ or ‘How would a salamander respond to this situation?’ Invariably, I find the right answer.”Approaching 30 years old, Eleanor is a charming, quirky, socially naïve, emotionally awkward young woman who leads a lonely life, she has worked in the same office for eight years now, in the same job, a finance clerk.
I'm starting to get a little concerned here because so far, 2018 has bestowed upon me nothing but amazing books and I fear I'm going to have to pay for this streak of good luck at a later date.
😌Eleanor completely snuck up on my emotions and her story overall touched me in ways that I never expected.
I became so attached to her that when I was nearing the end I dreaded reading the book because I wasn't ready to say goodbye yet.
Enter, Eleanor Oliphant is Completely Fine.
What a beautiful rollercoaster.Tell me emotional punches don't sound enticing.
It is a no-brainer, read the book!
A fearful, incurable thing, so horrifying that you dare not mention it; other people don’t want to hear the word spoken aloud for fear that they might too be afflicted, or that it might tempt fate into visiting a similar horror upon them."I couldn’t help but think that the above presumption somehow rings quite true in this day and age.
There were some things that bugged me while reading this - a number of inconsistencies in Eleanor’s character, for example.
I’ve heard a lot of good things about “Eleanor Oliphant is Completely Fine, “ but I must admit I was somewhat reluctant to read it.
(How good could she be?) I decided to give Eleanor half an hour, but after only ten minutes of reading I was totally hooked and my reluctance and skepticism were thrown out the window.
Finish whatever you’re currently reading and without delay start “Eleanor Oliphant is Completely Fine.” All those rave reviews are right - Gail Honeyman is an exceptional author and this is a novel not to be missed.Thank you to Penguin Viking and NetGalley for an advance copy of this book.
But the more I read, the more I wanted to know about Eleanor.
Though she took me a while to warm up to, I really got to know her and like her as a person.
I identified and connected with Eleanor on a personal level because I too, know what the darkness feels like; the hollowness and loneliness.
I found myself thinking of Eleanor when I wasn't reading, and then would want to pick it up just so that I could be a part of her thoughts and her day.
Oh Eleanor, I desperately wanted to reach into this story and hug you (even though a hug would be extremely awkward for you) and welcome your quirky self into my life!Eleanor’s journey took me on a roller coaster ride of emotions.
Eleanor is obliviously socially awkward.
Eleanor’s inner thoughts (and often her outspoken words) had me giggling throughout every chapter.
While reading this book, I couldn’t help comparing it to the quirkiness of The Rosie Project which I absolutely loved.
I just couldn’t help but smile and melt at Eleanor’s rationalizations for each of her thoughts and actions.
4.5 stars (rounded to 5 stars)I passed on this book when it first came out, but after seeing all the 4 and 5 star ratings from my Goodreads friends I decided to give it a go.It took a while for me to connect with the story.
Who needs friends and family when you are completely fine without them, right?Then she unexpectedly finds herself in a situation where she thinks she might like to impress somebody.
I love learning new words.
Most of all, it is one of those few books one reads that is truly unforgettable.
I highly recommend Eleanor Oliphant is Completely Fine to all.
I loved this book.
I finished reading it whilst I was at a cafe and realised how much of a trance I was in when I looked up and noticed my surroundings.
The tone of the book is quiet, steady and slowly reveals her life to the reader.
You can sense something traumatic has happened, but you're unsure, because Eleanor is unsure.
Slowly, it is uncovered, and thus this is the journey we follow.In between all of that, we look at her life.
The story looks at the concept of loneliness extremely well.
It was painful to follow Eleanor on this realisation that she was alone.
Except, sometimes, everything...This is a sad and at the same time, strangely enough a fun story.
I read a quote on the cover "A story about the very worst and very best that humans are capable of...
It's a pretty tragic story about Eleanor Oliphant, a lonely peculiar lady with a severely damaged personality due to her past.
A loner, at the office and in her life in general and that's the sad basis of this story.
At the same time, the story is quirky, funny, heart warming and tender.
A moving story with a twist at the end....and let's say Eleanor learns how to live with a little help...
the book blurb did not sound interesting to me in the least, so i probably shouldnt have picked it up to read just because everyone else was.next, eleanor drove me up the wall.
and i am definitely one of those people who if they dont like the character, then the book will be a massive struggle.
especially because this story is almost completely character driven.
theres not a whole lot going on the with the plot, so what drives most people to finish the book is desperately wanting to know ‘what happened to eleanor?’ and i did too, but not because i cared about eleanor as a character.
