https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1963638.The_Untethered_Soul
Perhaps it is true that there is nothing new under the sun; that the same truths just get said in myriad ways that appeal to people at different places on the spiritual journey.
If that is true, then what Singer does in this book is to synthesize those truths in a way that are direct, crystal clear, and uniquely graspable.
Most of us will never attain their ability to feel the deepest levels of spiritual transcendence, but we can, though a lifetime of development, develop the capacity to have moments of transcendence that give us the wisdom to carry on in a life that, at times, can be maddeningly inscrutable.
Meh. The first couple of chapters were good.
The part about how people trap themselves by self-limiting thoughts and rigid views / perceptions of life, the world, people, success, etc.
I can totally buy into eliminating negative thoughts, being compassionate toward everyone, limiting knee-jerk emotional responses, and so on, but this book makes like the goal in life is becoming the world's best amoeba - float around for a while, see some shit, view it all neutrally, don't steer,.
After a few chapters the book became completely redundant and tedious.
This may be the last and only book you need to read to truly understand who you really are and how to be truly free.
The more time you (soul, spirit, observer you) can spend watching what your "monkey mind" is doing and saying, the more you can be free to enjoy life as it unfolds.
This book is short and very easy to read.
The less seriously I take my mind's likes, dislikes, must haves and mustn't allows, the happier and more relaxed I am.
Then read this book!
It is clearly one that has resonated with so many people and changed lives, but sadly it fell completely flat with me.
I'm suspicious of authors who claim it is possible to live life free of worries, problems, and unhappiness.
This author makes such claims throughout the book and many times indicates that freedom from suffering should be the goal of the spiritual journey.
To me the book reads like a long-winded, disorganized, repetitive lecture on how the reader should be living his life.
If the book has helped you to find happiness and live a more peaceful life, then wonderful!
Just finished reading this book. While much of what the book says is true, much of it is soft soap and pleasantries that offer no real insight. Skip the book and read the following sentence that says the exact same thing in roughly 1/282,293,389 th of the time "Let go of things that are past and look forward to the future in a positive light". Seriously... That's all the book says. If offers very little in "how". If you like the Buddhist/Hindu style of thinking, skip this book and go read Lao Tzu. At least he is a poet.
However, whenever I find myself in a bookstore coffee shop with a day to kill, I grab something from the self-help section for old-time's sake just to remind myself either 1) How I ever gained so much comfort from books like these or 2) Why I tend to no longer read them.
I've learned over the years that the perpetual answer to this question, with or without having given the voice a body, is 'No', but there's something to be said for being reminded occasionally of how absurd our mental narrator can be in relating observations and expectations to reality.Having become well-versed in how astonishingly self-defeating one's thoughts can be, I flew through the book in a couple of hours because it's quite well-written.
High school can be a very peaceful place when you are the only one there at midnight.But when my husband eyes my plate and says, "I thought you already had dessert," letting go ceases to be a deep cleansing breath, and instead looks more like a plate flying through the air.When Tiffany down at the post office said she didn't think this color was flattering for my hair (I don't dye it), letting go gave our small town newspaper editor a new story for the front page.
The feature on bunions had to be moved to page two.I gave the Untethered Soul two stars because it has truly been an inspiration to me in finding creative ways to "let go." I have toned and strengthened my upper arms.
I'm a Yoga teacher and have read a lot of philosophical texts and spiritual books and have been working on this self-help stuff for a while.
If I read this book twice a year, I'll have a better life experience, no doubt, already do.
It's absolutely genius what he is saying--that stuff can get gummed up around the heart and we build a protective reality to add to this state of congestion ...
and it's absolutely draining and sucking our lives away!!!Since I started reading the book, I have had trouble sleeping but have NOT been upset about it.
This book actually changed me for what I once thought was the better.
Recently I have realized that it wasn't for the better at all.
It made me believe that emotions were optional, and that we can actually be happy all the time.
I thought it possible for awhile, until I eventually realized that I was just suppressing all of the "unhappy" feelings and was building up negative feelings inside me.
I would not recommend this book to anyone who wants to be happily in touch with their emotions, because this book will manipulate your mind and make you believe you are "free" when really, you're confined.
Wasn't doing it for me. I remain tethered.
On the back cover of this New York Times Bestseller is the question "who are you really?" Before I read this book, I would have answered, "I am my thoughts, opinions, actions, experiences, and memories" or "I am a 39-year old wife, daughter, aunt, and friend." After reading The Untethered Soul: The Journey Beyond Yourself I realize that the answer is more philosophical and complex than all that.
Singer, "you not only have the ability to find yourself, you have the ability to free yourself."I'm attracted to books on mindfulness because in the last few years I've realized that, like so many people, I'm in danger of losing myself in my thoughts.
I read this book and a second highlighted reading last year, shortly after its release.
Singer succinctly states what all the other New Thought and Spiritual leaders/writers have written volumes on.
I am a great fan of Tolle, Jean Houston, Chopra, Butterworth, Dyer, Zukav, et al, but Singer delivered the normal big thoughts with such brevity and determined direction, and simplicity and lightness.
I saw his interview on the Super Soul Sunday series, after my first reading (2012) and that reinforced what I had thought about him - he is the human we all are.
He doesn't pretend to know more than what the rest of us know about spirit and soul and beingness.
This gem of a book was transformational for me. It offers insights for developing an awareness of negative, limiting thoughts and energy, for realizing that we don’t have to absorb or cling to them. We can let them go; they are not who we are. This is the book I most often give to others.
He encourages us to get to the place where we can be the "observer" and watch that voice.It sounds easy, but it is not.
Singer says:"When a problem is disturbing you, don't ask "What should I do about it?" Ask, "What part of me is bring disturbed by this?" When I let go and observe the situation, rather than losing myself in it,my life changes."The only real solution is to take the seat of witness consciousness and completely change your frame of reference...Stand firm in the seat of the witness and release the hold the habitual mind has on you.
Michael's heart chakra is momentarily clogged by the repressed memory of a bike-riding girl in third grade who he had a crush on, but she didn't like him back and yelled at him to stop following her home every day, so he has to practice his let it go mantra and it works immediately.
Rita's heart chakra is momentarily clogged by a repressed memory of someone else yelling at her at another time, but she also engages in some introspection and asks, "I wonder why THIS cyclist yelled at me," and then notices that the front of her car is over the line for the crosswalk and the cyclist was about to cross the street but became afraid when the car didn't stop where it was supposed to.
Instead I'll bring up the parts of this work that I found relevant in hopes of you reading further into it beyond this review.Singer's main premise is what our Self is not.
Further, the more focused our Self becomes on specifics, the less quiet the mind and heart are.
The mind and heart lead one to confusion as suddenly their job becomes protecting that specific from other energy flows that may pass through us and bump up against it.
We create walls and in doing so, our Self becomes lost behind them and all the noise of the heart and mind.
I love this book, it is easily one of my favorite self-help books.
I love reading it in the morning or afternoon because it actually gives me energy and puts me in a good mood.
It's a book that's hard to put down, and you fly through the pages.
But sometimes I like to go back and re-read some pages because you really need to absorb what you're reading in order to get the most out of it.
Long story short, LOVE this book and recommend it to EVERYONE.
Excellent book. I read it at about the same time as I read The New Earth by Eckhart Tolle and I found to have very similar themes - so if you enjoyed The New Earth you will enjoy this one too. Very deeply spirtual book with very heavy Buddhist leanings but I think that they are principles that could be applied within any religion. I think it's one of those books you would want to keep on hand and it could have different meanings for you each time you read and depending on where you are in your life.
And it couldn't have come to me at a better time & I will often refer back to it for guidance.
This books has helped me realize how much destruction I am creating for myself by the walls I have built around me and the resistance I have for obstacles in life.
In addition to learning about the barriers I have created for myself, I feel so equipped to deal with all future road blocks.
The author helps you work through pain, both past, present, & future.
Ultimately this book is a guide in finding and living with peace & happiness in your life, all the time.
Singer is the guide as we explore these questions.
We are introduced to the spiritual path of non resistance and unconditional happiness, paths which should be walked regularly by everyone.Every page of this book is a joy to read, Singer's compassion and peacefullness abounds.
There is an accessability to these words that I have not found in other books of the same nature, in fact I felt drawn to it time and time again.
I have read this book twice and each time gained a different insight into both my own true nature and the absolute inanity of the world we live in.
A whole lot of dumbed-down, Eastern-themed chatter that can be summarized thusly: 1) you are not your thoughts, and 2) cultivate a mindfulness practice. Maybe I should renew my license and start charging people for terse, grumpy talk therapy. "Yep, that constant narration in your head is a real bummer. Why don't you concentrate on existing solely as a being constantly perceiving rather than narrating the present? Doesn't that make you feel better? Don't answer that; it's narrative."
Singer's Untethered Soul carries with it an insight into our spirituality and relationship with God. I found it a greatly inspirational read.
You can't make it stop loving you.
You can't make the sun stop shining on you; you can only chooses not to look at it.
180) To know God, to be in a relationship with Him, we need to "let go." I always wondered what that meant exactly, and Singer not only helped clarify it but describes how to actually do it.
God is love, we are part of God. Let us all live in love and peace.Great lessons and good read.
This book had a strong start and then fell off. It discusses how the voices in your head can criticize you due to excess energy. All this time I thought my mother lived in my head posthumously to continue to criticize me.
The idea that I like the most from Eastern style thought is that resisting the way things are is crazy.
It resists what it doesn't understand and tries to explain it away or come up with elaborate justifications for why stuff doesn't fit in with The Way Things Should Be. It demands resolution to anything that doesn't fit my mental model and it creates areas in my mind that are forbidden or painful to visit then tries to push those areas away so they'll be uncovered as seldom as possible.
After a friend told me Singer's book is based on a series of lectures, the overlapping nature of the chapters made sense.Untethered Soul is a bit repetitive and the language is not very imaginative, but I appreciated its message: that we are not our thoughts or emotions, but rather who/what is observing them.
That we can be happier (I don't know about the ecstasy Singer promises) if we stay conscious of our relationship to our thoughts/emotions, let them happen and pass through us, and move on to the next moment.I find myself hypercritical of my thoughts now: why does my mind have to narrate/comment on everything I see?
Why won't my thoughts shut up?
The most enlightening book on spirituality I've EVER read in MY LIFE!
It completely opened me up to a new way of looking at EVERYTHING...
It gave me a new outlook on purpose and assisted me in beginning to understand this on-growing hunger I have to learn more about who am I?
What is my purpose and how will I achieve that life mission?
He teaches us how to stay open to life and to God, but more importantly how to RELEASE what isn't serving our lives purposefully.
If you're on a self-discovery journey, yourself; I HIGHLY RECOMMEND you read this book.
I had several of my biggest breakthroughs ever while I was studying this book. I found the true meaning of meditation and self and I learnt the significance of opening the heart and living life as a wonderful experience. If you seek true freedom and happiness, then this book is worth the read. I borrowed my copy, and I am putting this book on my list of purchases for my bookshelf.
The Untethered Soul is a spiritual journey that explains how you can transform your thoughts into more positive thinking while conquering and overcoming your fears and negativity.The book touches on such a wide variety of topics that will truly help readers that need some direction on how to handle inner thoughts and just life overall in a more positive light.
Singer also goes into explicit detail regarding how to let go of painful memories that prevent us from achieving ultimate happiness.The book is divided into five main sections: Awaking Consciousness, Experiencing Energy, Freeing Yourself, Going Beyond, and Living Life.
The chapter on death -- and why it is actually a gift -- was also eye-opening and a good reminder to try to live each day, each week as if it were our last, since it always could be.
I also appreciated the reminders to approach everyone with love and openness.
I wish Singer had addressed more practical issues such as these and how they fit into his philosophies.
This is a book that would be good to own and re-read from time to time.
Singer's book is a sort of how-to exhortation: How to let go of the voice in your head ...How to fall back behind the fear and negativity...How to rise up to the God within.How, you ask?
We can touch God and pure love and peace and joy and bliss.
And meditation helps to make us aware of our inner voices and our trigger pointsWell, even if the voices in my head spoke back to this text from time to time, ("It's not that easy, Man!")nevertheless, I have to admit I want to believe every uplifting, hopeful word of it, and I will be working on letting go and falling back and rising up...
