https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10084.River_of_Blue_Fire
Book 1 in the Otherland series was just interesting enough to continue and finally the ending ramps things up and I was actually entertained.
I get that this series is one long book to the author, but it's so absolutely boring I need something to happen and I start to expect it to at least be at the end of the book.
Things are constantly happening in that book.To add to the tedium, the characters are suddenly going from one "land" within this computer system called "Otherland" to another with no end in sight.
The story picks up straight after the ending of the previous book, and I really loved seeing the instant re-immersion.Some of the elements of this series which I most enjoy: - The blend of Sci-Fi & Fantasy elements into a convincing, bizarre and fun world filled with exciting scenes.- The characters - there are SO MANY great characters within this series from Renie & !Xabbu to Martine (who really developed a lot for me in this one with the addition of her diary entries and backstory) to Orlando and Fredricks (a gamer pair who are great friends) to Cristabel (a young girl and the narrative is told from her world-view so you see everything through a lens of innocence) to Paul (the lost wanderer) to all the others.
This is just the main characters being herded through sim after sim, with a few character in the real world having enough screen time to be reminded that they exist.
A character (Paul Jonas) or team of them (Rennie, !Xabbu) land in a sim word reminding us of something, sometimes blatantly.2.
Plot events that don't have any real resolution.5.
A very tiny amount of plot events that set up real difficulties.The problem with this is that there are three more books in the series.
But this is just a middle, filler novel, and is souring me on the series.
Executive Summary: Slow start, and many slow places throughout. The good parts make up for a lot of it, but for that reason I'm rounding my 3.5 stars down.Audio book: Another great job by George Newbern. He definitely  Full Review I really enjoyed the first book. Not so much for the characters, but for the setting and the cool ideas. I've always loved the idea of virtual worlds, and Mr. Williams made an excellent blend of Fantasy and Sci-Fi that seemed to hit my buttons in the right way.Unfortun
I've always loved the idea of virtual worlds, and Mr. Williams made an excellent blend of Fantasy and Sci-Fi that seemed to hit my buttons in the right way.Unfortunately, the the cool ideas of the first one weren't enough to overcome some slowness, and the characters were more important to my enjoyment of the book.
The most interesting plotline for me was probably Orlando, though Paul's story was pretty good as too.
I will definitely be picking up the third book once my audio time frees up a little.
I'm just hoping the pace of the story picks up in the next book.
They were lost, confused and had no way out.Oh yes - back before Neo got his clock punched by Agent Smith, Renie, !Xabbu, Orlando, Fredericks and all the other Otherland explorers discover that they are in more danger than they realize - if they die on the network, then they'll die in real life.
Orlando and Fredericks get sent off into a world more bizarre than any online gaming ever prepared them for; Renie and !Xabbu end up in a horribly twisted version of The Wizard of OZ, if Oz had invaded Kansas, taken over, and started a three-way fight between the Scarecrow, the Lion and the Tin Man.This leaves us with the third and largest group being somewhat less interesting than the others.
8/10In the second book of the series Tad Williams continues to impress as he has added more characte
This is a great series and the second book does not disappoint. I can't recommend this series highly enough.
I think I'll try to write a review for every book I read from now on.
With all this said: here is my first daily review, Otherland: River of Blue FirePROS: Similar to the first book, Otherland has managed to make me use my imagination is ways that I never have before.
For two whole books, all we've really gotten is the same old "rich and powerful want to take over the world" kinda of scenario.
Sure, we have a couple people who we're supposed to hate like Dread, and maybe Osiris.
I had a difficult getting into the first book of this series because of the incredible amount of detail and world building. I was also disappointed by the number of questions left unanswered. Well, the second book reaps the rewards of all the hard work in the first. This book flew by, and while it didn't answer all the questions put forth by the first (and raised several more), it answered enough to keep me interested.
Band 2 hat mir nicht ganz so gut wie der erste gefallen, das liegt aber vor allem daran, dass der Leser hier mehr Hintergrundinformationen erhält und die Handlungen langsam voran kommen. Spannend ist das Buch allerdings auch, und es hat auch einige Wendungen.Ich gebe 08/10 Punkte und freue mich auf Band 3http://sunsys-blog.blogspot.de/2017/0...
Audiobook from Penguin AudioNarrated by George NewbernLength: 24.5 hoursThe sequel to City of Golden Shadow and the 2nd book (of 4) in the Otherland series, River of Blue Fire is a solid "middle book" in the series.Picking up where City of Golden Shadow left off, this book moved the pieces of all the players in the story without seeming to progress the plot too much.
At the point that City of Golden Shadow left off, the "hero" group was somewhat divided, with Renie and Xabbu in one simulation, Orlando and Fredericks in another, and the rest of the "hero" group in yet another sim.
So was ist mir auch noch nie passiert :-) Williams erklärt ziemlich detailliert die Gründe, warum er keine runde Geschichte zwischen 2 Buchdeckeln abliefern konnte und quasi mitten im Satz als Cliffhanger aufgehört hat, und ich habe ihm sofort verziehen.Zum zweiten Teil der Otherland Saga kann man wirklich nur sagen, dass sich der Romanzyklus zu einem grandiosen Meisterwerk von epischer Breite auswächst und zu Recht als Herr der Ringe des 21.
Secondly, he takes a group of characters, four of which you are invested in and five you essentially know nothing about.
Traditionally, you'd think the other five would be used to reflect back on the characters we know.
Instead, Williams splits them up exactly along those lines, leaving five ciphers together, and creates a murder mystery with them.
It seemed as if he were going to spin out this mystery across the remaining three books - but he resolves it in this one.
Challenging stale narrative forms in the way he is doing here requires a pretty deft touch, and Williams handles it nicely.
However, as the story continued it came together in a really wonderful way.
The audio book of is pretty great.
In the end I realized that this 2nd book in the series was great too.
So even though I would say my overall rating of this first reading of River of Blue Fire would be something like a 4.75 stars I'm going to round up to 5 because I think if/when I reread it again I would give it 5 stars.
Definitely going to continue on with the series because I must know how the story turns out.
I struggled with this. I finished it, then started the next one. I'm halfway through that, and you know what? I just don't care anymore- I'm going to stop without reading the last book and a half. The thing I like about sci fi is internally consistent worlds that the reader has to work out. This is just page after page of "wouldn't it be cool if" "and then they woke up" rambling.Over it.
2nd Otherland book. Great read, better than the first. The meat of the story, and what a story. This man has one of the most vivid, reaching imaginations I have ever encountered. Let's hope he sees into the future again....
I'm beginning to convince myself not to continue reading this series due to recognizing the sunk cost fallacy, because at this point I think I need to use logic.
I could easily confine the salient plot points to 1/4 of the book, while considering the rest mostly filler.At this point, I would love to have read a tightly woven story following Renie, !Xabbu, Orlando, and Salome through a much more tightly constructed discovery of Otherland and how to deal with and learn the systems they encounter.
Add in Paul's plot, and I think you'd have all the sprawling epic you need.
And in Australia, a detective takes a closed case as a personal challenge and begins to unravel a mystery that may reveal the earliest conquest of a serial killer.A common theme throughout is the feeling of hopelessness, despair, and perhaps even boredom of both those trapped in Otherland and those in the real world.
On the other hand, this book reminds me of The Two Towers, by J.R.R. Tolkien, in that it's a continuation of a story in progress, sort of like a bridge.
I often read lots of online material and currently working my way through the Sandman graphic novel so I have plenty of distractions to keep from completing a book if it isn't grabbing me.
Hence why the three stars.(view spoiler)[Tad Williams is great writer even if he is a little long winded which is probably why I haven't simply bailed from the series.
I've pulled some great quotes I highlighted while going through the book and attached them to my status updates if your interested.
(hide spoiler)]Anyway, I'm going to keep plodding my way through this series.
This book fixes that problem, and is what you would expect of high caliber literature.The Bad -5 stars; 4.8 stars; 4.3 stars - the rating continues to drop (modestly; it’s still a very good book)…Mr. Williams has a very fertile imagination, and it is exciting to see what he can think up.
However, traveling the river solely as an exercise in imagination, frequenting simulations with NO correlation to plot advancement gets, well, let me quote the character Paul about a third of the way through the book:“His first thought, as he struggled toward the surface of yet another river, was; I could get tired of this very quickly.”The Ugly -There is an Indian Reservation in close proximity to the town where I live.
Otherland, a massive virtual reality network, is composed of an unknown number of worlds.
Renie suspects that Stephen's strange illness is somehow connected to Otherland.
Renie and her friend, a South African bushman named !Xabbu, sneak into the Otherland network in hopes of saving Stephen.
Most of the story occurs on a virtual reality network, yet each of the "worlds" (or VR servers) are as whimsical and imaginative as any fantasy novel.
I enjoy an overly complex plot as much as the next sci-fi/fantasy nerd, but even I found myself unsettled by all the jumping around.Still, with that caveat, I'm really looking forward to book three.
The things I enjoyed about the first book are still fun in book 2, particularly the continuing intrigue of the Dread story line, and the fun of the VR worlds in the Otherland network.
Williams presents us with I believe 11 new virtual worlds that the characters stumble through, seeking escape from the system, and answers to the mystery of the Otherland network and the Grail Brotherhood.
I found the sections dealing with Olga, Ramsey, Christabel, and Mr. Sellers to be particularly tedious, though I know that those plot lines will build to something as Williams continues to weave his threads together.
The story goes further and deeper into the characters - good and sinister.I enjoyed the journey, but I did take heed of the author saying that the series is really one BIG book - but publishers wouldn't let him publish the story as such a big book - and we wouldn't be able to carry it around he said also.We did find out more information and some questions were not answered - I guess that is what the third book is for.
I think I might take a break before the third book and read a non-fiction book.
I need to think some more about the characters and the book brought up some beliefs about Dreamtime - Aborigines and such, so I have a few books about that I want to research.
By the end of the first Otherland volume, the main characters found themselves lost in a huge, uncharted world - one could even say universe.
The second volume sees them exploring their surroundings in search of answers.
Most of the time, however, they are preoccupied with evading pursuers, whether they be giant insects or crafty assassins.This is essentially a chase novel, and Williams' prose keeps it moving along.
Half-way through the book I started to wonder if a greater plot was going to surface; by the end, I started to worry.
Still, I moved on; after "Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn", I had nothing but trust in Williams.
While interesting, this volume wasn't as compelling as the first book of the series. Threads of the plot are revealed, but any reader paying attention will see the twists in the distance.
I'm giving up on this series. The author is way too long winded.
I liked the Volume One: City of Golden Shadow, but this one was hard to finish, I found it too long and boring. I will not read the next volumes.
It's gearing up, and I am hooked! What an epic story!
Weer een geweldig deel in deze fijne serie. Heerlijk om te lezen. Ik zou eigenlijk zo door willen in deel 3, maar die moet even wachten. Maar niet lang.
The characters who were gathered by the disruptive Sellars in City of Golden Shadow get separated again into three smaller groups, and each of these groups winds up transported into a different sim-world, where they have some dangerous but at the same time tedious adventures.
We discover that the dangerous operative Dred (or Dread, or whatever his name is) has infiltrated one of the sims in Martine’s party, but it isn’t clear, even at the end, which one.The Otherland network appears to be breaking down, even though it is still in the process of going live.
