https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383324.Nightfall
Back when David Goodis' 1947 noir novel Nightfall was first published, Beat Generation critic Seymour Krim wrote as part of his book review for the New York Times: "There is much Freud in the air, much Faulkner in the sentence, much Hemingway in the talk.
David Goodis is good at writing novels about the guy on the run, like Dark Passage where Vince Parry is wrongly handed a life sentence for allegedly murdering his wife and becomes a perpetual fugitive from the law (a controversy developed between Goodis and ABC over their prime time TV show, The Fugitive).
The cause of this is usually due to some basic flaw in the protagonist's personality or circumstances that led him to make foolish moves that greased the tracks for his slide down into life's "other side" or else oblivion."Jim Vanning" in NIGHTFALL is not such a man.
I thought no character ever cracked wiser than Philip Marlowe when he's run out of luck.I was wrong.David Goodis is a writer of breath-taking prose and a creator of a hopelessness no genre character ever had to claw his way out of.'...the hard gray turning into black, the black of the revolver, the black remaining as more colors moved in.
Nightfall is the third David Goodis novel I've read, and I'm hooked on his compact, visceral, and vivid crime titles.
The basic premise in Nightfall concerns an innocent man--Jim Vanning--who by happenstance ends up with a satchel of 300 grand.
A likely story.
I like the seamless way that Goodis transitions between the present story and his back story.
The police detective Fraser is a dapper, smart copper who tracks Vanning, but also believes in his innocence.
A clever, entertaining read spread out over two evenings, Nightfall was a noir winner for me and well worth rereading at some point.
One of the finest novels I read in 2011 was Shoot the Piano Player and so for Christmas I asked for some more David Goodis.
However I can happily report that it was all worth it, David Goodis certainly seemed to have more than one very good novel in his career.Whilst this story bears many similarities with Shoot The Piano Player in terms of an innocent, desperate protagonist down on his luck with seemingly no hope for escape, this one is more about the clash between good and bad and less about the internal conflict.
before I post a review, I have to share this photo. I sliced my thumb on a fan blade, didn't realize it (I'm so accident prone I'm always doing something like this), and settled in to read. Before I turned the page, I looked down and saw blood. How appropriate for reading crime fiction! Review shortly.
Nightfall was very interesting, a gripping noir novel written in a creative and suspenseful style.
But more importantly, the story is told in varying hues of color like an Impressionist painting.
Sample: “Lavender light came down on a purplish river…and then red came into it, glaring red, the hood and fenders of the smashed station wagon, the hard gray of the boulder against which the wrecked car was resting, the hard gray turning into black, the black of the revolver…” This is noir at its most avant-garde.
The plot of the movie version is considerably different, which is a bit surprising as Goddis’ story line here is quite cinematic.
You have two narrative focalizers, Vanning, the noir “victim” and Fraser the detective who is shadowing him.
And then you have the other criminals who are pursuing Vanning.
To say much more about the plot or the characters gets into spoiler territory as most of the enjoyment of the read is they way story unfolds as you go, that, along with Goddis’ propulsive prose style makes this a good page turner.
What had happened was that, by sheerest coincidence, Bryan at Everything Noir had been writing about the 1957 movie based on the book.
Except, as Bryan explains, in a way the book was based on the movie, even though published ten years before the latter's release.
For more of the details, see Bryan's piece.Many, many years ago I read the David Goodis volume of the Black Box series of noir omnibuses that Maxim Jakubowski edited.
I'm not sure why it's taken me until now to return to Goodis, but I do know I'm planning to read more by him soon.
Vanning – a victim of circumstance is placed in the perfect and unforgiving wrong man scenario.
In his mind, he’s innocent of the crimes he’s accused - his actions vindicated by circumstance yet there’s a subtle cloudiness to the believability of his mantra.
Like many other Goodis novels, ‘Nightfall’ questions the lead characters sincerity and state of mind.
It takes a good writer to evoke reader emotion, and Goodis is a great writer - I really disliked Fraser while I was genuinely concerned for the health and wellbeing of Vanning.
My heart began to beat a little faster as soon as I started reading this book.'Nightfall' is the first work I've read by Goodis in over a decade, but I could remember the sensation, that unease that comes with knowing something bad is about to happen.It was there in this book, where something bad has already happened to contract artist Vanning long before we meet him, but are certain to get worse.
In a narrative where every character's motivations are constantly in question these same chances are frequently snuffed out only to be reignited (however modestly) a few chapters later.It's a slim book, with the action moving at a brisk pace.
I'll gladly accept a couple of typographical errors for the excellent cover, informative introduction, and an extra story set in Colombo added at the end of the novel.Nightfall doesn't hold the overall bleakness and downright down-and-out-ed-ness that Goodis is known for, and the plot has a couple of areas that aren't too credible, but this story has some nice things going for it even beyond the vibrant lingo, top-notch dialogue, and heavy hitting narrative.The first thing is that all the characters seem to be hunting each other on different levels.
What is really nice is when the dialogue is loaded with various characters' psychological game play, particularly in a couple of places where I began to wonder what was going through the characters' minds----what level are they playing on?
An exceptional psychological thriller told from the perspectives of an innocent man accused of robbery and murder, and the sympathetic detective obsessed with finding out the truth. More than a typical crime thriller, the novel is essentially a character study of an emotionally damaged man on the run, pursued by both criminals and police, looking for redemption but without a clear path, alone and without hope. Goodis pulls off the dual narratives with great aplomb. His lean prose and colorful dialogue propel the tight plot to a very satisfying conclusion.
A fast-paced noir detective story, this one boils along nicely with a confused and haunted narrator who's trying to escape a murder that he is unable to prove was self-defense. Maybe not the most classic of noir stories, as both the narrator and the love interest are less jaded and more innocent than one would expect of the genre, but it also includes a wonderful character in the form of the detective trailing the narrator. He's trained in psychology and is thus a sort of early version of a profiler--the relationship between him and the narrator is tense and interesting.
So lucky to find this in the bargain bin at Troutmark, you hardly ever see a Goodis anywhere and he's one of the best. This was fairly furmulaic, guy on the run for a crime he didn't commit, but had a nice touch of seeing the detective's perspective in alternate chapters, and a lovely compassionate fella he is too. Also, Goodis' writing is reliably a notch better than most and this got pretty tense by the end, my fingernails got right chewed.
It's just a blip of time for Vanning, for us, yet it encompasses eight months.Seen from today's perspective, it's an awkward use of psychology and profiling as Goodis pushes new frontiers in this thriller, slipping back and forth between his protagonist's current life and events in the past, teasing us with just enough to begin to answer questions, to raise new ones.
Not what you'd expect between a killer and a cop.I don't understand why killing the man is such a trauma for Vanning.
Like Goodis’ other books, the novel has oneiric (dream-like) qualities.
In more than one scene Vanning goes so deeply into the past that he has conversations and experiences things that never happen.
There’s also a scene where Fraser is observing Vanning with binoculars and has a conversation with Vanning that, well, never actually happens.
It’s an odd stylistic device for a pulp crime novel, but one that other fifties pulp writers, Jim Thompson in particular, used occasionally.
And Goodis does it during key scenes, such as the one where Vanning is being tortured by Sam and Pete, or later when he rescues Fraser from Sam and Pete.
3.5 🌟
Interesting about Nightfall is Goodis’ way of following Vanning through the course of the plot, shifting from past memories of the events in Colorado, and then coming back to the present time.
During the course of the narrative, we, along with the many other characters, try to absorb the identity of Vanning and come to some conclusions about who he really is.
Vanning’s own sense of disillusion and skepticism even keep him in the dark, as he is trying to uncover his true self as well.
Fraser thinks he has Vanning figured out, but he needs answers as well.
Nightfall was Goodis’ third novel, after Dark Passage and before Of Missing Persons, and it comes across as an amalgamation of the two.
Everywhere he looks, hearing men gloat about their wives, amplifies his own tormented bitterness; he is a great example of what led one critic to perceptively observe that Goodis wrote “emotional autobiography disguised as lurid melodrama.” It’s that sense of infusing his own experiences and emotions into his work that gives Goodis’ novels such a feeling of authenticity, despite their often contrived plots.
Still, it’s interesting to see how the road to those most despairing novels was reached.
I think there were a lot of guys pigeon holed as pulp writers who didn't get the respect they deserved.
But, if you liked a world filled with dangling cigarettes glowing in the dark, too red lipstick, long legs, the tough guy rhythm of smart talk, the all knowing smirk?
Then these guys are worth spending a few hours with.This story like a lot of them starts with a predicament and then evolves fast as a long list of complications start piling up.
There's a lot worst to do then spending them here.
What happens in this book could be described as missing time combined, in the end, with the kind of psychological explanation they loved in the 1940s and 50s.The third book I read by Goodis was Dark Passage, and I became convinced that the main character in that was dead, that he had died in the opening scenes.
But I guess, in truth, I was thinking more of certain movies where you realize the protagonist is dead (Jacob's Ladder, Mulholland Drive, even Lisa and the Devil).
Then I read the next two novels in the Goodis Library of the Americas book, The Burglar and this, Nightfall.
David Goodis just might be my favorite crime novelist. This novel, from the criminal's point of view, is more than just a gripping plot. Goodis does great work at making this novel art. From digging into the psyche of the main character and the detective to the craftily jumbled narration near the end of the novel when Vanning moves from present to memory without transition, Goodis makes this novel worth reading to many more people than who already know it exists.
NIGHTFALL. (1947). David Goodis. ***. Another pot-boiler from Goodis, this time one about an innocent man who gets mixed up with a group of men who had just robbed a bank in Seattle of $300,000. It goes like this: While driving along a back road in Denver, James Vanning, a commercial artist on his way to Chicago, hears an auto accident. As he drives forward, he sees a car has overturned, and three men in various states of damage. He stops to offer help and one of the men comes forward with gun i
As he drives forward, he sees a car has overturned, and three men in various states of damage.
He stops to offer help and one of the men comes forward with gun in hand.
As they all drive off to get to a doctor for one of the injured men, Vanning makes an escape – taking one of their guns and a satchel with him.
At some point in time, he drops the satchel somewhere, but doesn’t remember where.
Vanning really can’t remember where it was he dropped it, and takes a beating for his bad memory.
second reading: bought a goodis anthology, only not read is 'dark passage', decided to read the others again. good idea. plot already known so i concentrate on style: again concise, concrete, compelling. having now read so many noir (146) i am no longer surprised by the artless-art of his 'expressionist' pulp writing. good reread...first review: this has an interesting narrative, split between cop and presumed criminal. this has the whole wrong-man, trust, fear, helplessness, good or bad woman, home vs flight, intuition vs evidence. very short novel, not a word in excess...
I read this for my Popular Film and Literature class at OU. The book was interesting, and not at all what I expected out of a class book. It was easy to understand, a lot of dialogue, and a bit of humor. Watch for the "match scenes" and the author's obsession for color (especially blue)
And for a while I found myself enjoying Nightfall, with it’s classic Hitchcockian plot about an innocent man who becomes wrapped up with a criminal conspiracy and ends up being pursued by both criminals and cops, but the more I read, the more it’s weaknesses became apparent.For one thing, I read old hard boiled detective stories for the sharp, witty, colorful dialogue.
Nightfall’s dialogue is colorless and boring.
I also read these kinds of stories because they are usually packed with interesting characters, but Nightfall’s characters are as colorless as its dialogue.
And as the story progresses even its promising plot begins to fall apart.
If David Goodis is one of my favourite American pulp writers it is largely due to his 1950s thriller Down There.
This is in the past of the novel and we are told the back plot in ‘flashback’.
That old pulp standby, amnesia, helps with the plot mechanics.
In the now of the novel Venning is hiding from the gangsters, who think he has their loot, and the cops, who think he is a murderer.
And then the gangsters track him down and grab him.
As always with Goodis, romantic love is the redeeming factor.


