https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30362.Charade
I picked up my first Sandra Brown book early in October. It was Envy and I absolutely loved it. Charade is my 8th book and I guess it is safe to say she is now one of my favorite authors. She is so creative with her characters which lends to a captivating story.In Charade we meet Cat Delaney. She has been given a second chance at life and wanting something more tangible, something that allows her to give back; she leaves her acting career behind and makes a move to San Antonio to lead a project
I picked up my first Sandra Brown book early in October.
She is so creative with her characters which lends to a captivating story.In Charade we meet Cat Delaney.
When Cat and Alex first meet, both were equally attracted to the other.
There was an apparent connection among the characters but there was so much mystery in the air I was always second guessing myself.
Sandra Brown always works in secondary characters that cause confusion, intrigue as well as adding depth to the plot.
❤ I’m looking forward to reading many more books by Sandra Brown.
I must say since I read my first Sandra Brown book not so long ago, I have been hooked. She is a fantastic author. I am rarely disappointed.  A medical miracle gave TV personality Cat Delaney more than a new heart. It gave her a second chance at life. After leaving Hollywood to host a San Antonio TV show spotlighting children with special needs, Cat fights to gain respect as a newscaster. She meets Alex Pierce, an ex-cop turned crime writer, who regards her as a woman, not as a heart patient. As
I must say since I read my first Sandra Brown book not so long ago, I have been hooked.
After leaving Hollywood to host a San Antonio TV show spotlighting children with special needs, Cat fights to gain respect as a newscaster.
She meets Alex Pierce, an ex-cop turned crime writer, who regards her as a woman, not as a heart patient.
I had sort of an inkling about Alex's past, but only an inkling.I so want to visit all the places Sandra Brown describes.
The chemistry had been instantaneous and explosive, something powerful and like nothing she'd experienced before
Good but not my favorite of Sandra Brown.
The beginning was slow and took me a while to get into the story because it was the setup for the main story to come, and that was fine.
I was glued to the "pages" but I found myself upping the speed of the narration to get to reveals.
It seems this Sandra Brown was slow in releasing them.
I was totally on board, loving it, until that reveal and the details that came with it.
She is an excellent plotter for the most part and I loved every other story so far.
"The soul would search endlessly and in vain for its home, while the still beating heart continued to mock the sanctity of death." Well, Ms. Brown never fails to entertain me and keep me on my toes. This was a really great read with a thrilling mystery, danger and romance. I was still figuring it out till practically the very end. Cat Delaney famed soap opera star gets a new lease on life thanks to a heart transplant. With her new heart, she also has a change of heart about her life and up and l
Cat Delaney famed soap opera star gets a new lease on life thanks to a heart transplant.
There she meets Alex Pierce, an ex-cop, now up and coming fictional crime writer.
Despite figuring out Alex around midway (view spoiler)[and it certainly had me struggling to keep him at a distance (hide spoiler)] it didn't make unravelling of the clues any easier.
If you want a superbly written tale with a intricately detailed mystery with colourful and layered characters that keeps you guessing, you need to read this book.
Es el primer libro que leo de esta autora y con seguridad volveré a leer otro.
Aunque el argumento no es original del todo, Sandra Brown a logrado enfocarlo desde un punto de vista muy interesante: ¿qué pasaría si alguien matara a aquellas personas que tal día recibieron un corazón nuevo?
La manera en que la autora te sumerge en la historia es fascinante: te muestra los últimos minutos de vida que tuvieron los donantes de dichos corazones, y después juega con el lector para ver si es capaz de encontrar al asesino.
3.75 stars.I like it but couldn’t help to think the story feels a bit dated!Well, it was published in 1995 😬.But the mystery is well kept and the messy romance was good eventhought I don’t like the hero much! (view spoiler)[This is one of the case where don’t fall in love with someone who have a dead ex! (hide spoiler)]However I was glad that’s ended well.Do you want a better review?Here, check it out Mo’s review 😘
Loved it, review to come.
Leitura agradável mas sinceramente esperava mais suspense, mais mistério, mais ansiedade.
2.5-starsI really love the premise of this book, and the pace is excellent. But I feel Cat character sometimes seems forced, irritated and exaggerated. Her backstory and a lot of difficulties she has gone through aren’t layered in a way that help me connect to the character. The romance between Alex and Cat goes from sizzle to fizzle. The plotline is crowded with many secondary characters that none of them stand out. Suspense, mystery, and romance all fall flat in Charade, imo.
What can I say? I love Sandra Brown!! Great book!!
I guessed the identity of the killer almost from the word 'go' but could not identify the person until towards the end (if you read this book you'll know why guessing 'who' and identifying 'who' are not one and the same thing) a little before Sandra actually revealed the person.
Although Sandra does not spend time on flashbacks from the hero's life with his first love, she has him telling the heroine of his profound love for the woman from his past and declaring his love for the heroine without setting up comparisons.
Heart transplants. Do you want to know who the donor is? There is a series of murders of heart transplant recipients. A good mystery.
I actually really liked this book. Although older, it still was a good one. I admit I was stumped at who the murderer was and why. As for the big boss of the tv station, he deserves a hard kick in the ass. His Mrs needs a kick too for turning the other way.
Es verdad que me hubiera gustado que se tratase con más profundidad, pero bueno.El romance posiblemente sea lo peor, no puedo decir mucho para no hacer spoilers, pero el protagonista masculino no me ha caído bien, me parece un chulo y no creo que se pueda llamar amor a lo que hay entre ellos, sino que tiene un toque enfermizo...
Hay momentos macabros y duros, personajes crueles y escenas sangrientas, pero todo ello hace que la ambientación sea buena.Por mi parte, tenía varios sospechosos en mente pero es la autora sabe jugar muy bien y cuando parece que es uno, se pasa a otro, y cuando crees que ya lo tienes, te hace dudar.
Agarrando esta oportunidade, Cat decide apresentar um programa de televisão para crianças especiais que se intitula "As crianças de Cat".Mas Cat começa a receber recortes de jornais com "acidentes" fatais de pessoas que, tal como ela, receberam um transplante de coração e mais ainda...
Mas terá Cat a capacidade para ver para lá das aparências e descobrir quem tanto lhe quer mal??"Obsessão" foi um livro que me deixou agarrada da primeira à última página e que me deu um imenso prazer ler!!
The time had finally come when she was going to be given a new heart.
Originally published in 1995, it was re-released for a second time in 2010.
This latest issue is the copy I read, though I am not sure if Ms. Brown made any changes to the original.
I had the villain pegged soon after the character's introduction but I still kept reading if only to figure out how everyone connected with Cat.Oh, and the steamy scenes between Cat and Alex.
One in particular, with Alex coming to Cat unexpectedly after an argument.
Mais um livro da Sandra Brown que nos deixa o tempo todo em suspense, sempre a querer saber o que vai acontecer a seguir. Confesso que de todos os intervenientes na trama, não tinha imaginado nada que seria este o culpado, algo que eu gosto bastante no livro. O que me irritou um pouco é que a protagonista é boazinha demais, bolas ninguém é assim, que irritante. Mas gostei do livro, o balanço final é muito positivo
The one thing about some of the sandra brown books I have read is that you don't get the everything tied in a bow at 85%, not you get every last drop of the story up until the very last page. You are still questioning everything and everyone up until 98% and wondering who in your list of suspects is the real killer. Can't say again how much I love this woman's writing, but the proof is in the pudding.....
no es de los mejores libros que he leido de esta autora, pero ha estado muy entretenido y me ha sorprendido bastante7.5/10
Cat Delaney, uma actriz famosa decide trocar os holofotes de Hollywood para se mudar para o Texas, abraçando uma nova carreira como apresentadora do programa "As Crianças de Cat", cujo propósito é dar a conhecer casos problemáticos de crianças para adopção, proporcionando-lhes famílias através da divulgação.Para trás, Cat deixa Dean o seu ex-cardiologista e namorado, cuja relação branda e desapaixonada em nada contribui para a felicidade da actriz.Contratada por Bill Webster, uma magnata da televisão texana, Cat dedica-se de corpo e alma à sua causa, pois ela mesma fora uma criança retida no sistema, após o suicídio dos seus pais quando tinha apenas oito anos de idade.É no Texas que Cat conhece Alex Pierce, um ex-polícia, agora escritor de policiais tórridos com grande sucesso, mas será o seu encontro pura coincidência?
También me ha gustado el sarcasmo y el cinismo impreso en cada página, las situaciones cómicas que se establecen entre ellos y su magnífica resolución, donde nadie es tan bueno ni tan malo como parece.Creo que no sería capaz de describir en un solo párrafo todo lo que este libro contiene y hace sentir; sería imposible.
El final es épico y desde el comienzo se nota que posee mucho arranque.ASPECTOS NEGATIVOS: el principal problema que le he encontrado a este libro han sido los diálogos.
Tampoco me ha gustado que se venda como una novela amorosa cuando no tiene mucho que ver.
Sí, es cierto que los personajes principales establecen una relación, pero eso es algo secundario dentro del eje principal.Lo recomiendo cien por cien.
Soap opera star Cat Delaney receives a new heart, getting a new life while on the same day several others lost theirs.
All goes well until she learns that other heart recipients who received their transplants on the same day are mysteriously dying from accidents.
I enjoyed the story and the characters, even though I figured out the killer fairly early, red herrings and all.
The relationship between Alex and Cat was high octane, including their almost constant tension, made palatable because of her penchant for honesty and his for secrets.
It's a suspenseful story that kept my interest to the end.
She got me hooked by the way she was weaving characters and words.The author had me falling into the world of Charade since the first page - I emerged only at the last line of the book.
While I love romantic sides of this book, I loved the intrigue and mystery of connecting the murders to the heart operations and the main character Cat Delaney even more.
Though I figured the real murderer from the moment they were introduced into the story I still had to wait for them to prove me right.You get to play a little detective yourself while reading Charade by figuring everything out even before the book ends.
I won Charade through the Goodreads First Reads Giveaway on 12/15/2010 and received it on 12/27/2010!I love all of the Sandra Brown books that I have been able to get my hands on, so if you are a Brown fan, you will love this book along with all of the others.
The story never had any slow or draggy parts and of course it was very well written.My only issue with Charade is that for once with a Sandra Brown book, I had picked out who the villan was by about a quarter of the way through.

This is the first book by Sandra Brown I've read. It's been on my shelves of books to read for years, but I've delayed reading one of hers because I know myself well enough to know that if I liked it I'd need to read every one! It was very good so I guess I will spend the next couple of years catching up with her mountain of books!!
I found this book in a box of stuff from middle/high school and thought I'd give it a reread. Wow... the cutting edge of organ transplants, people named Judy and some wild sex scenes. Probably awesome if you're in 8th grade- not so great as an adult.
Another great read by Sandra Brown. Very intriguing storyline about Cat Delaney. Cat was an orphan and due to illness gets a heart transplant. Transplant recipients that received a heart transplant on the same day as Cat start dying on the anniversary date of Cat's transplant. Can Cat or anyone figure out who is doing the killings before Cat ends up being the next victim? You'll think you know who the killer is several times before it is revealved in the last few pages of the book. A page turner and great suspense novel.
Compelling enough to finish, but not my favorite Sandra Brown. Too many coincidences and even with a plethora of suspects, I guessed who it was by the middle of the book. Also, Cat did way too many dumb things, though she got out of them all right. I suppose she had nine lives, like her namesake, har har. Sorry. Enjoyed the ruminations on the life of a novelist!
3.5 stars. Just because it took a while for me to get hooked. It only got real interesting almost halfway through. However, Sandra Brown delivers, as always. Maybe also take into consideration it was first published in 1995.
