https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17661416-made-you-up
“Sometimes I think people take reality for granted.” I stand by my earlier claim - YA contemporary is where it's at this year. I thought this book was excellent. Compelling, addictive, really weird and excellent. It was such an unusual novel; I can personally say I've never read anything quite like it and it's a great book for discussion. Such an unreliable narrator, constantly blurring the lines between reality and hallucination.Alex suffers from paranoia and schizophrenia. Her world is full o
She cannot trust her own senses, so she takes pictures of the world around her, knowing that any hallucinations will eventually fade and the reality will be left behind in the image.
And I just loved the way the story unfolded.See, years ago, Alex was first diagnosed when she recounted an incident that no one else seemed to think happened that way.
I think I liked Alex and Miles because they're both kind of unlikable.
The story predictably takes the romantic route, but it happens very gradually and feels like a natural progression.
I don’t want to talk about plot and characters and the lack of diversity in this novel, I want to talk about schizophrenia.Top twelve "You know nothing, Jon Snow, about schizophrenia" clues Francesca Zappia style:1-You use interchangeably delusions and hallucinations.
(I can assure you that the patient missing her intakes would feel it in her body, but hey the mom in this book looks like she knows so much better.) They could have a toxic reaction to the pills because unlike most drugs antipsychotics must be entirely metabolized before being eliminated from the body.
6 Things That You Will Love About Made You Up + A Note to Francesca Zappia1.)  The absolutely charming heroine, Alex . We have another unreliable narrator here, which I absolutely loved. But being unreliable isn't a reason not to connect with her. In fact, it was so incredibly easy for me to love her. Alex was sassy and sarcastic, but also troubled and with a lot of depth. To say that she had a strong personality would be an understatement.2.)  All of the feelings . This book was so emotionally
I also loved how Alex seemed to already come to terms with her disease, and also how she still pushed through and made mature decisions about it in the end.4.) 
Alex's parents weren't a prominent part of the story, but when they were there, you could easily see how much they loved their daughter and how much they didn't want to hurt her.6.) 
I thought it was an excellent way to end the book.Also, a quick note to Francesca Zappia: If you end up writing a mini epilogue to Made You Up, I will love you forever.
This book ended fantastically, but I want more!
Like I felt there was more to Alex than her mental illness, and I appreciated that 10000%.
Alex is going to this new school (she got kicked out of her last) and so she meets a motley crew, but notably: Tucker and Miles.
Tucker is a really cool, sweet dude and I liked his easy-going friendship with Alex (YAY FOR PLATONIC FRIENDSHIPS) But Miles?!?
It's also a bit of a "mystery" because there's something WEIRD going on at Alex's new school and she, Tucker, and Miles sort of get to the bottom of it.
In this story, the reader gets to understand how someone like Alex socially cope and blend in despite her state of mind.I admire how the story narrated by Alex herself read almost like a fantasy story because of her hilariously creative imagination conjuring out of this world mental pictures like black-clad and armed men on the school’s rooftops or a python slithering stealthily along the school’s ceilings (you’ll never know which is real or not so prepare to be surprised!) The story is made even more ingenious because of this other character, Miles, a boy just as special and as unique, possibly the smartest teenager under the sun but who can’t seem to process emotions properly.
I admit some of the events were a bit far-fetched and some characters and stereotypes a bit overdone but somehow, this charming novel found a special spot in my heart.
I didn’t think I was going to review this, so I didn’t write that many down, but I’ll try to dredge some up from my tragic, limited and upsetting memories of this book.Alex always says her town is small, but it’s made up of like a bajillion “subdivisions” and each “subdivision” is made up of several “neighborhoods.” Also, Alex gives a lot of inconsistent information about finances: her family is “dirt poor,” but they could easily drop $70 for a new school uniform, it’s just that her mom wants to guilt trip her instead.
"My throat tightened and my heart swelled painfully in my chest. Please don't let this be a delusion. Please let this be real." As long as I can remember, I've always been fascinated by schizophrenia, and mental illness, for that matter. Although I've been unable to explain why for years, more that I think about it, more it seems to me that what attracts me so much is the fact that people apprehend and see the world differently, through the lens of their own perception. Perception that they can
Although I've been unable to explain why for years, more that I think about it, more it seems to me that what attracts me so much is the fact that people apprehend and see the world differently, through the lens of their own perception.
Because they're two flawed and unlikeable teenagers, who both have to deal with the wanderings of their minds, their extreme nerdness, and getting to know them was INCREDIBLE.The story is told in the refreshing and unique voice of Alex, who's suffered from schizophrenia and paranoia since her early childhood.
What's amazing is the fact that sometimes you forget that Alex suffers from schizophrenia and paranoia and suddenly she thinks stuff like "I'm not going to eat this you know.
I loved this one. An unreliable main character that is both firece and strong in every way. Definitely make sure this one is on your list! Review to come!
oh hi there, it is I, hater of the popular books loved by millions of people. ◇the beginning was actually really good◇then Miles came◇i hate Miles◇a lot◇i also hate contemporaries◇but this one was "really good"◇but it wasn't◇it seemed like every other YA Contemporary, except the MC in this book had schizophrenia (how do you even pronounce that) ◇i actually liked alex and i enjoyed reading about her character and learned about her condition, but◇THIS IS A CONTEMPORARY◇so i FUCKING HATED IT◇and the romance between miles and alex?◇yup, you guessed it.◇I HATED ITso overall, i hated this garbage goodbye
Like those typical reads where you think you already know everything that's going to happen.
I've never read a book with the main character suffering from schizophrenia.
I loved how the author didn't feel the need to revolve the plot entirely on the subject of schizophrenia.
The thing I loved about the author is that she approached the subject of schizophrenia in a sort of humorous way.
Or basically, the author forgets the fact that maybe people with mental illness  CAN  have a personality.
For real, the author seriously added a lot of seasoning to Alex's personality like :
4 Stars!!   “Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one” – Albert Einstein  For some reason I’m always reluctant to start a YA novel and I’m always reluctant to start a book with this subject matter – mental illness. And no, not because I don’t enjoy them. In fact, I’ve always been fascinated by books about mental health. To be honest “Made You Up” was very different from what I expected. It’s a compelling, moving, refreshing story about a girl who lives in her own world, a wor
No, not because I suffer from schizophrenia, but because like Alex I want to be accepted.
Miles, like Alex is a unique character as well.
While at first he’s a prick, later he’s portrayed as a sweet, attentive and thoughtful boy who truly cares for Alex, who wants to help her in any way he can, who understands and supports her like no other.
However, I knew they love Alex and want what’s best for her.
I liked how all of them interacted with each other, but what I loved the most is Alex and Miles's interactions.
4 stars!!!  Made You Up is a unique and riveting tale of a teenage girl named Alex. Alex is a teenager who is living with mental illness. She has schizophrenia and has trouble knowing what is real and what isn’t sometimes. I cannot imagine being in Alex’s shoes. The story was fascinating but equally terrifying knowing that people are dealing with this very serious disorder. I loved Alex’s character. I thought she was fierce and honestly was trying to live her very best life, as difficult as it c
Alex is a teenager who is living with mental illness.
I loved Alex’s character.
I loved the little enemies to friends relationship they had.
I loved that Miles accepted her for who she was.
His life was difficult in a different way, and even though at first I wasn’t sure about him, I adored him by the end of the book.
As a nurse, I’ve dealt with a lot of people with mental health issues, but none as serious as this at such a young age.
I think the author handled the topic very well, and the book was interesting, informative, and entertaining.
😆😘(I’m going to celebrate by buying a book or six.)‘Made You Up’ tells the story of a girl who suffers from schizophrenia.
It wasn’t the sole focus of the plot; it was more than that (i.e. family, friendship and acceptance) and Alex’s character was pretty awesome.
I adored the love interest, Miles.
He has his own shit to deal with and I loved how both Alex and Miles came round full circle at the end.
The story didn’t blow me away.
I found the plot slightly boring and what kept me reading was the mystery surrounding the characters.
It just wasn’t the most hard-hitting of stories.
Not one for contemporaries but this one definitely made the exception. So beautifully written.
"Are you real?"     Right after reading this book, my feelings was all over the place. And if you don't know, when a book does that to you it only means one thing: the book is all kinds of amazing. Made You Up is such a powerful and poignant novel. It was engrossing to the point that the book is absolutely gripped inside your heart and the desire to let go... is nonexistent. I love how unreliable our main character is. I'm the kind of reader who always puts herself in the main character's shoes
It was engrossing to the point that the book is absolutely gripped inside your heart and the desire to let go...
I'm the kind of reader who always puts herself in the main character's shoes so that I can truly experience the whole novel.
At least to me.Don't you just love books that challenges you?
Don't you just love books that makes you understand?
Miles is the 70% of reasons why I adore Francesca.
And that's enough reason.Made You Up is absolutely, without a doubt, one of the best book I've read this year.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to HarperCollins and Edelweiss.) “My first-ever friend was a hallucination: a sparkling entry on my new resume as a crazy person.” This was a quirky story about a girl suffering from schizophrenia, and her doubts over what was real, and what was a hallucination.Alex was a sweet girl, and I felt quite sorry for her and what she was going through; being diagnosed with schizophrenia at such a young age, being
The storyline in this was about Alex starting at a new school, meeting Miles, and getting up to some mischief, and we also got a few twists thrown in when we would discover that something was in fact a hallucination rather than really happening to poor Alex!We did get a bit of romance, but it didn’t really appeal to me all that much.
The ending to this was pretty good, but my favourite part of the story was definitely the twists we got thrown at the end!7 out of 10
“What you loved as a child, you will love forever.”  Wow, I am shocked, i really didn't expect that it would be this good.Made You Up is a book, that will make you question everything you know. It griped me from the very first page. I was real wary to read it, because Mental Illness book doesn't dwell well with me, because Literally in every book the illness is dragged, and i know it because its my it my field of expertise, we literally work hard to know and treat these patients and for me it'
Made You Up is book, full of Love, friendship, hardships, highschool bullies, bitches, detentions, first love, paranoia, mental illness, suspense that will kill you till the very last page, family hardships and LIFE.Alex well truth to be told when it comes to female MC's i really am not a big fan of female characters and only some of them made a place in my heart and Alex was one of them, a twisted teenager with Schizophrenia, who can't tell what's the difference between real and hallucinations.
But I ask the questions this time.""Fine.""If I guess it before five, I'll be really disappointed."The corners of his lips twisted up in a smile and he said, "Don't insult me.""Are you alive?""Yes.""Do you live here?""Yes.""Do I know you?""Yes.""Did I make you up?" ______________________________Alex wages a war against her schizophrenia, determined to stay sane long enough to get into college.
Before she knows it, Alex is making friends, going to parties, falling in love, and experiencing all the usual rites of passage for teenagers.
But Alex is used to being crazy.
She’s not prepared for normal.
Post my old thinkpiece on mental illness tropes in YA, and then proceed to go into how this book smacks it all down.
♔  MENTAL ILLNESS IS EXACTLY THIS.You know what trope I hate?
I love that this book treats Alex like a fucking human being.
I love that she's not your typical written-by-gross-tropes mentally ill protagonist.
But he's also not the fake-quirky love interest you see in mental illness books sometimes.
Alex's mom is a trash person, and the book knows this.
I love that the book knows this.
Mas uma coisa q eu me perguntei durante toda a leitura "ahmm, então é assim q funciona esquizofrenia?" E bom, quando eu terminei a leitura e fui descobrir mais a respeito, descobri que não.
Eu sou do tipo de pessoa que quando é ignorante sobre um assunto, depois de ler um livro q aborda tal assunto, costumo pesquisar um pouco pra saber mais a respeito.
Muitas pessoas vão pensar q esquizofrenia é essa doença romantizada do livro, assim como muitas acharam q A Culpa é das Estrelas era uma boa representação de adolescentes com câncer (eu tbm achei quando li o livro, me emocionei bastante.
Although as a narrator, she is unreliable and somewhat unlikable, I still personally liked her as a character and found her to be very well-rounded overall.I should mention here, I did have a little bit of an issue with the fact the Alex had a tendency to label every body she disliked, "psychotic".
While minor, this seemed a little insensitive to me considering this is a mental health book, but I recognise this could be put down to the fact that Alex is an unreliable narrator in the first place.The secondary characters are all well-written and I liked so many of them!
Well, then.If this book was real, I highly enjoyed it.But I trust nothing anymore, so... we'll see.
It made schizophrenia look like a pretentious illness with a stick up its ass.
Let's give credit where credit is due— Francesca Zappia sure knows how to be crafty with mental illness because if I could create my own symptoms and get a kick out of making a book "fun," I probably would.
It was like somebody trolled on my nonexistent feels.In closing, my Magic 8 Ball is smarter than this book.
Holy shit my feels right now.
"You're Jetta."He shook his head.I frowned. "Theo?""No.""Well if you're not either of them, you'd have to be me."He blinked. "It's me?" I said."I couldn't think of anyone else," he said. So....to keep pace with my current obsession of flawed and/or tortured characters and unreliable narrators, I just had to read this. I can't even begin to imagine living in a world where I don't know what's real and what isn't. It's just unfathomable, to me. To look on my desk and see a spider, only to immediat
I can't even begin to imagine living in a world where I don't know what's real and what isn't.
I couldn't get enough of mean old [tortured] Miles and poor Alex.
So I arched my own eyebrow and said, "I don't know what you're talking about."The corners of his lips twisted up right before I walked away.But I don't even think it's that.
And lastly-I loved how he always stood up for Alex, even if it didn't look like he was.
I will be suggesting it to many, and I can't wait to come back someday and re-read this with an open mind and knowing what is real...and what isn't.
“If nothing’s real, then what does it matter?” he said. “You live here. Doesn’t that make it real enough?”   I don't think I'll ever be ready to fully review this book.The characters are so unique,the story is just captivating and there are so many twist that you won't see coming!Also,hate-to-love relationships give me life.But seriously,read this book as soon as possible,I guarantee that you'll love it if you love smart but a bit crazy and weird characters and a "oh my god my feelings" kind o
“If nothing’s real, then what does it matter?” he said.
“You live here.
Doesn’t that make it real enough?” 
Also, I'm sorry you were inconvenienced by my gluing your locker shut at the beginning of this year.
However, I am not sorry that I did it, because it was a lot of fun.
Love, Alex.” “No, you're not a bad person," he said.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Hey look, it’s another book I read two months ago and never reviewed.
Lucky again that this is a book where the less said is better because SPOILERS so if this is on your TBR be careful wading too deep into the reviewing pond (and especially the Questions section on GR) or else you might find you need to cut a b*&^#.Made You Up is the story of Alex’s senior year.
I didn’t even need to look at a synopsis before deciding I would be reading this one.
4,2 starsSpeechless I thought about it and I don't feel like to review this book anymore. I liked it too much and waited too long. Sorry.(how cute and accurate this picture is though?)
It's one of those books you get mad because people should read this,  it should be more famous and you just don't want the story to end.
And you live."What if I told you Alex isn't the only complex and unique character in this book?
"Believing something existed and then finding out it didn't was like reaching the top of the stairs and thinking there was one more step."I don't have enough words for this book and this review.
Like convincing other people that this book is a must-read for everyone, even if you feel like you're not going to like it.
When the book first came out, I decided not to read it. I simply wasn’t interested in the story - the synopsis didn’t grab my attention tbh. But then I read Eliza and Her Monsters and decided I needed to read this book, because if it had been written by Francesca Zappia, then it meant it could only be amazing. And it was. I LOVED this book. #Alex for Alexander the Great Alexandra is schizophrenic. That’s a truth, and a reality she has to live with every day. She has to check her food for possibl
that’s her reality.One day she has to change High School because of something that happened - looks like spray-painting the word Communist on the gym floor isn’t well accepted - and she had to adapt to this ‘new life.’ There, she meets her first friends - something she never had, if you don’t count Lobster Tank guy whom she has no idea if he was real or not - and someone who actually looks a lot like blue-eyed Lobster Tank guy.Alex is someone who deserves so much more love and respect for what she goes through every day.
