https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39927096-less
To avoid the whispers and rumors that would abound, he takes the only course of action he can imagine: accepting every literary invitation he's been putting off, a journey that will take him around the globe and well away from the wedding of the man he loved.
It had me from the first page, and I'm not even precisely sure why.
There's a line in the book — I had to fetch it to quote it exactly — that I think is what the book says on every page:"Just for the record: happiness is not bullshit."That belief in happiness and love is what makes this novel a comfort read.
I wanted to dislike this book for petty reasons grounded in irrationality but it's quite a brilliant novel, with exceptional writing and a depth of character rarely seen in fiction.
I'm also surprised I loved this book because I hate books about writers.Less is a frustrating man who gets in his own way all too often.
There is a lot that is funny and relatable about the writing life.
In the end though, this is one of the most satisfying love stories I've ever read.
I found myself believing that love always finds a way.
heard him speak when this book was first released, yet I only bought the like-new hardcopy for a $1 from my thrift store ( interesting coincidence) a short time before it won The Pulitzer Prize.
That is, at least, how he feels at times like these.
Or do you do the opposite – – do you forswear all that, and let your hair go gray and wear elegant sweaters that cover your belly, and smile on past pleasures that will never come again?
In a couple, do you each take a lover, like matching nightstands by the bed, so that sex will not vanished entirely?
There is no story ... the main character is totally uninteresting and evokes no positive feelings ... the writing is competent but snarky, and also repetitive ... the tour guide information, country after country, is paper-thin and offers no particular insights
It's been said (in a catty way, of course) that after age 42 gay men become invisible, that no one wants an older gay man except, if they're lucky, another gay man. Andrew Sean Greer's beautifully moving but slightly uneven new novel,  Less , deals with a man coming to terms approaching his 50th birthday, wondering if he'll ever find true love, and trying to define himself and his career. No small feat, there!When he was in his early 20s, he was the boyfriend of Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Rober
Even though the relationship ended after a few years, Arthur has always been defined somewhat as the former boyfriend of Robert Brownburn, even as he experienced a slight bit of renown in his own literary career.
Robert will always be Arthur's first love, even though Arthur knows he frittered away the relationship as many much-younger gay men would.As Arthur's 50th birthday approaches, he is in the midst of a crisis.
This is a beautifully written, lyrical, comic, often profound and moving Pulitzer winning novel, to me it often feels like a gay version of Eat, Pray, Love.
A little known, gay and inconsequential writer, Arthur Less, is approaching 50 with fear, his body is displaying all the physical symptoms of getting older.
His problems are intensified because his current amour has dropped him and he has received a wedding invitation from the love of his life, a famous celebrity poet, Robert, a man with whom he had a relationship for nine years.
Less is a flawed man, charming, self obsessed, so body conscious, and a fascinating central character.
Certain elements had potential, such as Less's fear of aging and his emotions surrounding past romantic relationships.
I feel like I just read 272 pages of a man who feels angsty, uses his resources to travel around the world, and then gets a happy ending with little to no actual agency or self-development on his part.
I wanted to see more of his journey to address his issues and not just his travels, surface-level conversations, and thoughts about romantic relationships.While I took pleasure in finally finishing this book I take little pleasure in writing negative reviews, so here's hoping to a better read in the future.
Read on.***Glenn Sumi: I'm here with Arthur Less, the author of several books, including his bold debut novel, Kalipso [polite applause] Mr. Less is also hero of Andrew Sean Greer's novel Less.
Also, just as it’s pointed out in the book, you don’t look a day over 35.AL [blushes]: Aw, thanks.
In the meantime…GS: … yes, yes, I’m going to look up his earlier books!AL: I think my author would like that![polite applause from the audience as Arthur Less and his interviewee leave the stage]
A character in the book actually wins a Pulitzer (foreshadowing?) and another warns Less never to win an award, that doing so ruins authors.
While the book is decidedly a comedy, Less can only (comically) see his life as a series of tragedies.
And, you know, his … his sorrows … ” to which a character replies “A white middle-aged American man walking around with his white middle-aged American sorrows?
It’s a little hard to feel sorry for a guy like that." Yet here we are!
A book about a white middle-aged American man's sorrows has won the Pulitzer.
The writing was magnificent, the witticisms numerous, but couldn’t get into the all-over-the-place story.
looks like you and I will be meeting out for drinks after all.What's that now?
Mere semantics.Let's meet out, Andrew, and start with appetizers.
the rare, but fabulous kind, where you keep ordering food you're too nervous to eat, because the anticipation is building and all you can think about is the magnetic connection of lips.And, I've seen your lips, Andrew, on the back of this book.
Oh, I've seen your lips.(Wow, this is getting really inappropriate.
Love is the point.
The only point.The only point: Arthur Less, falling.
Falling in love.
Picking a book that celebrates the power of love!!)He kisses—how do I explain it?
Like someone in love.
There are some men who have never been kissed like that.
What a fabulous, fantastic, gorgeous book!
How on earth did something like this win something so serious as the Pulitzer?
I am amazed.I loved every beautifully written word.
How could you possibly not fall in love with Arthur Less?
At first you conform with Arthur's opinion of himself but as the book progresses you start to realise that other people do not see him the way he sees himself.
I read a library book which I have to take back.
This is a book I need to keep on my shelf.
Loved it.
Forty-nine year old San Franciscan author Arthur Less has just been left by his lover of nine years and his latest book has been spurned by his publisher.
Less commences with his trip and his adventures, encounters and reminiscences about his past life and relationships make up the heart of this lovely book.
Everything about this book is gently handled - the humor, the characters, the foibles and insecurities that are Arthur Less.
I loved Less in the same way that I loved Count Alexander Rostov in "A Gentleman in Moscow." The books and main characters are certainly different, but something about Less captured my heart in the same way the courtly Rostov did.
But then our book club picked it for our December read, so I had no choice but to start up with it again.
A lot of the book is spent with Less remembering either his first romance with Robert, an author of some renown, or his more recent relationship with Freddie, the one getting married.
Less is not a sympathetic character, at least in the beginning.
I’m thinking the blurb does the writer a disservice.
So I’m definitely in the minority.
I’m thinking this might have been a better book to read than listen to it.
Follows a random travelogue of clumsy and awkward encounters, until the princes complete their respective inner journeys and realise at the kitsch ending that they know what they want in life:"LESS!" That is the pay off.
And they lived (less) happily ever after.I want more than that.
I will make sure to add seasonal considerations to my book picks from now on.Or just accept that Pulitzers are traditionally meh in my reading universe.Can't think of any nice ending to this anecdotal reflection without meaning, so I will just leave it in medias res.
He's a writer, and his latest, unfinished book is about the sorrows of a middle aged gay guy in San Fransisco.
It was really hard to feel sorry for Arthur Less, a thrice published author known for his loving, lengthy relationship with a Pulitzer prize winning poet, a man who seems to have no problem attracting other men due to his innocent good looks, and who lives in relative financial stability.
He's a man of privilege, of a certain amount of success, who belongs to a network of intelligent, "it-crowd" friends who know and love him.
h o l y s h i t loved this one.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “Just for the record: happiness is not bullshit.” I picked up Less for one reason and one reason alone . . . . .  “You won?”“It’s not Pew-lit-sir. It’s Pull-it-sir. Holy fuck, Arthur, I won.” Occasionally I like to prove that I don’t live on porn and murder alone and venture out. The world of award winners has generally worked out pretty well for me and, although I’m not a zealot about it, I try to squeeze in a Pulitzer, Man Booker o
“You won?”“It’s not Pew-lit-sir.
Holy fuck, Arthur, I won.”
Occasionally I like to prove that I don’t live on porn and murder alone and venture out.
Quickly approaching 50 with one former partner dying and another getting married, Arthur feels he has no choice but to do one thing .
From Paris to Berlin to Morocco, Arthur will become quite the globetrotter in order to avoid facing the facts that he’s not getting any younger .
I guess my main problem with poor Arthur was .
“You talk like a child.
I chose this book because the reviews implied it was hilarious. It was funny-ish, but not the gut-clenching laugh bomb I was hoping for. The story felt more like a surface-level, gay "Eat, Pray, Love" type of sojourn. And it was kind of depressing. Just not my thing, especially when I expected funny. : (
A very funny book, at times I laughed out loud, not easy for a writer to accomplish. Less is almost 50, has just had his lover of 9 years leave him for another man and feels likes he hasn't done much in his life. He decides to accept a bunch of writer's lectures and other assorted invitations to journey around the world and forget his woes. Woes goes with you though.
Debunks Forster's "Maurice" as having the happiest ending EVER for a gay love story; it contains its won contemporary form of genuine sweetness.
I read this quite carefully, underlining countless passages, as it will be out first LGBTQBC (Book Club) selection here at 'The Drop,' Denver.
I could not have chosen a better novel!Its optimism is its main attribute.
It is very funny, too.
The Single Sad Gay Man is deconstructed and we are better humans (not to say, fortunate readers) for it--his sadness is his flag, but also, ultimately, a ruse.
This one is destined to become a classic of 21st century LGBTQ+ literature.
Will you come to wear the skin a little tighter?
Still, Arthur Less felt like a kin.
And as he hops from Italy to France, Morocco to India, and beyond, I begin to see the world from his shoes and well, feel its pinch and caress first hand.Arthur Less cracks all too often under emotional pressures; he also dons a toughie during a collective meltdown.
He travels to the other end of the world to escape his wounds; he also holds them tight like a moon does its scars.
Like someone in love.
And I felt like hugging him tight.
I also felt like hugging Greer tight.
Long after they separated, Arthur is still invited to many events and conferences, using his own novels as an excuse, but organisers really wanting the inside scoop on his friends.He happens to be gay, and the satire about some of the gay community may be lost on me (I like to think not), but his situation is the same as most single 49-year-olds on the very eve of their 50th birthday.
It’s not a “gay” novel – no graphic sex to thrill or annoy readers.Arthur had a fair bit of success with his first novel, although the NY Times review dismissed him as a “magniloquent spoony”, but he’s between partners and a bit strapped for cash.After Robert, he loved Freddy, who never fit Less’s idea of a life companion.
It's a beautiful story of a man coming to terms with age and regret, trying to find his place in a world that seems to be moving on without him.Arthur Less is an American novelist approaching his fiftieth year.
There are some men who discover, after Arthur Less, that they never will be again." He talks about the comfort of settling down with someone you feel entirely at ease with, "the time when any couple has found its balance, and passion has quieted from its early scream, but gratitude is still abundant; what no one realizes are the golden years." But what is true love, really?
Love isn’t terrifying like that.
If anything, the first bits of the book had the lyrical prose and strong sense of voice that I expect from Pulitzer winners, but didn't wow me with its story.
Less is both the book that you wouldn't expect to win the Pulitzer and one entirely deserving of the honour.
What's more, the prose in this book isn't dense, but it is filled to the brim with subtle humour that I'm sure evaded me on this first read.
This may not be the multi-generational, immediately-relevant, tragic Pulitzer-winner that I was expecting from the panel, but that's something for which I'm glad.
"Less" is a love letter to all of us who've made mistakes. It's a love letter for us who've been lucky to live long enough to do really stupid stuff (and admit it to ourselves) when it comes to love, life, and aging. The audiobook performer is superb.
The Hook - When one of my good friends and fellow GR Reader asked for suggestions for suggestions for a diverse literary read to intersperse with what her mood is seeking, dear author, Will Schwalbethat he is suggested Less by Andrew Sean Greer.
It made me laugh, it made me sad, it made me pine for lost love, lost opportunities, and reflect again on what I want from life.
If you read the many fine reviews by fans on GR, you will also see passages that stood out to these readers.
I love this in a book.
His itinerary:•	 a public interview with a beloved scifi author he is barely aware of in New York City•	a literary festival in Mexico where Arthur will speak about.....the literary legacy of his other significant ex (a now elderly and bedridden Pulitzer-Prize winning author)•	an obscure literary awards ceremony in Italy•	a visiting professorship in Germany •	a surprise layover in Paris•	a journey via camel across the Moroccan desert in celebration of the 50th birthday of the friend of an acquaintance•	a writer's retreat in Southern India•	and finally, a brief sojourn in Kyoto to write an article on local cuisine.It all sounds pretty good, if maybe a little like a gay, fictional version of Eat, Pray, Love.
Less is the novel I always want to be reading: funny, smart, bookish and a bit erudite but still accessible, skillful, poignant, moving, and (did I mention?) funny.
All I want is another book like Less.I recognize that for some people and groups, the character of Arthur Less may be a bit been-there, seen-that, so I will point you to my GR friend Conor's review for a counterargument.
So, yay Arthur Less!
And yay Andrew Sean Greer!
Say, Andrew Sean Greer, all your other novels look like historical fiction, which I don't particularly want to read, although I might.
Self doubt, embarrassment, fear and a propensity for heartbreak are all too close to the surface.
He is 'Someone without skin' ..............The book is peppered with gently amusing vignettes, misunderstandings and embarrassments.
These, together with a wistful (and wise) look at the nature of love, make Less a thought provoking, moving and funny read.At one point Arthur Less is is accused of not being a good enough 'gay' author - although he is gay, this isn't really a book about being gay, gay culture or gay issues.
