https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25350.Out_of_the_Silent_Planet
You don't review C.S. Lewis. He reviews you.
Without giving too much away, he creates a situation where all humans are helplessly screwed by the galacto-spiritual system, but then he manages to still blame them for being ignorant and desperate.Like in his other books, the climax is both caused and fixed by an infinitely wise spirit of goodness who carefully explains everything to us and who resolves the conflict by having everyone laugh at the villain's wretchedness for a chapter and then being so powerful that it turns out there was never any conflict in the first place.But yeah, the climax was extremely lame with Lewis just building up Straw Men and then knocking them down, one after the other, all the while ignoring the fact that the villain is the logical result of the supposedly beneficent system.There's also the odd issue of the alien languages as presented in the book.
Ooh. Man, I love a good title.
So basically, this book is about a man named Ransom who is abducted by these two crazy professor dudes, and taken to a planet called Malacandra (or, Mars).
Where Narnia was written in a very simplistic style (which I personally preferred), Out of the Silent Planet goes heavy on the adjectives, and there were points when I was thinking, “How many fancy words can you use to describe one thing?!” Although Lewis’ descriptive passages are a bit heavy and at times dull, he makes up for it with a mastery of dialogue.
It is not by tribal taboos and copy-book maxims that she has pursued her relentless march from the amoeba to man and from man to civilization.''He says,' began Ransom, 'that living creatures are stronger than the question whether an act is bent or good - no, that cannot be right - he says it is better to be alive and bent than to be dead - no - he says, he says - I cannot say what he says, Oyarsa, in your language.
I stand in awe of his ability to bring together elements of Scandinavian and Celtic and Greek and Roman and English literature to create a universe that can hold the galaxy-spanning intellects of the eldila and the very physical, in-the-moment instincts of tame bears and all the people and creatures inbetween.Lewis obviously wrote out of a particular time and culture, and some aspects of his trilogy are "dated." But the books have held up for me over the years.
S. Lewis, his way of writing, or what he stands for.
The former is not surprising given the story that these books came about from a discussion Tolkien and Lewis had about the need to write ‘the kind of stories they liked’ in which they would describe a world in which what we view as fanciful myth actually has objective reality; it was agreed that they would each take a different perspective from which to view this: the former would tackle time-travel and the latter space-travel.
Lewis was looking for something that was truly unique, something never before captured in a work of science fiction; the genuinely alien.
Ransom is taken in by the alien, a Hross named Hyoi, and, given that Weston and Devine are not likely to take him back to Earth, settles in for what appears to be a long stay.His training as a philologist serves him well and it is not long before he is able to converse with the Hrossa, a water-loving race who bear a faint resemblance to giant otters.
Imagine if there were actually other planets in our solar system that were populated by other intelligent races.
There were so many fascinating premises laid out in this short book, some of which I expect to mull over for months to come.While the philosophical aspects were the standout elements for me, Lewis also did a wonderful job on his creation of alien races and landscapes.
It felt far more antiquated than I expected from Lewis, but I feel like that was part of the point.
It undoubtedly is a book worth reading; just make sure you’re in the mood for something very academic before picking it up.
Or would it make it easier for power mongers to destroy the world as it was known and create an enslaved class of proportions never before seen in the history of mankind?H.G. Wells is our best known Science Fiction writer of the time and he certainly expressed in stark descriptions the sort of world we would all be living in if man learned how to become invisible or create giants or time travel.Even E.M. Forster provides a provocative possibility in his short story "The Machine Stops" of how alienated humans could become to each other thanks to modern inventions "taking care" of our every need.As much as I enjoy Wells, Forster, and as well as any number of Steampunk authors, the fact is none of them inspire hope.
(one of the books I often re-read throughout the year)A discussion between Ransom and a creature of Malacandra by the name of Hyoi, that began with Ransom asking if the three main races of Malacandra ever fight, then Ransom must explain about warring peoples of the Earth and how they fight over resources.
This is what we call love."-Hyoi"If a thing is a pleasure, a 'hman' wants it again.
He might want the pleasure more often than the number of young that could be fed."-Ransom"You mean," said Hyoi slowly, "that he might do it not only in one or two years of his life but again?""Yes"-Ransom"But why?
3.5 stars. First book in the classic "Space Trilogy" by C. S. Lewis. Much like the Chronicles of Narnia, this story has a very "Christian" feel to it and deals with the nature of the universe, the struggle of good and evil and the status of "Earth" as "The Silent Planet." Well written, entertaining and thought provoking.
C.S. Lewis is best known and loved for his wonderful Narnia books, where religious allegory is woven into exciting and wondrous fantasy adventures aimed primarily at children.
The aliens in this book are mostly very old school; bipedal, a little human or animal-like, no talking amoebic blobs of jelly here.
His prose is literary, elegant and refined, at the same time his story telling is clear and visual, it is not hard to picture what is transpiring in the book in your imagination as you read; this makes for a pleasantly immersive experience.The pace of the book started as something of a romp and gradually settle down to pastoral episodes and profound philosophical musings about the nature of humanity, morality, good and evil.
Likewise, his science fiction SPACE TRILOGY can be read as allegory, though it’s subtle enough to be enjoyed by those who don’t appreciate allegorical stories and just want to read a thoughtful science fiction adventure with an intelligent hero.In Out of the Silent Planet, the first book in the trilogy, Dr. Elwin Ransom, a Cambridge philology professor, is kidnapped and taken by spaceship to Mars, which is called Malacandra by the alien species that live there.
Lewis sets up an allegorical story (somewhat heavily influenced by his classical education it must be admitted.) A thought provoking work.
His picture of "God" (and the angelic beings) brought to mind (for me) somewhat, the "picture" painted in The Silmarillion by J.R.R.Tolkien (maybe that shouldn't be that surprising as they were friends and read their work to each other also discussing it with each other as well as the other Inklings).
This is an exceptional book and without giving "spoilers", Lewis's word pictures, his universe (multiverse ?) building and story are amazing.
If the Chronicles of Narnia are C.S. Lewis' attempt (and a wonderful one) to write Christian children's fables, then this trilogy seems to be his attempt to write Christian science fiction.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
First read Out of the Silent Plant back in 2005.
Lewis is one of those authors whose value grows as you get to know him*.
All these possibilities and more are explored by Lewis in Out of the Silent Plant.Once again in this book, Lewis is trying to take us to the seashore ...
*Four years of living and extensive travel in England ('81-'85) went a long way to increasing my understanding of where Lewis is coming from—that and a lifelong love of literature, especially Brit lit.
S. Lewis quote: “I am a product [...of] endless books.
I am attempting it for the third time.All this is to say that I am 36 minutes in and for a second I almost forgot what I was listening to, because I felt as if C.S. Lewis were telling me about John Carter of Mars (another book I've never been able to get very far with).
I've gotten far enough in that (many times) to know about the travel to a different planet disorientation.
Through his Cosmic Trilogy, and in opposition to the Wellsian archetype, C.S. Lewis attempts to carefully reconstruct the common, horrific fallacy that falls under what (or rather who) lies in outer space. He offers a—supposedly—fictionalised account of Martian events which, in a way, scoffs at the purely scientific intellect, and is thoroughly nourished with incorporeal elements which, again, contrive to set pleasant connotations for alienness.
I liked it. It wasn't my favorite C.S. Lewis book, but it was very creative especially at a time where space travel hadn't actually happened yet.
Lewis, as Michael Ward has pointed out, followed the night sky carefully and understood medieval star symbolism; his imagined landscape for Mars is fanciful, but his concept of the physical relation of the planets is almost certainly scientific (based on the science of 1938), and his astronomical imagery probably has imports that my rudimentary understanding can't make out.For those of us accustomed to Star Wars and Star Trek, Ransom's space travel seems quaint and more native to fantasy than science fiction.

https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
C.S. Lewis does this thing while I’m reading his books that makes me feel like I’m slogging through deep, mystifying waters, but the moment I reach the end and see the larger picture I think “Oh!
However, I really liked the ending, the allegorical nature of the story, and I loved the way it was framed.
Lewis knows how to use words, and even though I find them a bit slow to get through, he shapes them beautifully.Was I satisfied?This book was slow for me to get through, I slogged through it for three months, but in the end Lewis hit me with the ending and I fell for the allegorical nature of his story.
I'm going to go ahead and say it: I liked this better than Chronicles of Narnia.
C.S. Lewis created such a beautiful, immersive, believable science fiction world that follows quite obviously in the H.G. Wells tradition.
I loved the species of intelligent creatures he created, the language, and the descriptions of the landscapes.Also, I thought this was a really cool way of combining Christian traditions about good, evil, sin, etc.
All in all, I'm marking this is as one my favorite sci-fi classics.
It's also the first Christian sci-fi, off the top of my head, that I've really enjoyed.
This was about my fourth read of Out of the Silent Planet, the first book in the Ransom Trilogy.
Lewis does an amazing job of evoking Malacandra with its three sentient (hnau) live forms and its eldila and chief eldil, the Oyarsa.
Once he read David Lindsay's Voyage to Arcturus, Lewis discovered what planets are really for.
He evokes a medieval view of cosmology in the high heavens and reminds us of spiritual realities we often forget.
I'm currently rereading the trilogy since I'm preparing a course in C.S. Lewis, His Life, Works and the Deep Magic for the JMU Lifelong Learning Institute.
*3/4 stars*I don't read a lot of science fiction; I am not entirely sure what I think about this book right now. The writing is good, I just don't know how I liked it, lol. I guess I'll have to check the series out and see how I like the others.
These usually contain made up languages, strange creatures, and some sort of, "this is the first time in HISTORY that..." motif (See also: The first time two tributes survived, the first time our test showed someone as divergent, the first time someone so young showed such rare promise...).
And there was definitely a "first time in history" motif in Lewis' Out of the Silent Planet.
Once, he states that it looked as though there was a strange growth on Earth as they looked at it from their space ship--oh-nope, wait, that's just the moon.
In that book, one of the two characters on the expedition attempts to communicate with the Selenites, while is partner is little more than a 19th century conquistador.In Out of the Silent Planet, author C.S. Lewis has one character -- Ransom -- kidnapped by Devine and Weston, who are interested primarily in exploiting the gold on Mars (called Malacandra in the book).
During his stay on the planet, he alternates between fear and fascination.There appears to be a planetary leader, called the Oyarsa, who has summoned Ransom to ask him questions about how men on earth have gotten "bent," i.e., gone wrong.
Lewis knows how to create a world that enthralls the reader.
Everyone dies eventually although we try to push it off as far as we can.In the same way, humanity is obsessed with trying to preserve things, whether it's individual species of animals, the planet as a whole, or all of humankind (ie: the desire to create another habitable planet if ours is no longer livable sometime in the future).But what if all these efforts are futile attempts at avoiding what is not only unavoidable, but good.
What if the end (of life, of the world, of humanity) is not to be feared, but to be met with calm acceptance as only a part of the cycle.
[UpdatedI had given this three stars because I was tired of giving two star reviews but I've made peace with that now]The parts I liked were basically the conversations and exploration of different species, and world building when it was connected to something meaningful (which I apparently have a specific bar for). Everything else put me to sleep. #keepingItReal In defense of the book, I am a very sleepy person.
