https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25222064-old-school
3.5-4This is my favorite cover of the series.
I love the black and white.I liked this one, just not as much as the others.
I felt this could have went in a totally different direction and had way more laughs.
I expected to see how Greg would react to 'old school' devices and way of life.
We instead got Greg having to go without technology completely and off to camp for a week.
It wasn't quite what I had expected, but still a fun read.Before readingIt may be a little sad how excited I am about this book...
Dit boek gelezen van mijn zoon...herkenbare, hilarische situaties...regelmatig hardop gelachen...voor jong en oud een aanrader!!
3.5 stars actually!!
It Was fun!!
Of course it was fun.
But it was not just laugh out loud fun like the previous ones!!
Here Jeff tried to show how much obsessed has greg's generation(!) become with technologies :p so he put our poor greg into some less modern situations and lead him to do some camping.
And what happened afterwards it, was not greg's fault believe me !
He was just being himself :)  Expected a bit more fun and a tiny bit more maturity from Greg.
:) I think its finally time to say goodbye to Greg, think about it Mr. Kinney..
Things are not getting better for Greg with time.
Getting sent back from the camp twice for health issues is an augury for times to come.Greg is always a stay-at-home person.
Perhaps, the book might be about the old times, but I have to strain really hard to get to the era when pigs walked on two legs and watched TV or wrote ciphered letters.Jeff Kinney points out glaringly obvious fact - going back in the old era makes you learn next to nothing.
It was great to see Dad and Greg getting along well towards the end.This is more than a children's series!
It is the tenth book of Diary of a Wimpy Kid series, preceded by Diary of a Wimpy Kid: The Long Haul and followed by Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Double Down.
This book debuted at No.1 on bestseller charts in India.Greg Heffley's grandfather has been living with his family (due to being unable to pay for the rent at the retirement home).
Greg is irritated because Grandpa decides to stay in his room, forcing Greg to sleep on an air bed in younger brother Manny's room.
However, he decides not to attend.
Ah the humor :) Jeff Kinney has a knack for making readers sympathize with and scorn Greg at the same time ^^Sometimes Greg's whiny-ness is entirely justified, and other times you just want to slap him and that family of his!
Reading it was like living it, and I am kind of a clean freak so ew!
Silas Scratch the Undead Farmer will probably haunt me next time I go camping........Seriously though, it was such a fun light read :D It made me smile and laugh when I felt miserable from my sore throat!
And I'm sure you all will too!!And no, I'm not too old for these books!
No one is too old to get a good laugh :D
I CANT EVEN READ IT
the worst in the whole series. I hardly find humor in this one. I haven't understand why Jeff didn't use Manny properly . he is one of the main source of laughter. it's a disappointment for me.
I could be tense or upset or tired and all I have to do is just read a page or two of The Wimpy Kid and it totally cracks me up.
His brother Rodrick was never his favourite and younger brother Manny is getting potty trained, too, which means the latter must roam around the house without pants every night-- not a very savoury situation for poor Greg as you can see.His school has always been a struggle, and now his home, too.
I gave this book as a birthday present to someone very special and it was totally worth it.
I will never tire of this wonderful series.I own and have read all of the books apart from the very latest two which I will of course be getting too!These books are just a fun fly of a read and the nostalgia welcomes me back to these quirky characters and their extraordinary situations.Greg is just relatable on so many levels and I seem to relate to him the older I get, funnily enough.
These books are wonderful for a reading slump or just some light and fun material to enjoy in general.I hope this series never ends, the books keep getting better and better!Where will Greg and his crazy life take us next?Let’s find out in the next book!
I've been continually impressed by how high the quality of the Wimpy Kid books have been as the series has progressed.
I wonder if that's part of the reason why this one was just okay.The charm of the books comes from the seemingly tied together stories to go along with the broader arc.
I'd say the issue with this one was that the story with Greg's grandfather wasn't terribly engaging, and the rest was ultimately forgettable almost as soon as I read it.
If you've read the first nine and you're a kid obsessed with this series, this won't be the thing to change your mind.
I imagine I'll keep reading these as long as Kinney continues putting them out.I wish I knew when they'd be over though.
I don't like the thought of it just ending.
And I kept the thing for years.I thought it was funny when Heffley said early on (page 15), "And to be honest with you, I feel like I've been in middle school FOREVER." As a 7th grade teacher, I often feel the same way.
I just started to feel like I've been rating too high for too long.
have any cats done anything amusing today?"As always, it's good stuff.
He thinks it's not true.
But will it be easy for a wimpy kid who has now a pig in his home as a pet, a pig who's manny's favorite, walks in two legs and such a mastermind who knows how to remove a GPS collar from its neck, that too wearing Manny's pants!!Will it be possible with Gregory having his Grandpa in his house for the summer who is as crazy as anyone in the series, having party over the house when nobody's home, sending invites to all other adults, messing up with the house rules and getting a time-out for it!!!Will it be possible for Gregory to have a normal life with everyone around him getting on his nerves and making things a way too weird for him!!Will his summers ever go as he planned or like always he'll get to say 'Summer didn't go as I planned!'.To have a good time, read this one!
I think I'm hyperventilating[image error]
my brother let me borrow his books, and said for me to read his favourite series, Diary of A Wimpy Kid. And I thought that was adorable so I read the whole thing in an hour. Such a easy read to get through and can be enjoyed at any age. Awesome book!
Now I understand why my little sister loves these books.They are hilarious!!! hhaahaha
Series done!(:
Διασκεδαστικό βιβλίο, για μικρούς - και όχι μόνο - αναγνώστες, αλλά νομίζω ότι η ποιότητα έχει πέσει λίγο σε σχέση με τα προηγούμενα! Εννοείται ότι η οικογένεια του Γκρεγκ είναι.. κάπως ιδιαίτερη... αλλά όχι και τόσο... Μου άρεσε πολύ πάντως η περιπέτεια στην ερημιά κατασκήνωση, σίγουρα όμως δεν θα ήθελα να συμμετέχω (Τζίσους που θα έλεγε και η ξενέρωτη!!!)
Jeff never gets old. I really liked this book, I'm a huge fan of Greg. I loved the characters in this one but I kind of missed Rowley and Manny. But it was great and funny. This is my favorite cover of all.I can't wait to read the next one!
AHAHAAHHAH OH GOD I LOVE THESE BOOKS SO MUCHHHH
It is good
دوست داشتنى مثل ٩ تاى قبلى..خيلى باهاش حال كردم مخصوصن كه زبان اصلى خوندم
I mean...the pig that Greg and his family found in book nine learned how to walk in two legs like a human and NOT ONLY THAT, it is implied that it learned how to write as well.
There were some things, though that I liked and these ones made me vote this book with 4 stars.The camp story.
It proved that Greg's father is EXACTLY like him and in my opinion, this means a lot.
Plus, the whole thing that happened in the camp, Silas Scratch and everything made me roll on my bed from too much laughing.Overall, it was a good book.
The pet pig from the last book, Diary of a Wimpy Kid: The Long Haul is back.
Roderick gets a job and Grandpa (Dad's dad) moves in.
But some things never change, Greg is still in middle school.
As he says on page 15, I feel like I've been in middle school FOREVER.
This school year, Greg's grade gets to go on a class trip to Hardscrabble Farms for a few days.
Greg has no interest in attending a back to nature field trip, but after a mishap at home he decides the best thing to do is lay low and go on the class trip.
Gosh, I never tire of this series. This installment was not as 'tight' as some of its predecessors, but it still managed to make me laugh out loud a couple of times.I was glad to see Greg's father having a more meaningful role in this volume, although introducing grandpa into the mix felt a little forced. The best part was the week-long camp section, where all of Heffley's dubious qualities came to the fore. It's interesting how Kinney is able to make us feel both affection and disdain for the same character!
This books are just a hoot. I agree with my Boy (age 11) that the previous one, about the road trip, was funnier, but this was still awesome. I love the grandpa's online dating, and really felt for him, being shipped off to an old timey farm with insufficient supplies . . . it reminded me of girls' camp with my church youth group as a teen. (I am not a willing camper.)
*3.5* I can never let go of my love to this series, even though this book was slightly disappointing.
It was a good book. It got me into the reading zone
This book was very funny, but it wasn't my favorite.
one acronym is enough to describe the whole book, "lol."
