https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85459.Northern_Lights
Okay that does it. I'm moving to Alaska!
I think this is the first dude-lit book I've ever read.
Maybe it was the narrator (who was brilliant), or just the character of Nate <3 but I really enjoyed this one.What's really surprising is that the story here is REALLY slow, the romance as well, the suspense takes hours to get to it, but damn, I didn't really give a sh*t ahahahhahahah I just wanted to know more about him and his past and how he adjusts to life in Alaska.Watched the movie too.
Sucked.
But the main actor was cute, so it wasn't a total waste XD
3,5 Estrellas.Nora Roberts es una de las autoras a las que recurro cuando acabo de leer un libro que no me ha gustado y no sé qué lectura elegir a continuación porque desconfío de mi instinto.
Es algo así como beber una taza de té caliente (al menos para mí)."Aurora boreal" tiene la típica estructura de los libros de la señora Roberts y mezcla misterio con una historia de amor.
Me ha gustado especialmente que la señora Roberts se haya arriesgado con un protagonista que sufre una depresión y no tiene miedo de reconocerlo.
bUdDy rEaD wItH mY BeLgIuM wAfFlEThis was slow, but I've read books that are slower.
Loved the journal entries the most, and everything how Alaska was described, especially because I have always wanted to go and see it.
Didn't like the main heroine till almost the end.
Started to like her when she started to act more ...
I would even love it more without romance in it, but then I wouldn't experience him in the throes of passion and that would suck a lot.But I have to admit that this is the first book ever by Nora Roberts that I finished it.
Roberts adds in tons of details about Alaska and the population of Lunacy, Alaska that makes this book really come alive.
"Northern Lights" follows former Baltimore police officer Nate Burke to Lunacy, Alaska.
Nate started to bug me since Roberts had him doing the alpha male thing (romance novel trope) where he is the big bad man who will protect his woman.
I am glad though that Roberts doesn't have Meg changing herself to suit Nate.
We have the mayor (Hop), the journalists, Meg's mother, the professor, the cook at the lodge, the brothers who keep getting into trouble, Nate's deputies, etc.Roberts really did take her time making everyone come alive in this one.
This was Nate's book, not Meg's, and man, was that ever cool.
One of Nora's biggest strengths is her wonderfully flawed, quirky, sexy, fully-fleshed out male characters; and with Northern Lights she finally gave the man a starring role.
Nor was the growing relationship between Nate and Meg. It was the story of Nate making himself a place.
Wonderfully colourful and endearing characters, a beautiful setting, a mystery that kept me wondering until the very end; Northern Lights was a juicy and fun read and left me with a big smile on my face.
Besides the fact that one of GRs friends (Thank you, Pa!) told me that NORTHERN LIGHTS had some similarities to THE WITNESS, (my favorite NR’s romantic suspense), I was intrigued to see the story posted under What Book Would You Like To Live In?.
I found it refreshing that she chose Nate to suffer from this disease and that she told the story from his POV.
The townspeople were a contrary sort but Nate eventually formed an odd type of fondness for most of them.
And before long, there was a mystery with a fair amount of suspense.
I still favor THE WITNESS but I enjoyed Nate's adventures, too.
http://mrs-margot.blogspot.pt/  A slow reading but get us trapped with the mystery of "who is the killer?", making us distrust different people with each chapter we read and leaving our nerves to the skin.
Nate is a rich character who makes us want to confort him and let his ghosts fade, we want to cherish his heart and heal every wound.
A passionate character undoubtedly, unlike Meg, who is cold, distant, physical, carnal, wears armor and lifts a fortress around her and doesn't let anyone into her heart, solves things with sex and when things start to staying out of her control, she tends to flee and isolate herself.
Me ha gustado, aunque se me ha hecho un poco largo, quizá demasiada paja cuando ya sabíamos quién era el culpable desde la mitad del libro más o menos.
Y lo que se hace de rogar Nora para darnos una escena sobre los sentimientos de la pareja...Lo que siempre me gusta de ella es que no te presenta a una prota fuerte e independiente para luego convertirla en una pánfila.
Nada que decir sobre el protagonista, salvo que se lo compro.Las pocas escenas románticas, chapó.
Alguna me la he leído hasta un par de veces, aunque carezcan de azúcar (o quizá sea por eso).
Her descriptions of its harshness, quirkiness, and more importantly, its beauty, leaves me breathless every time and makes me want to experience it myself, even though I hate winter and snow.[return][return]Meg is the perfect heroine.
In her earlier novels, Ms. Roberts' heroines were fabulously wealthy, impossibly beautiful and people that are more the exception than the norm.
I really like the fact that her heroines, including Meg, are much more believable and relatable.[return][return]I also adore Ms. Roberts' portrayal of men.
To me, he's just another enjoyable character.[return][return]This book definitely kept me turning pages long into the wee hours of the night.
It was a good escape - kept my interest all the way through.AUDIOBOOK NARRATOR:Gary Littman did a fine job.STORY BRIEF:Nate was a cop in Baltimore.
He left Baltimore to become police chief of a small town in Alaska, hoping to further lose himself.
I enjoyed watching what life was like for a small town police chief, breaking up fights, taking care of drunks, dealing with teenage orneriness.
Nate was a good man, taking care of his town.
The love story between Nate and Meg could have used more relationship development.
It started with Meg wanting casual sex and later they sort of realized they were in love.
*Buddy read with V <333*There's so many things I loved in that book.First, the fact that the book was told from the hero's POV.
It's not the first book Nora Roberts wrote that way, but I love her heroes in general so it's always a good surprise when she does it.
Second, I loved the way she spoke of Alaska and climbing in extreme conditions.
Finally, I loved both MCs and the secondary characters.
As the book is focused on Nate's personal journey, the pace, romance or suspense wise, is slow but it's really worth the read.
When he sees her the next day he tries to decide if she’s pretty.She shouldn’t have been—her eyebrows were too straight, her nose a little crooked, her mouth top-heavy.That’s what he thinks about Meg, his future love interest, but her mom was man-killer Barbie.There’s something wrong with this picture.He’s just attracted to everybody, isn’t he?Nora Roberts is so obsessed with having there be jealousy and conflict that she doesn’t realize just how perverted and wrong it comes out as.
Being so direct that you go out of your way to use bad language isn’t admirable, it isn’t funny, it’s unnecessary and classless.He goes to Meg’s house and she just assumes he wants sex, which is very forward and she seems a little full of herself that she thinks she’s so desirable.
I used to read Nora Roberts back in the days when I was young and foolish and YA didn't exist yet, and I remembered liking her stuff.
A body is found, and it's a cold case for two reasons: 1.
The murder was committed like 15 years ago; and2.
Probably a 3.5 star book.
I live tweeted my reading of this book on Twitter, so there's a whole thread over there if you want more quotes and ridiculousness.
It's like every single line between Meg and Nate was taken from a book of truly terrible pick up lines.
Was it the worst book I've ever read?
► STORY: Nate Burke is a Baltimore cop, who went to the Lunacy town in Alaska to be a chief of police after death of his partner makes him go into shock, severe depression and nightmares.
As soon as they meet, they feel attracted to each other and soon start a friends-with-benefits relationship.After one particular incident happened on the mountain, the town is thrown into chaos when the news of a discovered body is spread.
Most of the time, she loves thinking only of herself, but Nate's sad and tired eyes break her cold interior...
I also liked cop trio beside Nate, I just loved them.
They were so adorable and so right for each other.Some parts or quotes that I liked/loved : 1.) “What are these?”Meg looked at the rings of keys in Nate’s hand, deliberately furrowed her brow.
“Meg, you don’t even lock your doors half the time.
What are all these keys about?”“Well… There are times a person needs to get into a place, and hey, that place is locked.
Then she would need a key.”“And this place that, hey, is locked, wouldn’t be the property of that person.
No warrant necessary.”“Gestapo.”“Delinquent.” 2.) “Heroism's just doing more than you want to do or think you can.
Creo que es el primer libro que leo de esta autora, y lo he hecho para un reto... pese a esto, no me ha disgustado, aunque la autora sea una de las más conocidas en el género de intriga con romance.La parte romántica es la justa para merecer ese calificativo, por lo que no se me ha hecho engorrosa. La trama policial, bastante predecible. Los personajes, superficiales, pero coherentes.Resumiendo, si se tercia, volveré a leer algo de la autora.
I seriously loved everything about this book.
I loved spending time with him as he adapted to life in Lunacy.
All of the characters were fully developed, including the secondary ones, which I liked, because it didn't take away from the development of Nate and Meg and their relationship.
Another thing I loved was that it was the heroine who had a nick name for the hero.
I also liked all of Nate's police team.
About Meg. I didn't LOVE her, but I have to say I liked her because she was so unique.
I actually thought she and Nate worked well together.
Damn near half the conversations weren't even necessary.The reason this gets three stars instead of two: I was wrong about the villain.
but once they caught the guy, we should have gotten his explanation aside from "Oh em gee, it was self-defense, you have to believe me!" (view spoiler)[ In the journal entry, the victim writes about how the villain is jealous of him, wants his woman, etc.
Maybe it wasn't as important as the journal entry implied, but that argument and jealousy is what focuses the reader on a specific, though wrong, character.
Nora Robert is, in recent books of hers that I've read, 3 for 3 with the prickly heroines/cool heroes.
Police Detective Nate Burke comes to a small town Lunatic, AK (pop.
Nate is hired on as the Sheriff of the small town.
Almost read like a cozy mystery in places.
The mystery plotline (kept me guessing although I did figure it out before it was revealed) and individual characters were stronger than the romance plotline.
I have noticed that there is a sameness of speech patterns amongst her characters that cross books boundaries.
I don't like to give bad reviews, but sorry, Nora really missed it with this one.
Every other character came across as stupid, slutty, selfish, greedy, or a combination of all the above, and it didn't matter if it were the men or the women.I once read a reader review in which the reader gushed about how she now knew what Alaska was really like.
Come visit for a few months to truly capture the flavor.I have a lot of respect for what Ms. Roberts has accomplished in the Romance genre and writing in general.
This was it for Ms. Roberts.
Fiquei cheia de vontade de visitar o Alasca.
I sometimes wonder if there are two authors named Nora Roberts.
Some of her books are very good, others are so dull beyond belief.
This is one of the good ones.
OK it's a little cliched but burnt out Baltimore cop Nate Burke accepts the job of Police Chief in a remote Alaskan town called Lunacy.
As with many Nora Roberts books the women are tough.
Nate's love interest in this book is Meg Galloway, a shy of commitment bush pilot who takes on bears in her underwear.
You generally know what's coming with a Nora Roberts novel and there are no surprises in this one, but it's still worth the effort.
But being that Meg has had much more experience living in the outskirts of Lunacy, Alaska, facing down tough flights, harsh winters, and wandering wildlife, you'd think he'd trust her instincts more than his own need to protect.Anyway, before I jump on top of another soapbox, I should probably just bring this piece to a close.Northern Lights was pretty entertaining, and no one is more surprised than I am to find how much I enjoyed reading a Romantic Suspense that felt more like a banal Contemporary Romance.
December 29, 2016 - January 1, 2017I read this at almost the EXACT same time last year!
I thought the interaction between mother and daughter kept things really interesting.I liked the mystery aspect of the story.
I totally know who it is!" I was like, "WHOOOOOOO IIISSSS ITTT???!?!??!?!?!?!??!" dying to know if I'd guessed right.The Alaska aspect of it, I didn't think I'd like.
I read that HORRID book, Into the Wild.
It was interesting to think what it would be like if you only had 4 or 5 hours of daylight or if you had 19 or 20 hours of daylight a day.
Luzes do Norte acaba por se afastar dos restantes da escritora pelo seu ambiente inóspito e fechado, tão frio que preserva um homicídio por 16 anos.
Tem também o diferencial pelo protagonista ser um homem.
(Temos também uma protagonista, mas pouco vemos dela, e é pouco o acesso que temos aos seus pensamentos e sentimentos.) E é este homem que vai trazer mudança àquela região, que vai mudar certas dinâmicas e rotinas.
Claro que a Meg tem aqui um grande papel, mas não a achei tão importante como outras protagonistas de outras histórias de Nora Roberts.Quanto aos homicídios decorridos e a todo o mistério de volta deles, devo confessar que foi bem feito.
I had really high expectations for this book - for starters, because I love Nora and tend to love everything she writes, and also because it’s set in Alaska and I thought that would just be really cool.
But the overall story left too much to be desired, and I’m left feeling a little disappointed (I’m sorry, Nora).
Now I’m not saying a romance heroine needs to be a graceful demure lady without a naughty thought in her pretty little head...
Overall, I’m just left a little let down.
Their subsequent rescue when Nate and pilot Megan Galloway weren’t sure if they were searching for the living or the dead started an investigation which went back sixteen years to when Meg’s father disappeared.
Suddenly Nate found his calling once again – finding the truth, digging deeply into events of long ago – his cop instincts hadn’t failed him before and they wouldn’t fail him now.With Nate and Meg’s attraction to each other keeping their personal life interesting, and a current murder investigation keeping Nate busy, strange things began to happen.
É esta a magia das descrições de Nora Roberts, fazem-nos ansiar por uma realidade bem diferente da que vivemos!Surpreendentemente, neste livro temos acesso a uma perspetiva masculina, pouco comum nos romances desta autora.
Nate é um polícia atormentado pelo passado, um homem íntegro e sensível, que enfrenta uma difícil integração numa vila em que é visto como um estranho.
Uma destas é Meg, uma mulher simples mas irreverente, que rapidamente conquista o coração empedernido de Nate.
Mais um excelente romance com o cunho de Nora Roberts!
At 672 kindle pages a little on the long side but nevertheless a really good slow unwinding romantic suspense combining a cold case murder, the quirkiness of a remote small town characters and interesting hero and heroine. And the inclusion of several possible murder suspects meant the whodunit kept my interest to the very end. ★★★★☆ (4.5 stars)
