https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/761623.The_Thirteen_Gun_Salute
"...for him, Truth was what he could make others believe."- Patrick O'Brian, Thirteen-Gun Salute"...What I meant was that if he could induce others to believe what he said, then for him the statement acquired some degree of truth, a reflection of their belief that it was true; and this reflected truth might grow stronger with time and repetition until it became conviction, indistinguishable from ordinary factual truth, or very nearly so.”  (The Thriteen-Gun Salute, 188)Certain O'Brian novels just make me want to soak in them.
Thirteen books in (I wonder if this was purposeful) O'Brian continues to paint and sketch more and more detail on his two protagonists.
O'Brian uses these two men as archetypes of masculinity (I've covered this before).
But each book allows him to shade more, nuance deeper.
Out of all of O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series up to this point, The Thirtheen-Gun Salute gets further away from the sea battles and life aboard ship to really delve into the interior of a new and exciting frontier (in the eyes of the characters as set in a pre-"Planet Earth" world) and paints a not-always-pretty picture of diplomacy in the Far East as it was some 200 years ago.
Intelligence agent, naturalist and ship's surgeon Dr. Maturin takes center stage for much of The Thirteen-Gun Salute.
They called out No reproduction without copulation and tossed it into Boston harbour.' Jack frowned, considered, and said, 'Well, in any event they accomplished little or nothing at sea, that bout.' He passed on to the necessary allowance for dip and refraction to be made in working lunars, matters with which he was deeply familiar; but as he tuned his fiddle that evening he said, 'Stephen, what was the Americans' cry in 1775?' 'No representation, no taxation.' 'Nothing about copulation?' 'Nothing at all.
The thirteenth instalment of the Aubrey and Maturin chronicles is as delightful and compelling as the rest of this matchless series.
Reading an Aubrey/Maturin novel always makes me laugh, hold my breath at moments of tension, and quite forget that I’m not sailing the high seas in the early 19th century.
(hide spoiler)]To come up with that list I paged through the whole book and kept being drawn back into it - the mark of truly great writing.
It ends with a cliff-hanger (which some don't) and for some reason it's easier to handle then when a book just stops apparently arbitrarily.So, thirteen books in and it's getting harder to find non-repetitive things for Aubrey and Maturin to do with each volume, yet O'Brian pulls it off again!
The best, most delightful part of this volume is an almost complete aside from the main plot, however: Maturin indulges his interest in natural history by visiting a volcanic island where Orangutans abound.Back to the cliff-hanger.
His particular friend, Dr.Stephen Maturin, is along to spy on the French's forces in Malaysia.
(view spoiler)[The diplomatic mission goes well, not least because Maturin disgraces and then kills the leading French diplomats.
Maturin stays in a brothel and watches the French.
All of these minor little background moments come together in one stunning scene, when Maturin turns up on the anatomist's doorstop with an unnamed body with a precise bullet hole, and they dispassionately dissect it.
(hide spoiler)]O'Brian has a talent for the long game, giving little clues and hints that slowly build to a crescendo.
After more than a year's hiatus from my favorite maritime series, all I can sigh is: I love these stories. Patrick O'Brian may well be the most brilliant man to ever put pen to page. This installment easily bears up to its predecessors, with its subtle humor, nuanced characters, and balanced pacing. Can't wait for the next one!
The one with orangutans, catamites, dissections, a shipwreck, and the arrogant envoy...
Listened to Patrick Tull's masterful reading. Of course. :-)By book 13 you're already heavily invested in the ongoing adventures of captain Jack Aubrey and doctor Stephen Maturin. So I will just say that I treat these as leisurely serial novels, much like the radio shows of old, where the adventures keep the story rolling along and we enjoy the characters' developing lives as much as the main action. This was enjoyable and kept me rolling along to anticipate a leisurely listen to book 14.
Another solid entry in the Aubrey-Maturin saga, The Thirteen-Gun Salute finds our seagoing protagonists heading to the South China Sea on a diplomatic mission.
Highlights include Dr. Maturin's sojourn at a Buddhist temple in an isolated volcanic crater -- a naturalist's paradise -- and a frightening encounter with a violent typhoon.
All the usual history, politics, humor, espionage, naval sociology and fascinating character studies are here too.I read this partly in print and partly in the audiobook read by Simon Vance.
Though I have a general preference for the work of Patrick Tull, Vance does a good job here with character and narrative.
Dull, dull, dull. I could not get into this story with the endless expeditions by Stephen to see all manner of flora and fauna and I heard as much as I would like to know about orangutans. I know this was his cover, but this stuff went on and on and on to the point where my mind wandered, waiting for something else to happen.The only interesting part was where Jack got his commission back in the Royal Navy and this could have been told in a short story, which perhaps this story should have been. Disappointed.
I am reporting this book read, but I am re-listening to selected chapters that I enjoyed.I was disappointed that they changed ships again from The Surprise to The Diane, but gratified that Jack has been re-instated. The spy stuff with Stephen and his old French advisories was a little confusing, and the new Envoy is not a nice guy. The ending caught me off guard after the big blow, but I know that everything will carry on until my turn for the next volume comes off of hold at my library.
The saga continues, but it's starting to drag. Ended with a real cliffhanger.cover art: It's so refreshing to have cover art depicting an identifiable scene from the text. This series is much the exception in that most of it's cover art does.
Dr Stephen Maturin is described as "an intellectual counterpoint to Jack's more physical presence."[2] After a nod to the story, they conclude that "the ultimate appeal of the Aubrey/Maturin adventures lies in O'Brian's delicious old-fashioned prose, the wonderfully complex sentences that capture the feel of the sea and the culture of the great warships, all the while sketching with apparent accuracy and truth the early 19th-century world."[2]Publishers Weekly notes that Aubrey is once again a captain in the Royal Navy and "even a rotten-borough M.P."[4] Maturin's stay in the valley "where he blissfully encounters and studies a variety of tame exotic beasts" is called "charming".[4] They mention that the author's writing style has been compared to that of Jane Austen, and praise the wit of guests at "the dinners (in country house, London, ship's mess, sultan's palace, Buddhist monastery)".[4]Thomas Flanagan, writing in the New York Times Books was pleased to have discovered the series of novels by virtue of an essay by Richard Snow, "who roundly and with polemical extravagance declared them to be "the best historical novels ever written." Not quite, perhaps." adding that delayed appreciation of the series of novels "is not exclusively American.
‘It would be an absurd exaggeration to speak of a feeling of escape or holiday; but underlying the regret there was a sense of a return to a simpler world, one in which the roof, or what passed for it, was not expected to be universally waterproof, where chimneys and the poor-rate amounted to little, where a settled hierarchy, independent of moral or intellectual merit, did away if not with difference of opinion then at least with its more candid expression, a world in which there were no morning calls and in which servants could not give notice; a world devoid of most comforts, complex enough in all conscience, and not without its dangers, yet one whose complexity was as who should say more direct, less infinitely various; and above all a world that they were used to.’The quote from the opening pages of The Thirteen Gun Salute by Patrick O'Brian seems to sum up quite neatly what I’ve often felt about these books: that feeling of slipping back into a world where complexity is 'more direct, less infinitely various’.
The thirteen-gun salute is the number of volleys given in honor of an ambassador, an envoy, and that title here presages a tale of a diplomatic mission that Captain Jack Aubrey and Dr. Stephen Maturin are assigned on behalf of England.But first, we find Aubrey still sailing the Surprise as in the last book, The Letter of Marque.
He is given command of the Diane, formerly a French vessel, which he captured in the last book, and he is sent to accompany his friend Maturin on a diplomatic mission that will take them to the South China Sea. There, Maturin is to aid and support the king's envoy in securing a treaty with the Malay court at Pulo Prabang, a treaty that will prevent links between Bonaparte and the Malay princes that would put English merchant shipping at risk.
Thirteen guns is the right, proper salute for a royal ambassador, and Captain Aubrey has been commissioned to deliver the King’s representative from London safely around the world to a strategic Pacific post in the early nineteenth century British Empire.The highlight of the book is the pilgrimage Dr. Steven Maturin, ship's surgeon, takes to an ancient Hindu temple nestled within a crater in the center of the island.
"The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky proclaims the work of His hands" (Psalm 19:1).WHO SHOULD READ THIS BOOKIf you love the smell of salt in the air, the sound of seagulls, the swell of an ever undulating ocean, then this series of books is for you.SUGGESTIONSIf you are new to the Aubrey/Maturin world, begin with the first novel, Master and Commander.
I've enjoyed the whole Aubrey-Maturin series very much -- I'm up to book 16 now -- but I've singled this one out as a 'favourite'.
What makes it a favourite is the chapter where Stephen, accompanied by an orang-utan, climbs a mountain to visit an ancient Buddhist temple.
Later, when Fox indicates a complete lack of interest in Stephen's adventures among the orang-utans, nothing could more thoroughly condemn the man.Understanding that readers will not be bothered by a lengthy break from the plot, but will enjoy the holiday from it as much as his character, must be evidence of a writer of great skill and experience.
Along with Maturin and a whole unknown crew, they head around Africa and to the South China Sea. At the same time Captain Pullings takes the Surprise around South America and the two ships plan eventually to meet.
After successfully brokering a treaty with a Malay sultan (due in large part to Maturin's efforts), taking revenge on Leadwood and Wray (a long time coming and involving spleens and dissection), out maneuvering the French in their efforts to make the same treaty, and a side trip for Maturin to an Eden paradise of flora and fauna in a crater at a Hindu temple, the Diane heads back to Java.
XDThat said, (view spoiler)[I was happy to have the traitorous Wray and Ledward dealt with at last: dealt with in O'Brian's typical summary, abrupt and unsentimental fashion.
I was equally happy to see the back of the not-so Fantastic Mr Fox, whom I disliked from the start and positively hated by the time he set out on a little boat bound for destruction, unlamented by everyone but perhaps his mother.
Which perhaps reflects the author's view, while the wide sweep of Europe's history progresses, men are left to deal with far smaller local problems.
O'Brian creates characters flawed enough to be human, without becoming base.
Not the best of men, but rising to better as circumstance demands.And while the author leaves the great sweep of history largely aside, the detailed history of these men's lives, the sacrifices, the conditions of life at sea are truly fascinating.
I don't come to these books for tightly coiled plots and twists.
I come to bask in the most fully realized world I've ever encountered in book form.
These books don't so much have endings as they do arbitrary stopping points, but I don't consider this a hindrance.
The ending of each one should be thought of more as a pause in the action, to be picked up again whenever the reader feels the need to dip back into this universe.
And the more of these I read, the more I feel like coming back.
I usually don’t read series that contain more than 5-7 books.
Most authors should really stick to trilogies.
You know how it is – predictability sets in, each book follows the same basic template, and the series loses its charm.
Patrick O’Brian’s Aubrey-Maturin series is the first series I’ve found that defies this rule.But I’m probably preaching to the choir.
If you’ve gotten this far in the series, you know why you should read this book.
I continue to be amazed at how Patrick O’Brian manages to keep each book new and fresh, while at the same time maintaining their timeless charm.
Another splendid continuation of the Jack Aubrey and Steve Maturin adventure.
Aubrey and Maturin are on a new ship and must meet with the HMS Surprise after the fulfilment of a diplomatic mission in the South China Sea on Java - a Dutch-influenced area of the world.
On the competing French side are two British traitors, one of whom, is the arch-cad and card cheat from Treason's Harbour story and others.
Edward Ledward, once of the Treasury and Andrew Wray, (The arch-cad)Some diabolical climax concerning the devious dealings of these traitors comes to an almighty and surprising climax.
We are left on the edge of a new adventure and wanting more.
Glad the continuing (and slow) storyline with Wray and Ledward was finally brought to a close.
I was getting a bit tired of them lurking about.
Though (view spoiler)[having Stephen actually dissect them post-mortem (hide spoiler)] was worth the slog.This lacked the excitement of previous books, especially the at-sea bits.
A sign that I might not have been fully engaged by one of the Aubrey volumes is that after it's over, I go to Wiki to read the plot summary and fill in the gaps where my mind was obviously wandering.
And this book warranted a visit to Wiki.
Great like the whole series. Well written. A joy to read slowly. This novel seems very transitory to winding up a couple loose ends hanging the past couple books and going into some new directions. I love the Maturin side of this novel with Van Buren and his explorations of Buddhist paradise...lovely.
As always, I loved this next "chapter" in the continuing story of Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin. What stuck me the must in this re-reading of this volume is both how warm Maturin can be--when he visits the Buddhist temple ground--and how utterly cold and merciless he can be when he finally catches up with two old enemies.
No weak links with this volume. There is less naval action in this story, but that only gives O'Brian more opportunity for brilliant character development as he takes Aubrey and Maturin to the South China Sea. Again, a superb novel.
Another excellent historical novel although I suspect that for those looking for rip-roaring naval action there would be insufficient interest. As others have commented the portion of the book relating Maturin's time at the temple was the most satisfying.
Audiobook version. Do not cross Stephen Maturin or his friends. He deals with then with shocking coldness. Terrific.
