https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9595.Slapstick_or_Lonesome_No_More_
I'm letting him buy down the debt (to me) by reading 6 Vonnegut novels before the end of the year.
Hi ho.So, I've decided to read a lot of the Vonnegut novels he's going to be reading before the end of the year too.
Why don't you take a flying fuck at the mooooooooooooon?” often and with literary abandon.As far as the stars, the book itself probably only warrants a Vonnegut 3-star (except for the fact that the autobiographical introduction is so good, I'm tossing in another star because, well, I can).
Vonnegut's most farcical, most absurd, but also one of the more scathing satires.
Here Vonnegut takes on universalism, and totalitarianism, but on a grander scale than he allowed in Harrison Bergeron; but also this is more surreal.
His genius, though, as seen in other novels, is to creatively intersperse pockets of stark realism to accentuate and to highlight the circus like theme.
Vonnegut also uses elements of grotesque to further illustrate his none too subtle rebuke of egalitarianism.
This is thought provoking, though, in terms of his over the top humanism and decidedly liberal politics.
A good read, and a must read for a Vonnegut fan.
is post-apocalyptic burlesque… Everything in the novel is turned inside out and even the apocalypse is ludicrously absurd.The old protagonist writes a preposterous story of his long life but, as usual, hiding behind the façade of fun Kurt Vonnegut explores the serious problems existing in the modern society.Yes, and I write now with a palsied hand and an aching head, for I drank much too much at my birthday party last night.Vera Chipmunk-5 Zappa arrived encrusted with diamonds, borne through the ailanthus forest in a sedan chair, accompanied by an entourage of fourteen slaves.
But her most intoxicating gifts were a thousand candles she and her slaves had made in a colonial candle mold.
To me.Usually Vonnegut's works seem to read with some underlying sense that no matter how bizarre everything seems, no matter how depressing or how inspiring a situation seems, there's always a punchline, and that punchline brings you back to reality, forcing the reader to realize that we're all human.
The introduction gives you an immediate idea of why Vonnegut steps out of his comfort zone on this one.If the introduction reads true, and there's no guarantee that reality and honesty aren't being blurred in any of Vonnegut's novels, then he wrote this following the death of his sister.
Hmmm deformed, incestuous fraternal twins become geniuses when they touch their heads together. One is the last President of the United States of America. Ridiculous, yes? No. This is Vonnegut! I liked this one. I like all Vonnegut actually. I'm very biased, don't listen to me. Hi ho.
I read 'Cat's Cradle' when I was in high school and taking a lot of ecstasy, so I hated everything except the Chemical Brothers.
Since I hated Cat's Cradle then, I've assumed that I didn't like Mr Vonnegut for the last, what, dozen years?
I mean, I don't think he's perfect- I'd remembered his kind of smug, eccentric uncle persona being at the fore kind of like Tom Robbins tends to do.
(Which, by the way, is a big part of why I find Tom Robbins so unreadable- I get it, you're smart, you're charming, you're just like every other straight boy who thinks he's hot shit.
Any other Sunflower-13's out there?
It’s a little more plot-driven than most of Vonnegut’s works, but it still explores the same basic concepts you’ll find in most of his oeuvre - in fact - diving deeper and more direct into one concept in particular that doesn’t *quite* find its way all of his novels: love.
Specifically, familial love, and the meaning and purpose of family.
Utilizing copious dystopian imagery and weaving chaotically (but still coherently) between two narratives, there is not a dull moment in this book, even if most of it boils down to a mediation of human connection.
This might be one of my favorite Vonnegut books now.
Note that I am giving this book a low rating as compared to Vonnegut's other books, and is not necessarily reflective of my opinion of it as a fine work of fiction.Really, when compared to the similarly-themed  Cat's Cradle  and  The Sirens of Titan , this one just doesn't hold up as well. It boasts a classic Vonnegatian comedic end-of-the-world scenario, but Slapstick just doesn't quite live up to the standard set by his previous novels, and achieved again by later ones. I guess I can't really

Nonetheless, to whatever extent this is true of Vonnegut is a person, I felt that his worldview was most informed by loneliness… loneliness of a very special kind, a sort of intellectual isolation which, it seems, could only be broken by his sister.
With his sister dead of cancer in her forties, the novel (and the autobiographical introduction) convey the sense that her death left Vonnegut very much alone.
I don’t know if I’m ready for the full extent of his ability to manipulate me.In other words, I’m in love.
Another example of what makes Vonnegut so great. "Slapstick" combines sarcasm, humor, an absurd plot, and a critique of society and every part of it works. This is no where near his best book and yet it's still leaps and bounds over most other books.
"I wish that people who are conventionally supposed to love each other would say to each other, when they fight, “Please—a little less love, and a little more common decency." (3)Vonnegut famously, while self-assessing his work, gave Slapstick a D.
Writers are notoriously poor at evaluating their own work, however, and Vonnegut's assessment of Slapstick is no exception.
Sure, the novel is not as well-thought-out as some of his others, but it is funny and sad and clever in good portions – and hey, after all, it is supposed to be Slapstick.
Un libro flojo a lo que es la obra de Vonnegut. Sus ideas humanitarias siempre claras, pero es el humor el que falla, encima abordado con insistencia fútil resultando en un libro aburrido y pesado. Se pasa de absurdo.
Ըստ Կուռտի, այս գիրքը մասամբ ինքնակենսագրական է, իր ու քույրիկի հարաբերությունների մասին։ Այդքան էլ 
I liked his idea that everyone will have to change their middle name so they are related to someone else.
He points out that political leaders in the USA are actually families of leaders that have been around for decades, much like our current leaders.
If everyone had their names changed so that they are now "relatives" of powerful people, they would actually have a chance to become powerful too.
Like all Vonnegut novels I've read, I enjoyed every minute of it.
"History is merely a list of surprises.
It can only prepare us to be surprised again." KV
Most specifically, a world---ours.The narrator happens to be the President of the United States---the LAST one, as a matter of fact.Wilbur Daffodil-11 Swain and his sister, Eliza, have got to be two of the most sympathetic characters KV ever created.
Some of Vonnegut's most ingenious devices & characters are in here---Green Death, the Hooligan (a thingie to communicate with those in the Afterlife), the Turkey Farm, tri-something-Deportamil, the super-feelgood drug Swain gets hooked on, the Raspberry family, Vera's teenaged Tourette's-afflicted son, the King of Michigan.Yes, KV was firing on all cylinders here.
If you have to read just one Vonnegut book, I'd say go for SLAPSTICK.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE has the reputation, but in my humble opinion, SLAPSTICK is the better book."LONESOME NO MORE!"
The problem I have with most Vonnegut books is that they feel like they've been churned out of a random plot generator machine.
Other times they just flop around uselessly, sort of cute but really kind of gross, like a beagle without any legs.
The latter would be Slapstick.The repetition of hi-ho, which I suppose Vonnegut's idea of being cutesy, drove me crazy by the end of the book.
I've seen this sort of writerly tic in some of his other books, and I've never understood why he did it.
Actual rating: 4.5*This shall be one of my shortest reviews, because all that needs to be said of this book, can be derived from the next six words*AbsurdProfoundEndlessly comicalHi Ho
A long way from his best but still rather magical. A trip along the absurd which shows Vonnegut up to his knees in stars!
At times meandering and tangential, Slapstick is probably Vonnegut’s most bombastic work of satire, a hard slap in the face of the rich and famous, while always keeping it ridiculous, half-dark, and supremely clever.
I was prompted to re-read this Vonnegut novel by a non-fiction work that I read recently.
If I remember correctly, KV claimed in another work that Alice was actually a much better writer than he was, but did not feel compelled to do something with that talent, as he did.I know what it is like to lose family and how that can affect one’s life.
So I believe I have some idea how crippling it must have felt to Vonnegut to lose his sister and how he could end up feeling like a much duller Bobby Brown without her.
4,5/5*. Αστείο, σαρκαστικό, γλυκόπικρο, φανταστικό. Αυτά :-)
One of the things that I've always loved about Vonnegut is how simply he expresses complex ideas.
Here, he expands on the ideas of artificial families first imagined in his concepts of karass and duprass...
Somehow it makes sense, the whole idea behind the book's subtitle, "Lonesome No More." Give someone something to belong to, and they're happier.
What I do question, however, is Swain's repetitive tic of "Hi Ho." It's a bit of a pointless thread, especially considering how it echoes Vonnegut's earlier "So it goes" device.
"So it goes" makes a bit of a point.
Slapstick, or Lonesome No More, is a self indulgent book by Kurt Vonnegut in his later years.
He writes the book as if he's speaking to you, as a friend, in conversation.
This style is great for the many Vonnegut fans, it conveys immediacy, friendliness and humour.
The story flows along, the writing is never clunky or hard to understand.
You know Kurt Vonnegut has the events well in hand, and isn't just making it up as he goes along.
But the structure is casual, conversational, like a fireside story telling.
The main element for me in Kurt Vonneguts writing is his humanity.
Vonnegut is always a bit strange, isn't he?
I picked this book up at a hostel swap library and I read it in an afternoon.
It has a bit of the sci-fi quality that he apparently says he doesn't write anymore, but nevertheless, it's there.
The book was written in the late 70s, but some of the cultural predictions are, if not accurate, hilarious to read today.
Experimentation with social theory is just one subject this book touches upon.
Very interesting for a summer read, particularly if you can just pick it up at the library.
I was amazed with Vonnegut's tour through an apocalyptic world; his mixture of Gothic, science-fiction and comedy.
That said, I stepped toward this reading tentatively, with visions of the horrible Jerry Lewis movie from the 1980s in my head.
It was a rental: "Hey!
This movie's got Jerry Lewis!" - a man whose cinematic ouevre is unparalleled if you give it a chance, you're 10 and the videocassette market is pretty slim pickings (it was, in the 80s).So I feared this: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GS9IJf...But what I got was so rewarding and spoke so empathically to the universal condition of loneliness that I was genuinely moved and wanted to give Vonnegut a big hug.Bonus track: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4p2Hlp...Bonus track No. 2: Batman, Nazi collaborator?: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UHD_53...
"Why don't you take a flying fuck at a rolling doughnut? Why don't you take a flying fuck at the mooooooooooooon?" I don't really know what to say about this book. It's totally absurd. Also smart, witty, and completely entertaining. Not my favorite KV, but a worthy read.
is a rather strange sort of book, about a United States in a future when gravity becomes wildly variable, where millions have died of the Albanian Flu or The Green Death, and in which the Chinese have miniaturized themselves to microbe size and developed a means of space travel that did not involve space ships.
The author's alter ego is one Dr. Wilbur Daffodil-11 Swain, who was elected to the Presidency of what remained of the United States with his motto "Lonesome No More!" He used a computer to assign new family middle names to everyone based on flowers, plants, animals, minerals, and so on so that people would no longer feel lonely as they could form new families.
She found this quite upsetting and sad, and worrisome as she was concerned about her own future (aging) since she felt that her son was adopting the ways of "Americans".
I wish I had her address because I'd send her this book.Vonnegut examined the idea that Americans were missing out on family and were often creating false families to fill that void—"Lonesome No More!"; he also somewhat comically examined East-West, where the Chinese are so far advanced (and have made themselves tiny!) and have way more things figured out than Westerners can even comprehend.
STRANGEST OF THE STRANGEThis is the first book by Vonnegut that I have read .
One can be odd ,different even eccentric without stereotyping them as weird  Back to the book .
I felt his book was both happy even humorous at times .
As I read more I felt sadness , deep sorrow .
Vonnegut highly imaginative and intelligent book.
My mom was a AVID reader .
I laughed out loud when I stumbled across a few romance novels .HEHE!
That's my mom for sure .
I know she left those on purpose just to make me laugh .
