https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24662015-c-cile-is-dead
tenete conto che dei libri, perfino dei gialli, dimentico rapidamente la trama e addirittura lil finale, per trattenere solo le atmosfere, la descrizione di uno stato d'animo o di un luogo, qualche frase. Il resto finisce nel dimenticatoio.In base a questo criterio (che non è neanche un criterio, è solo che mi viene da fare così), vi dico che questo, dei Maigret che ho letto e probabilmente anche degli altri, è il migliore.
A nervous spinster, Cécile Pardon, has been telling Chief Inspector Maigret a ridiculous tale: that someone has been breaking into the apartment she shared with her invalid aunt and rearranging items and furniture.
The entire Police Judiciare attribute Cécile’s reports to her having a crush on Maigret or too much time on her lonely hands.
She turns up strangled in a broom closet at the police station.
And her Aunt Juliet Boynet turns up strangled in her apartment.Why would someone kill this harmless spinster?
killed Cécile and her aunt, the cold, tight-fisted, avaricious owner of their apartment building, takes longer.

***1/2.Cecile is a young (28-years old) spinster, who lives with an ill woman that she cares for in return for room and board.
She has been coming to police headquarters several times now, over the past several months, asking to see Inspector Maigret.
He agrees to see her, but her complaints are always the same: she wakes up on many mornings and finds that things have been moved around in the apartment.
One morning she turns up at headquarters again and is sitting there waiting to see Maigret.
When he and his men go to the apartment, they find that the old woman has been killed, too.
Lately, she had been a frequent visitor to police headquarters, vainly trying to get Maigret's attention about some "irregularities" she had noticed at the apartment of her old and miserly aunt with whom she lives and has dutifully catered to her needs for years.
Something terrible happened last night.' - Cécile Pardon"Maigret, now in reflection mode, thinks back several months ago to a meeting he had at police headquarters with Mlle.
If it had been, she would have mentioned it; she's so suspicious of everyone."His curiosity fully aroused, Maigret makes his way to the house in the Bourg-la-Reine neighborhood where Cécile Pardon had lived with her aunt for many years.
D. James, and John Banville clearly has a lot more going for him than mere whodunits.In Cécile is Dead, Simenon shows us an Inspector Maigret who is frantically trying to overcome a minor act of negligence which costs the life of a young woman, who is killed within feet of his office at the Police Judiciare.
Throughout, he is like a force of nature:One day, when Madame Maigret was looking pensively at her husband, she had suddenly sighed, with almost comical candour, "I do wonder why you haven't been slapped in the face more often in your life."It was deeply heartfelt.
An even more claustrophobic Maigret than usual and filled with very unpleasant or strange people.
The death of an old miser, who secretly has fronted the mob’s investment in brothels, followed soon thereafter by her neice, a peculiar woman who has been pestering Maigret that something strange is going on in the apartment.
The two murders are linked but not connected and Maigret solves them with his usual application of analytical psychology.
Another peculiarity is the appearance of an American criminologist who shadows Maigret and serves as an audience for the inspector’s thinking.
I can't imagine why I used to like Maigret.
Here is a man who can't have a decent conversation with his wife of many years because his mind is always on his work.
He is a self-confessed prude and an unacknowledged misogynist.
He happens to be good at one thing: putting himself into the minds of the people he's investigating and figuring out how they would act based on their characters.
That makes for an interesting mystery, in which he solves two interrelated murders (view spoiler)[ but not the two you'd think!
(hide spoiler)].
I liked them for Simenon's evocative style and for the well-drawn characters, but this book was the first one I've read where I thought: "This is a bang-up mystery story." I couldn't wait to get to the ending, too.The plot starts off very simply.
Then, one day when an annoyed Maigret sees her in the waiting room and decides to ignore her, she disappears from the police station, and it turns out her aunt has been murdered.To say more would be to give away a delicious plot, one that quickly spirals into all kinds of twists that you won't see coming.

after listening to all those radio plays this is very much what I expected. There were as many ellipses as straight-up periods at the ends of sentences, and Maigret mopes around a lot of the time with his hands in his pockets, arguing with suspects like a cranky old grandpa.Not a particularly fascinating plotline in this one. The ending, however, both surprised me and seemed realistic. I suppose I will have to go read another Maigret book to see how I really feel about the series.It was a very fast read.
Simenon nos tiene acostumbrados a que disfrutemos con la lectura de un relato policial que, además, 
A short take:After exploring the ramifications of Maigret’s retirement in the last book, Simenon dials back time and walks through one of Maigret’s earlier cases.
I found myself a bit torn: while it’s nice to re-visit the ‘old’ Maigret and his bulldog nature, I also want to see what’s next for the man as he tries to distance himself from the work he loves.
It’s funny: I did not plan on reading this yet, then found myself in need of a portable paperback for a few longish train rides.
Within a few pages, I was hooked enough to set aside the other books I’m reading.
Good old Simenon.
Het gaat zeker niet te ver om te zeggen dat Simenon en zijn personage Maigret een genre op zichzelf heeft opgeleverd. Ook in deze aflevering toont Simenon zich weer in een meester in het met een paar pennenstreken neerzetten van een sfeer, die weliswaar van een andere tijd is (denk aan de elementaire rol van de conciërge van het appartementengebouw waar de dode oude vrijster wordt gevonden) maar geenszins verouderd. Voeg daarbij een ingenieus plot met volslagen geloofwaardig einde en je hebt enkele uren gegarandeerd leesplezier.
The genius of Simenon is twofold (at least) in my opinion. He is a master of capturing the atmosphere of a place. It's as if he's sending you sepia-toned images directly to you. Secondly, he manages to portray all of the flaws, tribulations and imperfections of the characters in his novels to a degree that is unprecedented in my experience. He does both with an economy of words that is remarkable. He Maigret novels normally run from 175 to 200 pages and he manages to deliver a masterful tale everytime.
Este librito me encanto!!!! genial Maigret tratando de averiguar quien mato a Cecile Pardon...Peculiar el metodo del comisario Maigret...Y Cecile vivia en una casa que es como mi cuarto: se escucha todo!
Mysig, men inte den bästa.
2 murders.2 killers.1, an innocent and the other a vicious lawyer.And one murder is in the police station!
Maigret didn't take Cecile's concerns seriously and felt guilty when she died, so is determined to find her killer.
3.5/5

Slight and a little predictable but also charming with a nice feel for Paris
Like many French police procedural films, Simenon feels no need to focus on the blood and gore details: suggest it, let the intelligent public get it, then move on.I don't quite understand the need to include the redheaded American character, Spencer Oates, who does nothing in the narrative beyond trailing behind Maigret and drinking milk (!) in bistros.
In other novels Maigret nearly prides himself on knowing only a few English words, so it's a good thing "Monsieur Spencer" can speak French.My one quibble with the mystery itself is about acoustics.
"Maigret and the Spinster" (also known as Cécile is Dead") is indeed a pretty good crime novel, and now I understand why I considered Georges Simenon a first-class writer, when reading his works for the first time, about 40 - 50 years ago.
Extremely sad.When Chief Superintendent Maigret comes to his office, Cécile, an unattractive spinster, is waiting for him again - she has been frequently coming to complain about strange events, like furniture being moved at night, that happen in the apartment she shares with her aunt.
The plot is certainly intriguing: a woman named Cécile comes to the police office every day to voice to Maigret her ominous certainty that someone is entering her elderly aunt's apartment on various nights and moving furniture but never taking anything from the apartment.
However, after a few hours she disappears and Maigret becomes concerned; and then it is discovered that Cécile's aunt has been murdered in her bed, and clearly Cécile had come to the office with some urgent discovery to share.
Then, only hours later, Cécile's body is discovered in a broom closet at the police station.
In both books a woman is disregarded when she reports her flat has been entered and searched, and when she is later murdered Maigret is mortified, and determined to catch the culprit.
As often, it appears, in Maigret stories, the depiction of character and milieu is masterly, and makes the first two thirds of the book highly enjoyable to read.
As often in detective stories the solution is made by means of incongruous character development, and the final third of this book is somewhat contrived, and most unlikely.
So many Maigret stories, like so many Sherlock Holmes ones, could be so much better.
Commissaire Maigret is used to seeing Cecile in his waiting room, with another tale of how during the night mysterious strangers rearrange the furniture in the tasteless flat she shares with her aunt, Juliette.
Having checked out the complaint once and verified that no one enters the building surreptitiously at night, he dismisses Cecile as a hysterical spinster.
But one day, after having ignored Cecile again, he hears that the aunt has been found strangled.
This is a typical Maigret, with some of his characteristic ingredients : the crushing weight of poverty, the hypocrisy of the bourgeoisie, the contrast between sexually adventurous and repressed woman (Cecile being the latter and her teenage neighbor being the former), and of course, plenty of good food and drink.
This was my first introduction to the works of the Belgian author Georges Simenon and it just happens to be my intro into what is probably his best known character, Commissaire Maigret, the dedicted, grumpy and often drinking French inspector.
Of somewhat interest, while Simenon was a self-proclaimed sex addict who "needed sex at least 3 times a day", and was willing to pay for it, Inspector Maigret remains faithful to his wife throughout all of the 75 novels and 28 short stories in which he is featured.
The book was entertaining enough so that I am planning on reading further of the adventures of Maigret.
Penguin is publishing new translation of the Maigret novels.
I have read three or four of these new translations.
Cécile Pardon, who claimed that someone was coming into her house at night and rearranging the furniture.
Maigret goes to her house in Bourg-la-Reine, and discovers that her aunt, Mme Juliette Boynet, the owner of the building, with whom Cécile had lived, has been strangled.
Later Cécile's body is found in a closet in the court house adjacent to the police station, also strangled, and her purse missing.
Try the new Penguin translations of Georges Simenon if you are looking for something fresh and interesting to read.
This was a wonderful Maigret.
When we hand him over to the lawyers,that’s the end of him.
He’s broken with his life as an ordinary man, and almost always it’s a final break.
He’s a criminal, that’s all, and the lawyers treat him as such.’I would have given it five stars but for the conclusion which I felt was a bit perfunctory.
Also in the previous Maigret he had been retired but I didn’t see any explanation as to why he was now back in the police force.
