https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20707959-gray-mountain
I enjoyed writing this book very much in spite of knowing how it would end.
Samantha (Grisham's new heroine) was a complete bore. She was a fence sitter in every aspect of her personal life-- friendships, career, love and family. Even if she were a young impetuous lawyer who grew and matured during the book, that would be fine, but she wasn't.I think her personality took any fun out of any suspense that was being created. She didn't really care, so I didn't care. I did enjoy reading about coal mining, flat top mining and black lung disease.
I think John Grisham forgot to write a story. The entire book was simply a way to preach about the injustice of strip mining and poor old down home mountainfolk in Appalachia. Interesting stuff. Worthy of investigation. Boring presentation. The whole book felt sketchy - nothing had any depth to it: shallow characters, quickly resolved legal issues, shady bad guys, annoying protagonist. The only true observation: working in Big Law can be mind-numbingly exhausting and cutthroat. Skip this one.
The book starts fine with “heroine” Samantha Kofer being furloughed in New York – but when she relocates to Virginia to work for a legal aid clinic the story is at turns silly, boring and contrived, but definitely not exciting.
I don’t understand the book description promoting Samantha Kofer as “a new hero” – at least not in any legal/thriller/mystery genres because this book isn’t any of those things.
Being a longtime Grisham fan, I was not ready to give up and blamed my dislike of the book solely on the horrible choice of the narrator.
I purchased the print version and I am sad to say that even though the narration was easily one of the top five worst I have ever encountered, the book was a total disappointment.
I really disliked her and could have cared less about what she thought or what happened to her.
The best character in the book was Donavan and he was killed early in the story.
Better to have killed her and based the story on him.
Disappointing...didn't read like Grisham. Characters, dialogue, plot, all were not up to even the worst Grisham novel. Seemed like someone else wrote this, or he just phoned it in. Hope the next one gets him back on track.
Box actually gets the country, understands the conflicts which arise from mankind's need to exploit the natural world.I feel a bit guilty rubbishing a book this extent, and if it was by some first-time, unknown author I would just say nothing and move on.
And yes, I know I could just shun all big new releases, that there's plenty of great work out there still to be read.
But maybe we ought to talk a little more about Big Publishing.Every author has his not-so-great books, the ones that didn't quite work out, and readers understand that.
I grew up in the area this book is about and saw what he is talking about first hand.
He also shows how absentee owners are raping the land to get and sell coal for the biggest profits for them but at the expense of the health of the people and environment of the region.
So sad that many of the people need the coal jobs to live but to do that they are being forced to destroy their own health and their environment--neither of which will ever recover.
Great book
I guess Grisham has decided to follow the lead of most best selling authors today and write a book that will ensure him high praise from the wacko left wing media.
He certainly didn't write the book to tell a good story that would pull in his readers and keep them hooked for 400 pages.
If you want to read boring page after boring page about the coal industry then this is the book for you.
There is no story here just an author wanting to seem like he really, really cares about those poor, poor people in Appalachia that those big bad coal companies take advantage.
I don't know if I can come up with the words to describe how much I disliked this book.
I think the premise of the story gave us the idea this would be similar to "The Pelican Brief," but in reality it was just a jumble of unrealistic characters and evil employees of large coal companies.
Do yourself a favor and re-read "The Pelican Brief" and throw this drivel into a fire somewhere.
Then you won't be contributing to the profits of big coal and maybe Grisham can leave this whole part of the country behind.
Heading to Brady, Virginia Samantha never expected to find the tough cases and the people that she did.I’m a huge fan of legal thrillers and don’t read them often enough and being a long time fan of Grisham’s work I thought I would grab one of his books and immerse myself into some legal excitement.
Gray Mountain however seemed to lack that exciting spark that I was searching for when picking this one up.The book has all the basics of a Grisham novel that one would expect with a determined and gritty young lawyer and an interesting setting filled with legal potential.
Well, it is Grisham, and I adore his style and plots, and as his Serbian translator and editor for years, I must be honnest and say this is not his usual masterpiece... But he is only human after all... :) But worth reading for sure! :)
John Grisham has written several fine novels but unfortunately this is not one of them. If you are interested in reading this author take a look at his earlier books and give this one a miss.
I'm disappointed in this book.
The first half is mostly about the evils of coal mining.
The action picks up in the second half, but when I got to the end, I said "That's it?" No bad guys got their comeuppance.I didn't really like any of the characters.
There were various kinds of lawyers: rich corporate lawyers, high power lawyers, legal aid do-gooders, corrupt lawyers, disbarred lawyers, government lawyers.
Even the "good" guys did illegal things, and there were no police to be seen.This book basically boils down to what kind of lawyer did Samantha want to be.
A very predictable and unsatisfying ending.
One of Grisham's weakest books, in my opinion. I was interested in the female lawyer as the main protagonist and the focus on coal mining and its human toll. However, I was at first convinced that there must be a secret female co-writer, as much of the dialogue and romantic situations read like a YA novel. Then, I thought maybe Grisham is just so talented he can summon the voice of a shallow young woman! Either way I was disappointed and will probably not follow any upcoming sequels featuring Samantha Kofer.
If you had no opinion on coal mining, strip mining, or mountaintop removal before, or if you are in favor of it all because it means jobs and cheap fuel for America, John Grisham will surely turn you around to his opinion, or die trying.
This tale of rich vs poor, and big business vs the common man went on a bit too long IMO.
The narrator on the audiobook was OK but she sounded really young and gave every character, male or female, the exact same voice.
I did a little happy dance when I finished this book.
I was so happy that I had finished this piece of drivel that I was jumping for joy.
John Grisham has always been a mediocre writer but a good storyteller.
He was neither in this book.
It's a shame because the issues dealt with in the book are important.
Sometime we might elected a politician who actually cares about these important issues.
I would never ever recommend this book to anyone.
Go find something good to read and avoid this drivel like the plague.
John Grishsam is a great story teller and Gray Mountain is among his best! Grisham tells a story of a NEW YORK lawyer that ends up in Appalachia as an intern to a legal aid non-profit. In kept me hooked from start to finish!
When I was about 75% through the book, I realized that if the main character, Samantha, died in a fiery plane crash at that point, leaving one of the other female attorneys to rise up and take on the mantle of hero, I wouldn't have felt any emotions.
Somehow, most of the characters in this book were flat.
The two brothers who were love interests (one potential, one actual) weren't compelling.
It's too bad, because there was so much potential here.
Although I have long enjoyed John Grisham's novels, his last couple of books have felt like he's bored with writing.
Gray MountainJohn Grisham has done it again!
This was an amazing novel.
I can easily say that I think this is the best novel he has written in a very long time and it may be the best novel he has ever written.
I would love to see him write a sequel to Gray Mountain.
John Grisham is another one of the first authors that I started reading as a teenager and as the years have gone by and I have gotten older his novels have just gotten better and better.
Don't pass up on reading this you will definitely be missing out on a great read.
Once again John Grisham educates us about a shocking and compelling subject matter: coal mining and the companies who so blatantly disregard both human life and nature.
While I enjoyed the book I thought it fell flat in the suspense factor and character development.
It is told from the perspective of Samantha who is touted as John Grisham's new hero in the book description.
She never fully committed to any one or anything which I believe is why this novel fell flat of Grisham's usual powerful stories.
This certainly was no Pelican Brief and Samantha is no Darby Shaw, which I believe was Grisham's last strong female character.
John Grisham returns with an "issue-driven" legal thriller that is sure to rekindle the debate about Mountain Top Removal, especially in Appalachia. He weaves this politically/economically/environmentally loaded matter into the thrilling story of a young attorney—his first female protagonist in some time—who loses her soul-crushing corporate job only to encounter the law head-on in rural Appalachia, where she finally learns what it means to be a lawyer. A wonderful and riveting read, old-school Grisham at his best.
She has the option of keeping her health-care if she signs up to pro-bono work, the only available option legal-aid near Gray Mountain.Then the story started to get a bit too preach.
by a bit too preachy I mean almost 50% of the book was spent information dumping all the problems with the coal mining industry.
Unfortunately after slogging through the preaching it was hard to connect to the characters.It turns out the story hinged more on Samantha's decisions and whether she wanted to pursue the more lucrative possibilities of practices law or stick with Gray Mountain.
Sloppy workWho was this editor? At any point, did he or she look at John Grisham and tell him how terrible this was? The plot wanders about, and at 75% in, I still didn't know in what general direction the book was going in. The main character is unlikeable, and not intentionally so but most importantly, it just isn't well written. I don't know if I've just grown up as a reader or JG has gotten lazy with time.
About the first third of the book, I liked the characters, and enjoyed the drama. The story line quickly became tedious with a narcissistic protagonist and childish figures who play cloak and dagger roles. It reminded me of the old silent movies where the music portrays the emotions along with exaggerated facial/hand gestures.The book was too long and had poor pace.
John Grisham has been my guilty pleasure candy go-to writer for ages, so of course I had pre-ordered Gray Mountain before he made his inexcuseable, unforgiveable defense of "-old white men in prison who’ve never harmed anybody, would never touch a child.
But they got online one night and started surfing around, probably had too much to drink or whatever, and pushed the wrong buttons, went too far and got into child porn.” You would think a lawyer would understand that if there were no market for child pornography there would be no child pornography; that this is not a victimless crime, that creepy old men who like to look at child pornography do INDEED HARM SOMEONE - children.
So on this alone I am done with John Grisham.But I had already paid for the book .
Empieza bastante bien, tiene un trasfondo medioambiental y de denuncia muy interesante, y además la protagonista es una mujer, lo que supone un interesante cambio en los habituales protagonistas masculinos de Grisham.
Le ofrecen en un puesto en una consultoría para gente sin recursos allá en los Apalaches, … y allí descubre un mundo que cambiará radicalmente su filosofía de vida.Como ya he dicho, podría haber sido una gran novela, pues tiene potencial, pero la fragilidad de Samantha en todos los aspectos me ha dejado bastante frío.
However, when the recession hits in '08, Samantha finds herself furloughed and in order to keep her health insurance, and to potentially get her old job back, must intern at a rural legal aid clinic in Brady, Virginia.
We, the reader, learn about the atrocities of Big Coal and strip mining, including Black Lung Disease, which the book goes into in great detail (and which personally, makes me want to become a lawyer or social worker, as it's all awful).
Again, I think I might have liked Samantha and her story a bit more if it wasn't Grisham, as I might have expected a bit less.
I almost quit reading when I was about 40% of the way through, as that is a good portion of the book to be in, yet bored with it.
But there was something that kept me reading.
I did like how Samantha changed over the course of the book.
I wasn't always happy with who Samantha surrounded herself with, mostly because it seemed like their morals were at odds with hers.
I feel like it left off in the middle of the story, that there is more to come, but am happy with the final choice that Samantha made.
Samantha finds herself drawn to the fight, and to the people, as she gets personally involved with assisting the team in a legal capacity, as they fight for their rights against the powerful and evil Big Coal business.
In the process, she learns more about herself, and finds her purpose in life, without the frills of the big city.GRAY MOUNTAIN  is much more than a legal thriller, as offers a human interest side and dynamics with the victims, the families, the community, the beauty of the area, the poverty, and the lives of the attorneys and families fighting to protect them.Wow, was excited to get back to Grisham!
