https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278679.Window_on_the_Square
I have not been a great fan of Phyllis Whitney's novels that I have read to date...recently I started and tossed aside 3 books of hers, and others that I did get through were just pretty ho hum, but I'm sure glad I didn't give up on her.
I absolutely loved this book.
What a fantastic story start this was turning out to be!Coming back to the plot, it is just before Melinda makes her way up to the nursery that an agreement is struck between her and Brandon that it would be best if Jeremy was under the impression that Melinda is joining the household in the role of dressmaker, designing frocks for Miss Selina.
Unable to continue her mother's business as a seamstress because she lacks her skills in dressmaking, Megan is suddenly offered a job (and a fine salary) by Mr. Reid to look after his 9-year-old son-in-law Jeremey, whom he describes as a troubled and unbalanced boy.
Against her better judgement, Megan moves in with the Reids and finds herself facing not only the unstable boy but his sick mother, her frightening husband and a jealous and creepy housekeeper.
I felt so sorry for this little boy who seemed to only inspire fear and disgust in his mother, father-in-law and the staff of the house, and who was clearly just longing for someone to hug him.
I ordinarily love a good Gothic novel , but this is simply sad and depressing . Not sure if I even want to pick it back up....it's not eerie , it's not suspenseful, it's just sad.
رواية نافذة على الميدان للمؤلف فليس ا. أوتينيرواية شيقة جدا...مليئة بالحوادث المثيرة التيتشد الأحساس وتؤثر في المشاعر فيها حب...حقد,وفيهاصراع وقتل وعنف مما يجعل القارىء في قراءة مستمرة وذلك لغموضها وحبكتها الرائعة.
These are historical romances, the kind in which the heroine only kisses her true love twice, and there is slight handholding and brief dancing, things like that. The reason that I like these books is that they are also murder mysteries, with delightfully Victorian-tinged twists and turns. Yeah.
3 1/2
Set in the urban streets of New York City, Window on the Square is an evocative gothic novel and a definite classic full of imagination.
I read this book after looking for ones similar to Nine Coaches Waiting, by Mary Stewart.23 year old Megan Kincaid is trying to move on after the different deaths of her family, by keeping her late-mother's dressmaking business alive, though Megan is no amazing seamstress herself.
For that reason, I rated this book 2.75 stars ;) It was an enjoyable read, but I liked Nine Coaches Waiting more.
This was one of the first 'adult' books I'd ever read, one of my mothers favorites.
I love the story, even though it's not my usual fare.
I've read this story again and again over the years, wearing out the paperback until it is in pieces and held together with a rubber band.
I upgraded to the hardcover version so I can keep on re-reading this book - it stands up very well over time.If you like a 'dark' (kind of gothic) cozy, I think you'll enjoy reading this oldie but goodie.
I adored this book, absolutely devoured it, word for word. I automatically fell in love with Jeremy's character, without him this book may have been too boring to continue, but no, this was one of the most amazing books I've ever laid my eyes upon. The cover of mine is a bit "trudgy" but getting past that I became engrossed in the novel.
This was one of my favorite Phyllis A Whitney books.
This is one the first books I've ever read by Phillis A. Whitney, and one of the most memorable ones. I would highly recommend this!
Megan Kincaid, all alone after the deaths of her mother and younger brother in a tragic accident, is unsure of how she will make a living.
She accepts a position as care taker for a troubled boy, in the home of the wealthy Reid family in late nineteenth-century New York City.
The house and its occupants hold many secrets, including murder, and Megan must unravel all in order to help the little boy she comes to love.There is nothing quite so good as a Phyllis A.
Whitney book.
It reminded me to several books: The King of the Castle; Mistress of Mellyn and The Shivering Sands...Megan is a young orphan who comes to this mansion to take care of Jeremy, a boy who has a terrible past.
Megan in in danger few times (she is not the real target), but the setting is dark and there are moments where Jeremy behaves so strangely it made me doubt his mental state.I did not rate it higher for these reasons:- Brandon: while I love when the master of the house falls for the proper governess (Megan is not a governess, but something similar), I did not fall for him.
Every time Megan and Brandon discuss about Jeremy, they refer to him as "the boy".
A morte de Dwight havia gerado muitas especulações na época, especialmente por ter sido causada por um tiro acidental desferido por seu filho de sete anos, Jeremy.Ao chegar na casa dos Reid, a moça fica surpresa ao ser entrevistada por Brandon Reid ao invés de sua esposa.
Quando a criada peste tenta interferir, prejudicando o menino, Megan se mostra firme, afastando a mulher e assumindo por completo os cuidados em relação a ele.Em meio a tudo isso, a moça fica se questionando o que realmente aconteceu entre Jeremy e seu pai.
I've lately been reading some gothic romances from the 1970s and I've been pleasantly surprised by how much I enjoyed them. Maybe it's because they are pretty much variations on Jane Eyre. This one, about a dressmaker who very quickly becomes a governess to a violent young boy, had me reading non-stop for hours. The last third is a bit crammed together, with plot twists on top of plot twists in a way that strains credibility. But on the whole, I enjoyed it. A good bit of fluff.
The mystery and suspense in this book left me on the edge of my seat. Whitney makes the characters come alive and shine on the pages. Megan Kincaid is truly a heroine to look up to; she has a strong sense of duty and an endearing stubbornness that helps her through her ordeals with Jeremy. This is a fast read that will keep you guessing until the very end.
A young woman is hired to rehabilitate a boy who has been accused of killing his own father. Of course, like all gothics, everything is not what it appears to be...A traditional gothic romance with lots of suspense and creepy personalities. I enjoyed it immensely -- a nice break from reality. Whitney almost always satisfies.
I adored this book, absolutely devoured it, word for word. I automatically fell in love with Jeremy's character, without him this book may have been too boring to continue, but no, this was one of the most amazing books I've ever laid my eyes upon. The cover of mine is a bit "trudgy" but getting past that I became engrossed in the novel.
It's a mystery romance that kept me guessing to the end. Even though this is my second read, first one was about 20 years ago (I feel old!) I appropriated it from my mother's shelf, I should probably give it back.
I used to devour her books as fast as I could find them (at the library, pre-Amazon and in a town without a great book store) and this is one I remember loving. Classic gothic suspense with a hero who is cold and brooding but never cruel or contemptuous.
Hated that the romance was with the married man, even though his marriage had never been consumated. But the storyline was FANTASTIC! She portrays the children very well and it was truly scarey and mysterious. I LOVED this book!
I recall reading this back in the late 1970s! And I still remember how compelling it was!
Second time around. Enjoyed just as much this time around.
See Quicksilver Pool.
Very good reading. . . keeps you going the whole time. Mystery and a little bit of romance. I couldn't put it down. Don't read the last few pages first or it will spoil everything!
Revelaciones
My very first favorite author - I have all her books -- been reading these for years
Paperback version of the Hardcover I've already reviewed.
