https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99755.Oliver_s_Story
Oliver, whose true love Jenny died in Love Story, goes through the motions here. But since True Love can only come once in one's life and one must be permanently scarred when it's lost, he will be miserable forever. The end.
Some people will disagree with me, but I thought there never should have been a sequel to LOVE STORY.
OLIVER'S STORY in my opinion does a disservice to the overly romantic Love Story.
But when Oliver does meet a woman, and does have a torrid love affair, which I felt was mainly filler for a weak story line, ghosts of his past continuously haunt him.
And then: (view spoiler)[the whole love piece falls apart because of the woman's use of cheap labor in China for her multi-billion dollar enterprise (hide spoiler)].Weak, I say, weak.
Read this if you are curious enough to know what happened to Oliver after the conclusion of LOVE STORY.
Contrary to popular opinion here, I loved this book.This was yet another tribute to Oliver's and Jenni's epic Love story, is what I felt.
In a twisted way, I liked the fact that Oliver wasn't able to move on.
I mean, I do know he's supposed to, that's what's healthy for his present day relationship with Marcie, no point being miserable and pining for a dead girl, blah-all kinds of logic-blah..
But it felt good to know that some love stories are forever, if only on paper!
Sometimes I ask myself what I would be if Jenny were alive.And then I answer:I would also be alive To me, this line was the nucleus of Oliver's story.
I wasn't sure what to expect, just that Oliver's still here, grieving.I was totally into Jenny and Oliver's love story that I couldn't let it go.
With his new life with Marcie, I thought he could live again; fall in love once more; be with someone else and have a happy and satisfying family.
But then again, I couldn't think of anyone else who could make Oliver live again the way only Jenny did.Every time I think of this book, I can't help but wish Love Story and Oliver's Story didn't end like that.
Let me start by saying I did like Love Story.
So you really can’t hold this against me.I hated this book.
With Oliver’s Story, the problem was this : it was plain terrible.I’m reviewing this book a week after reading it in the hope that some of the anger would have subsided.
I can’t say that it’s worked, but at least I’m not employing every swear word I know.The Negatives:1.
I’ve never cared about Oliver much, and I doubt I’d ever be able to read Love Story again because of this.The Positives None.
At least I’m one book closer to my year’s goal.
As Cher said: "Do you believe in life after love?" Oliver believes in existing, but he's not living anymore without Jenny. Will he be able to love again? Will he be able to overcome the grieve of losing his true love?
Dan gue masih belum lupa gimana rasanya bertanya-tanya apakah hati yang sudah pernah hancur berkeping-keping ini bisa direkatkan lagi serpihannya satu persatu?
Tidak selalu ada akhir yang bahagia untuk semua orang.Mungkin bagi Ollie, bagaimana mungkin dia bisa mendapatkan lagi yang lebih baik, saat dia sebenarnya sudah pernah mendapatkan yang terbaik, dan bagian terbaik itu direnggut paksa dari hidupnya?Dan itulah pesan yang tersampaikan dari kisah ini.We were once loved and so lucky, weren't we, Ollie?================Update 19 Oktober 2012================Ngga biasanya gue bikin review ada update-annya kayak gini hahahaha..Tapi tadi baru kepikiran aja di perjalanan menuju kantor, tentang salah satu tokoh yang sebenarnya memegang peranan penting di buku ini: Dr. London.Yang gue rasakan sih sebenernya setiap orang itu pasti punya kebutuhan untuk curhat.
If you hear bells, get your ears checked.”- Erich Segal, Love Story.Yes Love Story ended off with Jenny's death leaving Oliver miserable and lonely for the rest of his life.
Then comes Jenny's dad, who thinks Oliver is miserable and lonely and advises him to date women.
Then suddenly Oliver takes out his anger on Marcie, the reason being the use of cheap labor, that's all, the end of their cute romantic relationship!
So it justifies his love for Jenny.But this after-life of Oliver's story was way too moving and emotional.
Još jedan od onih bespotrebnih nastavaka... Kad sam pročitala Ljubavnu priču (Love Story) uopće me nije vuklo da dalje saznam što je bilo s Oliverom. Postojali su jednom Oliver i Jenny i ona je otišla... Meni je to bilo dovoljno.
Baca buku ini verasa muda banget gw. Berhubung ngga ngerti kek gimana maksud kejadian kejadian internasional yang mengiringi ceritanya..
If it wasn't for this last line-"sometimes I ask myself what I would be if Jenny were alive. And I answer: I would be alive."I wasn't planning to rate this book!I think I should not have read this one, because it honestly destroyed the image I had of Oliver. Was thinking of leaving it off midway, but good I did struggle through because the last line did earn the book it's undeserved 2*!!I may sound harsh, but it was just not to my liking!Tip to future readers: Refrain from perusing this and be content with"Love Story"!
I had absolutely loved Love Story ( ya,ya I know , the tear jerking romantic story ) I knew this book couldn’t be as phenomenal as Love Story.
As a reader I just couldn’t identify with Oliver’s decisions.
He was too much in love with his first wife Jenny , granted .But he doesn’t want to take a step forward in to a new life.
Oliver just couldn’t handle the fact that Marcie has different prioroties in life.
I would have left the book within a few pages , had it not been for the curiosity of knowing what happens to Oliver eventually.
I inevitably had to read the sequel to Love Story after I wiped up the last snot bubble from reading the first book.
It's two years later and Oliver has met someone else.
And she's another WASP this time.
But this isn't a callow attempt to write a belated fairy tale ending for Oliver, and I admire Segal for making that choice.
Why do I feel like my streaming video plans for this evening were just decided?30 seconds later.....Available from Amazon for $2.99, after I corrected my iPad search results.
Damnit Siri, I said "Oliver's Story," not "Oliver's Storage." ("Now serving Bridge Creek!")
Just because I'd love Jenny and Oliver so much from the first book, and I believed they've had this one great true love, that, reading a journey to love again for Oliver after that, feels like too much of a betrayal to Jenny.
And so now, after having read the book, here I am, just contemplating everything.
So I started reading, and it was like walking on Oliver's shoes.
The epic love Jenny and Oliver had, I knew for certain, and then at the end it didn't disappoint.
I wonder why Segal wrote a sequel to Love Story since the first book was just perfect by itself.
Having said that comparing this with Love Story would not be right since this book is not a love story.
While it is romantic in a way, I do not think it is about love.
While Oliver's Story was annoying to a great extent, I kind of understood his journey of trying to overcome his grief and loss and finding acceptance.
PS: I DID NOT see that end coming!
Still trying to make up my end if I liked the book or not.
This was an excellent sequel to Love Story. Oliver is now on his own & must find meaning to his life without his great love, Jenny. It's well done, especially his relationship with his father. It especially meant a lot to me, having raised a couple of boys myself. It's amazing how my intelligence & worth have varied in their eyes as they've grown.
The characters in the sequel to "love story" are deeper, darker and more interesting. Also because it's mostly a book about loneliness, it won't make you feel so good in the end. For all those reasons and others, I liked it. oh, and it took two days to read - that's also an advantage in comparison to LS which took only about 2 hours.
Finally after all these years I got around to reading this sappy sweet story from the other point of view. Okay, so a part of me is sappy and I loved the original and even enjoyed this one as well.
Kedua: Bagaimana caraku menemukan Marcie Nash?Saya lebih suka buku kedua ini, emosinya kerasa sekali dan nggak buru-buru seperti Love Story, alurnya masih cepat, hubungan yang terjalin antara Oliver-Marcie pun terjalin nggak seburu-buru Oliver-Jenny.
Saya mengganggap Marcie 'jelmaannya' Jenny karena menurut saya karakter mereka berdua mirip, wanita yang kuat dan hampir sama juga degan karakter Ollie yang sinis.Melihat Ollie menemukan orang baru jujur saja membuat saya sakit, saya mrebes mili baca ini, tidak ingin Jenny digantikan, memang sangat tidak adil bagi Ollie padahal dia orang yang paling terluka.
Don't, don't and don't even try to compare this one with the first one (Love Story).Let me start with a praise for Erich Segal.
I repeat once again, if you want to really appreciate this part of the story, dont expect any thing.
You won't be liking this story if you compare with the first one.The story revolves around the after-life of Oliver (the lead character), after losing his wife, Jenny, with whom he was deeply in love with.
He wants to get out of that darkness called loneliness.This is his story to get rid of that loneliness and get back his life..The moving and beautiful sequel to "Love Story" will capture your herat as only Erich Segal can.
Tapi setelah pemanasan pada 2 bab pertama, aku bisa membiasakan diri lagi.Aku benar-benar terharu ketika Oliver datang menemui Dr. London, dia merasa tidak setia pada Jenny, karena dia hampir menyukai wanita lain.It was sad, but it was also so sweet of him.Ini bagian yang paling aku sukai:("Dengar, aku tidak membutuhkan ahli dekorasi.
Satu-satunya tamu yang pernah mengunjungi kami hanyalah kecoak.
Kami bisa mencium aroma hidangan malam semua tetangga.
"Tapi kami bahagia dan aku tak pernah betul-betul melihat kekumuhan itu...."Aku suka dengan keakraban antara Oliver dan Phil.Rasanya menyentuh melihat Oliver menjadi lebih dewasa di sini.
Its true that, not all true love ends in,"They live happily ever after" sequence.Even in fairy tales
Was expecting something different from “Oliver’s Story” by Erich Segal.As far as the book went, I was expecting that the main character would re-marry…but instead it let me believe he was all alone — for 5 years or maybe more.
And maybe some gal (whom he had no idea where it would go with her).Didn’t cry with book, however…but definitely it was different in - a good way I suppose - that it wasn’t a ‘happy’ cliche story.Well I don’t know if this sums it, but I guess it does, it’s my opinion for fucks sake.
But was I happy to learn that Oliver's story was out.
No, not really cause sometimes you don't want to move on after reading all about Jenny.
Was I expecting a happy ending.
No. But trust me you will need to find out the rest cause I never expected this.
I love the characters that made appearances.
Jenny's dad, Oliver's parents and also old friends and new.But I love Oliver's farewell passage that made me teary...Sometimes I ask myself what I would be if Jenny were alive.And I answer:I would be alive.
i read it because i wanted to know what happened to Oliver after Jenny left.
but a part of me doesn't want him to get involved with someone else and forget Jenny.
Love Story was a sad one with a lot of happy, memorable moments.
i was still stuck with Jenny and Oliver even when i started reading book # 2.
and was i glad that she was a bitch after all.
in the end, i was glad they didn't end up together.
and though i was sad for Oliver ending up alone, i was also happy that he didn't love someone else.
By the time you finnish the last page and most significantly the last line, you will have grown a hatred for Oliver and Erich Segal that I am sure of because I did too.
But I also guarantee that by the time you finnish the last page of this book you will have forgotten everything.when you read the book, from the very beginning there is nothing to prove the absence of jenny cavilleri, or nothing rather emphasised.
[This is oliver barrett IV writing his dairy]"Sometimes i ask myself what i would be if jenny were alive.
And then i answer:I would also be alive."
I don't know why people did not like this. I think that the author did a fantastic job of making the reader feel what the hero of the story feels. I think it was honest and real. I was left feeling that Oliver was in a much better place at the end of the story than at the beginning and that maybe, one day, Oliver will be able to find someone else.
The majority of sequels never live up to the expectations of a great first story and this was no exception. I read Oliver's Story shortly after it originally came out but recently re-read it to see if it brought back any good memories. It didn't.
lagi gak mood review. cuma bisa bilang lebih suka sekuel dari buku pertamanya. lebih bikin penasaran dan jadi suka sama oliver yang dulu pas buku pertama kelihatan sangat menjengkelkan. mungkin karena kehilangan jenny membuat dia semakin dewasa dan berpikiran luas.
I was thrilled to see that there was a continuation to Love Story. Oliver fell for a woman of his stature, to find that no one could be like Jenny. I love that he told her off and walked away from her at the end of the book.
