https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/891883.Beat_the_Dealer
Thorp was the scientist/math geek behind finding the best and most winning strategy for blackjack.
He also backed up his theories by playing in the casinos and winning.Considering the book is almost 50 years old, its information still holds.
Thorp focuses mostly on single deck blackjack and card counting as a strategy to gain a positive edge against the casino.
Today, his strategies on blackjack make it the best game a gambler can play in casino.
The book explains the math behind the decisions presented on the card and why play is altered in certain situations.The book explains some card counting methods.
If you play blackjack, you must read this book.
The author, E.O. Thorp invented the 'basic system' that every good blackjack player memorizes.
Thorp invented and perfected card counting and the odds.
Thorp actually was so effective, he changed the way casinos deal and manage blackjack.This is the original book on blackjack.
The book settings are dated (would love to see an updated version) but the guidelines of beating blackjack are here.
Thorp was the one who established such rules as "stand when dealer shows a 6"; "double-down on a soft 18 when dealer shows a face card"; "never split 4s" etc.
When this book was published in the mid-sixties, I'm sure it created quite a storm. I don't think it's applicable now for one simple reason: the book's system assumes there is only one deck in play. Unless you're ultra-rich, I doubt you'll find a single-deck table anywhere. It was an interesting artifact, but I think I will need to read a more modern book to deal with the multi-deck shoe games that are extant now.
cb6cf62f-e4d7-4355-b089-94c1e1bbc1db
gud
An interesting explanation of the basics of card counting and blackjack and a well told story of the authors personal experiences in the world of gambling and how casinos make sure the players are always at a disadvantage
Still lost some money on gambling haha. Definitely helped me to understand about casino and how to play black jack.
I've pretty much finished reading the book a while ago, but there's still reference type study with it. I can consider it finished and get it off the current read list now..
An absolute classic, that even prompted legal battles between players and casinos.
A must read for any blackjack player. This book was the center of a lot of drama over counting cards and what is to be considered cheating the game or casino. Like I said, a must read for all blackjack players.
I had to read it for a Math class in college -- we were analyzing Black Jack.
Very outdated these days, but a good ref. point fo beginners
Not an easy read. Very technical and you will need to use sets of cards to experiment with the theory.
Fascinating 40 years later.
