https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/120552.The_Stories_of_Ray_Bradbury
Any story involving technology has elements of crime, dissolution of common sense and void of basic human emotions - be it building a robotic body double or finding a machine that makes people happy.
The End of the Beginning - 3/5[6] The Coffin: One of the best short stories I've come across in recent years.
Including humans.[76]Night call, collect: An intelligent way to address the paradox of contacting one's future self and dealing with the aftermath, RB narrates a stellar story of man on Mars contacted by his younger self who resolutely makes different choices than his future self, thus meeting another future self of his.
Some of the science fiction tales are still enjoyable while others haven't held up as well over time.
The Venus stories, on the other hand, are a little too out to left field: this planet is presented as a giant hyperactive Amazonian rainforest.
But many of the stories which take place down here on the home planet are just as interesting.
There is a preoccupation with machines which in later science fiction would be called androids, and these are used to explore what it is exactly that makes us human.
I'm not going to sit here and say I read this whole thing, because I didn't.
Regardless, there were a few really good one's in here that actually made me feel concerned for the characters.
And I mean they were so very boring - I almost felt like I was reading something dreadful for school.
So yes, those particular stories are to blame for the non-whole 4 stars, because they were truly quite terrible.Overall, this is definitely something I will pick up from time to time, because why not, and I recommend it to those who enjoy quick reads!
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Walter Mitty: "The Stories of Ray Bradbury" by Ray Bradbury(Original Review, 1980-11-16)There are two ways to look at the work of Ray Bradbury.
One is to remember how it was: to return to the old friends of youth, when these stories were beautiful, perceptive and spoke of important things.
The other is to look at them as they are now: elegant, but a little shallow; obvious; sentimentalized.
To do the latter is to deny the child still within us.
Not to do it is to deny the child's long struggle to become an adult.
Cento racconti che non è possibile riassumere ed elencare come fosse una lista della spesa.Taglio, incollo e sistemo qui una parte dei numerosi appunti che ho preso in quasi tre mesi di lettura.Ovviamente non mi sono piaciuti tutti allo stesso modo (alcuni per niente) ma l’emozione di molti tra loro e le affermazioni che Bradbury ha fatto nell’introduzione e nell’intervista riportata accendono senza dubbio, per me, le★★★★★ Quattro parole Fantascienza, vampiri, fantastico, infanzia: ecco le quattro parole chiave che aprono questo scrigno contenente cento racconti dell’americano Ray Bradbury, classe 1920 e noto perlopiù per l’ormai classico Fahrenheit 451 .Un’autoantologia e, pertanto, una scelta fatta dall’autore stesso delle produzioni da lui ritenute più significative rispetto ai quattro temi citati.
Quando Sim nasce i suoi genitori hanno solo qualche ora di tempo (” «Un’ora è metà della vita.») e poi moriranno.C’è una speranza, però: una navicella che si trova dall’altra parte del pianeta.
It's been a long time since I remember reading the work of a writer who writes like no other person.
So many writers are "like" Jane Austen, Mark Twain, Charles Dickens, Joyce Carol Oates, etc, and we read them because we've run out of the real thing.
A boy doesn't come home on time, and his mother spends about ten minutes wondering where he is, but this time brings her face to face with the great chasm of fear in the unknown that we all face:“But this is more than death.
Buio totale.Ma non è poi così importante; l’importante è che, dopo tanti anni, io abbia ancora nuovi tuoi racconti da scoprire.Di racconti del buon Ray in questo librone ce ne sono cento; molti li conoscevo, tanti altri no.
Non posso dire che mi siano piaciuti tutti allo stesso modo: molti sono belli, alcuni sono capolavori, parecchi sono geniali… qualcuno è un po’ stucchevole, qualcuno non mi è piaciuto per nulla.
Se non già per gratitudine e affetto e motivi puramente soggettivi, lo faccio anche per la sconfinata fantasia di quest’uomo, per la sua capacità di spaziare nelle emozioni, dal poetico all’inquietante.
I hadn't read any of his stories or books when I thought that.
I read it and I loved it and it immediately found a place on my list of favourite books.
Then I thought that Bradbury wrote science fiction and stories about small-town America.
The Irish stories show beautiful aspects of Irish culture and how people took pleasure and got happiness from the small things when their country was going through a tough time.
The Anthem Sprinters - A beautiful depiction of Irish culture.The One Who Waits - A very scary science fiction story.
A beautiful story about parents and children, family and love.
His use of descriptive language and non-conventional character development and plot are what makes him to be one of the best science fiction writers of all time.The Stories of Ray Bradbury captures the very essence of what makes him so brilliant.
The book features a methodical mix of both long and short stories that give the reader great choice.
He, more than any other author I’ve ever read, leaves the reader completely satisfied with the visual and sensory aspects of the story while at the same time leaving us begging for more of his quirky, deliciously flawed characters.
Bradbury can say more in a short story than most authors do in an entire novel.
This is a masterful collection. The epitome of the classic. It deserves to be in every library, to be cherished forever. The Lake is one of the saddest stories i have ever read and it came back to haunt me in my dreams. I can clearly see the influence that Bradbury has on Neil Gaiman. Highly recommended!
(My seventh grader made a video book report for class, and viewing it is as far as I've gotten.) These stories are SO GOOD.
Many times, I caught my breath at a turn of phrase, a heart-wrenchingly familiar characterization, a sentence that makes you go "ooh," and then you stop and read it over again.
So, yes, in this book, people land on Mars, but it's what they do once they get to Mars that makes the story matter to us.
I read the story.
Men were drifting into the oblivion of space as it began.
One of the men told the captain how he had betrayed him, and now there was nothing either of them could do about it.
I was feverish as I read.
Through odd circumstances I obtained the book that once belonged to someone else.
I have read most of the 100+ stories in its covers and have never experienced fiction like Bradbury's.
Bradbury's prose-like stories never fall away from their theories into pieces.
Though absolute in their fiction, they remain attatched to the reality of their individual circumstances.
I have a list of people who should never have been allowed to die, and now Ray Bradbury joins Leonard Bernstein, Victor Borge, and Jim Henson.I bought this book in 1983, and I bought a second copy to give to my best friend.
Bradbury made magic when he wrote.
Read "The April Witch".
Read "The Picasso Summer".
If you're ever depressed and think life not worth living, "The Wonderful Ice Cream Suit" will pull you all the way to joy.Did you ever fall in love with a teacher?
"The Leave-taking" Or its delightful, whimsical opposite, "There Was an Old Woman"Here is horror.
"Gotcha!", "The Coffin", "The Skeleton", "The Screaming Woman", "Boys!
There may have been other Bradbury anthologies since this huge (100 stories!!!) 1980 collection, but I sincerely doubt any could be half as fine as this one. This is the ultimate collection of Bradbury's short fiction including nearly every important tale from this seminal American writer. It also includes a terrific introduction by the author titled "Drunk, and in Charge of a Bicycle".
Probably my favorite single book of all time...this specific edition. No filler or lesser works in sight. Pure gold.
And even taking three months to read it was too short a time.
Bradbury shorts need to be read slowly and savoured.
I binged a bit here.There are Martian stories in this collection, there are Mexican stories, Irish stories, stories about the supernatural Family and the joys of childhood.
Some stories are better than others (I really didn't like Interval in Sunlight very much, for example) but taken as a whole, there's no denying the power of Bradbury's work.Learn from my example, though, and don't read more than a couple of stories a week, for maximum effect.
I have not yet finished this book, but feel that some commentary is needed on it.I have been reading
Man, I love Ray Bradbury. I really, really do. But I couldn't get through a lot of the stories in this collection. Too many choices, maybe? It's a honkin big book. Maybe these were mostly B sides? I didn't recognize a good many of them. Not in the right mood, perhaps? Entirely possible. 2 stars. But I don't blame Bradbury. I blame myself.
Ray Bradbury's stories are always timeless and brilliant. I've never read anything like them in my entire life.
Ler esse livro em qualquer outro momento da minha vida não teria sido a mesma experiência.Dentre os contos destaco "O Lixeiro", "A Autêntica Múmia Egípcia Feita em Casa" e a "A Cidade Inteira Dorme".
Like all short story collections, this needs to be enjoyed slowly.
And like all such collections, some stories will be more interesting than others, depending on the reader.
So in a collection such as this one - with one hundred different stories - everyone is sure to find something to like.In my case, there were twenty-nine stories that I really liked, a handful that I disliked and couldn't wait to finish, with the rest scattered somewhere in-between 'Really Liked' and 'Ugh'.I must say that I'm happy to be finally finished with this book, and I probably will not be reading all 100 stories again, but rather just re-read the ones that really grabbed me the first time around.
Simply the quintessential Bradbury collection of short stories. Some are better than others, but by and large all are good, with some being so fabulous that you remember them always. A must for anyone who loves to read.
holy wow.
Bradbury’s imagination is insane.
not even the types of stories, but also the themes, the way he presents his ideas, just everything.
It’s crazy to think that this book is 800+ pages long.
so I’ve only read 10 stories from this collection, although I will definitely read more in the future.
I have read: The Veldt, Kaleidoscope, The Coffin, The Night, The Lake, The Rocket Man, The Last Night of the World, No Particular Night or Morning, Marionettes, inc., All Summer in a Day. Bradbury is a crazy genius.
I will definitely read more of his work in the future.
Kandidat att ta med till en öde ö (eller öde planet i det här fallet). Som i alla antologier är inte alla nummer lika bra, men Bradbury har en mycket hög lägstanivå. Ren fröjd att läsa.
When I picked up this book, the same one with that terrible 80's coverart, I'm sitting in a library, leafing my way through the enormous (and ridiculous) science fiction section.
I could write whole pages on my favorite stories, such as "The Lake" (one I felt a deep connection with odd enough), "Homecoming", "The Fog Horn", "The Cistern", "The Sound of Summer Running" (which turned out to be a chapter in his other wonderful book Dandelion Wine, which is fantastic), etc.
Before I end this, let me leave you with the opening paragraph from my favorite short story "Farwell Summer": "Farewell summer.
I think that Bradbury’s stories are destined to appeal to a certain type of young reader, one with poetic sensibilities, a feeling of melancholy and a hidden interest in the macabre.
Is it any surprise I had a few more nightmares than average during those three weeks?Sometimes you can trace Bradbury’s inspiration back to its source like an arrow.
When you’re tempted to feel unimpressed by Bradbury’s work, all you have to do is think of the many, many imitators who have never come close to achieving his artistry or impact.
Mr. Bradbury is my favorite author and always has been. I recommend reading his short story collections individually but this compilation is my all-time favorite. It contains the story, “The October Game” which seems to be becoming harder and harder to find. Overall great selection and phenomenal anytime reading.
I know I read it first in summer because I remember exactly how it felt to go from the humidity and heat outside into the almost too cool air of my town library.
I remember finding this on the shelves and looking up specifically "I Sing the Body Electric!" because I had seen a version on television and loved it.
This book belongs on every bookshelf in every home and library.By the way, I realize no library would be open on the fourth of July, but I know I read this in Summer, and fireworks seemed appropriate.
A couple of years ago, I was wandering through the annual book sale held by my town's library when I found this treasure.
This collection of 100 short stories from 1943 to 1980 has been a joy to read.
It's like stepping back in time, to when the library stacks were tall and hallowed.
In this collection you'll find a wide variety of stories spanning Bradbury's career.
You'd be hard pressed to find another author who best captured what it was like to be alive during his time, from the wonder of a child to the dark murderous thoughts of the wicked.
Probably the best collection of Bradbury's stories -- from the Dark Ferris (the genesis of "Something Wicked this way Comes")to his hilarious vampire stories (a dysfunctional family who just happens to be vampire -- my favorite is "Uncle Einar") to "Homecoming," "There Will Come Soft Rains," "The Fog Horn," and one of my personal favorites, "The Scythe," which explains the origins of the 'grim reaper.' I think Bradbury's short fiction, not King's, will be remembered in 100 years. Bradbury will be our generation's Poe.
