https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31316.The_Dance_of_Intimacy
Another book I read and discussed with my daughter when she was in middle school.Excellent
N E Way, I don’t dislike Intimacy, but, you might as well read Anger instead.The books are about how any relationship we have – and by relationship, I just mean interaction with people, not necessarily romantic relationship – involves a given level of anxiety.
Two homosexual men in a relationship, therefore, would both presumably have a challenge in overcoming a socialized tendency to emotionally distance, particularly if that was emphasized in their families of origin.Lerner expresses her choice to direct the books to women as an acknowledgment that it is just a reality that women are expected to manage relationships and are more likely to seek help to do so.
But when one individual envisions what a healthy relationship is, and creates and acts out that vision on their end, many times the other half is inspired to follow and complete the vision.
That is the idea behind this book, that strengthening the self will help so that self can be emotionally connected yet neither under- nor overpowering in a relationship.
Then the two become caught in their fixed positions too long, often involving a third party (friend or other family member, often a child) to help solidify and validate their polarized positions more permanently.If you want to know how to make a relationship better, not just with spouses but also family and even friends, then this is a simple and powerful how-to.
But to have any meaning or viability at all, a life plan must include intimate relationships.August 2010Read most of The Dance of Intimacy again.
The most powerful message I took from these books is when you are stuck in a pattern with another person that causes yourself anger/anxiety/frustration etc.
- Once a pattern is established, both parties perpetuate that pattern.Favorite quotes from Dance of Intimacy - "We are always navigating relationships in the direction of greater or lesser degrees of self." - "The will to change and the desire to maintain sameness coexist for good reason."
My feelings about feminism are a bit complicated and Harriet's feminist interjections and comparisons were off-topic and distracting for me.Having said that, although I suspect that many of the concepts in The Dance of Intimacy: A Woman's Guide to Courageous Acts of Change in Key Relationships were the same recycled Bowen concepts introduced to us in The Dance of Anger: A Woman's Guide to Changing the Patterns of Intimate Relationships, it certainly doesn't hurt to revisit these ideas, especially if you're interested in reinforcing your competence in Bowen theory.
I’m still making up for lost time.While the key message -- about having healthy relationships by being true to yourself -- isn’t a particularly new idea for me, I did take away many new ideas:* The impact of your “first family” relationships on all your intimate relationships: “Family connectedness, even when these relationships are anxious and difficult, is a necessary prerequisite to conducting one’s own intimate relationships free from serious symptoms over time and free from excessive anxiety and reactivity.
Watch for the triangles, which sometimes conceal the deeper issue.* The wisdom of not initiating big, dramatic changes in your relationships, but instead small incremental nudges toward more healthy functioning.* The concepts of overfunctioning and underfunctioning.
I love the section on how to do self focus.
I tend to do the whole "You do this and this.." whereas I need to focus on my self.
"I feel this.." "I feel so and so.." I also like the section on settings limits.
It really shows how people react differently to situations and how like for instance where the daughter was reacting to her alcoholic father and how it affected her..
However, when she placed her limits on him and then this caused the rest of her family to change..
this then caused her father to change himself.I really like this book.
If someone makes changes to be more self-connected and open to connection with others, that can make it easier for others to connect.A lot of the book focuses on how current problems with intimate partners can be caused by past problems in a person's "first family".
While this kind of triangle can be stabilizing, it can also freeze the original relationship into a state that can't improve.The book is a very compassionate look into how people can make changes in themselves that may result in better relationships with others.
Reading Harriet Lerner's "The Dance of Anger" was a pivotal experience for me years ago, and I've since noticed it in the homes of several women I respect deeply.
It's a wise and powerful book that opens up room for significant personal change, so I was eager to read this one when I found it last week (for a dollar!).
"The Dance of Intimacy" could easily be titled "Navigating Family Dynamics" or "What We Talk About When We Talk About Boundaries" -- even though the terms "dynamics" and "boundaries" are never used here.
We don't build stronger relationships by insisting that the other change, we must evaluate and adjust our own perceptions and behaviors to more accurately reflect our true selves, and negotiate how to honor and express that true self honestly and safely in the relationship.I have to admit, the sentence I just wrote is one that I'd have dismissed as mumbo-jumbo not too long ago, but going through this book slowly gave me the time to process and internalize these tough concepts.
I'll also mention that I had already begun this book while I was listening to Brene Brown's "Rising Strong", and was stoked when Brene referred to Harriet Lerner as a mentor of hers.
I first became interested in "family systems process" through Rich Bledsoe.
This particular book, despite a "chick-ish" title, was very helpful as an introduction to family systems, overfunctioning, underfunctioning, and triangulation.
The theory of family systems process counseling revolves around the idea that there are multigenerational patterns of dysfuction in family history.
The suggestion is that at moments of great crisis and anxiety in our past families we tend to fall into similar patterns.
Often the "problem" person in a family is falsely labeled that, and that person is simply the scapegoat and focal point for the stress and anxiety of the family triangle.
Harriet Lerner develops and shares a conceptual and practical framework regarding relationships and communication towards intimacy that really hit home.
She uses case studies to show familial interactions that impede or destroy the development of true intimacy.
Within these case studies I could view bits and pieces of inappropriate reactions and interventions I so often resorted to in dealing with my loved ones.This book was a wake up call at best as Lerner offers so many valuable ways to bring fuller personal intimacy to one's daily life if one has the courage and commitment to employ her techniques.
Outstanding book. Keeper. A woman's guide to courageous acts of change in key relationships. In the Dance of Intimacy, the bestselling author of the Dance of Anger outline the steps to take so that good relationships where intimacy is most challenged by distance, intensity, or pain and she teaches us about the specific changes we can make to achieve a more solid sense of self and more intimate connectedness with others. Combining clear advice with vivid case examples (love it) Dr. Lerner offers us the most solid, helpful book on intimate relationships that both women and men may ever encounter.
This is one of those books that I wish I haven't read! It clearly exposes the patterns and unconscious behaviours we engage in in our relationships. And once exposed I can't just keep doing the same old thing and have to change. And change is difficult, like the book keeps emphasising over and over again. Read at your own risk, recommended only for those motivated to work to make their relationships more harmonious and to maintain the illusive balance between "I" and "we".
Y'all I don't know about you, but I could listen to Harriet Lerner write about anything. Her writing, humor, and intellect all feel like a big hug. Definitely recommend this book as a light, beginning read for anyone trying to figure out how to make necessary but difficult changes in their most important relationships.
It provides a framework for understanding how adults function in close relationships, how we express anxiety through action and apparent non-action, and what steps we might take to better understand our particular set of coping behaviours and how they came to be.Most appealing is the author's holistic approach to “problems.” Often, she suggests, what we perceive as a ‘problem’ is actually a symptom or solution, a subconsciously wrought attempt at balancing energetic needs in the room.
For example, a child acting out at school or at home might be, however subconsciously, opening the floodgates to the unexpressed anxiety in a household, in the fallout of an underacknowledged family stress or otherwise.

Normally, I find 'self-help' books a struggle to read and, even if they are informative, I am usually very glad to finish them as the reading is so dry. Not so with Harriet Lerner's books. Whatever book I am reading of hers is always my favorite. The Dance of Anger is excellent in addressing overfunctioning/underfunctioning roles. This book continues to deal with influencing change by focusing on yourself but deals more with understanding triangles. I have already downloaded another Harriet Lerner book to my kindle from the library as I love all of her books.
Harriet Lerner talks about the complexities of △'s and how lack of wisdom and compassion can unbind even the most tangled of tapestries. She contemplates the subtle intricacies of relationships that lasts a lifetime. The situational examples in the book represents a facet that can be surmised in a thousand ways, each can either cause them to sever or stand the test of time.
Along with Dance of Anger, the best book for understanding how relationship problems are mutually created and perpetuated. Brilliantly written.
Author was recommended by counselor. While dated and hetero normative, still had lots of excellent core material. I may have enjoyed it because it reaffirmed a number my own conclusions.
Recommended by my therapist...
The Dance of INTIMACY : A Woman’s Guide to Courageous Acts of Change in Key Relationships By Harriet G. Lerner, PH.D 1989In this wonderful book, Dr. Learner emphasizes the importance of making a pictorial representation of the facts of a family system for at least three generations. She asserts that these “anniversaries” in our first family have significant import in understanding ourselves and the cycles we repeat in future relationships. I gave this book to my mom hoping we would make this gen
Our normal and reflexive ways of managing anxiety inevitably lead us to participate in patterns, polarities, and triangles that keep us painfully stuck.“Intimacy can happen only after we work toward a more solid self, based on a clear understanding of our part in the relationship patterns that keep us stuck.“It is always important for us to be aware of feelings.
But venting feelings, in and of itself, will not change the relationship dances that block real intimacy and get us into trouble.
But to have any meaning or viability at all, a life plan must include intimate relationships.“Because of our condition of inequality, it is easy to feel powerless and to view women as ineffective agents of change.
Contained many eye-opening morsels of wisdom. Not your typical pop-psychology garbage. The author’s explanation of overfunctioner-underfunctioner dynamics has especially stayed with me, and it really brought home to me why it’s so key to set strong boundaries with people for both of your benefit, even if initially it can feel like you’re damaging your bond instead of improving it. Would gladly recommend this book to anyone who wants deeper insight into interpersonal connections and the games we play without realising it.

Lerner discusses how we can get stuck in the helping role, and how that ends up trapping all of us.
We all know from personal experience that a relationship can become so emotionally charged that the most productive action we can take is to seek space” - page 55Her stories have definitely given me more to think about.
So often, I’m an advocate for moving away from the relationships that harm us.
Lerner invites us to remember the continuum of options we can experiment with, which may be especially helpful for those relationships we’re not quite ready to say goodbye to.A compelling read.
I thought this book was helpful, but pretty much the same as dance of anger. Didn’t learn anything new
This is the second book of Harriet Lerner’s that I have read and both proved easy to absorb, while challenging me to review long established habits. I wish she would get a professional reader for the audiobooks but otherwise they are great. I find them to be quick but insightful guides to maintaining healthy intimate relationships of all kinds.
Learner is pretty adamant that you can solve most of your problems in life if you work out the issues in your first family.
I am not a psychotherapist, but I genuinely believe that there are some toxic people that need to be cut out of a persons life for healthy forward movement.
For example, when I got to the chapter where she was helping a girl reestablish contact with someone who committed incest with her, she totally lost me.
I think the basic ways in which we handle stress that she covers in the first book were interesting and helpful.
Some of those concepts are covered here.
Thankfully the cover illustration had nothing to do with the every day tips this book offered. Lots of good points throughout.
