https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/864779.Loving
There was a lot of repeating (of the emotions that she was trying to convey) in the beginning and it got to the point where you felt like the feelings that you were supposed to be feeling were being shoved down your throat.
As the book went on it got considerably better.
I felt like you grew with the character and that the character came out into her own.
The quote at the beginning of the book from "The Velveteen Rabbit" really made this book for me.
The ending was done nicely and although I thought that the book was rushed it was a good book over all.
The is possibly the most dreadful book ever.
UGH If ever there was a book showing how weak a woman can be, Danielle Steel has accomplished it in this one.
She falls in love with him and they get married despite their age difference.
She winds up leaving him for someone closer to her age but just looking for a free pass to the US, so on and so forth.PLEASE!
Call me heartless or uncaring, but this book did not leave me feeling sorry for her at all.
Personally with all the Steel novels I've read, she's really over-rated.
The author of this book was quite populars in 80s, so the story itself is also a bit old stylish.Our heroin in this book was someone who worked like a slave for her dad, in require, she only wanted some accpetences and compliements, but all was took granted. Then, dad passed away, what remained was huge debts and a hot, rich, caring, best friend from daddy for her.
Ok not greatIt was ok! The end kind of blunt! Enjoyed other of her books a lot moreHope the next one I read is better. I think the reviews could de open what yo have to say and leave it at less than 20 words
Yes, the cover is beautiful and the writing style is easy to read, but the actual story pissed me off in so many ways.
I won't blabber about specific plot details since I don't want to spoil anyone but the characters (especially the main heroine, Bettina) were so unconvincing and there was a tone of instalove in this book.
It was also super easy to predict what was about to happen.
Anyways, I have a lot of Danielle's books on my shelf, that I'm looking forward to reading so I hope the others will be great and that this one was just an exception.
So far, I read 3 novels for Danielle Steel (Loving, Star and The Long Road Home) and I can't tell the difference between them. they all have the same plot and similar main character whose a female suffers in her life. this may refer to a weakness in the character and weakens the image of woman in general.There should be more activities for the secondary characters or at least let another character takes bigger part in the novels.
Enough already! How stupid can the main character be? She just kept jumping into one relationship after another; marry, divorce, marry, divorce, etc. Can't figure out why Danielle Steele would create such an empty-headed character; she wasn't given any intelligence at all. The book just barely earned the three-star rating. I was very disappointed; not up to snuff for a Danielle Steele story. Not a book I would recommend.
I started out loving the book. As I continued to read, I began to dislike it, then I cried over it, then I liked it again. However, by the time it was over, I don't believe this will be a book I will read again. It was an interesting book, just not exactly my style.
good lord this woman went through men like wildfire!
But how was I to know that this would be a bad way to enter the world of Danielle Steel?'Loving' is about Bettina Daniels, a 19-year-old whose father Justin Daniels is an acclaimed author who spends lavishly on parties.
The narrative tries to show Bettina as a strong character and maybe she is in a way.
But what the narrative also does is show Bettina falling in love every few pages.
Because who in the world can control that?Bettina cries, she falls, she picks herself up - but if she makes the same mistake twice, I cannot consider her strong.
Mais c’etait Jamais la situation quand tout le Monde lui trouve la fille de Justin Daniels, le fameux ecrivain.
Personellement, je vois cette bouquet de ‘maries’ ou bien ‘le prince charmant devoué a lui sauver son dernier ame’ une exagerie explicite de l’auteur.
Elle, noyé dans toutes sortes de perturbations, les a marié pour obtenir leur aide fidèle.
Ils ont toujours avoué leur propre amour au début et a elle de repondre et confirmer de ses sentiments semblés pareille a leur.
A tous les femmes dependentes: c’etait un travail pour vous mettre en conscient non un travail misogyniste.
3.5 rounded up. Loving is one of Steel's earliest works and the immaturity shows here. The characters lack depth, there is a lot of bad language and the main character flees from one man to another, from one elaborate apartment to another leaving to wonder when this gal will get a dose of reality. She does, in the form of losses but I felt like so much more could have been done with this character. I can say I read it but will not keep it.
I actually gave up in the middle of chapter 9. The book just bored me to desth, I couldn't relate to the characters at all, even as far as I'd come the love story still hadn't really started apart from one innocent kiss and lots of hints that lead to nothing. Very disappointed.
amazing... I have read Danielle Steel before, but i think this is the best one yet.a book full of intrigue, love, pain, change, winter and summer, self discovery and all that is part of life.just amazing
Such a waste of time.
This is a book that my Aunt Katherine had bought and read. It was part of a trash bag of books she gave me the last time I saw her before she passed.
maybe if u hobby kahwin, tak ada salahnya you cuba for reading book ini, hmmmm:p
I really enjoyed Loving, and I have to admit that at some scene I had to stop reading because I couldn’t see the words, because I cried, actually ugly cried.
It is a fast pace novel, a novel of stolen childhood, of lost, betrayal and hopes.Bettina Daniels is a young lady who had lived all her life taking care of her eccentric father Justin.
She acts as his secretary, her assistance and in the evening, she hosts glamour parties for him, while in the morning she goes to school.
One day after returning from school, she had the shock of her life.
Namun bagi aku, inilah kali pertama aku berkesempatan untuk mengulas novel karyanya walaupun agak banyak juga novel-novelnya telah aku baca sebelum ini.Bettina Daniels, anak kepada penulis terkenal Justin Daniels merupakan seorang gadis belasan tahun yang cantik menawan serta hidup dalam kemewahan dan kemasyhuran bapanya.
Bettina tinggal keseorang dan dalam masa yang sama dia kehidupan menjadi malap kerana terpaksa menaggung hutang bapanya yang berjuta ringgit.Ivo Stewart, penerbit yang kacak dan juga kawan rapat Justin Daniels menjadi penyelamat kepada Bettina.
Walaupun bahagia tetapi Ivo tetap ingin menceraikan Bettina dengan alasan dia tidak mahu menyekat kebebasan Bettina yang pada ketika itu bermain asmara bersama Anthony.Bettina dan Anthony pun berkahwin.
I only skimmed this story because of the summary since I couldn't believe Danielle Steel would go there, and yes, she does.(view spoiler)[This book is about a girl who can apparently only be defined if she has a man/husband in her life, and she marries frequently within a week or divorcing the last one.
Coming back home, after her affairs guy has said he wanted to marry her, her husband takes the 'I'm divorcing you' line first, and one week later she's married to affair guy.When she gets pregnant he's not happy, they're struggling to put food in their bellies, and she has to work herself into exhaustion.
Loving by Danielle SteelBettina has just lost her father, a millionaire who's given her everything she's ever wanted.The family friend, Ivol Stewart helps her sell all the houses around the world and other items and now she has to pay back his debts and there's not much left.She planned to go to a woman's shelter til she gets a job and a more permanent place to stay.Love the details of the items, very descriptive and I can't even imagine seeing never mind having these items in my hands.He started buying some furniture from her sale, for her to keep.
Acho que consegue contar uma história de amor.
Sim já se sabe que tudo vai terminar bem por mais voltas que a história dê.
Faz-me acreditar que sim, existe a possibilidade de se ser feliz, mesmo com todas as desgraças que vemos na televisão e contratempos que possamos ter na nossa vida.Não é uma das minhas autoras favoritas mas nem por isso deixa de me fazer companhia nas noites de insónia.E quanto a esta história em si.
Consegue dar a volta por cima e encontrar um grande amor.
Bettina Daniels lived a fairytale existence of glamour, endless parties, and luxury among America's top celebrities--simply because she was the beautiful daughter of famous American author Justin Daniels.
Then, in one moment of tragedy, her father was dead, and Bettina discovered the truth--he had spent every dime he'd ever earned and run up millions in debt.
A wealthy, handsome publisher of sixty-two, he offered Bettina a way out: marriage.
What lay ahead for Bettina was a life filled with shocks and surprises--and eventually a chance to become a playwright, and a writer like her father.
Having learned her lessons dearly, Bettina blossoms into her own person at last
This is a very good book about life.
How can a daughter of a famous and wealthy author survive in an adult life?
This Young lady will have to learn what the real life is, without her father.
Danielle Steel invites us to follow this woman across life, her life, to share her love stories and her evolution.
If you are not interested by love stories this book is still a book to read because Danielle Steel shows the psychologically aspect of love stories at different part of the life,when you are Young, less yound and older.
God. How can someone write a book like that?
How can a woman herself write such painful book about a woman.
This was utter garbage for me.
I hate this book.
I'll hate Danielle Steel until I read any of her decent books.
The only thing I actually liked about her book was her writing style.
The story, the characters, everything was garbage.
I just finished it because I can't leave a book half read.
I wish it had a happy ending.
I was truly hoping Ollie would be her happy ending at last.
And in my book world she has.

The end was so abruptly shocking for me, I was beginning to have hope for her future when she was about Olli Paxton, he is the real deal for her, no one else, she was about to fulfill his dreams as well as hers, finally settling down with him and finish a happy life. I didnt like the end as it might have been more interesting to demonstrate how good end can happen. All in all, the story was great, but the character was always in trouble till the end.
A story that will have you frustrated, upset, crying and laughing with every turn of the page. A sad story of a girl that has everything and suddenly her whole world is turned upside down at the age of 19! At each stage you think "well what else can go wrong" and suddenly you are gasping at the horror for what she goes through next! I really enjoyed this book. No matter what life throws at you, never give up.....
This book was good but you wonder while reading it - how much more can this poor girl take (Bettina) 4 marriages! It's like she gets taken advantage of over and over and never learns her lesson. I wish her father was alive longer in the book, we needed more background on her and why she was the way she was. Overall, a pretty good book.
*3.75 This book had a lot of flaws and back and forth and insta love, but that's honestly what I find so enjoyable about Danielle Steel novels. They're incredibly predictable, unrealistic, and too good to be true. But that's what I love about them....guilty pleasure reads :) The ending of this one killed me though. Ughhhh!
