https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207034.The_Prophet_of_Yonwood
The whole time I was reading it, I kept asking myself, "This is really the prequel to the City of Ember?" I can't believe that the editors at Random House actually allowed Jeanne DuPrau to be so self-indulgent.
That's what it felt like, reading this book, as though DuPrau was less interested in telling the story of how Ember came to be and more about forcing her political views down the reader's throat.
I've heard there will be a fourth book of Ember and that it will return to Lina and Doon's story.
Meh. I really enjoyed the first two (last two?) books in DuPrau's trilogy, and was excited about reading this prequel.
I have to say, though, I felt like I was reading something that had been written by a liberal Democrat frustrated with the takeover of the evangelical right and defense contractors in modern American politics.
And I say this as a liberal Democrat who is currently frustrated with the takeover of the evangelical right and defense contractors in U.S. politics.
Not quite the same thing DuPrau's first two books had going for them.
Instead, this book introduced eleven-year-old Nicki, who moves to her great-grandfather's old mansion in the city of Yonwood and discovers there is a woman regarded as a prophet living there, whose words are interpreted by another woman and the city follows her instructions accordingly, trying to be so "good" that "evil" wont come to their town.
Overall, this was a decent installment in the "series" (and I use that word lightly because, as I mentioned earlier, it barely ties in to the other books...) but nowhere near as enthralling as Ember or even Sparks.
Too preachy and the connection to the other books is just tossed in at the end.
Even if you like the Ember books you should skip this one.
Nickie receives coded messages from her father.
How dumb.b.Nickie's great-grandfather leaves a notebook with strange writing but despite all the time spent on it the writings are never explained.
Again I was expecting to learn about the relationship of the great grandfather with McCoy. Perhaps even opening up a relationship with Nickie and McCoy.c. Related to b., Hoyt McCoy is involved in something mysterious.
The idea that the "Believers" in City of Ember were dumb/naive/gullible was an irritating side story but it is the major theme of this book.
This prequel was actually disappointing in comparison to The City of Ember and The People of Sparks. It was too disconnected to these two books to be considered a prequel for my tastes. The story line was not nearly as interesting as the other two books. It does raise some interesting questions about blindly following the prophesies(dictates) of someone else because you think that person must be right instead of trusting your own instincts.
It was a mistake to write a prequel to The City of Ember books.
None of this is answered, though, because the prequel takes place before the city is completed and the main character is the daughter of one of the builders.
Maybe I'll try again one day, but at the time I had the final book in the Ember series waiting for me, and there was no way I was going to wait to get back to the characters I loved in order to read a prequel that basically had nothing to do with the rest of the series.
I was hoping for a book about the people who built Ember and why they decided to not teach them any technology or nation rebuilding skills. This isn't that book. This is the author's treatise on why the Iraq war is a big mistake and how religion only makes people fight. There is more hope in science and studying the stars than in saying prayers. The story was engaging, but I'm getting tired of the religious being treated as zealots and mindless sheep looking for any type of leader. This book was a disappointment.
The author could have done so much more with this considering all the problems that our world could potentially face and the events in this book should have been much worse in order to set up the City of Ember scenario.
A few church leaders in the community have placed themselves in charge of interpreting the prophet's words and they end of making some pretty ridiculous laws for the town.
I think "Ember" and "Sparks" were more successful because the author had more limitations placed on her in creating the worlds presented in those books.
Worst of all, while there were several interesting "clues" throughout the book (her great-grandfather's notebook and the mysterious vision he had and his references to "M", the "sky splitting open", Nickie's father's mysterious post scripts, etc.), there was absolutely none of the engaging, endearing detective work and puzzling that I loved so much in the rest of the series.
These clues either never lead to anything (the notebook), lead to nowhere (the sky splitting open), or were solved without the reader's having the privilege of following the characters as they worked out the clues (the post scripts).Finally, I never really cared for Nickie because she didn't seem real to me.
Mrs. Beeson, the town busybody, attempts to find directions from god in the prophet's vision - don't eat hot chocolate, don't own dogs, don't sing.
Once the prophet explained this, everyone went right back to following laws and lived happily until the next international crises, which was much worse and led to the establishment of Ember.This book made me think of life in small towns, children growing up, the current fearmongering in the war on terror, and the rise of Hitler.I kept thinking that the author was too heavy handed in her approach - it all seemed so obvious.
Do not read this book as a prequel to the Ember series.
Four paragraphs do not a prequel make.
There are two more installments that should be added between this one and The City of Ember: Nickie's dad's story (same 50 year time frame as The Prophet of Yonwood) and an actual prequel beginning where The Prophet of Yonwood ends.Read this as a stand-alone story.
It will be more enjoyable if you aren't constantly looking for how it ties into the first two books.
I enjoyed this story, although at times I found it a bit slow.I think it put the dangers of blind acceptance and obedience to a self-proclaimed prophet, forced adherence of others to those who claim to speak for God, (and how not everyone who claims to speak for God actually does), in terms a child could easily relate to.I think this could give kids good food for thought in a world where there are places where people live under this kind of religious tyranny today, even in some communities in the West, and there are those who strive to place the rest of us under it.
The whole book read as a warning of what was to come, since this was a prequel and we know what the world is like in The City of Ember and The People of Sparks.
In a super anti-climatic way, things get normal and life goes on until the last two pages when the connection to the sequels is made.Whaaaaaat.The talk of the existence of multiverses and the impending war that would supposedly destroy most of humanity comes to nothing.
The warring sides just happen to listen to a guy ramble about universes and knowledge and they just, stop the war because of that?Whaaaaaat.Maybe this was a sort of a heads up for the final book?
I don't know.
به نکته ی جالبی اشاره کرده بود: همه طرفین جنگ و درگیری ، فکر می کنن خدا با اونهاست
This book is a "prequel" to the City of Ember.
There is only one reference to book three on the last couple of pages of book four, and you don't really loose anything by not reading book three.In a prequel to The City of Ember, I would be interested to learn more about the City of Ember and the Builders.
In this book, no mention is made regarding the City of Ember until the last two pages.
Religious fervor leads people to do many things, and this can be an interesting study in human behavior, but this book eventually seemed to treat the idea of God and modern day revelation as something only crazy people get caught up in.
Having previously read DuPrau's "The City of Ember" and "The People of Sparks" and thoroughly enjoying both, I was really looking forward to reading "The Prophet of Yonwood" and I had very high expectations for the third book!
However, I was very disappointed.I found all the characters in "The Prophet of Yonwood" to be quite flat and the storyline was random and unrelated to Ember.
I had high hopes for the "Ember" prequel, but nearly every element of the story- characters, plot, setting- fell flat and left me confused, let down, and unsatisfied.
I haven't liked it so far, and scanning through the rest, here seems to be nothing worthwhile about the book; no reason to keep going.
I was expecting it to tell about how the City of Ember came to be, but it is only very distantly connected to that story, so my curiousity was disappointed.This series is creative and entertaining despite the predictable heavy-handed anti-war moral, but I am getting quite tired of how it continually puts down religion and faith and prayer.
Although I liked the City of Ember a lot, my copy of this prequel is going in the trash.
This book doesn't even need to be read. Hopefully the forth book will be a lot better.
.As the people of Yonwood scramble to make sense of the woman’s mysterious utterances, Nickie explores the oddities she finds around town—her great-grandfather’s peculiar journals and papers, a reclusive neighbor who studies the heavens, a strange boy who is fascinated with snakes—all while keeping an eye out for ways to help the world.
Or is it already too late to avoid a devastating war?Plot:*MILD SPOILER*At first, I was mildly bored with the lack of action, but the farther in the story I got, the more fond of it I grew.
Quotes I Liked:“The idea seemed to be that if you prayed extremely hard--especially if a lot of people prayed at once--maybe God would change things.
I saw the multitude of 1-star ratings...I considered them...and I chose to read this travesty of a book anyway.
Uuuuuhhhh...GOODREADS FRIENDS, DO NOT REPEAT MY MISTAKE!I don't know what DuPrau was smoking when she wrote this crap, but it wasn't the same awesome stuff that created the first two.
Pretty much, this book is just DuPrau's rant on how people can use religion to hurt others.
The plot is stale, slow, and has no significant rise or fall (unlike the last two).Pretty much, if you want a good book that has some effort put into it that isn't just an angry person's rant about religion, read the last two.
{February 10th, 2015} MINI-REVIEW2.5 stars (which is rather generous of me).***MAYBE SPOILERS ALTHOUGH VAGUE SUMMARY SPOILERS*** “The idea seemed to be that if you prayed extremely hard--especially if a lot of people prayed at once--maybe God would change things. The trouble was, what if your enemy was praying, too? Which prayer would God listen to?” This book.... *sighs* ...was the boring way for the beginning of the end of the world to happen. There's 'terrorists' hiding in the woods, the prop
“The idea seemed to be that if you prayed extremely hard--especially if a lot of people prayed at once--maybe God would change things.
*sighs* ...was the boring way for the beginning of the end of the world to happen.
There's 'terrorists' hiding in the woods, the prophet is very ill but has seen untold horrors, things must be done to stay the sinners' advancement to help the world end--something must be done.Unfortunately our main protagonist, Nickie, is really too young so she's left out of this loop unable to do much of anything.
After the first two chapters, the majority of the book felt bland.
I'm afraid that DuPrau has fallen into the all-too-common pattern of writing a series: great first book, a good second, by the third....
I kept reading, waiting for this to all tie in somehow, but that doesn't happen until 2 pages from the end.
I never ever would have read it without the tie-in (which I'm sure is why it's included as part of the series), and now I sort of wish I hadn't.The main message is good - question authority, don't follow blindly, be wary of blind faith - and one I want children to take in, certainly.
I'll agree with many of the other reviews.
This book just isn't up to par with the really amazing stories in the first two books of this series.
The City of Ember and The People of Sparks are much better than this book.The author does have some nice and believable characters, but the action and drama within the story just fall flat in comparison with her other books.
I really don't see the point of an anti-religion tirade at this point in the series. Also, I'm weary of the ineffective adults in her books. Is any mother or father present in their child's life?
At first I wasn't sure about this one.
I couldn't really see the connection between this story and what had happened in the previous two books.
Jeanne DuPrau is a good writer though and if you stick to the end of this one you do get the connection.
It contains lots of social commentary about topics like war and religion and social constructs.
The story of the nations at war isn't fully explained but that doesn't really matter.
Only one more book to go in this series for me and I will finish, but I need to go read some other stuff now.
The story was good and well written.
However, I was left to wonder how this story fits in with the City of Ember?
Why the prequel before the conclusion of the story, after all this is a four book seriesI don't like or read prequels that often.
I guess, I always felt if you had something to talk about before the first story, then why didn't you start there?
How the City of Ember was built and learn more about that instead of this side story that I read.
I give the book 3 of 3 stars because it was well written.
She then goes on a crusade to carry out the none-sense instructions until the lady eventually wakes up and explains what happened.That's it, that's the story.
You could skip whole chapters and not miss anything.The worst part about all this is Jeanne teases you with interesting story lines.
Never elaborated on, only used as a possible reason the war is postponed for 50 years.What about the fathers cryptic messages?California (hide spoiler)]*Face Palm*Final Score: The setting sucks, the writing sucks, the characters are irritating, the plot line is nonexistent, and It has only the most tenuous connection to the first two books.
Bismillah.I like books from Jeanne DuPrau.
I think that her books suit current situation very well.
I would say that I could agree with 90% of what she's writing in her previous two books.
There's no God or 2.
There are many gods fighting for control.
Yes, I am a Muslim.Religion it seems, for DuPrau, is a list of rules that are unbendable, rigid and limiting.
Religion, for me is a collection of principals, that can be bent according to situation.
And I find the Quran and the Hadith a perfect guidance for mankind.Allahua'lam.
One of her neighbors believes that the vision is a prophecy, and the residents of Yonwood must follow the messages hidden in the prophecy (that only the neighbor can decipher) to prevent worldwide destruction.
Yeah, lots and lots of things happen, characters are introduced, but we’re never quite sure why because their stories are neither wrapped up nor tied into Ember or Sparks.I think "prequel" is a bit misleading - "companion piece" might be a better descriptor of Yonwood.I would love to read more about the creation of Ember - specifically, what events took place that precipitated the construction of Ember, what the journey underground was really like, and how the first inhabitants dealt with the change.
