https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/335238.Berlin_Diaries_1940_1945
Upfront: I would rate this book zero stars for its literary value but 5 stars for its highly interesting contents.If you are interested in historical facts connected with WWII (especially the failed bomb attack on Hitler by Count Stauffenberg and his allies, who had planned to not only kill Hitler but to overthrow the Nazi regime), this book is a must-read.
So I must disregard this command.The first half of this book is not really what I would call a diary; it reads more like the log book of an escort, registering dinner outings with friends and acquaintances of both sexes (almost all of which aristocrats) and attendances of a seemingly endless succession of dance parties and other celebrations (at various embassies but also at private castles and mansions) with aristocrats, political higher uppers, and other celebrities.
She began the diary in January of 1940 when she went to Berlin to look for employment, and she continued through the end of the war.I am really in awe of this woman.
It was never intended as anything but a personal record, and Missie is not trying to speak for all German people or for all civilians.
She only reports her own life, and she ended up in Berlin because she could get a job there.
This book has most value as an eyewitness to life in Berlin during the war, but it also provides a glimpse into a world of landed estates and titled wealth.
What drew me to this book was I wanted to know more about the July 20th plot to kill Hitler.
She worked with and knew the people involved with this plot.
It is fascinating to watch the events unfold…and horrifying to read of its consequences.
Fascinating people and fascinating events told in a riveting manner.
It seems strange that she was so tightly aligned with the people involved in the plot.
It is stated that her brother’s thought and explanations are added, but that she did not alter her diary writings when the book was to be published.
Even when she describes the carpet bombing and resulting firestorms in Berlin she sticks with her "just the facts, ma'am" prose.Casual readers of Russian literature ,which includes me, often have problems with the various names, patronymics, military ranks and noble titles often used in various combinations to refer to the same character.
Vassiltchikov knew many of the members of the conspiracy which carried out the July 20 plot, an attempt to kill Hitler, seize the reins of government and negotiate some type of surrender with the Allies.
This is described with the same attention to detail as he bombing of Berlin a year earlier.
Final review: i remember why I loved this book.
I read this book when I was in college and remembered that I had really enjoyed it.
I'm not a huge non-fiction reader so things have to grab my imagination.
One of the first things that helps me with this book is the lack of footnotes--I despise footnotes and endnotes that destroy the rhythm of a book.
This book is written with the author's diary in "regular" font and the comments and notes from her brother (her editor) in italics after relevant paragraphs.
Please take note all you footnote addict authors!On to 1943...
The author was a White Russian whose aristocratic family escaped Stalin's terror and fled to Germany just before World War II.
That said, the book does get more interesting, perhaps because the author herself seems more invested emotionally in the horrors of the Nazi response to the attempted murder of Hitler.
Having read about the V bombs and the Blitz directed at London, I am not sure the author (or rather her brother who writes the comments between the diary entries) can really claim much moral high ground.
The reason: the rich detail Missie recorded about her daily life in Berlin including what it was like to live in the city during the years it was constantly being bombed.
This is one of the few contemporaneous diaries from that time.
She was a beautiful White Russian Royal Princess, as she reminds us several times, and kept up her active social life amisdst the slow collapse of Berlin.
In doing so, she recorded details which can seem girlish and flippant now since she mainly writes about how the war is making her life social life difficult.
This book offers a unique and extraordinary glimpse into the life of the people during those terrible and unforgivable air raids made by Allies.
The terror, hopelessness, confusion and dismay comes through very well in the lines Missie penned down in her diary, day after day.
At times, Missie goes into a ramble and that gets boring and drags.
Overall a good read for those who are fascinated by the life and times of the German people during the war.
A day to day account of an exiled RUssian princess during WWII in the middle of the hell Berlin was 1940-45.
Also is such an interesting perspective because she was attending royal functions and rubbing elbows with lots of dukes and duchesses while starving and working as a secretary.
Typical day: work for the SS office as secretary, walk home through burning Berlin, find an invitation to some royal function so as to procure dinner, hang out with commie friends, go to bomb shelter during nightly raids.
Nice to read especially since I am living here in Berlin and can visualize each street etc.
This book was a diary that involved many people that Missie knew. At first the book was a documentation of her social friends going out every night, but then some of her colleagues were involved in the July 20 plot. Suddenly the diary is amazing, but then three months are missing. Her struggles at the end of the war showed what life was like throughout Eastern Europe.
Exceptional. As I read this book, I realized I was reading slower and slower because I did not want the book to end. Small details of civilian daily life in Berlin--that you don't usually have an opportunity to read about--filled this book.
What sets it apart from most other works of its kind is that the author ("Missy") a young exiled White Russian aristocrat more or less exiled in Nazi Germany has to make a living and deal with events as the war becomes ever more menacing, encroaching on the personal lives of herself and her sister Tatiana and their wonderfully large and diverse circle of friends and relatives, who seem to be fighting or suffering on all sides in the war.As the diary progresses it takes hold.
What would a White Russian do in Nazi Germany during WWII? Other than drink impossible amounts of champagne and carouse with various Counts and Dukes? Plot to kill Hitler, of course.A strange and bewildering account of wartime Berlin. Hilarious at times, also scary and sad. Read it for the stories, not the writing.
This is either a wonderful book to read, or a bore, depending on what you like.
Marie's journal entries are interspersed with historical annotations (made many years later by her brother George).
Italicized, to set them off from the diary entries, they add perspective and illumination to the things Marie is describing.
But that is the risk one runs when centering an entire book on journals.
How about creating an account that seamlessly meshes George's ably-crafted commentary with Marie's entries (the latter written in memoir style).
And that, in a nutshell, describes the limitations inherent in a book full of journal entries.
It's very interesting to read about how ration tickets worked, what the job market was like, the extent of disruption of daily life, the soldiers' trips back and forth to the front, her escape from the advancing Soviet armies as Germany and Austria collapsed, etc.If you want deep-thinking about the horrors of the Nazi regime, you're not going to find it here.
If you enjoy this book, I'd also recommend The Orientalist, which is about another refugee from the Russian Revolution hanging out in Germany during the war.
After the Russians invaded Lithuania, where the family wound up, she and her sister Tatiana fled to Berlin, where they were assigned work in the Foreign Ministry.
After the failure of the July 20, 1944 plot to kill Hitler, of which she had peripheral knowledge as an aide to Adam Trott, Marie sought to leave her ministerial work and finished the war as a nurse in Vienna.
They get higher degrees at universities all over Europe, live on their country estates in a manner largely untouched by the conflict, and have princely weddings --- which Marie attends.It is an interesting read, because of where she was and what she was.
I hadn't heard anything about this book before I bought it, and I picked it up mostly because I thought it might provide an interesting preamble to another striking diary I'd read some time ago, A WOMAN IN BERLIN, set in the city in the immediate aftermath of the Russian invasion.
It did that--I learned that Berlin and its residents were pretty much destroyed long before the Russians got there--but I found it fascinating in its own right because it focuses mainly on a section of society, the European aristocracy, that doesn't often appear in chronicles of World War 2 deprivation.
She provides glimpses not only of some of the mid level power people in Germany but also of what it was like for ordinary people who tried to make do with the bombing and the somber mistrust of a society where free speech is prosecuted if it does not agree with the party line.
She survived many bombing raids and talks about how it impacted the ordinary folks and the people around her that died and the cites that were devastated around her.
Towards the end of the war she ended up working as a nurse.
The diaries were kept by a White Russian emigre who lives in Berlin and Vienna during WWII.
She was involved with many of the people who tried to kill Hitler - the Stauffenberg Plot.
Her diaries give a very different picture of wartime life; most of what I have read depicts horrible conditions, starvation, death, and just general misery.
This woman was an aristocrat and lived a much more pleasant lifestyle.
Parties and dinners every night, trips to country estates, new hats on a regular basis...yet she still suffered.
This was another take on life during war and was very interesting.
Okay, I lied.
I did not finish this book.
It is a diary, indeed.
Of a woman who seems to be not too bright.
You would think Marie would have a lot to say, and she does--about dinner parties she went to with Count this and Baron that.
It's kind of like reading a teenager's diary: I went; I did.
I would never have tried to read this idiotic book were it not for the high ratings on GR.
If you want to read something virtually meaningless, try another book; any other book at all.
The diary of a Russian exiled young woman who lived in Berlin during WWII. Extraordinary and mesmerizing. Witness History through the eyes of a young girl who slowly discovers the reality of the world around her, and survives the horrors of war (while losing many of her closest friends). it's a true diary, and day by day, year by year, it takes the reader on an intense journey through the darkest time of Germany's history. The apocalyptic ending is breathtaking. Nicole Kidman bought the rights of this book at some point - it could indeed made a beautiful movie.
A real look at how one survives in high circles when one is not necessarily in agreement with the "program." A Russian princess living in Berlin during WW II, she was a friend of some of the plotters against Hitler, but was spared. Also, a good lesson on attacking civilian populations - don't because it just angers them and, in this case, prolonged support for the war. Well written, sometimes exciting!
I wanted to love this more than I did. It's definitely an interesting perspective and its pretty neat to get details about civilian life (at least this particular class of civilians) during the war. I just didn't care for how the flow of writing was interrupted by the historical comments inserted between diary entries by her brother. If they had added those in the beginning of each year/chapter it might have been better. For being a diary, I also expected a little more emotion.
I read this in the late 80's. It was common person's perceptions of what was going on all around her. A mix of slice of life and historical witness. It gave me an idea of what it was like to live in a city that was constantly being bombed. While she did not support Germany she did have German friends.
I love this book. Such an interesting glimpse into life in Berlin during WWII, told from the perspective of a foreign aristocrat. The author notes not only the trivia of daily life but also talks about the times and how they affect her and her life.
This is a fascinating glimpse into WWII from the point of view of a 'White' (Royalists or anti-Communists) Russian. I don't read too much non-fiction, so this really stands out in my memory as an intriguing book.
I read this in two days, simply couldn't put it down.I found this book fascinating, The diary of a Russian exiled young woman who lived in Berlin during WWII. Extraordinary and mesmerizing. Witness History through the eyes of a young girl who survives the horrors of war. excellant book a must read.
This isn't just a historical book. Its a diary written by a white russian princess during World War II. A true story it follows her travels throughout the war as she lived and worked in Berlin but continued to live a life amidst bombs, lack of services and war.
This is a tremendous first-person account of wartime (WWII) Germany, written by a White Russian princess. Her transition from spoiled post-deb to capable adult is remarkable.An excellent book, and worth owning.
An incredible view of WW2 and the Holocaust as it was happening. Vassiltchikov was able to act as observer and later in collaboration with freedom fighters as they sought to put an end to Hitler's regime. Marvelous perspective.
