https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180724.Chocolate_Fever
FINALLY found a chapter book that all of my kids enjoyed!!!
I tried Fablehaven and Beezus and Ramona and a few others, but we never got past the first few chapter of any of them.
Then I remembered hearing about a book called Chocolate Fever and figured that since all of my kids are such candy freaks, they would be sure to like this one.
They were all begging me to read it every night and were excited about it and talking about it together and really enjoyed reading it.
Now to find another that they'll all like...ack!
One, chocolate lovers can get some good ideas on what other ways they can eat chocolate.
Second, on what things can go wrong if you eat to much chocolate.Do to the fact, that people love chocolate you should read Chocolate Fever.
If you read this book all of the chocolate lovers out there can get some different ways to eat chocolate.
So I want you to read Chocolate Fever, my favoret book because you can get different ideas on how you can eat chocolate.
So read my favoret book Chocolate Fever, but think about it before you put that last piece of chocolate in your mouth.
Heidi must have known that there was something delicious about that story, because Chocolate Fever went on to sell almost two million copies.But, ideas for books don't always come that easily.
So in a sense, I am discovering the story along with my characters," says Smith.The message he wants to convey to children with his books is simple but fundamental: "Get the most out of yourself, enjoy life, and be good to people along the way." He says that he also writes about making moral choices, without lecturing his readers.
Henry learns some valuable lessons about too much of a good thing, respecting his parents and more through this comical/adventure tale.Ages: 5 - 10Cleanliness: Mentions that Henry and his brother argue often and that his brother hits him on the head - just one sentence.
"For heaven's sake" "stupid" "heaven knows" "Oh, Lord" "Gee" and "goodness" are said.
Henry runs away but learns that that was wrong.
Some bullies pick on Henry.**Like my reviews?
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
A 1972 copyright date + a recent parent concern had me revisit Chocolate Fever. When you read a lot, you read a lot of the same. Not this treasure. What a hoot! Fast-paced fun that belongs in every leveled library.
How much chocolate can you eat every day?
Chocolate Fever is about a boy called Henry Green who was born a chocoholic.
The doctor says he has got a disease called Chocolate Fever and he is allergic to delicious chocolate.
Is it a cure for chocolate fever?
To cure the disease, he needs to eat the opposite of chocolate.The story is delightful and it provides lots of belly laugh.
It is an enjoyable book as it tells you different ways to eat chocolate.
Chocolate Fever is a fun read for everyone.
If you wonder what the opposite of chocolate is, read the book and follow Henry’s wonderful adventure!
Chocolate fever is about a boy who loves chocolate and eats it all the time and never gets sick, but one day he ate chocolate and his body started acting weird, so he went to school and chocolate dot started to pop on him and the teacher sent him to the doctor.
After, Henry thought the doctor was no good use he ran away.
Now that I think about it, who doesn't love chocolate unless you are allergic and that will suck if I were allergic to something sooooooooo delicious.
it seemed like such a nice things to read too because it had a little of adventure and a little bit of everything else id like in a book.
at first we get to know that he loves chocolate on everything like whatever he eats.
i just loved this book because 1 it had to do with foods, and 2 it was a food i liked so...just add the things together and you d know that id love this book in a quick sec.
its a great book, lots of people should totally read it!
This book was a good book.I liked this book.This book was about a boy that loved chocolate.The boy ate shocolate so much that he started to have chocolate dots all over his face.His parents started to get worried when the dots kept going and coming back.
When the parents got to worried they took the boy to the hospital.
The doctor said he has a unique concusion.His concusion was called Chocolate Fever.The boy was so scared that he left the hospital and ran away.
Henry is a little boy who adores chocolate!
He eats and eats and could never have enough....well until one day at least when suddenly he doesn’t feel so great.
He goes to the doctor with this phenomenal case of chocolate fever but the doctor just isn’t doing enough.
So off goes Henry on the run, with a number of people chasing after him.
He finds a friend and they decide to take up residence in a cabin till the drama dies down.
They make their way home eventually and stop at a store where luckily they come across the cure for his fever...none other than...Vanilla!
The doctor thought he had freckles when he ate too much chocolate.
He ran away because he was tired of the hospital.
He found his friend Sam and they drove away.
On the first night they almost got robbed by famous robbers.
The police came and captured the robbers.
They decided to go back home and on their way home they stopped at a store.
The store keeper said that it looked like the boy had chocolate fever.
The store keeper gave him a bottle of vanilla pills.
He got better because everyone knows that vanilla is the opposite of chocolate!
Personally I really like Chocolate Fever. This book is good for all ages. It is a really easy book to read. Even someone with a reading disability stays interested in the book. It is about this kid who is obsessed with chocolate. He eats it for breakfast, lunch, and dinner everyday. One day, he notices that he was starting to get brown spots all over his body. Could this be because of his chocolate obsession?
I fondly remembered this book from my childhood so thought I'd try it as a read aloud for my boys. The verdict: light, fun, and kept their interest. Cute story about what happens to a boy after comes down with a bad case of "chocolate fever" and then runs away from home. Nicely paced with a happy finish.
A fun, sweet story. Read aloud in two sittings to the 5yo who begged for one more chapter and then another and another; will have the 8yo read on his own. Some great messages without being overly preachy or heavy-handed. I'm trying to stop being so profligate with five-star ratings, but this is a solid 4.5.
Good narration, very humorous. I thought the ending would turn out to be just a dream, but luckily, no! Some good discussion can be generated when Henry crosses paths with some bullies, gets into the truck with a stranger (who is very helpful!), and runs away from his problem. Overall, though, a very enjoyable story and perfect for book club, which is why I read it!
All i can say is,hahahahhaha very funny amusing book i love it i think it is worth the time and the laugh.Also, if you love chocolate like me i am eating it right now it is sooo good so any way read it love it rate it comment review recomend i love it!!!And i am sure you will to.
This book is a wonderful story and why would Henry green eat eggs with Chocolate on top.Who would ever do that well his mom appreciates him eating chocolate EVERYDAY!!! well i wouldn't be Henry because he will have a chocolate fever!! There is no such thing as chocolatefever's.
I liked this book a lot. This book is and easy quick read. It is also a good book to read. The book is about a boy who loves chocolate and eats it with everything. He then breaks out in a rash that is pure chocolate. I would recommend this book to middle school or elementary students.
What I love about chocolate fever is that how much Henry Green likes chocolate and he never gets affected by his obsession of chocolate.
I also love in a day Henry Green is terrified and doesn't know what to do or what to expect.
But I wonder if all the chocolate that Henry eats is making the parents have money problems, but they love their son so much they keep buying more chocolate.
I also wonder if he got his chocolate obsession by one of his friends, like before he was obsessed with chocolate one of his friends made him love chocolate.
Read this when I was a little kid and liked it a lot, but I think I'd be happy to have the fever and the spots if I could eat as much chocolate as I wanted without gaining weight like Henry.Kind of takes a weird turn when Henry runs away from his medical team by hitchhiking with an adult!
Luckily for Henry the adult happens to be awesome and coincidentally sells chocolate AND has an employer that can solve Henry's problem.
Very deus ex machina.Thought the book might discuss how delicious and nutritious fruits and vegetables are, but that definitely never happens!
My 9 year old daughter brought home this book because she is having to read it in school. She asked me if I wanted to read it. I told her sure that I would have it read before I went to bed that night. So, I read it before bed. It's a goofy book but it has a great moral to it, you can't indulge in everything you love. So don't eat too much chocolate!
Two great lessons embedded into a funny read- first, that it feels unpleasant to be the recipient of unwanted attention based on the way you look. Nest, that you can't have everything that you want all the time, when you want it- moderation is the key.
I like this book about chocolate fever kid and sick when eat much chocolate make happen but don't go to doctor will more learning for cure in chocolate fever then need vallia pill will better.
Henry Green is a boy who lives with his father, mother, and two older siblings, almost fourteen year old sister Elizabeth and ten year old brother Mark, in an apartment in the middle of the city.
Henry loves chocolate.
His mother says that he probably loves chocolate more than any other boy in the history of the world.
One day, which starts off like any other day, Henry finds that strange things are happening to him.
Things get so hectic and out of hand at the hospital that Henry runs away.
“We can’t have everything we want every time we want it!” It may be a hard lesson to understand, but Henry finally gets it.
A silly, weird book that speaks more to kids than the adults reading it to them.
The middle of the book is odd even by its own standards.Henry Green loves chocolate.
Back in the 1970s, hitchhiking wasn't seen as dangerous or as unsafe as it is today, and children running away to be helped by a friendly adult on the road seemed more natural then than now.
The book is moralistic and a little preachy, but this is for very young children, not older readers: think Junie B.
The last time I read this book was over 25 years ago.
The woman of the house felt my fever, saw spots all over my stomach and told me I had chicken pox.
She explained to me that I had probably gotten them from another child, and told me not to worry, that the pox would spread all over my body, but go away in a couple weeks.
In tears I explained that if other kids saw, they would see "chicken" pox as proof of cowardice.
As a way of comforting me, this nice woman, Pam, lent me her son's book, Chocolate Fever.
I thought "Chocolate Fever" was a really good book. I think it was cute the way Robert Kimmel Smith got his point across. A boy named Henry Green loves chocolate, he eats it for every meal of the day. Henry is sitting in school when he gets a rash. Nobody has ever seen a rash like this before.  In "Chocolate Fever" Henry Green is the main character of the book. He loves chocolate and eats it with everything. Mac is a semi driver who picks Henry up when he is running away from home. There is als
I thought "Chocolate Fever" was a really good book.
A boy named Henry Green loves chocolate, he eats it for every meal of the day.
In "Chocolate Fever" Henry Green is the main character of the book.
Mac is a semi driver who picks Henry up when he is running away from home.
A theme in this book is “be who you are.” Kids made fun of Henry, because he ate chocolate too much.
Also when Henry got a rash from the chocolate kids made fun of him.
He just thought of a comment to ask them why they didn’t have chocolate fever.
Thankfully, they are at least reading from a newer edition with a much more contemporary-looking cover, but the story is still lacking.Lastly, I have concerns with how easily Henry runs away with Mac and while this all works out fine and Mac is trustworthy, the idea that he has just hitchhiked with a stranger doesn't really seem like something I want to glamourize with my eight-year old son!
I hope that his teacher incorporates this into her book study, but if not, at least I will know what conversation to have with my son!
So this book is about a boy who ate so much chocolate that he gave himself a disease: Chocolate Fever.
Even as a kid I had trouble swallowing the premise--not just because you can't GET chocolate fever (of course--that's the fun of it), but because I couldn't see parents actually letting their kid eat like that unless they were neglectful and Henry was buying his own food or something.
In Chocolate Fever by Robert Kimmel Smith my favorite character was Henry because he ate chocolate cake every day for breakfast. He put chocolate sprinkles on his noodles. He had chocolate for a snack every day. I also liked Lefty and Louie because they were funny. I liked when Lefty said, “I’m Lefty, he’s Louie. People get us mixed up sometimes, but I don’t know why.” I was surprised when Lefty and Louie took over the truck. Later, I was surprised when all the dogs came running out from the do
In Chocolate Fever by Robert Kimmel Smith my favorite character was Henry because he ate chocolate cake every day for breakfast.
People get us mixed up sometimes, but I don’t know why.”	I was surprised when Lefty and Louie took over the truck.
Like when Henry’s spots popped out of place, Robert Kimmel Smith wrote, “Pop!
Pop!” He also used an exclamation point in the title of chapter six, “Catch That Boy!” I want to learn to use punctuation marks like him.
I would give this book a six out of ten because I like how the author wrote, “Pop!
