https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84730.Beat_to_Quarters
I started reading these years ago and still enjoy them. I've recently been trying to fill in gaps in my reading of the story (chronologically speaking). This is the story where Hornblower first meets Lady Barbara.In the book Hornblower is thrown into an untenable political situation where (again) his lack of self confidence convinces him that his career is ruined (as I said, again).As always good narration, good plot, good characters. These are excellent books.Recommended.
Long ago I read the first Aubrey Maturin book and absolutely hated it.
Easily one of my most hated fiction books of all time.
Maybe later books are vastly better.
Maybe people didn't read them in order.
I don't know.The Hornblower books are one of those things that I've always been vaguely aware of.
Like a 1930s James Patterson, all action, no nuance.
I'm glad I did because it was nothing like what I expected.There is some action -- quite a bit of it -- but there was far more characterization of Hornblower than I expected.
Another good Hornblower novel, a bit shorter than some.
They empty the ship entirely, refit & fix her as if she were in a refit yard, & sail off in 2 weeks!Hornblower's navigation is fantastic.
Twice he managed to hit tiny targets after months at sea.
How he managed that after 7 months with the old clocks, all the currents & storms, is nothing short of miraculous.There are plenty of other wild adventures & issues that come up.
It's packed with adventure.
Glad I didn't read any of the short stories or books further along in the chronology.
Thirdly, the publication date helpfully informs me that "Beat to Quarters" was copyrighted in 1938, which puts it at the tail end of the interwar period, a time during which I believe some of the very best literature ever to be produced was being written and published on both sides of the Atlantic.So, imagine my surprise when I found that I loathed Horatio Hornblower - or, at least, his first literary incarnation.
When Forester's pomposity is the most believable thing in the whole book, I know it's time to revisit the Hornblower DVDs and see the naval hero as he should be seen: uninhibited by the inadequacies of his creator.
I quite enjoyed "Beat to Quarters" and thought it was a fine sea-adventure tale; I didn't understand most of the nautical terms used so some of the action probably went over my head--however, I never felt lost or completely confused. I enjoyed the writing style, which was pleasant and easy to read, with plenty of humorous touches. The ocean battles were exciting and dramatic; Hornblower was a good character, and the strategies he uses were interesting and never boring.
This review is for the complete 11-book series of THE HORNBLOWER SAGA by C.S. Forester, which I just finished reading last night.[Note: Individual books have individual star ratings (mostly 5-star, a few 4-star), but the descriptive review will be the same for each, and encompass the entire series, as follows.]Actually, I just finished reading the complete series for the second time, the first being as a teenager some 30 years ago.It's remarkable to me that I have only just this moment realized that my own timeline regarding the two readings corresponds almost exactly to the age progression experienced by the main character in the course of these 11 novels.It's a 30-year journey unlike any other I have ever taken in books - full and deep and satisfying.This is the epic saga of fictional British naval hero HORATIO HORNBLOWER, who goes from a 17-year-old midshipman to a 46-year-old admiral during the "golden age of sail" which encompasses the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century.I'll list the 11 books in chronological order (not the order they were written), which is the best way, I believe, to read them:- MR.

The bulk of the story revolves around life on a ship of the line in the early 1800s, the relationships among the upper levels of the crew, the tension of being alone at sea, and the exciting action of naval battle.
Lady Barbara, the female lead of the book, is as empowered as a realistic female character can be for a story set in this time period, but Hormblower's is almost incapable of interacting with her with the confidence he routinely displays when commanding his ship.
This was the first book written by Forester in the Hornblower series.
At first I found it lifeless and boring- compared to the other ones I had read.
But soon enough it got going and turn d into the rollicking, fast paced action the series is known for.
Unlike the first four books in the series, HH is given more human qualities.
This book started out with him as a stoic, naval Captain with unfeeling ice water in his veins.
He mellowed and even became a romantic by the end of the book.
Let’s see in the next book!
For their sheer weight in story alone, Forester's Hornblower books set themselves well apart from other adventurous fictions: that Forester substituted a priori heroics with careful portraiture makes them all the more fascinating reads.This volume is the first that Forester wrote in his eleven book series--and it is not one of my favorites.
Certainly, Forester showed a better hand in his later Hornblower tales for wrapping up a story and leaving the reader mostly sated.I still enjoyed this chapter in Hornblower's career, and I will still pick up the next with avid appetite.
In his own right, Hornblower is certainly an engaging and complex character and the series is an interesting study in leadership, and a fascinating portrait of life at sea in the age of sail.
For one, the first two books really are outliers, the first more a collection of short stories than a novel and the second told from a point of view other than Hornblower's.
I'm also rather fond of Lady Barbara, who is introduced in this novel--not many opportunities in a series about adventures at sea in the Age of Sail for female characters to make their mark.
Chronologically, The Happy Return is the sixth book of the adventures of Horatio Hornblower by C.S. Forester.
It was the first book of Hornblower adventures written by Forester, published in 1937.
lolWith all that preamble, The Happy Return, like most of the Hornblower stories, was an excellent adventure.
Hornblower captures a Spanish two-decker and is ordered to turn it over to El Supremo and his crew.
Hornblower with a passenger on board, Lady Barbara Wellesley, must now go and try to keep El Natividad, the Spanish ship from capturing Spanish cargo ships headed to Panama.
I have never thought about the total allegiance a crew would need to have towards their captain and how the captain would go about establishing such respect. This book was a little heavy on the 'ship' side for me (descriptions of ship life - running a ship, steering a ship, etc) so I skipped over some pages. Overall it is a good read. For some reason, I really liked the El Supremo character, a crazy, maniac of a leader but kind of fun for me to picture. Maybe my kids should call me "La Suprema".
Well, I started to read the Horatio Hornblower series.
One decision to make is between reading them in the order in which they are set, or the order in which they were written.
I chose the less popular route of reading them in the order in which they were written.
This means I began in the middle of Hornblower's career, when he is already the captain of his own ship (a frigate, in this case).This first novel was very good.
I look forward to continuing to read this series.
Amazing. very good piece for the historical novel genre. Further than providing a beautiful story, characters and general ambience in parallel with 19th c. naval history this book portrays perfectly the psychology of a leader in stormy situations, Captain Hornblower in this case.
I read this book for a school assignment. It was very interesting and historically educational. However, I probably won't go on to read any more of the series. The story wasn't especially exciting, but that was mostly because the setting was usually just Hornblower and his crew sailing around. Overall, an educational and interesting read.
Wow, the half of series.I would never have thought that I ever would hold Beat to Quarters (The Happy Return) in my hands. Is it the passion for naval stories or the passion for English-written books that brought it to me? Could I ever imagine of reading at least some of the H. H. stories? Yes, I could. But I have to admit that my imagination often overtakes my own skills...It is apparent that  Beat to Quarters  was written first, maybe because H. H. is not the same as in previous books; and sti
Is it the passion for naval stories or the passion for English-written books that brought it to me?
I didn't quite understand it at first; but then, it seems that the whole story still holds together, even when there is a different part.And Lady Barbara Wellesley?She reminds me of something but I cannot remember what.She still looks like a lady, even after four months on board of frigate.
Maybe I just don't understand the affairs in the navy.)It's apparent that after the conversation with Bush she falls in love with H.
As captain of the LYDIA Horatio receives orders from the Admiralty to perform a nearly impossible mission off the coast of Central America.
But as she soon learns: a frigate is no place for lady, so the irritated captain assumes a mask of cool indifference.
Still, a grateful woman of power and prestige could discreetly advance his naval career—if she wished—behind the scenes.With typical bravado and tremendous navigational precision Horatio maneuvers his ship into a life-and-death struggle with the mighty NAVIDAAD, which grossly outweighs and outguns his frigate.
A man of surprising self-doubt and self-criticism the now middle-aged captain presents a stern mask of taciturn sang-froid before his crew and loyalfirst mate, Bush.
***May contain Spoilers***"Beat to Quarters" has introduced me to a fantastic character in seaman Horatio Hornblower.
This is a marine naval story with fantastic battles between ships, good detail about what it's like to be months or years at sea, and touching aspects to how relationships develop in close quarters.
They have a definite appeal to boys, with sea battles and swarmy sailor characteristics but presents lots of emotional development, especially between Hornblower and Lady Barbara.
"Beat to Quarters" is the first written Hornblower book, but not the first in chronology of the series.
In "Beat to Quarters", Hornblower is the captain of the Lydia, a smaller frigate ship bound for Nicaragua.
Happy Return is intriguing because it is the first one Forester wrote, and he clearly had not planned the books that come earlier in Hornblower's career at the time.
The result is that there is some minor disagreement between the books on things like dates, which doesn't really matter, but when reading them in chronological order there is a major snag about the relationship between Hornblower and his First Lieutenant, Bush.
By this time in the story, we know that Bush is Horbnlower's best friend, and was Best Man at Hornblower's wedding, while they have served together in other ships.
I wanted to begin it at the beginning; since there are two 'first' books in this series (chronological and publication order) I settled on the order they were written - and I'm glad I did.The Happy Return ('Beat To Quarters' in the US) is a rollicking action/adventure/romance, reminiscent of swashbucklers of old.
This flawed personality makes us root for him all the more.I'm now reading A Ship of the Line, the second book, and I look forward to the continuing adventures of Captain Hornblower.
C.S. Forester is well known for his series of books on fictional Royal Navy captain Horatio Hornblower.
Between 1937 and 1967 Forester would publish 11 volumes, and do it much in the fashion of the Star Wars stories.
Similar to Star Wars, these first three form a perfect narrative trilogy; they can be read before and without the others, and the reader still gets a continuous storyline that satisfies.
“Beat to Quarters” is set in the Pacific Ocean where we find Horatio Hornblower sailing the frigate “Lydia” of 36 cannon, hoping to cut Napoleon’s supply lines wherever they are found.
This is a delightful beginning to the tale of Captain Horatio Hornblower.
The battle scenes are, heart pounding episodes which made me smile with the thrill: the more emotional scenes and information at the end of the book are just as moving as the destruction of a ship, the blood running on the decks.
[Hornblower] noted this as an interesting phenomenon.’  Forester likes to include snippets of the century they were in and this lends to a deeper and more believable narrative: ‘There was a madman called Wordsworth of whose revolutionary opinions in literature Hornblower had heard with a vague horror.’  Again, I may be biased, but this book was spectacular, and I cannot wait unitl I am back at sea with Horatio Hornblower.
I think this is the first Hornblower book Forester wrote (I get mixed up with the US and British titles), and it's definitely a good one.
(Wait, isn't that every Hornblower book?) Only thing is, if you read in chronological order, as I've been doing, it's suddenly very odd to have Hornblower being all wary in the face of the unknown, as represented by Bush.
I just want to say, I *love* all the scenes where Hornblower struggles with his ~feelings~ for Lady Barbara.
Who I wish no ill to, but god, I wish she'd fallen for anyone other than Hornblower because their relationship is so *miserable* from an outside perspective.
I finished Beat to Quarters last night and if C.S. Forester weren't already dead, I'd kill him.
And this is a good thing.This so-called Book #6 (not book 5 as noted above, by the way) is really the first novel in the Horatio Hornblower series, published in 1937.
Forester wrote the other 1-5 stories as prequels (including the last publication, "Hornblower during the Crisis" (Horatio Hornblower Series #4) which is a collection of short stories and is unfinished), as well as books 7-11.
Despite my sadness at some news received near the conclusion of "Beat to Quarters," I realize the only reason I feel this so deeply is because of the effective story-telling by this master.
Another tail of Hornblower's exploits as a Post Captain.
However his attention to orders and skill were also cause for great aggravation, although for the reader it led to a few exciting chapters on the high seas in all types of weather.
Forester delivers the trials and tribulations from the perspective of both the officer and the crewman, where the reader can only admire the adversity faced by sailors in those days.
More than most of the previous novels we get a feel for the internal struggles of Hornblower's kind nature and his conscious desire to be a well respected captain.
This was also published as "The Happy Return" in the UK.
He is thrown into turmoil by the arrival on board of Lady Barbara Wellesley, and we are treated to his emotional warfare.
Somehow we know Lady Barbara is going to be returning in future books.....There are amazing descriptions of life on board a ship of war at this time with its severe deprivations due to incredibly extended periods of time at sea.
It's definitely hard to imagine the difficulties and hardships, but it just reinforces my own personal awe of the men who not just survived, but thrived in the life of a sailor!
I was bothered by the inconsistencies between Hornblower as described in Beat to Quarters and the idea of the character I had formed from the previous books (chronologically).
It seems Forester wrote the earlier character as the ideal he decided he wanted him to be instead of the character he originally wrote in Beat to Quarters.
There are definite similarities but there seems to be a manipulative quality to this Hornblower that was lacking in the previous, later written, ones.
It took a while for me to get used to the discrepancy but I was still able to enjoy the story.

I like Hornblower saga despite:- hero who is trying to look like really hard man and managed to look like cretin in his inner view, despite the wide social acceptance of his stiff attitude.
- hero who has problems with women...almost virgin type- hero who is bastard to everybody just because he wanted to be coldblooded captain- hero who is loved by his crew and having problem with superiors...no exceptionsHornblower was sent on the mission which was as crazy as it sounds.
The enemy of our enemy is our friend even if it was crazy self appointed dictator who made his advantage on blood and gore in Central America isthmus.
