https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76844.The_Songlines
How much is first-hand experience, or researched or simply imagined, I have no idea.Our narrator, Bruce, teams up with Arkady Volchok, a young man of Russian background who is working in the various remote, hot Aboriginal communities, where he knows and is trusted by the people and their families.
The Mabo land rights case was going on when this was written (from 1981 to 1992), and it was pivotal because it “proved”, through the oral tradition, the continuous connection of different groups of people to different parts of the island from who-knows-how-long-ago.
It seemed to me to be a very honest book - the person telling the story does not try to make himself seem better than he is.I had never heard of songlines before reading this book - the fact that I've lived in Australia for most of my life and did not know this perhaps says as much about me and as much about the life of a white person in Australia as it does about anything else.
It would be too easy to say that white Australia knows nothing about the history of black Australia - too easy to say anything interesting.
Reading this book we are not objective observers of the words on the page instead the author uses the format of travel writing and the illusion of reportage to engage us in the narrative.
Fact blurs into fiction in Chatwin's travel writing, perhaps it is better to say that the journey is inside his head, to pull the fact and fiction apart would be to pull the man's head apart.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Dreaming Tracks: "The Songlines" by Bruce Chatwin(Original Review, 1988-05-15)I’ve been reading “The Songlines” by Bruce Chatwin for the past couple of days, which I’m really enjoying at about the halfway point. It’s a travel book, I suppose, about Chatwin’s experiences in the Australian Outback learning of Aboriginal culture and their belief in ‘songlines’ or ‘dreaming tracks’, or “to the Aboriginals as ‘Footprints of the Ancestors’ or the ‘Way of the Law’.
As I wandered through some special place no one else ever gets to see, I passed a beautiful woman wearing a sheer top that revealed her round breasts and small, pert nipples.
I nodded politely, making my way toward a tall man standing by himself.
"That man is the KING OF THE UNIVERSE.
The last white man who attempted to talk to him -- WELL!
The King sliced him into tiny shreds with his laser eyes!
"I'm Bruce Chatwin."The King nodded his approval and beckoned me to a seat at his side.
I had passed the test.DURRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
This book is easily the best known.I recently read Bryson’s In a Sunburned Country and Diamond’s Guns, Germs and Steel, and both spoke of the Aborigines of Australia as one of the oldest cultures; it was claimed they had been basically unchanged since humans became a behaviorally distinct species--at least until European settlement ended their isolation.
The “songlines” or “dreaming tracks” are songs that mark routes which the Aborigines believe were walked by the Ancestor totems and must be followed and sung to keep the land alive.
Chatwin believed all cultures had their songlines, often preserved in their myths.All good.
The Songlines is, on the surface, an auto-biographical travel narrative.
The narrative Bruce's clumsy attempts to interrogate the Australian aboringine's sacred knowledge smacks of neo-colonialistic cultural tourism.
Is the real Bruce Chatwin really this gormless or is he positioning his narrative Bruce to point out the problems of such a quest?
The reader is led around in these rhetorical circles the same way Bruce is lead around in circles by his aborigine guides.
We want to know about the mythical dreaming animals that dot the aborigine view of their land as much as Bruce does.
That's Shit Dreaming," the guide replies and breaks into hysterical laughter.
To clarify, because I suspect I have just made a strange and confusing statement, I only normally read travel literature which deals with places I have already visited because I want a back up opinion from the author.
maybe the hindsight of 50 years and it's not even your hindsight but someone elses?And this brings me back round to The Songlines by Bruce Chatwin.
This book took me outside of my normal travel read parameters because I've never been to Australia so I have no basis for comparison.
Because I have never been to Australia this book was a songline in its own right for me.

I am in love with the structure of this book; initially, it describes a series of encounters with black and white Australians living in the nearly uninhabitable Central Australia.
He does not mention the crimes perpetrated by white Australians on the blacks - the massacres, the unpunished killings, the taking away of children to 'reeducate' them.
As in "In Patagonia" Chatwin reports about one of his journeys, a meandering quest, not in Fireland this time but in Australia where he went looking for the key to the Aboriginal-culture.
But Chatwin has made a very dull affair of his report, it is not more than a chronicle of his interviews with Aboriginals and other people.
And of course it doesn't help when you read in other reviews that he had the habit of inventing some of the stuff he wrote about (also in other books).
Already before page 100 I noticed I began to read diagonally, and that is lethal.
If I was given a choice of 3 people to invite for dinner from any age, Bruce Chatwin would be one.
I only wish I could sit down (probably in a pub) and watch him drink a pint and tell stories of his travels.
He writes in such a compassionate way about the people he comes across in his travels, he has a way of explaining and understanding histories and events that is so intriging to me.
It is not only about the aboriginal peoples of Austrailia, but about all of us...it alludes to most every time and place and those things that unite us all and make us human
Un po' romanzo, un po' saggio, un po' autobiografia, un po' libro di appunti e riflessioni.Attraverso il contatto, privo di pregiudizi e completamente disinvolto, con gli aborigeni australiani Chatwin ripensa allo sviluppo dell'uomo moderno, ne definisce le tappe, ne riconosce l'aggressività e gli archetipi.Zeppo di spunti per riflettere sulla nostra vita, impossibili da cogliere tutti alla prima lettura, e quindi da riprendere in mano spesso e volentieri, e sarebbe bellissimo che ne esistesse una versione con pagine bianche di tanto in tanto, per aggiungere le proprie scoperte a quelle dell'autore.
I should set down on paper a resume of the ideas, quotations and encounters which had amused and obsessed me; and which I hoped would shed light on what is, for me, the question of questions: the nature of human restlessness."And indeed most of the rest of the book are his quotes and musings from his notebooks, at times a philosophical inquiry into our evolutionary origins, the evidence that our early adversaries were the big cats, why babies quiet down when they are walked given they were carried in slings on their mother's backs, that we are not murderous by nature reflecting on the Cain and Abel myth-story, and so on through language and poetry, the naming of the things of the world as we pass them on our journeys and sing them into being.There is plenty more in this book for a reader: the colonial and post-colonial undertones of the British and American empires vs.
Bruce Chatwin's book is ostensibly an examination of the Australian Aboriginal notion of the Songline: a song that relates a series of geographical locations ranging from one coast to another, tied to the (mythical) creation of an animal, that in a variety of languages unified by tune sings out the geography of the route.
I had no expectations and found a clear account of Australian travels.
He adapts to his environment by plundering his accumulated notebooks when trapped by rains, setting down what is effectively his own Walkabout, the episodic meditations that become the real form and focus of the book.Chatwin's worldview, based on Rousseau and amateur anthropology, does not appeal to all and the book has been controversial for his sometimes-fictitious accounts of the Aborigines.
I read to just read, not because I like what I am reading, which at this point in my life defeats the purpose of it all.
I am getting better at putting down boring books, mainly cause I use the library and I don't have to feel guilty about not finishing them because I didn't invest any money in the first place.
But school kind of killed that for me and I hate not reading something that I started, no matter how boring it is.
Not that it wasn't a good book, it was just soooo boring!
(Or something like that).
The people could find their way unerringly across vast territories simply by "singing" the ancient stories of the Dreamtime creatures.
The stories contained landmarks, and were meant to be sung at a walking pace of about 4 mph.
The timeline of Chatwin's experiences was scattered, so it was sometimes hard to keep track of all the people and their stories.
Most of the notes had nothing to do with Australia, and a clear connection never formed between the notebooks and the book's topic.
Still, The Songlines is an excellent contribution to the ethnographic record of Australia's native people.
Chatwin ha sempre rappresentato per me il sogno la fuga, l'evasione in posti lontani, l'idea stessa 
This book blew my mind. I never considered geography as song, until I stumbled through the bush recreating the Dreamtime with this chap. You'll never glance an odd shaped rock or peculiar growth again, without conducting a epic myth in song, attempting to explain in language a landscape we are all foreign to but responsible for.
****.This is a fascinating book, that explores the author’s efforts to learn the secrets of the Australian aborigines methods of communication via what were known as “the songlines.” Chatwin’s companion on this search was a man known as Arkady.
With time, however, Chatwin managed to learn about their meanings from tribal members – with the proviso that he would keep their secrets.
This work, a record of the author’s travels, follows Chatwin and Arkady through parts of Australia, meeting with various members of different tribes, and learning the meanings of many of the local myths.
This book is three things: a travel book about part of Australia’s outback, with a focus on Aborigines; a quest for what “songlines” are (they are a central part of Aboriginal culture); and a series of italicized quotations and stories that involve such things as the Beast that is at the center of our fears. The quest was what attracted me to the book, and what I liked best. The travel book is pretty good, too. Only the italicized chapters let me down, partly because they seemed to pull the book away from the songlines I was seeking to understand.
Oddly enough, there are no close brushes with death in The Songlines, which I can only assume was an oversight.The concept behind this book is that the Aborigines of Australia navigate their way across the landscape, over hundreds and perhaps even thousands of miles, using song.
In fact, the long stretches of recreated dialogue in the book, which are rendered as it they had been recorded verbatim even though he had no means of actually doing so, make clear that the book is semi-fictional.Chatwin makes use of an unusual technique: he incorporates many pages taken from his writing notebooks, including notebooks with material for an earlier book about nomads which he was never able to complete.

Le vie dei conti sono percorsi che attraversano l'intera australia, disegnando una ragnatela di percorsi all'interno nell'outback, ogni percorso ha la sua storia, ogni uomo ha il suo canto, ogni canto ha il suo sogno.Chatwin vaga nell'outback alla ricerca di aborigeni disposti a far conoscere i propri segreti al pallido inglese, avido di leggende e curioso.
Nel suo bagaglio i suoi taccuini di appunti, presi nei suoi viaggi in giro per il mondo, dall'africa all'Afganistan, sono in realtà una raccolta di considerazioni sul nomadismo, sulla necessità che ha l'uomo di spostarsi e viaggiare.
Any relevant experience or research that might add to his examination of man's inclination towards a life of migration versus the sedentary life if carefully included.
Going back to Cain and Abel, myths and archeology point out that ever since man first pursued a sedentary life and created the villages and monuments we prize in museums, there has continued to exist the nomadic people who just may be less depressed and anxious than city dwellers.
Chatwin further argues that man's defining event is his victory, using only his brain, over the deadly predators that stalked our species during most of our history.
Seldom is there a book that strikes at the core of your being. Chatwin uses the "Songlines" of Australian aboriginal culture to explore an intellectual, philosophical and metaphysical world of the human condition. The book is wildly original; simultaneously a thoroughly entertaining travelogue and also an almost stream of consciousness exploration of history, psychology, natural history, and more. Truly an instant favorite...
This kept reminding me of Jack Weatherford’s Savages and Civilization, which is my handbook on nomads and the city. Both books scattered, personal and flawed, but the testaments of inquiring minds. If you follow nomadology you won’t want to miss them.
Beautiful earth Song...
Mai letto un libro così profondo sul bisogno di viaggiare insito nell'animo degli esseri umani. Il testamento spirituale di uno scrittore meraviglioso morto ahimè troppo presto.
Egli, profondamente affascinato dalla cultura aborigena, approfitta dell’occasione per immergersi nella loro cultura, ma rileva la profonda contraddizione nel lavoro che sta svolgendo per la ferrovia: le Vie dei Canti, infatti, non toccano solo alcuni luoghi specifici, ma investono l’intero territorio australiano, passo dopo passo, costellandolo di “sogni” che vengono cantati e che costituiscono una vera mappatura spirituale del territorio, che viene tramandata di generazione in generazione.Da questo spunto Chatwin parte per descrivere una serie di affascinanti personaggi locali bizzarri e sopra le righe, creando con le sue parole un’Australia desertica che riserva però molte sorprese, percorsa dallo scontro di civiltà bianchi/nativi e in progressiva perdita dei suoi valori originali.
