https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1977947.The_Seven_Sayings_of_the_Saviour_on_the_Cross
Pink is eloquent and powerful, even decades after his death.In no overstatement, this book is truly great.Pink mentions that it was the goal of ancient Greeks to say much in little: "to give a sea of matter in a drop of language." Nearly all of these 139 pages gave oceans of matter.The Book is divided into seven chapters (based on each of Christ's final words on the cross) with seven points under each.
Pink's words are sometimes comforting, sometimes challenging, sometimes chilling...
His words will ring true for decades yet to come.Worth the read.
This book truly helps you to see a portrait of how powerful the crucifixion of Jesus really is. Sometimes in this walk of faith we can become laxed, but the sayings of Christ shows His passion for the people and His dedication to His Fathers will. This is must have on you bookshelf
“Father, into Your hands I commit My spirit.” – The Word of ContentmentHere are just some of the main points that Pink brings out about each of these.The Word of Forgiveness: “Forgive them for they don’t know what they’re doing.” Here we see the compassion and intercession of Christ, the depravity of man, and the holiness of God. In the midst of His suffering, Jesus takes a moment to pray for His enemies, the very ones who have mocked, abused, and crucified Him. These individuals are so sinful, that they don’t even realize they need forgiveness, and have no desire or inclination to repent and ask their victim to do so.
An excellent, rich treatment.
Pink arranges Jesus' expressions into seven "Words";1) the Word of Forgiveness - "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do."2) the Word of Salvation - "Today shalt thou be with me in paradise."3) the Word of Affection - "Behold thy mother!"4) the Word of Anguish - "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?"5) the Word of Suffering - "I thirst."6) the Word of Victory - "It is finished."7) the Word of Contentment - "Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit", and having said thus, he gave up the ghost.In a day and age when salvation has been reduced to "saying a prayer" and simplified to the point that those "receiving" Christ have no understanding of WHO He is or what the Atonement accomplished for them, a commentary such as this is invaluable (though it is not necessarily a work on the Atonement).
He is an expository preacher of God's Word.
An expository teacher takes each sentence, phrase, and word and breaks it down to give you the full meaning of the text.In this book, "The Seven Sayings of the Savior on the Cross", he does not disappoint.
While thematic preaching is necessary when discussing current events in light of God's Word, expository more fully feeds the soul.
We need more teachers like him and Billy Graham.I was extremely excited when Barnes and Noble offered several of his books for the Nook at no cost.
What an eloquent exposition of our Savior's last utterances while on the cross.
Loved the book. Each chapter went into why Jesus said what He did. It also gave pratical application as to why these sayings are still relavant even today.
i want know the reality of Christ life
A small book full of gems that I've used again and again through the years when it comes to preparing a Good Friday sermon. In Pakistan, the Church routinely has a Good Friday service that lasts at least three hours with meditations on the seven sayings of Christ on the cross.
I really liked the book and would highly recommend it to other believers in the Lord Jesus Christ because it tells the story of the Lord Jesus on the Cross and how much He suffered there for our sakes, for the ones He has saved and made new people now in the family of God. Amen and Amen!
This is the classic Evangelical offering on the seven sayings of the Cross. Erwin Lutzer's Cries from the Cross is largely based upon it, and it continues to be the standard by which other books on the subject are measured.
Good harmonization
Powerful book! I loved reading this book, especially during the time of Lent.
fantastic as most of pink' s writings.
Wonderful explanations about the words spoken by Christ as he hung on the cross.
Fabulous
Amazing insights into the Cross of Christ. Awe-inspiring...
was a good read and offered some new thoughts.
Excellent, Excellent, ExcellentThis was a very thorough and moving study on the seven saying of Jesus Christ the Lord. This author appeals both to believers and unbelievers.
