https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/770032.The_Age_of_Reform
Hofstadter's Pulitzer Prize-winning book introduced his idea of "status politics" -- the idea that people don't act from economic self-interest but from a desire to preserve their social standing. He portrayed the late-nineteenth-century Populists as moved by fears of modernity, nostalgia for an agrarian past, and bigotry. Over the years, historians have poked holes in it. Hofstadter overstated the Populists' nativism and glossed over their critiques of Gilded Age capitalism. The book is still a good point of departure for anyone interested in the Populist Period of 1890 to 1940.
Hofstadter differed from his mid-century contemporaries in that he emphasized an anti-intellectual strain in the frontier mentality of America, and in this volume, of the anti-urban, anti-immigrant, nativist, Protestant ethos in populist movements a century ago.
While Hofstadter acknowledges the positive side of those and other reforms, his nuanced spin attaches the mentality of those developments to a nostalgia for the past, an effort to restore a type of economic individualism and political democracy that was believed to have existed in earlier America, destroyed by industrialization and political machines.
I'm too exhausted to explain why I don't entirely endorse this book right at the moment. Suffice it to say that I've long argued that Hofstadter has a pretty strong anti-immigrant bias, and Age of Reform did nothing to change my opinion.
This book covers mainly populism and progressivism, but it isn't about the movements' actions so much as the ideas, mythologies, and social conflicts that motivated them to push for reform.
Progressivism also longed for the agrarian myth, but it was based even more in the anxieties of the old "Mugwump" elite in the rise of what they viewed as a crass, selfish, not service-minded set of new money industrialists.
Both movements, and the New Deal especially, featured ordinary citizens calling on the federal and state governments to attack the problems created by industrialism and take on some responsibility for the common good.Hofstadter's brief comments on WWI are awesome.
A. Synopsis: From 1890 to WWII is the “Age of Reform.” The intent is to show the differences between the Populist-Progressive reforms (which forms the core of the book) and the New Deal reforms. This book does not focus on the politics, or the legislation of these movements. Instead, the main theme is an examination of the ideas of the participants, the conception of their own work and the place it would occupy in history. Hofstadter finds these ideas in popular culture--journalists, publicists,
B.	Three main reform movements: Populism, Progressivism, and New Deal1.
The dominant themes of the Populist ideology (the “soft” side of agrarianism) were: the idea of a golden age; the concept of natural harmony of interests among the productive classes; the dualistic version of social struggles; the conspiracy theory of history (all history since the Civil War was a conspiracy of the international money power); and the doctrine of the primacy of money.
Two farmers: A “soft” one in the fields represents Populism (golden age, harmony, conspiracy); A “hard” one in the middle of a big city represents Progressivism (a middle class person concerned with urban life).
What a fantastic re-read. Hofstadter’s take on both the populists and progressives is wildly out of fashion, but the power and clarity of his liberal vision of a proper democratic politics remains undimmed.
This mighty work covers American political history from Populism in the 1890s, to Progressivism in the early twentieth century, and the New Deal in the 30s.
In a score of cities and hundreds of towns, particularly in the East but also in the nation at large, the old-family, college-educated class that had deep ancestral roots in local communities and often owned family businesses, that had traditions of political leadership, belonged to the patriotic societies and the best clubs, staffed the governing boards of philanthropic and cultural institutions, and led the movements for civic betterment, were being overshadowed and edged aside in the making of basic political and economic decisions.
Leaving the who-did-what-when chronology of events to other writers, Hofstadter seeks to understand these reform movements from the perspective of the people who embraced them.
Hofstadter examines each of these in turn, producing a tightly bound work that is as thought provoking as it is insightful.Hofstadter’s core insight regarding status interests and the degree to which they impact political movements runs in the background of his explorations of the three reform movements of the era.
This emphasis on status interests not only makes the history of these eras comprehensible, but also provides thought-provoking frameworks by which contemporary political movements such as the Tea Party can be understood and evaluated.
Hofstadter takes up a strong (and contested) position on the Populists, as already addressed in Week 2.
Many would contest the idea that Populism was so very successful.
Many too would contest Hofstadter's emphasis on the "success-hungriness" of the Populist leadership.
In sections entitled "The Golden Age and After" and "The Vanishing Hayseed" he traces what happened to the farmers' movement after the end of Populism.
Taking up an increasingly conservative position, "the tone of the farmer's movement was completely transformed" and agribusiness was far more likely to support management than strikers 1( p.
In the end, the farmers' rebellion was turned into its opposite.
I had to read this book for my seminar on the progressive and populist movement in America.
I already do not like having to read for class and to make it even worse the book is non-fiction which is one of my least favorite things to read because they tend to be so dry.
I learned some of the basics from this book but I did not really get a good look into the hearts of these two movements.
This is one of those books that after about five pages your brain is numb and you cannot comprehend and thing you have just read.
A critical and contextual look at the Populist and Progressive movements in American politics; where they succeeded and failed, what forces shaped them and what their legacy was.
Good background into a movement that I view as a big part of my political legacy.
It has definitely removed any rose-colored view of them I might have had, but I’m still left with the lasting and important message that they accomplished a lot of worthwhile social and political change with minimal chaos and violence, whatever their faults may have been.
This basically re-affirms why I identify as a Progressive to begin with.
Richard Hofstadter was a fine, well respected historian. This book is an excellentr analysis nof what he terms "the age of reform." The book traces efforts at reform from 1890 to the second world war. Sometimes efforts at reform were held back, but there was an arc, according to the author, over time. Among subjects explored: populism, progressivism, to the New Deal. All in all, a good exploration of the era.
This book was required reading for Mr. Ellenberger's required U.S. Government course at Maine Township High School South.I was the class commie, having discovered that the application of a Marxist, dialectical analysis to history was productive not only of meaningful retellings of events but also of good grades for essays and research papers.
Populism, Progressivism and the New Deal. Hofstadter draws out the differences between them as well as between the cultures and mindsets that generated them. It was a little dry at times (hence the "3") but I learned a lot--since I took tons of notes, I'm sure of that!
This book deeply altered the way academia thought about and wrote history. Aside from the topical content, Hofstadter incisively examined the language of there-to-fore American politics. Particularly, the inherent and inescapable discursive ambiguity. It's a masterpiece.
The first, he notes, was the populist movement that ran through the 1890s, followed by the progressive movement which ran from 1900 until- Hofstadter argues- the outbreak of the Great War in Europe, and thirdly the period of the New Deal which was concentrated in the early 1930s but the impact of which was felt decades later.
Similarly, Hofstadter separates progressivism from the purely political Progressive Party, suggesting that it was again a much broader social impulse for reform and change that could be felt throughout society.
Driven more by the newly powerful middle class, he argues that progressivism could be felt across all aspects of American society and marked a significant shift in the political and social landscape of the country.
He wants to expunge liberalism of the bigoted and backward-looking elements of liberalism that he identifies in the Populist and Progressive movements.
While Hofstadter respects the Populists and Progressives’ desire to help people, he faults an agrarian worldview as out of step with modern industry, and he faults the Progressives for being too cynical and too individualistic.
He is right to highlight the anti-immigrant and racist sentiments that arose in Populist and Progressive circles, but on the whole is too harsh on their positive elements.
Plenty of the Populists were “conservative” in their desire to maintain an agrarian worldview, even if their protest against economic centralization was “liberal” in a classically liberal, no-strings-on-me sense.
Richard Hofstadter's The Age of Reform remains fresh and readable today, even though it was written in 1955. As always, Hofstadter is an insightful commentator, offering an interesting synthesis of a portion of the American past--in this case, the period roughly from 1890 to 1940. Along the way, he provides many unique and incisive observations. While a truism, it simply is not possible to comprehend the America of 2017 without understanding what went before. I highly recommend this work and Hofstadter's Anti-Intellectualism in American Life (1966).
Finally picked this back up and finished it. The links between the Populists and Progressives were pretty contrived (they often hated each other, and were normally direct competitors), but the overall summary of the time period was pretty on.
Hofstadter once again come across as prescient. I've liked all of his books so far.
Populism leads, he said, to “the cranky pseudo-conservatism of our time,” and he wanted progressivism to lead somewhere purer, nobler, and more useful in the present day (15).The problem is, Hofstadter’s definitions and the bundles of ideas he called liberalism and conservatism were presentist (in 1955), and his concerns were very much those of his own day.
These are both interesting facts, and I think they both complicate Hofstadter’s claim that because of the agrarian myth, the “utopia of the Populists was in the past,” and country people really wanted to “restore the conditions prevailing before the development of industrialism and the commercialization of agriculture” (62).
Often this is done with witty and insightful quotations from unpublished dissertations and obscure works like this one from The New Democracy:"By setting the pace for a frantic competitive consumption, our infinite gradations in wealth (with which gradations the plutocracy is inevitably associated) increase the general social friction and produce an acute social irritation.
the book ends "much of America still longs for - indeed, expects again to see - a return of the older individualism and the older isolation, and grows fanatic when it finds that even our conservative leaders are unable to restore such conditions.
A required text was Hofstadter's The American Political Tradition, but (Am History geek that I was) I went and bought and read most of his other works as well - including this.
His works were required reading for anyone going into American History from the '60's up to the '90's and hugely influential in all Am Historical writing since.
And he does use original materials - often relying on hugely popular books of the times (but now forgotten but all but historians) as a reflection of both the political trends of the times, and how they were often mistaken in the way they viewed themselves.
For Hofstadter, America's infatuation with an agrarian ideal (and its inevitable dissolution in the late 19th century) underpins all the reform efforts covered here.
He argues against seeing the New Deal as the "natural" result of Progressive politics, and instead suggests that this was a kind of pragmatic experimentation wholly distinct from the moral, middle class efforts of the Progressive Era.My only complaint about this book is that it focuses so much on politics and economics that it neglects a real discussion about the social reform efforts included under the auspices of the Progressive agenda.
Despite its whiggish interpretation, and lack of strong introduction/conclusion, it is ruthlessly critical and holds no illusions about its (narrow but nuanced) subject...elsewhere he has written a stirring defense of a national two-party system in america, and that shortcoming limits him here.
the white protestant encounters the immigrant, the latter who interferes with reform initiatives since he prefers to be acted upon political machines rather than make his own world:" The immigrant, in short, looked to politics not for the realization of high principles but for concrete and personal gains, and he sought these gains through personal relationships.
"A landmark study in American political thought," Richard Hofstadter's THE AGE OF REFORM examines the period of 1890-1940 following the post-Civil War era of industrial and continental expansion and political conservatism.
It discusses the relative terms of liberal and conservative demonstrating that neither can claim exclusive ownership of the period: after all Teddy Roosevelt was a Republican and Franklin Delano Roosevelt a Democrat--both used rhetoric from their opposing parties to bring about progressive change and reform.
Although somewhat hard to understand at times, Hofstadter's look at the Populist and Progressive movements of the late 19th and early 20th centuries is illuminating for anyone trying to better grasp the political environment through the presidencies of McKinley, Teddy Roosevelt, Taft and Wilson.
However, I do feel that the last chapter or so devolved into a more philosophically minded discussion, which I had difficulty understanding at times.
Regardless, I would still recommend this book to anyone familiar with the period (this is not an exhaustive history, so novices beware) who wishes to understand it that much better.
Hofstadter here is rejecting the dominant view in progressive historiography, which saw a consistency from Populism, through Progressivism, into the New Deal.
For Hofstadter, the New Deal represents less a continuation of the Populist/Progressive tradition than a break.
Populism and Progressivism were conspiratorial, regressive, and had within them the seeds of a domestic fascism due to their obsessions with conspiracy and their anti-semitism, as well as their need to view all social and political action through a moral lens.
The New Deal was not moral, and certainly not ideological, it was experimental.
Good book about the Progressive and Populist movements of the late 19th, early 20th century.
Here Hofstadter argues that the Populists and Progressive movements both arose from a fear and resentment at the newfound power and status of the industrial elites.
The progressive movement was then an attempt on this erstwhile powerful class to fetter the newly powerful corporations and bosses and get things back to normal, i.e. back to when things were ran by upright, disinterested honest men like themselves rather than interests.
Two different themes jumped out to me:On populism vs progressivism:-populism: reaction to discontent from farmers and businessman with economic changes of the late 19th century.
At the time, largely focused on agrarian reforms-progressivism: growing enthusiasm for social and economic reform based on a broader impulse toward criticism and change.
General theme of restoring an economic individualism and political democracy most felt had been destroyed by big businessOn immigration, two different systems of political ethics:-Yankee-Protestant political traditions: based on individual; demanded constant disinterested activity of citizens in public affairs-European-based immigration: based on family; placed strong personal loyalties above allegiance to abstract codes, leading to machine and boss systems
