https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11652989-battle-for-leyte-gulf
He didn’t speak much to me about the war years.
For me, saying grandpa had been a sailor in the war was akin to saying grandpa was a union electrician.
It was after he died and I came across old photos of his buddies, a Japanese flag, and blurry images of ships firing, that it sunk in that my grandpa had seen a significant slice in history unfold and he had been a part of it.
I am thankful to know more about what happened and what my grandpa’s photos must have meant to him.
I'm no judge of military history, but I enjoyed this book and learning of the strategy and tactics of a very decisive 4 days during WWII. War is hell, but it's also very stupid. I don't think we'll ever learn.
More importantly, Woodward loses none of the drama of the battle or the heroics of the sailors and airmen who fought that day, giving a riveting account of men at war.
Why did Admiral William Halsey take the power U.S. 3rd fleet on what amounted to a ‘wild goose chase’ halfway through the battle, leaving elements of the U.S. 7th fleet fairly at the mercy of the Japanese?
Drawing on interviews taken from both sides after the armistice, Woodward digs deep into the minds of the commanders on that day, noting that save for a few crucial decisions and a few key mistakes, the Battle of Leyte Gulf might just as easily been an ignominious defeat for the Allies rather than a turning point victory.
Van Woodward gives a post-War recounting of the last major naval battle of World War II in the Pacific.
His description of this grand American victory shows how nearly the reverse outcome occurred, as Japan’s attack strategy, by ruse and self-sacrifice, drew a major portion of the American forces far from the center of the action.
Woodward analyzes the moment at which Japanese victory seemed imminent just before its dominating force abandoned the attack and turned away from the potential decimation of American soldiers invading Leyte under cover of the naval battle.
Battle for Leyte Gulf is a captivating read!
Very detailed description of a complex battleThe level of detail in this book is excellent.
It is well written, but required me to read some parts for a second time, just to make sure I understood it.
That is not the fault of the author, for this was the largest battle of the war.
It stretched out over three days and hundreds of miles of complicated territory.
The information gathered from the Japanese commanders really helped in understanding why they acted in ways which seemed puzzling at the time.
All in all, a good detailed description of a very complex and strategic battle.
Woodward actually served with the U.S. Navy as an historian during the Second World War so he was well situated to write this book after the war.
Woodward had perhaps the best writing style of all 20th Century American historians and I would not disagree with that.
Later accounts of the Battle of Leyte Gulf had the benefit of access to classified government records that were not available to Prof.
Woodward when he wrote this book but it nevertheless has still stood the test of time as an outstanding account of this, one of the biggest naval battles in all of human history.
Highly detailed and documented. Difficult to follow without constant reference to maps and other supporting materials, which is a failing of Kindle. In that respect, it helps underscore the fact that no on can witness a big naval battle in person. The witness only sees a few bits and pieces and needs to wait for the book and the film to come out to have any idea what happened.
Hard to get a real sense of the battles from this book
Very readable and clear account of the battle, maps let the narrative down.
Incredible ValorThe bravery and self sacrifice of the U.S. Navy Sailors saved the day. This turned the tide of the war as the Imperial navy was no longer a factor inWW2
WordyAnother book by Hornblower was a better description of this battle in my opinion. Although this one told minute by minute detail it was hard to follow.
A comprehensive history of the major naval battle of World War Two. It is entertaining as well as informative.
The Japanese had designed a strategy that succeeded in pulling the bulk of U.S. naval forces away from the critical San Bernadino Strait that gave Japanese Central Force under Admiral Kurita the opportunity to thwart our landings in the Philippines.C. Vann Woodward gives us a moment-by-moment and battle-by-battle account of what was in fact our largest naval engagement in World War II, one which finished off the Japanese Navy as an effective force.
From post-war interviews which Woodward includes, it appears that Kurita rationalized his decision based on the delay he had with the attacks in the Sibuyan sea, thinking he was encountering a greater force, losses to his own shipping, and the opportunity for engagement with Halsey's returning force.
Very good storyThe story line is very important to me as I now know how my brother died during the battle and was buried at sea. i was to young to really know what it was all about. he was in the navy on the Birmingham.
"The Battle for Leyte Gulf" is a detailed account of the various actions and strategies employed by the Japanese navy in its last great sortie and attempt to prevent the American landings in the Philippines, October 1944.
To this end the Japanese high command deviced a cunning plan involving four separate task forces attacking from different directions in an attempt to lure out the defenders to sea and then deal decisive blows against the American landing forces.The book focuses on the events of October 23rd to 26th and paints a picture of confusion, indecisivness and lack of coordination on both sides and is an good case study of the realities of war.
This book was my first in-depth exposure these three days and the important role they played in ending the Japanese naval threat for the duration of the war.
Now I'm wanting to read the book focusing in depth on the sinking of the Princeton, the heroic attempts to save her and the rescue/recovery efforts which kept losses to a minimum.
Post war inputs from Japanese officers were effectively included to provide a unique perspective of some very puzzling command decisions on both sides of the battle.
If it weren't for Dad's involvement, I wouldn't have read this book.
I would have liked to have learned more about Halsey's controversial decision to go after the Japanese carriers without providing cover for San Bernardino Strait.
The author mentions this, but does not go into it in any detail.
He does not even mention the infamous "The world wonders." signal from Nimitz.
He does better at discussing the lack of communication between the Third and Seventh Fleets.
In fact, communication was sorely lacking on both sides.
Similar to Midway, the Japanese were ill-served by a complicated plan that relied too much on communication, which was virtually nonexistent.
Pluses:Well researched and documentedInformative and educationalCaptured the drama of the various battlesNegatives:Personally found it a hard read. Narrative style often closely resembled military documents writing style.Difficult for me to follow the battles. Too many ships, commanders, evasive moves, and attacks. The Abbott and Costello routine of "Who is on first", came to mind. I simply could not keep track all the movements and was often confused and/or overwhelmed with the action.
This book is a liiiiiitle bit racist and nearly impenetrable unless you already have an encyclopedic knowledge of all the various military personnel involved as well as all the aircraft and ships. I don't think it's a good idea to still refer to the "Oriental mind" as if that was a thing. The author's insistence on calling the Japanese "the enemy" and his occasional use of racial slurs diminish the experience of reading what was already a confusing storm of dense facts recited in a dry voice.
Somewhat dated - published only a couple of years after WWII, before a lot of information from Japanese archives had been found, and more importantly before the cracking of Japanese naval codes was revealed. Also surprisingly lacking in details from veterans.Also refers to the Japanese as "The Enemy" and the US forces as "Our forces", which took some getting used to.Still a useful history, I did learn a thing or two.
Loved the book. Incredible account of the Leyte Gulf Battle. I wish there had been more on the sinking/scuttle of the Battleship Yamato. Having always had a fascination with that WW II dreadnought, it was one of the main reasons I had picked the book up. In any event, it's a must read for any naval war buff.
Fraught with the vagaries of war.This narrative of the largest as wellas the longest naval battle of World War II gives evidence that the admirals of Japan already knew that the war was already lost and it would seem that these men were just going through the motions that were expected of them.
I read this book because I served on the Destroyer USS Johnston which was named after the original USS Johnston which was sunk at the Battle of Leyte Gulf. The book is incredible in the extent of the on the scene sources used. An impressive look at the battle.
Detailed HistoryAnother example, among many, of the aptly named "The Greatest Generation". A generation of farmers, store clerks, mechanics and factory workers saved our democracy. I speak English and am a free man because of them.
While this account was written before revelations about allied breaking of Japanese codes of is a great account of the last naval battle of the Pacific war.
A very detailed account of the naval battle for Leyte Gulf. It's hard to imagine a book more detailed about this battle in existence.
A reasonable balance of detail and readability
This book gave a great account in describing one of the heroic sea battles of WWII. Highly recommend and worthy of your time.
Bravery-Courage
