https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/917922.The_Chalet_School_and_Jo
The Chalet School and Jo sees Joey assume the mantle of head girl.
She's not happy at the prospect and goes off grumbling to the intensely serene now-married-and-making-of-the-babies former head Girl Gisela.
It's sort of glorious and bonkers all at the same time (and if that's not a good way to describe the Chalet School series as a whole, then I'll hand in my book-nerd badge at the door).Coupled with this though is the story of Robin.
Brent-Dyer wrote life, when it dances on the edge of death, so very very well and this book sees some of her finest work.
This is one of the best books in this series, in my opinion.
I generally prefer the Tyrol books to the later ones.
In this book, Jo faces the fact that she is growing up, and must take on more responsibilities, beginning with being Head Girl.
In addition, the Robin's health is giving the doctors concern, while Juliet is having problems of her own.
In these circumstances, Jo has no choice but to grow up.
But there are also always the Middles, and their misdeeds, as they think up exploits that no one else ever has.
Good, believable characterization.
Jo is reluctant to be Headgirl of the Chalet School because she fears it will put an end to the fun she has had in her school days there.
But there is some fun for her, notably a trip to Obergammerau for the famous Passion Play about the life of Jesus.
We also meet the Saints, competitors at a nearby school, and the shadow over the life of Robin, Joey's little adopted sister, is revealed.
This is one of the last books to show Joey as an obstreperous, fun-loving schoolgirl: in later episodes she is competent, dignified, and nearly saintly.
Whoa great book :DxOwn a copy but not willing to sell ;)
It opens on a grumpy Jo grumping about her impending head-girlship and adulthood (and, judging by most of the CS alumnas (alumnae?), engagement, marriage, and motherhood within three years of leaving school).
This one's a real mixed bag. It got a bit slow in the middle but then livened up a good deal. The focus was on Jo's time as head girl yet it didn't really do that focus justice. I never really got a sense of what Jo was like as head - we really only saw what she was like as a sister.
Probably my least favourite in the series, and not one that I read as a kid. The characters just don't seem to be in-character to me - or maybe they just aren't as well-characterised as they are in other books.
It's like Heidi meets Mallory Towers!This was my first experience with the Chalet School books, and the seventh book in a series was probably not the best place to start.
The trip to Oberamergau was especially interesting, as I would love to go there to see the Passion Play one day too.Although the book was first published in 1930 and is rather old-fashioned in some ways (not least of which, the rampant classism displayed by all characters), it is refreshingly progressive in terms of gender equality.
And what a great way to grow up!I'm not sure that'll look out for other books in the series, but I did enjoy this one.
If anyone reading this review actually knows what Robin is in danger of, please let me know!
But the irrepressible, warm-hearted, impulsive Joey we all first loved is very much on display in The Chalet School And Jo, as she assumes the position of head girl for her first term - fretting and complaining mightily at every step of the way.
Joey grows up in this book, and very credibly too, as she's forced to deal with ordinary school happenings (the extreme naughtiness of the Middles) and hints of potential personal tragedy (the shadow of illness hanging over her beloved Robin).
I find this a bit irritating - Donal has dumped Juliet because his sister doesn't think Juliet's family is good enough for him, then after a talking to by Joey, he takes her back.
I saw it pointed out that this is particularly ridiculous after Jo's outrage at Donal & co's snobbery towards Juliet, but this obviously doesn't occur to Brent-Dyer at all.Despite all this, this is one of my favourite books in the series simply because of familiarity, I think.
One of the very best Chalets - it's the summer term, Jo is head-girl, Biddy O'Ryan makes her dramatic entrance to the series, there's a little light romance for Juliet, and they all go to see the Passion Play at Oberammergau.But this is EBD.
When Miss Annersley tells Jo she has some good news, Jo immediately asks 'Are the Saints to have boats after all?' and EBD gives us a great spiel about how the headmistress of the Saints was very nervous about allowing her girls on the water etc etc.
This is a run-of-the-mill book in the Chalet School series - although since my version is paperback, it's entirely possible that the hardback original is better. In this, the seventh of the lengthy series, Jo at 16 becomes Head Girl, although she would have preferred not to. She worries about the Robin's health, deals with difficult 'Middles', and has the chance of a lifetime to visit Oberammergau. Pleasant enough light reading but (at least in this version) not much characterisation. Begins to feel like a typical teenage 'school story' of the era.
This has always been a favourite of mine in the Chalet series. I really appreciated the exploration of growing up and what it meant to Joey as a child and now again as an adult who wishes I was still young! I especially love the descriptions of the Passion Play and all the thoughts that it inspired in everyone.
Hardback 1st - to be altered later. It's disgusting how heavily Armada abridged this series.
Jo as head girl! Of course, how could she not be? I don't love Jo but this one was a good'un, although I will forever be meh over Robin.
This book features Jo in her first term of being head girl, and the trials and tribulations thereof. I enjoyed the book, although it felt flat in places. Still good, though!
Still that unpleasant totalitarian streak. Wives and mothers for the Fatherland!
