https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/423125.The_African_Queen
After typing classic romance into lists one of the books offered was The African Queen by C.
I had been exposed to the movie starring Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn many times because it is one of my mother's favorite movies, but had never read the 1935 classic until now.
Most likely, I would not have read The African Queen if classic romance was not a bingo square.
The African Queen was a fun 4 star read for a lazy afternoon, and I am eagerly awaiting to see the film again.
This novel by C.S. Forester was published in 1935.
I saw the movie first, so when I read the book I pictured, in my mind, Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn.
But it has been many years since I saw the movie, and then only once, so I don’t remember if the movie followed the book, or not so much.
So, the point of all this rambling is, as I read the book all the scenes were playing in my mind like a movie, with Katherine and Bogey as big as life, which I think made the book more enjoyable foe me.

(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
If you think the movie was good, wait until you read the book! The book was written in 1935, so while Germans were the bad guys, they weren't the villains of the 1951 movie. It made for a much better ending. (view spoiler)[ The Germans don't want to hang them or stupidly run into the African Queen, but drop them off with the English after giving them clothes. The last sentence of the novel almost had me spraying coffee "Whether or not they lived happily ever after is not easily decided." (hide s
If you think the movie was good, wait until you read the book!
The book was written in 1935, so while Germans were the bad guys, they weren't the villains of the 1951 movie.
While she didn't give up her religion completely, she certainly got some more elbow room.Charlie isn't a heroic guy.
She was raised to be submissive to men & is to Charlie in most things, however not when it comes to her grand purpose.
Charlie's devotion to her made him forget what was possible, so he just figured out how to do what she wanted done - what had to be done.
I was a big fan of C.S. Forester's Hornblower series and had become completely enthralled by that world. So reading The African Queen and other Forester works like The General directly after finishing the Hornblower series felt strange. I still enjoyed them. Forester was a very solid writer. But those books were their own thing, separated by time and setting. It took some switching of gears to get into them and then they were done. Finished before I could get invested in the characters as I had with Hornblower.
Rose and Allnutt are both English, but even they are engaged in a private little war of domination : they come from different backgrounds at a time where class differences were the defining element of the British social structure.
C S Forester is clearly better at writing nautical adventures than at exploring character motivations, and the highpoint of the book is the perilous journey on the Ulanga river, depicted in vivid detail, especially when it comes to riding the white water cataracts and the gruelling traverse of the delta labyrinth.
However, I will blame work for me not liking it as much as I probably should've because I work with annoying people all day, every day.When I mentioned that I was going to read this book to my family, my dad and mom both mentioned that this was turned into a movie.
Sounds like a game of Risk, right?Rose and Allnutt come from different backgrounds but ultimately come together to solve some unnecessary tension.
I probably would've liked the book a lot more if I wanted to read it on my own or if I didn't read the reviews beforehand..
Her grand plan is to take this rambling wreck of a boat downriver to where the German ship Königin Luise sits, and use the explosives Charlie has stored to make the African Queen one giant floating torpedo and blow it up.
Her plan all along was to go down with the African Queen when it blows up the the Königin Luise, so really, what has she got to lose?
But life, like the Ulanga River, takes some interesting twists and turns, creates obstacles to be overcome, circles back, and catches Rose and Charlie in its flow.This book was written in 1935, so modern readers may find it slow going.
I loved this story of Rose & Charlie going down an African river (with rapids!) in an old beat up boat -- "The African Queen." Their goal is to get to the lake in central Africa where a German ship patrols (WWI) and try to torpedo it "for England!" As they travel down the river they encounter many exciting adventures, and also enjoy a very interesting, and sweet, relationship.I liked it a lot, but I was not quite satisfied with the ending, and thought "Why didn't Forester write the ending as......" Well, come to find out I have seen the movie (45-50 years ago!!!), and as I looked up the movie ending, I found that that was the ending that I longed for!
Also, understanding Charlie's need for Rose's particular kind of love and bravery was heartwarming.All-in-all, there was much more to this book than just an adventurous trip down an African river!
As World War One breaks out, the two lead characters in this book are deep in German Central Africa.
The second is an engineer from a Belgian gold mine two hundred miles further upstream.Two English people, in the circumstances of the war, they have little other option but to band together to try and find a way out, in the small near derelict launch named The African Queen.
Their ambitious plan includes improvising torpedos from the mining explosives the launch is loaded with!So the story unfolds, with the virgin spinster taking control, and the cockney engineer doing as he is told with a 'yes miss'.
I really got into this wartime adventure romance even if it is sometimes on the corny side.
I saw the Bogart and Hepburn movie version years ago, and I don't remember enough if it faithfully follows the novel.
Rose Sayer, the thirty-three-year-old missionary's sister, is a tough heroine, sort of an early twentieth-century Laura Croft with a British accent.
The best fun was to follow their trek downriver and read how they overcame the various obstacles.
The pace keeps things moving along, and I got swept up in their heroic adventure.
I have never watched the movie (only brief clips) so I was fresh to the story. And what a great story! Some of the hottest, sexiest scenes conveyed in non-explicit language. He does what all great authors do, let you imagine you are there and fantasize.... 5 Stars
Originally published in 1935, this exceptional book was fairly closely reproduced in the movie in 1951 with relatively minor changes, the most obvious being that the main male character, Charlie Allnutt, was (and is) written as a Cockney character, whereas Humphrey Bogart, who played the role, was unable to carry this accent off and the character was rewritten.
This book is a wonderfully exhilarating and inspiring story of faith, craftsmanship, relationship and adventure; a veritable roller-coaster ride.The characters are very consistent in their growth and change, and Rose, the missionary’s sister left alone in Central Africa when her brother dies, shows her true spunk, tenacity and passion previously hidden in the type of life she had led in the past.
The only example I can think of where the movie is, hands down, better than the book.Forrester can describe boats and nautical stuff better than anyone but he cannot write romance at all.
Throw in a pulse-racing adventure down an African river, plus one of the hottest sex scenes I've ever read (precisely for what it doesn't say), and you've got one hell of a novel on your hands.
It's rare to find this much going on in a novel, and that's precisely why The African Queen is one of the few great works of fiction that truly stands out among the garbage.
A fun, fast book though the ending was different from the movie version. I must have seen Katherine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart in the film 10 times & it was interesting to get to know the characters a bit more in depth.
I don't remember when I read this but it is so good. It's even better than the movie starring Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn
I've seen this movie, starring Kate Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart many times and I'm glad to finally have finally sat down to enjoy the book.The book was originally published in 1935 and is set during the First World War in Central Africa.
Allnut is also on his own and he allows Kate to take control and agrees to head downriver to try and sink a German cruiser that plies the Lake, hindering British efforts to push the Germans out of Africa.There are many excellent features to this story; the journey and all its trials and tribulations, the growing of Kate as a person, one who had been under the thumb of her family and brother for the first 30+ years of her life; the budding relationship between Allnutt and Kate, etc.
From BBC Radio 4 - Drama:Samantha Bond and Toby Jones star in a new dramatisation of C.S. Forester's classic World War 1 novel.Set in 1915, Rose Sayer's work as a missionary comes to an abrupt end when the village she and her brother, Reverend Samuel Sayer, live in is invaded by the German army.
He has offered to give Rose a lift in his boat to get away from the village and the Germans, so reluctantly goes along with her plan.
Paul Mendelson's dramatisation goes back to the novel re-instating Forester's original ending and giving Charlie his Cockney identity back!The African Queen By C.
Re-read
Before Horatio Hornblower, there were Charlie Allnut and Rose Sayer coaxing an elderly wheezing boat down a river in central Africa. Includes probably the 6 most thrilling running the rapids pages ever written.
I'd always loved the Horatio Hornblower books; separately, I loved the Bogart/Hepburn film The African Queen.
In their adventure, they bring out the best in each other.The film, however, has a rather different ending than the book.
The happy ending is unrealistic; however, perhaps because I saw the movie first, I have to say that I prefer it.
The end of Rose's quest in the book completely undercuts the spirit of the preceding voyage and Rose's own growth as a character.
But I wish she had gotten Hepburn's Rose's fate instead.

Fun stuff! Two very different Brits team up for a wartime adventure on an African river. The characters were quirky, a bit snarly, but lovable. I was rooting for them both the whole time, even when they were at each other's throats.
I do like the psychological play it did in my head, where we are caught up into the small world of these two people, and then the book thrusts you back out of the small world into the greater one, and we find that in a larger context maybe the great motivating reasons for war really make little sense.
I vaguely feel like the author was commenting on the war itself.
Does this fight, battle, war really make sense in the grand scheme of things?
This book is the little known source material from which the very famous movie was made. It's an adventure story of one man and one womans adventure in Africa during the beginning of the war. They attempt an impossible trip down a mostly uncharted river in deepest Africa. A good adventure story although I think the ending differs from the film. Not 100% sure of that as it's been a long time since I have seen it.
I have enjoyed this movie several times and could only visualize Katharine Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart as the characters in this novel. I found Ms. Hepburn’s portrayal in the movie much more likeable; she seemed overly bossy and controlling in the novel.
The 1st obstacle is running the guns at the fort now controlled by the German militia and then the famous rapids that are as exciting to read, as they are on the silver screen.As our characters develop in confidence, so too do we observe changes in their personality: Rose Sayer from a prim sister of a missionary, a woman who has be subservient to the men in her life, to a woman who enjoys love and lust and is an independent thinker; Charlie Allnutt, the drunken owner of the African Queen, develops into a man who is confident and no longer a victim to the demon drink when facing adversity.
A neat little story! I have always admired C.S. Forester's writing and the African Queen is no different, He has an ability to describe a complicated scene in a way that the reader can't picture the action as it happens and understand it (that is one of the reasons his "Hornblower" series is such a hit) and in this book his description down the river is fantastic reading. I do enjoy the subtleness between the two characters and there relationship nuances. I just find sometimes that the book breaks into stereotypes that ruin some of the character development! 3.75 Stars!
