https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43908.Shadow_of_a_Dark_Queen
R. Martin to finish the Game of Thrones series, you should check this one out.
And, this one is already finished (you can read all 30 in the series, or just a segment of the saga, it's up to you)Shadow of a Dark Queen starts a new saga with several old enemies.
People who have read the entire series up to this point will be able to enjoy this book with nostalia.
But, if you are reading this book without the benefit of all the series leading up to this, I think you can still enjoy without too much confusion.
No spoilers other than what can be inferred from the existence of four books and their titles.)The Serpentwar Saga is a series of four books set in Feist's Riftwar Universe.
Tut, tut, Shards copy editor and/or proofreader!Overall, The Serpentwar Saga is a fun read, but I did have a number of problems with it, first and foremost being the fact that much of the world was already established in previous series.
The fact that a character's life is told through different series annoys me as a reader, since I don't fancy having to read through all of Feist's works to get my closure.
This book seems to occur towards the tail-end of Feist's "rape-fantasy period" (a name my friends and I gave to those of his books written between 1988 and 1995 which all seemed to involve graphic rape and abuse of female characters) as the actual rape of the female character is not narrated and only the after-effects are described.
The narrative was otherwise quite interesting and the characters were fairly engaging; even the whoring made a certain amount of sense, given that the character was a grunt in the army during war-time.
I threw this and all the other Feist "rape-fantasy period" books I had in the garbage.
4.5 STARS
The more of Raymonds's Books I read the less I like them, to may mistakes, in this saga the first book he says the blacksmith was the first dead person Eric has every seen and then as the story continues Raymond writes that it was someone else.
There are many little mistakes like these in most of his books I dont understand why he nor his editors are picking them up I'm deslexic an i can pick them out.
I will continue to read his books because I enjoy the storyline and the amazing world he has created, but for how much longer I'm not sure.
It’s still an exciting story exploring new ground on the world of Midkemia and setting up for an epic conflict.As I've mentioned before in reviews I'm a sucker for the Dirty Dozen trope, or to give it its TV Tropes name: Ragtag Bunch of Misfits.
I liked the different stages of training – not just the standard boot camp, but later on a ship during transport and on the fly as the mission starts – and the sneaky cloak and dagger nature of the band's mission on Novindus.The Ragtag Bunch of Misfits only works by grace of the characters that it is comprised of and Feist creates a wonderful set of them.
I can never tire of this type of fantasy, the fantasy without multiple POVs, grey characters, and multiple subplots.
It's always refreshing to read fantasy with over the top world building.
These days, with the rise of the Grimdark subgenre, most fantasy works tend to be character driven.
The world building is top class!
The world of Midkemia is vast, both in geography, and in the range of cultures.
The author also does a good job of building up each character, even while moving the plot along at a rather fast pace.
But the world building makes it more than worth it.
The plot was relatively boring as long as it concerned the main characters (who were also boring), and the more interesting parts of the book involved minor characters with a completely different plot thread.
The "climax" at the ending wasn't even that compelling either.Apparently, I lot of people like this author/series, but for me, its like eating an undercooked hamburger patty from Walmart after eating a nice juicy steak.
I think the main storyline will continue, but I also am hopeful that it will be more interesting, and that there will be different characters than in the last.
This is man's book, with wars, fighting, battles, soldiers and so on.It features, Goodess of Death (lesser know as Khalisi, but this name is mentioned in passing), birth companions, Saaurs who reminds of Dothraki, bastards sons of nobles, dragons, magic, morbid jokes, rape, sailing, hanging, and lots, lots of camping and camp rutine.I gave this story 3 star review because endless camp rutine, which was time consuming. I will try next installment, I usually love boring stories.
This book was better than what I expected to be. This book was really readable that pulled me right in the minute I started reading even thought I figure out what was going to happened from the back cover. Great job, Feist in writing a fun and readable book for my return to the world of Midkemia.
This fantasy series is set in a world with multiple races and a threatening doom.
So far it sounds like many other sword and magic fantasies.
However the quality herein is in the story telling and it is quite good.
This is my first experience with the author and I will certainly be reading more of his work.My rating system (* = star)1* couldn't finish book2* finished book, but didn't like it3* a good read4* a very good read often with a novel concept or unusual plot5* an exceptionally good read, a prominent example of the genre
Breath instead of breathe, carnage instead of carriage, etc.) I liked the characters quite a bit, but the way in which the author wrote the story was confusing.
We jumped around a lot, from a woman sorcerer on a quest, to their captain, to a captain of a squadron, then back to Eric and Roo. I kind of wish we stayed with only Eric and Roo. I haven't read any previous works by this author so I was confused in several of these head-hopping parts and found it hard to keep track of all this story-switching.
A young man named Erik is growing up in a village, unacknowledged son of the noble.
An evil magic-using force on another continent is pushing an army to take over cities along a major river.
He and the squad of trained soldiers are hoping to delay that event and give the continent time to prepare for war.
If we just stayed on those lines all would be well, but the author insists on bringing in several different scattered characters who, we suppose, are from previous books.
There is a dozy young man with a magic sword, who does nothing at all for most of the books.
Drawing from characters from the previous books in the Riftwar Saga, there are some wonderful appearance of much loved characters that create continuity.
I love reading books where at the moment you start wondering what has happened to a set of characters or what they are doing, they make an appearance and change events unfolding around them.
Feist isn't afraid to kill off characters either, which always leaves me with knots in my stomach as to who will survive encounters with the enemy and who won't.
Superbly crafted, it had me cheering and worrying right alongside the characters and mourning the deaths of some along the way.
The Feistster writes books that are quick and easy to read.
This has been his weakest to date but it's still a decent read.
One thing that surprised me was there are a couple of stupid mistakes made in this book, the wrong person is named as dead and some words were repeated in error ( often often etc).
The first error is appalling and since this novel was first printed in 1997, some sucker at Harper Collins has had more than enough time to fix it.
Unless you want to have no idea who anyone is, then knock your socks off and read away.
I've had this in my to read pile for years.
It is a continuation of his other sagas and standalone books set in Midkemia.
That wouldn't be too bad if it was like (I remember) Magician was, but it isn't - it is far too often dull and full of mundane or pointless detail.
It is 560 pages and could have been a decent 300 page book.
Anyone read the follow ups?
I'm not really inclined to.Because this was so dull I did what I seldom do and started reading another novel at the same time.
An interesting start to another saga.
This book takes place some twenty years after the King's Buccaneer and Prince Nicholas' adventures.
This book actually reminded me a lot of the King's Buccaneer since they travel to Novindus just as Nicholas did.
In many ways, it is very much a continuation of both the King's Buccaneer as well as the events in a Darkness at Sethanon.
We get new main characters in this book however, by way of Erik von Darkmoor and Rupert "Roo" Avery.
Both are very interesting and hopefully the rest of the saga continues to follow these two.
I have so much time for Feist's world that I get lost in it. In this one the servant men are rising, they have a queen. There is quite a hidden twist in this instalment that I feel it is going to carry through to the rest and I'm excited about it! New characters are introduced as old favourites die, the pace is well done and the intrigue is superb.
Again dark forces are marshaling their power and new generation needs to step up and take challenges. Men who are supposed to be hanged get new chances to prove that life after hanging does make sense if you live like a french legionnaire. Full of stereotyped young and older men. Book is quite fast paced and finishes first phase of series quite nicely.
See the shark, watch the series jump it. Loved the Riftwar series although the last few were not as good. This series pushed me away from his work as I felt these books were more of an attempt to capitalize on the first series. Stopped reading feist after this one.
Easily one of the best fantasy series ever written. I have followed Pug, Tomas, and Jimmy the Hand through continued heroic deeds. With each new book Saga, Feist wraps his tale into the original history of his world.
One of my favorite of the new stories of Mikedemia, especially with Erik, and how Feist describes in a sirreal way how the Serpent Queen comes to be and in the later books how it's revealed she is actually possesssed by another.
Zeer zwak boek. Flinterdun verhaal. En bij momenten saai. Jammer. Hopelijk is het vervolg een stuk beter.
DNFI don't appreciate stories that are driven by rape. Especially when the rape doesn't allow the woman to grow and overcome, but propels two men to become heroes. Meh. Not my thing.
Feist is great at picking out new characters to focus on in the midst of characters we already know.
Too long ago to remember, but I always LOVED Feist.
Der junge Adlige Erik von Darkmoor und sein Freund Roo geraten unfreiwillig in den Krieg mit den Reptilienwesen und befinden sich plötzlich im Herzen einer mörderischen Schlacht ...Mein Fazit:Zum Cover:Hier ist das Cover definitiv schuld, dass ich dieses Buch bzw.
Ich finde die Schlangenwesen total spannend und sie trieben mich immer wieder dazu an, nur noch einen kurzen Moment lesen zu wollen, aber aus dem kurzen Moment wurde dann doch etwas mehr.
August 2018Leider störte mich hier ein wenig die Länge der Kapitel, sie sind wirklich sehr lang und auch wenn das Buch wirklich spannend ist, fand ich das wirklich störend.
Das Buch ist meine erste Geschichte des Autors und ich bin absolut begeistert, denn es war wirklich wunderbar.Wie schon im Klappentext ersichtlich, gerät Erik unglücklicherweise in den Krieg mit diesen schlangenartigen Wesen und muss sich nun behaupten.Die Handlung fand ich sehr spannend, denn schon von Beginn war ich von dieser gefesselt.
Ich fand die Idee, dass Erik zwar als Schmied arbeitet, aber sich auch ganz gut mit Pferden ganz auskennt, richtig großartig und auch vom Autor so richtig detailliert beschrieben.
Es gibt übrigens eine Menge Charaktere und so einige Ortswechsel, womit ich aber kein Problem hatte, denn der Autor macht das sehr geschickt.Das Cover gefällt mir gut.
Jedoch hat mich irgendetwas gewurmt und es hat einige Zeit gedauert, dass ich mich dazu entschlossen habe mich für eine Rezension zu entscheiden.Auch durch die vielen Lobs im Netz an den Autor, hatte ich gewisse Erwartungen an das Buch und war sehr enttäuscht als der Prolog begann.
Die Spannung stieg irgendwie nicht an und ich muss ganz ehrlich sagen, dass da der Prolog im Gegensatz um einiges besser war.Ich hab jetzt viel gemeckert und möchte auch noch etwas gutes los werden.Mir hat es extrem gut gefallen, dass der Autor mal etwas anders gemacht hat.
Isn't the aim in writing for the plot to feel less contrived, not more?
This is the sixth Feist book I've read (I'm not including the Empire trilogy as those were written by Janny Wurts) and the same problems abound – a large cast of characters that are largely undeveloped, elements of plot that feel contrived or rely on deus-ex-machina (Feist is like the king of deus-ex-machina plot endings), no further development of the influence the Riftwar should have had on Midkemia, and a pitiful representation of women.
I get that Feist wanted to write stories for boys but I can't help but feel that whenever women do come into his plots they are comical cardboard cutouts of no real woman ever.
