https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6436732-fearless
The book has challenged me to take fear on with the power of God’s presenceIf you are a Christian feeling the brunt of life–death, recession, disappointment, whatever–and are afraid, this is a must-read, an investment to a better future.
Lacado points out that there is a fine line between prudence and paranoia–Use judgment and common sense in practical and spiritual choices, but don’t get drowned while contemplating on all the things that could go wrong.With his usual mastery of storytelling, Lucado weaves lives of people into practical lessons of coping with fear.
Throughout the book, he comes back to these two points in different ways.
Max Lucado says we can fight fear, and learn to live without its life-draining presence, as we learn to trust in Christ.
His newest book, Fearless, examines fear and how we can combat it.
Starting with the nature of fear, he deals chapter by chapter with a wide variety of fears we commonly face, including significance, parenting, violence, and our relationship with God. In his trademark style of wisdom, compassion, & hope, Maxwell points us beyond our fears to Christ: "It's not the absence of storms that sets us apart.
All of us have to face fear.
I had never read a Max Lucado book before Fearless.
Not that I was unfamiliar with his name; it’s hard to recall a Christian home I entered during childhood that didn’t have at least one of his books on a shelf.
It read like Chicken Soup for the Christian Soul, with the obligatory inspirational stories and pithy quotes—but marinaded in Bible verses.
While theological, Fearless felt like a surface level self-help tome rather than a meaty and intellectually challenging work of profundity.
Max Lucado uses Bible verses and stories to show us that as long as we fear God, we don't need to fear anything else.
0inShare"We fear being sued, finishing last, going broke; we fear the mole on the back, the new kid on the block, the sound of the clock as it ticks us closer to the grave," writes Max Lucado in his latest book "Fearless."Whether rational or irrational, we live in a world and a time in history that startles and alarms us.
Christ's language throughout the Gospels is seasoned with phrases like "don't be afraid" and "take courage."He often told followers, "I tell you not to worry," "Do not fear," and "Don't let your hearts be troubled."Lucado points out that Jesus even told the crippled man brought to him by friends, "Take courage, son; your sins are forgiven."At first glance, this "encouragement" is confusing.
For the first time since the end of the Second World War, parents expect that life for the next generation will be worse than it was for them.” (page 177)“Fearless” has got to be the best book Lucado has written in years!
As I read the book, I found myself getting more and more excited about how this book could make a difference in the lives of people who are hindered by their fears.“Fearless” is being released TODAY!
If you are a fan of Max Lucado or are someone who recognizes that fear affects your life, I highly recommend this book!
Fear is something I struggle with, you name it I am sure I had some fear over it.God makes it clear that if we as Christians are going to live a life of faith, we need to trust and step out into the unknown.
Satan likes to prey on our fears while making things seem impossible, even to God. In this well written, powerful book Max tackles fears all of us struggle with.
What a powerful image of the Christian walk!Powerful stories and parables woven through out this book made the powerful God lessons dance off the page.
Envision a day, just one day, where you could trust more and fear less.”I’ve never read a Christian book, better yet ANY religious book, besides the Bible.
So when I read the words “Religion/Christian Life” as the category for Fearless by Max Lucado… I must admit I was a bit hesitant.
After reading Fearless I have a better outlook on what fear is, what it leads to and how to replace fear with faith.
Everyday, we hold back in life because of fear.
Max Lucado explains how our everyday fears can lead to the worse if we allow them to eat us up.
At one of the sessions I heard about how bloggers can get free books from publishers in return for reviews.
I knew this company published Christian books so I contacted them and was approved to do reviews.
However, when I checked in to request a book, the only one available to me was Fearless by Max Lucado, a non-fiction book.
As I read Fearless, I realized I was feeling fear.
Lucado writes, "...fear is unwilling to share the heart with happiness.
At that moment, my fear and feelings of being out of control went away.
Kind of like looking at everything overall and just evaluating fear itself and ways to overcome it.
Instead, what I found was a very in-depth look at all the different kinds of fear, and doubt, that Christians face in today's society.
In true Max style, he reminds us that God is bigger than any fears and doubts we have.
In reading this book, suddenly you are reminded just how puny your fears are and just how unlimited God is.
And equally comforting came the emphasis that God was plenty capable of not only dealing with our fears about, well, everything and anything, but that He has the power to help us overcome them.
"Fearless," by Max Lucado, offers practical solutions and Scripture to life's challenges.
This wonderful book looks at our fears over children, money, the unknown, life, and death.
He lists Scripture with each situation to help underscore the fact that God is with us ALL the time.
It helped me look practically at the fears that surround me and offered help and hope that they can be overcome.
God ALWAYS sends messages our way to help us live our lives fully and without fear.
This is definitely a book to keep on your shelf as a constant reminder and tool to help you lead a "Fearless" life.
You turn on the television, pick up the paper or answer you phone and all you see, hear or read about something that can cause fear to your life.Max has written a book that outlines how to live life without fear.
Great Bible principles outlines his wonderful illustrations of stories makes this an easy read for most, however it will also challenge hardcore Bible student.Max always using Jesus as the main attraction in his writing makes you ponder about the awesome person He is.
I believe a non-believer could read this book and it would have him seeking more about Jesus.The discussion guide, at the end of the book uses scriptures to help people to conquer fear.
And gives suggestions for ways to overcome these fears by trusting in God and doing all we can do and realizing He is the only one who can really control everything.I really enjoyed this book.
Especially the chapter on not being liked and why does it really matter what other people think when God's the one who created you and he doesn't make mistakes.
And this is another great book from Lucado, I'm glad I was given the chance to read it and hope that other people pick it up as soon as it hits the shelves today.
Because you really don't have to fear anything but God. 5 stars.
This book provides an answer for the worries of daily life, and Max Lucado writes with a distinctive voice: funny in some places, serious in others, and comforting throughout.
However, in pretty much all aspects of life except this one, this book can be (and is) a great source of comfort.It takes only a few minutes to read this book, and Lucado draws on his own family history, on a Biblical parable, and on several verses of comfort from the Old and New Testaments.
From constant worrying to losing a child and into an acrobatic flight with training for use of an ejector seat, Max Lucado writes with a deep comprehension of all fears humans face. He has an excellent grasp of psychology, uses vivid analogies and just the right level of humour. This is only the third book I have given a five star rating. It’s what I save my five stars for. Ican’t recommend this bookhighly enough. Readit. Enjoy it. And learn. My next Max Lucado bookis ready and waiting.
This book was amazing! I was in the progress of writing my full review for it but stopped half-way and left it sitting in my draft unfinished. Will definitely post my complete thought about this book when I get the chance to finish it. But I hope my 5-star rating is enough to encourage you to read this inspiring book! :D
It had been a while since I cracked a Lucado book.
Glad I did, and reminded me why I used to read his stuff so often a decade or more ago.
'Fearless' was a good read-- encouraging, insightful, poetic, and helpful.
God's been teaching me a lot about fearlessness, boldness, and how to maintain a mindset of victorious courage in the face of failures, sicknesses, deaths, hopelessness, and apathy.
He's taking me back to when I walked completely in God confidence ("God-fidence"?
lol).
I recommend this book.
It's a bit cutesy or quaint in parts, but mostly full of clever language and wise counsel.
If you suffer from anxiety or going through a rough time, or can't make a decision on something because of fear of making the wrong choice(as I was) this is a pretty good book to read.
Max Lucado helps us understand how God is working for us, how to learn to trust Him, and give Him our fears and worries, how to ask Him to help us.I found the book to be helpful to me and my situation, i've also shared and quoted from this book when friends and family needed some encouragement in their own storms.Very insightful, well written and great story telling.
Sticks with what is in scripture, study guide at the back of the book.
Living in a broken world with imperfect people its no wonder people are filled with such anxiety and fear.
Fear robs us of our wonder of creation and the joy of exploring it.
Fear keeps us from truly living.
In "Fearless" Max Lucado tackles 14 different topics that we fear.
While some of these topics ex: "Fear of violence" , "Fear of Coming Winter", "Fear of Worst Case Scenario" could be combined into one category; Max Lucado does explore fears that are not only common but perhaps are prevalent.
While Fearless isn't theologically deep, it is very needed and completely relevant.
A good beginning and ending, I'm not sure about everything in between. It feels draggy to read somehow but the contents are real.
About Fearless:Seeking to calm a world increasingly plagued by fear and anxiety, Max Lucado tackles the subject of fear with this inspirational title, identifying common fears of the day, and offering spiritual advice for overcoming our fears.The Review:As someone who has suffered from anxiety and fear most of my life, I often seek out books on the subject.
Lucado then illustrated the fear with stories either from his own life or from the lives of others, went on to tie it to a bible story, and then to the scriptures that had Christ saying in one form or another “Don’t Fear” “God will Provide.”Next Chapter?
I feel like this book is probably great for people who have a few, vague fears from time to time.
Basically, Fearless addressed approximately ten different fears you might have in a very shallow way.
But he rarely addressed HOW to be unafraid.
If you feel anxious about money from time to time, this book is going to help you understand how to deal with that.
If you've been jobless for three years and are very quickly facing homelessness, this book probably isn't going to have anything to say that you haven't already told yourself a million times before.My suggestion: Instead of reading this book read the Bible and go to Sunday School class.
Short review: The basic format was a chapter for a specific type of fear.
I agree that the topic is relevant, I know many people that seem to fear everything.
Lucado was biblical and gave good relevant stories to illustrate his point, but the point was basically the same with every chapter that you just need to trust God more.There are other books on fear that I think are better so I would not particularly recommend this one.
A better book is Rhett Smith's The Anxious Christian (my review http://bookwi.se/anxious-christian/ )I posted a longer review on my blog at http://bookwi.se/fearless-by-max-lucado/
Why do we fear?“Fear may fill our world, but it doesn’t have to fill our hearts.
Just don’t invite it in for dinner, and for heaven’s sake don’t offer it a bed for the night.” Why do we fear?
“Why are you fearful, O you of little faith?” (Matt.
This book really explains why we don’t need to be fearful.
If you have faith, what is there to fear?
So basically that passage explains to us as readers and people in this world, we don’t need to fear when you have faith.
Fearless is about living out life without fear and trusting in God to help take those fears away. Each chapter reviews a common fear and Lucado dissects it, then tells us how to live with it and eventually banish it. I love the cover of the novel and, while, Lucado does not go over any specific moments of "aha" for me, the book did remind me that there is much in this life that I cannot control and for those things, I need to let go and give them up to God.
We did this book in a women's Bible study setting and it was fabulous. Max Lucado is a wonderful author with a great sense of humor. I will read this book again and savor it slowly. When doing the study we had to read three chapters a week so it was a bit rushed. This was one of those books that has changed my life.
Lucado has a way of writing about God and the life of faith that speaks to both the layperson and the high church theologian that helps the reader to immerse in the mystery and the revealed; making great points, asking thought provoking questions while entertaining and challenging the reader to find relevant content to apply to everyday life. Always a joy to read Lucado.
I really like the way this guy thinks. Great examples of life in comparison to the bible and plenty of food for thought. Very inspirational and he has great advice on how to handle life's twist and turns. None of that mooshy-gooshy-over the top-religious stuff some power pastors try to pull on you.
Once again love Lucado; does an awesome job of looking at just about every imaginable fear that affects us today and addresses them in a simple yet profound way that is not only easy to read; easy to relate but Biblically based as well. Would recommend to anyone.
I did not care for this book very much. I didn't like that he used about 4 different versions of the Bible, and 3 of them I have never heard of. He also doesn't incorporate God and the Bible very much in this book.
