https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/572626.Separate_Beds
Two very emotional books that just ripped me apart.For me, Separate beds did not have a happy ending.I hated Clay.I never ever ever wanted him to be happy.I do not care if he realized he loved Cat in the end.
Because let me repeat myself .He.Is.A.JERK!!!!So aside the fact that, no, he does not love this woman and yes his mother was right-if he wanted to marry her he would have asked before all of this, we move on and start with the actual plot-him and the heroine.The hero and heroine are now married.He really has no patience for her.Sure, she is not full of confidence.
Then without moving a muscle, he said, "You know what I want, Catherine."For an oldie, this is a fantastic book that pulls the feels right out of you!
The 80's are the backdrop here, things like gathered shoulders on dresses with the infamous shoulder pads underneath, Charlie perfume, turned up collars...the list goes on and on and I loved every single thing because even if I don't remember actually doing those things or wearing those things myself, I remember growing up and seeing it.Catherine and Clay were quite fantastic for each other but never really figured it out till much later.
Of course it was dated. It is 30 years old. Panty hose, ruffled shirts for men, cinnamon tuxedos, Charlie perfume ... LOL, but I did enjoy it. Catherine annoyed me a bit but I suppose she had to stand her ground. Clay. Usually love an Ass but he was nice enough. Loved his family. Things have a way of becoming clearer with time. It lends perspective.  "Up yours, Clay Forrester!" Towards the end of the book I just wanted them to get over themselves and sort it all out. "Hearts and flowers."  "You'
Of course it was dated. It is 30 years old. Panty hose, ruffled shirts for men, cinnamon tuxedos, Charlie perfume ... LOL, but I did enjoy it. Catherine annoyed me a bit but I suppose she had to stand her ground. Clay. Usually love an Ass but he was nice enough. Loved his family.
  Things have a way of becoming clearer with time. It lends perspective.

  "Up yours, Clay Forrester!"
Towards the end of the book I just wanted them to get over themselves and sort it all out.
  "Hearts and flowers."

  "You're just too good to be true ...."
I read this book when I was a teen and fell in love with the marriage of convenience trope.
Marriage of convenience, one night stand, oops a baby, we must live together and pretend to be in love, oops we're falling in love, yikes I don't wanna fall in love...plus an evil ex-girlfriend and a rotten father -- this book has everything I love to read AND write about.
Just thinking about the book I can see how it influenced my writing over the years and it's been forever since I've read it!Warning - it's totally immersed in the 80s with the fashion, lingo, etc.
And she could be a mean and standoffish bitch when she got in the mood.The poor H tried again and again but it was as good as butting his head against a mortar wall.He was snobbish and selfish to begin with, but never a real d-bag.
Living with the cold h who withheld both affection and sex for almost a year, I just couldn’t blame him for finally giving up.
Of course, he is a spineless twit who didn't know his own heart and mind till the end – the last chapter kind of end!Like I said these were some real foolish, mixed up people!
Claire never grew up with love or affection but instead had a father who belittled her and called her horrible names.
Clay, on the other hand,not only grew up wealthy but with the most loving parents.
Clay tries desperately to help her, show her affection and get affection in return but gets frustrated that Catherine keeps everything bottled inside.
What he doesn't know is that Catherine loves Clay but she can't give herself to him when Clay doesn't love her in return.
Nonetheless, I still enjoyed the story and I do plan to read more books by Spencer.
I'll be perfectly clear I love LS's novels, not everyone of course but the majority of them but this one is definitely way down there.
(view spoiler)[Clay’s behaviour was in the major league.
Clay is forced to marry a cold fish (he doesn’t bother to find out why Catherine is the way she is), she’s pregnant from their one night stand but that’s okay his ex is too willing and waiting in the wings so he leaves Catherine to go find himself with his ex and suddenly Catherine is the ex (saw that coming) but gradually Clays relationship with his ex deteriorates (saw that coming to) and he begins to take notice of how Catherine has changed without him and he doesn't want his girlfriend anymore, he wants Catherine and his baby and blow me down Catherine takes him back (saw that coming too).
(hide spoiler)]Ugh I could spit on these themes.
Setelah itu Clay bisa lega kembali ke sisi Jill Magnusson, pacarnya selama ini.Namun seiring waktu pernikahan mereka, ternyata Cat membangun tembok yang amat sangat tinggi terhadap Clay, terutama dikarenakan Cat itu merasa minder, terlalu mandiri, curigaan dan karena latar belakang mereka yang berbeda bumi dan langit dimana Cat tidak pernah mendapatkan kasih sayang dari ortu nya, sedangkan Clay selalu berkelimpahan curahan kasih sayang dari keluarganya.
Di satu pihak, lama kelamaan Clay juga bosan dengan sikap dingin Cat, yang mengakibatkan Clay juga mulai merasa sensitif terutama ketika ibunya dan Cat sudah mempersiapkan pesta kelulusan Clay tanpa sepengetahuan Clay.Puncaknya, pada pesta itu, Jill (mantan pacar Clay) menyatakan terang-terangan untuk meminta Clay kembali.
I really enjoyed this book up until the last few chapters. Just a bit too much back and forth with the Catherine and her indecisiveness on her feelings for Clay. I hated Clay in the beginning and then he just overwhelmed with his change of heart. They both frustrated me at times, but when their emotions were raw and they just let themselves feel, it was awesome! A strong, well-written, lovely romance with a sweet HEA.
Oldie but goodie! Excited to see if I love this as much the second time around...
This was so boring I nearly died. I got to the last chapter and I just couldn't go on anymore. What a waste of time!
3  stars. Good womens fiction story, a bit of a downer. Unlikeable heroine. Ending was happy but should have been better.STORY BRIEF:Catherine’s father was an abusive drunk. Her mother was weak. Clay’s parents were wealthy and loving. Clay and Catherine had a blind date. They saw each other only one night and she got pregnant. For interesting reasons, they agree on a marriage of convenience and to divorce after the baby is born.OPINION:Most of the book was not fun. But at the end I thought ok, I
Good womens fiction story, a bit of a downer.
Ending was happy but should have been better.STORY BRIEF:Catherine’s father was an abusive drunk.
She wouldn’t have sex with him unless he truly loved her.
But I wanted her to have sex with him because she loved him.
I didn’t see the couple resolve their issues or spend enjoyable time together.One thing I liked about Catherine.
She only wanted enough to care for the baby.
I was also unhappy that Catherine drank wine several times while pregnant.
Catherine wanted the best for her baby so this didn’t fit.Some reviewers did not like Clay’s actions.
This was a great read. All the characters were likable and real. My only complaint is the ending was a bit too rushed. I would've like to see more happiness between the H/h. Overall a sweet read from back in the day.
LOVE IT!! It was my favorite of all her books. So well written, I felt like I was apart of the story.I just love this one. Just reread it again and again I found myself so drawn into the story that I didn't want to do anything else until I finished it. It makes me laugh and cry at all the right spots. I just hate putting it down.
I've read this one a few times... one of my all-time faves. Thought I'd read it again. Lovin' it!!!
This could have been a bit of a problem, because while she likes to listen to books on tape, I usually can't stand listening to someone talk at me for multiple hours at a time.
I could read to her, because I like reading aloud and can feel more free to comment that way, and she could have a book read to her, which helps the drive go faster.
Fabulous.What helped even more, however, was that this had to be one of the crappiest books I have ever laid eyes on.
Weaklings and fools!"Page 5, for fuck's sake, out of 392.
Tasty and compulsive hearts and flowers.I was awake until 2 am last night because I had to know how it ended, couldn't stop reading!The plot: Clay (drooling) and Catherine have a one night stand, and she gets pregnant.
Cathy was centred, self sobered and he became a bunch of nerves, unsure of his feelings when it had been obvious throughout all the book that he felt something for Cat.It kept me hanging until the very end!Anyway, maybe it took too long, but I was so hooked I couldn't stop reading, and that only means the book is engaging.Well done Mrs. Spencer, maybe the best I've read by you so far!
A drunken one-night-stand leaves Catherine Anderson pregnant.
Catherine agrees to his offer of a marriage of convenience.
As the weeks go by and they settle into their new home, Clay tries to make the best of their marriage.
There are also pages of descriptions of clothing, homes, etc., that were not needed.Clay tries to make the best of their situation, but Catherine continually pushing him away really frustrated me.
Finally, the hero makes a really bad move that made me want to smack him.
I didn't buy that the heroine would want him back after that situation.
Sometimes I find myself rating a book higher than I would on hindsight simply because all the author's other books have been so wonderful.
This is probably the case here.
I have recently been re-reading some of my older books and when I came across this one I felt no desire to re-read it.
Probably.
I remember I kept rooting for the h&h and that when the HEA came I still had an ache in my heart.
Now that I am older I can appreciate Lady Danielle “The Book Huntress” comment, ‘I just wanted to shake them.’ Yes!
I read this book when it first came out. Loved it then and love it now. There are stories that linger in your heart and this is one of them. It felt to read it again. I wish LaVyrle Spencer would come out of retirement.
I read it a few years ago and don't remember much things. But I remember that I loved the book.
A one person to call our own.Sometime there are certain hollowness, certain depths where lurk this hunger to be loved, I totally understood Catherine and I tried to understand Clay too.
But thank God she didn't say much about cars and riding them as masculine.Though I love Catherine because she has so much of love in her, for her daughter, for his mother.
Good thing I read Morning Glory first.
Coz after trying the second book I'm sure I won't be coming back to her.One more time to the place where there is love and ppl stay together for the good & the bad.
Wonderful!
Dalam suatu kencan buta, Clay dan Cat kebablasan.
Ayah Cat menuntut dan meminta pertanggungjawaban Clay.
Cat Anderson sebenarnya tidak meminta pertanggung jawaban Clay sejauh itu, cukup Clay mengetahuinya.
Tetapi desakan ayah Cat, yang penjudi, pemabuk gila harta berusaha memeras keluarga Forrester dengan berbagai ancamannya.
Clay Forrester, mahasiswa hukum, dari keluarga terpandang bersedia bertanggung jawab hingga Cat melahirkan.Tidak mudah bagi keduanya yang sebenarnya asing untuk hidup bersama.
Apalagi dengan sikap Cat yang menutup diri, berusaha tegar dan mandiri, yang berasal dari keluarga yang miskin kasih sayang dan materi, malahan ayahnya lebih banyak melakukan kdrt baik psikis maupun fisik.
Di lain pihak, Clay sebenarnya pribadi yang hangat dari keluarga yang harmonis.
Wonderful story from a master storyteller.
Written in 1980th, the story is somewhat dated but the human aspect of it shines with realism.
Catherine is poor, proud, intense university student who had a very difficult childhood with an alcoholic abusive father and distant mother.
Clay is her total opposite: easy going, affectionate rich law student who came from a family where love and affection is given freely.
Their one-night stand ended up in pregnancy.
But this is not your typical accidental pregnancy, forced marriage situation.
The real world intrudes again and again as two flawed human beings have to face heart-breaking obstacles, and their own insecurities and fears, in the course of following their hearts.
It was not what I expected but not bad at all. I enjoyed reading it quite a bit. I had just one small problem - in the beginning there wasn't a year and a city. We have this marriage, ruined reputation, professions relaying on high moral and in the same time cars and dishwashers and new times. Everything suggests historical romance it's not.  And the loss of epilogue, I like to know where the story is going.Despite those stuff - it was one perfect read for the rainy day.
I read this book when I was just a teenager and thought about it periodically through the years. It stayed with me. Re-reading it all these years later really had a profound effect on me. I found it not only evoking feelings of nostalgia but genuinely enjoying myself on a sort of trip down memory lane. Definitely worth another go. I highly enjoyed it and was thoroughly entertained.
You know, I really like LaVayrle Spencer's writing, but this one was just way too draining. Not to mention the heroine is a real bitch, maturing and redeeming herself much too far into the tale for me to give a damn.
Not my favorite by this author, because the main couple were estranged too much. Still good, though. It's set about 30 years ago, so it's dated -- but it's interesting, recalling how things were in times of recent past. See Mo's review for images of Charlie perfume commercial, etc.
I think my 20 years older self reads a little more critically and find that I can't just fit characters in a 'she's awesome' or 'he's an ass' slot when the author has made them much more than that.Catherine Anderson is a young college student who lives in an incredibly dysfunctional and abusive family situation.
Clays gets pressure from his parents to make things right, Catherine is determined to thwart her father's plans.
But things don't quite work out the way they plan.In my earlier reading of this book, I was squarely on Catherine's side.
Clay was largely just said jerk in my head.But on this reading, I felt the nuances in their characters and their situations more keenly.
