https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133411.Gods_Graves_and_Scholars
Non potevo dire altro, ero rimasto folgorato (sulla strada che non credo andasse a Damasco) dalla storia di Heinrich Schliemann.la celebre foto della moglie di Schliemann, Sofia, che indossa una parte dei gioielli del tesoro di PriamoE questo libro di Ceram, un autentico classico, lo divenne anche per me, un classico, voglio dire.
Questo era il suo sapere, la sua preparazione, la sua ampiezza d’analisi.Oltre Schliemann e la ‘sua’ Troia, partendo da Winkelmann, dalla scoperta di Pompei ed Ercolano, si passa a Vivant Denon, Champollion, Belzoni, eccetera.Però, dopo Schliemann, il mio secondo eroe diventò Howard Carter, perché oltre la maschera di Agamennone, che mi lasciò a bocca aperta anche qualche anno più tardi quando la vidi per la prima volta, cosa c’è di più affascinante e strabiliante di Tutankhamon?!
”Il libro dovrebbe soddisfare la curiosità di molti lettori, che sentono come queste cose antiche, non sono anticaglie, ma fanno parte di noi stessi; fanno parte della nostra storia, perché sono le vicende della società umana alla quale apparteniamo; allo stesso modo che fan parte della nostra storia individuale e della nostra personalità le vicende del nostro bisnonno, del nostro nonno, di nostro padre.”“Che ci resta da dire?Che si continuerà a scavare in tutto il mondo, perché occorre conoscere bene i cinquemila anni passati per poter sopportare i prossimi cento con una vera distensione e tranquillità.”3.5 Attraverso una narrazione più aneddotica che scientifica Ceram descrive la scoperta di antiche civiltà da parte dei primi “archeologi”.
Рядко срещани са основополагащите книги, написани на разбираем за непросветения, език. Точно те ни избавят от мистерията на незнанието и ни помагат да виждаме и разбираме едни чудни светове. Книга, която ще препрочитам отново и отново.
originale 1949.Codice ISBN: 978-8806227579Numero pagine: 509.Genere: saggio storico.Prezzo: 14,45 €Le mie opinioni: Civiltà sepolte, il romanzo dell'archeologia, è il libro più letto sull'argomento.
l'archeologia ha fatto molti passi in avanti negli scorsi decenni...) è un libro molto completo ed utile.Questo libro permette in modo non scientifico (il linguaggio usato è fruibile a tutti) una vasta conoscenza sulle civiltà antiche, sepolte, su come sono state ritrovate e sull'importanza dell'archeologia.
Not that these amateurs are poorly educated--he reiterates time and again their brilliance and dedication to learning about the cultures they studied.
But in many cases, these impressive educations were self-wrought.
It is, in fact, rather surprising that Ceram is a German, as he clearly relishes the self-made man/underdog stories that are so strongly identified with the American dream.
It is not surprising, however, that Ceram was employed as a journalist--he does not write in an esoteric style, but with all the joie de vivre of a man who loves his job and wants others to share in his enjoyment.
I have had a copy of my own for about twenty years now and dip back every now and then.This is where my fascination with ancient worlds began, and flowed into reading first of all 'The Trojan War'and 'Tales of Ulysses', Greek myths and legends in multiple versions capped by Robert Graves and ultimately Homer.
For years I dreamt of visiting the ancient sites of Egypt - off my list now because of civil unrest and violence.
I know that Ceram's heroes are anathema to contemporary archaeology because of their exploitative, imperialist approach, no respect for the people, cultures or governments of the places they discovered and looted.
Lots of great anecdotes (especially anything about Petrie and Schliemann). My favorite adage, and one that comforted me during the worst thunderstorm I've ever flown through coming into Missoula one summer, is "An easy death in early youth is the sweetest boon available to mankind." Quite.
Unforgettable gateway through archeology as it have happened. Adventures tribute to the past. In the style of the novel we get: History of Troy (Mycenaean Greek), Crete (Minoan Greek), Egypt (525BC taken by Persians and end of Civilization) & Sumer Civilization are our inheritance (forefathers of European Civilization).There was Phoenicia and Assyria, Babylon know by Sumerians as “Warlocks”. Because of knowledge of these ancient civilizations we know that Bible is historically accurate. But there is knowledge of Aztecs and Mayans that help us understand and compare dates to widen our understanding of the world.
For those interested in Archaeology, this volume is a treasure.It abounds in truly fascinating and factual accounts of discoveries and expeditions, spanning the centuries. We meet remarkable characters, and share their sense of purpose and excitement of discovery.It's a lengthy volume, but highly readable from cover to cover. Its contents have made a lasting impression on me.Highly recommended.
Ceram tends to accept the firsthand accounts of these European archaeologists without any critique, and systematically ignores the experiences of the people who actually live in the regions being excavated.
I'm not qualified to give an opinion on the archaeological validity of the text, but here is a critical review by Pál Kelemen, an actual archaeologist.Throughout, I had a feeling that the author seemed to be somewhat racist, but I chalked it up to the fact that the book was originally written in the '40s, and that's just how Europeans were at the time.
An absolutely fantastic book! This book would get people as excited about archaeology as the Indiana Jones movies! Too bad "real" (i.e. modern) archaeology is more like sifting through a sandbox with a toothbrush than like Ceram's excited amateurs discovering lost empires and fantastic Lovecraftian worlds...
This guy denies that there's any connection between ancient aliens and the Pyramids but I've seen the X-Files and I know what's going on
This book is pretty much a whole college course on the history of Archaeology. Greatly informative, filled with action and adventure, and all true!
echt wow!Conclusie: - de meeste en grootste ontdekkingen werden niet gedaan door beroepsmatige archeologen maar door dilettanten (behalve dan sir Arthur Evans die Knossos ontdekte).
Conclusie: ga ervoor als je ergens door gepassioneerd bent - we weten nog enorm weinig over de culturen die voor de Maya's en Azeteken in die gebieden leefden (Tolteken, Olmeken, Zapoteken, ...) - Hoewel ik mij jaren in het Oude Egypte heb verdiept, heb ik dankzij dit boek ontdekt hoe boeiend en fascinerend de culturen zijn die bloeiden (en verdwenen) in het Tweestromenland.Dit boek heeft mijn interesse in geschiedenis een boost gegeven en is voor mij een springplank naar nog zoveel andere culturen en beschavingen.Wow, echt een inspirerend boek dat ik iedereen die wat interesse in geschiedenis heeft kan aanraden!
Auténtica "novela de la arqueología", es el ejemplo que cualquier escritor científico debería seguir para hacer una obra amena, divulgativa y rigurosa. Se aprende muchísimo con su lectura. Absolutamente recomendable.
Interesting, fascinating and surprisingly easy read about great scholars and important discoveries & excavations. This book is a mind blowing journey back in time.
читал в детстве, конечно, и в силу этого долго болел археологией. надо бы, наверное, не в переводе перечитать, но не сейчас
best gila.
Якщо вас колись хоч трішки цікавила археологія;ви захоплювались історією стародавнього світу, міфами та легендами, що її оповивають;хочете дізнатись, як було відкопано Трою, Помпеї, скарби Єгипту та Вавилону, розкрито таємниці майя, а жадібність і жага золота призвели до знищення цілої цивілізації ацтеків;або вам просто цікаві пригоди Індіани Джонса та Лари Крофт,тоді ця науково-популярна книга однозначно для вас 😉
Ačkoli toho o dávné historii dnes víme mnohem více, než v době vydání této knihy, příběhy průkopníků na poli archeologie zůstávají stále stejně lákavé a neuvěřitelné. A tato kniha je dokáže převyprávět opravdu mistrovsky.
The chapter on Mesopotamia alone is worth the price of the book, what wonderful read! I couldn't put it down
A terrific introductory look at archeology for those wanting to explore other epochs and achievements in various societies that once existed pre-dating even Greece and Egypt’s storied antiquity.
The accounts of laymen, adventurers, scholars and sometimes a combination of some or or all of these men's qualities mentioned is intriguing.
“Gods, Graves and Scholars” left me wanting to know more about these men who were willing to act out of compulsion , desire, and sometimes rank disregard and recklessness for their own safety, so that they might satiate their own thirst for knowledge.
Their accounts are told with a deft touch by the author which made for both an enjoyable and edifying diversion.
I just loved this fascinating history of archaeology from Schliemen's finds in Egypt to those of others in Mexico, Peru and more.
Great book!!
I read it several times just BECAUSE!what a fabulous fabulous book!!
I read this for my archeology class at Northfield Mount Hermon in my Junior year in 1973-74.
Now I can elucidate on that further - what a fantastic and exciting book.
It was so fascinating to read about all those great archeological digs and what was found and, at the time, interpreted as such!
The book absolutely galvanized my fascination with the subject and I spent years and years loving it...
I read this book when I ws 10 - 12 yo. I loved it and still love it for the inspiration to explore the world it gave me. I lived in a tiny town of 1200 or so that did not even have a library. I borrowed books from my parents's friends, with the result that I read a lot of Gene Stratton Porter and other authors popular with my mother's generation. It makes the romance of archaeology seem possible for anyone. It brings the past to life in glowing color.
My favorite thing in this book has always been the account of Edward Herbert Thompson's discovery of Chichen-Itza. It's worth reading just for the atmosphere! Thompson dredged the sacred well and, in a diving suit, went down into the dark waters. C. W. Ceram is a pen name for Kurt Marek. The actual title correctly has a comma before and.
I used to want to be an Egyptologist when I was younger, until I hit my teens and was all about poetry and Jane Austen. This book was great; he took just enough time to explain the human interest stories behind the discoveries so that you got all the facts without the book being dry and monotonous.
I personaggi principali dell'arecheologia e le loro scoperte raccontate come un romanzo che comincia dalla scoperta delle vecchie mura di Troia da parte di Schliemann, passa per la tomba di Tutankamon di Carter e finisce(?) in Guatemala. Appassionante e scorrevole, uno di quei libri che ricordavo di aver letto alle medie e mi ha lasciato la stessa bella sensazione di allora.
In Berlin this winter, I visited the Pergamon Museum. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pergamon...That's what inspired reading this book.I Really enjoyed it. Archeology, all the beauty, mystery, politics,and strum and drang you could ever want. The museum gets 5 stars. we went back the next day.
From the pharoes to the Mayans, from the Rosetta stone to the Hittites, this book is probably the best introduction to "modern" archeology there is. Written in 1954, there are probably a lot of inaccuracies in it, but the passion for uncovering the past and making connections that reflect on who we are today comes through loud and clear.
I have the hardback copy published in 1968. It was the book that caused me to think that I wanted to be an archeologist. However, chemistry in college was my demise. I just couldn't memorize that table of elements. However the book is still facinating.
