https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111300.To_a_God_Unknown
He listens to the crackling sound of boughs and leaves in the restless wind, caresses its bark and seeks its silent advice, as if his father’s spirit were lodged in it, as if all the doubts could be dispelled in the sap that infuses life in the tree.But blessings can turn into curses, and the rains that showered the valley with blossoming abundance suddenly run dry, turning a fecund land into a sterile, parched desert where death and desolation obliterate all trace of bygone love and fortune.Steinbeck’s novel follows a linear narrative that is strongly marked by the passing seasons, but its heart pulsates in the silences of what is not written, and only sensed by the careful reader.
Back in 2012 I embarked on a project of reading my way through the works of John Steinbeck.
As it is, I started with Cannery Row, moved on to The Grapes of Wrath and then just read whatever came my way.
This early in his literary career, Steinbeck wanted to write about archetypes and heroes rather than about the ordinary people whose lives he evoked with such skill in The Grapes of Wrath, Of Mice and Men and Cannery Row. Steinbeck’s central character, Joseph Wayne, has little in common with the characters of his best-known works.
Histórias que nos arrastam desde o início numa torrente de fatalidade irremediável, num prenúncio nem sempre claro, mas indubitavelmente presente e ao qual não escapamos.
A um Deus desconhecido, não tem um enredo complicado, no entanto, envolve-nos até à medula numa história de sentimentos primitivos e ligações primordiais à mãe terra, aos elementos, aos animais, à força inexorável da natureza.
É uma narrativa que vive, sobretudo, de descrições; extensas mas irrepreensíveis; exigem concentração e até alguma releitura para não nos perdermos num mundo agreste onde os mistérios da criação e da morte nem sempre se explicam.

«Non so se ci siano uomini nati al di fuori della natura umana, o se alcuni uomini siano tanto umani da far sembrare irreali gli altri.
E acqua.
Sometimes I stop and savor each sentence, particularly in descriptive passages, and the perfection with which he writes is unbelievable.Like the protagonist, Joseph, I love and feel connected to nature in a deep and a strong way.
I give life to life'--'I make a symbol of the sun's death." When I made these reasons, I knew they weren't true." He looked around for corroboration.Joseph broke in, "These were words to clothe a naked thing, and the thing is ridiculous in clothes.""You see it.
I do it because I like to."I loved this book for its naked, mysterious truth.
It relies, mostly, in the fact that the universe means different things to each character and each one is faithful to what keeps him calm: so as Joseph needs the oak to feel safe, Thomas uses the animals to the same effect and Burton seeks comfort in the scriptures and religious camps.
Mas reside, sobretudo, no modo como o universo significa coisas tão diferentes para cada personagem, e cada um é devoto àquilo que o tranquiliza, sendo que Joseph precisa da árvore para se sentir seguro, Thomas dos animais e Burton das escrituras e dos acampamentos religiosos.

Και για όσους ενδιαφέρονται για τον Steinbeck, υπάρχει στο τέλος μια υπέροχη ιστορική αναδρομή στους προγόνους του, στη ζωή και στο έργο του, καθώς και μια συλλογή από σπάνιο φωτογραφικό υλικό του ίδιου.Η κάθε σελίδα της ιστορίας είναι κι από ένας ύμνος στη φύση, τις ομορφιές της και σε όσα προσφέρει αυτή στον άνθρωπο.
Ένα άλλο θέμα που εγείρεται είναι η θυσία στον εκάστοτε θεό και η αξία της.Ταξίδεψα πολύ με αυτή την ανάγνωση σε πανέμορφα φυσικά τοπία, χάρη στις πολλές περιγραφές της φύσης, ενστερνίστηκα τις ανησυχίες του ήρωα και παρακολούθησα τα πάθη του με μια γλυκιά μελαγχολία.
Γενικότερα, είναι ένα βιβλίο που μπορεί να προκαλέσει άπειρο στοχασμό, καθώς και άπειρες συζητήσεις σχετικά με το θέμα "Πίστη".
Nothing else is like that.” ― John Steinbeck, To a God UnknownAn early Steinbeck filled with amazing biblical, pagan, and Greek images.
It is a story of four brothers who move from the East (Vermont) to the West (California) to work the land and raise cattle.
Joseph Wayne isn't the oldest, but he is the leader/patriarch of the brothers ever since their dying father gave him his blessing (hints at Isaac’s blessing on Jacob).
Joseph is convinced that his father's spirit abides in a large oak tree on his farm.
But while almost all of his other California novels that focused on the land and the people who lived on it were gently affectionate, To A God Unknown is a very different bird.
In To A God Unknown, practically from the first chapter, the mood is one of a foreboding, as Joseph Wayne takes leave of his father who blesses him in a vaguely described but clearly unusual way, deliberately meant, I m sure, to evoke Hebrew Testament patriarchs.
Pensei que me fosse mais fácil escrever sobre este livro, mas talvez noutra altura. Por enquanto quero só dizer que foi uma experiência bastante enriquecedora e que tenciono, quando tiver mais disponibilidade, ler outras obras do autor. Muito, muito recomendado.
Although not yet as strong and defined as in his later works, the classic Steinbeck tone is still there, and, of course, it is set against the oft-revisited setting of the fertile farmlands of Central California.What prevents me from giving this book a higher rating is that, in the scope of Steinbeck's literary career, it is not very impressive.
Nevertheless, what prevents me from giving this book a lower rating is that it remains a thoughtful, intriguing, and insightful piece on the nature of man's relationship to the land and to God.Overall, it is certainly a worthwhile read.
In that way, it is a young man's book, a little braver than even he may have realized at the time; and whether Steinbeck knew Melville's comment ("To write a great book, one must be able to write badly," as I remember it), he was practicing it.
I was reading it simultaneously with John O'Hara's Appointment in Samarra, where sharp, accurate, revealing dialogue is one of O'Hara's great strengths; and it was an interesting contrast.
While To a God Unknown never comments on the Depression, and is set a couple decades earlier, it is imbued with some kind of recognition of it.
I'll call this creepy Steinbeck. The detached writing style added a sinister element to these common place events and conversations. This story also took dark turns at almost every chance it got. I don't really understand Steinbeck's intent for this book, but I think I'd be a good read to kick off October. Just play creepy music in the background and nearly all the scenes will take on a menacing tone.
But ultimately To a God Unknown is an example of a writer overreaching, straining to attain lofty heights and instead painfully falling short.It was actually reassuring to me -- as one of the 295 million aspiring authors in the United States -- to see that someone with as much talent as Steinbeck could also struggle to find himself.
It wasn't until Steinbeck discovered his ability to relate to the common man with his next novel, Tortilla Flat, a story about wine-drinking, fun-loving paisanos in Monterey, California, that he achieved critical success.3) To succeed at being an author, you have to WORK.
Книгата на Джон Стайнбек „To a God unknown“ (Към един незнаен бог) беше втората книга прочетена по препоръка на приятел.
Ако не беше препоръката най-вероятно въобще нямаше да посегна отново към Стайнбек, но сега не съжалявам.Историята сама по себе си не блести с оригиналност – Джоузеф Уейн напуска бащиния дом и заминава за далечна и непозната земя за да сложи началото на живота, за който е мечтал, живот в единение със земята.Джоузеф изгражда голямо стопанство в новите земи.
Земята е неговия Бог олицетворен от голямо дърво растящо до къщата му.Това което ме привлече в романа беше една особена тиха страст, с която беше разказана историята.
Speravo in un'altra gemma della produzione di Steinbeck, ma sono stato parzialmente deluso.
Ci sono molte (troppe?) belle descrizioni della natura, occupano forse la metà del libro e purtroppo vanno a scapito della storia e dei personaggi.
Anche negli altri Steinbeck che ho letto la natura è sempre presente, ma è funzionale alle vite dei personaggi.
Il protagonista, Joseph, è un uomo quasi biblico che basa tutte le sue decisioni su ciò che Madre Terra suggerisce, pervaso di un misticismo che lo spinge a curarsi solo di se stesso, dela sua terra e degli animali.
A própria sinopse é reveladora de desgraça: Joseph obtém a benção do pai para se mudar para um vale na Califórnia onde, após a morte do patriarca, desloca os seus três irmãos.
Contrariado pela visão pagã de Joseph, o irmão Burton "mata" a árvore e, a partir desse momento, a terra enfraquece e a desgraça abate-se sobre a família.A escrita de Steinbeck conheceu alguma evolução, no entanto, o nível apresentado aqui já seria bastante elevado.
A capa aparentemente simples que envolve a escrita cativa o leitor, renovando o interesse na obra, tornando prazenteira a sua descoberta.
Много трудно прочетох тази книга, въпреки че изобщо не е обемна.
Четях и на телефона, в парка, докато детето поиграе, а вниманието ми беше разпределено и на много други места.
Най-лошото, според психолозите - разхвърлянето на вниманието, така човек се уморява много повече, отколкото когато се съсредоточи върху едно-единствено нещо.
Това, което съм чела досега от Джон Стайнбек ми е оформило мнение, че той разказва простичко, но трябваше да я чета тази книга в друг момент, когато не ми е толкова натоварено съзнанието с какво ли не.
И следващото негово четиво, което ще подхвана, ще бъде през зимните студени дни, когато ще ме е обхванало спокойствието от топлината вкъщи, под одеалото.
کارای اشتاین بک موضوع های جالب و خاصی داره، فقط تنها مشکل من باهاش توصیف های زیاد از حدشه، این کتاب اگر جای ۳۰۰ صفحه، ۱۰۰ صفحه بود بی نظیر میشد.
Tiene todos los elementos que luego van a marcar la obra de Steinbeck: la importancia de la tierra, sequías, familias humildes luchando por salir adelante, migraciones, el oeste, misticismo y mucha simbología bíblica. La parte final me ha parecido un poco árida, y en general toda la novela se centra más en transmitir la idea y abandona un poco a los personajes, que están lejos de ser tan entrañables como otras familias steinbeckianas. Aun así, la he disfrutado mucho, y es interesante comparar esta segunda novela con sus dos grandes y ver cómo tantos temas se repiten.
A mystical tale of course, that I've been wanting to read for a while. It exactly shows Steinbeck growing into a mature and accomplished novelist...
E' tutto questo, è il ricettacolo di almeno un frammento d'ogni anima umana, e più ancora è un simbolo dell'anima della terra."John Steinbeck è senza pari.
E' l'unica spiegazione che mi si affaccia in mente.Al dio sconosciuto parla di Joseph Wayne, un contadino che alla morte del padre viaggia sino in California per costruirsi lì una sua proprietà, seguito poco tempo dopo dai suoi tre fratelli.
Perché un uomo è spesso ammalato e tutte le volte guarisce, è questa una prova che non morrà mai?"Padre Angelo si alzò dalla sua seggiola e restò in faccia a Joseph.
Ehh.The things I liked were: (1)the breathtaking, awe-inspiring descriptions of nature...(2) the (sometimes heavy-handed) symbolism...and (3) the well-rounded portrayal of women as sexual beings yet with boundless strength and intelligence.The things I didn't like: (1) the hero Joseph Wayne made choices that consistently made me want to discontinue reading...(2) the glorification of emotional unavailability / stoicism, as if it were an ideal character trait (is it really ideal?
This trait was unquestionably "assumed" to be)...
(4) And finally, the sacrifice / abandonment of the baby (main example of #1)Overall, it was just okay.
Животът не може да бъде прекъснат лесно. Човек не умира, докато нещата, променени от него, са живи. Следите, оставени от него, са единственото доказателство, че е живял. Докато съществува и най-малкият спомен, човек не може да бъде забравен, да умре.
İkinci Steinbeck kitabım ve anladığım kadarıyla genelde aynı tarz konuları ele alıyor ve yaziyor. Sevenleri için okunasi kitap ama beni bu tarz kitaplar bu ara çok sarmiyor maalesef:-(
It was surprising to realize that the book is not so much intended to be a coherent story that spawns reader admiration, but rather, as Steinbeck himself put it, a complex mesh of his ideas and musings about life, death, and destiny that doesn't quite get resolved or answered through the course of the story.There is an inherent quest for a supreme being--a crutch to rely on when things fall through--and the divergent beliefs of the characters portrayed in the novel show this, from vapid and stolid Christianity to a webbing of pantheistic nature worship, tribal superstition and Catholicism.
All of the wonderful elements of a Steinbeck book are already there: the prose, the tension between characters and inside each character, the love of the land.
Steinbeck obviously and unrepentantly loves the land.
I feel that the obvious casting of Joseph as multiple Biblical figures, shifting roles from Moses to Abraham to Issac to Elijah to Christ, would only work by presenting the archetype immediately and not letting it slowly simmer into being, as Steinbeck often does in other books.
As always, I finish a Steinbeck book wanting to read and re-read more Steinbeck.
One of Steinbeck's early novellas, it is eerie, neo-paganistic, and sublime. The brother who is murdered was actually based on a real literary figure...Joseph Campbell. The two ran with the same literary crowd in the 40s and Campbell had an affair of the heart with Steinbeck's wife. Steinbeck handled the affair with grace and tact in reality, but poured out some righteous anger in To a God Unknown. Awesome stuff.
