https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/563452.Darkest_Hour
I liked this book. However, it did nothing to help justify "Grandmother" Cutler's ultimate rise from a sweet, caring girl to a cold bitch. I didn't have any idea why she became the way she did in later books towards Dawn, when she had suffered through so much as a young girl herself. I never understood if she hated Dawn so much, why did she name her Eugenia, after the young sister she loved so much?
It doesn't even seem as though a HUGE chunk of story was missing that would explain her change because there isn't much else one person can live through, and her past hadn't changed her so significantly by the end of the book save to make her smarter.I have to look at this book as something separate from the other books, disassociate little Lilian from Grandma Cutler.
However, separating them causes another problem.
As readers, we come in - regardless of how sophisticated we like to think we are - expecting a happy ending, especially after our protagonist suffers so...
Once again, as in other books in this series, I have found minor discrepancies in the story, which annoy the heck out of me. I mean, come on, you can't get someone to thoroughly proofread your book? But besides that, I was also very disappointed by the fact that this book did not really explain to us our Lillian turned into evil Grandmother Cutler. Yes, she's been through a whole lot of s**t in her life, but even at the end of the book, she still seemed to be a kind hearted individual. What happened?! I feel jipped!!
I hated this character in the first few books of this series, now I pity her.
Growing up and finding out your parents are really your aunt and uncle, having your one sickly sister die, while the other holy roller sister torments you and sees you as the devil.
Then, after your mother/aunt loses her mind, being raped by your father/uncle and becoming pregnant.
This book was not a good read.
I only read it because it was the last in a series and once I start a book like this, I have to know how it ends.
In the book Darkest Hour, the author shows the life of a wealthy family and how they lived their lives each day.
Even though the story is about the life of a family and the conflicting relationship between sisters, the author makes it interesting to read.
I'm not a baby." "Let her walk, Papa declared.
Even though this book is about the life of a family and their relationship, is not boring because it provides dialogues such as "Well, I'm not going on the wagon, Emily said defiantly.
Let her walk, Papa declared, If that's what she wants to do".
I really wanted to love this book, it started out really well and I felt so bad for Lillian the entire time she grew up and had to live with Emily as her sister.
But I still do not for the life of me understand why she turned into such a retched bitch.
After growing up with Emily, and being tortured by her day in and day out, why would she send Dawn to her to have her baby?!
I feel like after reading her story, it should have made her into an understanding person, not a hard person like she is.
Lillian grows up in a seemingly normal household. What she didn't know was that there was a secret. Her cold sister Emily insists that she is a curse upon the family and nerve misses an opportunity to say so. As more tragedies fall, Lillian's life gets more horrible.It was a pretty entertaining book. It was easy to sympathize with Lillian. So many bad things happened to her that I actually got angry at times. The author definitely channels to mind of a young girl. She writes passages that make you think on a deeper level.
I just have to say that I had an unhealthy obsession with VC Andrews books and the Cutler series was the second series that I really read. I loved them, but at the same time, the aspects of the books I enjoyed as a young teen, looking back now were much too adult and so cookie cutter with most of the Andrews series.
Repugnant. Repugnant. Repugnant. I wanted to see why my wife totally refused to read any books by this author. I was sickened all the way through this story. Child abuse, incest, and bitter tragedy. Avoid this book at all costs. It might make you throw up with disgust. It took me three days to finish.. which is very slow for me.
Re read I just can’t seem to start anything new so going back to the oldies
Insert loud exhausted sighing here. Finally, I will never have to pick up another VC Andrews book ever again. Ever.
Look forward to reading more from this author --- appears to have tons to choose from!
In this novel you see how Lillian is full of hopes, dreams, and happiness; she is also smart and beautiful. We also see how the relationship between Lillian and her sister, Emily isn’t the greatest. It's obvious that Emily is very jealous of Lillian. Every page gets better. I feel for Lillian, but I’m surprised that this caused her to change into the person she turned to. I get it with Grandmother Foxworth (Flowers in the Attic), but not with Lillian. I feel like it wasn't really explained why she became so cruel and bitter.
I really wish her writing career ended after the Dollanganger series and My Sweet Audrina, but it seems as though there are some seedy people who can't let her writing die, and I think it has tarnished her name as a writer.
The ghostwriter has churned out a number of formulaic, predictable, and one dimensional books that rely on shock value and read as V.C. Andrews fanfiction half the time.I have sworn off all ghostwritten work, but there were some books I did like.
Overall, this book would be better if it was written by a serious and talented writer, but it has good themes and is a quick read.
VCA might not have written this, but she did leave behind notes and outlines and I think Neiderman did a fine job of applying them for this series, though this book does leave a few unanswered questions.
This book could have gone more into that, because it ends long before all the family drama started, so I would have loved to see Lillian's POV about her daughter-in-law.Overall a fine book, it is a shame that Neiderman stopped putting so much effort into the books after he completed the Logan series, though...
I dunno what it is about V.C. Andrews, but she seems to be very fascinated with incest and abuse because that seems to be the focal point of all her stories (or at least the ones I've read).
I read almost the whole Cutler series and this one was more of a back story about Grandma Cutler.
Grandma Cutler is a mean and evil woman, where Lillian Cutler is not at all a mean and evil person in this book.
His wife withering away after the death of her youngest child.Yes, this story is sick and twisted and yet I found myself disturbed and fascinated all at the same time.
This is the first of the Cutler series I've read.From the minute I started this book, to the minute I put it down, there were tears in my eyes-not a comfortable feeling!
There were too many unfortunate deaths in the book- sure stirred up alot of uncomfortable feelings for me!
I was uncomfortable from the very beginning because I knew Eugenia was going to die eventually and I wouldn't be able to take it.
I mean, why couldn't they kill off Emily instead of the good characters like Eugenia, her mom, etc.
I have really enjoyed reading this series. In the beginning I hated Lillian but after reading Darkest Hour I can see and understand how she became so bitter and twisted.
Great as a stand-alone book, but really doesn’t do anything to explain why Lillian grows up to be the butter Matriarch of the Cutler family. There are also a few contextual oversights by Niederman (e.g. the Booths identifying that Eugenia had cystic fibrosis even though before the Great Depression they didn’t know what it was), but a good, if not slightly twisted, story.
Très vite, on découvre qu'elle n'est pas la fille de la maison (contrairement à Emily) mais une nièce orpheline recueillie.
Le personnage du père est un monstre d'hypocrisie tout comme celui d'Emily dont la cruauté n'a rien à voir avec les valeurs chrétiennes dont elle se targue.
On assiste lentement à la descente aux enfers de Liliane à qui rien n'est épargné et je trouve que la genèse du personnage est vraiment très réussie.
(*Potential spoiler, if you haven't read the previous books*) We already knew that Eugenia was going to die, we knew she was going to get raped by her uncle/father.
We knew they were going to pretend Charlotte belonged to her mother/aunt.
We knew Lillian was going to get traded off to a Cutler.
(**End of spoilers**)The only surprise was the part involving Niles, but that didn't last long at all.
By the end of the story, I still couldn't fathom the idea of Lillian behaving in such a way.She did become a little self preserved and emotionally diluted, but she still wasn't a bad person.
WHAT I HATED ABOUT THIS BOOK, IS HOW AT FIRST LILLIAN BOOTH HAS A SWEETER LOVING SIDE.
WHAT THE BOOK NEVER SAYS IS HOW DID EMILY BECOME SO FALSELY RELIGIOUS.
SINCE LILLIAN WAS GOING TO TURN OUT EVIL, I WOULD HAVE LOVED FOR HER TO HAVE KEPT THE DEED TO "THE MEDOW"S AND ANNOUNCE INFRONT OF ALL OF THE GEUSTS WHAT KIND OF MAN HER FATHER OR RATHER UNCLE IS, AND KICK OUT EMILY, AND JED BOOTHE OUT OF THE HOUSE AND LITTLE BY LITTLE RESTORE THE HOUSE TO WHAT IT WAS, BROUGHT BACK HENRY, LOUELLA AND TOTTIE.
Well, that was very very very dissappointing.The thing with Virginia's books is this: it get's boring after 3 parts of one serie.
It gets predictable and the characters are getting more and more annoying after each book.Especially the main characters.
What is wrong with these people?!
Maybe this is one of her worst series, who knows.
I realize that this isn't entirely written by herself, but it's still has that annoying Virginia-vibe going on.I do adore the Casteel-series.
But still, also very predictable.All the characters in her book deserve a spot in a mental ward if you ask me...
When I read these novels back in the day I would have given them 3-3.5 STARS and now would say about one StarI started reading VC Andrews books in the 1991 and stopped about 2003. I have read:-Dollanganger Series-Casteel Series-Cutler Series-Landry Series-Logan Series-Orphans Series-Wildflowers Series-Hudson Series-Shooting Stars Series-DeBeers Series-Broken Wings SeriesAs a preteen reading these novels was a rebellion and the gothic theme also seemed cool. I stopped reading this author because the novelty wore off, the novels are too formulaic that I could not tell one book from another and gothic aspect was lost.

In my opinion, "Darkest Hour" was the best book in the Culter Series.
However, I hated the ending!
The readers never find out how Lillian, or Grandmother Culter as known in previous book, became so cruel and bitter!
Lillian is a very likable character in this book, but the author never relayed the events that made her snap and turn evil.
That irked me so bad!
Other than that, it was a very quick book anf very blunt!
I'm still horrified when I found out that Niles fell from Lillian's room, broke his neck, and died.
:( It broke my heart.
I haven't read a VC Andrews book since my youth. I forgot how utterly messed up these families are. The book was quick paced and literally kept me up all night reading it which hasn't happened in awhile. When reading this I related heavily to Lillian; her family and others treatment of her and the abuse she suffered at their hands via coercion, threats, etc. I hear Lillian turns into a monster in previous books which is a shame but a loving, hopefully person can only take so much abuse and misfortune before they are broken.
This story didn't sit well at me all. For God's sake how could you read about a girl being repeatedly raped by his stepfather and fathering a child! The emotional turmoil she goes through in her growing up and her forceful parting with her child (who were raised only as a sister of hers) at her subsequent marriage were depressing to read. The only good part I read was her subsequent marriage to man, who though fails to keep his fidelity, nevertheless treats her with respect and care.
It was an okay book, still gripping like many of Virginia Andrews' work. I did enjoy reading about Dan Cutler's grandmother although it wasn't really explained why she grew old to be such a cruel and cold grandmother.I wish the author gave more details about Dawn and what transpired during her conception. It was also awful to read about her own foster father raping her twice and impregnating her in the end...
Judging by the blurb on the back of the book, you'd think that was the main story but no. The blurb was covered in the last 50 pages or so. The prequel to the 'Cutler' series actually portrays Lillian Cutler as a human being after all. I was enjoying it and then BAM....more incest, more rape. Seems every book by this author has to cover these subjects. Must admit I'm getting bored with the same thing.
