https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23031.Time_s_Arrow
They say hello when they mean goodbye.” ― Martin Amis, Time's ArrowI liked the prose and liked the execution, but there was still something a bit off.
A tooth is missing in time's reverse cog making this Amis story rock rather than roll in reverse.
The movement from physical and moral corruption to a form of innocence uncovered a bit more of the lizard brain for me.The problem, however, is bending this story without a need for infinite folds in time.
Amis is forced to skip back in time, translate, and then relate the narrative forward.
-يمكنك ان تبدأ بالسطر الأخير اولا لتحصل علي نفس المراجعة بشكل مختلف نوعا ما-محمد العربيالي 25 ابريل 2016من 24 ابريل 2016النهاية---.ويظل الغلاف لعبد الرحمن الصواف لتلك الطبعة العربية هو أفضل ما حدث بهذه النسخة العربية.لكن لم استمتع علي الاطلاق بأسلوب المؤلف الثقيل في الحكي وليس الترجمة واسلوب المترجم فحسب.برغم من ان الفكرة ممتازة جدا...فالبطل ،أوديلو ايا كان اسمه يري ان العالم يسير الان بلا منطق، يري الدنيا ماشية بظهرها..وبعيدا عن سخطه الدائم الثقيل فإنك يجب أن تعترف انه محق.الأطباء...العاهرات..اللامبالاة..العنصرية.لا توجد جريمة هنا...واعتقد ان الترجمة الجيدة لكانت "طبيعة الإساءة"...إساءات البشرية ضد نفسها.القنبلة النووية...التجارب علي البشر الرهيبة.التغيرات المجتمعية..الحروب..الهيبز..فيتنام...دعاة السلام...التليفزيون والوعي المجتمعي.انه القرن العشرون..قرن الحربين والاعتداءات...الرواية كتبت في 1991...كشاهد علي هذا العصر.لقد كان بطل الرواية محقا عندما تسائل في النهاية، هل ولد هو في الوقت الخاطئ- قريب جدا، أو بعد أن أصبح متاخرا جداالشخصيات-----.هو ليس كرواية الحالة الغريبة لبنجامين بوتون التي كتبها فيتزجيرالد في العشرينات فالبطل يعيش طبيعي ولكن الراوي لا.الراوي يروي شهادته لحياة البطل منذ لحظة موته بامريكا حتي لحظة ميلاده بسولينجين الألمانية كمونولوج طويل.بالمتشقلب...فالراوي يدرك انه يرجع الي الخلف وهو يحكي حكاية بطل الحكاية.منذ ان عاشر ابيه الجندي مصاب الحرب العظمي امه إبان الحرب العالمية..ثم ميلاده...مرورا بشبابه وقت الحرب العالمية الثانية ثم هجرته لامريكا
He'll probably spend years writing then researching this thing, which she's already rated like it's an eBay-seller transaction, and reviewed with all the thoughtfulness and care of an Adderall-snorting thirteen-year-old's Facebook status update...In any case, now she'll see what this book's all about.
Also some nice, darkly-brooding well-phrased stuff with its own intense, seductive style: "There's probably a straightforward explanation for the impossible weariness I feel.
Ooh, that's nice!More good stuff -- time passes from one era to the next with description that transcends mere gimmick...
The non-U USPA short book that is one long gimmick: clever as a writing exercise, but not worth publishing or reading.
And it's not even that original: Kurt Vonnegut had the same idea as a brief scene in "Slaughterhouse Five" (see my review here) as did Borges in the short story A Weary Man’s Utopia, which is in "The Book of Sand" (see my review here), and probably Fitzgerald's The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.It opens with painfully vivid descriptions of a life-and death emergency.
But with this man-woman stuff, you could run them any way you liked - and still get no further forward." There are duly several scenes where it is quite intriguing to read the dialog forwards then backwards, and the fact it works is clever, but...
No matter how bad we were, no matter how good we were -- time, the man-made structure that decides what we do in our lives, how often we celebrate occasions, when we are born, when we die, what people think about us after we die, does not discriminate.The concept behind Amis's 'Time's Arrow' is gimmicky at its core, but works only by the intelligence and craftiness of its author.When reading this, you see the outlook from a man with a possible multiple personality speaking from its point of view in reverse chronology and not the central character, a man who has escaped the ills of his past to change his life, hide from the past, needing the chance to heal again.
Reading this book and trying to get a grasp on the main character is a little like trying to figure out what your face really looks like by only using the side of a spoon for a mirror.
It is disturbing, really, to read Amis’ words from a narrator that is like “a baby taken from the toilet,” having a heart but no face: “We cry and twist and are naked at both ends of life.
We cry at both ends of life while the doctor watches.” If human beings remember only what they want to, I want to remember this book, if only to keep me from forgetting to tremble at the horrors of history.
As science fiction concepts go this was interesting, but in the hands of a respectable sf writer this could have been so much more. While the odd idea breaks, through such as the child who is able to crawl forward for a few seconds is intriguing he never takes it further.The usual amusment with reverse poo is there and why notNot a good starting point for my first Amis (or for anyone really) but will try again.
Ma una vita che scorre alla rovescia diventa ai nostri occhi estremamente curiosa, ridicola, a volte anche disgustosa.Quando si pranza si mettono prima i piatti puliti nella lavastoviglie.
Durante la prima parte del romanzo non sapevo se ridere per gli episodi grotteschi nella loro comicità o se buttare il libro dalla finestra, tanto risultava incomprensibile, senza né capo né coda.
E' stato necessario tornare a rileggere più volte per cercare di trovare un senso.Poi, all’improvviso, verso i tre quarti di libro, ho iniziato a intravedere il soggetto e allora la trama ha iniziato ad avere una logica.Mi chiedo se il libro di Amis aggiunga qualcosa alla visione dell'olocausto.
After reading the first page of this book and realising that Amis was actually going to write a novel with time moving backwards I thought he must have some brilliant notion that required and would more than excuse the use of such an gimmicky device.
I was willing to overlook all the technical and conceptual failings and inconsistencies in execution, on grounds of artistic licence, with the faith that the payoff would be so clever, insightful and illuminating theses trivial concerns would pale into insignificance.
In-fact I thought that there were so many failings and inconsistencies was proof of the confidence Amis had in the magnitude of the payoff that was to come.
O enredo de A Seta do Tempo não me surpreendeu muito, não só por assentar em factos históricos mas por deduzir, desde as primeiras páginas, para onde me dirigia.
Martin Amis conta a história de um homem, desde a sua morte até ao seu nascimento, de trás para a frente.
"O esbaforido choro de uma criança, acalmado pela firme bofetada da mão do pai, uma formiga morta ressuscitada pela descuidada pisadela de uma sola que passa, um dedo ferido curado e selado pela lâmina da faca."Não é uma leitura difícil mas exige concentração para apreciar o texto (os diálogos têm mais sentido se lidos de baixo para cima).
"Time's Arrow" is a very fine and powerful novel by Amis who, for me, had a tough encore after reading his genius novel, "Money," of which stratospheric literary level "Time's Arrow" falls a smidge short.
Amis deploys with great skill the narrative device of telling one man's story backward in a disciplined linear story arc from death to birth.
Amis shows an adept skill for showing how, when the narrative takes the reader from the present in a linear flight, the results seem surprising and contradictory.
I truly respect the writing in "Time's Arrow" and Martin Amis whose masterpiece, "Money," I recommend that you read first.
It continues to amaze me how those who claim to be fans of Martin Amis haven't heard of or read Time's Arrow.
It's been a while since I read it, but what I remember was the uncanny sense that I was experiencing time backwards as I read it.
I began questioning what was happening to the event of reading, to me!, through this process of a narrative that runs itself backwards.
I am looking forward to finding the time to read it again soon.
Tells me that if you don't usually like Martin Amis's books, you would probably like this one.)
If an author were to narrate my experience reading this novel in reverse, they would depict me getting progressively less and less frustrated with the book, until the very moment I finally put it down.
Perché Amis in questo suo esperimento di letteratura srotola il tempo al contrario: non tanto dal finale al principio, piuttosto dal dopo al prima.Per intendersi: dal carrozziere si va con la macchina a posto e si ritira ammaccata; a Solingen arrivano forbici, coltelli, bisturi che vengono trasformati in acciaio; i mobili non si costruiscono, ma si distruggono riducendoli nei loro componenti…Un po’ macchinoso per i miei gusti.
Niente a che vedere con la linearità narrativa del film “Memento” o “Il curioso caso di Benjamin Button”, opere che in qualche modo potrebbero essere paragonate a questa di Amis.
فالبطل يأخذ مثلاً أكله من القمامة ويعيد ترتيبه وإعطائه للمطعم حيث يدفع له المطعم المال بدل العكس، ولكن لماذا يفعل إيمس هذا؟ ما الغرض الفني من هذا القلب التام للحياة والأفعال؟ لن نكتشف هذا إلا عند نهاية الرواية، فبطلنا الذي يعيش في أمريكا تحت اسم تود فرندلي، ليس إلا طبيب نازي هارب ومتخف، وعندما تعود بنا الرواية إلى الزمن الذي كان يعمل فيه في معتقل أوشفيتز الرهيب، وعندما يكون العالم مقلوباً، فقط عندها نفهم كيف يمكن للطبيب الذي كان عليه أن يخفف آلام مرضاه، أن ينعكس دوره ليكون وراء الألم والمعاناة، هذه رواية عن الهولوكوست والنازية، تعرض العالم معكوساً حيث يفتح الأطباء مرضاهم ليضعوا فيهم الأورام لا ليستأصلوها، وحيث يداعب القوادون العاهرات ويمنحونهن المال، في هذا العالم المقلوب وحده يمكن للفظاعات التي يرتكبها الإنسان أن تتحول إلى عمل طيب، ويمكن للأطباء/القتلة أن ينالوا خلاصهم.
(primo elemento spiazzante: una specie di assistente del dottor mengele può avere una coscienza che candidamente racconta gli orrori come fossero opere di bene?)risposta di martin amis: sì, se il film scorre al contrario.
e ancora sì, se si vuole mostrare la possibilità di una smagliatura nel corso reale dei fatti, ipotizzare una crepa nel modo in cui è andata davvero la Storia.in un romanzo non semplice (ma semplicemente geniale) lo scrittore inglese contemporaneo più interessante butta lì l'illusione di una finestra spazio-temporale in cui la freccia del tempo, vai a sapere perché, inchioda e fa dietrofront.
Second reading. Just brill, to use the Amis argot. See my review of Kurt Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five for my theory that Time's Arrow was inspired, at least in part, by a sequence in that earlier novel in which the protagonist watches a war film backwards. Highly recommended.
"Arbeit Macht Frei"  - Auschwitz”A Seta do Tempo” é um dos mais emblemáticos romances do escritor britânico Martin Amis (n. 1949) originalmente publicado em 1991. (view spoiler)[A história começa nos Estados Unidos da América, com um protagonista que foi médico no campo de concentração de Auschwitz, um criminoso de guerra nazi.A narrativa de ”A Seta do Tempo” inicia-se do fim para o princípio. Às arrecuas, o narrador - que não é mais do que a consciência do criminoso nazi. ”Porque estou eu a en
(view spoiler)[A história começa nos Estados Unidos da América, com um protagonista que foi médico no campo de concentração de Auschwitz, um criminoso de guerra nazi.A narrativa de ”A Seta do Tempo” inicia-se do fim para o princípio.
”A Seta do Tempo” é um romance original, com uma escrita virtuosa, uma história contada de uma forma invertida no tempo, com os diálogos a fazerem sentido se lidos do fim para o princípio, numa verdadeira vivência dicotómica.A mestria de Martin Amis consiste em desenvolver um enredo com um narrador que não é mais do que a consciência do protagonista, vivendo aparentemente dentro dele, sentido os seus sentimentos, mas sem ter acesso aos seus pensamentos e sem controlo sobre os acontecimentos.
Normally when I sense that a writer is going to pull a stunt with the entire conceit of his or her novel, I end up with a slow disdainful Billy Idol-style grimace developing on my face before thudding against the glass ceiling of disgust and shutting the book for good.Don't do it, Martin.
I mean, I could even try to write a freaking book about a Nazi war criminal BACKWARDS!!!" Sure, go for it, Martin.
I had to drop a star. Bruised sleep revealed that I should not uphold my immediate image and adjust downwards. This situation was vivid in that I couldn't stop imaganing Amis in a smoking jacket writing about the Final Solution.- Anyway -A novel, a theme, that requires one to pass over it in silence. Marty refers to the Shoah as an autobahn to the reptilian mind. I tend to agree. Reading the dialogue in reverse was afeat. Language, sentences rather, are often so pailindromic.
Time is heading on toward something. It pours past unpreventably, like the reflection on a windshield as the car speeds through city or forest. Η τεχνική του Martin Amis δεν είναι εντελώς νέα· η αφήγηση από το παρόν προς το παρελθόν χρησιμοποιείται σε αρκετά κινηματογραφικά και λογοτεχνικά έργα, εντούτοις αυτό είναι το μόνο, τουλάχιστον από όσα έχω έρθει σε επαφή, έργο που μετέρχεται την ανάποδη χρονολογία ακόμη και στους διαλόγους, ωθώντας τον αναγνώστη να διαβάζει προς τα πίσω. Η πραγματική π
It pours past unpreventably, like the reflection on a windshield as the car speeds through city or forest.
Η τεχνική του Martin Amis δεν είναι εντελώς νέα· η αφήγηση από το παρόν προς το παρελθόν χρησιμοποιείται σε αρκετά κινηματογραφικά και λογοτεχνικά έργα, εντούτοις αυτό είναι το μόνο, τουλάχιστον από όσα έχω έρθει σε επαφή, έργο που μετέρχεται την ανάποδη χρονολογία ακόμη και στους διαλόγους, ωθώντας τον αναγνώστη να διαβάζει προς τα πίσω.
The novel is howlingly funny, and just when you want it to gain in seriousness and gravity, it does--the book deepens and becomes about the human condition, and about the nature of the soul and sin.
In fact, between the galleys of the book and the final printing, Amis removed two words from the final line: "And I, [the soul] within, who came along too late or too early to make a difference." (I am writing this from memory, so if it is a misquote, my apologies.
The book is in a box somewhere.) An awesome novel, in the truest sense of "awesome."
Some chuck out Chaos Theory and who knows whatall (possibly someone does - there might be people out there who've made it their life’s work to see what every body on the planet thinks is the meaning for our existence and the existence of life itself if they can manage to pull their heads out of their egocentric/human-centric world view long enough to acknowledge the existence and even possible importance of, species other than their own.
Time's Arrow stands alone and if you find the idea intriguing then I would advise you to read it without knowing anything more about it unless it is already too late.
See, I'd had Martin Amis hyped to me as one of the funniest writers of the whole goddamn 20th century; a classmate of mine referred to The Rachel Papers as the funniest book he'd read besides Infinite Jest, and anyone who knows me knows an Infinite Jest comparison is going to pique my interest.
So I'm not sure how highly I can recommend this, because the first hundred fifteen pages (again, assuming you're reading the Vintage International edition) can only be described, at least in my eyes, as unholy shit on wings, but when it gets where it's going, it gets so good you won't even mind the gracelessness of its transition.
"An old lady descends from the black branches of the fire escape every morning and wearily gathers it all up and clambers home with it in paper bags: the food left for her by the birds."Before I say what I think about this novel, I should acknowledge that this idea of traveling backwards in time is not one that comes from Amis.
(Thank goodness Amis didn't flip all the words in reverse or we'd be in Hoban territory.) I think this is an enjoyable read, and I'm looking forward to hearing the author speak at the Open Book series at the University of South Carolina.
Read: November 2016Rating: 5/5 stars, best of 2016The plot: the narrator of this story inhabits the dying body of a man named Tod Friendly, and it soon becomes clear that the narrator is living backwards in time, as Tod becomes younger, loses and gains lovers, and moves from his current country back through Portugal and then to Poland and Auschwitz.I loved this book.
Dick however deals with time moving backwards on a social and global scale; how it affects society and culture, whereas Amis never loses his focus on Tod.What struck me the most about Time's Arrow is that the Narrator (who doesn't appear to *be* Tod) observes a world that is so much better than ours in a way.
Hmm, everyone's reviews say he wrote the book backwards, when it's untrue; the book is written from beginning to end, like all of them.
It just tells the story from the end to the beginning, but in order.
I was reading over my infant son's shoulder while I was feeding him, and it was so icky I felt like I was transferring some kind of violence to him bodily.
Like, almost, that he wanted to write this book so he could contstruct violence out of healing (which is what happens when things are bassackwards, see).
Warning: This book will mess with your head. Like, properly. It can't be quite frustrating a times but I love the way it turns everything you think you know about cause and effect, and our perception of the way events unfold, on it's head - and then spins it around a few times for good measure.
A book that you can read in a day, that challenges the brain into thinking backwards.
Throw in the holocaust, suffering and a general bleakness coupled with horror and it's a book worthy of your time.
Perhaps there is no emotion, but if there was, it would be a betrayal on the main character.Taking the original approach aside, Amis can write - the book is littered with lovely phrases and thoughts.
A short original book that takes you somewhere else entirely and works within its own rules is a difficult skill to master, yet Amis has not only mastered it, he's added his own spin and it works.
"Vinte centímetros cúbicos de ar - vinte centímetros cúbicos de nada - é tudo o que preciso para fazer a diferença. Portanto ninguém me agradece enquanto eu, com uma seringa quase do tamanho de um trombone e o meu pé direito calcando firmemente o corpo do paciente, continuo a levar a cabo a guerra contra o nada e o ar."
