https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/748526.Barbarossa
There are some limited successes (often defensive battles to extracate themselves from danger).Finally 1945 sees the war brought home to Germany with a vengeance, as Berlin is stormed and the German people experience retribution at the hands of a victorious army with scores to settle.The numbers involved in this struggle are almost unimaginable, millions of combatants fight and die, civilians bear the brunt as always (perhaps 20 million die) and the map of Europe is changed forever as the eastern border of Germany is moved westwards.This book is very good on the grand strategic sweep of the campaign.
In World War II, on the eastern front, we see that severity as its utmost.On the whims of such delusion was begat the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941 -- an act that led to a four-year titanic struggle almost too enormous to grasp with attendant human suffering too pervasive to imagine.The four-year war between Germany and Russia, we can safely say, consituted the *real* struggle of the second world war, but saying that makes me leery and a little guilty in light of the heroic acts and the suffering endured in the other theaters of battle, some by a hair-thin collection of men and women who still walk among us.
This is not a novel.
Barbarossa is an intense, graphic history of the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941.
It was first published in 1965 and as far as I know is still the standard for this particular period.
The savagery and cruelty of the war on the Russian front is brought to the reader in crisp, unadulterated prose that leaves you breathless and horrified at the extent of the barbarism which took place.
Any one interested in military history should read this book.
Anyone who thinks war is a good thing should be strapped down and have this book read to them.
This masterpiece focuses on the major strategic aspects of the fighting primarily from the German perspective - from the initial German invasion and the turning point at Stalingrad to the final collapse of the German forces and the Soviet's sweep through Poland and into Berlin.The account is definitely lopsided with the predominance of the discussion focusing on the German perspective.
Of particular interest are the quoted exchanges between Hitler and various members of the German General Staff giving some direct insight into the interaction of the personalities involved and the atmosphere surrounding those meetings.In addition to the military aspect of the account, Alan Clark includes the economic particulars driving the strategy and battles.
I was blown away by this classic book on WW2,its truly fantastic and really opened my eyes to the war really being a war between Nazis and Soviets. I think its a must read. As another reviewer has said Hitler comes across as been let down by squabbling factions within high command.
There is firstly the military history itself; secondly the background history to the conflict such as the analysis of the psychology of Hitler and his Generals; and thirdly the work of an artist: the narrative, drama, suspense, tragedy and epic of the story.
The imaginative power of the book - the epic feel of the greatest war in history, the tantalising closeness to Moscow, the mythic echoes of Napoleon’s campaign - is such that it transcends the military history genre.
It is also amusing that Clark the self-opinionated, outspoken libertine peeks out from time to time from under the mask of the serious historian....This is an extract from a review at http://monthlybookgroup.wordpress.com/.
Our reviews are also to be found at http://monthlybookgroup.blogspot.com/

As a casual reader, I found this book tough-going but ultimately rewarding.
However, to judge this book as a purely factual history 'textbook' on the eastern conflict would be egregiously missing the point.
What makes Barbarossa most rewarding is Alan Clark's unique writing style, wit and personality which are stamped on the numerous side anecdotes and tangental observations that briefly (but frequently) give the reader some breathing space while remaining relevant to the context of military history.
This book breathes life into a subject that was briefly covered in some of my school classrooms years ago.
To read about the sub-zero temperatures and their effects on soldiers and their gear will make any reader more appreciative of the comfortable life they now enjoy.
The valiant persistence of the Russian soldiers despite the onslaught by a better-organized foe is pointed out very well by the author.
I find this book so interesting that I have given it to a couple of my friends.
They, too, found it difficult to put down once they began reading it.
This was a very detailed account of German-Russian battles during WWII culminating in the fall of Germany. Alan Clark does a great job in organizing the material and providing insight into the motivations of each side. For those who were taught that the Germans were beaten by the winter and the Russians burning all the towns before the Germans could resupply, this book will take you deeper into what really happened.
I read this book in grade school, which caused a minor scandal with the librarian, who told me I was too young to read it. Of course, I read the whole thing. Alan Clark's first English-language account of the Russian-German conflict of WWII is so vivid and gripping, it stays in my mind after all these years. A classic.
The first of many volumes that I have read on the German invasion of Russia. For a single volume it presented a thorough view of the start of the campaign. Subsequent books by authors like Glantz and Erickson have had greater access to soviet sources, but this book is still on my shelves and has been re-read from time to time.
Excellent study of German command problems and conflicts. How keeping his followers at odds with each other cost Hitler in the long run. Clark has a more favorable evaluation of Hitler as commander than many other writers.
This book was first published in 1965. I read it in 1968 and we teenage, burgeoning WWII fans liked it. There were few books available at the time that covered something outside the USA battles. This on the Russian front really got us interested.
Poorly sourced, pre-access to anything Soviet.
Painful. That so many were sacrificed for so little and so few ......
I particularly liked that the author also included oft-harrowing examples of the barbarism exhibited by both sides.
Because THAT is what made the whole eastern conflict virtually incomprehensible to all Western countries (US definitely included).
This is not to say that the life of any soldier has little value - rather, it just speaks to how vastly different the Eastern Front was compared to the rest of the war.My only main criticism: there really needs to be more maps, particularly when the author pulls the curtain back and mentions a good number of names and places in quick succession, with no real explanation or indicator that would give the average reader concrete clues to actual locations.
Got this book on loan from my brother in law.
Not quite as good trying to relate personal stories of ordinary soldiers and citizens.
Almost as if the author thought "well this is what works for band of brothers..." Really focuses on Hans Guderian and his struggles trying to keep the German armies from falling apart as the war turned against them, and how he appears to be one of the few who actually stood up to Hitler and spoke the truth and lived to tell about it.
It's a long book so you have to really be interested.
Good run down on the Russo-German front in WWII.
Written in 1964, Clark lacks both declassified Allied documents and anything from the Russians.
While focused on the German perspective due to the availability of source material, he is even handed.
The idea that most shocked me was the notion that the Germans generals would have succeeded if they executed Hitler's plan vigorously instead of dragging their feet.
The other major insight Clark describes well is the series of attacks to culmination.
The possibility of a serious Russian setback remained even in 1945.Overall an easy read (and better if you have a map to follow) and worth it.
A good overview of the major battles of the campaign and its political implications.
Masterful yet approachable. I wish I could give it 6 stars.
Extremely detailed account of this landmark event, but perhaps a sprinkling of personal accounts may have energized it!
The book makes it a point to evaluate all the main aspects and issues of the military conflict between Nazi Germany and its associates on the one hand and the USSR and the Allies on the other.
Even with respect to a 450-page volume, “Barbarossa” by Alan Clark cannot be characterized as the exhaustively full research on the War on the East issue.
Alan Clark points out four main battles his book operates with in detail.
The writing is delightfully clear and decisive, freed from today's historian's overwrought obligation to make the reader understand the Nazis were bad.
Alan Clark was writing at a time when that didn't need to be said, and his assessments of the Nazi leadership are astute and razor sharp.
On the downside, this is old school history writing; almost everything is handled at command and political leadership level, virtually nothing from the man in the street's perspective, the maps are poor, and there are no photos to help a reader identify a name with a face.Bearing that in mind, it is well worth the reading.
With the abundance of evidence from the Russian side garnered over the past thirty years, this book 
A high level view of the Russo - German war. At best when describing the build up, strategy and execution of battle by the armies involved in the summer of 1941. Clark did not investigate some myths, lots of engagments are sketched and we get little individual experience. This being Clark, his personality intrudes into objectivity and their is a certain amount of caricature (mainly of Germans). However the scope is wide and this history serves as a useful introduction to this massive campaign. Surpassed by Beevor's excellent Stalingrad.
A Fantastic Achievement: This is one of the best books on military history I have ever read. The author masterfully and consicely describe the Eastern front. There is not a single wasted sentence. Every detail and idea is choosen so that it illuminates. Given the breadth of task, this book, amazingly enough, manages to give the reader a crystal clear idea of every aspect from 1941 to 1945. My only criticism is about the length of the book. It's too short!
Extremely well-written and thoroughly researched book. At times, the attention to detail could be a little ponderous, but this is a definite must-read for anyone who wants to understand the interaction between personalities, technology, and "boots on mud" in the eastern campaign during World War 2.
An outstanding story of the Russo-German phase of World War II. It is detailed, but does not get overly bogged down into tactical facts and figures. This keeps keeps the thread of the battles intact while also delving into context and the brilliance and stupidity of leaders on both sides. It is a wondrous depiction of one of the greatest set of events in the history of mankind.
The book was hard going but gave a very comprehensive coverage of Eastern campaign. My only complaint would be not sufficient maps. When describing the various military campaigns it would have been very helpful to have the maps referenced which applied to that campaign. P Smith
