https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62004.Sign_of_Chaos
More illegitimate spawn of the Amber family pop up, as does Merlin's mysterious body-swapping aide.
While I find aspects of Merlin's mystery as interesting or more intersting than Corwin's, such as the Ghostwheel and the pattern Corwin created, I feel like the first five books are getting watered down.
Too many people are walking the Pattern and too many are able to create trumps.That's not to say Sign of Chaos is a bad book.
It's full of the intrigue that makes the Amber books great.
Some very surprising developments at the end of this volume, I'm hurrying on to the next book in the series. If you are a fantasy fan and haven't read this series you really should give it a try.
These are getting a tad homogeneous at this point, but still extremely enjoyable. I'm a bit irked by the fact that anytime someone asks how something happens, they get a detailed, exact and completely true response, but it's minor details. I am excited to get closer to the end of the series, and see how it's going to end. Still nowhere near as awesome as the Corwin cycle, but good.
http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
Sign of Chaos marks return to form for Zelazny and his Chronicles of Amber. Anyone who has come this far in the series (this is the eighth book) hardly needs a glowing review to continue reading, but after the somewhat tedious book that preceded it, this one is a welcome improvement.
Merlin is still a bit of a putz.There were a number of times in this novel where I was thinking "No, you idiot, don't trust that person and tell them all your plans...oh, great, you already did it.
Way to go." But in a way, it's pretty cool that, despite the similarities due to the first-person narrative, Merlin is quite a different character than his father was/is(I'm convinced Corwin is still alive out there).
As someone who has trained in several different martial arts and also with the sword, I can say definitively that this man knows what he's writing about when it comes to fighting.
This is where the Merlin stories start to fizzle out, unfortunately.
another damm cliffhanger.
За трети пореден път поемаме към истинския свят Амбър! Очакват ни трите финални романа от едно истинско фентъзи от майстора Роджър Зелазни! „Знакът на Хаоса”, „Рицар на сенките” и „Принц на Хаоса”, обединени под една корица в том 3 от „Хрониките на Амбър”, неминуема част от колекцията „Велики майстори на фентъзи и фантастика” на издателство „Бард”. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
I really should just cut-and-paste one of my three previous reviews of the Amber novels here and be done with it.
Most characters carry over from the previous novel and that left me completely baffled at the end of this one.
The character says, "I can't believe it's blank." My first thought is "Who is blank?" I had no idea!
I did take a bit longer to read this one than previous books, but still.
I thought about it, still no idea.
I think this character was mentioned once or twice in this book.
Selle raamatu huvitavamaid mõtteid võiks olla ehk:"Kui teil oleks võimalik valida kahe võime, vale märkamise ja tõe avastamise vahel, siis kumma te võtaksite? Kunagi ma uskusin, et need on erinevad sõnastused sama asja kohta, aga nüüd ma enam nii ei arva. Näiteks on suurem osa mu sugulastest ühtviisi osavad nii ettekäänete läbinägemises kui nende esitamises. Ma ei ole aga üldse kindel, et nad tõest eriti hooliksid. Teisalt aga on mulle alati tundunud, et tõe otsimises on midagi õilsat, erilist ja auväärset - ning seda püüdsin ma saavutada ka oma Tondirattaga." (lk 34)
3.5 / 5. ავტორი ისევ ცდილობს კორვინს დაამსგავსოს მერლინი, მაგრამ რაღაც აკლია მაინც. რამდენიმე კარგი პერსონაჟი დაემატა. ელისმა და LSD-ს ეპიზოდმაც მოიტანა.ვკითხულობ და ვფიქრობ, რომ მანდორი მერლინისთვის დაახლოებით იგივე სტილის პერსონაჟია როგორც რენდომი კორვინისთვის. მერე დავფიქრდი და Mandor და Random არც თუ ისე რენდომ ანაგრამებია. I see what you did there Roger.
The craziness and extreme imagination of Zelazny continues to shine. The story gets deeper, weirder and cooler. New and interesting characters are introduced in this book. We continue deep down the rabbit hole (inside joke) and the mysteries continue to mount. This series is absolutely phenomenal.
Interesting ending. Not entirely unexpected but the timing and method was a surprise. I also enjoy that the reader never really knows who the good guys and bad guys are with these books, there is always doubt and suspense.
This book is where the 2nd Amber series begins to pick up steam and starts to carry the reader along on the ride, after the first two books tended to plod a bit.
However, in the initial cycle, were we absorbed in his world building, the development of a vast cast of characters, and the lore behind the events around Shadow, Amber, Chaos, and a handful of other worlds, including our Earth.
Sign Of Chaos [1987] (Amber #8; Merlin cycle #3) is a far more complete novel than the two previous; yet, because of the development of those two, still cannot be read as a standalone novel, because of the need for prior knowledge.
Finishing this series is taking an effort. Zelazny was all over the place...incoherent, stream of consciousness (my favorite style...yeah, no), vague...and then painful overly detailed minor scenes, like a wrestling match (not exactly...but I don't like to spoil fiction), or his shadow shifts...and throwing in new characters, which shouldn't be a problem in a lengthy series but kind of is with this one. I think I need to take a break before trying the penultimate, but I don't know if I'll come back...on one hand, I would like to see how this mess ends; on the other...it's a mess.
This entry deserves an extra half star as Zelaznys writing evolved through the series to resemble something more akin to a modern feel.
The story plods on though, losing a little bit of luster with every new character thats introduced and every story line being retread.
There is no real resolution in this book until the final pages, and even then the climax hits too quickly and without enough force.
I've got moderate expectations that the next book will make more sense of the winding, tumultuous plot line that seems to take us deeper into Shadow without first explaining how we got here.
Wow!Finally we are back to the greatness of Corwins stories. The first books behind the eyes of Merlin were a bit of a disappointment but I feel like this fully redeemed him and was a wholly enjoyable read. Tons of magic lots of intrigue, suspense... etc etc!! Merlin seems to really come into his own in this book and it was great to finally see him use all this poser we knew he had.
Un volum plăcut, care continuă aventurile lui Merlin, fiul lui Corwin, introducând noi personaje, noi puteri (ale Curții, combinate cu cele ale Amberului), dar și noi încurcături. Ca în toată seria schimbările de situație sunt frecvente, cu situații la limită, cu personaje ieșite din comun. Finalul este total neașteptat și un pic straniu.
3.5 out of 5I think I may have liked this Amber book more than most of the others. I really disliked the last few books and wasn't going to read this one...but work is boring so I listened to this book. I thought it was well done for the series. I still don't think the series is that great, but at least I liked this book.
Why does merlin keep behaving the way he does. He is naive in the extreme but will doubtless be proven right at the end. Nice twist at the denouement and some intriguing machinations along the way. Two books to go.
Another excellent installment in one of the great fantasy series of all time. Some questions are answered, but more are asked. This series continues, in mant places, to strongly remind me of Michael Moorcock's Eternal Champion series.
4.5 stars.
პირველი ნაწილი უფრო კარგი იყო, განსაკუთრებით ტრიპი და ლუის კეროლი, მაგრამ მერე ფიზიკური და ჯადოსნური მუშტი-კრივის დეტალურმა აღწერებმა მაგრად მომაბეზრა თავი.
Немного суховата. Но внезапная концовка)
The Merlin series in a nutshell:Merlin tells his life story to someone. Something happens. Merlin tells his life story to someone. Something happens. Merlin tells his
i miss Corwin
Very good, but not as awesome as some of the others.
The best of the Merlin series so far, still inferior to the Corwin story.
