https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25740412-the-black-witch
It's obvious to the reader that Elloren has her grandmother's super special power, but she's the definition of clueless and spends most of the book walking around wide-eyed & confused like she was born yesterday.Their religion wants kids to get wandfasted (basically an arranged marriage) as young teens and have their racial purity tested.
And it seems like a typical fantasy book except now everyone's reduced to their race in the most simplistic way.The story goes to seriously absurd lengths to put Elloren in in sad situations...
"People see what they expect to see," he says sharply. "Through a filter of their own hatred and prejudice." I don't really know where to start with this book. I recommend that everyone make themselves aware of the criticisms surrounding The Black Witch, if you are not already. And also be aware that this review is my opinion; I speak for no one but me. If you have a problem with that, don't read on.The Black Witch is, in my opinion, a thoughtful consideration of the prejudices people hold, and
If you have a problem with that, don't read on.The Black Witch is, in my opinion, a thoughtful consideration of the prejudices people hold, and the way upbringing and family can play into our narrow view of the world.
I should point out, though, that all of these things are repeatedly portrayed as inherently wrong, and this book is as sexist as The Handmaid's Tale, or as racist as The Hate U Give.Many people who have blacklisted this book have said that readers read to feel good; to escape the darkness of the real world.
And some people are here losing their mind and calling the author despicable names and they didn't even read the freaking book!!
Who are you to tell authors that they don't have enough ''diverse characters'' and that they HAVE TO have gay, black, white, whatever type of characters?
Who are you to tell them they can't have racist characters or create a bad, bad world?
If my magical world is all white, all black, all gay, all straight, all unicorns, all hate, and all racism, I have the right to make it that way, and you know what, it doesn't make me racist!
I couldn't help but imagine the characters speaking the same way theater performers sometimes do, with so much exaggeration that the performance becomes more of a caricature.It seemed like every situation Elloren got into was "wildly scandalous" or "wildly embarrassing" or "wildly confusing" or "wildly inappropriate." I get it, her people are conservative, but Forest may be in a competition with Maas to see how many times she can use the same word in a single book.As with the world-building, the plot of this story also suffers from a lack of clear focus.
Now that I've read it myself, I can safely say that what happened to this book was wholly undeserved, and very likely perpetrated by a person who saw an opportunity to bolster her own image, while tearing down a debut author at the same time - because who cares if creative expression suffers as long as you prove to your followers how moral you are, right?
I don't mean to imply that I think I have a complete handle on the subject either - but I'm encouraging people to do their own due diligence and find out for themselves, not acting like the creative expression police and asking my followers to torpedo a brand new author's debut book with allegations that are disingenuous at best, and slanderous at worst.
They are all descendants of The Black Witch and uncle is keeping some things hidden from Elloren Then ole evil auntie comes and takes Elloren off to university where her brothers go.
Evil auntie wants Elloren to marry this mage named Lukas.
We have elves, werewolves, selkies, dragons, etc.
Little did evil auntie know, this is the best thing that could have happened to Elloren because she eventually finds out the truth about these creatures and makes friends with many and so do her brothers.
I seriously hope we see Elloren come into her own in the next book.
I've completely re-written this review. If you read the earlier version, maybe take another look? It is really long… sorry about that lol. Part 1 is the review. Part 2 is the discussion of the controversy around this book, re-written based on my thinking of, and discussion around this topic here on GR in the last few weeks.PART ONE- THE REVIEW “People see what they expect to see… Through a filter of their own hatred and prejudice.” 3.5 starsThis is essentially an origin story. Poor stylistic cho
Now people like L.L. are say they don't think white writers should be "allowed" to write about race because they are cashing in on the flux of interest in reading about diverse characters/ settings.
Some of the “protest” behaviour, where people are 1-starring a book with a link to the orginal review are engaging in social proofing, “look I’m a good person who hates racism”.
If you answered (b.) good job, you understand how to read, rate and review novels.
A time when almost every student discovers that a) not everyone believes what you believe and b) some of what you know is wrong.The Black Witch captures that time in the protagonist's life as Elloren leaves the shelter of her rustic uncle's home and goes off to school under the guidance of her politically power aunt.
Elloren has been 'wand-tested' for magic and found lacking, despite the family lineage of powerful mages.
If you enjoy tales of both magic and coming of age and going off to school, this book will satisfy all three of those flavors.
“Elloren,” Aunt Vyvian breathes, “you have grown into the absolute image of your grandmother.”It’s a huge compliment, and I want to believe it. My grandmother was not only one of my people’s most powerful Mages, she was also considered to be very beautiful. This book has an overwhelmingly, unprecedentedly low rating. I suspect it's because of the controversies this book has generated. This is unfortunate, because I believe this book's low rating should be due to the fact that it is painfully ba
This is unfortunate, because I believe this book's low rating should be due to the fact that it is painfully bad, not to mention mind-numbingly dull, rather than anything racially offensive within the book.
3. The fact that all the girls are mean and the meanest most beautiful girl wants the guy who's in lurve with Elloren
The fact that the conflicts between the mythical races in the book are simplistically presented8.
The fact that the beautiful brave main character spends half the fucking book bawling her eyes out9.
The fact that this book is fucking long and a waste of my time.
More hatred comes Elloren’s direction from Fallon Bane, a talented Gardnerian Mage and a romantic rival for Lukas’ attention.At Verpax University Laurie Forest begins delving more deeply into the theme of prejudices, particularly the lies that people can tell each other and themselves about their history, how awful people are who are different from them, and how their own race or nationality is better than any other type.

Oh wait, more than half of you didn't even read the book so,,,, 😑 you can't even argue.Anyways, I'm so glad I read this for myself.
I'm so glad I gave this book a chance because it's one of my favorites now.
I can't believe people are one starring and trashing a book based on ONE persons review, while a bajillion others read it and found nothing problematic about this book.
Honestly, stop rating a book one star without reading it??
I strongly suggest you don't follow the one star trashing of this book and give it a chance because honestly, it's so fucking great.
POC do not need to go through 300 pages of a white-coded girl being racist toward POC-coded characters to know that racism toward us is wrong and awful.
This kind of storyline is written for clueless white people who need hand-holding to realize that prejudice and discrimination is fucked up.
It hurts POC and uses them for the sake of a white girl's character development.
Gross.ETA2: Because people are arguing that this book is "necessary" to understand racism...Even assuming this book uses fictional races as an allegory for POC, it's a horribly constructed and executed allegory.
I have removed my review. The past two weeks discussion over this novel has taken place online and If have a moment please read this review -https://t.co/kCumGwr0hCI have read the entire review! Having thought about this and read Shauna's points, quotes and direct references I can see I have been completely wrong. I also want to add this quote from Shauna.."I'm doing this not to tear down a single person, but to tear down a system that publishes books like #THEBLACKWITCH"The publishing system needs to change.
There's been a lot of discussion around this book and I wanted to indulge my self importance and read it and add my opinion which is what this is so if you disagree that's cool totally tell me but I just want to say that if you are just going to tell me that I don't know something or I'm ignorant I'm just going to get defensive and mean and I don't want to be mean I really do try to be nice and reasonable but I get riled up if I feel like I'm being attacked so lets just try to keep this pleasant and please try to actually explain what you think instead of just telling me I'm shit because I already I'm shit so thanks.
4.5 stars Review to comeBuddy-read with these truth seekers:The one who puts my reading to shameThat other guyHoly crap this book is actually pretty awesomeFor the majority it is definitely a slow build and a character driven story but I actually like slow build stories and character driven stories so ...
this is not a negative for me.
For others who might not like these things this could be a bit of a drag for you.BUT HOLY CRAP THIS BOOK IS AWESOME!AND THAT ENDING!?!?!AND DRAGONS?!?!AND WAR ON THE HORIZON?!I am SO crazy excited for book 2 like seriouslyoh and as an afterthought ....
yeah this book is not glorifying racism homophobia or anything offensive at all so you can get that out of your system.>>>>>
I didn't realize until after I'd actually started reading this exactly how far people's hatred of this book went.
#stillnotseeingracism61%If this book is racist, then why would the author choose to have one of Elloren's professors say something like this:All that wyvern blood floating around," he explains, "interferes rather inconveniently with cherished ideas of racial purity.
It seems like those people who have issues with this book have seen what they expected to see, through their own filters, which is highly ironic.
To see this review and others please visit www.readrantrockandroll.comThe Black Witch by Laurie Forest is a coming of age story about a girl named Elloren Gardner.
I saw this on Netgalley and the cover and blurb pulled me in.The story begins with Elloren, the granddaughter of a Black Witch, Carnissa Gardner.
If you can get past two-thirds of the book and witness how Elloren's character starts changing, you'll understand why I think the author wrote it this way.
I definitely don't think the author wrote the story this way to celebrate these types of behaviors and feel like by the end of the story everything comes together.
I think it's really crappy that people are throwing out 1 stars for no reason without reading, so to counteract one of those people that is why I am changing mine to a 5 because it's messed up. If you read the book and totally hated it that's fine, but cmon now to those that threw out a 1 for no reason.
It was hard not to empathize and draw comparisons to reality, but with Elloren's resilience and steadfastness, you can't help but feel hopeful and have faith in people.I'm still thinking about these characters thirteen hours later, and all I want to do is grab a cup of tea and delve right back into the book.
I rarely want to reread a story, but the richness of this one has me thinking I had to have missed something the first time through.
Well, that's the excuse I'll be using to reread it anyway...not that I need one ;)Book 2 cannot come fast enough!
I'm adding something to this review: TBW was the first and only book I rated without having read it.
I trusted the opinion of someone who had read it and chose to rate it negatively because I believed that person was right.
I felt pressured, in a way, and acted out accordingly.
Yes, it’s good and it’s recommended to be informed, to look for different opinions, to learn, to get educated - but don’t forget your voice in all of this.I believe everyone has a right to read what they want, to consume whatever media they choose and to form a personal opinion about it.
Look no I haven't read it, but I am done with bullshit weirdly racist white savior books.
Fantasy as a genre needs to fucking step up, and not use white as their go to race.
I'm like really not ok w racially offensive language in fantasy books under the guise that it is a "made up race" and "the MC doesn't know better".
If you want to write a racist MC make it blatant to the reader that they are a bad person, that they are a bad person even after they learn that their race isn't "pure".
Fuck this book.
Update #3: Okay, so people have pointed out the author has children of colour who have read the book as sensitivity readers.
It is not their fault that the author wrote a garbage truck full of all the -isms & -phobics.
Do not even think about blaming children for the authors mistakes.
The fault lies with the author and the whole team behind the book.
Agents should have caught it.Update#2: No one cares Erin.Oh hey, update (#1), Shauna wrote an in depth review.
Read it here.Listen, there's all kind of red flags from reviews about the blatant racism in this book.
was shared in regards to The Black Witch, I chose not to comment because I wanted to listen and see how the book was perceived by those who are likely better judges than I am.
Then again I didn't like the protagonist enough to ship her with anyone so...As disjointed as this review probably is, I'm not sure I could really discuss this book without going on a novel-length tangent about one thing or another so I hope this makes so sense.
Right on the first page it shows how she's been raised to think: "The evil Icaral-demons." Her Aunt doesn't help this way of thinking either when it comes to other races, calling other races 'heretic races' (page 47), They may look like humans, Elloren, but they aren't." (Page 53) So this is the kind of viewpoint that she had been made to see for 17 years.
"I think of her treatment of the little girl and can't help myself." (Page 81) Then she arrives at Verpax University and even some of the others there don't help her in seeing the truth any faster, she's bullied when she first starts work at the kitchen by people just as prejudice as Elloren is.
"Real education doesn't make your life easy. It complicates things and makes everything messy and disturbing. But the alternative, Elloren Gardner, is to live your life based on injustice and lies." Okay, so here's the deal. There are a plethora of long reviews (both bad & good) going over this book. So, I have decided to make this as to the point as possible. Before I start, let me just say one thing. I am incredibly glad that I read the book instead of heeding the reviews imploring people
I am incredibly glad that I read the book instead of heeding the reviews imploring people to stop supporting the writer & publisher.The Story-Elloren Gardner comes a family that is descendant of a famous mage that essentially lead a revolution against the races that were controlling and killing their kind.
Throughout the book she has to deal with the pleasures and ramifications of her genial history.
Forest did such a wonderful job integrating all these races and creating history for each of them.
The fact the Elloren changes at all is a miracle since every other race is pretty much super awful to her.
Edit 7/18/17 : The Iron Flower is the title for book two in The Black Witch Chronicles, coming June 2018 ❗ Srsly, I'm so excited 😊 5 STARS ❗ “Real education doesn't make your life easy. It complicates things and makes everything messy and disturbing. But the alternative, Elloren Gardner, is to live your life based on injustice and lies.” I'm going to start this review off by saying that The Black Witch by Laurie Forest was absolutely brilliant. Now, this is merely my own opinion and you can disa
I'm going to start this review off by saying that The Black Witch by Laurie Forest was absolutely brilliant.
I loved this book and I'm not going to let anyone tell me otherwise.
Though he was pretty much absent more than 2/3 of the book, from what we learn about him at the beginning, I honestly don't know his motive regarding Elloren.
The Black Witch by Laurie Forest is ultimately one of the most amazing and well-thought out books I have ever read.
Don't let the low ratings and other people's opinions control if you want to read this book or not.
Was the author trying to make Lukas Grey seem attractive to the reader?Because he really just comes across as a privileged, entitled, douche bag.
And then later after Elloren has just said she needs to stay away from him and is LITERALLY stepping backwards away from him, he 'binds' her with a spell to pull her closer to him and starts getting all kissy-kissy with her neck and chuckling.
One of the main tensions in the book is Elloren and a nasty, bitchy girl fighting over the terrible Lukas Grey.
And all that nothing happened at an incredibly slow pace.
Four Stars!I don't want to start this review in a negative way at all, but I really do need to say something about the rating of this book from people who haven't even read it and based their opinions from other peoples reviews.
So here is Bentley's Review everything he says is SO accurate, so please read.Moving swiftly on...What did I like?- I think we got a lot of back story, but not too much so we can find out more in the next book!- So we see Elloren as all high and mighty (and not very likeable to begin with her actions are questionable) BUT her development as a character was just undeniable.
I'm absolutely convinced that 99% of the people who gave this book a 1-star rating didn't actually read it.
I thought The Black Witch brilliantly showed how despicably ignorant people can gradually begin to see things in a different way with further life experience and exposure to opposing viewpoints.
But sometimes to truly feel the full impact of how a person can change for the better, you have to experience the hateful feelings first-hand through the main character's head by way of dialogue.
I thought The Black Witch was amazing and plan on reading book 2 as soon as I can get my hands on a copy.
