https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/709882.The_Skylark_of_Space
Not recommended for: people without a sense of humour.The Skylark of Space is undoubtedly one of the most important novels in the history of SF - as 'the first space opera', it and and the author's later novels (Skylark was his debut work) held, alongside predecesors like Verne, Wells and Burroughs, an immense influence over at least one generation of writers.
you can also see why it inspired a generation of authors who thought they could do the same thing but better.You can read a fuller review over here!.
However, evil rival chemist and cohorts build their own lesser spaceship, kidnap his fiancee, and adventures occur.Two of my favorite moments in the book:1: the marriage chapter.
Also, a large part of the officiant's speech involves going into how our heroes are a sign from the First Cause that their civilization is truly fated to righteously utterly genocide the planet's enemy civilization.
The reader must assume that the genocide bit was some of what made Space Marriage much more beautiful than the terrestrial variety.
The Skylark of Space reads like a comic strip or an old Flash Gordon serial.
Doc Smith makes no bones at all about white men being inherently better than any other kind of men or of women, for that matter.The best way I can describe it is that this book is like a fatty steak swimming in bleu cheese sauce to a man with a cholesterol count of 375.
It is an irresponsible book, yes--but damn if it isn't fun.I read this book in a weekend, but not just because I was interested.
"Doc" Smith's novel The Skylark of Space did for the science fiction genre.
It's widely considered the first space opera novel and the influence it had on future works is quite apparent.
It certainly sounds more outdated than the tales of other early 20th century science fiction/pulp authors such as Edgar Rice Burroughs and H.G. Wells, whose writings translate fairly well to modern times.
While The Skylark of Space showcased revolutionary ideas when it was written, it's not a very good novel to be read in today's world, especially with more impressive literary work coming from the same time period.
Each book is a neat obsolesence of the previous, where a new threat appears that is an entire order of magnitude greater, that requires the development of an entirely new field of science building upon the last, that results in a technological and engineering achievement entirely beyond what previously existed, and which wipes out that threat.
It's the pure daydreams of a frustrated engineer: problems will be solved by the straightforward application of brain energy and inspiration, and the muddle that is the business world and government will be cut through by hard-talking men who Can Get Things Done.
Storyline: 1/5Characters: 2/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 2/5This pulp science fiction novel begins with our Ph.D. wielding protagonist applying mysterious metallic solutions haphazardly to objects to see what happens.
It is in the first sentence, and the mystery metal is called - I kid you not - "X".
Still, I was prepared for some old school science and outlandish technological discoveries (and it was 1928, so allowances must be made).
Metal X, however, was only the beginning.
Discoveries and repercussions increase at an exponential rate after the introduction of the mystery metal.
Smith must have been aiming to compress all science fiction ideas, past and future, into a single 176-page volume.
Written almost one hundred years ago, and first published in 1928, the Skylark of Space is one of the great pioneering works of science fiction.
diatribes on the use of platinum in jewellery?), yes the language and attitudes need "looking past", but given this was written long before the invention or understanding of many things we take for granted - television, computers etc.While not great storytelling by todays standards, this is a book that every science fiction fan should read at least once.
This was Dr. Smith's first book and is still a good read even after eighty-seven years.
There is a lot of action but also moments when Seaton is trying to explain what is happening and why.
Some may find these moments boring but they are part of the charm of the book.
Dr. Smith (he was a Ph.D.) is generally considered to be the father of 'space opera'.
To those who do like to be preached at by their choice of fiction reading, and who have an imaginative bent then give this one a try.
The grandest space opera in the entire genre of one man against the universe: in which the hero Dick
I'm listening to Uvula Audio's fine reading as this comes out in weekly installments.Still not a fan of E.E. Doc Smith. However, I AM a fan of Uvula Audio so I'm not sorry for taking the time to listen to the book.
I listened to this from Librivox while commuting back and forth from work.
That said, it wasn't hard to get used to and he conveyed the story well enough.
That's a book that was started over 100 years before I listened to it.
DuQuesne is a match for Seaton.
(FYI: Flash Gordon came out in 1934)DuQuesne builds his own ship and kidnaps Dorothy, Seaton's fiancee.
I found the story a lot of fun and truly appreciated how ground-breaking it was.
DuQuesne might be the best villain I've read in a long while.
I'm listening to the second book now and also enjoying it.
After reading 'Skylark' there is little doubt in my mind that this is one of the two most influential science fiction books of the 20th century (the other being Olaf Stapledon's 'Last and First Men' (1930)).To enjoy this book, first conceived by the author in 1915, you need to set aside modern social sensibilities, and be forgiving with regard to the science.
Just as Stapledon was clearly a profound influence on the writings of the more cerebral strand of science fiction authors like Arthur C Clarke and Doris Lessing, so 'Doc' Smith's influence on more gutsy writers like Heinlein can be recognised as soon as you read 'Skylark'.
There's a portion in the second half near the middle where the book kind of turns into a romance and goes on and on about the marriage and seriousness of the marriage and I think the author is trying to showcase the differences between our culture in the alien culture but good Lord it just goes on and on forever.
I found myself skipping ahead so that I wasn't forced to read about their marriage vows.Other than that the book is fairly good if outdated.
If nothing else this book serves as an interesting perspective on the genre of Science Fiction and how it began.
This book is “very old” science fiction.
It was written between 1915 and finished in 1920.
The primary characters are Richard (Dicky) Seaton, Martin R.
Crain, Dorothy Vaneman (Dottie) ( Seaton's fiancee), and Margaret.
He tries to duplicate his experiment with friends watching, and fails.
This book is “pre-television, pre-laser, pre-NASA, and pre-nuke.” The space suits are made of “leather”.
DuQuesne tries to steal Seaton's discovery for himself but finds out that Seaton is still one up on him.
Some science fiction readers will like the book.
I give it high marks since it was written before 1920.
In an age when soldiers were the epitome of the American ideal, and the geek subculture had the additional heroes in scientists, enter Seaton who is a bit of both.
Or at least if it does, it gets promptly fixed.
The Skylark, an impossible ship made to work with impossible tech just keeps getting better and saves the day even against lesser skylarks.
In addition the goodness of the heroes unquestionably and inevitably triumph over the evil Duquesne.By today's standard this book is hopelessly cheesy and clean to the point of insanely predictable.

Pulpy Space opera Goodness...The good guys are good beyond belief, the bad guys help out sometimes too...But these remind me SO much of the old flash gordon, Matinee at the Bijou kinda stuff I cant help but LOVE them
It is a long time since I read this, but it definitely belongs at the top of any space opera list. This was the original of the species, biblical in scale and very enjoyable. It would be interesting to revisit this and see if it was the thundering read I found it to be when I was 19.
You can skip chapters four through nine, so why not skip the whole mess?
Museum piece. Oh, and helps me understand the whole 1930s 'Pulp Ghetto' thing ...
While the Skylark books are not as awesome as Smith's Lensman series it is still a very good classic Space opera style classic SiFi series by one of the masters. Very recommended
Fascinating!I thoroughly enjoyed this book even though science fiction is not at all my genre. Imagine having read it in 1928 when the book first came out! A real page turner!
The chemical can also help build incredible ships to send people into space at incredible speeds!
It took me a little bit to get into at first and I had to reread a lot of the first couple chapters a few times to make sense of it.
I had to reread quite a few times to see who's viewpoint I was in.
It also took me awhile to realize that the two discoverers did not work for the greedy company.
It was still an amazing read.
I read somewhere that it was written in the 1920's.

The dialog is wooden, the characters tend to be caricatures, the narrative is at best serviceable and at its worst downright clumsy.The story itself is both somewhat silly and a decent adventure yarn, with bits of comic relief.
The science — well, it's far-fetched but Smith does take time to explain things.
But the science exists just so our characters can go on an adventure and that's quite okay with me.More than once I spotted bits that seemed inspired by Edgar Rice Burroughs.
That's okay too; one could do far worse.
'Skylark' seems a bit of a bridge between those planetary romances of Burroughs and 'hard' SF.
I read this one, the first of the author's "Skylark" novels, in one of the summers between college semesters, if I remember correctly.
He began writing it, I have read, around 100 years ago.
The copy I read was a 1958 Pyramid, revised edition - exactly how it was revised, I don't know.
Regardless, it was a good romp of a read with the heroes, Richard Seaton & Martin Crane making the discoveries which allow them to build a space ship.
The book is a product of its era and should be read and enjoyed as such.
Something must have been in the water when they were preparing the August, 1928 issue of Amazing Stories because that issue has both the first installment of "The Skylark of Space", and the first "Buck Rogers" novel, "Armageddon 2419 A.D."Skylark is the first "space opera" novel with a crew flying around the universe, stopping at different planets, and encountering different life forms. This book is jam packed. There's everything from industrial espionage, kidnapping and murder to being lost in space, dinosaurs and wars on other worlds.This is a "read."
Golden and great oldieFirst of four Skylark books. Space opera by a master of sci-fi from the heyday of the genre. Spaceships, interstellar travel, new planets, people, culture and dangers from humans, space and aliens. A book, series and author I return to time after time. Terrific stuff.
This book is old and dated but the story was engaging, funny, imaginative and fascinating. Considered one of the foundational sparks that kicked off the imaginations of future generations of scifi writers, it is also a rollicking read. Highly recommended to anyone interested in early 20th century scifi.
Really enjoyed reading this, especially as it was written just after the Great War (WW1). Great science for that time, and the story itself, while a bit soppy in places, was well written and exciting.
