https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25005214-queen-song
"There is nothing so terrible as a story untold." Queen Song is one of the novellas of Red Queen series. Here, we are told about the backstory of Queen Coriane, the mother of Prince Cal from Red Queen. Coriane belongs to the Silver blood, under the House Jacos-- a not-so-well-endowed clan compared to other Silver bloods. She writes her life events in a dairy and conveys her emotions there. Her ordinary life changed when Prince Tibe, heir to the court of Norta, fell in love with her and asked he
"There is nothing so terrible as a story untold." Queen Song is one of the novellas of Red Queen series.
Here, we are told about the backstory of Queen Coriane, the mother of Prince Cal from Red Queen.
This led to conflicts and certain intrigues that tested Coriane's strength and belief while carrying her crown as a Queen.It's Victoria Aveyard's flawless and breathtaking writing style that made me embrace this novella.
I loved how the simple plotline surprisingly became extraordinarily beautiful in the end.The romance between Coriane and Tibe was sweet and raw, heartbreaking at times.
It's nice to know Coriane's story after she was mysteriously mentioned in Red Queen.
HOLY SHIT. That cover. ........WHY HAVE I NOT KNOWN ABOUT THIS?? GIMME!
=D-	I liked that Prince Tibe chose Coriane because he truly loved her and didn’t give a damn about Queenstrial.
*lol*-	The way Coriane loved everything about her little baby boy Cal!
In conclusion as always a few quotes I liked:“She walked the city many times in hopes of finding a place she enjoyed, somewhere to anchor her in the newly tossing sea of her life.She found no such place – instead she found a person.”“The boy was the sun in Coriane’s sky.
“She destroyed the book like she destroyed Coriane.And she dreamed of nothing.”
5 Heart Breaking ★'s “She was happy, yes, in her own way, as best as she knew.But there’s a difference between a single candle in darkness and a sunrise.”Oh my goodness, this whole damn novella was so gosh darn sad!
From beginning to end I felt my heart getting heavier and heavier with heartache for Coriane.
It was also nice getting to see that Prince Tibe chose Coriane because he truly unwaveringly loved her, Queenstrial be damned!
Because Cal was all he had felt of the Women he loved.
The Red Queen World.
Reds, blesed with purpose to their lives.And Coriane's final...
(c)Q:She walked the city many times in hopes of finding a place she enjoyed, somewhere to anchor her in the newly tossing sea of her life.
“Any other frightening notions to share?” (c)Q:The cage of the capital was not a happy place for Coriane.Nor Tiberias Calore.
(c)Q:She thought that every time, and she was always wrong.
Coriane wanted to believe her.
You are queen of everything, mother to a beautiful son, wife to a king who loves you, and still you cannot find it in yourself to smile.
***3,5 stars for me*** While i was reading the "Red queen", i catched myself many times to thinking about the previous queen, Cal's mother, Coriane!!!And with that novel, i took a glimpse of her life before she become queen and after...It didn't reveal too much about her death, but as i was pretty sure i knew who was the guilty of that crime!!!I liked that i learned about how was her life before goes to court and i liked the fact that the Prince fell in love with her and didn't care for anythin

Basically, Queen Song is about a depressed, sad girl with a diary. She thought herself as nothing. It's like Juliette Ferrars all over again. And that's it. The end. Just kidding. Lol.I think this novella is quite unnecessary. I don't particularly care about Corianne Jacos. I'm sorry. I admit I quite care about her diary but boy, I'm disappointed because it is just of full of angsty monologues and narratives. I anticipated that I will get secrets or anything but no. *sighs*I like the ending anyway so 2 stars.
"These golden walls will be my tomb."  Very interesting.This short story is told from Coriane's perspective when she was a young adult.Well,we mostly know her as Cal's mother.We get to find out how she met her husband Tiberias and how she handled being a Queen.  "I am not the monster the gossips think me to be.I’ve done nothing,manipulated no one."  Also,there's Robert and young Julian ♥!
Queen Song (Red Queen 0.1), Victoria Aveyardتاریخ نخستین خوانش: پنجم سپتامبر سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: آواز ملکه - کتاب 0.1 از مجموعه ملکه سرخ؛ نویسنده: ویکتوریا آویارد؛ مترجم: محمدصالح نورانی زاده؛ تهران، کتابسرای تندیس؛ 1394؛ در 79 ص؛ مصور؛ شابک: 9786001821905؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 21 مدر این نوولا میخوانیم: چطور ملکه کورین، همسر نخست پادشاه تایبریاس، داستان زندگی اش را در دفترچه خاطراتی مخفی نگهداری میکند ــ وگرنه چطور میتواند مطمئن باشد که کسی از افکارش در برابر خودش استفاده ن

Cal’s flame will build and bring roots from the ashes of war.
Queen Song is a novella about The deceased Queen Coriane, the mother of Cal. This confirm that Elara is a bitch in all the extension of the word!!
And this pulled me out of some doubts, I really hope that in Glass Sword tell us more about House Jacos and the powers of the silvers.
Also I love the words Coriane write in her diary about Cal and the love she had for him and her desire for that he will change the things when he reign.
"He was the prince. the future king. And she was no one at all, a limp excuse for a Silver daughter of a High House."  This novella was clever. I have been so curious with the first queen, Cal's mother story. All we got to know her was that she was the king's first wife, a Singer, Julian's sister and the queen before the cold-hearted Elara took over. It was written on a third-person point of view given the fact that Queen Coriane has already past away - wasn't expecting that. I thought that thi
I have been so curious with the first queen, Cal's mother story.
It was like a Cinderella story, only Coriane was not a slave, although they are poor, they still belong to a High House with a Silver Blood and instead of a wicked Step-mother, we got here instead a wicked/evil queen wanna be in Elara.
She likes to down herself a lot even before she met the crowned prince, always moping around feeling sorry for herself, for the dream she wouldn't be able to live, she was weak.
It's okay, I didn't need my heart anyway.
WHAAAAAAAT?!?!?Here we go bitches! xDI really liked Red Queen, also i'm in love with this series. First one is surprised me because that was really good and i think Red Queen is my favorite book in 2015. I can not describe with words what I feel.I wonder what did she write in this novella but i bet this novella will be A-W-E-S-O-M-E!Soooooo I can not wait guys. Can someone invent time machine? :v. :'(
Coriane , I love you so much.
Aunque también es muy inteligente en ciertas cosas, le gusta armar y desarmar cosas para descubrir como funcionan; inclusive siente fascinación por los RED, admira su trabajo, los envidia un poco porque ellos tienen un propósito en la vida, aunque sea solo servir, pero ella no tiene ninguna meta.
Por circunstancias del destino, en una fiesta royal, ella conoce al príncipe Tiberias el cuarto o quinto (whatever) el punto es que después de eso ellos se hacen amigos.
La historia es bonita porque nos muestra que los padres de Cal se amaron, pero también es triste porque nos muestra la crueldad de lo que Elara le hizo a Coriane.
Tengo que decir que los personajes me gustaron, Alara es un personaje que me gusto mucho desde Red Queen ella es tan mala y cruel, Robert me encanto, y algo que me costó mucho fue conectar con la historia y eso que solo tenemos 6 capítulos, la historia de Coriane fue tan trágica y triste, sentirse atrapada, que tu familia no tenga nada a pesar de estar en la clase alta y es totalmente comprensible porque vemos un personaje un poco amargado, en este libro nos vamos a encontrar con una protagonista joven y vamos viendo su evolución en el libro, la evolución entre Tiberias y Coriane y en cómo esta termino siendo su esposa, siempre quise saber que fue lo que paso con ella ya que en Red Queen nos dicen que murió de una forma “misteriosa” pero al leer este libro, vamos a descubrir algo impactante.
Pleaseeee, be a Maven's POV
5 out of 10ревью на русском/review in russianThe start was really confusing: it seemed like the language wasn't English at all - very hard to read and enjoy. But on the chapter #2 I had recognized Victoria's old style, it was a relief. The story itself is indeed sad, we all know that Coriane will be dead and Elara will take her place. At the start I thought that Cal's mother was a brat and angsty chick, but I loved her later. It was interesting to see young Tiberias the Sixth and his parents, b
5 out of 10ревью на русском/review in russianThe start was really confusing: it seemed like the language wasn't English at all - very hard to read and enjoy.
At the start I thought that Cal's mother was a brat and angsty chick, but I loved her later.
It was interesting to see young Tiberias the Sixth and his parents, but I was happier when Cal was born.
Such a shame this story wasn't about this fat and cute baby) Overall, the bonus is nice (not super necessary but totally not a waste of time).
It is always fun when author's give us this look inside a character, whether they be good or evil but I must admit, its the evil ones, that really stand out and get my attention.To be inside their heads, even from a distance as is the case in this story, just fascinates me and really does add depth to the character.
I thoroughly enjoyed it and thought it was a great addition to the series.
To see how it all started, how it all came about, was a treat and I can't wait to dive into book two now.
Não sou grande fã de contos mas resolvi ler este por recomendação de uma amiga e porque tem a ver com os livros de uma saga que estou a ler presentemente. Trata-se de uma espécie de diário da rainha mãe de um dos protagonistas dos livros d'A Rainha Vermelha. Gostei do inicio, de saber o que estava por detrás da saga em si mas gostava que apesar de ser um conto, o final estivesse um pouco mais desenvolvido
OMG I didn't even know that book, finished Red Queen this morning and expecting a date for the second book ... And now I discover THIS novel ? On 1st septembre 2015 ?! Gosh, it made my day !CAN'T WAIT
Wonderful. Sad. Very interesting.Great addition to the Red Queen world!
Wow, I really liked reading this novella from Coriane's perspecive, especially in regards to her descent. I think I would have enjoyed this more if I had reread RED QUEEN, but I think this was better than STEEL SCARS.
This was amazing but so heartbreaking. Victoria WHY MUST YOU DO THIS TO ME?! I LOVE YOU BUT WHY! *cries*
To those who have read Red Queen, Queen Coriane is the mother of Prince Cal. She's a Silver blood and came from House Jacos, a not really famous clan compared to the other Silver bloods.
I pity Queen Coriane how she had trouble with her carriage and she got pregnant for the fourth time at the age of 21 and finally had a baby, who turns out to be the precious Prince Cal.
But whatever it is, I'm glad that Prince Cal survived :)Definitely recommending this to those who enjoyed Red Queen and are interested to know the backstory of Prince Cal's mother, Queen Coriane.
This novella blew my mind!!
I already hated Elara but now I realise how psycho crazy she truly was.
I loved reading about the relationship between Tibe and Coriane!
It was so cute, not at all like the king we know from the other books in the series.
Ugh this book was just too short!Also her love for baby Cal was the cutest thing ever.
Honestly there needs to be a sequel to this novella!
I need more Julian and Sara and I want to know what happend after the last chapter!
Those bits and pieces of information from the other books are not enough!
Blog review:https://katiesjumbledthoughts.wordpre...This was a really great addition to the story. It was very interesting to see the beginning of everything. I hate Elara even more now, which shouldn't be possible because I hope she dies horribly. This wasn't the best, and was not nearly as good as Red Queen but it's a novella and you have to keep that in mind.
3,5 STARS!!!"These golden walls will be my tomb."Short story about Cal's mother, Coriane.
I don't think this short story would add something important to the history of the Red Queen. It is irrelevant and dispensable.
هیچ چیز بدتر از داستانی که گفته نشده ، وجود نداره... و خب ، این هم داستان ملکه ی آوازخوان بود و شاید پیش درآمدی نه خیلی مناسب برای سری ملکه ی سرخ .//
