https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1491456.Life_at_the_Dakota
could only have been better if i was reading it while sitting in my apt in the Dakota....
This book is from 1979 (I looked into this because it talks about John Lennon like he's alive, though he was shot outside the Dakota in 1980). It is cool that a non fiction book of this vintage is available for Kindle. This tells a great history of Manhattan (gets boringish talking about all the people who lived there).
This was an interesting history lesson, not just on the Dakota, but on New York.
I can't help it, I love to read about real estate and zany rich people. This one from 1979 is wonderfully entertaining. I was even captivated by the minutiae of the Dakotans going co-op. The ending was a tiny bit depressing, what with the way the building was deteriorating. I gasped in horror at the mention of people tearing down their walnut paneling and painting over their fireplaces, although it is difficult to lament the changing of the times when it comes to social attitudes. I'm sure the Dakota is as elitist today as ever, but hopefully not as discriminatory.
The history of the building and descriptions of the interiors are fascinating to me, given that I am crazy about cozy, byzantine spaces.
However, no pictures of anything much inside the building is disappointing.The descriptions of the tenants and their behavior though, are really off-putting.
It seems likely that the author either intended this to be a book primarily for the tenants of the building or was given such free access to the tenants and the building to write his book on the condition of having to basically write a vanity project for the tenants.
The author did quite a bit of research as well as interviews with residents and staff, resulting in a fascinating look at this New York icon and its residents.
Over the years, the Dakota has been home to many notables, celebrities and elitists.
Yet I found the most interesting person of all was someone I had never heard of before, Mihajlo (Michael) Pupin.
I found the books excerpts from an interview with him absolutely fascinating and had to research him further.
An interesting side note, reading this not quite 40-year old book showcased the changes in our society in the last 40 years.
When built, it was so far north from "everything," New Yorkers told its builder it might as well be in the territories.
The parts I enjoyed most were about East vs West sides, the era of the 1880's, its construction details, and residents of its earlier days.
Also, John Lennon was still alive, and his and Yoko Ono's presence was example of what was seen as a new order not exactly welcome by some.
I wish there was some update on the building's life available.
Zillow searches indicate the building has definitely held its mystique.
Interesting but outdated. Book was written in 1979. But it was recently featured on Amazon so I purchased it without realizing how old it was. Would have liked more current info.
So much more than the history of a building. An amazing social history of west side Manhattan.History as entertaining as any fiction could be. The slight disorganization is entirely forgiveable because Steven Birmingham's writing is brilliant. He leads us on an exploration of New York culture over a hundred year span. The book is a detailed history of the architecture and development of the building, but also an intimate look at the residents over time.
gossipy story of one of nyc most famous addresses. typical birmingham. published in 1979. curious about the last 37 years.
A fun factual account of the building and its inhabitants.
The book is about the Dakota, the apartment building where John Lennon was killed in 1980.
The book was originally published in 1979 and the version I read had no update, although there is a newer version published in 2015 that I would guess has an update.
I didnt realize that it was written before Lennon's death until I was reading it as if he was still alive and then looked at the publishing date.
This book is at its best when it is talking about the inhabitants of the building.
This is an interesting book if you are interested in New York buildings.

The first half of this book was excellent! It gave a pretty good detailed history of New York City in the 1800s and 1900s, as well as how the Dakota building came to be, the men involved and the history of that building moving forward. The second half of the book was incredibly detailed information about tenants, mysterious and difficult situations and pieces of letters and Diaries from the tenants. The second part it wasn't my favorite... But that's just me. I would absolutely recommend the first 80 pages of the book!
It took four years to build from `1880-1884, it was, and still is a monument to New York City's image of love and care of older structures. It continues to be the home of many famous people. Most people heard of this building because John Lennon, and Yoko Ono lived there, and John was shot at the front of the building.It was interesting to learn of the building, but I thought the book tended to drag for too many pages.
It took four years to build from `1880-1884, it was, and still is a monument to New York City's image of love and care of older structures. It continues to be the home of many famous people. Most people heard of this building because John Lennon, and Yoko Ono lived there, and John was shot at the front of the building.It was interesting to learn of the building, but I thought the book tended to drag for too many pages.
Fascinating book about the Dakota. The author spends a lots of time describing the building and interiors, floor layouts, fixtures, etc., but the text would have been better served by photographs and illustrations of those items.
Interesting but slow and a little outdated since it was published in 1979.
Fairly interesting, but after the historical parts, it read mostly like a poorly-written gossip column.
A great read for lovers of New York and/or eccentric people.
This was kind of interesting in the beginning when it told of the beginning of the Dakota and what New York City was like at that time, but after a while it got rather tedious and boring. I really didn't want to know that much, I guess. I began to question some of the facts. When I read that Columbia University approached Dwight Eisenhower to become the university's president by mistake when they really meant the invitation to go to Dwight's brother Milton, I knew I couldn't trust what Birmingham was saying.
Loved this book! Birmingham writes about the building of the Dakota. Who lives there now and who had lived there in the past and their stories. Fascinating history of New York as well.
Its seems to me most any time you get a group of people together on something the squabbling eventually begins.
We endured this over a community well that was on our property and we loved that place but began to loathe everyone who wanted to squabble.
Some people moved into the Dakota with its fabulous old architecture and immediately began to tear it down so old mantles, cornices, etc went out.
The people who did these things should NOT have moved into the Dakota.
Some of them wanted modern apartments so they should have moved there.
It's exclusivity doesn't allow many people to see these sides of it, but in Life at the Dakota: New York's Most Unusual Address, Stephen Birmingham gives everyone a glimpse at the luxury life that was originally referred to as Clark's Folly.
This book does a good job at covering the history of Edward Clark, the building's founder, as well as the building itself.
What you won't discover in this book is anything to do with modern-day living in the Dakota.
I didn't realize that this was not a comprehensive history of the building until about halfway through the book, when you realize some of the living tenants the author interviewed are long gone.
This was an entertaining social history of the Dakota apartment building in New York.
Who knew that early apartment buildings & hotels were frowned upon because they were so much like the tenements of the day?
The exterior of the building has been used in a couple of movies, Rosemary's Baby most notably, but they don't allow filming inside.This is an enjoyable, if not terribly scholarly, book.
This former Long Islander was going to college in upstate NY when John Lennon was assassinated.
Lennon was a real hero to my boyfriend at the time, so I was affected by John Lennon's death.
The Dakota has therefore been a symbolic icon.
I was interested to learn more about the Dakota.
Whenever I hear Christine Lavin's song "Every Time I see the Dakota", I get teary.
The book had some interesting history about New York real estate, societal values of the east side vs the west side, and dynamics of wealthy apt living neighbors.
Oh the history.
Walk through timeThis is a well written walk through New-York-City-time as seen through the eyes of The Dakota, a luxury apartment building on the west side of Central Park.
The philosophy of its beginnings in the 1880's; the reality of its evolution to the 1970's; the people, politics, shenanigans, and parties all come together in a tightly written narrative.
The stories of its occupants--famous and non-famous alike--are entertaining and mirror the economic, political, philosophical and social mores of their day.
Read it in bits or at one sitting, either way, you'll finish with an appreciation of "that odd looking building facing Central Park, you know, the one where John Lennon was living when he died."
A couple of years ago, I walked along it's sidewalk and saw the gated courtyard.
I snapped photos.This is a hotel steeped in tradition, holds a high-drama vibe, and is a rich source of true stories, and myth, and legendWritten in an enjoyably relaxing style, I was fascinated to learn the identity of the original builders.
Stephen Birmingham has conducted meticulous research and tells many a story about the building's interesting, irritating, or famous inhabitants.I liked that Birmingham treated the Dakota as a character.This is the perfect summer read for those who heart New York as I do.
FunMy initial interest was due to the Singer Sewing Machines connection, but as I read further, it became more and more interesting. Life in the Dakota's days was lived differently than today; time travel is wonderful via books. Understanding co-op structure was useful to me. Like my friend Kasa who also reviewed this, I too began to fade at the gossipy portion and I prob could have stopped reading; the book was not as satisfying after that. My head still reels from visions of the maze of rooms at the top floor(s) where servants once lived.
A Most Interesting HomeI would recommend this book to readers who like architectural history. The Dakota has a unique exterior and inhabitants. It is quite fascinating it is still in existence today. Yes, it is a one of a kind landmark. It should be preserved, but it is complicated and monetarily difficult for the residents to do so. If it is not properly maintained one day it will cease to exist and that would be a shame.
A very interesting history of The Dakota, and by extension, the history of New York City, from the late 19th century. There is an eerie feeling reading this, as it was first published in 1978, while John and Yoko were living there, and before John was murdered in front of the Dakota in 1980.And on occasion, the author made personal observations which revealed his own snobbishness.Still, I did enjoy this very much.
