https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/863761.100_Selected_Stories
I'm thinking this book (at a whopping 735 pages) might be a good project for next year.But I have just read The Gift of the Magi for the Retro Reads Group.
knowing the punchline didn't stop me falling in love with this short story & it's message of love & giving being more important than receiving.
This story is warm, witty & timeless.
5★The Coming Out of Maggie Yes I know it is a product of it's time but I couldn't enjoy this one - mainly because of the casual racism.
2.5★The Love-philtre of Ikey Shoenstein More of Henry's humour with a twist!
O Henry can certainly be considered a master of the form, and there’s even a short story prize named after him.
OK it's testament to the time I have on my hands, but also how quickly O Henry’s storytelling moves the reader along, gripping you with expert building of dramatic tension and a masterful dropping of relevant clues that keep you guessing, and make for glorious (or ironic, or vindicatory) twists at the end of the story.
The manuscript was found incomplete on O Henry’s desk after his death, and unlike his other stories, we can only guess what expertly crafted twist this one was going to take.
I love reading short stories and so I picked it up just when I laid my eyes on it. But lately, I have been a snail paced reader and this being a library issue, I had to return it unfinished. I only got to read a couple of the early stories and all of them were brilliant. I have loved O. Henry's short stories since I have read them in my school syllabi, and I loved it so much I'm planning on buying a copy and enjoying the stories at a slow and steady pace. I highly recommend this.
I've heard most of the stories before...so it wasn't that good.
It is very difficult to make it through a book of more than 700 pages with no continuity, only a series of fragments.
I have, and it has been quite rewarding, but persisting seems like it would be masochistic.O. Henry’s stories mostly take place in urban milieus, especially New York, around the time that the 19th century became the 20th.
Henry’s stories funny as such, although he had some excellent turns of phrase.
If you’re collecting stories that are on average seven pages in length, I really think that thirty or forty would more than suffice for a book.
His stories are the perfect comfort food for a rainy day.
Sometimes he can be a bit mawkish, but even that's forgivable, because his scope is so delightful.O. Henry doesn't write for depth so much as breadth, he has a knack for making the simplest actions funny and memorable--my favorite story has a couple who just got married playing with their Hansom Cab, pretending that she's a lady about town.
It's just the sort of thing some lovely couple would do.
Every scene is full of Norman Rockwell style Americana, and though he doesn't do any dark writing, he shows humanity just full of quirks and (mostly) benign trickery.Going on a plane trip?
O. Henry’s short stories are filled with morals and human compassion. Destiny, karma law, and free will often intermingle with a twist or an element of surprise. Like Chekov many of the messages of O. Henry appeal to the love of humanity and call for social justice and equality. My favorite story was a heartbreaking story called ‘Roads of Destiny’ (If you are a poet then you must read it). Great collection.
A classic, a must read for all short fiction fiends.
O Henry why must you be so sesquipedalian?
I've read enough of these to know that they are darn good. Well written and frequently with a surprise ending.
O. Henry is hands down one of the best storytellers ever and I wanted to read him since the first time I read one of his masterpieces "The Last Leaf".
This collection contains some of the best of O.
Henry stories some good, some very and some simply great.
On of the best books I read in 2013.
Yes, it is old, it is classic, but the stories can entertain one at any time, at any place.
In comparison, the book is like a gigantic panoramic masterpiece with lives interwoven, creating the light and dark sides of American society in 1800s.
I literally lived through all of my emotions while reading this book.
Best of all, if you are a busy person who struggle to keep up with a long-running storyline, you can enjoy this book bit by bit and it is still amazing.
'But Fergus was no talker. He was brought up with the idea that to be beautiful was to make good. His conversation was about as edifying as listening to a leak dropping in a tin dish-pan at the head of the bed when you want to go to sleep; and I'm sure that whenever I heard the feeble output of throat noises that he called conversation I felt contented to be a gargoyle with a silver tongue.' ~O. Henry, Next to Reading Matter
It took me a very long time to slog through this book. But it was definitely worth it. I compare it to the experience of shopping in a second hand store. Everything is pretty ancient. It takes a long time to sift through all of the dust. Some of it is just quaint and irrelevant but mixed in with it all are some priceless gems definitely worth taking home. I'm glad that I wasn't required to read this in school. It makes it a new discovery for me.
randomly,i selected some of the short stories to read from this book...They are amaaaaaaaaaaaazing.......most of o henry's stories are marked by a surprising ending, and you can feel the good sense of humour the author has.....simply, this book is amust-have for all who became absorbed in literature.......
A classic collection of O.Henry's short stories with a twist. Keeps me occupied while I am on the Munich underground and suburban trains. I love O. Henry's style of writing and the fact that he also spent time in Austin, Texas (my home for 12 years) and also the fact that he coined the term "banana republic"!!
Just flicked through a few stories and started feeling the taste of the revered author. Although a slow read, it just leaves you scratching your head at the end of every story. He doesn't confine himself to one niche, He can write about just any aspect of life and the ends of stories are marked by suspense. He takes sarcasm to a new level and the faint tanginess of comedy keeps you delighted.
100 Selected Stories of O. Henry is full of variety of social life happened in our daily life. O. Henry is well known as an author whose works are detail for its twist and plot. I found his works are simple yet meaningful and somehow funny; incredibly-exceptional experiences!
Some of the stories are really really illuminating and intriguing. The stories kind of cast a spell that makes you think awhile after you've finished reading them. You will either end up agreeing or disagreeing with the end but you will certainly spend sometime thinking.
Pretty good collection of short stories with a witty ending to nearly every story, although a lot of them rely heavily on things chiefly associated with American history and culture, it can be a little hard to understand those parts for the unfamiliar reader.
A must have book.O Henry is my favorite short story writer, and this book brings the very best collection of his short stories together in one place.Loved every letter in this book.
One of my favorites is The Marionettes.
wonderful fantastic stories.
some of them were really amazing and beautiful. ı must admit it this author is really great! ı think ı need read some story of this book again and again
Very different and moving stories.
Love it.There is always a lesson to be taken from all the stories.I highly recommend.:)
twists, twists and twists!
The Gift of the Magi ★★★★☆A Cosmopolite in a Café ★★★☆☆Between Rounds ★★★☆☆
3,5 :)
Classic & excellent
