https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9761778-deity
04/11/2012Just read the book... OMG!! I was going crazy reading it and the end... The end!! OMG!Sometimes I was like thisOther times I would have like to punch "someone" (view spoiler)[I don't belive I'm going to say it. But the someone is Seth. And I loved Seth. So this must say something. (hide spoiler)]After the last page I was likeAnd now, please --/03/2012I'm going crazy trying to figure out what will happen! ç_ç*Team Seth*Jennifer L. Armentrout Italian Fanpage - Obsidian, Wait for You.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
50 gazillion million trillion stars! This book was AMAZING. I have never read a book that has kept me excited as this Yes, this cat sums up ALL of my emotions while reading this book!This will be a quick an short review since this is an ARC. I will try not to give too much spoilers I PROMISE! I don't want any death threats in my email lol.The story start where we left off in book 2 Alex is taken back to the covenant as you all know and well, after everything that has happened Alex, is basically
All my #TeamSeth girls look out because Aiden is going to steal your heart!Seth Oh, Seth........Hmmmmmmmm......I suggest you guys should read the book when it comes out to see why I have no words for him.
I will have more to say about him Nov 6th so look out :)Leon I know you guys are wondering why I am mentioning Leon in my review because he is a 'nobody' but I think everyone will notice his role in book three and come to LOVE HIM!Minister Telly I HATE YOU AND WISH YOU WOULD DIE!!!Lucian I just DON'T LIKE YOU!!!Romance: LOTS OF IT!!!!
*After reading it*Ok, I swear if someone try to Team Seth me after reading this book I'M GOING TO KILL THEM.[image error]ALL MY FEELS!
That said, I NEED THE NEXT BOOK LIKE NOW.
I NEED to kill them all.And Seth?
I always despised you, but after this book....And THAT ending....***17/04/12 - Dear Deity, don't think I'm NOT still waiting for you.
AND I FEEL SO POWERLESS.***Let's just say I'm like, praying for this one to magically appear in front of me.Deity, my love, come to mama Isa. I'm sure we'll have so much fun together *grins*
WELL...There were things that sucked daimon butt,there were things that kicked daimon butt.Everything I was dreading would happen,happened but the romance aside,Deity was awesome.There's the same humor, action, && sexiness in Deitythat we're accustomed to in all Jenn's booksAlways entertaining && hard to put down.Even when things are happeningthat just rip you apart.(view spoiler)[Alex chose Aiden.
(so I made this gif) (I'm not sure if Alex will ever feel THAT way with him but I hope she does forget how good he can be) We all knew it would happen.
I hope he doesn't push Alex to do awful things.
waiting... waiting...prays with all my heart seth and alex will make it together all throughout.
are there teams..?? anyway  all the way..!!..go away aiden..and i do hope this time, that story goes in unconventional way..and the girl ends up with the guy who i actually like..because unfortunately..most stories seems to go in opposite way and i end up disappointed..really disappointed..i usually ship for poor guy..who ends up dead or some other fate...(i usually know i am shipping for wrong guy..thats the part of who i am ) but this time i am equally perplexed about who is good and who is ..

Plus, Alex is worried it will come out that she was responsible for the death of a Pure, and that Aiden covered it up.
Alex has also been spending a lot of time with Seth but she can’t shake the idea that theirs is a physical attraction only, and is she really willing to settle on that?
Alex is also starting to question the ways of her society, and no longer just taking things as she’s told.
I think you need a time-out on the naughty rug!!With that said, DEITY is my favorite of the Covenant series!
I would do  anything  for more Seth! Don't judge. ;)
WHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAATTTTTTTTholy gods time for book #4 OMG
I felt his breath on my cheek, and it felt like warm, salty air rolling off the ocean.“Alex?”“Hmm…?”“You okay?” He placed his lips to my cheek.I smiled.Seth chuckled, and then his mouth was making its way to mine, and I opened for him.
The cord tightened as his hand slipped down my arm, over my stomach and under the hem of my shirt.He smiled against my lips.
That they even came from within us.”“It freaked me out a little.But Seth’s free hand was everywhere, skimming down my arm, over my leg, and our cords were spiraling together, connecting us.
Deity is book three in the Covenant series by Jennifer Armentrout. I have loved every book so far in this series but something happened to me about half way through this third book. That feeling hit, that obsessed feeling when you can’t think of anything else but what is going on in the book. That feeling when you just want to close yourself off in a room and read non-stop. This was by far my favorite of the series so far. So much was revealed in this book. Our characters are all growing and ch
Along with this new character Alex’s lineage is also revealed.So much happened in this book and I am trying hard not to give anything away.
And we learn the true evil plans in place for using the power of Alex and Seth once they are connected.
We get to know Deacon (Aiden’s brother) better in this book and I want to say that I love him.
But in this book he finally reveals his true self to her.
Then there was the “Oh My Gosh, that did NOT just happen!” I think now we are beginning to wonder what is strongest, the power of true love, or the power of a supernatural connection.
OMG!!!!!! THAT ENDING!!!! THAT ENDING!!!! SPEECHLESS!!!!!!5 AMAZING STARS!!!!Wow!! This book was unbelievable!! So shocking!!!! That ending blew my mind!!!  I'm so glad this series has finally found its own path and can now step out of Vampire Academy's shadow. Deity is fast-paced and full of plot twists that will blow your mind. I can honestly say this is the best book in the series so far. I absolutely loved it!!! I love Alex!!! She is a strong determined woman who will do anything to keep the
He might act like a jealous asshole at times but I still love him.
I was so happy when he finally told Alex the truth about how he feels for her, but I will say it was really fun to watch him get jealous of how much time Seth was spending with Alex.
I was so shocked!!!!I actually liked Seth and thought he genuinely cared for Alex, but I was so wrong on all ends.
Part of me hopes Alex can save him in some kind of way but I feel like it’s going to end badly for him.Overall, I loved this book and the series!!!
Originally I was going to go all screaming-fan-girl on ya'll, but I decided that I wanted the readers to experience this book the way I did, so while there is some spoilers, I kept this as spoil-free as much as possible.Undeniably Epic!Jennifer L.
This series is an unstoppable force, bringing something fresh and powerful to the world of mythology as well as inspiring endless emotions from pure joy to pure rage to action punched- spine tingling-on the verge of being thrown from my seat- excitement.Someone once asked me between the Lux series and this one, which was my favorite book.Picking a favorite JLA book is like asking me which of my children I love more.
Deity set a new course for this series, an expected one perhaps, but a new and satisfying direction nonetheless.
As for the said cliffhanger, I’ve been told that Elixir, a novella from Aiden’s point of view, really takes the edge off and I’m looking forward to it.
Without revealing too much, I'll try to ease the minds of those who are like me: the (in)famous love triangle finally gets resolved in this book, or at least Alex sees things for what they really are.
Perhaps with Apollyon, Armentrout will break those last stubborn connections and make me look at this series differently.
Slow start, brilliant finish!
I loved every second of it and consider it the best in action and twist of events.
She finds out certain things about him, but as you know Alex, she believes Seth can be saved.
Alex is a different character now, letting aside her temper and personality that were untouched, but she is more focused, more mature and more willing to take chances for the things she loves.
She is very afraid of becoming an Apollyon and will do anything necessary to use her powers in a good manner.Aiden!!
I loved him in this book and I wanted to tell him "IT WAS ABOUT TIME" !!!
BULLSHIT I TELL YOU! UTTER FUCKING BULLSHIT! I screamed in frustration when it ended. I need to steady my breathing before I write my review.......“Aiden had slipped under my skin, wrapped himself around my heart and embedded himself into my bones.”  Seriously JLA???? Leave us hanging??? HOW COULD YOU!! This installment for me by far the best so far. So much did happen and it leaves you tearing your hair out. I am an Aiden lover all the way. Always been "team" Aiden.  But Seth also held a part o
BULLSHIT I TELL YOU!
UTTER FUCKING BULLSHIT!
I need to steady my breathing before I write my review.......“Aiden had slipped under my skin, wrapped himself around my heart and embedded himself into my bones.” 
Leave us hanging???
This installment for me by far the best so far.
So much did happen and it leaves you tearing your hair out.
I am an Aiden lover all the way.
Always been "team" Aiden.
But Seth also held a part of my heart.
But after this installment I am so shattered and heartbroken that I will NEVER EVER FORGIVE HIM!
3.5 starsFull review to come
My gods I love Aiden St Delphi....more than ever now!!!!~Full review to come~
IT WAS SO GOOD!Anyway, so here goes nothing....We leave off after Pure with Alex returning from New York and leaving some secrets behind that could destroy her and Aiden *sigh sigh sigh*.
So yeah, he's become a puppet to someone and yeah maybe it's not his fault entirely but I don't think there is any coming back for him...which is good for Aiden because dammit he needs his happy ending.
One thing I loved the most about this book (aside from Aiden of course) was the Greek mythology being thrown in there more.
I swear if Alex is going to end up with Seth in the very end (which I hope isn't very soon, I want this series to go on and on and on and, you get my point, right?), I'm going to scream and hate this series like I did with The Hunger Games (sorry, me is not Team Peeta, erm why am I even saying this in another books review?).
I hope I'll still love him after this book tho, me is scared I will not.
I'd love to promote the book here in Belgium ;) *giggles* Hey, I can only try, right?
Nefes almadan okumak istiyorum ama aynı zamanda bitmesin istiyorum.
Okurken o dünyanın içine giriyorum, olayları köşede bir yerden izliyor gibi hissediyorum.
Ne söylesem açık veririm, onun için olaylar hakkında bir şey yazmak istemiyorum.
sen nasıl bir yaratıksın ya.
Fantastik bir hikayenin bana bu kadar romantik geleceğini tahmin etmezdim.
İçinde romantizm dışında bir şey yok sanmayın.
Hele sonundaki o sahneler yok mu, işte onları nefes almadan kitap okuyabildiğinizi keşfederek okuyorsunuz.
Çok çok çok güzel bir seri.
Şimdiye kadar okuduğum 3 kitap, mitoloji ile çok güzel harmanlanmış bambaşka bir dünyanın kapılarını açtı benim için.
Nasıl oluyorsa, serideki her kitap daha öncekinden güzel olmayı başarıyor.
Okay, so I made a promise that if I were to continue with this series that I would nix the pissy commentary and use my review space only for the purpose of tracking the books as read.Before you ask...I decided to keep reading because I honestly do want to know what happens next (and the books are entertaining).
That's all I'm going to say about my decision.
My feelings are still very conflicted.If you are baffled by my non-review and really want to know what my deal is, you can find out by reading my reviews (and the following comments, some of which are debated) of books 1 and 2.
OMG--this third installment of the Covenant series does NOT disappoint! Reading these books is like riding a rollercoaster--white knuckles, racing pulse, and heart-in-the-throat intensity. WOW! I can't wait to get my hands on the manuscript to book 4! I LOVE editing this series!
I mean, I am called The Book Goddess, and right after I read Deity I wanted my blog design to have an actually goddess and a greek influence.
Anyway, you guys know how much I love romance in my books and Deity certainly delivered!
Whereas Half-Blood was Aiden's book, Pure was Seth's, in Deity both guys took center stage, with different reasons.
I was crying (happy tears!) in that scene and if you've read Deity you'll know why.
I'm sure most of you know I wasn't Alex's biggest fan in Half-Blood, but in Pure she proved me wrong.
Aiden si è finalmente svegliato e finalmente entrambi sono riusciti ad esprimere i loro ormai chiari sentimenti l'uno per l'altro.Non so come la Armentrout ha pianificato di continuare la storia, nel quarto volume ci sarà sicuramente un casino bestiale, visto com'è finito questo, ma ovviamente tutto si risolverà perchè è palese che sarà così, quindi la sorpresa per me non ci sarà fin da adesso.Apprezzo comunque molto questa serie e apprezzo sempre Jennifer per la sua inventiva e il suo modo di scrivere che amerò sempre.
OH.MY.GODS !!! Who ends a book like that??? I have no words... really!! Well maybe I do...How in HOLY HADES am I suppose to wait for the next installment!?! My ass hurts from that cliffhanger fall. Feels like it was kicked by a daimon. GAH! Oh and SETH!!!! WTH! Team Aiden is wracking up the points. Come on!I can't wait to review this book in October because I have a LOT to say. But for now... Best yet by JLA. Loved it!!! Count = 15 in case you were wondering **A full review of this book will be
OH.MY.GODS
Who ends a book like that???
I have no words...
Well maybe I do...How in HOLY HADES am I suppose to wait for the next installment!?!
My ass hurts from that cliffhanger fall.
Feels like it was kicked by a daimon.
GAH!
Oh and SETH!!!!
WTH!
Team Aiden is wracking up the points.
Come on!I can't wait to review this book in October because I have a LOT to say.
Best yet by JLA.
Loved it!!!
Count = 15 in case you were wondering
**A full review of this book will be found at WinterHaven Books closer to the release date.**
WWWWWHHHHHHHYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY. This is the feeling I had when I finished reading Pure!
Wow this was so so good I've just spent my whole sunday morning finishing this and it was perfect rainy weather so I had an excuse ☺
Deity had everything I could have wanted from a book and more, it's an extremely fantastic read.With Alex's awakening fast approaching, she's determined to try put it off for as long as possible, but every time she gets close to Seth, a mysterious new mark appears on her body and she can't help that think that Seth's behind it.
I'm so excited for you guys to read this book so you can see what I mean but Alex if anything, becomes so much more lovable.
Deity will be a favourite of mine for a long long time and I can not wait to see what comes next.
I seriously can't.I don't even know how to write this review without adding any god damn amazing spoilers because it's so freaking hard.
I loved everything about this book and how evil Jennifer L.
Alex is simply amazing and I'm really intrigued by the ending.
I need to know what she's going to be like in the next book now that she has awakened as an Apollyon.
I obviously ship Alex and Aiden together but after reading this book I'm so confused.
Plus I just really want to know what's happening to Alex now.
Like I said earlier, I can't accept that cliffhanger ending.
