https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398179.The_Pocket_Book_of_Ogden_Nash
Ogden Nash was a humorist poet who regularly took wild liberties with rhyme and meter, often coming up with delightful and absurd results.
And I have no desire to get ugly,But I cannot help mentioning that the door of a bigoted mind opens outward so that the only result of the pressure of facts upon it is to close it more snugly.Naturally I am not pointing a finger at me,But I must admit that I find any speaker far more convincing when I agree with him than when I disagree.andThe only incurable troubles of the rich are the troubles that money can't cure,Which is a kind of trouble that is even more troublesome if you are poor.Certainly there are lots of things in life that money won't buy, but it's very funny--Have you ever tried to buy them without money?Not everything he wrote is great, and unfortunately some of his poetry reflects the stereotypes and prejudices of his day (he wrote much of his poetry in the 1930s and 40s).
A sample of Ogden Nash (maybe not all from this book!)A Word to Husbands To keep your marriage brimming, With love in the loving cup, Whenever you're wrong, admit it; Whenever you're right, shut up.
Of similarities there's lots Twixt tiny tots and Hottentots.
The TurtleThe turtle lives twixt plated decksWhich practically conceal its sex.
I picked this up because I remember reading short humorous poems by Nash in grade school. I was expecting flippant light verse with silly end rhymes. And there was plenty of that. But there was also social commentary of surprising depth and relevancy. He talks about issues that are still important today, such as the commercialization of Christmas, gender relations, the generation gap, and even the fashionable deformation of the English language. But just when you think Nash is some sort of cynical stand-up comic who merely pokes fun at society, he writes something tinged with warmth and nostalgia.
I’m not sure where I picked up this book of Ogden Nash poetry, but I’ve been reading from it over the past 30 days and enjoying it immensely.
Nash is amusing in small doses but tedious in anything larger.
I read twenty pages of this, flipped ahead to make sure it was more of the same, and decided it wouldn't be worth my time to finish. Too light, flippant, and punny for my tastes. Also, many of the poems about men and women struck me as sexist. The copy I have was published in the early sixties, so no surprise, but still. Not for me.
Surprisingly racist, at times, and not-so-surprisingly misogynistic at others.
example of his poetry: "When called by a panther, don't anther."
I am down in Charlottesville, VA right now, visiting my friend Andrew for the holiday weekend. Even though we were up until about 4am, I woke up at 8am and found this book beside the bed and started reading it and laughing and have only stopped to write this review, to remind myself to track down a copy for my own when I go home. Ogden Nash is the best and the funniest.
Like a grown-up Shel Silverstein. Interesting and hilarious :)
A collection of Nash's poetry...both the serious and the silly...His poems are so simple and yet they are also multi-layered, satirical and witty. Good stuff.
Great poetry
A little too weird for me.
