https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40024.The_Alienist
I don’t know about your shelves but my shelves of unread books have become clogged with novels I thought I wanted to read five or six years ago and now I can’t remember why I thought I wanted to read them and since I’ve now read all the ones I could remember why I wanted to read them I’m left with this scurvy crew, and there they are, glaring at me and muttering hey, you, get with the program, read me.
When I read a big 500 page novel I don’t want to know what I’m going to get.
Too many of the cops in the New York system are just criminals with badges and more interested in graft and corruption than finding a killer, especially one who is murdering nancy boy prostitutes.Hurry or a child will die!What the heck is an Alienist, you might ask?
His dark hair, cut far too long to meet the fashion of the day, and swept back on his head, was moist, for he always went hatless; and this, along with the bobbing of his face at the pages before him, only increased the impression of some hungry, restless hawk determined to wring satisfaction from the worrisome world around him.”These are early days for profiling serial killers, but Kreizler and his team are using the evidence they are collecting to build a file that slowly adds shape and substance to the shadowy figure killing these young boys.
Through most of this book, I had it rated at 5.0 stars as I was absolutely captivated by the writing, the characters and the plot and loved how they were all deftly tethered to a great depiction of late 19th Century everyday life.
In addition, to the excellent job the author did in establishing a sense of place, I also really liked the way Carr incorporated into the narrative several "real life" murderers that were contemporaries of the killer in this novel.
The novel is historical fiction written by a non-fiction author.
Although I could feel that background from the attention to the detail he employed in the description of the historical setting, it was never dull and he did a great job to introduce me in the atmosphere of 1896, New York and its underworld.
This is a very well written psychological thriller which focuses more on the whydunit than on whodonit.
My only regret was that I did not have enough time to read and I had to enjoy this beautiful book in small bites which altered the flow of my experience.
Roosevelt calls in Dr. Laszlo Kreizler whose command lies in the area of psychology and human criminal behavior.
You'll meet a cast of goodies and severe baddies who will either honestly assist or dastardly sabotage the hunt for the killer on all sides of the law.Be forewarned: This is a very graphic interlude into unspeakable crimes on the streets of New York.
I was nearly cross-eyed from reading into the wee hours in order to be ready for the series.And on the flip side.......Here's hoping that these remarkable characters (especially my beloved Teddy Roosevelt) are handed off to worthy actors who will transform this book into a top-drawer experience for those who wait anxiously.
Caleb Carr's novel of a serial killer on the loose in turn of the century New York, and the dangerous pursuit of him by Dr. Lazlo Kreizler and his friends is a truly wonderful read.
As they close in on the killer through Kreizler's use of psychological profiling, danger hits closer to home than any of our friends had expected.There are moments so full of flavor in this fine historical mystery that you'll feel like you are sitting alongside the characters at Delmonico's as they enjoy a good meal, and plan their next move.
Prior to the twentieth century, persons suffering from mental illness were thought to be “alienated”, not only from the rest of society but from their own true natures. Those experts who studied mental pathologies were therefore know as alienists. At two a.m. on March 3rd, 1896 someone comes pounding on the door of John Moore’s grandmother’s house in New York City. Not drunk, nor particularly sober, when called from his bed, John is immediately whisked away by carriage, to the site of the still
And that pen of which I speak, spills magic as Carr deftly transports you to an atmospheric late 19th century New York City, complete with the sights ( street vendors hawking their wares; police corruption and brutality; unwashed, malnourished children running wild), sounds (hooves on cobblestones) and smells (quite disgusting reminders of time before modern day sewage systems) one would expect.It is a first person narrative told through the perspective of John Moore, reporter on the police beat, as a recollection of events past.
I guess I just need more than a mammoth miniseries version of a steampunk-era CSI episode.
I've never enjoyed that show - what little I've watched of it - because the minutia of forensic science and criminal psychology utterly bore me when they are not tied to interesting themes, characters with depth, or a rich atmosphere.
the whole experience of reading this book was excruciating.
however if you are a fan of CSI, then this is probably a 4 or 5 star book for you.
enjoy!
I tend not to like historical fiction, but this one blew me away. I challenge any thriller-and-suspense lover to try this book and not get hooked by the end of the first chapter. Fabulous.
Five Questions to Help Decide if You Should Read Caleb Carr's The Alienist1) Do you love a good thriller?Because what you might find between the covers of this book is a story that is anything but your typical thriller.
Like Mindhunter, The Alienist sees the team trading academic insights into the mutilation and murders of the killers whom they hunt and struggling against those who disagree with their atypical methods.
Suffice to say, if you like the pace and tone of Mindhunter and can imagine it transplanted into the late 1800's, you'll like this too.4) Do you like a good cast?Because Carr populates his novel with many endearing characters outside of the good doctor, Laszlo Kreizler.
The television series is on "my list" for Netflix and like any reader, I must read the book first. Well, I am now a  Dr. Laslo Kreizler fan or should I be more accurate and state that I am a big fan of the pairing between Lazlo and the narrator of the story, crime reporter, John Schyuler Moore. This 19th century mystery about a serial killer hunting down young boys is not for the faint hearted. But oh my goodness, it's incredibly hard to put aside!
Anyway, I was ready to fire a gun into these ridiculous chairs myself.EDIT: in trying to give the book its due, I read that the author has gone back to writing non-fiction, military history books.
Im guessing New Yorkers will have gotten a kick out of this backdrop - this is like CSI NYC: Century 19.I gave The Alienist three stars then and now a two, re-reading it as a commitment for book club.
Lastly, the analysis of abnormal human psychology was about as deep as a write up in Cosmo magazine.Now, if you have never read any true-crime books or novels where profiling is described, then you may actually enjoy this story.
Thus a rather unconventional secret investigative team is assembled, led by Dr. Laszlo Kreizler - a psychiatrist (or alienist as they were known at the time).
Laszlo's other team members are John Schuyler Moore, a newspaper reporter; Sara Howard, a would-be detective who's currently Roosevelt's secretary; and Detective Sergeants Marcus Isaacson and Lucius Isaacson, two talented and incorruptible cops.
The team also assembles clues by examining crime scenes, collecting fingerprints, interviewing witnesses, consulting old records, visiting places the killer may have lived, etc.
Step by step, the team assembles a physical and psychological picture of the killer.During their inquiries, the investigators are constantly followed, threatened, harassed, hampered, and even attacked.
I just watched the trailer for the series of this being put out by TNT.
I thought I would post a bit of a review to try and bring some attention to the book while everyone still has time to read it.
This book is fantastic!
I burned through it each time I read it (I think I'm up to three.) The murders are gruesome, the characters are delightful, and, most special of all, the sense of time and place are so well-drawn that you will see, smell, and taste Old New York from the ground up.
Do yourself a favor and read this one...
then watch the lovely Daniel Brühl solve some crimes in an Austrian accent.
Done!!! I LOOVED this Sherlock Holmesian historical fiction thriller set in 1890's New York city. I wanted to get it read before the TNT series starts January 22 - it looks so good! I hope they don't ruin it by making too many changes to the story or the characters. Keeping my fingers crossed - the cast is great!If, like me, you haven't read this 1994 classic yet, I highly recommend it! Great plot, characters and a wonderful glimpse of Gilded Age New York.
I’m awful.The story takes place in the early part of 1896 in New York City.
We also see the inner workings of the NYPD at the time and how it was trying to be reformed from a violent group of men who took pay from all the criminals into a working and solid force of crime solving and prevention.Onto the plot:The story is told in the first-person narrative by a New York Times journalist, John Moore.
Dr. Kreizler is one of the new and reviled psychiatrists, other wise known as Alienists (since people with mental disorders were thought to be alienated from society) and is the reason behind the title of the book.The thick of the novel is a murder investigation.
This was a very interesting, very thick book.
Lots of good characters including Theodore Roosevelt.
It was a long read but I did enjoy it and wanted to read it before the TV series starts in the new year.
I think this is a series so I will certainly want to read more.
I do become very attached to the main characters.
Won't give anything away about the storyline but by second half of book I was wanting to keep reading to find out what was going to happen.
Lots of suspense.
I cared more about some of the sideline characters than any of the primary ones.Two, it seemed that at any opening, the author took the time to go off on historical tangents that didn't appear to serve much purpose for the plot but felt like they were primarily done to provide a 'feel' for the environment.
That could have been due to the fact that by the time the ending of the book came around I was eager for it to be over and done with, so there wasn't much I was inclined to appreciate by that point.The reason I can't give the book three stars is because on Goodreads, three stars is for 'liked it'.
Definitely New York from the epoch came out the more impressive and atmospheric - albeit it's not that dashy and glamorous city Edith Wharton or Henry James presented in their works, rather its dirty underbelly.
New York in the novel is primarily a city of thieves and prostitutes, immigrants and the poor; districts of crowded and dirty slums, seedy brothels and dangerous alleyways, the places you could fire a shotgun in any direction without hitting an honest man.
A sense of time and place is very key to the success of this text.Just as successful is the relationships among the novel’s protagonists, a team brought together off the books to track down a serial killer whose crimes are inconvenient for the powers that be in NYC.
“The Alienist” feels like it could be a true crime story, except it is completely made up!As for the plot, it is one that will have the reader intrigued and disgusted (unflinchingly so) at times, and one that keeps propelling you thru the text.
Recommended for fans of historical fiction or detective stories.Favorite Quotes"Scientists' minds may jump around like amorous toads, but they do seem to accept such behavior in one another.""Change isn't something that most people enjoy, even if it's progressive change.""[I]n our private moments we Americans are running just as fast and fearfully as we were then, running away from the darkness we know to lie behind so many apparently tranquil household doors, away from the nightmares that continue to be injected into children's skulls by people whom Nature tells them they should love and trust, running ever faster and in ever greater numbers toward those potions, powders, priests, and philosophies that promise to obliterate such fears and nightmares, and ask in return only slavish devotion.""We are not obligated to provide everyone who comes to this country with a good life," Morgan went on.
I enjoyed this story very much! From the characters to the plot to the setting it was all very much to my liking!
for the NYC nerd: yes. for everyone else: no.i liked reading about old new york more than i liked reading about any of the people in it.historian win;author fail.
This historical fiction takes place in New York City just before the turn of the century and revolves around the activities of one of the first forensic investigations in world history.
His vivid descriptions of turn of the century New York make you feel that you are right there with the characters.
And the cast of characters, including Roosevelt himself, seem to jump right out of history itself for the show.My one disappointment of the novel was it's climax.
If you like an intellectual adventure ride in your historical fiction, you should certainly give The Alienist a shot.
Experts in the study of mental pathologies were known as Alienist.
Earlier this year I watched the first episode of the show and found it visually stunning.
I learned from this book and some online research that for much of the 19th & early 20th centuries child prostitution was perfectly legal and the most popular form of child prostitution featured little boys as young as 5 dressing up as girls.
The Alienist is dark, edgy, smart, and gripping.
2018 Popsugar Reading Challenge: a book you meant to read in 2017Around The Year In 52 Reads: A medical or legal thriller
1896, Nueva York.
El alienista Laszlo Kreizler, el periodista y narrador de esta historia John Schuyler Moore y Sarah Howard, secretaria de Theodore Roosevelt en el departamento de policía, harán frente a la búsqueda contrareloj de un misterioso asesino en serie que ha mutilado brutalmente a varios niños que ejercen la prostitución en las calles de Manhattan.Personalmente, y como fan en mi adolescencia de la generación beat (fundamentalmente de Jack Kerouac), me ha llamado poderosamente la atención que Caleb Carr sea el hijo de Lucien Carr, una de las figuras centrales del movimiento junto a Kerouac y William S.
It was fascinating to be reading about suspect profiling and 'building a case' in a time when cars were still a horse and cart, fingerprint reading was deemed to be a dubious way to collect evidence and women were perfect for secretarial roles but not detective work.
Go Sara!I detracted a star because there was just way too much superfluous detail in this book.
Some of it was interesting to me, like what they were eating at each time they were dining, which was a lot, but often I was wishing I was reading a print book so I could skim the details of the decor of a room or whatever that added no value or enjoyment for me.
In this endeavour, he recruits an odd assortment of people, including John Moore, a friend journalist, Sarah Howard, one of the first female police secretaries, and the Isaacson brothers, detectives (one who studied law, the other medicine).
Carr weaves true facts in his mystery, using real historical figures and events, in a very convincing manner.
Having said this, it is still a compelling read, especially if you are interested in history, psychology/criminology and sociology.P.S. This website has a wealth of information on The Alienist and its sequel - http://17thstreet.net/alienist-books/
These days, I don't read the number of crime novels I once did, but every so often, I feel the inclination to indulge—you know feed the brain a little, solve a puzzle.
John Schuyler Moore, a crime reporter for The New York Times and Dr. Laszlo Kreizler, an "alienist" (better known in modern times as a psychologist) are on the hunt for a Jack the Ripper style serial killer targeting young male prostitutes.
I must also mention Kreizler's drivers, young Stevie, and Cyrus.
I haven't read a mystery novel of this caliber in quite a while.

