https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9580298-a-street-in-bronzeville
Prior to being commended for her achievements, Brooks became the first African American woman to win the Pulitzer for her poetry collection Annie Allen in 1950.
A student of Langston Hughes as early as 1941, Brooks penned and published her first collection of poetry about Chicago's south side entitled A Street Called Bronzeville in 1945.
Her collection is in part Brooks' own take on the place of African Americans in society at the time of publication.
The centerpiece of this collection is entitled The Ballad of Pearl Mae Lee. Pearl is a respectable African American woman who attempts to hold her family together.
There are lots of poems here, but the book gets 5 stars because of The Sundays of Satin Legs Smith, Queen of the Blues, and Ballad of Pearl May Lee. Mother Brooks did her good writing there...she’s all form and technique and I love it!
Having read Liesl Olson's "Chicago Renaissance" recently, Brooks, and this book, is one of her main shared stories.
While the Library of America does not have a Brooks volume available, they do have this collection available as an ebook - which is how I read it.
I have the first volume of her autobiography, "Report from Part One" on request from my local public library.Interesting, after Brooks' editor at Harper & Row passed away, a white woman with whom she had a very close working relationship, she became much more radicalized, and moved to smaller, Af Am run presses to publish her books.
Major Field Prep: 41/133Gwendolyn Brooks's first published collection of poetry, A Street in Bronzeville, shows the genesis of her dedication to making poetry available to black people in any social and economic circumstance, and to illustrate a portrait of and for African Americans.
Many of the poems trace the specific gendered domestic experience of black women, of note "Sadie and Maud," "Kitchenette Building," the "Hattie Scott" series.
Meanwhile a Mississippi Mother Burns Bacon” (1960) on the lynching of Emmett Till.
Another alternative perspective, a highly gendered female perspective, on the residual violence of lynching and of the culpability of white women in the perpetuating of lynching.
I love this book. The poems, especially "the mother" and "a song in the front yard," inspire me. So accessible and timely, even after all these years (1945). I would recommend Brooks's work to anyone who loves good poetry.
Excellent. This book was very inspiring and encouraging. The poetry was vivid and amazingly articulated. It was an honor to read this book of poetry.
was so interested in this poet as a person however I found I could not get into these poems.
"We are things of dry hours and the involuntary planGrayed in, and gray.
'Dream' makes a giddy sound, notstrongLike 'rent,' 'feeding a wife,' 'satisfying a man.'" (2).
- from "kitchenette building"Brooks' poetry is a gift.
My favorite poems are the ones set in bustling apartment buildings and describing relationships between mothers and their unborn children, brothers, and lovers.
Life after death and the pageantry of funeral rites and mourning is a frequent theme in this collection, though it ends with political commentary through love notes to a soldier and a poem about military service to a country that inspires a "deepening hollow."
Urban African American w/ focus on urban Chicago - First Year Seminar, Middlebury College. Shout-out to Prof. Nash for assigning this collection of poems for us to read, back in freshman year! Gwendolyn Brooks is an amazing poet. Love her :)
Beautiful, lyrical sometimes heart-wrenching poems providing insight into 1940's black american experience.
