https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1129916.Lucky_Starr_and_the_Big_Sun_of_Mercury
اوصافی که در کتاب از سطح سیاره ی عطارد به خوانشگر ارائه میشود با باورهای نجومی آن دوران مطابقت داشت.
از حدود سال 1956 میلادی به این سو، دانش نجومی در باره ی نظام درونی منظومه ی شمسی، به دلیل استفاده از شعاعهای راداری و موشک، به طرز چشمگیری پیشرفت کرده.
عطارد در مدت 88 روز به دور خورشید میچرخد.
اما گردش آن به دور خویش 59 روز طول میکشد، پس برخلاف آنچه در داستان آمده، همه ی قسمتهای سیاره ی عطارد، در زمانهای مختلف رو به سمت و سوی خورشید قرار میگیرند.
Четвъртата новела за Лъки Стар ни отвежда на Меркурий, планетата, за която като че ли е писано най-малко във фантастиката.
Отново имаме заплетен криминален случай, този път саботиране на важен научен проект с обичайните заподозрени - колонията на Сириус.
Лъки обаче не е толкова сигурен.Книгата следва добре установения модел на предишните с минимални разлики.
Има, естествено, игра със законите на роботиката, има извънземни форми на живот, включва и едно от най-красиво описаните единоборства в условията на ниска гравитация.
Информацията за Меркурий, предполагам повече от актуална за 56-та, когато е писано произведението, сега стои малко наивно.Като цяло си е много добре, но името Азимов много вдига летвата.
A lot of reviews for these Lucky Starr books are not favorable.
I presume these are from hard-core Sci Fi fans who only like the "heavy science" science fiction (which has a tendency to bore me to death.) Maybe that is why I like the Lucky Starr books.
Still, I enjoy these mystery science fiction books because there is plenty of action and they are an easy read.
If your child is looking to get into science fiction, this is the series for them.
You do not have to have read the other three books in this series to understand this one, but it does help.
This was a pleasant story that would have lent itself well to being included with the "I, Robot" stories.
No sooner do they land their ship inside the Dome city than lead engineer Scott Mindes escorts them outside onto the surface of the planet where he speaks of giant men in metal suits who can remain on the surface for hours despite the intense heat and deadly radiation from the sun.
While Starr takes the comments in stride, the short-fused Bigman characteristically lashes out at Urteil in a violent rebuttal that begins a savage feud between them.By way of distraction, Peverale launches into a polemic against the people of the planet Sirius, accusing them of sending saboteurs to Mercury in an attempt to thwart Project Light.
Je zou daar een filosofisch discours kunnen aan wijden, maar ook dat is niet de stijl van Asimov.
En ik ben ervan overtuigd dat dat ook zal gelden voor andere liefhebbers van science fiction (en/of, wie weet, filosofie).
Malgrado le inesattezze, è proprio la parte scientifica combinata alla dimensione avventurosa a rialzare le quotazioni del libro, sia che si tratti delle installazioni e dei progetti portati avanti su Mercurio, sia nella ricostruzione della sua geografia e dei suoi panorami: da ricordare almeno quella sorta di piano sequenza che racconta l’alternanza dei colori sul paesaggio che si dispiega davanti agli occhi di Lucky man mano che si inoltra sulla faccia illuminata, nonché il suo procedere sulla stessa fino all’incontro con il robot che si trasforma in un duello che sta tra la partita di scacchi e il balletto a bassa gravità.
The cover art is the biggest spoiler of the book.
Until the middle of the book everyone is talking who could have done it, not what could have done it but the cover belies this the whole time.
Other than this you find a nice balance of Lucky and Bigman each taking their roles and expanding upon them.
The story had 2 interwoven plots for once, which I would say is good.
There was no surpurfulous use of the glimmer shield, no real mention of it at all either.
I would have to say if it was not for the cover art the book would have been better.
The fourth of Asimov's series of six juvenile tales of 'daring-do'. 'Juvenile' in the sense of being YA (young adult) in their intended audience. Lucky Starr and his erstwhile sidekick Bigman Jones (one is reminded of the movie serials in which the hero always had a more-for-comic-relief-than-anything-else tag-along partner) investigate mysterious accidents which are plaguing Project Light, an endeavor to transmit solar energy through hyperspace. Not remembered at all.
It's been fun, re-reading all these old books after such a long time. With this novel, I thought how funny it must have been, being a youngster reading the first edition, and finding that Paul French shamelessly used Asimov's robots...
Este es mi libro favorito de Lucky Starr. Todo me pareció hermoso e intrigante (la vida que parecía piedra y se alimentaba del calor, el robot, las menciones a Sirio, el invento, la relación de Lucky con Bigman...).
En la cuarta entrega donde apesar de que los Sirios no son el villano predominante me parece interesante la analogía que se hace con respecto al nazismo (o eso creo): —De la crueldad todo puede esperarse —dijo el doctor Peverale—, igual que de lapolítica. Nos desprecian. Nos consideran como animales. Los sirianos son tremendamente racistas. Desde que los terrícolas colonizaron Sirio, han estadoapareándose cuidadosamente hasta estar libres de enfermedades y diversas características que consideran
Desde que los terrícolas colonizaron Sirio, han estadoapareándose cuidadosamente hasta estar libres de enfermedades y diversas características que consideran indeseables.»Tienen un aspecto uniforme, mientras que los terrícolas son de todas las formas,tamaños, colores, y variedades.
Los sirianos nos consideran inferiores.
Esta es la razón de que no nos permitan emigrar a Sirio.
Otro detalle que me llamó la atención es que aparecen también los robots y las leyes de la robótica, me gustaría pensar que el universo de Lucky Starr es el mismo que el de la Fundación.
Each novella begins with a series of mysterious occurrences followed by an investigation from the Council of Science, a series of clues and action sequences that inevitably lead to life and death peril for the two detectives and then a finale in which the truth is discovered and that is, in format, very similar to the "drawing room" mystery endings so popular in the 20's and 30's.What's distinctive about this tale is that the two leading characters get split up and must pursue parallel investigations.
So this book has fewer complications or switchbacks than the previous two and all of the action takes place in a pretty concentrated period of time (perhaps 48 hours).
Recently I felt like reading something quick and light-hearted again, so I instantly went to my Lucky Starr collection and tugged out Big Sun of Mercury.
The Big Sun of Mercury is *really* interesting to me, because it just starts to hint at what would eventually become the Robot and Empire Series (by FAR one of the biggest influences on me as a writer).
The relationship between Lucky Starr and Bigman felt so familiar upon this re-read, their barter, their friendship, the protectiveness they shared - and then it just suddenly hit me out of the blue.They where Space Sherlock and Watson.
Imagine: a thousand years from now, the solar system's secret agents and protectors of the weak are...scientists!
—Who don't mind showing off what they know!An unknown agent is sabotaging an important, secret research project to harness the Sun's energy in a way that would sustain humankind's energy needs, with enough left over to turn the Earth into an air-conditioned paradise.
Central to the plot is Mercury's terminator—the zone of eternal dawn—which at the time of writing was thought to be stationary, since Mercury was believed to show one face eternally toward the Sun. However, as Dr. Asimov admits with some regret, Mercury is now known to turn on its axis once every two-thirds of its year.
Stretching a bit (but not too much to break it!) the Science to fit the Fiction of a solar system peopled by human colons and extraterrestrial intelligent life forms, Asimov cooks up a fun, fresh and adventurous space opera saga, peppering it with quite a few Western genre tropes and leaving the tone evolve to a Cold War investigations series (moving with the author’s times, so to say).
series: an added value for any Asimov enthusiast!This adventure sees the protagonist counter Sirians’ plans in scientific espionage and introduces also in the Lucky Starr series the famous Three Laws of Robotics.
Y no me sorprendería que algún día las aventuras de Lucky Starr pasaran a la pequeña pantalla, ya que el argumento reúne todos los requisitos para garantizar el éxito en tan solo 20 / 25min de retransmisión.Muchas de las convicciones y leyes científicas que se daban como aceptadas cuando el autor escribió los libros han cambiado o se han desmentido.
Esto hace que sus relatos, actualmente, pierdan valor o, mejor dicho, carezcan de rigor científico.
Pero esto no quita, ni mucho menos, el deseo de saber cómo continuarán las aventuras del joven y astuto agente espacial y los peligros que deberá afrontar por todo el Sistema Solar.
And so I pass from forensic biographies to Asimov's science fiction.
However now it is known (ok it was known in the life time of Isaac Asimov hence why he felt he had to add his comments) that Mercury does rotate even if incredibly slowly - so Asimov being the honest writer he was apologised to the read.
Now I wonder how many other writers would go back and revise a book once an assumption has been proven to be false.
Even at the time I read them in my early 20s, I was not greatly inspired by these, but then again, Issac Asimov wrote them in the 1950s as juvenile science fiction novels under the pseudonym Paul French.
As Asimov admits in the 1970s authors note, the knowledge about the planets and moons has changed greatly, and obviously much much now in 2016.
So, there is that problem about reading sci-fi when you already know the science knowledge is significantly out of date.
Still, that doesn't stop me watching schlock sci-fi movies.
#4 in the Lucky Starr series.
Not quite as compelling as I remember the series about the Space Ranger being when I first read it, 50 years ago.
Young folks may still enjoy it if their expectations haven't been predisposed by Star Wars and its ilk.Lucky Starr and his friend Bigman journey to Mercury to try and learn who is sabotaging an important series of experiments.
Lucky attempts to mislead the leader of the Mercury expedition, an overweight bully, and even his sidekick, Bigman.
Lucky and Bigman journey through the abandoned mines.
Yet, as always, Lucky and Bigman prevail over all.
Apparently, Mercury is a hellish planet. The weather forecast is always a no-good. The low gravity is a nuisance. And - GOD HELP US ALL - there's absolutely no woman in outer space, since they are just no good with science (woot!). Despite all that, Lucky Starr and The Big Sun of Mercury is a very decent space adventure filled with sci-fi exploration and action. This is a readable book but not a satisfying one.
Another read-aloud bedtime storybook for Jefferson. A random purchase at Curious Books -- I'd never heard of Asimov's Lucky Starr series before. Jefferson enjoyed it without being crazy about it, probably better for slightly older children, but still a nice, kid-friendly bit of classic sci-fi. No women to speak of, of course, but some good science -- thinking out implications of living on the surface of Mercury vs. Earth vs. Mars. And some good robotics stuff, of course.
Fins ara la pitjor historia de tota la sèrie, tot i que és entretinguda els temes més interessants com els Robots de Sirio o els natius de Mercuri no estan massa desenvolupats. Apareixen les lleis de la robòtica i com una ment robòtica pertorbada pot arribar a saltar-se-les, però la trama en si és fluixa i no hi ha la part de misteri o acció trepidant de les anteriors entregues de la saga.
dont remember the book too well..but i do remember did a book review for this book. enjoyed the book...that much i recall. plus it is asimov's....read a lot of his physics books....so must have been good...
Un poco diferente a los anteriores, Bigman tiene más protagonismo y eso ayuda a la historia.
A delightful romp from the master!
Very mid-50s young-adult SF adventure. Entertaining fluff (and hey, it's Asimov). Indicative of the time, though, there isn't a single woman in the book.
Another great children't mystery that entertained adult me. :)
crap
The Lucky Starr books are so delightfully retro-future. It's the future the way an old-timey serial would picture it.
