https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5508.Anne_Frank_Beyond_the_Diary
The story of Anne Frank should absolutely be shared with children and Anne Frank: Beyond the Diary - A Photographic Remembrance is an ideal nonfiction book to use in tandem with the reading of Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl because it provides a more holistic account of her life.
The book neatly organizes pertinent information about Anne’s life and showcases many primary sources that can add to or clarify points in the well-known Anne Frank story.
Furthermore, this is a visually stimulating book and can be useful in differentiating a lesson regarding Anne Frank and the life of Jews in the face of mass prejudice and genocide.
This is such a rich companion to The Diary of a Young Girl. Anne's father Otto was took many wonderful family pictures that were found in the Secret Annex along with Anne's diaries. Thankfully Miep and Beb kept all that they found in hopes the Frank family would return. Otto was the sole survivor which I did not remember. I am so glad I took the time to read this book.
I am so glad I found this book in the library.
I am a huge "fan" of Anne Frank's diary and it is the reason why I decided to journal regularly.
I first read it when I was 14 years old.
This book is the perfect companion for the diary.
When reading it, you get to see photographs of Anne and her family before the war, as well as pictures of her diary.
It just makes it so real, she's no longer the Anne Frank, now I feel her closer to me.
I recommend everyone who's read about Anne Frank to read this.
Heartbreaking...
I am fascinated with everything Anne Frank. I want to know everything about her, the lives they live during the hiding and everything the family went through. It was a sad story mostly about the way people before treated the Jews, how almost all of them were killed. As i was reading this and looking at the pictures I remembered the movie The boy in the striped pyjamas that movie, I literally cry and baul like a baby. Makes me think why the Jews?
I recently read Anne Frank's diary for the first time, and I was interested to know more. There are many, many books about Anne, her family, her housemates, and their experience. This one is among the most highly recommended, so I started with it. It's mostly photographs, along with maps and diagrams. It really fills in some of the details that were harder for me to imagine from only what Anne wrote—the actual layout of the Secret Annex, for example. This is an excellent companion to the diary.
Interesting to read all about Anne Frank, her family, the other ANNEX members from a perspective of what happened after the diary was written.
Lots of photos and maps and drawings to make it all easier to comprehend.What I can't comprehend is being the person who betrayed them, (and many others in Europe that betrayed other jews) and has/had the death of 7 people on their conscience.
I so admire all of those who went underground and saved as many jews as possible and great peril to themselves if caught.
Such as the Ten Boom family, in the story of The Secret Place.
Anne Frank was a Jewish girl who lived during World War II.
I like how the author didn't really missed any details about Anne Franks life.
Anne, her family, and her friends hid in the Annex for two years.
After two years of hiding, somebody told on the Franks and the Nazis found them.
I was angry about when Hitler had to sent Jewish people to concentration camp just because they were not like him.
Anne died in Bergen -Belsen concentration camp.
I will recommend this book to people who like to read about World War II.
I stumbled across this in the school library while I was already re-reading Anne Frank's Diary.
It is an EXCELLENT companion to the diary, bringing Anne alive in a way that the diary itself cannot: showing photos of Anne's life before the war and of the Secret Annexe in which she lived for those two years.
The text is simple but very informative, both about Anne's life, the war, and the concentration camps.
Anne Frank had in some essential way ceased to be an ordinary person.
Seeing the baby Anne, the smiling Anne, the free Anne, makes her life all that much more ordinary.
Anne Frank: Beyond The the DiaryRuud Van Der Rolpgs.132When I read about Anne Frank and her story I think, Wow what a life.
Im always so thinkful that i didnt have to deal with all of the pain that was in that time period.
It makes me think that life really isnt fair and it never will be.
Reading about the history in Germany and the horrible things that happened to all of the Jews and the concentration camps that they were forced to go to.
This book is about Anne Frank's life not about her diary but it also has some parts of her diary.
This book include a lot of picture which support the explanation.
In this book you can see some pictures about Anne and her family.
In this book you can also see what happened to Jews who were discriminated by German.
Jews did not do anything bad but they were discriminated.
The only reason that they were discriminated is 'they are Jews'.
killed over millions Jews.
Jews were treated inhumanly and unfairly.
I could learn more about Anne and Jews from this book.
For the book Beyond The Diary of Anne Frank I would say that it was very informational in many ways.It told me a lot about after and before the war. So before the war Anne Franks family was very peaceful and had a great life.I liked this book because of the information now i know about what happen to Anne Franks family before and after WW2.I recommend this book to people who enjoy the feeling of relief and power.
Heard a lot about it which made me read it. The terrors of the world war was well explained. It is a good book for someone who loves reading about history and stuffs. But i am not a history-man. I like fantasy, thrillers, and classics.
I love this book. It really is a special adjunct to the diary. In my opinion it makes the diary so much more interesting. Fabulous photos and background information about Anne and her family.
Professional Recommendation/Review #1: Roger Sutton (The Bulletin of the Center for Children s Books, November 1993 (Vol. 47, No. 3)) As Anna Quindlen points out in her introduction to this album of photographs, the single most arresting picture is the one that comes right at the front: "looking at the pictures of the actual diary, with its plaid cover and impotent little lock, a shiver took hold of me as though the thing was a relic, as indeed it is." The photo of the pink-plaid diary sits alone and starkly uncaptioned, needing no explication beyond itself; other photos, of the Frank family, the Secret Annexe, the others who hid there and the still others who kept them hidden, are generously labeled and accompany a text that briefly explains why the Franks went into hiding and summarizes, with plenty of quotes, the content of the diary itself.
Illustrations and maps accompany historical essays and interviews that heighten the tragedy of Anne's life but continue her legacy of hope.Professional Recommendation/Review #2:Dr. Beverly Kobrin (Children's Literature) One of the most compelling books to emerge from the horrors of World War II is Anne Frank: Diary of a Young Girl (Doubleday, 1967).
The first reviewer mentions how the photographs were taken by Anne Frank’s father and there are maps, historical essays, and interviews to describe her experience, which all support the authenticity of the story.
I think it is worth mentioning how much more informational this remembrance is of Anne compared to her diary, and there is more emotion because the reader is able to bring the story to life with photographs and memorabilia.
Professional Recommendation/Review #1: van der Rol, Ruud Anne Frank Beyond the Diary:: A Photographic RemembranceAssociates of the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam have set the diary in larger context, fleshing out the family history and briefly explaining Hitler's rise to power and events of World War II.
Readers will be fascinated and moved by this powerful book from the Anne Frank House in The Netherlands which provides insight into the life and times of a girl whose words continue to touch the world.
They also discuss the fascination of the book for the reader, while reading I was intrigued with the added information this review had.
When I was a young girl about 8 years old my mother I were shopping in a store.
There I saw a women with some numbers tattooed on her arm.
That was 50 years ago and you rarely saw someone with a tattoo, but never a woman.
I felt in my heart that there was something not right about this.
Sometimes I would lay in bed at night and think about that woman.
I’ve read many many books about the holocaust, my heart still hurts for all those precious lives that were taken.
This book is just what is says A Photographic Remembrance, very well done.
Such as the Jewish, homo-sexual, and different types of race.I would recommend this book to all my friends because it doesn't just talk about the holocaust, but it also talks about the life of a 13-15 year old girl.
I would write about my friends, family, and my life.The theme of this book was to just talk about Anne´s Franks biography and her life.
It also talked about what she had to go through during hiding, and when she got taking away.U I really liked this book and when I first read it I wanted to know more and more about the Nazis and Anne.
Revisiting Anne Frank’s world through the family’s extensive collection of photographs, contemporary photographs, maps, and illustrations make this a worthwhile read to discover what happened historically before, during, and after Anne’s diary was written.
As this book was written by a sociologist and historian on staff at the Anne Frank House museum in Amsterdam, the text is of exceptional quality.
The themes of “the victim” and “the fugitive” are addressed in the book.
Because of the exceptional illustrations, and photographs, along with the appealing text, students would be interested in reading or learning from this book.
If you are looking for a very well informed book told by pictures, "Anne Frank: Beyond the Diary - A Photographic Remembrance" is the perfect book for you.
As many know there has been many books written based on Anne Frank's diary, however, this book tells her story through family photos and photos of Germany from this time.
The photographic story begins with the day of Anne's birth and ends with photos of her father, Otto, who was the only survivor in the family through the Holocaust.
Anne Frank: Beyond the diary is in the genre of Biography's and is intended for children ages 10-13years old the intermediate/ advanced level readers.Anne Frank Beyond the Diary, is a book about the life of the young Jewish girl name Ann Frank who has been hiding in the secret Attic with her family for almost two years.
The reason for them hiding was because Hitler was coming to take the Jewish to concentration camps.
When they were discovered, Anne Frank and her family were taken to a concentration camp.
Anne Frank left her diary behind, which told the story about her life.
I’ve always thought Anne Frank: Beyond the Diary would serve as a great introduction to one the world’s most famous Holocaust victim — probably even people, in general, for someone too young to read the diary or even the diary itself.
I was, and still am, fascinated by World War II, but there are so few books out there that were age-appropriate for an eight-year-old who wants to know more about the Holocaust.It’s very ghostly seeing the pictures and knowing this was a young girl who died in such a horrific manner.It offers a lot of history — both of the Frank family and Nazi Germany in general — and with big, color-coded maps, it’s easy to watch the European landscape change from a bunch of tiny, independent countries into one large empire.
the plot in this book is that Anne and her family's life was great until Hitler.
want to be change what the life of a Jewish person was likes.Anne and her family had to go it to hiding to try and protect there self from the Nazis.
even though she wasn't alive she still got to be remembered by a lot of people who read her life story.
i give this book 4 stars out of 5 stars because it was good but some times it didn't really talk about her life but more on what was going on every where else.
Anne Frank Beyond the Diary is the most amazing book that you could read.
But I thought that the book was amazing.
I picked this book because I wanted to learn more about Anne Frank.
When we started learning about the Holocaust, and I heard about the concentration camps and that Anne Frank was sent to one, I felt so mad.
Then we had book groups then I saw that Ms. Theresa had Anne Frank Beyond the Diary I knew that this was the right book for me.
This why I picked this book.
I have always had vivid memories of the impact of that book, but with this publication, along with its hundreds of photographs, it powerfully brings back a wave of emotions about the war, this intelligent and sensitive young lady and the ordeal that the family endured.
The book also is able to move away from the diary and explain in detail what happened to each of the family members that died and also of those that survived.
There are few that have not read the classic diary, but if you would appreciate another reminder of the power of a fourteen year old and are prepared for all the different emotions that surface, please take a few hours and enjoy.
Anne Frank: Beyond the Diary is a valuable companion book to the original diary.
It consists of over one hundred pictures, many never before published, Anne's life before she was forced into hiding is explained.
We can imagine her hopes,dreams and the photographs and excerpts from her diaries expose the worsening political situations that marked the final years of her life.Finally there's a testimony of the people who last saw Anne and Margot alive reveals the tragedy that followed.
This book is a must read companion book to The Diary of Anne Frank.
What a great companion to the actual diary.
There are some great pictures of the actual "secret annex" where the Frank's and their Jewish friends lived for two years during WWII.
Otto Frank recreated many of the rooms as they would have looked when they lived there for the benefit of the photographers after the war was over.
In reality, the rooms were completely emptied and remain empty today.
This book adds great insight into how Anne and her family lived from day to day.
There are great photographs and mapped details that helped me better understand what the Jewish people as a whole endured.
I really enjoyed reading the Diary of Anne Frank because it was an exciting way of learning about the Holocaust.
I would recommend this book to everyone that hasn't read it.
The book makes you feel like you were a part of the story in the Holocaust since Anne tells you so many secrets which make her vulnerable, it also makes you want to listen and read more.
If there was a sequel I would read it, I would want to know how Anne ended up.
Anne Frank Beyond the Diary was published in collaboration with the Anne Frank house in the Netherlands; therefore, it is well-researched and has many photographs that were not published anywhere else.
This book would be a great resource in tandem with Anne Frank’s diary, either as an introduction or to be read immediately afterward.
I read Diary of a Young Girl a few times in my youth, sometimes for class assignments but also for personal reading, and the photos in this book of the Secret Annex helped me to imagine the difficulties of living in secret for those two years.
