https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/344262.Bloodfever
Probably a little of all three.Once we get into the meat of the story, it's very plain to see that Mac hasn't changed, although she sure would like us to think so.
If you want me to think you're serious about being a badass and that you've changed, (like you've told me NUMEROUS times throughout this book,) then actually SHOW me with your actions.
People don't think or talk like that, so stop it.I thought this book was weaker than the last, and I felt angrier while reading it.
Mac Version 2.0Mac has started to change, she originally was that southern Barbie girl who loved pink, cute accessories and fab nail polish. That girl is still inside her battling with the new Mac she is becoming. Why is she changing? Because every time she turns around someone is either lying to her or some Fae petunia-hole is trying to kill her. Then we have Jerrico Barrons. He tries my nerves a bit in this book...and then in the last 50 or so pages-I get hooked. The tension between him and Ma
Mac Version 2.0Mac has started to change, she originally was that southern Barbie girl who loved pink, cute accessories and fab nail polish.
That girl is still inside her battling with the new Mac she is becoming.
The tension between him and Mac finally really heats up.
It's fecking hawt.This book did start slowly because it contains a whole lot of filler for what is to come, and it's not the greatest series that ever lived...but it is one of the ones that are just pure fun.
And what becomes of our girl Mac?
She starts to grow some big ole balls.
:))I'll always be biased for this series and I love Barrons and Mac and the world so much!
Every time.Our first annual re-read of the Fever series with the MacHalo group starts October 26, 2015!
Here's the schedule (sorry, I can't keep to a schedule with this series - it takes over and I have to devour it once I start):Darkfever: October 26Bloodfever: November 9Faefever: November 23Dreamfever: December 7Shadowfever: December 21Iced: January 5Burned: January 12New thoughts on third read: Wow. How did I ever give this anything less than 5 stars?!?!?!
(view spoiler)[ I love that Barrons tattooed Mac anyway because she should have let him and he proved that he knows what he's talking about.
She is recovering from the ordeal she experienced at the end of the previous book and at the same time has to face the aftermath of her actions - Inspector O'Daffy is getting very interested in finding out more about the Dark Zone and why Mac is not going back home; Malluce's death is still uncertain; Rocky O'Bannion's brother, Derek, surfaces to poke around in Mac's business; and finally, a mysterious specter keeps following MacKayla around giving her creeps...In my opinion, Bloodfever is even better than Darkfever.
Death-by-sex Fae Prince V'lane is even more mysterious and his intentions toward Mac are unclear.
4.5!!Done! I'm just ripping through this series, it's quite addicting! This one was just a little better than the fist book, they both ended too soon, but I like how satisfying it is to finish these short books. I'm having a lot of fun with this, just the right amount of action and plot but the romance is one slowwwwwww burn.
I mean she's been mystically undressed and nearly performing involuntary sex acts in public (who hasn't?), rape-kissed by a drunken Irish man (uh, ditto), hit on by two seemingly normal history nerds (I persist, who hasn't?) and she's also teased inexorably, and now kissed and dry-humped, by the hot man she spends 90% of her time with (who wouldn't want to be?) yet she STILL isn't getting any.I'll warn you now that when i start to think about Jericho, my mind goes into a mixed state of paranoia and reckless abandon.
The second installment of Bloodfever is intense, powerful, dramatic and clever.We see a great deal of character growth from out favorite characters as well as a progression in the plot, albeit a small one.The writing is, as always, stylish and immersive. The world is complicated, mysterious and intriguing.Overall, this book is a fantastic second installment in what is an amazing, refreshing and enjoyable series.PS. I'm either going to kill Barrons sooner or later, or do very, very, very naughty things to him.
It didn’t want to.
“You?” He didn’t sound Irish.“Little of this, little of that.
“Alina was wearing this yellow skirt and sweater set, and you were dressed from head to toe in pink, Mac, with a little rainbow ribbon tied around a blond wisp of your hair.”“If I was a minnow and they were sharks, he (Barrons) was one of those yet undiscovered fish that lurk in the deepest, darkest reaches of the ocean where sunlight and man never go.”“Never believe anything’s dead until you’ve burned it, poked around in its ashes, and then waited a day or two to see if anything rises from them.”“He’s dying, you know.” - Mac“Good for him.” – Barrons“I played volleyball with my sister.
Plot: 5 starsCharacters: 5 starsWriting: 5 starsSexiness: 5 starsEnding: 5 starsOverall: 5 stars
MacKayla Lane has discovered and accepted and come to terms of the gift of being a sidhe seer, with special powers, one of these being the ability to sense the Sinsar Dubh, an ancient book of the blackest magic even seen, which holds the key to the balance of power between the Fae and humans.
It’s the only thing that will save humanity from being destroyed by the Fae.I am so totally crazy about Mac. I love her view of her world…she’s lost a bit of that “I’m so into pink”…not totally at this point.
4.5 stars.This one starts off where Darkfever finished. Mac is still in Dublin, trying to find out who killed her sister and why she was killed.She is still living in Barron's house. Her parents are not happy and they want her home pronto. “One day you may kiss a man you can’t breathe without, and find breadth is of little consequence.” They are still on the lookout for the Sinsar Dubh.Who can she trust? The strange creatures are still everywhere. “The first promise we had to make ….. was that u
Mac is still in Dublin, trying to find out who killed her sister and why she was killed.She is still living in Barron's house.
But he was Barrons and I was Mac, and a blossoming of lust was about as likely as orchids blooming in Antartica.
Still nothing going on between Mac and Barrons so I am guessing it will be pretty explosive when it does happen.
Maybe it has something to do with the fact that it is partly set in the part of Ireland that I lived for nearly 25 years….


Sencillamente me ha encantado.
Things are heating up for the Fever series!No sophomore slump here!  It's a strange new world out there and the rules have changed: It's every princess for herself.   Ive discovered why I've been sucked into this series. I can't predict or classify the characters. In a world where literary characters are painfully formulaic, Karen Marie Moning is blazing her own wild road with this series and I'm just happy to be taken along for the ride.I read this entire book cover-to-cover in a single day...
The reader can never really be sure who is a "good guy" and who is a "bad guy" in this urban fantasy adventure on the dark streets of Dublin.I'm beginning to think that no character is exclusively "good" or "bad" - I'm starting to believe that everyone's motives exist in a shade of grey.MAC
I received paperbacks of the first two books in this seres from my friend Terry as a Christmas gift, and now I must set out to buy the rest of the Fever Series!
Second Re-read: November 2015.It dragged a little in the middle but the CAVE SCENE IS PERFECTION.First Re-read: November 2014 I'm still giving it 4 stars.  "One day you may kiss a man you cant breathe without, and find breath is of little consequence."   Buddy Read   with a bunch of weirdos. Couldn't find better people to do it.Mac is growing and learning. Never forget she has not only lost her sister but every certainty about pretty much everything since she came to Dublin and somehow she hasn'
Barrons himself said when he thought she was all useless fluff and nails, she showed some teeth.
"Did you break once?""Yes," he said finally.
Black and white are nothing more than lofty ideals in our minds, the standards by which we try to judge things, and map out our place in the world in relevance to them."
Barrons is everything I want you'd ever wanted in a man if you liked incredibly strong, frustratingly enigmatic, impossible and dominating men.
"Yes, I have loved, Ms. Lane, and although it‘s none of your business, I have lost.
Oh, I'm judging you, Barrons...
Moning has a strange yet brilliant way of giving the reader glimpses of events that have just happened behind the scenes that leaves you thinking: "Wait, did I just skip a page or something?" The details seem to appear magically a few paragraphs or pages later, blending effortlessly into the story.
I can't resist the guy.), (view spoiler)[Fiona being a total bitch: this series really needed a bitch from hell !
(view spoiler)[I think it's a shame that Mac didn't stay part-Fae, it would have been such a fantastic twist to the story!
Black and white are nothing more than lofty ideals in our minds, the standards by which we try to judge things, and map out our place in the world in relevance to them."An obsessed man(?) with dangerous secrets.A seductive prince with his own agenda.A ruthless Grand Mistress.And in the middle of this deadly game of chess where the lives of the pawns are insignificant, a no-longer innocent girl who was forced to be a woman that survives but she no longer recognizes.When Mac traveled to Ireland to solve the mystery of her sister's brutal murder, she wasn't expecting a book to be responsible of the end of the world.Sinsar Dubh the long lost Fae book, written by the Unseelie King himself.
Where do I begin?It was sort of good, I was even heading toward 4 stars when I started the book, giving me interesting, emotionally connective banter (see my notes) that I was starting to feel glad I continued with Book 2.
With the following adds:* Events that happen in this series seem to be planned so that the reader can slowly discover the various powers of the various characters, and the ultimate mystery that keeps people going - who is Jericho Barrons?
OR, I might just read other people's reviews and save myself the $ and time.* Given above, events in this series don't seem to follow much plot or evolution.
I know you’ve saved my girl, Mac, from some horrid situations (don’t think I haven’t noticed it’s always at the last minute and always on your own terms, though) but I don’t trust you half as far as I can throw you, asshole.
Start talking about WHY Mac should trust you because she’s getting herself into dangerous situations by trying to be as evasive as you.
Do not test me, jackass.WATCH YOUR BACK!The Vampire NinjaPS: (view spoiler)[Don’t act all fucking incredulous when she suggests a way for her to survive that you wouldn't think of.
4.5 *I LOVE THIS SERIES, AND BARRONS, AND MAYBE V'LANE A LITTLE TOO* STARS.More action, more suspense, more fear, more doubt, more evil, more darkness; all of these elements sure don't make Mac's life any easier. But while the world is turning more evil, she is gaining more knowledge and strength and one thing she makes sure to never lose is: hope.  "Hope is a critical thing. Without it, we are nothing. Hope shapes the will. The will shapes the world. I might have been suffering a dearth of hope
4.5 *I LOVE THIS SERIES, AND BARRONS, AND MAYBE V'LANE A LITTLE TOO* STARS.More action, more suspense, more fear, more doubt, more evil, more darkness; all of these elements sure don't make Mac's life any easier.
But while the world is turning more evil, she is gaining more knowledge and strength and one thing she makes sure to never lose is: hope.
I might have been suffering a dearth of hope but I had a few things left: will, desperation in spades, and a chance."
"Being touched by Jericho Barrons with kindness makes you feel like you must be the most special person in the world.
Rereading with my buddies, edgy and sleepless. Bring on the Barrons!!New thoughts after reread: I was actually thinking that Mac was growing a bit in this story, and I was really proud of her for standing up to the Mob-guy... until she utters this ridiculousness: "Go ahead, O'Bannion, come and get it. I'm fed up with jack-petunias like you." Original review from 2014:So, in Georgia they call the hot lava game "don't touch the alligator"? That's just weird! Everyone knows that when you are kids,
Bring on the Barrons!!New thoughts after reread: I was actually thinking that Mac was growing a bit in this story, and I was really proud of her for standing up to the Mob-guy...
There was even an epic episode of Community where Abed and Troy start a giant hot lava game at the school for Troy's last day.
And, Mac has gotten a tiny bit smarter, more so in the beginning of the book, but she has a long way to go to get to your average person's start point.It seems pretty obvious, though, that Mac is still making way too many stupid assumptions.
Mac makes me think of an ostrich who buries her moronic little head to the sand right after painting a target line in pink on her ass. She still is delusional, too stupid to live, yappy about clothing. But she changed a little bit. That's all I'm giving to her.Barrons is ... sigh... MINE!!!Story line got really interesting and there were twists I wouldn't expect from Mac. The author had little spasms of little did she know moments here and there but they were barely there, compared to the first book. Buddy read with my awesome ladies Jill and Sleepless.
[4.5 Stars]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------Dear Mac,Quick question: (view spoiler)[Can you, as a Sidhe-Seer, actually have sex with a Fae because when you touch them surely they would freeze for a bit?It would be funny once but I think the novelty would wear off extremely quickly.
Barrons vs V’mlane (Round #2)
(view spoiler)[You were winning in this book until you went and ruined it.Let’s have a look.
(hide spoiler)]Also, you still look like this.The winner this round is kinda: V’mlane.
It’s a little hard for me to write a review for Bloodfever, because I finished it and immediately started the audio of Faefever.
At the end of Bloodfever there’s a lot of unanswered questions but I was able to pop in the next book, Faefever, right after finishing, so I’m not going to complain!
I have to say, when I first started listening to this audio I wasn’t pleased that it was a woman narrating every voice, even Barrons, but now that I’ve been listening to it, I don’t mind.
I love the southern voice for Mac, it’s pitch perfect.
Re-read: 2014Things happen in Bloodfever. Interesting things. But none of them matter.The only thing that matters is that Mac And Barrons finally have a hot Angry Make-out session.Yep.That's what I took away from a 300 page book.*shrugs*Original review: 2009This book is even better than the first book in the series, Darkfever. I can't wait to read the next one! A big "Thank You" goes out to Jill for telling me to get all of the books at once, 'cause these cliffhanger endings would have killed me otherwise!
Action-packed and jammed with suspense, this second book in the Fever series is an insane, wild ride that filled me with doubts and left me craving for more.“It's a strange new world out there and the rules have changed: It's every princess for herself.” Alongside the plot, the character development is progressing just right.
She is learning the ways of this world, getting smarter and coming out of her pink and pastel cocoon.
On to Faefever now, in hopes of getting some of those answers and uncovering a few mysteries.
We got no real answers in this one, especially from Barrons.
I think she kind of has to with this new world she's been thrown in.
Moving on..Like any other UF novel, there are a few twists, and most of them just add to the questions already in the air.
I like lots of action, I like mystery and I love a well built world; believe me, this novel delivers.
The world building was formed in the first book, but it's deepened and I enjoy the vivid descriptions of everything.
I especially liked when the Shade flipped Mac off.
