https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42486.Betsy_and_Tacy_Go_Downtown
Down Town is my favorite of the first four books and ranks near my favorites in the series entire.
Nope, just Down Town, because like Winona, I like to go in doors marked "Private, Keep Out." There are so many good stories twining though this book- Mrs. Poppy's, of course.
12/2009 This is my favorite of the pre-high-school Betsy-Tacy books.
This does sometimes devolve into name-calling and braid-tugging, but generally Down Town ranks near the top.The girls are 12 and they don't quite fit anywhere- not with Julia and Katie who are being walked home from school by boys, and not with Margaret and Freddie who are rioting through the streets shouting.

I'm surprised at how much I liked this, considering the first three were all in a style that could justly be described as 'plodding'. Lovelace is proving herself to be rather witty and evermore fantastic at characterisation, so I'm going to lean towards the generous side and give this four stars.In the next book, we meet the long-anticipated Joe. Will Gilbert Blythe be surpassed? Find out in my next review!!¡!
This is the last of the "younger" Betsy books, taking us to turn of the century Minnesota, horse-less carriages, and many wonderful new friends.
We also read about the tradition of the annual christmas shopping trip that Betsy and Tacy take together.
The Betsy-Tacy books were highly autobiographical and Lovelace perfectly captures the innocence and magic of childhood.
I had the pleasure of visiting "Deep Valley" (aka Mankato, Minnesota) for a Betsy-Tacy convention back in 1996.
I have to thank my sister, Julie for introducting these books to me and changing my life.
This wonderful children's/young adult series makes me nostalgic for the childhood I never had.
Loving this series! Pretty sure I didn't choke up last time I read it...
Betsy's writing at this time centers around mimicry of contemporary "ten-cent novels" like Lady Audley's Secret (which, by the way, I loved).
The titles are things like "The Repentence of Lady Clinton" and "Hardly More than a Child." I would LOVE to read these.
Although Maud Hart really did have an estranged theatrical uncle, it's clear that the reunion scene is fake here, because it's just so book-y.
That said, there are some classic scenes here, like Betsy/Tacy/Tib attempting to hypnotize Winona, and them inducting Winona into their method of Christmas (window) shopping, and Betsy going to the new library by herself!
The book opens with references to Lady Audley’s Secret and contains many delightful allusions to books throughout its pages.Twelve year old Betsy is an aspiring writer.
Instead of condemning her, her father gives her a library card and 15 cents for lunch so that she can spend all day Saturday in town, reading the classics.
Her trips to town open up a new world to her.Betsy and Tacy Go Downtown is a book about simple pleasures and great kindnesses.
With its references to classic books, it’s good writing, and it’s pleasant tone, I (who am 52 years old) found it hard to put down.
My Evelyn says, "This is a really, really good book and I wish it had never ended....or any other of these books, either. I wish they never ended!"This may be my favorite one so far in this series. The adventures of Betsy, Tacy and Tib (and their new friend Winona!) get a little more exciting with each book. Still very simple, these stories continue to delight and entertain us. So happy to be reading these with my daughter as I didn't read them myself as a child.
This fourth book features Betsy going downtown by herself, to go to the library and have a meal by herself in a restaurant.
I think every girl of twelve would feel quite grown up and excited by this.
I also love the Christmas "shopping." I definitely remember picking out what I would buy if I could.
I think we all still have fun with this!I do wish there had been more about the library, actually.
How did she get all her books home--they could check out so many at once.
How did she really feel about all those classics?
I am loving all these books! I somehow missed out on reading them as a kid and now I'm finding in them the perfect summer reading experience for an old-fashioned grown-up girl like me. Lovelace was such a fabulous writer. My reader's heart loves all these characters, and as a mom reading these books I aspire to be just like Betsy's mom. I hope to share these books with my three daughters so they can grow up with Betsy and Tacy.
These books are excellent. Yes. They are dated. There are references to theatrical practices that have thankfully gone away.However, these books are so matter-of-fact to the heart of how girls grow up. Stripped of technology and peer pressure and too-busy-ness of the present day, this is how it is to be twelve.My daughter would adore the library day (me too) that Betsy has. It's magic.Just read them and judge for yourself.
Once again, Betsy and Tacy exceeded expectations!In what I would call the final installment of the “childhood” portion of this series, “Betsy and Tacy Go Downtown” – the girls are now 12 years old and, according to them, “all grown up.”Their escapades continue – riding in a horseless carriage (a car!), beguiling their new friend, Winona, going to the theatre, befriending an unexpected companion, acting on stage and discovering a long, lost relative!So many things to adore in this book!
For those who love the theatre (a paramount requirement in our family!) there are several chapters on that theme.
This is the final Betsy Tacy book for us.
I love when they go to the oprea house and they are full of all that excitement of uninhibited childhood.This is my favorite in the series.
I love Betsy's first trip to the new library where she sits in front of the cozy fire.
I love the wisdom from her parents about how she should read classic books to become a good writer.
Love Mrs. Poppy.
Ohh and I do love the Christmas in this one and how the entire Ray family is excited for little Margaret to get her little doll that says "mama" if it's squeezed.Sigh....I wish I could jump into this book and be their friend.
But I have a lot of reading goals this year, so I opted to just continue with book four and try and get back to the rest of the series "someday".
The book covers several adventures of 12yo Betsy and her best friends Tacy and Tib (which makes me wonder why the series isn't the Betsy-Tacy-Tib series?), mainly focused around the town's Opera House and a few plays that come through town.
As far as the Literary Map of the U.S. goes, I thought the descriptions of the town, the people, and events, were all very well done and really put me there in small town Minnesota.
The girls are now 12 and again I thought it would be too "old" for Mary Ann to understand.
There was also a moment when the reality of Santa Claus was discussed and I was worried things were going to get pretty dicey and Mary Ann was going to get an unexpected shock, but luckily Betsy, Tacy, and Tip are very sensible girls and have agreed to believe in Santa Claus until they are at least out of high school.
I saw one person's comment that the world of Betsy-Tacy probably doesn't exist in America, but I disagree. I can remember being old enough to go downtown without parents. Sharing it with a best friend or two made it even better. What makes Lovelace's books so great is that it was, and in a few special places still is, life in small-town America.
This book was more mature and included how not to beg for something you want really badly and also discovering the beauty of libraries. Also, that opening drawing of Betsy sitting in a tree writing makes me insanely jealous. Who doesn't want to be writing in a tree? Well, maybe a few people but I hope not too many :)
Loved. Reading these makes me think of the experiences my grandma Anne must have had growing up in Winnipeg during this time period. Love watching these girls grow-up. This was a great one - from the horseless carriage to the library to the play - thoroughly enjoyed.
Really enjoyed this one. It's fun to see america at this time period, as opposed to Canada or at the pioneer time. And the lost uncle was marvelous!
My favorite Betsy-Tacy so far! So good.
Well, I never figured I'd read all of the first four Betsy-Tacy books, but I did.
I've got to do a better job of choosing "adult"-style books and not keep coming up with crap, which is, of course, why I kept reverting to yet another dose of Betsy-Tacy.
So, Betsy, Tacy, and Tib are now 12 and are grown up enough to do things like go downtown on their own.
Betsy has big plans to be a writer, but her mother thinks she needs a better class of literature to read than the paper backs she gets from the housemaid.
The librarian is, of course, awesome, and opens up a whole new world to Betsy.
If I were to put this on a shelf, I feel like it would be right at home with The Happy Holisters, the classic Nancy Drews and the oldest Boxcar Children books.
So, if you like those, by all means pick these up!
For this book in particular, I was very proud of the girls for growing up in how they make and treat friends.
I also liked how intuitive Betsy is about Mrs. Poppy and how she is consistently, but respectfully and politely, asking adults to step up and help out.
This was always my absolute favorite "Betsy Tacy" book as a child.
It's the first time I've read it in many years.
Betsy's trip to the library was just as thrilling as when I was about 10 years old, reading "Betsy and Tacy Go Downtown" for the first time.
I still think it's a lovely little poem too!!!
It also makes me think of the best things about my childhood.
This book will always be a part of me, and I'm forever grateful that I stumbled upon the Betsy Tracy books, that day in the Children's section, at Barnes and Noble so many years ago.
Betsy’s mother and father are supportive of her dream to be a writer (and her sister Julia’s dream to become a performer of some kind).
It also makes me sad, because the world is so very different now, and my son is missing out on a lot of the things which made my own childhood magical, the same sorts of things that Betsy experienced as a kid growing up in a wholesome and safe environment.
I really wanted to stay enveloped in the cozy enchantment of Betsy’s world forever.
Betsy,Tacy, Tib, and the newest addition to the gang, Winona, have wonderful adventures in their hometown of Deep Valley.
A new desk for Betsy, a brand new library in town, first rides in a horseless carriage, plays at the Opera House, Christmas shopping, one of the first telephones in town, acting in a play, and finally, the homecoming of the mysterious Uncle Keith.
My favorite part was the long, drawn-out game Winona played on the other girls when she had "comps" to the Opera House.
Betsy, Tacy, and Tib try all kinds of tricks to get Winona to pick them to go with her.

More adventures of Betsy, Tacy, and Tib now age 12. In one chapter, the 3 girls try to hypnotize Winona, another classmate, by staring at her all day. Betsy's writing career begins to take off with much loving support from her family, friends,and the librarian at the brand new Carnegie Public Library.The stories are quite autobiographical and I want to go to Mankato,MN to find all the real-life Maud Hart sites.
This was so fun! I think it is my favorite book in the series so far!! :D Betsy, Tacy, Tib, and Winona had some interesting experiences in the fourth book and I enjoyed reading them though I was able to predict that (view spoiler)[Mr. Kee was Uncle Keith, but that part was so sweet! (hide spoiler)]And Mrs. Poppy was great too. ;) And the library... Horseless carriages... XD XD 5 stars! :)
Some great parts but also some parts that haven't aged as well and took explaining to my 8 year old (Uncle Tom's Cabin, book burning, comments about body shape).
