https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105704.The_Big_Sleep_Farewell_My_Lovely
Review of The Big Sleep onlyWhat did it matter where you lay once you were dead? In a dirty sump or in a marble tower on top of a high hill? You were dead, you were sleeping the big sleep… ~ Philip Marlowe This is the first time I’ve read The Big Sleep or Raymond Chandler. The novel is the first in Chandler’s detective series about private detective Philip Marlowe. It is a hardboiled (that’s actually a genre…I didn’t know that), crime and/or detective novel, set in late 1930s Los Angeles.My full review: http://100greatestnovelsofalltimeques...
Raymond Chandler seems to be everywhere. His style, his language, his worldview have been recycled so many times they've almost turned into a cliche: cynical loner navigating a diverse and morally ambiguous modern landscape with nothing but his wits and a biting sense of humor. So it's a total revelation to actually read him and find just how fresh, funny, exciting, appealing and beautiful his writing is.
I like the physical quality of the writing, the unnecessary bit about the sailors, their girlfriends and the camels, the characterization of the hot dog merchant’s voice, and the big blue bus, but I look for more in a novel, and there is more to Farewell, My Lovely.The principal characters, led by Philip Marlowe, the detective, all get the Chandler treatment in two senses: what they look like (features, clothes, style of walking) and how they talk.
My rating: 3-1/2The Big Sleep introduced readers and movie goers to Philip Marlowe, according to the Los Angeles Times, the "quintessential urban private eye." There were a whole lot of writers that later imitated Raymond Chandler's hero.
In Chandler's second novel, Farewell My Lovely, Philip Marlowe, private detective uses the "N" word more than any Spike Lee movie as he witnesses the killing of a bartender, in a Negro nightclub, and then of a client, who seems to be connected to a jewelry theft ring, illegal drug sales, and probably more.
The last time I had seen Dr. Cliff Harbour, we had spent time talking about the book I was writing as well as the book that he had written,  John Dewey and the Future of Community College Education . During that visit, he insisted that I read  The Big Sleep & Farewell, My Lovely  by Raymond Chandler. In fact, he opened the book to the first page and had me read the first couple paragraphs. He wanted to point it out, and what I noted while reading the book, was that Raymond Chandler sparingly
The last time I had seen Dr. Cliff Harbour, we had spent time talking about the book I was writing as well as the book that he had written, 
John Dewey and the Future of Community College Education
. During that visit, he insisted that I read 
The Big Sleep & Farewell, My Lovely
by Raymond Chandler.
In fact, he opened the book to the first page and had me read the first couple paragraphs.
He wanted to point it out, and what I noted while reading the book, was that Raymond Chandler sparingly used his words.
Read more
I wasn't planning on reading both books, but since Chandler's novels are such quick reads, I plowed through The Big Sleep in a couple of days and was stranded without anything else to do but go on.
The hardboiled, sarcastic dialogue of Phil Marlowe was the real treat of both of these noir mysteries.
The Big Sleep was by far the best yarn, and one that takes the reader on the discovery with Marlowe.
Farewell, My Lovely was an exciting adventure, but the narrative feels a bit more 3rd person.
Separately, I give The Big Sleep 5 stars and Farewell, My Lovely 4.
Didn't particularly feel concerned about the results of the plot, as the stakes didn't feel high, but the characterization made up for it to the point that I enjoyed myself thoroughly.
Sat this down too often and never made a lot of sense, and I was Ok with that too.
Lots of memorable scenes.
Zippy reads l, but if these were long I'd be having doubts about whether it is worth it.
I keep getting this writer mixed up with Raymond Carver, who was Murakami's big influence, so I'd keep thinking of Murakami as I read this.
The Big Sleep and Farewell, My Lovely are both great mystery stories with beautiful writing.
Well written crime novels are an unusual thing!
The detective, Philip Marlowe, is such a funny and interesting character.
The mystery thing keeps you guessing what's going to happen, but the visual descriptions are also surprisingly enjoyable.
I remember an incredibly beautiful passage describing rain.
I think Raymond Chandler is the best of his genre!
(Hammett is also great, but his writing isn't as beautiful.
Spillane is okay...
and Robert Parker is fun and funny and light, but his writing is just not at Chandler's level)
Chandler is one of my favorite all time authors. I still havne't read everything he's ever written, but I'm working on it. but of all his work, The Big Sleep was his first and best novel. Funny, with a characters you can't help but like, and not a word wasted anywhere. Too bad Chandler himself was reputedly a total bastard, and an alcoholic, too.
I find myself drawn more and more to detective stories. These are quite good. Detective Marlowe always seems to be a step ahead of the rest of the players and, even though he might get beat up a little, he always comes out on top. It's also great to see someone solve crime without a cell phone and DNA evidence.
Classic hardboiled private investigator stuff. The best the genre ever got. With all the humor and the crazy language, all the dark scenes, all the twisted plots. You have to read this at some point in your life.
The writing was fabulous! It was disappointing to not have one of the murders solved. Apparently Chandler thought he made it clear in the novel and when he went back and read it, he realized it was not clear.
What I like about this one is not only how the case keeps complicating itself as the bodies start to stack up, but how it exposes the machinations of a secret world, with all the various elements moving in and out of the shadow, old friends to Marlowe but new to us, an economy dependent on nothing honest but oddly vital all the same.
He keeps the pieces moving often enough that the particulars of the case hardly seem important and the real joy comes in watching Marlowe attempt to wind his way amongst factions who all seem to be working at cross-purposes and together with each other.
The book has definitely aged poorly given how basically everyone from immigrants to poc are described with slurs.
The book isn’t overtly demonizing, just full of language that should definitely be left in the past.
The plots of both novels aren’t bad, but “Farewell, My Lovely” is definitely the stronger book of the two, even though I had only planned on reading “The Big Sleep”.
An interesting read if you’re looking to get into these sorts of detective novels but because of how poorly the books have aged I wouldn’t go recommending them to friends.
I loved reading Chandler in my teens, his writing style is easy to get into.Rereading it now in my 60's I am a bit more critical of the plots which in all honesty aren't very good (Who did kill the Sternwood's Chauffeur ?). The truth is however its all about Marlowe, and his interaction with the sleazy world and even sleazier characters that he investigates. Enjoy it on that level and forget about the plot.
Well written but a little dated. Touch guy detective is a bit worn out, but must remember that is started here. Good writing.
The Big Sleep Only - a little dated for me but some of Chandler’s descriptions are clever “her eyelashes cuddled her cheeks”
Thus begins a chain of events which will see Marlowe getting involved with shady psychics, crooked cops, jewel thieves, the beautiful, young wife of an elderly man, and, naturally, stumbling over a corpse or two.
And Marlowe even finds a kind word for Velma, this after her having set in train a chain of events that has led to several deaths, including, in the end, her own.
In the next Marlowe novel, The High Window, Marlowe is described as someone to whom things happen, which makes him dangerous.
Marlowe happens to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, and that means no end of trouble for a whole lot of people.
I thought the hard-boiled style would seem dated, and I thought I wouldn’t be terribly engaged with The Big Sleep, as I’d seen the Bogart film version a few years before.
The Big Sleep was a revelation: I could only imagine what it would have been like to read it when it first came out, having nothing to compare it to.
I read Farewell My Lovely right after, and while it was good, The Big Sleep was definitely my favourite of the two.
What a great ride; I could definitely read these stories again in a heartbeat, and think I would enjoy them even more.
It's from a time when those isms were commonplace, and accepted, but great literature, or literature of any kind, usually rises above.
He doesn't.Wikipedia:The Big Sleep (1939) is a hardboiled crime novel by Raymond Chandler, the first to feature detective Philip Marlowe.
The work has been adapted twice into film, once in 1946 and again in 1978.
The title is a euphemism for death; it refers to a rumination in the book about "sleeping the big sleep".Farewell, My Lovely is a 1940 novel by Raymond Chandler, the second novel he wrote featuring Los Angeles private eye Philip Marlowe.
It was adapted for the screen three times.
Why on earth has it taken me so long to read Raymond Chandler?
I read The Big Sleep for our book club.
And then I blew right through Farewell, My Lovely, (which I think was a little better.) I should mention that there are slurs and slights everywhere, on almost every minority you can think of.
Also interesting are his women characters, many of whom privileged and/or degenerate, especially in The Big Sleep.
In Big Sleep, the drinking is just pervasive, but in Farewell, other characters are calling Marlowe out on drinking too much, and he even gets "the DTs" at one point.
My star rating is based on the lumping-together of the two novels. The Big Sleep I would give four stars on its own- engaging, fantastic language, great characters and thematic nuances. Farewell My Lovely I would give two stars on its own- tired language, facile characters; it's like Chandler was tired of writing these novels and had a predictable formula, which didn't quite work with the strange cast of characters he'd assembled, none of whom were adequately examined in the course of the book. Overall then, three stars for the collection, despite how much I enjoyed The Big Sleep.
Great insight into 1930s lingo. Makes me wish we would bring some of it back and I can tell someone to "dust" if I want them to leave. Also paints a fantastic picture of LA during that era. Overall, a very good detective story - man without allies trying to survey in a dirty world and the women who throw themselves at him.Should be noted that Farewell, My Lovely far more brutal then The Big Sleep.
I can't really decide how I feel abt this. I mean, I'm a fan of the film, but...the book left me a little disappointed. It's interesting to note the complete absence of any black identity in in Film Noir films, yet this book beings with the killing of a black club owner (a killing that is subsequentky forgoteen abt and not dealt with--yet through out the entire book the characters refer to "the killing if the ni**er...."). The action is also a little bit lack luster :-/
Chandler's prose is remarkable but I found myself never able to get going with this. I love Marlowe's snappy self-effacement but there was something about the long blocks of description that made my eyes glaze over. I'd read more once I'm done getting through Sin City. Too much noir can make an even keeled guy like myself feel a little less than jake.
Two of the better examples of the hard-boiled genre. Both novels are a thrill ride full of tough men, corrupt cops and femme fatales. Chandler's prose really comes alive in the original language (I had read them both in Spanish years ago), to the point where you can almost smell the cigarrette smoke and taste the cheap whiskey after each reading session. Essential reading for fans of the genre.
so far i really like it. it's hilarious.the big sleep was good. all the cheesy PI talk... which i guess was made famous by this story and it's contemporaries. i quit in the middle of farewell, my lovely. must have been boring.
Chandler and Hammett are elevated from genre detective novels by the quality of prose and the great sardonic humor and wit. These two books are also great for their illustration of life on the wrong side of the tracks in L.A. in the 30s.
A confusing, but highly entertaining and satisfying read. You don't even have to understand the mystery or the outcome of the case to enjoy Marlowe's wise-cracking, hard-bit existence as a private eye. A must read for everyone.
Pretty good so far. I like these early hard-boiled detective thrillers. Pulpy.Finished - Great book, great movie. Bogart rocks in this - no surprise - and the film runs impressively close to the book.
