https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16248270-chocolates-for-breakfast
Never, I repeat never read a published work by an 18 year old. It's a sad swim in the ocean of the ultimate artist-gods. Pathetic in sooo many ways (the emerging poetics of the writer reeking of fervor and expectation; the grubby fad-following fingers of the desperate publishers...). But if you DO feel an 18 year olds project should be given a glance, rely on "Bonjour tristesse", whose American doppelganger is this sad, repetitious, megamelodramatic wreck.P.S. Read "Kiffe Kiffe demain" instead, dammitt! (Even better than Bonjour Tristesse!)
Her roommate is also her best friend, Janet; however, when we meet Courtney, she doesn't spend her time with people her own age.
This is where the story starts, but it quickly evolves into a journey for Courtney.
She experiences hardships and develops very quickly into a young adult who associates with party people.
I liked this book a lot even though it's written in a rather simplistic manner.
Because of these reasons, I see why this book is considered a classic, and I definitely think it's worth a read.
Va da sé che non capisco come un libro quale “Cioccolata a colazione” di Pamela Moore sia potuto andare a finire del dimenticatoio, e non dedicherò altre parole a questo mistero al quale guardo con sdegno.
Impegnata a salvare le apparenze, non si cura di indebitarsi per una cifra molto più alta di quella che potrà restituire.Ma la nota dolente di questo romanzo è il personaggio di Janet, compagna di stanza di Courtney presso Scaisbrooke e sua Caronte per la bella e giovane vita di New York, è un personaggio tragico all’inverosimile, lo scarto della società, il prodotto di un mondo che non si cura di volersi bene, e di voler bene ai propri figli.
read during my College Years.I Remember: a girl comes of age in trashy 50s Los Angeles by way of sleazy Hollywood and its sleazier residents... a light, fast read... shallow, overly snarky, homophobic... a brightly-hued & fluffy bit of nihilism... somewhat enjoyable, often fun in a pulpy sort of way... the best-selling Less Than Zero of its generation... women can be sexist too!... apparently the author published the novel at age 18... and committed suicide at age 26. sad!
Courtney Farrell is a 15-year-old boarding school student with divorced bicoastal parents.
She has little interaction with her parents (they actually forget about her over spring break, leaving her alone at school for a couple of days), so her only advice comes from Janet, her roommate and best friend; well, her only friend.
After a breakdown Courtney leaves school and moves to Hollywood with her actress mother.
I did like that Courtney is a loyal friend, and tries her best to make a way for herself.
I loved this little gem, but then again, I love coming-of-age stories. And I love 1950s New York, and lots of descriptions of ice clinking in cocktails, so not too surprising. The narrator had such an interesting voice and made me remember very clearly what it was like to be sixteen.
Written by an 18-year old girl who started at Barnard College at 16, Chocolates for Breakfast is a sad, frenetic, pensive, self-indulgent, and deliciously dramatic novel of the late 1950s, Hollywood, and that horrible transition from child to adult.Set in 1956, the novel follows Courtney Farrell, who at 15 is pulled out of her posh Connecticut boarding school when the school notifies her parents of Courtney's depression.
(Certainly, more resonated with me in this book than in Salinger's.) While 'shocking' in the day, I'm not sure this book is any more graphic or dramatic than today's YA or New Adult, although those who are uncomfortable with teenagers drinking, smoking, and 'seducing' might want to pass on this one.While the novel was entertaining, I will say the extras captured my attention more.
Unexpectedly brilliant. I really enjoyed this and read it in one sitting.
This is because it submerged me in the process of the spiral of despair experienced by so many people who come to feel alienated from....humanity, I guess.
For its great authenticity of feeling I put it into an all time fave category though it is hardly great literature.
Misery is not uplifting but it is a horrible reality.So, this poor young girl (by which I mean the author) wrote this book which bears parallels to many a teenager's life (certainly to mine) and died at 26 by suicide.
The perfect book to read at 'cocktail hour'. Frothy, catty, glamorous and absolutely soaked in alcohol.
I was drawn to this book about a teenage girl because it was published when I was a teenage boy & indeed the idiom brought back the 50s wonderfully: “ it’s a blast” “have a ball” “making out” “weenie” “that’s a drag” “out of it” - as well as some of the little details, like the new white luggage Courtney’s mother buys for their return to New York.
In my teens, I wouldn’t have liked Courtney, but I’d have been very attracted to her but she certainly would’ve preferred older men.
It's a booze soaked world swirling in cigarette smoke where parents are ineffectual, children are given unlimited spending money and New York seems to fall at their feet.
In other words, it's great fun.Reading this book I was continually mesmerized by the age of the author: 18.
She was one smart cookie who sadly killed herself at age 26 after subsequent literary disappointments.Although this is an enjoyable bon bon of a book, it hits on predictably dark themes: alcoholism, promiscuity, the vacuity of the trust fund life and most pedantic of all: bad parenting.
So not only did Pamela Moore write an incredible book, but she wrote an incredible, taboo, feminist book about growing up when she was only 18 years old and living in the socially conservative 1950’s.
That’s a pretty powerful act if you ask me, and you can be damn sure that Chocolates for Breakfast made the banned books list in about 0.5 seconds flat.
She wrote four other novels, though none received such high praise.Moore committed suicide in 1964 while working on her sixth book after a long struggle with depression which was not diagnosed or commonly treated at the time.
At the time it was scandalous with its teenaged characters drinking and carousing about unfettered by rules or morals or parents.The book itself was written by 18 year old Pamela Moore who shockingly ended her life at age 26.The characters, the plot, all reminded me of The Valley of the Dolls somehow.
I can see why it would have been such a scandalous book in the 50's what with the sexual promiscuity, the wanton drinking and the disregard for rules and morals.But, and this may be because I know the outcome of the author, the book seemed to focus a lot on the mental state and mental health of the characters while at the same time not really addressing those issues.

I got about 1/2 way through this book and had to stop because I was so bored.
I kept reading for as long as I did because of the biographical details of the author were fairly compelling (she wrote this at 18!
she killed herself shortly thereafter!)and I felt like I should cut her some slack.
Comparing this to The Dud Avocado is insulting to Dundy because there just isn't anything in the writing that compels me to keep reading, no style and no substance.Maybe I'll come back to this at some point or skip to the end and read more about the author but life is too short to finish books that bore you to death.
Allereerst: Ik ga dit boek nog een keer lezen en dan tellen hoeveel glazen alcohol de zwaar minderjarige Courtney nuttigt, een dergelijk spelletje heb ik niet meer gespeeld sinds ik bijhield hoevaak het woord 'kutje' voorkwam in de vertaling van Charlotte Roches Feuchtgebiete.Verder kwam ik eens in een artikel het woord 'borderlineporno' tegen - zo'n term die geen verdere uitleg behoeft en die honderd procent van toepassing is op Bonbons.
Knap gedaan dus van de piepjonge auteur.Het verhaal is verder inderdaad niet meer dan een zomer lang verwende kinderen en liters martini/whiskey/bourbon, maar verwachtte iemand echt iets anders van dit boek?
Chocolates for Breakfast by Pamela Moore is a book after my own heart and soul.
A story of the link between childhood and adulthood.
Not quite in one, but not quite part of the other.Chocolates for Breakfast stars a young woman named Courtney in this very dilemma.
At times, though, Janet is more of a burden than a relief.Her mother, being informed of Courtney's attitude and subconscious reaction to her dismal life at Scaisbrooke, gives Courtney a choice.
She ultimately is just trying to survive and play the part she believes she herself was born to play.This book was a phenomenal read.
Review originally published at http://witlesswitticisms.wordpress.co...Pamela Moore originally wrote Chocolates for Breakfast in 1957 (when she was only eighteen) and it was widely read and acclaimed for a number of years before going out of print and slipping from our collective consciousness.
Harper Perennial is reissuing it with a number of extras (like biographical notes that shed some very interesting light on Pamela Moore’s life and writing).Even without the extras, Chocolates for Breakfast is a great read.
Or in July, when it actually comes out.Chocolates for Breakfast by Pamela Moore comes out from Harper Perennial in July and I definitely recommend it.
What I especially liked about Chocolates for Breakfast is that the young author is clearly making her own choices to live her life the way she did.
I remember being 16, 17, 18 years old, long ago, and remember thinking I already knew everything about life.
When you feel jaded and cynical at a young age you lack perspective and consequently tend to use a short-sighted decision-making process.Ms. Moore shows some precocious insight in her writing so it's a pity that she didn't live long enough to mature and gain proper perspective on life.
This book is not great literature, but interesting given its time frame.
Unfortunately, seen in the light of current literature, the characters are paper thin, the plot plods from party to love nest to party, and the prose is, any way you look at it, that of an 1956 eighteen-year-old.But what is more interesting than the book itself is the story behind the book.
Pamela Moore's flight to France, the lovers she had, the revisions she made to the book for the French version, the unhappy marriage she suffered, and her tragic suicide at age 24.
That, to me, is the real story.
This easily became an all time favorite!
Pamela Moore was truly ahead of her time.
I thoroughly enjoyed the Foreword which sheds light on the republication of this book (thank goodness!) and a brief insight about the author and how this novel parallels parts of her actual life.
The story follows Courtney's life from age 15-17 as she moves from boarding school, to LA, and back to NYC.
Such a moving novel that I could not put down and in fact finished in one setting ❤️.
HIGHLY recommend if you are looking for an original story with grit and heartache that is poetically written.
This was quite a different novel for me.
It's a sad story, overall.
The author's story is also sad - Pamela Moore claimed fame with this rather scandalous novel (for it's time) at age 18, and went on to write several more novels.
Comparisons to Sylvia Plath, Sara Teasdale and other young women authors who were also mentally depressed have been made to Pamela Moore.
I'm glad I was able to read this novel - but I wouldn't recommend it for light or reading for pleasure.
This was not about Chocolate or eating it for breakfast.
You might think one would have an eating problem but no...many other addictions though.
I think the name of this book is very symbolic of addiction and waywardness and many more things this book was actually about.
Bad parenting and social peer pressure can be added to the mix.Courtney victim of divorce and being sent to elite boarding school, get's the raw end of the deal with being raised, growing up and just learning to live.
It's sad to see what it takes to pull herself out of her destructive living patterns.
I saw a review for this and it sounded intriguing.
And then, lo and behold, it was on the free table at work so I snatched it up.
I liked it.
It was an easy enough read.
But all I can think is that it was kind of Catcher in the Rye meets Bret Easton Ellis...
via Judy Blume?
It just kind of wandered around in the guise of a coming of age story.
I dunno.
I can't put my finger on exactly what I thought of this.
But, I do really enjoy reading books set in this time period for whatever reason.
I cannot believe Pamela Moore, the author of this novel, wrote this story at eighteen. She had decades of living vested within her than I imagined. Chocolates for Breakfast illustrated how money and status never protected one's life from the harsh realities faced (e.g. parental neglect, alcoholism, suicide).At times, the story read like a soap opera mixed with Peyton Place, but it never faltered from earning my attention. My word, I still cannot fathom an eighteen year old with the insight to write this novel. What had she witnessed in her life before its end? Highly recommended!
Okay. Reminded me of Breakfast at Tiffany's. The amazing thing is that it was written by an 18-yr-old. Amazing the insight she had! This book was out of print and was brought back. Coming of age story of Courtney, a rich, private school student with divorced, dysfunctional parents. The author killed herself at the age of 26.
An all around amazing novel! Even though it was published in the 1950s it is still incredibly relevant. Smart, sexy, and honest, this is one book I intend to read again and again. In finishing it, I feel almost as though I've lost a friend, but I enjoyed the journey so much that I would highly recommend it to everyone. This book needs to be read by all!
And we thought today's generation was in trouble! A great trip back in time (circa the 50s). A tale of decadence, self-indulgence, self-absorbence, youth gone wrong, old Hollywood, lots of alcohol, young sex, and tragedy. A mesh of all that is at the end, a very dry martini (a constant reference in the book). Chocolates for breakfast, indeed (metaphorically speaking, of course).
Similar to Valley of the Dolls, but the girls are younger and there is very little character growth. Risqué for its time but no longer shocking. Exactly the book you expect to be written by a privileged girl with writer parents who ends up taking her own life.
