https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60471.Coming_Home
Whatever that means.In essence, this is a book I love to read (and re-read and re-read and then read again some more) when I'm wishing I lived in Cornwall on a big rocky beach swathed with light and color and sound.
Oh, and I have a big house with bowls of flowers everywhere and I cook exciting things and my furniture is covered in faded chintz and I have lovely hunting dogs that like to be taken on walks over aforesaid beach, even though in real life I think dogs smell and slobber too much.
Belonging."I loved taking this wonderful journey with Judith Dunbar from the impressionable age of fourteen in 1935 straight through the years of World War II.
Judith learns so much about what it means to have a place in the world, a home to return to, loved ones to reunite with and hold close to the heart.
Rosamunde Pilcher takes us into World War II through the eyes of this blossoming young woman.
Even different places and homes take on a life of their own at times.
I read this when I am craving comfort and familiarity. Rosamunde Pilcher's books are like a hot bubblebath. You sink into the story and resurface a few hours later feeling refreshed.
She makes her settings and her people so real and warm that you want to belong there and to remain listening to the sea and watching the waves crash on a Cornwall beach.It is 1935 and we are introduced to Judith Dunbar, a fourteen year old about to embark on life at boarding school while her parents and little sister, Jess, are living a world away in Singapore.
Judith has her father’s sister, Aunt Louise, with whom she is to spend holidays, and makes friends with Loveday Carey-Lewis, who is to have a huge impact on her life and fortunes.Pilcher writes a very linear novel in Coming Home, taking Judith from 1935 England, when there are only whispers of war, and through the war years into 1945.
It follows 14-year old Judith in pre-WW II Britain for about 13 years -- through pre-war family disruptions, boarding school (where she meets a new friend with an interesting family and a wonderful country house), the war itself (as a WREN, which takes her to Ceylon), and back to post-war Britain to find missing family and sort out her life.
I loved every part of it -- the girl herself, her family and friends, the country house, the romances, the vicarious travel to Ceylon -- and to an era that will never come again.
This was one of the first Rosamunde Pilcher novels that I read and I have read it multiple times over again, as I have done with many of her books.
It is the story of war, friendship, loneliness and most of all it is a story of belonging and having a place to call home regardless of where that place actually is - a building, a town, a school...
it is your place, your home.
Pilcher's books always look like romance novels, and some do have a touch of romance included, but they are so much more than that.
3.5 StarsComing Home follows the life of Judith Dunbar beginning in 1936, when she is a fourteen year old school girl.
Born in Ceylon, Judith lives quietly with her mother Molly and her four year old sister Jess in a rented house in Cornwall, England.
Judith is left behind, at boarding school, and this is where her rather lonely life takes a turn for the better.
This is exactly what I enjoy, character driven historical fiction, set in England during the 1930s and 40s.
A lovely setting, fine writing and interesting times makes this 900 page novel well worth the effort.
When looking at the cover of this novel I had no idea that I, being male, would ever enjoy this story.
I sometimes consider myself a literary snob and was looking for something completely different to read.
I now rank this book right up there as one of the most absorbing and emotional reads I have come across in a long while.
I'm looking forward to the day I re-read this blessing of a novel and rejoin the colorful cast of characters who made me proud, laugh, and, embaressingly enough, at times brought tears to my eyes.
Coming Home covers the young life of Judith Dunbar. The book follows her from entering boarding school at about 14. Her mother and father have gone overseas with her father's job. Then WWII hits. Judith is left on her own, yet along the way, via her best friend at school, there are people who enter her life and become her second family. Nothing is rushed in this book, which is as it should be. I enjoyed the descriptions of the countryside and homes. A lovely British read that has me wanting endless cups of steaming tea, and toast.
The romance part in this novel was quite hideous and not interesting especially when it comes to the protagonist ( Judith just seems too much of a victim, I can't understand why a woman capable of caring for so much people would have such a hard time writing a damn letter to somebody she cares about), but the historical part of the novel, as well as all the sum of all life stories shared, somehow made up for it.
I've read this about six times, once out loud to my twelve-year-old daughter. Rosamunde Pilcher is always magic and this novel is her magnum opus. The epitome of British family sagas, of wartime in England, of family and love and friendship and boarding schools and English country manors. Basically everything I love. And, also, the ultimate in tea party descriptions, and for British food in general. More about my tea party obsessions here: http://suannelaqueurwrites.com/litera...
I love the vitality and complexity of Pilcher's characters, especially Judith Dunbar, the heroine of this story.
I mean, who doesn't want to walk through a garden painted by Pilcher's gorgeous and inviting words?"The path draws the eye, don't you think?
While I was reading this book, I thought of so many things I wanted to say and now I haven't the time.
Just go get a copy of this book and curl up with it, you won't regret it!!My heartfelt thanks to my friend, Sara, not only for introducing me to Rosamunde Pilcher, but for making this another memorable buddy read!
For the first third of the book or so, I felt it was moving too slow and was getting bored.
But then, I got adjusted to the pace and the style of things, and I started feeling relaxed and entranced by the good sense of the characters and the ever-present soothing cups of tea.
The story takes a fourteen-year-old British girl through her years at boarding school and through the years of World War II.
It was interesting to read about the experience of the Brits during the war and to think about how different our experience is during the current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
When Judith's life and care take a precipitous turn (no spoilers given here), Loveday's parents enlarge their embrace as time moves on and the parents Dunbar are unable to care for their daughter--World War II begins and Judith wonders if she will ever see her parents or sister again.
In telling the story of Judith Dunbar and her loved ones, Rosamunde Pilcher writes with warmth, wisdom, and clear-eyed insight about every family.
Love and life and death and history are sufficient to build a story.The publisher declared that "hardly anyone knows how to write" this sort of story anymore.
It is a tender, gentle and very real story of a young girl coming of age during WWII.
Ultimately she must take on the responsibility of a young sister who survived the brutal invasion of the Japanese while their parents didn't.
It is such a real life, with young people having to make grown up decisions and being very capable of doing so responsibly...
Much more mature and grown up societies than the one we live in today.Wonderful book.......
Pilcher ha sido todo un descubrimiento para mí, he disfrutado mucho con esta lectura.Desde el principio te sientes enganchada a los personajes, a la historia y a los paisajes.
"El regreso" es a veces una novela dura, pues narra cómo la IIGM puso patas arriba la vida de Judith, de los Dunbar y los Carey-Lewis.
Los Carey-Lewis son una familia maravillosa, al poco de empezar la historia ya tienes ganas de que te adopten ^^.
El amor se describe de manera sencilla y tranquila.Voy a investigar si este libro se llevó al cine, es una historia increíble.

I find Coming Home trashy yet really compelling.
I read it over and over when I'm sick, when I'm on a plane, when I feel terrible for whatever reason, and it's always escapist and comforting.
Mostly it's that I'm compelled to read anything about WWII Britain; since this is so long and so much happens, I'm compelled to read it over and over again.
At the same time I have some major problems with various business such as 1.
How could anyone be inured to crap like that, no matter what their cultural upbringing?
No one is a good enough writer to pull that off.
This book was just too slow, with lengthy descriptions of flowers in gardens and furniture in rooms that didn't add to the story. While the main storyline of Judith is a beautiful love story, Pilcher has tried to squeeze too many characters into the book, and it just comes away feeling crowded. It was worth reading once, but I don't think I'd invest the time to read it again.
The book neatly divides between pre- and post- World War II Cornwall, and the idea of “coming home” resonates in various ways throughout the novel.
Pilcher makes Judith Dunbar - only 14 years old when the book begins - the heroine and focal point of the story, but in some ways she is a very colourless character.
When Judith is 14, she becomes a boarder at St Ursula’s school in Penzance, Cornwall, and there she makes friends with the irrepressible Loveday Carey-Lewis.
Despite being orphaned (both figuratively and literally) in the novel, Judith becomes a sort of best friend and saviour to many of the characters.
I loved the second half however.
I did get little annoyed at how the men in this story speak to the women but it is probably typical for the late 30s and early 40s.
Still the women are strong in the 2 novels I have read by Pilcher.
I discovered Pilcher as a rec here on goodreads as being similar to Binchy and she is and it fills that void for me as I have read every Maeve Binchy book.
Anyway, I have a pile of Pilcher books and I will continue to read her.
I give this 5 stars knowing that lots of people will have no patience for this book and that is just fine.
But if you had to give me a list of things that make a book perfect for me this would be it.
Long, British, 1940s, family saga etc.
This gave me the same feeling I had reading L.M. Montgomery and Louisa May Alcott, it's so homey and familiar.
It also has some really great details about life on the home front during World War II.
Rationing, fuel shortages, blackouts etc.
I could have kept reading for several hundred more pages.
Another unputdownable novel by Rosamunde Pilcher, about the coming of age of a young girl spanning the years of WWII. Maybe the end was a tad too pat, but I won't complain. I just so enjoyed the book.
I'm sad that it's over. I read 1000 pages and wanted to read more. If that doesn't tell you how flat out wonderful a book this is, nothing will convince you.
The main story of this was good and well thought out. I did find myself getting bogged down by the details. I felt it was too long and could have been condensed a lot. But the characters were great, especially Judith.
A perfect big, fat book for sinking into during grey winter days.
The first two hundred pages didn't have a lot of drama, but somehow they felt completely absorbing and enjoyable anyway, and then the last 600 pages were hugely dramatic and I couldn't stop reading!
(I took 3 days to read the first 200 pages and 2 days to read the last 600 - which is definitely a sign.) The final emotional scene at the end of the book felt just a tiny bit flat to me after waiting for it so long...but that's a very small nitpick for a book that kept me completely absorbed and entertained over 800 pages.
A delightful book. Unfortunately ended.
I don't consider them to be indicative of any great literary quality (consider, for example, the number of times the phrase "a moveable feast" is used - and that's a phrase too noticeable to be repeated often); instead, what characterizes Coming Home is a vaguely familiar sort of humanity.
The rambling chapters of Judith’s childhood provide wonderful examples of pre-war life along with the delicate acknowledgement that these times will be cut short; the post-war pages have some real emotional strengths.
It’s partly because there’s a sense that accuracy and historical events don’t matter as much as the personal events.
Judith is taken in by the Carey-Lewis family when her Aunt Louise dies; four years later, when she's set to sail to Singapore to see her dad after 8 years and mom and sis after 4 years of separation, she decides not to--she'd rather stay with the friends she's made and suffer through the privation of war with them than be thought selfish of going off to the good life in Singapore.
But the war goes on--and, in the end, Singapore falls and her father dies in a POW camp and her mother on a ship sunk leaving Singapore.
Oh my god.
This took me a month because I kept rereading passages, slowing it down and really appreciating every word.
This is a magical book.
I was completely wrapped up in the story and in the fate of each of these characters, they felt so incredibly real to me.
It did include some of my favourite things on top of its being overall brilliant and gorgeously written, i.e. a boarding school and characters reading books I just can't wait to get back to after this (one of them read Rosamond Lehmann, a favourite of mine, and another mentioned Anthony Trollope).
