https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116356.Footfall
Maybe he'll be safe there, as the aliens, hurl down a big asteroid, others will fellow, hitting the Indian Ocean , a tremendous splash, occurs, a colossal tidal wave, forms, crushing the people living, near the coast, now dying there, by the sea, India disappears, other nations go dark, no lights, no humans left, the invaders land in Kansas, the local National Guard fights bravely, soon, the U.S.Army , intervenes but to no avail, these creatures from another world, have too much...
Footfall is an Independence Day (the movie) type book, about an alien invasion and a wide range of humans across the globe reacting to said invasion. I'm sure you've seen Independence Day and I hope you didn't like it because it sucked. but have you seen Mars Attacks? now that is a great alien invasion film. smart and hilarious. Footfall is much better than Independence Day but it is a far cry from Mars Attacks.the first thing you should know about Footfall is that the aliens in question who ar
Footfall is much better than Independence Day but it is a far cry from Mars Attacks.the first thing you should know about Footfall is that the aliens in question who are invading, sometimes slaughtering, and in general causing mass havoc across the earth look like baby elephants.
the second thing you should know about Footfall is that it features a bizarre and hilariously bad and hilariously awesome scene where some rural homespun types, a big city politician, some Soviet astronauts, and the baby elephant alien invaders screen and then discuss that classic film Deep Throat.
Footfall is a shining example of science fiction's general refusal to face up to the challenge of conceiving a plausible invasion by an extraterrestrial power without stacking the deck severely in humanity's favor through biology, psychology, or plain old stupidity.
For example, upon noticing that the alien mothership carries sixty-four smaller vessels, one of the writers proclaims that they must use a base-8 (octal) numerical system, which, in a universe where the contrivance of the authors wasn't pressing down firmly on the scales of probability, would be like trying to divine the human numerical system from one picture of assorted aircraft on the deck of the U.S.S. Nimitz.
A good alien invasion story with some fresh aspects to it.
The book is long and I felt a bit longer than it needed to be.
There were a couple of places where the politics, which seemed to me to be worn on the sleeves of the writers, seemed out of place in a story about "humanity" facing an invasion.
Probably many of the feelings expressed were accurate to the way humans would really be, but they certainly didn't show some of the characters in a good light.
Elephant-like aliens attack Earth. Plucky Earthlings fight back. It's actually not at all bad if you like that kind of thing.This book was described somewhere as "a rich tapestry". I recently read  99 Ways To Tell A Story , which has a witty page telling the story using the conventions of the Bayeux Tapestry, and I suddenly saw Footfall retold in the same way.I think it would work quite well. To start off with, in a tapestry you expect all the characters to be two-dimensional. What else would th
Elephant-like aliens attack Earth.
It's actually not at all bad if you like that kind of thing.This book was described somewhere as "a rich tapestry".
99 Ways To Tell A Story
, which has a witty page telling the story using the conventions of the Bayeux Tapestry, and I suddenly saw Footfall retold in the same way.I think it would work quite well.
To start off with, in a tapestry you expect all the characters to be two-dimensional.
And I would so like to see some of the episodes rerendered à la Bayeux with Latin subtitles.
Footfall is a fun alien invasion story, full of up-tempo optimism and enthusiastic good feeling for humanity, science fiction, and The Right Stuff. It's a happy, fast-paced beach read in the spirit of Independence Day.
This one was mostly fun (though I admit, I did start thinking about the physics of a space war).Footfall is a book about an alien invasion and earth's fight (mostly the fight of the US) against it.
That's one reason that I ended up only giving the book 3 stars instead of 4: the plotline related to the international cooperation with the Soviets more or less abruptly ended about halfway through.
For some reason, I kept thinking of the Harry Red character in this book as very similar to Tom Cullen in The Stand.
Footfall was everything I dislike about sci-fi condensed into one book: self-gratifying and self-absorbed writers writing themselves as heroes, ridiculous aliens, extreme nationalism, sexism up the whazoo, and a complete disregard for character development.
Some of these are explainable (though not justifiable) from a context-sensitive reading.
Indeed, maybe I wouldn't have hated this book if I'd read it in 1985.
But that does not make it enjoyable now-- nor does it cover the plethora of flaws that can only be explained by shoddy craftsmanship.
I read the entire book, yes.
Everything good about this book appears in other sci-fi, where it is done better.
At least someone just got into space.I wonder where that meteor over Russian recently in real life came from...Ok, the crap really hits the fan in part 2 chapter 11 around 5&1/2 hours...The audiobook chapters are 1 higher than the paper book because of the prologue.I don't know if alien baby elephants talking with a lisp are going to be effective in a movie version...Yes, there's an alien named 'Takpusseh'.Maybe they're trying to be like Stephen King's The Stand (1978) with all these characters?A problem with the audiobook: all alien names are pronounced with a lisp, making it hard to figure out who's talking.On the positive side, a lot of cool sf ideas are discussed in chapter 20 (Schemes) ('Project Thor', 'Project Orion'), from 3 sf writers based on ('Tukerized'?) Niven, Pournelle, and Heinlein.Well that spear chapter was unpleasant.FINISH:Not bad.
This is an excellent "invasion from outer space" book.
The kind of good, old fashioned slam-bang adventure that was very prevalent in SF at one time.One quirk of these elephantine invaders is: they will fight but if they surrender, they belong to the winning side permanently.
So they are confused when humans surrender--and then fight back.
They consider those humans to be dangerously "rogue", and kill them instead of conquering them.Also, one of the aliens is captured by our side--and becomes a part of a think-tank against his fellows.
And he remains on our side--in thier culture, once you yeild, you yeild totally.Interesting battles and ideas; lots of fun and excitement.
I still think this is the best alien-invasion story I've ever read.
Granted, it's hard to write a sensible invasion story, given thata) it's hard to think of a reason for rational aliens to invade, andb) if they did, they should win overwhelmingly.
spears.But it makes a great *story*, and N&P have given probably as reasonable a backstory as anyone could.
As an example of high-level page-turner storytelling, Footfall still rings my chimes.
"Orion will Rise" -- all right!Footfall is dragged down a bit by dated political background: the USSR is alive and well here, and is portrayed as considerably stronger and healthier than it actually was in 1985.
Footfall told a story closer to home, asking what if the aliens came to us at Earth, what would we really do, how would different groups of people react, and how would the aliens respond to the alien-ness of us?
Though it's familiar territory, Footfall really delves into the human aspect, extrapolating from hard science and politics to paint a very plausible scenario.
The alien names were a bit much to pronounce at first, but I got used to them, and came to cheer for some of the aliens as much as the humans.
), and I always have enjoyed both Niven solo and with Pournelle, so when it came time to grab a big fat book to take as hand luggage on a brief trip to southern France, thus seemed the ideal companion.
Unfortunately I was enjoying it too much and despite it being exactly 700 pages, the book ran out before the 4 day break did, not really the books fault I suppose.
In this day of wonderful, kind, helpful aliens or omnipotent, unstoppable, tree hugging, environmentalist aliens a nice old fashioned "invaders from outer space" story is kind of nice.
I like it.
Not only a good "yarn" (like the word???
okay, "a good story"...sigh) but also some nice insights into the way people think.
While I can't quite give a blanket recommendation to Larry Niven's works, this is one I really like.
So, prepare for the worst...and ready yourself for aliens who want to dominate the world.Although, I find it hard to believe aliens who resemble elephants as bad guys.
More catastrophe survivalist misogyny from Niven and Pournelle.
Maybe it's because I just recently read Lucifer's Hammer, or maybe I'm getting older, but I'm finding my earlier affection for Niven's work fading.
I'm sure there's a literary term for what the author's have done in Footfall and L.H., but I'm going to have to describe it- All of the characters we meet (and there are a lot) make the right decisions and are clearly superior to the common people who we don't ever really get to know.
Put another way- the people we meet are great, and everyone else is either an idiot or a monster.
Just good, old fashioned alien invasion, action, science. What else would you want for a good summer read!
1995 - The first and best Science Fiction I ever read.
2016 - I thought it was time for a revisit to one of the best books I'd ever read and the book that taught me 'big & busy' was nothing to fear when picking a book.
A word of note to readers: When 'Archangel Michael' is launched give yourself a large hunk of time to sit and let the momentum build to the end.
I want to give this three more stars for standing the test of time and making me want to skip work to read.
Perhaps the most "realistic" aliens invasion of earth novel I have ever read.
My second time around reading this, 15 years later, left me with nearly the same high level of delight as last time.And the importance of science fiction writers to the war effort?
Maybe less realistic, but still a lot of fun.Of course, aliens invading earth is really the perfect setup for what is a pro-military somewhat "conservative" world view.
Military capable space technology?
High environmental impact of human activity?
When the aliens come, they will be much harder on our biosphere.So while I reread this us vs.
I read this awhile back and remembered it as a fun if not very substantial read. It reads like a novelization of an epic disaster movie like Independence Day. The aliens look like elephants which is kind of goofy. Niven and Pournelle will never be mistaken for great literary writers, They hail from the pulp fiction side of sci-fi and their Libertarian views tend to be heavy-handed and often weight down their books. But ti was fun so I'll give it a cautious three stars.
This book contains approximately 300 pages of embarrassing misogynistic crap, sad cliches, and stupid characters that ruin what could have been a great 250 page alien invasion story. Lucifer's Hammer was the same BS. And that's a damn dirty shame because The Mote In God's Eye was an incredibly vibrant story, which spurred me to read more Niven/Pournelle books. Move on...nuthin to read here :[
"...and blood, amazingly red, hemoglobin for sure, like some madman had bombed a Red Cross blood bank."The metaphors, amazingly compared, similes for sure, like some hackmen had written a crappy genre book without really giving a shit.
They watch the rain fill in what used to a be a sea bed and Fox makes a brief speech about how he fought nuclear power and was a fool, because had he allowed science to progress then the humans might have been able to fight back against the invaders, and he wouldn't be watching all the fragile, perfectly-adapted creatures of Death Valley drowning.It's the kind of moment that could be preachy or overdone; it's essentially Larry Niven and his co-author Jerry Pournelle being almost didactic: they're hard-science guys who want people to be pro-scientific advances.
Worst. Aliens. Ever.But seriously, that's 5 reading days that I'm never going to get back. I'm sure some people loves this book, but it was just not for me.
They’re obsessively researched at a technical level, have workmanlike but compulsively readable prose, and wear their conservative-libertarian Cold War politics on their sleeves.That last bit sounds like a dig, but there’s no other way to put it; Footfall is set in a (then) near-future in which the Soviet Union is dominant in space technology because Those Darn Liberals got too much power the US, and the alien invasion—I hope this is not too much of a spoiler—is repelled, ultimately, by rejecting the appeasement tactics of the liberal elected governments and instead relying on the brilliant analysis of a team of conservative-libertarian military veteran science fiction authors.
When the unknown alien ship first approached Earth, the humans messages of welcome and peace were met with no answer.
The aliens attack the unprepared and outraged human welcoming delegation, and after an initial series of clear victories, the technologically superior aliens expected surrender to their herd master, and a subsequently peaceful coexistence as fellow citizens of earth.
So, by the time the aliens are ready to start negotiating, they become increasingly baffled by the outraged humans who are still fighting with no-holds barred ferocity, including Kamikaze bombings.
They don't write books like this anymore.Multitudes of characters, converging plotlines, cold war intrigues, and a good old fashioned, worldwide alien invasion story.
Not how I would picture aliens, and making something so strange and foreign resemble any known animal is going to imbue the characters with unwanted stereotypes.Like "Lucifer's Hammer", another story by the same creative team, this book is a bit slow to start (although I enjoyed most of the buildup, something too many modern tales lack).
The clever way the aliens have inherited their technology, are a younger race, and have more of the social structure of herd animals than humans.
The events have a kind of inevitability and logic that distinguishe the best of Niven's work (although, the downside of that is, they seem to occur in real time and one wishes more editorial shaping had been allowed to speed the book along).
This latter problem, and Niven's unconcern with how actual human beings think and feel (perhaps this is a fault of the genre), are the major stumbling blocks here, but somehow, despite it all, and despite the book's relative antiquity (published 1985), it holds up very well--at least for people who like this genre.
This is probably the best alien invasion book I have ever read.
This involves an alien ship that arrives in earth orbit and immediately starts a war with humanity, and they have far superior technology.
The ending is one of the best endings of any book I've ever read.
If you liked this try Mote in God's Eye which is another detailed exploration of an alien species by Niven and Pournelle, but it's a first contact where humans arrive at the alien's world instead.
When they bring their talents together the effect is fantastic and, in my opinion, very re-readable.Footfall is the story of alien invasion.
Before you say to yourself, "yeah, I saw that movie", let me tell you this: that movie (which ever one, you pick!) was probably based off this book or elements of it.
Niven/Pournelle are what I like to call an artist's artist, similar to Tom Waits and Nick Lowe.
With that in mind, I consider most Niven/Pournelle books to be the fully fleshed version of what ever story they wish to tell.
In this case it is alien invasion and they choose to tell every facet that particular story could possibly have.
Getting used to the alien language is difficult but sort of fun.The aliens morphology is silly but their instincts are interesting.The books is an answer to the question: "How can a race travel between stars without being peaceful?"Sagan might argue any such race must have survived cultural adolescence.They managed not to destroy themselves before reaching the space age.This can be done through cooperation and peace.But it could also be accomplished by an instinct to submit once defeated!With such an instinct, total war is avoided with peace not being necessary.Clever but scary stuff.
