https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6344097-the-stand
I have read The Stand twice and this volume faithfully follows the first 100 to 150 pages or so.
Being true to the original book does not necessarily mean that the transition is smooth, followable, etc.
I was joking with my wife (who has also read The Stand) that this is probably one of the last books you would want to be accompanied by visual aids.
As you can see by some of the photos I have included, this is definitely the case!Great art, true to story, well done adaptation - 5 stars all the way it and I am looking forward to checking out other volumes.
The timeline for each character and scene is timed almost flawlessly, there is nothing futile in the way Aguirre-Sacasa moves the story along, and there is quite a lot of depth even in individuals that aren't getting the panel time as much as it would usually require for a reader to get a grip of what someone is.But the beauty really comes of the way Aguirre-Sacasa is able to capture the essence of how something contagious and deadly becomes an outbreak by transmission.
After reading the uncut version of The Stand by the king last year and being totally blown away by it, I decided to seek out the graphic novels to see if they portrayed the overall feel of the original novel.
Flagg or the walkin’ dude stands out significantly looking truly evil and as far away from that Billy Ray Cyrus lookalike from the TV series as possible.
Fran’s giggles are there, although not when the superbug hits home and her mother still wants a good slap.
Larry’s home after everything goes Pete Tong and I want to listen to his song, I’ve seen the words that many times.
The Stand was my first Stephen King novel and reading the graphic novel sure brings me back. I hope I don't get the sniffles again this time around! Well done.
They did an amazing job with one of the greatest stories of the 20th century.
It can also be disturbingly gross, which fits the story.
The characters are there and the story shines off the page.
Whoever decided this would work in graphic novel format was a genius and thank you that we can read this story in a quick way and still get the story.
Does this replace the novel?
No. This is a great add on to the novel when you don't have 50 hours to read it.
Does anyone know if there is a graphic novel for IT?
Stephen King's stuff in graphic novel form is just a wicked good combination. Love, love, love the artwork in this, and I can't wait to read the rest in the series. The visuals are fantastic and the pace moves a lot quicker than the novel (for obvious reasons). Randall Flagg is such a creepy character, a villain who one day walks out of the night and into everyone's nightmares. I loved seeing him drawn in comic book form.
I knew that there would be a lot left out, and I had prepared myself to be disappointed in the way it was done, but obviously, I was far from disappointed, and actually loved it.
If they are depicted in a way that doesn't mesh with the characters I know, it could be very bad.
But, while they did look different than they do in my head (and in the 1994 mini-series adaptation), they represented their characters well.
:DI loved this, and am headed to read the second installment right now.
It is should be noted that I haven’t read the original novel and I aim to do when opportunity presents itself, so in order to gauge if this is a faithful adaptation of the source material, I rely on the various synopses available online.The story, as adapted and scripted by Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa introduces the characters and sets up the events that lead to the depopulation of the continental United States by “Captain Tricks”, a biological warfare agent that is a mutated strain of the human influenza virus.
The first five issues in Marvel's adaptation of Stephen King's famous novel The Stand, are contained within the first collection, Captain Trips.
Following the lives of a few select individuals who appear to be immune, King lays the groundwork for the ultimate battle between good and evil.Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa does a fine job adapting the source material.
It's been two years since I originally read it but I'm not really getting the feeling a whole lot is being left out.The characters match up pretty well with how I envisioned them, which is always a nice touch when moving from a novel to a more visual medium.
I can't believe how quickly images can get across a story that takes hundreds of pages in words.
O_oThe Stand is one of my favorite Kings so I have put off reading this comic series, but after devoting most of a year to all manner of Dark Tower everything, including the comics, I figured it was time.
Much like the mini-series, I have problems with the way some of the characters are drawn, but find others perfection.
Perfect: Frannie, Larry, Nick.
Not so great: The Walkin' Dude (his pants are supposed to be PEGGED for one!), Stu and Lloyd.Even with those small complaints I can't wait to continue.
Impressive adaptation that so far, is following King's epic narrative very closely.
The art is truly impressive, and I don't think I've ever seen the "Walkin' Dude" look so fierce (very cool).
It's been a fun, nostalgic ride re-entering the world of Captain Trips, visiting with Stu, and Franny, Nick and Larry (and Flagg of course) all over again.
Unlike many Constant Readers, The Stand has never been one of my favourite King novels, but I do recognize it as a staggering achievement in storytelling and am certain of its lasting cultural legacy.
It's been a delight to see this story re-imagined in graphic novel format.
I was wondering how this was going to be pulled off in just 5 volumes, being that this is a 1000+ page novel, but so far I’m impressed with the introduction to the story and some of the main characters.
Anyone reading The Stand this way will miss so much of what makes this such a Stephen King classic.Was the illustrator trying to draw Stephen King into some of the scenes?
Some of the random people in the crowds look an awful lot like SK.Rating this 4 stars for how well the introduction was pulled off in this format and how fun it was to read this way.
The art is a bad sample of a big trend right now: digitally painting photographs and pasting rendered figures onto the image. And that’s just how it looks—pasted. Glad this one was a library borrow.
The artwork in this is equal parts stunning and (where appropriate) absolutely gruesome.
This being my favourite Stephen King book, I was pretty excited to see it had been turned into a series of graphic novels.
One of my favourite bits is Larry Underwood on the phone concerning a friend who's been hospitalized, and the woman speaking to him is describing how everybody is sick and dying and nobody has answers.
Larry chalks it up to paranoia in a wide panel showing a crowded New York city street where nearly everyone is coughing into handkerchiefs.
I really can't praise the artwork enough.
I read this book in a couple hours.
This graphic novel talked about the first 200 some pages of the actual book, The Stand, which is the first 26 chapters I think.
Now, I don't usually like graphic novels (I used to) but I have been getting more into them.
Another thing is that I have parts of The Stand but had given up on it.
I am gonna trying reading it this summer.
Anyway this book is recommended for people who enjoy graphic novels, or have read the novel The Stand.
I don't think this book does much justice to the original story it was based on.
The cuts are sharp and jarring for those of us who've read the original novel and many of the better scenes from the book are brutally chopped to make it all into digestible chunks for the comic book format.
Unfortunately I also don't think this book does much justice to the comic book medium either.
Don't get me wrong the art style is great, even excellent but the story is nowhere nearly well displayed as it has been in other novel to comic book pieces I've seen.
Okay, let me get this out of the way real quick because it really has nothing to do with the content of the book: It is fucking retarded that The Stand comic adaptation is not presented in a way that makes it clear it's all part of the same story and what order the volumes go in.
One should not have to go on line to figure out the order to read a series of books that all tell a straight forward story.Okay, rant aside, this was okay but it didn't wow me.
La historia de Apocalipsis (La Danza de la Muerte) es una de mis favoritas de King, y también una de las más extensas y con más desarrollo de sus personajes. La buena idea de una adaptación a novela gráfica ya probó su validez con la serie de Dark Tower, y no podían dejar atrás este monstruo de historia. Creo que la calidad artística de la adaptación es buena, pero no se compara a aquella de Dark Tower. Sin embargo, me ha resultado agradable.
Awesome. Now I want to read the novel again.
This book accomplishes an almost impossible feat, translating the epic 'Stand' novel into comic form. Absolutely brilliant and keeps remarkably true to it's original.
I have to preface this a little in the hopes that it does some justice to just how (and why) I was so excited to discover that one of my all-time favorite books was to be retooled as a graphic novel.
It's That Book I've read so many times I can recite entire stretches of dialogue, recall dozens of word-for-word descriptions and have some of King's most gruesome scenes permanently burned into my brain.So it's a good thing that the first book in the graphic-novel re-imagining of "The Stand" delivers.
After reading the book (loved it) and watching the tv miniseries (which I found decent but lacking is so many ways), it was refreshing to read this version of the story and brings back all the details that I had read so long ago in the book that never made it to the television version.
I love that Randall Flagg looks like I had imagined him in my head.
(view spoiler)[This book also brought back so many scary feelings from how the government tried to cover up what they did with the superflu, how they spread fake news, and how they shut down any radio, newspaper or other media that tried to inform the public.
Taking a 1200 page novel and condensing into the medium felt like the task of a lunatic to me, so I am pleased to report that it works very well.
The GN hits all the high points I remember from the novel and I was very pleased with the depiction.So being a Stand dweeb, I had to get out my unabridged version of the book and see just how far we'd come with the first compilation of five issues.
Overall, if you are a fan of the book and of the graphic novel medium, this is great fun.


The Harriet Tubman-like character aside, which is just a typical King politically correct ploy caused by spending too much time in safely White Maine, the idea of a decimating viral plague presaging another round in the epic battle of good vs. evil is interesting for its depictions of the decline and collapse of American civilization, something so many on both ends of the political spectrum anticipate with either dread or giddiness. So, Boulder or Vegas?
3.5/5My first read of the year! I love Stephen King, and I've always wanted to read "The Stand." I don't currently own that book, but one of my good friends gave me this beautiful graphic novel for Christmas. I'm really intrigued by the story and the crazy world that it has set up. There were so many characters and at times it was overwhelming, but the story was just so engaging. I want to read the other 5 books to complete the story. And maybe I'll still pick up the novel!
Tremendo!!!Me ha fascinado, las ilustraciones son magistrales.Lo comencé a leer para darme valor de leer la novela completa y bastaron un par de páginas para engancharme totalmente.El único detalle que le encontré es que las letras eran demasiado pequeñas que me llegué a sentir casi ciega XD.Grande King <3
Se ha echo un increíble trabajo de arte en todo el cómic, Marvel le puse mucho empeño y todos los colaboradores han sabido cómo complementar gráficamente está primera entrega y han sabido que parte poner y resumir y argumentar la historia y la trama, aún así es totalmente entendible y digerible, ansío la segunda parte.
Possible one of my favourite books ever written. The vast array of character's POVs can get confusing, but that's the only flaw I found. It's scary, suspenseful, and just an amazing book.
