https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11346.Sula
Because each had discovered years before that they were neither white nor male, and that all freedom and triumph was forbidden to them, they had set about creating something else to be. 4 1/2 stars. I have known for some time that I haven't read enough Toni Morrison. Before Sula, I had only read Beloved, which is also a great book. Reading this, I can't understand what took me so long to pick up another.Toni Morrison's writing is frank and uncompromising. She creates characters who burn with an
She creates characters who burn with an inextinguishable fire, and she does it through a series of carefully-written moments; ugly, heartbreaking scenes that somehow capture a person, a time, a place or an injustice in full.Sula is, at times, a strange book; it is about an intense, complicated relationship between two black women - Sula and Nel - from the 1920s to the 1940s.
But it's essentially about Nel and Sula growing up - surrounded by racism, injustice and segregation - and becoming women, discovering their sexuality in very different ways, and living very different lives.
however, while it doesn't involve actual intercourse, her descriptions of sula and nel at twelve, wishbone thin and easy-assed, walking to the ice cream store through the gauntlet of men who are themselves passing the time sitting on stoops watching women walk by, through this valley of eyes chilled by the wind and heated by the embarrassment of appraising stares, knowing and not-knowing their effect, delighted and ashamed all at once, and despite the fact that it's totally gross to call a situation in which men in their twenties up through to elderly gentlemen are ogling twelve-year-old girls "hot," still, there's something here that worked on me the way no fifty shades of story of o has, and it comes from the perspective of the girls themselves, and the mysteries of what they have yet to experience:It was not really Edna Finch's ice cream that made them brave the stretch of those panther eyes.
Prior to their time in the limelight, the book reads like a collection of character studies, which provides backstory of family history that lays the foundation for the type of drastically different women Nel and Sula each grow up to be.
Only with Sula did that quality have free reign, but their friendship was so close, they themselves had difficulty distinguishing one's thoughts from the other's.As a grown woman, Nel is an accepted figure in the community, content with the status quo and the confines of a life as mother and wife.
Even their footsteps left a smell of smoke behind."- Toni Morrison, SulaThis is a captivating book about the friendship between two girls (Sula and Nel) with very different personalities.
What does love mean when you are a single black mother of three children, abandoned by your husband and living in a poor, black community?
And like any artist with no art form, she became dangerous."Although Morrison focuses mainly on the lives of black girls and women in her writing, she also spares a thought to black men.
all these new editions of morrison’s books have the same author photo on the back.
check it out:despite that weird author hand placement thing, i've been kinda seriously obsessing over all these pictures of morrison's huge lion's head, piercing eyes, and silver dreads...
it's gotten to the point where i've gotta stick duct tape over the author photo so that everytime i read some crazyass shit and my OCD flares up, i'm unable to flip to the back cover and snicker/mumble to a photograph and an empty room.
again with the hands.
This unerring writer has been the only one to get all 5 star reviews from me so far (for "Beloved," "The Bluest Eye," & this); all of her books have that same wondrous quality.
It is something so completely foreign to me, so delicious, & as bizarre, as, say Cindi Lauper's anthem "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun." What is it that men miss out on?After "Sula" I am now suddenly & utterly aware that there are certain circles (circular...
349. Sula, Toni MorrisonSula is a 1973 novel by Nobel Prize-winning author Toni Morrison, her second to be published after The Bluest Eye.عنوانها: سولا ؛ اثر: تونی موریسون؛ (نشر قله)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هشتم ماه سپتامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: سولا؛ اثر: تونی موریسون؛ مترجم: گلرخ سعیدنیا؛ ویراستار: فاطمه تیموری؛ تهران، نشر قله، 1387؛ در 226 ص؛ شابک: 9649204806؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مسولا، اثر موریسون، سرگذشت و زندگی و رمز و راز دوستی دو زن سیاه پوست است در اوهایو، زندگی «س
Sula, Toni MorrisonSula is a 1973 novel by Nobel Prize-winning author Toni Morrison, her second to be published after The Bluest Eye.عنوانها: سولا ؛ اثر: تونی موریسون؛ (نشر قله)؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هشتم ماه سپتامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: سولا؛ اثر: تونی موریسون؛ مترجم: گلرخ سعیدنیا؛ ویراستار: فاطمه تیموری؛ تهران، نشر قله، 1387؛ در 226 ص؛ شابک: 9649204806؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مسولا، اثر موریسون، سرگذشت و زندگی و رمز و راز دوستی دو زن سیاه پوست است در اوهایو، زندگی «سولا» و دوست عزیزش «نل»، از کودکی تا بلوغ، و از بلوغ تا مرگ (درگذشت).
رمان، جایزه کتاب ملی منتقدان را نیز کسب کرده است.
From this sense of foreboding out comes Sula.The excluded community confined up in the hills outside a small Ohio town is made, through centuries of social conditioning, to see themselves as different and separate from the white people.
“It was a fine cry - loud and long - but it had no bottom and it had no top, just circles and circles of sorrow.”When she returns home after a long absence Sula is transformed into an unintelligible mass of thoughts and actions her people find difficult to square: It's like a white girl in black skin.
And how it does a moving job of showing how all the odds are stacked against a black woman living in the USA in the first half of the 20th century – “ because each had discovered years before they were neither white nor male and that all freedom and triumph was forbidden them they set about something else to be." I could say it’s a strange mix of poetic myth and grubby realism with perhaps an absence of narrative drive, of compelling storytelling.
Toni Morrison is the bee's knees, the cat's pajamas, the flea's eyebrows, the canary's tusks, the eel's ankle, the snake's hip, and the mutt's nuts.
Sula, her second novel (published in 1973), tells the story of two girls who grow up in the 1920s in a Black hillside community called the Bottom in the small town of Medallion, Ohio.Nel Wright, as her name implies, does everything right, including get married to a nice Black man and raise children; Sula Peace, who grew up with a non-traditional household overseen by an eccentric, one-legged grandmother, is a rebel with a slightly demonic streak.
But the scenes Morrison does provide - including a sequence in which the girls are being assessed by the town’s men, and one in which they’re being accosted by white boys (boy does Sula ever have a powerful way to escape this situation) - are stunning.
I always thought of Toni Morrison as one of those writers that your mother reads. Y'know, somewhere in the realms of Danielle Steel. How wrong was I eh? For something so short, the breadth of time and story is remarkable. I loved the dichotomous friendship of Nel and Sula and its eventual result. This novel is surprisingly disgusting as well, like Bret Easton Ellis disturbing. I like twisted tales though and I definitely like Morrison. More like this please!
She had no center, no speck around which to grow. I can't start to explain this book or the feeling I get each time a new chapter (numbered according to years) gives me the anxious expectation similar to unwrapping a piece of chocolate from the box of assortments - you never know what you'll get. I can't accurately explain why this fluidity of language, this mixture of elegant vernacular, this exhilarating and encompassing flow of words forms trails down my spine and envelops me into a warm coc
I can't start to explain this book or the feeling I get each time a new chapter (numbered according to years) gives me the anxious expectation similar to unwrapping a piece of chocolate from the box of assortments - you never know what you'll get.
There, in the center of that silence was not eternity but the death of time and a loneliness so profound the word itself had no meaning.
This is the fourth novel of my Morrison journey I started a couple of years ago.
Sula is very nearly a horror novel.
Toni Morrison might cringe to think anyone would consider her work in the same breath as horror fiction, but there are quite a few disturbing scenes, ones that I will not spoil or even allude to in this review.
Beloved, the novel for which she won the Nobel, will be my next read from her.Morrison narrates her own book, and does a fantastic job.
It is a novel I wish I had read sooner.
Epic in scope and destructively sorrowful, Sula is must-read material for fans of arresting literary fiction.Final Judgment: We started at the Bottom now we're here.
This includes her grandmother Eva - an elegant woman who lost a leg in mysterious circumstances; her mother Hannah - a free-spirit who exudes sex appeal and beds almost every man she meets; a disturbed alcoholic renter; and Eva's other children - Plum and Eva Jr. Some members of the household are lost in various tragic circumstances that are difficult to comprehend and which probably affect Sula deeply.Nel and Sula accidentally cause the death of a young boy, which they keep secret.
Then Sula leaves town and Nel marries a local boy, has children, and becomes a respected member of the community.
At such moments in the text I felt myself in the circle around the fire at the telling, and was pushed to search my own feeling about Sula, Nel and other characters rather than accept narrative guidance uncritically.One aspect of the story that was very illuminating to me, was a marriage made for what seemed an appalling reasons; a man's desire to affirm his masculinity in defiance of the company that is refusing to hire black workers for a local infrastructure project.
Bloom does not think we should rewrite the canon with new ethnic writers just because there aren't any.
He DOES think an ethnic writer is important and should be acknowledged if they are good, but a lot of them are not.
A lot of them simply write about ethnic scenarios and nothing else, and this is a very limited scope indeed.Morrison has expressly said that her goal is to create a black canon.
The fact that Morrison ONLY writes about blacks and oppression limits her writing even more.
I read Toni Morrison in high school (?) but I clearly need to go back and read everything. It's so clear to me now, how many writers are trying to be Toni. Every word matters, every character is flawed and human, and this is a five-star read. And this is my last book for the 2018 reading challenge from The Reading Women - under the category of Nobel Prize Winner.
Χαιρομαι τελικα που της εδωσα μια ευκαιρια διοτι ειναι εκπληκτικη συγγραφεας.Το πρωτο μισο της ιστοριας ηταν εξαιρετικο.Ξεκιναει με την ιστορια των γονιων των κεντρικων ηρωιδων,μαλλον μονο των μητερων τους, και μας δειχνει πολυ ομορφα τα ηθη,εθιμα και τους τροπους με τους οποιους επιβιωναν οι μαυρες γυναικες που ηταν άτυχες διοτι δεν ηταν ουτε ασπρες αλλα ουτε και αντρες.
Μου αρεσε πολυ ο ποιητικος λογος της συγγραφεας που σκιαγραφει τοσο ερεθιστικα τα παντα μεσα στο βιβλιο και σε τραβαει απο τα μαλλια μεσα στις σελιδες του.
Η παιδικη φιλια των κοριτσιων ειναι ζηλευτη,δυο σωματα μια ψυχη.Το δευτερο και τελευταιο μισο με εκανε να αντιπαθησω παρα πολυ την Sula η οποιο φυλακισμενη μεσα στην ψευτικη αισθηση ελευθεριας που ενιωθε πληγωνε τους παντες γυρω της.
I received this book for free through a complimentary Quarterly Literary Box. After hearing much about her, I have finally read a book by Toni Morrison. I really enjoyed this book. The way Morrison writes is so beautiful. She definitely has a way with words. The story itself was interesting. Sula and Nel together were so interesting. I don’t think I’ve ever seen a female friendship quite like that before. Sula had this ethereal quality about her that was really captivating.
The community itself was above attacking people, even if they saw them as evil, that's why Sula is tolerated.
Sula is viewed as evil because she rejects family life and the morals that the community relies on.
Morrison's poetic writing style and metaphors, makes me swoon every time I read it.I would recommend this book to everyone, because it honestly portrays the feelings of black life.
It manages to discuss racism, feelings of inadequacy, post traumatic stress disorder and how a community can be a living organism.
It reminds everyone who reads it, that black people have a unique and important cultural experience.
What a captivating book. Can't get over it.
“It was a fine cry - loud and long - but it had no bottom and it had no top, just circles and circles of sorrow.”  My entire literary education has been filled with vague references to Toni Morrison - and yet despite years and years of knowing her name, knowing she was brilliant and hearing so, so much about the beauty of her novels I never picked up one of her books until now. Sula is a beautiful book. Toni Morrison understands the hearts of people, seems to be able to perceive the souls of hu
My entire literary education has been filled with vague references to Toni Morrison - and yet despite years and years of knowing her name, knowing she was brilliant and hearing so, so much about the beauty of her novels I never picked up one of her books until now.
Sula is a beautiful book.
I loved the ambiguity of this book, and how clear it was made that people aren't all good or bad, mean and nice - and that maybe we need a little both of both good and bad.
“Lonely, ain't it?Yes, but my lonely is mine.
Now your lonely is somebody else's.
I must also comment on Toni Morrison's writing, because it is incredible beautiful.
I disliked Sula.Sula the book was great; a bit dry at points, but - of course - very well written, very well rendered by Toni Morrison.
Shadrack plays a huge part in major events in the novel, but because there are only two distinct points when we get a look inside his head - the beginning and the ending - his effects are very subtle.Sula the character infuriated me.
Nel was a good other half on account of Sula's unbelievable rashness; Nel would be there to counter and minimize the damage.
Instead, they are flawed people doing the best they can in their circumstances.The title character, Sula, is a piece of work, an anti-hero in the existential mode.
Sula, Morrison tells us, is an artist without an art form, someone who doesn’t care to verify herself.
For Morrison to make her the center of the novel is pretty brave considering American readers expect likeable protagonists.
I like Sula.
She loves paradoxes; my favorite being Sula’s hell is a life unchanging, while Nel’s hell is change itself.
What is that dirtball that Nel sees in her sadness and depression?Mostly, I like it because it’s a story of friendship.
Quick re-read for Max' bookclub Uncovered.
Because each had discovered years before that they were neither white nor male, and that all freedom and triumph was forbidden to them, they had set about creating something else to be.Toni Morrison sets everything on fire in order to make you see.
I distinctly remember feeling depressed and disheartened by the premise put forth by the novel that in order for a woman to be truly free, she had to behave like Sula--whose behavior I found quirky at best and reprehensible at worst.
I guess in some ways that's a truth about life, that none of us are completely free, only as free as we can be, but having it described to me in black-and-white in such a naked way made me feel alternately angry and despairing.As for the behavior that I refer to as "reprehensible," I feel strongly that there are certain things that, no matter what, you just don't do to the women you love.
The story focuses mostly on two young women, Nel Wright and Sula Peace, fast friends since there were twelve years old.
Sula misses her pal, and years later she comes home to see the person she thinks of as "the closest thing to both an other and a self." But something shocking is about to happen which will test their friendship to its very limit.I think this is the first time I've ever complained about a novel being too short.
I wanted to learn more about the friendship between Sula and Nel (view spoiler)[I think Sula's betrayal would have been all the more outrageous if we had more of their relationship to go on) (hide spoiler)].
The book lays open the stark choices that women had for most of the 20th century, between staid, upright housewife and woman of the world.
I still don’t know how to discuss the book without giving away too much.
Let me just say that Sula follows the relationship of two African-American girls — the polar opposites, Nel and Sula — in an Ohio river town from the 1920s into 1940.Unlike a lot of “serious literature” (I’m talking about you, Ulysses, Moby-Dick, The Waste Land, and Beloved (Sorry, Ms. Morrison)), Sula proves easy to devour and follow — and unforgettable nonetheless.
