https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10865206-the-willpower-instinct
it also gets tired with use.- the prefrontal cortext is your "willpower" organ -- it helps you do the harder thing among different choices- meditation sends blood to the prefrontal cortext and makes it stronger- 3 aspects of willpower goals: I will, I won't, I want (big goal)- we cave to impulses when we're distracted, stressed and tired (the muscle is not effective)- our natural impulses: fight or flight.
Notice how it actually feels to actually do the thing you think you want to do.
Often not that great.- try to create a dopamine effect for things you want to do (e.g. listen to music while vacuuming)- Beware "what the hell" effect.
I thought this was going to be another "do-what-I-did" type self-help books.
It uses the latest information from neuroscience to explain what exactly your brain goes through during a thinking or decision-making process and how to use that process to your advantage to increase your sense of self-control.
The book says at the very beginning that it offers NO EASY TRICKS to help with willpower.
For example, as little as 5 minutes of exercise can boost willpower.
Or just slowing down your breathing for just ONE MINUTE can also help your self-control.
It's range however covered a wide range of compulsions, and it could be utilized by anyone who wants to give up or change a behaviour.My enjoyment of the book was greatly enhanced by my sister reading it with me.
We followed the author's suggestion to read only one chapter a week, the better to mull over and practise what we had read as we went along.
I don't think I made clear the fact that I have read several books that have revolutionized my life.
Kelly McGonigal, however, provides concise, research-supported strategies supported on how to achieve goals - ranging from eating healthier to smoking less to staying faithful to your spouse.
She gives a quality mixture of anecdotes, analysis, and applications to ensure that readers walk away with the tools to alter their habits for the better.I most loved this book for its emphasis on self-compassion.
While McGonigal shares tons of cool tricks from more basic and neuroscience-oriented scientific studies to improve willpower, her consistent push toward loving oneself elevated the depth and meaningfulness of The Willpower Instinct.
Thank you, Kelly McGonigal, for writing a psychology book that slays.
На сегодняшний день словосочетание "сила воли" в научной психологии вообще стараются не использовать, заменяя его чем-нибудь вроде "произвольной саморегуляции", "устойчивости мотивации", "факторов, влияющих на борьбу и выбор мотивов", "помехоустойчивости" и т.п.
Собственно, в духе "сборной солянки" написана и данная книга...Когда мне приходится слышать от людей, обратившихся ко мне, как к психологу, с запросом: "А помогите мне развить (укрепить) силу воли" - я тут же вспоминаю один из рассказов Зощенко.
Данная книга - очень качественная подборка подобных "демотиваторов", помогающих лучше понять то, как НА САМОМ ДЕЛЕ мы достигаем то, к чему стремимся.
1. Willpower is centered in a specific region of the brain (within the prefrontal cortex).
There are specific things you can do to increase your heart rate variability if you need a quick willpower boost.
Your brain's dopamine system (the short-term reward center) is the root of most willpower problems because, for survival reasons, you are hard wired to prefer an immediate reward in front of you, like a burger, over a long term reward, like good heart health.
You can get around this by delaying the short term reward for 10 minutes, and then using that time to compare the 2 competing rewards objectively, without interference from your brain's powerful short-term reward system.4.
In terms of the order of the chapters, there are a few fairly essential subjects--chapter 6 on self-compassion and healthy pessimism and chapter 9 on acceptance of difficult feelings, I believe--that I think would be of more value in an earlier part of the book, if the reader takes the approach which the author recommends, which is to pick a goal or 'willpower challenge,' read one chapter per week, and gradually work on that challenge.On the other hand, because her chapter summaries and short description of exercises are so short and well written, you can easily ignore her advice, read the book quickly, and return to those summaries and exercises once a week--perhaps even re-ordering them.An issue is that, as the author says, basically willpower is tiring.
McGonigal brings together the newest insights about self-control from psychology, economics, neuroscience and medicine to build willpower.
the willpower instinct - anything that puts a stress on your mind or body can sabotage self-control but too much willpower is stressful3.
self-control is like a muscle - it gets tired from use but regular exercise makes it stronger4.
how feeling bad leads to giving in - self-compassion is a far better strategy than beating ourselves up7.
final thoughts - the aha momentEach chapter makes use of fascinating paradoxes to dispel common misconceptions about self-control.
I thought I had promised myself: No more self-help books about procrastination.
Unfortunately, when it comes to books, I have no willpower!
haha!
Fortunately, this book is totally different from all those other worthless books I've read.
The book starts out with very basic advice, eat better, get better sleep, get some exercise and start meditating.
I actually took a few pages of notes in my journal, which is an indication of how much I was inspired by the book.
I will definitely be re-reading it soon.

هذا الكتاب يجب أن يقرأه الجميع فقد يكون سببا في تغيير حياتك. إنه ليس كتابا من كتب ا التنمية البشرية التي لا تعتمد على أي أدلة بل على علوم مزيفة، وكل ما فيه مستند لبحوث علمية رصينة. الكتاب عملي ومقسم لتسعة فصول تمثل تسعة أسابيع وتعطيك الكاتبة تمارينا عملية لكل أسبوع.القراءة كانت شيقة وخفيف انصح بقراءته بشدة
เปนหนังสือทีควรคาแกการหนีบไวขางๆ หนังสือฮาวทูเปนอยางยิง เพราะในขณะทีหนังสือฮาวทูมักจะชอบพูดในสิงที ‘รูนะ แตทำไมได’ หนังสือเลมนีจะบอกเราวา ทำไมเราถึงบังคับตัวเองใหทำตามเปาหมายทีวางไวไมไดสักที และจะแนะนำวิธีแกปัญหา ‘รูนะ แตทำไมได’ แบบคราวๆ ให (ตองคราวๆ เพราะสุดทายมันกไมมีสูตรสำเรจหรือกระสุนเงินทีจะแกปัญหาใหทุกคนไดนะนะครับ)ซึงเปนคำแนะนำทีอานแลวไมเลียน เพราะผูเขียนไมไดใหคำแนะนำบนฐานความคิดวาทุกคนจะตองมีพลังบวกเออลน และเอาแตพูดเรือง Passion อะไรทำนองนัน แตคำแนะนำทังหมดจะอิงอยูบนพืนฐานการทำงานของรางกา
เป็นหนังสือที่ควรค่าแก่การหนีบไว้ข้างๆ หนังสือฮาวทูเป็นอย่างยิ่ง เพราะในขณะที่หนังสือฮาวทูมักจะชอบพูดในสิ่งที่ ‘รู้นะ แต่ทำไม่ได้’ หนังสือเล่มนี้จะบอกเราว่า ทำไมเราถึงบังคับตัวเองให้ทำตามเป้าหมายที่วางไว้ไม่ได้สักที และจะแนะนำวิธีแก้ปัญหา ‘รู้นะ แต่ทำไม่ได้’ แบบคร่าวๆ ให้ (ต้องคร่าวๆ เพราะสุดท้ายมันก็ไม่มีสูตรสำเร็จหรือกระสุนเงินที่จะแก้ปัญหาให้ทุกคนได้น่ะนะครับ)ซึ่งเป็นคำแนะนำที่อ่านแล้วไม่เลี่ยน เพราะผู้เขียนไม่ได้ให้คำแนะนำบนฐานความคิดว่าทุกคนจะต้องมีพลังบวกเอ่อล้น และเอาแต่พูดเรื่อง Passion อะไรทำนองนั้น แต่คำแนะนำทั้งหมดจะอิงอยู่บนพื้นฐานการทำงานของร่างกายและสมอง และเมื่อเข้าใจแล้วว่าสมองกับร่างกายทำงานอย่างไร จากนั้นเราจึงค่อยตั้งเป้าหมาย และออกแบบวิธีการที่เหมาะสมในการใช้ Willpower ตามศักยภาพของเราในขณะนั้น ไม่ใช่แค่เชียร์อัพให้คิดบวก แล้วไปตะบี้ตะบันหา Passion มาเป็นเชื้อเพลิงเพียงอย่างเดียว (ซึ่งโดยมากมักจะล้มเหลว)แนวคิดหนึ่งของ Willpower คือมันเป็นสิ่งที่มีอยู่จำกัดและใช้แล้วหมดไป การเติม Willpower (อาจจะด้วย Passion หรือน้ำตาล) มันอาจจะได้ผลในระยะสั้นเหมือนได้ยาแรง แต่นานวันเข้าร่างกายและสมองจะเริ่มดื้อ ประสิทธิผลของยาจะเริ่มน้อยลงเรื่อยๆสิ่งสำคัญจึงไม่ใช่แค่การ ‘เติม’ เพียงอย่างเดียว แต่เราต้องเลือกเรื่องที่เราจะใช้ Willpower ให้เหมาะสม พยายามรักษาระดับ Willpower ในระหว่างวันของตัวเองเอาไว้ (ยินดีด้วยครับ! การนอนเป็นวิธีหนึ่งในนั้น) และพร้อมๆ กันนั้นก็พยายามฝึกควบคุมตัวเองไปทีละขั้นแบบไม่รีบร้อน เพื่อขยายถัง Willpower ของตัวเองให้ใหญ่ขึ้นเรื่อยๆ อย่างมั่นคง มิใช่ทำตัวแบบนักวิ่งมือใหม่ที่ไม่เคยลงสนามมาก่อน แต่ประกาศกร้าวผ่าน New Year’s Resolution ว่าเดี๋ยวจะวิ่งมาราธอนทุกวัน
This book looks at willpower from a scientific point of view and how it evolved with our brains.
It shows you ways of strengthening your willpower.
It also shows you how your brain plays tricks on you to make you do things you don't necessarily want to do.
If you cannot complete a diet, or quite smoking or stop drinking, or cannot find your willpower, this book is for you.
It looks how dopamine effects us and how it is used by todays marketers!
I think you will find this true once you scientifically understand how it effects our brains.
Sprinkled throughout her discussions are “Under the Microscope” and “Willpower Experiment” features of this book which provide many personalized opportunities for gaining self-awareness and experimenting with new strategies to help you address your own willpower challenges—be it over-eating, over-drinking, over-spending, over-thinking, over-indulging, over-Facebooking, under-doing, or perhaps even over-reading at red lights.
Reading this book provides the insight you need to understand—and more importantly, have compassion for—your personal challenges, along with the techniques, tools, and perspective makeovers you need to gain more of that seemingly elusive self-control.
Это привело к тому, что теперь не спешу читать подобные книги.
Не спешу, да потому, что их авторы как правило пишут о том, что да и как нужно делать, и в лучшем случае вдохновляют читателя на мотивационном уровне.А потом, после прочтения книги читатель сталкивается с обыденной реальностью, в которой жил раньше.
Она включила в книгу множество психологических исследований и очень доступно раскрыла почему так тяжело человеку "воевать" с самим собой.
А ещё важнее, что благодаря выводам со всё тех же исследований вы теперь можете понять как достичь поистине великих результатом в противоборстве с собой и как избежать тех ловушек в которые мы постоянно с вами попадаем.
در زمینه اراده، به غیر از کتابهای زردی که در بازار موجود است، ۳ کتاب مهم تالیف شده که حرفهایی را برای گفتن دارند:1. Willpower: Rediscovering the Greatest Human Strength by Baumeister, Roy F.2. The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do in Life and Business by Duhigg, Charles 3. The Willpower Instinct: How Self-Control Works, Why It Matters, and What You Can Do to Get More of It (Hardcover) by Kelly McGonigalدر سیر مطالعاتی که در خصوص اراده داشتم هر سه کتاب را مطالعه کردم.دو کتاب اول به ابعاد مختلف
The Willpower Instinct: How Self-Control Works, Why It Matters, and What You Can Do to Get More of It (Hardcover) by Kelly McGonigalدر سیر مطالعاتی که در خصوص اراده داشتم هر سه کتاب را مطالعه کردم.دو کتاب اول به ابعاد مختلف اراده اشاره می‌کنند اما راه‌حل‌های زیادی برای تقویت اراده اشاره نشده است.
اما کتاب:The Willpower Instinctانصافا یک سر و گردن از بقیه بالاتر است.هر فصل از کتاب به جنبه‌ای متفاوت از اراده و تقویت آن اشاره می‌کند و در انتهای هر فصل جمع‌بندی مطالب همان فصل و تمرین‌هایی برای تقویت اراده ذکر می‌شود.پیشنهاد می‌کنم اگر می‌خواهید با جوانب مختلف اراده و تقویت آن آشنا شوید حتما این کتاب را مطالعه کنید.
Very insightful and interesting content. Decided to listen to the audio book which normally I don't find very easy to focus on but with this one I didn't have any problems. Although I was already familiar with some of the concepts mentioned here still learned a lot especially on understanding how one can strengthen will power. Definitely check out this book if you're interested to find out why our mind craves so many things that are unhealthy in the long run.
MEH.................................. ehhhhhh1.5I know I have willpower . I completed this book ..REPETITIVE!Endless annoying footnotes ... I feel it might be good middle age child .. But it did not contain any useful tips or information . McGonigal repeats her accomplishments so many times ! Which had no relevance to this book !I laughed to myself several times .. ...
Ok...please ignore the most embarrassing cover of this edition. Not at all as cheesy as it sounds. McGonigal is funny, but packs some serious insights. If you're a long time WP challenged (but hate to admit you need help), get a copy. Don't tell anybody, but do experiment as the book says! Who knows - you may really help yourself!
Meh. I enjoyed the science most but the majority of this information seemed intuitive to me. Still, I can see how this could be helpful to those whom need a boost in the willpower department. I was looking for a little more as I begin an exercise program as a New Year's resolution. Fortunately (and a little surprisingly), my willpower and desire to succeed has thus far been strong.
I read it back to back after The Power of Habit, and it reinforced and backed up most of the important lessons.Takeaways: * Willpower is a limited, muscle-like resource (I postponed all tough things except one) * Train with small tasks (I'm flossing teeth and keeping a daily diary) * Meditate and exercise to boost willpower (requires some willpower capital first) * Willpower works better with little variation.
If you start doing things, do it as consistently as possible (I'm flossing and keeping a diary at exactly the same moment in the day) * Avoid temptation makes you more likely to fail.
At the beginning, I was a little concerned by the early mention of mindfulness.
I am on board with the idea of mindfulness, but I wasn't interested in reading another book about it.
I liked what the author had to say about mindfulness but also appreciated the other "tricks" you can try to give yourself more willpower.
I liked that bit since CBT never helped me, and the tips in that chapter have already helped me deal with my habit of worrying.
That's important since the book is science heavy.
It was nice to read a self-help book containing claims backed up by science.
این کتاب را به همراه کتاب Willpower: Rediscovering the Greatest Human Strengthبخوانید، ترکیب خوبی هستند برای فهم ناتوانی هایمان و درک بهتر برای پذیرش شان
Практичные советы про силу воли - как я ее теряю, как поддерживаю. Рекомендовал бы книгу для всех, отдохнуть от сложного чтения, "набраться силы воли" :)
And frankly, neither did the author of The Willpower Instinct (Kelly McGonigal), and I for one, think that's a very good thing.McGonigle does a decent job of revitalizing this decidedly uncool and very unfashionable topic, due in part to the fact that she kept that shit simple!
But negative self talk (and the feelings and beliefs that accompany it) can actually keep people trapped in cycles of maladaptive, out of control behavior.
I have to admit that even though I know that "going on a journey" is the right way to change one's self, I still get frustrated with the idea that there's no quick fix.
Ok, we've established that I like quick fixes, let's move on.My biggest beef with the Willpower Instinct is that I never got the sense that there was a single consistent message about How We Work and What Works and How to Change and all that stuff.
I think it's indisputable that the ultimate measure of the worth of a self-help book is...
The author begins with a self-congratulatory account of how this inspired a multitude of continuing education students at Stanford to solve every conceivable problem in their lives, how it had been just the most popular course ever ever, and how every technique had been thoroughly beta-tested and debugged by legions of human guinea pigs so that the reader could embark on the venture with utter certitude of being imbued with all those numinous and wonderful "I-will," "I-won't" and "I-want" powers they'd hitherto somehow utterly failed to acquire -- and certainly, conditioning someone to expect a benefit may help her to derive one, so let's give Dr. McGonical a pass on the rhapsodic self-promotion -- but the content just didn't deliver.
Studies show that taking time for relaxation every day can protect your health while also increasing your willpower reserve.p. 137 The most effective stress-relief strategies are exercising or playing sports, praying or attending a religious service, reading, listening to music, spending time with friends or family, getting a massage, going outside for a walk, meditating or doing yoga, and spending time with a creative hobby.
(The least effective strategies are gambling, shopping, smoking, drinking, eating, playing video games, surfing the Internet, and watching TV or movies for more than 2 hours.)p.
219 Feel what you feel, but don’t believe everything you think.
You don’t have to automatically accept the content of the thought.
"Tomorrow I'll have a salad but not today" is a bold-faced lie.
If Today self doesn't want to eat a salad, then tomorrow self won't either, because they are both THE SAME FRIGGIN' PERSON.
Realize that a burger today means a burger tomorrow.
Eat somewhere else.We will use the past (I've been good today, I deserve a treat) and we will use the future (I'll work out tomorrow) and we will use the present (I'm too depressed, I need to cheer up) in order to have our way.
وقتها كانت النصائح تتزايد على الكتاب الشهير "قوة العادات" لتشارلز دويج .
عندئذ، بدأت بقراءة المراجعات في موقع goodreads عندها لفت انتباهي تعليق يصف بأن الكتاب، اقصد قوه العادات ، جيد ولكنه كتاب يندرج تحت صنف خبرات الكاتب وتجاربه الشخصيه .
وبدأ يقترح كتاب " غريزة قوة الاراده " كبديل مبني على أسس علميه اكاديميه متينه .
عندها بدأت بقراءه هذا الكتاب الجميل مع الدعاء لصاحب هذا التعليق.
استطيع بعد قراءة الكتاب باعاده تسميته الى:" User Guide of Brain's Willpower ""دليل المستخدم لقوة الاراده في المخ"كتاب إستطاع تجريدي من غرور يزعم بأننا نتحكم ب جميع اجزاء عقولنا..
