https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183266.Mozart
Just had to give this little book four stars, it is so delightfully charming. Was the Maestro's life REALLY like this?We'll never know, but Davenport's book is captivating.Like biting into a French mille feuilles pastry! Yummy.
While I really enjoyed this book, I have a sneaking suspicion that it played fast and loose with Mozart's life.
The writer, in an effort, I suppose, to make it more true-to-life and perhaps more enjoyable reading, wrote this in kind of a novel-ish way, embellishing all kinds of situations with characters' grimaces, groans, exclamations, pacing back and forth, etc.
I think this isn't really my kind of history, maybe.
I like to know that my histories are reliable.That said, Davenport does certainly create a fully realized Mozart, and as this is my first biography of the master, I did learn quite a bit about the life and works of one of my favorite composers.
Maybe that alone made it worth reading.
Wow. What an incredible book.
that she wrote this in 1932 and was a person familiar with Europe, the languages, the places of Mozart's life, makes it even better.
This book should be required reading for every student of Music.
It is all-encompassing and leaves the reader with such a picture of this genius' life, and his music, even if there are certainly minor liberties taken with dialogue.
The depth with which she describes the development of Mozart's musical talent and production is incredible.
There are so many lessons to glean from his life story...it will take awhile to process it all.
I listened to his music while reading...magical.
In her foreword, Marcia Davenport tells us: "I can only say that I offer neither a romance nor a text-book. I have tried to tell the truth." Did Mozart actually think, when meeting the infamous Casanova, "...was it possible? Could...those blazing eyes belong to anyone else? Never, impossible!" Well, why not? It's hard to believe that within his own lifetime, Mozart found little fame and even less fortune. He took a beating from the world, and it seems that ultimately, sadly, he just gave up. But this is a beautiful read and one of my favorite biographies.
This book is a very good biography. I like it because it does not romanticize the rumors or imagined stories told about Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Instead, it reports facts about his life and tells a more "black and white" story about how he grew and lived his life. I do not mean to say it ignores facts about infidelity or problems with his sanity, it just reports his life and actions.This is a great biography.
I'm not sure that this is actually the specific biography that I read, but the description of the book leads me to believe that it could be. I no longer have the book. I read a biography of Mozart after being infatuated with the movie Amadeus, curious how much of the movie was true to his real life.
Excellent, alive, vibrant, informative. She extrapolates on Mozart's characters and reactions and situations a bit. Very engaging.
Readers for pleasure will not be troubled by this, and readers for duty will know, like all Mozart students, whence each quotation comes.
Furthermore, the bibliography covers all sources from which quotations have been made." It is very obvious that Davenport, from a professional, musical family background, knows her subject thoroughly from in-depth study of Mozart's letters and extant documents, but also that she's spent significant time in the places where Mozart lived and produced his greatest works.
Her detailed accounts & descriptions of 18th century Europe are nicely balanced with details of Mozart's professional and personal life.
More a docudrama than true biography, but enjoyable... for a tragedy!
.
I used this original hardcover edition flea market acquisition as my research for my own book, Mozart/A Variation on a Life. It's an amazingly well researched book, with Ms. Davenport having access to actual correspondence between Mozart and the members of his family. It is a truly heartbreaking story as well with many horrible details about his life that I was unaware of.
Davenport wrote this biography in 1931 when the style was to dramatize rather than simply supply information.
So we have descriptions of Mozart smirking here, stamping his foot impatiently there, as well as several imagined conversations that might have taken place with his friends and family.Like the movie, Amadeus, which I enjoyed, it creates a life like image of a historical figure so we can see him for ourselves.
I have read Mozart's letters so I have already experienced his "voice." That aversion aside, Davenport does supply us with information that gives us a greater familiarity with arguably the greatest composer whoever lived.
this book is in my top ten of all time.
don't know where that other info comes from.it's challenging at times- marcia davenport often deviates into a foreign tongue without explanation, for instance.
but never before have i felt like i was walking, if not in the shoes of, right behind the character in question.
davenport describes as mozart and his father walk down the road - in part because she had been to every site and seen for herself firsthand what mozart had seen.this book is the only thing that has had me question whether there is a higher authority - although, admittedly, never for very long.
I thought it would be interesting to learn about good ole Mozart.
This is a well written biography-- Mozart had an interesting life.
I really did not like his father when all was said and done.
If he were to live in today's world, his father would be a classic "Hollywood" parent.
His father was so controlling and very manipulative.
Mozart was eccentric to the core-- but he had a sad life.
It just makes me think that sometimes, maybe the trade-off between having a "normal" life and lots of talent is just not worth it!!
Like others, I enjoyed this biography, though I see that she perpetuated, perhaps codified, many of the myths of Mozart that are now disputed.
Nevertheless, Marcia Davenport gives a clear and lively portrait of Mozart's comings and goings-- it's a good place to start to understand the life of such a remarkable genius.
Rather than the blow by blow of where he went and what he did, however,I wish Marcia Davenport had used the many letters Mozart and his family wrote to try to analyze Mozart's creative process.
Now I'll go try another version, to see what more I can glean.
Highly entertaining and informative. I always enjoy a good historical read to put composers lives in perspective. Good enough that I listened to it a second time through! I would not have enjoyed living in that time period! He left his mother by herself in a strange city all alone...no thank you. Dark, dank, dirty. bleh Travel arrangements and communication are so slow! I would hate having to rely on the generosity of someone else to determine how much I would get paid for a job after its done. That's terrible! How can you support a family like that?
I have been a huge fan of Mozart's music for many years, but this is the first biography of his that I've read, so I don't have others to compare it to.
However, I liked it, the author's style is pleasant and fat-free and his life was interesting and seemed well researched.
It's kind of revolting that he had so little appreciation during his life, I thought things had been a little bit better for him in terms of renown if not financially, but such is life.
I did not like his father though.
All in all an interesting account and a good book.
This is the definitive book on his life to read. His genius is so rare that even the best musicians and composers can't compare themselves to him. His life was truly gifted and unusual and some of the music he himself wrote he looked down on because it kept him from writing what he dreamed of . . . opera.He died at 35 but left lots of the world's best music.
I like music and listen to classic music.The book is written more detail about his life.I changed his image through the book.I recommend people who like classic music. You will like more Mozart.
This book was a good look at the life of Mozart. The dialog bothered me a little. The author seems to make up some of it. I went away thinking what a pity it was that such an amazing composer struggled so hard to make a living.
I haven't read this for decades, but recall it as lively with a Mozartian wit. She wrote something like "in the meantime it had been discovered that Wolfgang could play the violin." Surely there are bigger and more scholarly books, but this is more than good enough for openers.
I both enjoyed this book and found it hard to get through at the same time. The writing style is a bit odd to me, because at times it reads like it wants to be historical fiction and then others it reads like a biography.
One of the best books I have ever enjoyed! Well-written, and not boring like biographies can be....
This is an essential book in order to understand the mind and times of Mozart. Even if you don't care for classical music, you will find this book interesting.
Davenport's clear and honest portrait of Mozart debunks many of the myths surrounding the composer's life and death, many of them hyped in the film 'Amadeus'.
I liked this bio of Mozart. Marcia Davenport does a good job. Lots of actual letters. More about the man, not so much about the actual music.
Recommended for anyone who wants to learn more about Mozart's life and music, and not just what was depicted in Amadeus (hint: Salieri did not kill Mozart).
Excellent biography
This was a great little read.
Started out good, getting annoyed with the author's dorky writing. Had high hopes for some culture here, but it's going to be a trial to finish. . .
