https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/798784.Living_Free
This is my second time around for this book, yes it's a slow read but I still enjoyed it, not as much as the first book I must admit. It holds a fascination for me because it reminds me of my childhood and the fact that Joy so loved her connection with these animals. That alone is worth the read. The photos are not professional, however they are so personal, and cannot be duplicated by anyone who does not have a close affection with an animal that they love.
Written with love and a great understanding of the big cats, the author tells the story of a special relationship with Elsa, a lion who she knows from her time taking care of her.
love reading about Elsa and her cubs don't get me wrong but Im not sure whether it's Joys writing techniques or something else that it wasn't a book I couldn't put down.
In fact it's taken me longer than I've spend reading any other books to read these two.
It is a lovely story but a bit of a slow read for me.
I will continue and read Forever Free and hopefully it will be more enjoyable if not sad as it will be the last of Elsa story I'd I'm correct xx
Read twice. Once was my grandmother's copy. The second time was a BookCrossing copy. The book always reminds me of my grandmother.
I honestly did not think I would enjoy this book as much as I did.
This came from a pair of naturalists similar to David Attenborough who were bringing new information to the world on animal behavior.
This a day by day journal in the life of a wild released lioness raising her cubs.
I suggest this book to anyone who loves animals, and enjoys nonfiction stories about how they live.
Even though it is outdated (from the 60s) I found the love the human caretakers had for their lioness to be very compelling, and I wish the story had a happier ending.
Excellent. Exciting. Full of drama. Full of life. Recommend it highly.
She has the interaction with George and Joy Adamson 19s who raised her from a cub in a wild environment preserve and when they thought Elsa was ready they successfully moved her to a natural wild habitat completely miles away from their camp and watch her for a short time to see if she would survive and find a mate.
Plus, in the meantime Joy had found out that a Lioness teats only hung down when she is filled with milk so Elsa must have nursed the cubs just before coming out and greeting the Adamson 18s.
The second book in Joy Adamson's "Free Trilogy" (preceded by her most famous novel, "Born Free"; followed by "Forever Free"), "Living Free" picks up where "Born Free" left off, with the newly-freed lioness Elsa expecting her first cubs, who will be born in the wild.
Together, Elsa and her cubs provide the Adamsons with a rare privilege: a glimpse at the first year in the life of a wild lion.
In the book Living free” by Joy Adamson, a lioness and her cubs are documented as they interact with Joy. It is a captivating novel, and one that I enjoy more than most. I read this book because normally, I read a good amount of fiction novels and not a lot of non fiction. I also read this because of all of the good reviews it has. The characters are quite humorous, as I’m guessing they are in real life.  It is mainly about a lioness raising her cubs, and the day to day life in africa. The setti
In the book Living free” by Joy Adamson, a lioness and her cubs are documented as they interact with Joy. It is a captivating novel, and one that I enjoy more than most.
I read this book because normally, I read a good amount of fiction novels and not a lot of non fiction.
It was an amazing book, and had some really good stories that were funny, sad, or nerve wrenching.
In the end, the cubs grew up strong and began to stop hanging around Joy and the camp.
It is, in conclusion, and amazing book that I will read again!
This is an interesting book of Joy who lives in the bush in Africa with her husband George and they raised a lioness there then it went off and mated and brought the cubs back to their camp for a year.
I received this book from my dad 50 years ago and for some unknown reason had not read it until now.
I am ecstatic to have finally read it.
I have said to myself several times I was going to read it and never did.
A life in the wild for a lion is fraught with dangers.
Living Free is Part Two of the story and tells of the birth of Elsa's cubs and follows the first year of their lives.
Another wonderful tale of this magnificent lioness that is absolutely touching.
The true story of Elsa's life and the life of her cubs in by far one of the most fascinating stories of wildlife and nature that I have ever read.
How amazing must it have been to have had such an up close and personal relationship with a lioness and her family in the African bush?!
A truly astonishing story that will always remain with me.
Amazing story, but I wouldn't say she's a good writer. Very choppy, not enough flow. It completely relies on content and the inspirational true tale of her lioness friend. She just doesn't add much quirk, fun or humour when it could so easily be done. Gerald Durrel is still king in the field of nature/wildlife writing. I'd give it a lower rating...but I love the story too much. It is an amazing thing to read about.
Amazing account of a Lioness living in two worlds and the woman who loved and guided her. Elsa was allowed to live her life as she was born to, free in the heart of the wilderness. She was able to raise a family of her own and able to share it,for the brief time she had, with her adoptive family the Adamsons.
Although a bit repetitive in places (how many times can you read about meat being dragged here and there?) this book is in some ways more interesting than the original Born Free: what do you do if you're a lioness who's friends with people but have a trio of wild cubs? On the whole Elsa managed pretty well...
I first read this book when I was in high school in the 1970's and fell in love with both the books (sequals are Living Free and Forever Free) and the movie. It is a touching story where sometimes humans have to interfere with nature and the consequences that it may bring.
I read this as a teen in the late 1970s. I loved wild animals and frequently watched Mutual Of Omahas Wild Kingdom (life before cable TV or 24/7 TV)as a kid. It goes without saying that I was very moved by the recent release youtube.com had on Christian the Lion.
The true story of Elsa and the Adamsom family, heart warming, part 2 now with her cubs and how the Adamsom family have to trap the cubs and take them to a safe place to live as there mother Elsa had died.
Good read. I didn't like it as much as Born Free-it doesn't flow as well and feels more like a chronicling of events. But I liked it well enough to hopefully find the next book in the series and read it soon.
Picks up where first book leaves off, great read.
It's a great story and the best part...? It's true! I really fell in love with Elsa and her story.
I would like to get the whole series :)
isbn,original
Old Children's Book. Liked it as a kid, but haven't read it in years.
I want to read these book
