https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211809.Gladiator
Gladiator is the story of Hugo Danner.
For example, Hugo kills a bully at school with his superhuman strength, branding him an outsider for the rest of his life.Over the course of the book, Hugo goes from relationship to relationship, works in a circus, fights in a war, all the while looking for a place to belong.
Hugo being an outsider reminded me a lot of the way The Hulk and the X-Men are treated.
In fact, Hugo's story seems like the template for a lot of later superhero characters.I'd recommend this to any comic book or Doc Savage fan interested in looking at the ancestor of their heroes.
A friend of mine reviewed this saying it was progenitor of Superman & Doc Savage. Dan's review is here:http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...I found it for free on Gutenberg.orgThis is a story of angst, a coming of age story. An experiment, Hugo Danner is as strong as the Hulk & quite intelligent with only his conscience as a guide. As Dan mentions in his review, I can see the early seeds of almost every super hero in this book. It's the mother of them all. A must-read.
I'm like a man made out of iron instead of meat.""That's it, Hugo.
Instead I found a complex and moving exploration of humanity, of war, of failure, of the hatred and fear of the strange, of youth and desire.
He saw German eyes turned mutely on the same heap of rags that moved pitifully over the snow, leaving a red wake, dragging a bloody thing behind.
Hugo went out and killed the heap of rags, with a revolver that cracked until the groans stopped in a low moan.
Hugo looked over there for a moment and smiled.
in fact, a lot of it feels much like the plot of the recent Superman movie, Man of Steel.Hugo's various adventures lead him to the conclusion that most people are pathetic, no matter their origin or station in life.
He attempts to atone for his failings, including accidental homicide, but finds it impossible to measure up to the standards he slowly formulates over the course of the novel.In the hands of a better writer, this would be genuinely powerful stuff, but even here you can feel the electricity of these ideas.The ending is a trope we've seen a thousand times since, but this is the earliest I've encountered it in so stark a form.
I first heard of Gladiator when it was mentioned as the inspiration to Superman.
Gladiator is not very long and reads rather fast.
The story revolves around him trying to fit in with different people and circumstances - just wanting acceptance and love from his fellow man.
His great gift is more of a curse as he struggles to find a use for this power within him.
I enjoyed it, thought it was a great science fiction story for its time, which hasn't lost its relevance in our world today.P.S. On a totally different note, I truly believe that in the right hands this could make awesome movie!
Despite all this, Hugo continued until his untimely death his strive to rise above the constrictions of established society and to be accepted for his unique gifts, which is the overall theme of the story.In all honesty, Hugo Danner is one of the most relatable characters to me.
As a result, I have a tendency to feel useless and empty inside, like Hugo Danner did.
If you are curious about social psychological questions raised about society's acceptance and rejection of individuals, then this is the book for you.
He even tries his hand at influencing politics in Washington, D.C. using his strength to scare politicians into doing the right thing, but like all idealists, politics finally disillusions him.Hugo never seems to find himself, and feels he's cursed to live apart from humanity, who fear and hate him for his unusual abilities.
I kept expecting, since I've heard this referred to as an influence to superheroes and Doc Savage, that Hugo would turn to crime-fighting, but that never happens.Although dated by the writing style and by social values of it's day, the book is still a fast read and surprisingly thoughtful.
Like many more modern "super heroes" Hugo Danner's superhuman strength and durability was the result of a scientific experiment--an intentional one in his case.Gladiator then explores the practical and moral issues Hugo deals with during his thirty years of life from circa 1890 to 1920.
Wylie grounds his hero in contemporary society and history, but focuses on the collision between a man like Hugo with normal people.The angst which superheroes have only recently discovered was Danner's from the beginning.
Better written than many books by Wylie's more famous contemporaries.
This is a great book, way ahead of its time.
It is a lot deeper than people may think from the storyline.
My dad recomended this book to me when I was a teenager.
He had read it in High School in the 50's.
I in turn recomended it to my friends who all loved it.
It covers a lot (historically) of the early 20th century.
War, college football, steel mills, Coney Islands & Mayan Excavations.
Many of the topic's that it covers are pertenant today, such as bullying.
I have read a lot of books and this is one of the best.
Definitely a product of it's time, but a fascinating story. You can really tell how this started the trend of super hero stories.
Ironically it's pretty much the origin used in Ang Lee's "Hulk."What happens after that is much different than the Man of Steel's comics, though in another irony it is a lot like 2013's "Man of Steel" in its preoccupation for how this superbeing would be ill-received by humanity, who would mostly hate and fear him for what he can do.
I'm sure the sex and violence would be pretty shocking for 1930 but not so much today.
The sex is more than the average comic book movie but the violence is mostly pretty tame by modern standards.
I've been meaning to read Gladiator for years, since it is something which I consider "geek homework" (subcategory "further reading") - most anyone who has delved into the genesis of American superhero concepts knows how the creators of Superman were in no small part influenced by a pulpy novel about a super-strong, nigh-invulnerable young man named Hugo Danner.
Gladiator hasn't been revered through the years in the same way as the Tarzan or Conan or even Doc Savage stories, and the reason why is pretty simple - it's not terribly well-written and it's not a particularly memorable story (the exceptional passages perhaps being the accounts of superhuman Hugo fighting in the trenches of World War I).
But virtually every time he tries to pull a Superman and save the day, the public is disbelieving to belligerent, causing many hurt feelings in Hugo.Trying to find his way in the world, Hugo goes off to university.
And some of these situations makes you feel true sorrow for Hugo, other times the ending of these phases lay squarely on his own powerful shoulders.Coming full circle by the end, Hugo goes very far both physically and philosophically to find the answers to his existence.
It’s true super power was not what Wylie intended, but in infiltrating the collective consciousness of two gawky boys he helped set the stage for the birth of the greatest hero of them all.Gladiator meet Superman.
Like Hugo, Doc Savage was the product of an experiment by his father, although in Doc Savage’s case the experiment was not a pre-natal one.
And like Captain America, Hugo went to war and used his abilities to fight the enemy.But the most significant difference is that Hugo is an outcast because of his power.
Doc Savage, Superman and Captain America were all revered and hailed as heroes.
Spider-Man, while not as powerful as Hugo, is feared by those he tries to protect and feels like an outcast.
Hugo Danner has all the "classic" Superman powers: fast, strong, invulnerable, and able to leap tall buildings in a single bound.
Danner as a child growing up strong in rural farmland with parents that try to hide his powers?
That being said, it's mostly about how Danner is unhappy that he has these powers, that he has to hide them, and how they make his life complicated.
The dialog is a lot of Danner saying "Yep" or "I'm kinda strong" but it's not terrible, just a little dated, like most pulp fiction magazines.For a super-powered Bildungsroman, I've read a lot worse.
"Gladiator" by Philip Wylie is thought to be the book from which Superman was derived.
Hugo Danner is the strongest man on earth.
The result is a bullet-proof, super strong, super fast baby boy.
Aside from similarities in abilities between Hugo and Superman, the stories are very different.
"Gladiator" is the story of a man blessed with super abilities, and cursed because he has them.
As he goes through life, he always must try to hide just how strong and fast he is.
If the legacy of "Gladiator" is the Superman comics, then that alone would make it noteworthy.
I knew that Superman took some elements from Doc Savage but it stole even more liberally from this, however i also saw elements of Spider-Man and many other superhero stories, there's even a little Teen Wolf too.So its a superhero story, or rather THE superhero story, i can't stress how bizarre this is to read as being from 1930 its essentially inventing the superhero genre but its also a deconstruction of the superhero.
A really fascinating read for for any fans (or enemy's) of the Superhero genre.
I really liked this book.If your looking for an easy read with some superman smashing it up with vil
Ever wondered where Superman came from?There's no way anybody will ever manage to convince me Siegel and Shuster never read this book and directly copy many of it's concepts.I'm not saying that was a bad thing, as it did give us Superman, but if you ever want to know who Superman's daddy really was... this is the book you have to read.
This is the precursor to Superman. Hugo Danner is strong, smart, and incredibly arrogant. He's also a self-interested bastard. I really liked this, and though I read it a couple of years ago I still think of it from time to time.I'm interested in any book that covers superheros and super-powered individuals through prose, and this is one of, if not the first.
If I could, I'd give it 3 1/2 stars., lots of fun ideas. I was expecting a more rollicking adventure. This was a rather depressing exploration of what a superman would actually experience. Pretty good read.
-Rara avis, más en su tiempo, pero de interés en ciertos aspectos hoy.-Género.
Ciencia ficción.Lo que nos cuenta.
En el libro Gladiator, el superhombre (publicación original: Gladiator, 1930) conocemos a Hugo Danner, un superhombre que vive en un pequeño pueblo norteamericano a finales del siglo XIX.
Según crece, tiene que evitar hacer gala de sus habilidades porque su entorno suele reaccionar de forma adversa.
Cuando va a la universidad, descubrirá un mundo nuevo pero con otros retos.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
white men and their fantasies are truly fucking wild.
There are, no doubt, similarities in the characters, but strong-men narratives have been a staple of World Literature since Gilgamesh, so I don't put much stock in any claim of direct influence, especially as Feeley again suggests that Wylie only sold some 2,500 copies of the book before 1949, when it was reissued as an Avon paperback.What Wylie's book is, though, is a serious contemplation on man in an age of modernity, and while it stumbles along its almost episodic narrative to its inevitable angst-ridden and explosively symbolic conclusion, it does raise some considerable questions about human impulse in an unprecedented age of technological advancement.
For Feeley's breakdown of the book's origins and his studied refutation of previous claims to Wylie's influence on Superman:Feeley, Gregory.
He thus sees for himself the destruction and futility of war, turning what he thought would be not only fun and useful into a retched, soul-crushing experience.These negative reactions to his powers continue after the end of the war, showing that many people fear great power more than they value great responsibility, a likely real-life reaction.The final section of the book looks at Hugo's relationship with a sympathetic scientist who eventually brings up the question of eugenics.
Worth the read, as it is the first story about an invincible super-strong man (forgetting about old mythologies for a minute).
Starts very nicely but loses some steam mid-way, when this early super-hero, Hugo, becomes an adult.
What follows is a somewhat erratic journey with little purpose.
True, the man accumulates experiences (pearl fisherman, war hero, between jobs back home) but it all feels futile as he is after all invincible and cannot really follow the hero’s journey, so dear to Joseph Campbell.
Overall there is little substance to this text, except for the “scientific” making of this extraordinary man and the related father-son relationship, which was the most remarkable part.
Cualquier fan de Superman que se precie debería tener en su biblioteca particular un pequeño hueco e
This story is actually preSciFI science fiction. It is a strange mix of science fiction super hero and the dispair and hopless/hopefulness of the post Great War era. As a forerunner it has much to commend it but its execution and the strange mixture don't quite measure up. A straight distopian setting would have worked better than the strange moodset of the shattered illusions of the period. It is worth a read and a place in literary history but it will never be a classic such as Hugo, Wells or Dumas.
this book was really interesting in the context of when it was written.
The original was printed in the early 20th century, and this story brings up the idea of eugenics and even hints at Hitler's idea of Uber mensch.I picked up this book when a colleague suggested it as a source for the DC Superman character.
this story made me appreciate Superman a little more by delving into the issues of being superior to all of humanity--and not being met with parades and joy wherever he goes.
this was an interesting read, and it might be good for a literature class!
What a find! This book, written in 1930, is the 'mother' of the superhero genre. It's also far more than the pulp adventure it may appear, with a well-thought out and prescient plot that sees the protagonist struggling to come to terms with his superpowers. Raced through it and thoroughly enjoyed it. A definite keeper.PS. This is a Blackmask Online reprint edition, and the editing/transcription is woeful in places. But hey, so what?
