https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76978.The_Secret_of_the_Old_Mill
The Secret of the Od Mill is a pivotal Hardy Boys mystery where we are introduced to their friend (and my son's favourite of the friends of the Hardys) Tony Prito and his boat the Napoli - but more importantly, it is the episode when they receive the infamous Sleuth as a gift from their father Fenton.
This boat plays a large part in this story (and in many, many more!) of how the boys break up a counterfeit ring.
With a mix of brio and brilliance, the boys take us breathlessly from clue to clue as they unmask the gang.
A great Hardy Boys book!
Fenton Hardy is hard at work on a top secret case.
When Frank and Joe go to pick him up from the train station, their friend Chet is passed a counterfeit bill.
What is their father working on?
And what is happening at the old mill outside of town?While the big picture of the plot may be obvious to adults early on, I remember enjoying this one as a kid, and I got caught up in the action again.
It does help that the details still need to be filled in and there is plenty of action along the way to the climax.
The Hardy Boys try and figure out a mystery that they cannot gain access to. Not as good as Nancy Drew, but still a good read.
Cos, while all the other girls played with dolls and dreamed of an early marriage, I used to spend endless hours reading Hardy Boys mysteries.
The Clue of the Screeching Owl (Hardy Boys who else) was the first real book that was presented to me at a special family event by my Dad. My older cousin who in those days was quite into taming me to be a perfect obedient wife, was a bit jealous when he took the book my dad had gifted on my special day, but smiled well with what he had wrote.
One of my girl cousins was so well girly but she liked my Hardy Boys book (the one i lent her) better than her nancy Drew one and our affection knew no bounds.
The Hardy Boys may have been the first reading experience where a fellow school friend turned me on to it.
Kidding!But really, I remember going to my friend's house who was a couple of doors away from me, and he had the whole collection of Hardy Boys.
And like Fantomas, it was remarkable that so much evil can be done right in the bright sunlight or next door to your house!
I once read an article about how the Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys series were written.
Unsurprisingly, given the sheer number of books in each series, they weren't all written by one person -- "Carolyn Keene" and "Franklin W.
Dixon" were pseudonyms for a variety of authors.
They'd start off with an outline that was given to them and then fill in the rest of the story themselves.
Well, whoever wrote this one didn't take any pains to stick to the two books in the series that preceded it.
He completely changed Chet's character from a Nervous Nellie to a big prankster.
BOOK 68: Mid-20th Century North American Crime Readathon - Round 2Hook=3 stars: The Hardy Boys question the mystery their father might be addressing as they look for their dad's return via a train.
(A place that has a mill, true, but that's about it.)Summary: Our Boys have to outplay and outlast a hand-full of villains amid 2 surprisingly adult plots.
I read many of these as a young reader and I don't remember, first, that the Hardy Boys start the series in their late teens and, second, that these novels are actually pretty good!
If you haven't read a Hardy Boy book recently, try one again.
Wow, this was possibly the most boring Hardy Boys book I've read thus far. It had some exciting moments but other than small highlights it dragged. This one is nothing compared to the previous book, "The Tower Treasure", which had more mystery and more suspense. A real drag.
This book was much more better, this one was one I could understand better. Hands down the Hardy Boys Series is better than the Nancy Drew.
Did not realize how cheesy the Hardy Boys book were until I listened to them on audiobook as an adult.
Great book for kids that want to read mystery stories.Or if they want to be in the police,FBI,or even coast guard.
My kids (4 and 5) are going bonkers for mysteries these days and I was desperate to find an audio book available from the library.
I thought to myself - when I was a kid I liked one of these Hardy Boys books.
I think there were a couple "girls" that were slender and packed a really good picnic (cake and lemonade included!).
I think we'll try another - my kids will probably insist.
Oh, another bonus, my kids had a good conversation with their dad about phones - they were under the impression that dad didn't have a phone when he was a kid.
They make fun of their best friend for being fat way too much.
They're also awfully thick, like Nancy Drew and her friends.And after reading this book and the Nancy Drew book, it seemed like the characters got knocked out at least once a day.
Getting knocked unconscious should be a big deal...
It is an old book, but there are books of this age that have aged better.
A return to my childhood. I reread this (for the first time since I was a kid) for a book challenge I'm doing. It was still entertaining and I enjoyed visiting with friends I hadn't seen in a long time. I liked reading about the characters back in the 60's when life was simpler and kids were more respectful and people were more trusting. Fun read.
Yes, the Hardy Boys books are corny by today's standards of popular literature, but I imagine in 90 years "The Hunger Games" will be viewed as "old" and "lame." Enjoy your depressing dystopian novels, while I read stories where a detective survives a large warehouse explosion and goes home to be served a glass of lemonade by his son.
If there were ten stars I would give it 10 stars. My favorite part in this book was when they heard people talking in the mill. I liked when these people ran up towards the Hardy Boys and the Hardy Boys ran the other way.
My niece-in-law gave us this book as a thank you for her birthday card and cash. So far, I find it hard to believe that no one suspects the counterfeiters just might be up to their shenanigans in the old mill!! The suspense is killing me! (she types, as her blue eyes sparkle)
There have to be better mysteries for kids than the two I've read.
45th book read in 2014.Number 178 out of 388 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YTVf7...
Really enjoyed reading this out loud to my boys! The 1962 edition had some nice vocabulary, with only a little outdated.
There's a reason for this series' continued appeal: It's timeless fun.
I love the hardy boy series and this book is really good. I hope lots of people like this book.
Nice plot hold you till the end!
The book The Secret of the Old Mill by Franklin W. Dixon is an interesting book. It’s based on two brothers who are named Frank and Joe Hardy. They’re known as the Hardy boys The Hardy boys find out about mysteries and then they go find out what they are about, after all that is done they write books about it. Later on, the main theme of the book, what's good about the book, and how others might feel about the book will be discussed. The better parts of the book are in the middle to the end. The
The main conflict of this book is the mysteries that they try to discover.
In this book the main mystery is about a case of counterfeit money they find is linked with a case that their dad is working on.
A few things I didn’t like about this book was the lack of pictures.
Even though I might not like that there is a lack of interesting pictures and the wording was difficult, other readers might actually find this better for them.
I would also recommend this book to someone who likes mystery books.
Personally I liked this book because although it is a level 3 book, it still had a decent amount of suspense, so I think the author did a pretty decent job there.
Some of the themes brought up in this book are Frauds, Mystery, and Hidden danger.
There are many frauds in the world currently, and the book does a great job of showing that when the man hands a fake 20 dollar bill.
One moment in the book that was considered powerful to me was when the man who handed Chet the fake 20 dollar bill, was caught.
The Hardy's get involved in not one, but two cases. Someone wants to blow up a missile plant on the outskirts of town while someone else is passing off counterfeit bills in town.All of these activities seem to be centered around an old restored mill.Read the book to find out what happens.Finally, in this the third book in the series, the action and concussion count heats up! Both Joe and Frank get knocked out!This book: 2The series: 2
The Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew are the first series that I remember reading. I was still in elementary school, but I remember thinking I was reading more grown up books because these were long (more than 20 pages, lol) and there was more than one book you could read with the same main characters! The innocence of these mysteries and recalling my own innocence just makes me happy. All parents should give their kids Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew when they're young - only good things can come of it.
I think this is the first book I ever read that wasn't a picture book. I include in my list of "Read" books, only to mark the beginning of my fascination with gripping stories and cliffhangers and such. Frank Dixon started churning these out in the late 1920s and the writing is *very* dated; they're almost painful to read now, as far as prose goes. But for a young kid, they definitely got me hooked!
Another great adventure with Frank and Joe. This book follows them into a counterfeiting operation. The $20 bills are fake! Poor Chet! Of course, they also help their Father solve his case as well. I highly recommend these books. They are great for boys and girls of all ages.
I love mystery so i love the Nancy Drew series and i just recently started reading Hardy Boys but i like them a lot. Both series are almost the same except there are different characters and they have different attitudes. I would definitely recommend this book especially if your into mystery!
