https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152403.Chances
In my teens I found a dog-eared copy of Jackie Collins "Chances" laying on a park bench.
I picked it up and started reading the story of Gino Santangelo.
What started out as a boring afternoon became my introduction into adult fiction and my love for Jackie Collins.For three days straight everything in my life stopped.
You know how when you are watching a movie with english subtitles and it is so good you feel like you aren't reading anymore.
This is the Jackie Collins style of writing.I really like Gino and his story.
I consistently hid my book when my parents were around.
I've followed the series through-out the years and now I read it publicly.
Jackie Collins has the flair of writing to give us glimpses of something glitzy, raw, violent and naughty.Chances is the first book in the series, and it's where the reader meets Lucky, Gino's teenage daughter before she became famous.
Luckily, since it is the first book in the series, you won't have to wait long.
The other books have been released.
But Chances was just released for Ebook!
If you haven't read a Jackie Collin's book yet, definitely start with Chances!
GR just recommended this to me because of my latest Kathleen E. Woodiwiss add and I recalled that I read Jackie Collins (rest her soul) back in high school. I kinda enjoyed it. I don't think I would again.
This story had everything, Crime, sex, drugs, whores, pimps, lust, deceit, revenge, love, backstabbing and friendship.
This 1st book in the series is based mostly around Gino and his story on how he came to be a big crime/ mob boss.
One of the things that I thought was very sad that seemed to hit all of the main characters was that living that crime life, seemed to have them loose almost everyone they truly loved.
I really loved that one of the main characters in the book and the series itself who plays a vital role in the crime life was a woman it gave the story a lot of spice!
I'm blown away.
Couldn't stop, couldn't think of anything else, couldn't funtion in real life until I finished 'Chances'.I hate mafia stories, I don't like books set in the 20th century (unless they are contemporary, say 1990 forward) and I never, never, never would have thought that I would like this even a bit...man was I wrong!Jackie Collins has a way of introducing lovable, flawed, kick ass characters that (even if the stories seem over the top) are believable.Gino Santangelo builds a criminal empire from nothing and later his daugther Lucky Santangelo, who grew up to be a spoilt brat, decides she has enough of the empty life dominated by others she is leading and takes over.Empowering book about how you can achieve anything you want if you just make up your mind to and start working hard to make it so.
i really liked this book and i am ashmamed of this fact. it was quite possibly the trashiest novel i have ever read.. with that said, i couldn't put the book down.. it was long and you loved how much more you got to get to be involved with the characters. i loved gino and carrie..i give this book two very embarrased thumbs up.. so worth the read, you will feel dirty, but breathless at the end! :)
Like so many others have mentioned before, this was the first novel I read as a teenager and I hid it from my mother. I loved this book then and I still love it now. The characters, the relationships and of course, the sex kept me reading. I have read some of Jackie Collins other books, but this one remains my favorite. I hadn't read in book in over 30 years but coming back to it was like visiting with old friends (ok, well maniac friends), familiar and fun. Good times!
I LOVE these books about the Santangelo family, and this one kicks it all off! I read them in my high school days, but really want to go back and read all of them again! This is just one of those mindless beach reads, but with action, sex, mobsters, bad marriages, and trouble! I give it two thumbs up!
I first read this book at least 20 years ago (maybe more), so it was a distant memory in my mental library when it was assigned as a book club summer read following the death of its author.I have to say, although it's no literary masterpiece it's still a rollicking good read that sucks you in from the start. I may even read the rest of the Santangelo series this year!
12/17/15: Free on Amazon! http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B018...
A little long, BUT, I loved it. Total soapy saga reminiscent of 80's prime time dramas like Dallas and Dynasty.
One time, this lady patron asked me if we had a certain Jackie Collins book she was looking for.
And I gotta tell ya.....this book is very and I mean VERY different than the kind of books I read!!As I opened the first few pages of Chances with my Caramel Macchiato sitting beside me, I get engrossed into the life of a Gangster named Gino Santangelo from when he was boy living on the streets trying to make a living sees the light of day as a Gangster and makes a living at it.
I probably shouldn't love this book because it's so crass and trashy and much longer than it really could have been, but I do love it and I have decided that is all I'm going to say. A great rollercoaster ride!
I actually read this book a number of years ago when I was not quite but nearly sweet 16.
I could not put this book down, it was exciting, fast paced, the chapters alternate between two different characters with two different stories but you know they'll come together somewhere.
At the time I only had Luckyto luck forward to but before long I could continue the Santangelo saga with Lady Boss and Vendetta: Luckys Revenge.All in all this book introduced me to Jackie Collinsworld and you know what...sometimes its all a bit cheesy...but I like it!
This was my first by Jackie Collins. Every girl has heard about her and I always thought it was chick lit, silliness and that she probably had no actual writing talent, just something for bored housewives to read.I could not have been more wrong. I was hooked from the first 20 pages. I love stories that follow generations and whole lifetimes of characters. It made you care about everyone in all the different time periods. There was also an element of suspense and surprise that carries throughout the entire book. Can’t wait to read the whole series
It's like watching an episode of The Sopranos. Highly entertaining.
I so happen to bought the last book in hardcover lol
A mixup of a overly dramatic soap opera, a trashy TV show and a Francis Ford Coppola mob film...and I loved every minute of it.
I skimmed this so fast I don't think I can claim to have read the whole thing, but wow. Finally I understand why Jackie Collins was such a star.
My library is filled with dozens upon dozens of unread books and more come out each day that I can’t wait to get my hands on, so many of my favorite books are safe from dog-eared pages and broken spines.Not so the case for Chances, an epic novel written by notoriously acclaimed British author Jackie Collins.
She is why I am drawn to strong female leads and she is why I love a good twist.Reading Chances at age 13, I was introduced to Lucky Santangelo, a woman that I would begin to literarily follow for the next two decades.
Happily, the next weekend was sunny and I was able to spend a lot of it out in the garden with my pink yoga mat (same shade as the book cover, incidentally), a pillow, and this book.Chances starts in 1977, as crime boss Gino Santangelo is on his way back to New York after a period of exile.
Not perfect: I had to suspend disbelief about Gino masterminding a criminal empire while staying clear of both prostitution and narcotics, and I would have liked more detail to convince me of Carrie’s transformation from call girl to society wife – I think it could be done, but not without a major crash course in speech, etiquette, fashion and a lot else.Bottom line: Chances is an exhilarating rags-to-riches rollercoaster.
It really is that good and I only wish my experience of reading it for the first time was half as exciting as that!Chances is my favourite book of all time.
I don't know how many times I've read it but each time is just as good as the first and I'm not bored yet.Lucky Santangelo is a fantastic character and probably my favourite female fictional character of all time.
I just wish Jackie would stop saying she wants Angelina Jolie to play her, I couldn't think of anyone worse to be Lucky!
I remember as a young girl growing up, my mother used to read Jackie Collins' books.
At age 10 I would NEVER be able to appreciate "books like this".CHANCES by Jackie Collins is unparalleled.
But then an unfortunate event takes place banning Gino from America.
She is determined to be bigger and better then her old man.In this book we are also introduced to Carrie, a woman who was forced into prostitution at the tender age of 12, paving the way for the unfortunate circumstances she had to suffer through.Both Carrie and Gino's stories are ones to always remember.
Despite the fact that he has done some pretty despicable things, it's hard not to like Gino.In Chances, we also meet Gino's daughter, Lucky Santangelo, and her younger brother Dario.
We also follow the story of Carrie, a beautiful young girl whose uncle forced her into a life of drugs and prostitution.
Eventually we learn of the connection between Carrie and the Santangelo's, and it's just as wild of a connection as you'd expect from Jackie Collins.If you're looking for a story that has a little of everything: glitz and glamor, organized crime, sex, drugs, love and deceit, friendship and family then don't look any further than Chances.
I haven't read anything from the Satangelo series in almost two decades but after starting Confessions of a Wild Child I KNEW I mustn't go on until I had re-freshened my memory and I am SO glad I did.
I'm going to continue with the series all over again with a fresh set of eyes and live in those moments, with those chracters once more before going back to read Confessions of a Wild Child!
You're the only author that can create a world and a cast of character that I feel I can actually "see".
I've missed the feeling of being completely absorbed in the place she has created for me.
I must admit I was absolutely shocked by how good this story was.
I can't wait to read the second installment about Lucky.
It was a very easy read but also had an addicting storyline.
However, I highly suspect that there is some aspect of truth behind this novel.
The same can be said for Carrie, Lucky ,Dario, Costa, Steven.......
I wish I would have read this novel as a teen, but I would not have been ready for the subject matter.
Although set in the 1920s-1970s, it is still a story to stand time and is like reading a piece of fiction history.
This is the book that made me a big fan of Jackie Collins.I like how she writes about celebrity scandals and power grabbing. I like how she breaks the spirit of the rich and famous. Her works make you wonder about how twisted hollywood really is.Gino Santangelo is one fine guy in my book. Yet again, I found myself having a crush on a fictional character. His rise from rags to riches (and i mean extreme riches) ahd me rooting for him all the way even if he made the usual mafia-like decisions.
What can I say? Omg! I loved this book. I loved how it introduced the characters separately and wove them all together by the end of the book. I love Gino Santangelo and his life story. I know the book is the prequel and introduction to all things Lucky Santangelo (his daughter) but I hope some of these characters pop up in future ones. The story starts out in the present (late 1970s) and jumps back and forth between present day and the past. Me, personally, I liked the stories from the past. A good read. Hard to put down.
Wow! This book contained sooooo much. It was a bit violent for my taste at the beginning. I really enjoyed going back and forth through the years, and am so happy to have officially started the Lucky Santangelo series! I am really looking forward to starting Lucky! As with all of the Jackie Collins books that I have read, the characters are well developed and surprisingly intertwined in one way or another. It was hard to read about Carrie's difficult early years, but that made it easier to cheer for her and Steven!
Trashiest book I have ever read. Pimps, prostitutes, hitmen, you name it. What I love about Jackie Collins, is that she doesn't take herself too seriously. She writes glitzy, trashy books. She knows it. She's amazing at it. For a book clocking in at 805 pages, it held my attention the entire time. Any author who can keep me reading about whorehouses and sleezy rich guys for 800 pages, is pretty damn talented in my book.
