https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23942.Queer
I have a passionate hatred for William Burroughs.
I admit my prior experience with him consists of 5 pages of Naked Lunch and a couple biographies of various sorts, none of which fail to mention the pedophilia and him murdering his wife (I'm from Detroit, don't think for a second I buy his bullshit story), not that I'd hold that against him when rating this book.
When you realize it, you cannot complain." The fact that this book is great somehow only makes me hate him more.
I mean, you won't do exactly what I want you to do all the time." I enjoyed the book for three basic reasons (in no particular order):1) The descriptions of Mexico City and various towns within Ecuador during the late 40’s/early 50’s for their cultural and historical value.2) The expression of what kind of psychological pains faced a homosexual in the not so distant past due to the obvious massive intolerance and condemnation of such people.
Certain “cult” writing earns this status because the prose is so transparent and simple it instantly appeals to teenage males done with Easton Ellis and Kerouac who want to up their shock quotient before attempting to read Gravity’s Rainbow for the first and last time.
Queer fits the bill except, by today’s standards, the book is a little prude in tight Speedos with its danglies between its thighs asking us to love it if we’d only give it a chance.
Will Lee is a homosexual-in-training in pursuit of reluctant, disobliging ass that often makes him cry, so unsure is he of his own sexuality.
This is a weird piece of tortuousness.
all the while trying pathetically to suck the dick of some straight serviceman who actually is not your friend and who is actually not queer.
you give queers a bad name!
Lee, No Means No!however, Queer, you do get 1 extra star because you may serve as a somewhat easy entry point into the writing of william s.
and, well, the writing in this one isn't really bad at all.
it is the story that revolts; the writing is on the interesting side of really-not-bad-at-all.
"An oil lamp lit a woman's body. Lee could feel desire for the woman through the other's body. 'I'm not queer' He thought. 'I'm disembodied.'"One of my personal favorite LGBTQ novels. A great exploration of Queer identity and hidden desires. Burroughs' prose is lyrical and simple.
If he is, it is neither here nor there because he is able to depict the reality of the homosexual world , categorically, the desire to establish an intimate relationship with a straight guy.
In the story, although not quite clear , the protagonist, Lee wants to build an intimate relationship with Allerton.
The story is not clear if he is a straight guy, but the story says that he does not like to make friends with a queer.
This is the fact to some extent that queers’ real intention whenever they make friends with a guy is to build an intimate relationship.
I have wanted to read Burroughs for a while and was going to start with Naked Lunch, but I kept hearing mixed opinions, so I continued to push it to the back of my TBR.
Then I came across this thin novel at a used bookstore and figured this was a good place to start.
Not only did I enjoy the novel, I loved that Burroughs had written the introduction.
Queer was written in 1949, but wasn't published until 1985.
So this novel was right in my wheelhouse.
Can't wait to read more of Burroughs' work.
I tried.
I effing tried.I can appreciate the book for what it is.
So in that respect, I can appreciate it for breaking ground, etc.
That said, I hated the book.
Lee is obnoxious, judgmental, entitled, and at times downright creepy in his pursuit of Eugene.
I don't expect characters to be sympathetic all the time (in fact, I rather enjoy anti-heroes), but for God's sake, they need to be INTERESTING.
Lee was about as fascinating as a teenager fixating on the rock star they're determined to marry, regardless of what that rock star thinks of the idea.DNF.
pathetic truth, not particular to sexual orientation: whomever you love, there is no limit to abasement you will eagerly suffer, for you will have no pride... though why this was not published and naked lunch was? no idea. here is the beginning of the outrageous, horrific, hilarious routines, from lee to his audience...
Lee, Chapter 4: "Got an idea for a new dish.
Take a live pig and throw it into a very hot oven so the pig is roasted outside and when you cut into it, it's still alive and twitching inside.
You can reach down and pull off the crispy, crackly ears and eat them with your cocktails."Junky is tougher, and Naked Lunch is weirder, but this is the best Burroughs' book I've read yet.
Light, touching, funny, yet dangerous, Queer isn't cuffed by the terse factual allegiance of Junky or the unchecked typhoon of spazz that makes 
Naked Lunch
A painful book, hard to reckon with, and unfinished in my view; I do not need a clear resolution, but it just seemed like this was a piece, a fragment, and it could have been something much more.
I feel like I just read an excerpt that is essentially a glimpse at some self-imposed outer/minor circle of hell for this singular gay man.
The reader may feel sorry for this leering, clearly clever, masochist at times, but it is hard to really sympathize, nor does Allerton inspire any kindly feelings.
Aunque no lo sea de forma explícita, ‘Queer’ parece la representación de la exploración del dolor y de la huída psicológica del propio Burroughs. Una muestra de su necesidad de calor humano y de afecto aderezada con una escritura visceral. Lo importante es que, al contrario de lo que pasa con ‘En la carretera’, no se queda en lo banal. Un poco superior a 'Los subterráneos'. A falta de conocer ‘Aullidos, ‘Yonqui’ o ‘El almuerzo desnudo’ es el mejor beat que he leído.
Since it was William Burroughs, and looked like a fairly quick read, I decided to pick it up.
The novel's plot revolves around gay two heroin addicts, William Lee and Eugene Allerton.
They decide to travel in search of some hallucinogenic drug which can only be obtained in the remote rainforest, and Lee promises to pay Allerton's way if he has sex with him a couple of times a week.
In the end, the reader gets the impression that the quest for the drug is upset, much like Lee's wish for Allerton to love and appreciate him.
So I have a tricky relationship with this book.It's one of the first pieces of queer literature that I ever read, and I read it when I was quite young.
He looks at his sexuality as a monster or an obstacle he must overcome and the book is just riddled with tension.If I read it correctly the first time, all those years ago, this character is a partial representation of how Burroughs felt about himself.So I don't like this book, but it'll always have a place in my heart as one of the first queer pieces of literature I read.
I wouldn't go so far as to call myself 'homophobic' but let's just say I feel slightly uncomfortable reading a book with the title of Queer on a crowded train.
This is written in the same straight-linear narrative as Junky and it ranks up there among his best.It's raw, gripping and Burroughs' pain expressed through the protagonist Lee is so well transfered to the pages that you can almost feel it and cut it with a knife.The pursuit of his lust/love, Allerton, came across as a bit of a vacuous, selfish youth but Lee does not let up in his pursuit and in the end you can see how he sort of 'drove' him away.
For the faint-hearted, this is not a book with graphic sexual detail and grotesque imagery, far from it.
Queer had a bit of that crazy on the road feel.
Lee's desperation for any kind of attention from the people in his life and then, specifically, Allerton was heart-wrenching.
Realizing that he may actually be a bit of a joke in the eyes of Allerton, but still so very very desperate to hold on to the very little bit of attention and intimacy that Allerton does allow him.
This feeling of desperation and taking any little scraps that are thrown your way are all too familiar.
I realize how willing a person can become (me) to do anything for just a little bit when you feel so alone in the world you live in.
But me, I really like a character I can get properly into.
I don't even have to like him/her (my favourite book is "The Picture of Dorian Gray" and its protagonist is a complete douche).
Hence, it took me several days to get through a book I would normally have managed in a few hours.The setting is interesting, the descriptions are vivid and sometimes even riveting, but the book follows a character with whom it is (in my opinion) completely impossible to sympathise, mainly because it seems that he is entirely lacking in any kind of logical motivation for any of his actions.
"Queer" is interesting to me as you can see Burroughs' evolution as a writer and the novel also has a foreboding quality that many attribute to Burroughs' accidental murder of his common law wife.
The actual plot of the book is pretty basic, it involves William Lee's infatuation with a young man in Mexico.
The novel shows that any type of addiction, even one as innocuous as romantic feelings for another, often results in an individual feeling powerless and futile.
"Queer" is a short, easy read, and a pretty good introduction to Burroughs' if one hasn't read any of his work before.
Burroughs mantiene acá el registro directo y autobiográfico de Junky, pero sin la calma artificial de la morfina su protagonista y narrador tiene un tono muy distinto.
Sin su armadura química, redescubre las pasiones y los bajones de la vida pulsional: "En la tristeza profunda no hay lugar para el sentimentalismo.
Es algo tan inapelable como las montañas: un hecho.
Una vez que uno lo comprende, no puede quejarse".
En la imprescindible introducción, Burroughs ahonda en ese aparente abismo entre el Lee de su primer libro y el de este libro.
Para ese último demasiadas cosas están contaminadas de dudas, frustraciones y agresiones.
Burroughs je jedan od onih pisaca koje teško definiram. Niti ga volim, niti ga mrzim, a uporno čitam i kupujem sve njegovo do čega mogu doći. Možda samo pokušavam shvatiti oko čega se već toliko dugo godina diže takva pompa i po čemu je on toliko kultan i obožavan. Meni rečenice poput "...košulja mi se zalijepila za tijelo poput mokrog kondoma..." i nemaju neku veliku književnu vrijednost.
It was a wise old queen - Bobo, we called her - who taught me that I had a duty to live and to bear my burden proudly for all to see, to conquer prejudice and ignorance and hate with knowledge and sincerity and love." page 35"Next day Lee said: “In 1873 the pope issued a bull to the effect there would be no more discussion of the Immaculate Conception.
I am issuing a similar bull in regard to that fifty dollars." page 69"Come to think of it that is the wisdom of the East.
In the end the idea of the book, and learning about Mexico and Burroughs back in the day was something that really appealed to me and i enjoyed, however if I was to rate the book itself ...
Mai mult a fost efortul depus şi taxele poştale pentru o cărţulie groasă de 150 de pagini.Pederast este aproape un roman de dragoste.
Am luat cartea în mînă puţin circumspect şi strîmbînd din nas.
În trei ore l-am descoperit pe un Burroughs tare ciudat, dubios de amorezat, un ibovnic cu gust de mucus rectal plecat în căutare renumitului drog Yage.Cartea este scrisă simplu, simplist, minimum de stil, o compoziţie la limita mediocrului.
Pentru că e o poveste de dragoste născută din jeg, trăită şi-ngropată-n jeg.
După mine e cel mai slab roman al lui Burroughs, dar asta nu înseamnă că nu merită menţionat şi răsfoit.
The idea that Burroughs even wrote this account of a homo-sexual relationship that spans continents and also inhabits heavy drug use and other topics that would be very played upon for our white picket fence society of post war America in late 40's early 50's, is just another amazing thing to be said about the author and the "Beat Generation" in general.
"Queer" is a must read for any Beat, Lost Generation, or Post War Modernist fans and needs to be read for literature's sake.
Burroughs novel comes.
Queer is an unreciprocated love story, in which the protagonist Lee craves love and attention from a young American by the name of Eugene Allerton.
Later in the book Lee persuades Allerton with the aid of a financial incentive to join him on a journey to South America in search of yage, an elusive drug purported to have telepathic qualities.
Autobiographical in nature, the book is an account of Burroughs’s life in Mexico, during a troubled time in his life shortly after accidentally shooting wife Joan Vollmer dead.
Whilst certain flights of fancy beautifully and crudely show a desperate flamboyance of the auto-fictive protagonist Lee's psychological and sexual insecurity, too much of this novel is pedestrian, and rather melodramatic.
Certain scenes of rejection by the love-object Allerton do inspire some initial pity for Lee, and are the more curious passages.
But his tears of self-pity over this are tedious, and the quest for a exotic drug Yage which will enable Lee to instantly command companionship and subservience in others becomes a repetitive demonstration of an egotistical childishness that I find boring in life and novel.
Along with the effort to «choke» the narcotic madness , Lee is being fed with moments , sick many times , sprouting through a grueling and totalitarian desire for another drug user.Through this miserable love absoluteness Lee, using as a «literary paradigm» the Mexico City, will bring to the surface the darker side of American society .
Sexy , emetic , excellent, divine , disgusting or masterpiece, «Queer» is a «horror memento», a «guide» of violence and misery that characterized the capitalist world in the last half of the last century ...
It is equally as sad, how little this nation has changed with his hatred and judgement of people.You come away with a feeling of bleak sadness for Burroughs that all of the love he seeks is riddled with snares and barbs and twisted lust fueled by his addictions to drugs and alcohol.
True love is tough to find and live with as it is, let alone trying to love and fight societal prejudice, urgings of the groin, addiction, and being an obtuse artist.This book isn't for everyone, so use your best judgement if you chose to read it.
If you want to read what goes through the heart and mind of a troubled man, then this is your book.
William S.Burroughs é um daqueles escritores que é considerado por muita gente como "intocável" e cada livro seu tem de ser uma obra prima.
Por vezes é um típico romance sobre uma relação amorosa frustrada; noutras alturas é uma espécie de livro de viagens com uma descrição de uma viagem pouco atractiva ao Equador.
O que é um facto é que é um livro azedo, tão azedo como deve ter sido o autor.Tudo o que descreve, desde pessoas a locais ou situações é feio, sujo e degradante.Enfim, sei que vou ser muito criticado por não "alinhar" neste "campeonato, mas é a minha opinião.


