https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/203979.The_Long_Loneliness
In many ways this is a difficult book - Dorothy was nothing if not difficult.
Her reduction of Christianity to a lived pattern of daily actions (pray, feed the hungry, clothe the naked) leaves not much room for those things most of us view as essential (no matter how much she listened to the opera on the radio, or read Dostoevsky).
I was in New York City the night she died, riding a cab uptown, spending money as one must to survive as a tourist.
It was cold and wet, and the Christmas lights were shining brilliantly on the pavement.
I found myself marking down passages for further review throughout the book.
It's rich with theology, philosophy and theory on social order, but it's a story, a story told by a journalist, and it's entirely readable.This book is available at an underfunded DC public library near you, but I had to wait weeks to get it, and someone else has it on hold after me.
Maybe they should get another copy.
Seriously, this particular copy is a hard cover and originally sold for $3.50.
The Long Loneliness tells the life story of Catholic social activist Dorothy Day. It was required reading for our Spiritual Classics class.
At the time, it seemed an unusual choice to me being too modern to yet be considered a ‘classic’.
Viewed from the wider perspective, I believe Sr. Jan wanted us to see/learn the importance of active faith or faith-in-action as lived by this remarkable woman.
Dorothy Day's life was a constant series of choices for God, not so much between good and evil but between ‘the good’ and ‘the better’, something not so easily or readily discernible even where and when it is recognized.
The program he preached to her and which got implemented in stages over the next many years was a newspaper, a daily, the Catholic Worker; hospitality houses in the big cities to help the working poor; and rural farming communes.All of these did happen but in her autobiography Dorothy Day does not claim credit for them, rather she says they just happened as various of them were sitting around and talking:We were just sitting there talking when Peter Maurin came in.We were just sitting there talking when lines of people began to form saying, "We need bread."....If there were six small loaves and a few fishes, we had to divide them.
"What convenience are you willing to give up in order to create the good that you want to see in the world?" (That's actually a quote from a keynote address Ashton Kutcher gave at a tech conference, but that's the book.)This book caught me by surprise, and made me think really, really hard about that question, even though it is a question I figured I had already thought really hard about.
Her meeting with Peter Maurin in 1932 provided the catalyst for the creation of the Catholic Worker newspaper, which begot the movement.
Because to this day the Catholic Worker has its roots in her interpretation of the Christian gospels.She wrote in her diary that in this book she “tried to write only of those things which brought about my conversion to the faith.” So this is not a comprehensive biography, and it ends in 1952.
Section three discusses Peter Maurin and the early history of the Catholic Worker community.
About spirituality and religion, practical philosophy, social justice, war and peace, family life and community.
Dorothy Day is very inspiring to me.
First it was a publication talking about the issues of the time (the 30's, 40's ?) and then they created Hospitality Houses to serve and house the homeless.
She took the teachings of Jesus to heart, and practiced them in a very real way, and even defied the Catholic Church from time to time in her radical criticisms of society and capitalism, and the way the Catholic Church often skirted social justice issues.
Other churches gave charity, she wanted to give charity AND attack the issues that were leading to the need for charity.
In some ways this book is dated but the story of Dorothy Day is important for anyone who is interested in peace and justice. The movement she started, the Catholic Worker, was extraordinary. Highly recommend.
The Long Loneliness by Dorothy Day has long been held to be an important social document as well as a meaningful written Catholic memoir, because it delves deeply into the intimate conversion experience whereby there is a moving epiphany that changes that person so completely and totally.
Even before the Catholic Worker was ever founded by Dorothy Day and Peter Maurin, their approach to religious activism was almost on par with other lay Catholic social orgaizations, mirroring the motto of Catholic Action, founded in 1868, the best, whose battle cry is: Prayer.
(I wasn't surprised when she wrote about how others felt that her writing lacked some passion.) Still, it's well worth continuing and I am looking forward to part 3.* * * * * * * * * * * *I just finished, and am thoroughly impressed with Dorothy Day and the Catholic Worker Movement.
My opinion about the book ultimately remains unchanged (from above), but I will give it this: I believe that part the reason the book lacks engagement is that Day herself is humble and understated.
There were moments when she wrote with great engagement, and others when she was more reserved.
Day switches from one circle of friends to another, and she goes into a bit of detail about the religious ceremonies she enjoys, but a reader choosing one page at random from anywhere in the book will be unable to determine if she has experienced a conversion yet or not.
Instead, the reader finds name after name dropped, along with passionless observations of uninteresting daily life details, and about the only thing the story has going for it is that at least it's mostly chronological.At one point, a priest tells Day that her writing contains much of self and almost nothing of Christ.
What a life! Dorothy Day is inspiring in her commitment to her faith, in putting her faith in action, despite the opinions, criticisms, and dogmas of others and of institutions. I admire her blend of anarchism and Christianity, and how by blending them, she cleaved to the truest core of those seemingly different ideologies and theologies, and demonstrated how very compatible (and necessarily so, if they are to be lived out instead of merely preached) they are. An exemplar of self-sacrifice, of helping others in meaningful ways, of loving in the most radical and uncompromised sense!
I found myself refreshed learning about this kind of radicalism. Such passion for Christ, and yet so different from the familiar preachers, missionaries and such. Doris revealed to me a new approach for the faith and helped me see what poverty, sacrifice, grace and service for the Lord mean. I felt drawn into the world in which she lived and could use that position to re-evaluate my own. Her clear, expressive writing was a joy to read.
This was a great book by catholic social activist and co founder of the catholic workers movement Dorothy Day. Being an autobiography, it was awesome to see the transformation that this woman's life took. Inspiring to see the road Dorothy Day traveled as she discovered her purpose in life. The book challenges action on the part of christians to love your neighbor as yourself, and above yourself. Now I want to go live in a hospitality house and care for the poor and homeless!
This is a re-read. And it remains a favorite - not for the style of writing or for the way in which the story is told (i actually think that that leaves a good bit to be desired) - but i feel reassured by the character and ideology of Dorothy Day and have had new lessons, new thoughts to consider each time I've read it.
An extraordinary life of an irreplaceable woman caught up in the radical ways of Christ.
Summary: A memoir of the life of Dorothy Day up to 1952, describing her search for God and a meaningful life, her conversion to Catholicism, her catalytic friendship with Peter Maurin, and the early years of the Catholic Worker movement.This is the memoir of a woman who grew up in a middle class family, the daughter of a sports writer, a teen who read Upton Sinclair and Doestoevsky, spent two years at the University of Illinois, then left to pursue life as a writer on the lower east side of Manhatten, working for several Socialist publications, getting arrested for the first time in 1917 (her last was as a 75 year old!).
I had thought all those years tha I had freedom, but now I felt that I had never known real freedom nor even had knowledge of what freedom meant." (135)"One must do things sometimes to make life more bearable." (141, quoting St. Teresa of Avila)"We all crave order, and in the Book of Job, hell is described as a place where no order is." (141)"I made up my mind to accept what I did not undersand, trusting light to come, as it sometimes did, in a blinding flash of exultation and realization." (143)"I loved the church for Christ made visible.
I felt about this very much as I felt about St. Therese of Lisieux's Story of a Soul — I liked half of it a lot.
It told a lot about her life and the conditions of the time in which she grew up, which were really interesting and put her into a lot of context.
In the last half she spent a lot of time on personalities's stories which I didn't care about which accounts for my disinterest in that section.
I much prefer On Pilgrimage for a look at daily life with Dorothy Day, especially since it is a journal account going over about a year.
An inspiring autobiography of a woman of action. Dorothy Day turns her journalistic eye inwards and depicts the roots of the Catholic worker movement, as well as her own faith. It made me wonder what we could accomplish today if we acted with the same initiative and determination.You could probably just skip the first section ('searching') and jump directly into sections 2 ('natural happiness') and 3 ('love is the measure') which I found to be much more engaging.
I was not super taken with the prose and felt it rambled at times, but, all that said, I loved the story of her life. I loved her wisdom and her deep love of the poor and unfortunate. Servant of God Dorothy Day, pray for us.
An engaging memoir from one of Christianity's most hardcore figures: the Catholic pacifist and anarchist Dorothy Day. Recounts her upbringing, time on the Left around WWI, her conversion to Catholicism, and the founding of the Catholic Worker Movement. Was honestly a bit rambling, but a good read.
I give it 5 stars only because I learned a good bit about Day. If I were honest, and not a fan of the author, the literary rating, or the book's readability would get perhaps 2.5 stars.Dorothy's well known socialism and no-nonsense attitude toward right and wrong, and her lack of tolerance for red tape, are part of why I admire her.
In Akron there is a Peter Maurin center that also works to help those in need.My issue with the book involved poor continuity.
I was unable to follow the topics when names, places, and topics largely unknown to us today were used.
Dorothy Day was a journalist/writer and founder of the Catholic Worker movement in the 1930s.
The Catholic Worker movement emphasized care for the poor, voluntary poverty, and communal living with a communist flavor.
Nonetheless, Day's memoir of her early life and conversion is some of the best and most inspiring writing I have ever read, and the book is worth it for that alone.The Long Loneliness is a reflective title.
Around the same time she began a lifelong quest to, as I've heard it described, "comfort the afflicted and afflict the comfortable." Gathering steam as a chronicler and then comrade-in-arms, she was jailed numerous times for standing with the labor unionizers, the working poor, the anti-conscriptionists, the immigrants, and other marginalized groups of people in America.
Dorothy Day was last jailed for protesting nuclear armaments at the age of 73, she died in 1980, and her cause for canonization has been opened.
Her conversion to Catholicism meant the end of her common-law marriage but involved her deeper in her work.When Dorothy Day died in 1980, the New York Times eulogized her as a "nonviolent social radical of luminous personality." She was founder of the Catholic Worker Movement and leader for more than fifty years in numerous battles for social justice.
Her life spanned nearly a hundred years and she lived through the Great Depression, both World Wars, the Vietnam War and the Civil Rights Movement.
She was a social activist for most of her adult life and was a passionate advocate for women's rights.
Dorothy Day's life story is remarkable.
In this, the story of her life, she goes into incredible detail about her family and her early days with a nostalgic faith and joy.
She draws you into her life as a political activist turned social activist turned Catholic worker.
It is remarkable to see how God works!
I highly recommend this book to those who have need of inspirational figures who truly make the Body of Christ visible in our Holy Catholic Church.
I have read the taught this book so many times now and every time I do I find something new and wonderful about it.
It is of course, a great way to study mid-century American religious history, which is why I teach it, but my secret is that I include it in my classes because I like reading it again and again.
Day's commitment to social justice and self sacrifice is obviously inspirational and particularly relevant at the moment, but her articulation of her religious struggles is what keeps me devoted to this text.
This is the life of a saint, though Dorothy Day said she never wanted to be called a saint.
But if saints are witnesses, and models of Christian charity, then Day was a saint.
This is one of those simple memoirs that slowly draws you into a world changed by conversion.
It should be in the same category as The Confessions or Seven Storey Mountain.
Day started the Catholic Worker movement and produced a penny newspaper called The Catholic Worker.
Rather believed that society should be organized around basic Christian ideas where we all take care of each other and especially the least of those among us.
Dorothy Day was a radical, a socialist, even an anarchist.
She had a common law husband and with him a child.
He was an atheist.
She felt a need to raise their child a Catholic.
He left her.
Her life as a Catholic was also radical.
It was all about the works of mercy.
Feed the hungry.
Clothe the naked.
She was intense.
An intense faith.
Her story is more about the nuts and bolts of her life than about her conversion.
The Catholic Church has saints of all types.
Think Dorothy Day and the Little Flower.
