https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11594337-the-one-and-only-ivan
I've had The One and Only Ivan on my 'to be read' list for several months, and I'm so glad I read it!
A fabulous book for elementary and middle grades (and older), this is probably my favorite animal story since Charlotte's Web -- and I don't make that comparison lightly.
Like E.B. White's classic, it is by turns tender, funny, sad and uplifting.
It's a quick read -- I'm a slow reader, and I got through it in one day.
Ivan the gorilla narrates, and he is a very fine fellow indeed.
I loved it.
More importantly, I think kids will love it too.
A very touching story that will rip out your heart, stomp on it, then pick it back up and cradle it. Cause that's what Silverbacks do.I appreciate all the things KA managed to work into this book - primarily, our misunderstanding of animals (and mistreat), while showing that we aren't all bad. Also Stella's character was awesome. I'LL MISS YOU STELLAPHANT.Anyways, READ IT.
Please visit my blog www.readrantrockandroll.com to see this review and learn more about Ivan the gorilla. I really enjoyed this fictional story of Ivan the gorilla. The story made me think of the real Ivan and his life. What really went on in his head during those 27 years of being locked up at that dept. store?The story is cute and great for all ages. I'd recommend reading the true story about Ivan and his life before reading this fictional one. 4****
In a book called “The One and Only Ivan”, it makes sense that Ivan is at the heart of the story.
Real life Ivan’s story matches up with our Ivan’s story, but Katherine Applegate wove her magic in telling the story in the first gorilla (I just can’t help it!) POV and personified Ivan with an entire range of human thoughts, feelings and emotions.
“The One and Only Ivan” doesn't come right out and say that animals can't ever have happy lives in captivity.
I bet everyone who has spent time with Ivan strongly agrees.I couldn’t shower enough accolades for this book.
Oh my fricken bananas...I knew ‘nothing’ about this book ...[ a children’s book]...based on a true story....Only that it was suggested I read it.
Thank you Mischenko and Lisa I not only read this wonderful children’s book...
but the facts about the true story.
Sometimes, life just pisses me off ...
the selfish stupid insane things they do!My anger and sadness buttons were pushed from the true story.
The children’s book is written with dignity-moral consciousness - and some honest happy smiles too!!!!
If you have little people in your life....
this is a great book choice to read and discuss.
The book is about a silverback gorilla named Ivan who lives in a cage at a mall.
The novel is written in first person from the point of view of Ivan, a silverback gorilla.
Ivan, the silverback gorilla, has lived in captivity at the Big Top Mall for 9,855 days by his own tally.
Along with Ivan, Stella the elephant and Bob a stray dog, live at the mall.
Unlike Ivan, Stella has a long memory, and can remember living other places, like the circus where she was taught many of her tricks.
However, Stella would like to live at a zoo, because they have much wider spaces for their domains.
This book is so real. It's almost too deep for a children's book. Even though it's about talking animals and Ivan's complexity of thought could be a little misleading, this book touches on so many great themes both superficial toward children, but also in general about humanity, if you're mature enough to understand it. This book was cute, sad, and something very new to me. I adored it and it is such a fast read that I highly recommend it!
Think of all of the good stuff you loved about THE ART OF RACING IN THE RAIN and TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE and, instead of sitting with Enzo in a cozy living room watching the discovery channel or with Morrie in a study littered with books and notes, you'll be sitting in a cage with Ivan, "the Ape at Exit 8," a thoughtful gorilla tasked with one of the most difficult callings ever.
Mr. Hankins is coming out early to predict big things for Katherine Appelgate's THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN in 2012.
Don't have enough of the right words to describe it...I definitely haven't mastered the craft of writing the way Ms. Applegate has.
And the way she does it, with the sparest of prose, is impressive.To me, "good" writing makes the reader view something with a fresh perspective, as if (s)he has never, ever experienced it before.
Never thought about being a gorilla before.
I can't WAIT to get a set of these and share this story with kids, both to showcase the fine writing AND for the remarkable lessons on friendship, humane treatment of animals, and the unexpected.
3.5
I have not read a middle grade children's book in a long time, and I am glad I picked up Ivan for my kids.
Kristina Applegate does a wonderful job giving Ivan and his friends their inner voices as they contemplate life in captivity and what it means to be a good or a bad human.
I think this book is appropriate for elementary aged children.
They will probably find both the animal and human characters enjoyable as they root for Ivan and his friends to get out of their cages and into the zoo.
Little kids LOVE emotionally manipulative sad books about animals.
That being said, Ivan stands on it's own two feet, I didn't feel like the author was using White as a crutch.Another thing that is good is the book's treatment of "villains." The "villain" in this book (barring the unseen and unheard humans of the past who slaughtered elephants, gorillas, and dogs respectively) would be the mall's owner, Mack.
He even (view spoiler)[looks at some pictures of him and Ivan together when Ivan was a baby and Ivan lived in his house for years.
(hide spoiler)] I feel like this is a very good thing.
A re-read and yup it’s still a Wow!!! What a wonderful story!!! I picked this out of the blue I didn't realize it was a "kids" book but it didn't feel like it. I loved it!!! This book is for everyone.
I like colorful tales with black beginnings and stormy middles and cloudless blue-sky endings.
But any story will do.
~The One and Only Ivan::sniff:: What's that in my eye, this watery, salty substance?
No. I'm not crying.
No. I'm not crying.
I'm too old and cynical to cry.
My tear ducts have long dried up.
Really.::sniff::Oh for godsake, will someone hand me a tissue!This is a sweet, adorable story that will tug at your heart-strings in the most uplifting way.
It is a beautiful, tender tale of friendship, acceptance and hope.
The perfect antidote for the overworked, stressed out grinch in all of us.
Este fue el último libro que leí en marzo, pero decidí esperar unos días para no escribir la reseña en "caliente".Esta es una novela sobrecogedora, esperanzadora pero muy cruel.
Una novela para reflexionar sobre quién es realmente la bestia no pensante: los animales que actúan por instinto, o los humanos que predeterminadamente dañan sólo por dañar...Los animales viven, nosotros invadimos.
Y la voz de un gorila macho que se extingue sólo nos recuerda lo tóxica que es nuestra especie, incluso con nuestros primos lejanos.Pd: lloré con una frase de este libro.
Una historia muy conmovedora, con unos personajes que se ganan tu corazón y una enseñanza muy bonita. Una lectura ligera, fácil y rápida. Me ha gustado bastante la historia de Iván. Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com.co/201...
Edit: My friend Matt recently wrote a review for this book and it's shorter and much nicer than mine so you should read his instead of mine.
Matt's review is here.So my childhood came for a visit last weekend.
By that, I mean this book came into my life last weekend.
I think that is a deadly combination.The book is written in poetic "chapters" that reminded me of Ellen Hopkin's works.
His isolation from his kind and the naivety his human caretakers his given him.This book is a MUST READ for the old, young, young-at-heart, happy, sad, emotionless, and everyone in between.
My goodness! This book is gorgeous and so inspirational! It's based on a true story and I just got all choked up at the end! Love this sweet story <3
Great stuff in this book.Ivan is a silverback gorilla that is held in a side show with only a few animals.
Stella's voice is great and Bob is hilarious.
I love Bob. I thought that someone was actually reading sign language from a gorilla and relating the story for us at first it was so convincing.
It was great and it reminded me of Ivan's voice.There is pain and the animals tell their stories of being afraid and captured.
There is death and there is wonder in this story.This is the reason I love middle grade so much.
This was the absolute CUTEST!!!!!
No tengo palabras para describir este libro. 5/5 y directo a mis favoritos.
Absolutely adorable, wise, sad and so many other adjectives all meaning very good. The friendships and inner voices of these animals were amazing. I think that some of the children would not understand but reading this as an adult they show such irony and wisdom. Hoping to read this to my grandchildren when they come in a couple of weeks.
This is a great book about wild animals being forced to live in bad conditions by ignorant humans.
Ivan is based on a real Gorilla, and the fictional story Applegate wove pulled a bit on my heartstrings.
I love Stella.
It's a very, very sweet story.
I can definitely see why people love this one so much!
I borrowed the audiobook from my library using an app, but then I found out there was illustrastions and felt like I was missing out.
There are some prime examples if you google for them though, so I got to see some of them.
This fascinating approach lends a believable voice to our wise gorilla narrator, who speaks simply but understands deeply.
The structure, however, did not make for a great listening experience.
Long pauses between each "chapter" coupled with the many "chapter titles" made for an odd and disjointed listening experience.
My children enjoyed this.
The writing was a little simple for middle grade but mine are elementary, so either could have easily read the text.
I found it to be largely depressing for a children's book.
Also, I cannot believe anyone would ever use a gorilla's hand for an ashtray...I find that fact deeply distressing.
Inspired from real-life events, the author pens a heart-breaking yet thoroughly entertaining story about a gorilla and his friends and his mission to find freedom, and mind it, this book is not only for the middle-grade children, but can be enjoyed irrespective of any age of the reader, from young to old.Synopsis:  Ivan is an easygoing gorilla.
The author did a great job in capturing the voice of the animals, especially Ivan, through this story and thus making the readers feel connected with him.
The characters here are mostly animals and the author has captured their honest voice and thoughts thus bringing them to life.
Ivan's philisophical observations, his acceptance of his circumstances, his stubborn desire to never remember his wild and free childhood before he was captured, his all-consuming, engrossing characterisation, and the way he changes to become the silverback he's always wanted to be, like his father, when he meets Ruby -make this a page-turner.
I am angry to protect you, because that is what I was born to do.Here in my domain, there is no one to protect.'At page 72, my heart clenched and my eyes misted over with the introduction of baby Ruby, her distress and Stella's comfort...I'm tearing up just thinking about it.
Thanks to Ruby, Ivan sees that this is no place for a baby of any sort and he must use all his brains and intelligence to find a way to save not just her but himself as well.It is the temptation of every author, bad or good, to simplify ethics when they write for kids.
Ivan isn't stupid by gorilla means but kids might find his thought process a bit slow from the human standpoint.
Ivan tells Ruby that zoos are where "humans make amends." It would make for a good book group discussion point: Does the author think zoos are a good thing or a bad thing?
Based on a true story, THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN is the tale of a silverback gorilla who's forgotten how to be a gorilla in many ways.
The narration (by Ivan the gorilla!) could easily have slipped into the melodramatic, but heavy doses of humor and an equal balance of heart keep it from being anything but poignant and perfect.
Kids will love this book, and in the classroom, it will pair nicely with articles like this one (http://www.paws.org/ivan-gorilla.html) about the real Ivan that inspired the story.I support independent bookstores.
Here's a link to find one near you or to order THE ONE AND ONLY IVAN via IndieBound: http://www.indiebound.org/book/978006...
Suddenly his domain doesn’t seem so warm anymore; now it seems like the small cage that it is.The Review:This story was heart-warming and heart-wrenching all at the same time.
My heart strings haven’t been pulled quite so much by a book this entire year.I don’t know how she did it, but if gorillas could truly talk, I think they would sound exactly like how Katherine Applegate wrote Ivan’s voice.
Ruby makes Ivan recognize his past, which he had shut out, and also helps him to see that the Big Top Mall is not the right place for Ruby.
The book is based on a real gorilla who was locked up in a cage of a Washington mall for 27 years before public awareness finally grew and people demanded that he be brought to a zoo (in Atlanta) at least.So this story is about Ivan and a few other animals who live in a mall and how they spend their day-to-day lives.
(hide spoiler)]In the wake of what happened to the poor gorilla in Cincinnati Zoo when a baby fell into the enclosure, one story within this book strikes especially hard.
