https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8520609-the-complete-oz
Not only do you see Oz in these books but you see other magical countries like one that snows popcorn, and one that lies the Gnome King.
These books are full of fantastic characters; like the famous Scarecrow of Oz, The Patchwork girl Scraps, The shaggy Man, Princess Ozma, Dorothy and so many others.
Each book you get spend time with your favorite characters, and meet fascinating new characters while they take amazing adventures.
I will also like to know if i'm the only one who thinks Ozma give's Dorothy patronizing smiles when she thinks she said something stupid?
I have gone out of my way to rate this particular Collection because not all the mobile versions are well edited. This one has indexes for every book and displays all the relevant content. For example, how frustrating is it to get to the description of the notes about Tic Toc in the third book to find the text missing because it is an image in the original books? This version has the text. If you want the Oz books compiled on your shelf in one book, until they come out with one containing the original illustrations, this is worthy.
I have read these books aloud to my sons and I have to say these are some of my favorite stories! I would love to own the collection as a whole to give them when they are adults so they may read to their children.
I love the classic film and as a parent, had seen it some hundred plus times over the years, thanks mainly to a daughter who was obsessed with it at one point.
I had read the first book when I was much younger, seeking more of the color and pageantry and spectacle of the movie and remember being vaguely disappointed.
This is one of the greatest classics of all time.
Thanks for the nook lend Mychael!
Very much like the Narnia books in the easy, deceptively simplistic style of writing.
As much as I enjoyed the lighthearted, breezy tone of the book perhaps it wasn't the best idea to try and read the whole thing through (over the course of two weeks more or less).
Towards the end the stories became more contrived, big surprise there.
The little notes by the author speaking to his child readers were appealingly whimsical at first but became more and more tiresome and self-excusing.
Overall, probably would have enjoyed this more if I read each story with enough space in between to forget the last one.
I am such a huge fan of the entire Oz series by L. Frank Baum. Other authors have tried to continue the series and it just isn't the same. I've read them all, some are better than others, hands down my favorite is the Tin Woodman of Oz. There is some carry-over in story line from book to book, but each stands alone as it's own story. They can be read out of order (that's how I did it as a kid) w/ no difficulty.
I would love this set! I read at least 7 of these when I was in elementary school, but I would love to re-read them and complete the set! This would be a great set to have for our kids as well. :)
I've read all of these books as a child and I would love to own the entire collection so I may share it with my nephew and niece.
Such a wonderful collection. I have read these stories to my sister and they love it.
The myth of eternal return concealed in a children tale.
Many of the more absurd aspects of the book (“absurd” like _Alice in Wonderland_ is absurd) struck me as a general comment on how ridiculous some human customs really are, all in the name of “tradition,” or the excuse that “that’s how it’s always been” (I’m thinking specifically of the “army” of the Emerald City being one man).As I write this review I'm still reading the rest of the sequels, but after just a couple more I can see I'm looking forward to more of the same, so I won't add further comment here unless something really jumps out at me.
I love these books. They were some of my favorites growing up. Some of them definitely more so than others, but all are worth a read. Some are almost a little disturbing if you think about it too hard, (a woman with interchangeable heads that wants to add to her collection? Didn't bother me as a kid but in retrospect kind of creepy) but they're all a lovely shade of nonsense. So much wonder and magic. A must read.
The 1st book is VERY different from the movie! This was a great read.I have not read the other books yet.I started one and wasn't in to it.I really just wanted to read the 1st one.So I am calling it done!
picked up the complete set of Oz books on Amazon for Kindle for just £0.72 (yup, 72 pence for 15 books) that's what I call a result.
A whopping $.99 on Kindle. No pics like in the originals though :/
I LOVE the wizard of oz movie and as I have read Dorothy must Die I would love to get my hands on these!
The rest of the time Ojo kept the group going, which included the Patchwork Girl (who was kind of annoying and who the Scarecrow loves), the Glass Cat (also sassy, reminded me of Eureka the cat & Billina), The Woozy (sort of a knockoff of previous characters) and of course, the Shaggy Man. One part that stuck out in my mind as being kind of creepy was when Ojo originally spent the night in a house on his journey to the Yellow Brick Road, and it was just a voice telling him to sleep & eat and he couldn't see anyone.
I've been reading this over the past 5 years.
it's a noble series darker than I had imagined, especially after having watched MGM's resounding The Wizard of Oz many times from childhood on.
The Wizard carried a pistol, the Wicked Witch of the West sent a horde of wolves to tear Dorothy to pieces and a hive of bees to sting her eyes out.
There are even books written in blood.
The fourteen books in the series have the same style of plot, usually involving a rescue of some sorts.
I feel accomplished having finally completed the series after all of these years.
Wow, finally finally done.
Were these amazing books?
His opinions on a multitude of subjects ranging from higher education to wealth accumulation to what it means to be a decent person are not-so-subtly scattered throughout all of these books.
:)Everything is a fast read, and while I would not say that each of the stories is repetitive necessarily, they are not gripping.
I would say read the first 3 and maybe Rinkitink in Oz (one of my favorites) and skip the rest, though many people argue that The Patchwork Girl of Oz is one of the best.
Wonderful StoriesAbsolutely the most wonderful set of stories to come out of America. Mr. Baum has written stories that are great for children, but that can appeal to adults as well.
I only got through about half. I probably would have enjoyed it more as a kid but as an adult I found it repetitive and not fun after the first 3 stories or so. And I generally enjoy children's literature.
I remember my dad reading these to me before bedtime. I've been obsessed with Oz since second grade. This is perhaps my favorite collection of books of all time.
A beautiful and complete collection of Baum's original work.
Really long time in the land of Oz...
A classic A classic that every one should read. It is well worth the time to read. An American Charles Dickins. I hope to read it again.
I read the first book many years ago as and loved it. When I discovered the entire series in a Kindle version I was quite pleased. The rest of the books are as charming as the first. I noticed a few discrepancies but in a book of fairy tales do they really matter? Anyone who hasn't outgrown a children's love for fairytales will be delighted with this book.
RINKITINK IN OZThis feels like Baum is making more an effort with the story and the characters - the reason beingt his was never intended as an Oz book and was written in the early days of the popularity of Oz. The Oz aspect is tagged on to the end of the book, and in some ways could have spoiled the whole tale, but thankfully this is still a pretty good kids book.11.
GLINDA OF OZThis was a pretty good Oz book, and sadly Baum's last - though there is some debate about whether or not he wrote all of it.

Really fun to read so many tales of Oz that I had no idea existed!
The recent movie seems like it deviates from his original themes and intention horribly (he never included romantic love as a plot device in his books because he thought children wouldn't be interested in that, and he always had strong and independent female characters), however I didn't see it.
Baum seems like quite the character.The simple wholesome fun and length of each of the tales would make them perfect to read aloud to a child, I would imagine.
Reading one of these every few books, It took me almost two years to finish the series.
I didn't love every book, and one, The Emerald City of Oz, took some effort to finish because I kept stepping away from the story and asking myself whether Baum was furthering a political agenda.
There was a matter-of-factness about it that lends credence to the idea it was not written by Baum, but is instead is the first book outside the original canon.
Reading these books was time well spent.
And I got to meet H.
