https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6372680-aunt-dimity-s-death
I always look forward to her new release with some anxiety, because apparently book sales are down and there was a question prior to her Deep Blue See book (I believe it was that one), that it may get dropped from being published.
They are well written and all her books come with a great recipe in the back that relate to some character in the story.Most of the stories take place in England, the main character an American woman named Lori who finds help in her adventures from a "ghost" she calls Aund Dimity who communicates to her through a blue journal.
There are few books that are so sweet, so perfect, so interminably beautiful.
Reminiscent of L.M. Montgomery, few books have made me as happy as this one has by just being astoundingly brilliant.
If you are expecting a mystery, however, this is NOT the book for you.
It holds the most similarity to, as I said, L.M. Montgomery, or Jane Austen if you really want to stretch.
To view this as a mystery novel is to miss the plot of the novel entirely.
Someone wanting a sweet, light-hearted, supernaturally-tinged, fairy tale-style romance, however, will be overjoyed with what they find in this novel.
It's about a young woman who learns that her late mother and the mysterious Aunt Dimity conspired to leave her a very unusual legacy.
It's more a ghost story and romance than a mystery; sophisticated enough to hold my attention, but there was nothing in it I couldn't listen to when my 5-year-old was in the car (she liked it too!).
I'm glad I listened to it rather than reading it, as it lasted longer that way.
I will probably buy the book to have on hand for "comfort reading", and look forward to reading or listening to the rest of the Aunt Dimity series.
There's no bad guy.I was expecting a traditional murder mystery, something along the lines of Agatha Christie perhaps, because I knew the story was partially set in an English cottage.
But once it became evident that there was no murder mystery in this story, I was disappointed.It's hard for me to judge the book based on the reality versus my expectation.
It's a sweet read and more of a romance than a mystery, but it doesn't even have passion in the romance.
I doubt that I'll be reading any more books in this series.
A thoroughly enjoyable cosy mystery although I was a little perplexed as to how this would work as the main character apparently dies in the first book of the series.
Aunt Dimity was a lifelong friend and correspondent with Ruth, Lori's mother.
The two ladies met in London during WWI and after Ruth returned to America the pair kept up a profuse correspondence until their deaths within a short time of each other.Lori finds herself with little money, grieving for her mother and in need of a friend when she receives a letter from William Willis & Son solicitors.
I award four stars to many wonderful books, so there is a distinction from outrageously special ones.
“Aunt Dimity's Death” was excellent from start to finish and I thank Nancy Atherton for creating it.
Every turn surprises you and there are no clichés.It is enormously original when a mystery isn’t a murder!
When our downtrodden protagonist meets about a will at a mansion, ‘Lori’ isn’t handed a cigar and a deed to land, nor does she encounter snobs.
Warm, impeccably-mannered men are eager to meet her.
Similar to Lyn Hamilton, Nancy describes points of interest but stays abreast of key information and action.

I got this book from my grandma years and year ago. I super-love it.
I'm really on the fence with this one.On the positive side:This was cute and well-written, and the supporting cast was very appealing.On the negative side:The narrator, who is the main character of the novel, was supposed to be so terrifically special and wonderful that everyone was falling all over themselves to help her and love her.
I might consider reading the next one, since everything related to this one was wrapped up nicely at the end (hmph) so we're bound to have a better story with more emphasis on the supporting characters.
I couldn't finish this book.
I got half way through it and tried to skip to the end, but it was too much for me.
I really HATED Lori, the main character.
She treats Bill (her companion through the story) like crap and is never corrected for it.
And he rolls over like a puppy dog, allows her to treat him horribly and never expects an apology.
I did like Bills character (expect where it came to Lori), I liked Dimity and all the other characters but I just couldn't get past her.
4.5 stars This is one of the few mysteries I've read that didn't involve a murder. Instead, this book, cleverly disguised as a cosy mystery, takes us into a world of adults looking at childhood memories through grown-up eyes. There are memories sweet and difficult, dark secrets, and finally, a love story or two. There's really not so much of a mystery here, but more a righting of past wrongs.This is an unusual and rather understated little book, and one I enjoyed very much.
Gemeinsam mit dem jungen Anwalt Bill fliegt Lori also nach England und gerät in ein großes mysteriöses Abenteuer...Mein Leseeindruck:Ich liebe die Tante Dimity - Bücher!
"Tante Dimity und das geheimnisvolle Erbe" ist der erste Band der inzwischen über 20 Bände umfassenden Reihe.
Um die Reihe zu mögen, muss man sich auf übersinnliche Begebenheiten einlassen können, denn Lori kann mit ihrer verstorbenen Tante Dimity über ein Tagebuch kommunizieren.
Auch der rosa Plüschhase Reginald spielt eine Rolle.Für mich hat das Buch einfach das gewisse Etwas gehabt; ich habe mich gleich wohlfühlen können in der Geschichte und hatte schöne Lesestunden mit Lori und Tante Dimity!
I'm going to go on to read the second one, but I flipped to the end of this one because the romance involved (view spoiler)[a really irritating romance trope.
Bill is more-or-less assisting Lori professionally (his father is dealing with a bequest for her and under the bequest he has to handle the expenses of a trip she has to make under the will).
Meanwhile, his father remarks on how unusual it is for Bill to have shown her particular private magical place, and Lori's boss (thinking they're together) tells Lori how great he thinks Bill is for her and so on and so forth.
Lori Shepard is shocked when she finds out that Aunt Dimity died.
Lori could really use the money so off she goes to Merry Old England to stay in Aunt Dimity's cottage.
With her is Bill Willis the son of her Aunt Dimity's lawyer to help her with the task.
But once at the cottage strange things start to happen.
Could it be Aunt Dimity?
I really enjoyed this book it was a quick fun read.
And although it is the first book in a series it does not leave you hanging and wraps up all the strings very nicely.

I thought this was cliche and immature. And I never really understood why the main character was constantly throwing tantrums and why no one was offended when she did. What is she enraged about? Why does everyone think she's spunky and clever? I thought she was whiny and boring.
All those wonderful stories that have enthralled children for years and will continue to do so for years to come.
These are the children's books I plan on keeping forever and as soon as I can find and buy her books I think Aunt Dimity will join them.The amazing whimsicalness in thid story is beautiful, but it is also deep and covers Important life choices and thoughts.
I think this is the first time I've ever jumped into a series with such gusto in a long time and I can't wait to continue reading.
Review originally published in a post on summer books at The Bookwyrm's Hoard.Aunt Dimity's Death: A mystery without a murder, a Cinderella tale, an Anglophile’s dream-come-true, and the coziest ghost story I’ve ever read. How can you resist a book which begins:When I learned of Aunt Dimity’s death, I was stunned. Not because she was dead, but because I had never known she was alive.Maybe I should explain.What follows is one of my all-time favorite comfort reads.FCC disclosure: I've owned this book for years.
This was sweet, but not the mystery novel I was expecting. It's more a romance and a ghost story than a mystery (and there is no murder, if you require that in a cozy mystery). I wasn't very fond of Lori, who is kind of a pill the whole time, nor of Bill, who was rather annoying and too quickly spotted as the intended love interest, but Aunt Dimity was a great character and the letter-writing friendship she had with Lori's mother was the absolute best thing.
The novel’s low-key blend of a ghost story, a love story, and a bit of mystery was sweet, funny, and cozy.Besides the premise, what I found hard to believe in this book were the lawyers.
This book lacks the credits page.
You know the page that usually comes right after the title page, with all the publisher’s information and the copyright and the year of publication.
I think this book was from a defective print run, or maybe it was a single defective copy and it wasn’t supposed to end up in a library, but for some reason it did.
Its lack of information is almost as incredible as the ghost and the lawyers.
First of all the main character has a great name!
I enjoyed the style of writing and getting to know the characters.Lori has know Aunt Dimity her entire life.
Her stories lulled her to sleep as her mother shared them with her at bedtime.
Lori never realized that Aunt Dimity was a real person until she was contacted by a lawyer and told that she was mentioned in the will of a Dimity Westwood.
Why didn't her mother mention the story character was a real person.I hope the rest in the series are just as good as this one.
There isn't much of a mystery here, most of it lies with uncovering some secrets of the past, but I still very much enjoyed this book. It was more a story of the power of love & forgiveness over anger & fear than a whodunit type mystery. It's also a bit of a fairy tale complete with fairy godmother type benefactor & a sweet romance. I think now that Lori is set up in this manner the other books in the series are more traditional mysteries with Aunt Dimity's ghost being helpful.
The cosiest of cosy mysteries. The setting and the characters were all exceedingly charming, and that was the problem, really. Any character who was the slightest bit unpleasant was swiftly and effectively dealt with, and I have experienced more dramatic tension from drinking a weak and milky cup of tea. It was a very sweet book, but (and I say this as a vegetarian) I generally prefer a little more meat to my mysteries.
Just when a mystery element came in this one, it started hocus poscus nonsense with the aunt writing stuff from the beyond or whatever. I can't deal with silly stuff like that. I can't take it seriously. Just a waste of time, so gave it up a little over half way. If superstitious nonsense is your thing, you can have it.
This is such a delightful story!
I don't think Atherton can claim the honor of starting the cozy mystery subgenre, but it certainly gave it a lot of popularity!I purchased a copy because I was pretty sure I'd want to keep it and reread, and I'm right.
I read this first in the 1990s while at Balboa Branch library, but was too busy to keep up with the series.
Now I want to read them all in order.
It is a charming story!
I recommend it to romance readers (I'm looking at you June), as well as mystery readers or readers who want to get a positive look at life.

I really enjoyed this first book in the Aunt Dimity Mystery series. I loved the MCs Lori and Bill, and how they reached their HEA with the help of Aunt Dimity's ghost. I also enjoyed them solving the mystery together.
He is utterly devoted from the get-go, and perfect in every way (Atherton makes him adorably unathletic, as if this makes him believable), and our heroine, who is well educated, pretty, and a size eight (I don't recall ever being provided with a character's clothing size before), has only to overcome some minimal trust and self-confidence issues, and true love and a delightful, jet-setting life are hers.
, 3, first, so it’s easy to see that Atherton is introducing the series characters and providing a thorough grounding in Lori’s mother’s past as well as background on Aunt Dimity.
I liked her idea of Chocolate Chip Tuesday!It’s all quite mild and with a lovely ending — the truth of why that month was necessary for Lori to find her way.So sit down with a nice hot cuppa tea and some brown bread…The StoryDivorced, jobless, penniless, it’s an unexpected gift from heaven when Lori receives the missive from a law firm.All she must do is write an introduction to a book of Aunt Dimity’s stories that will be shared with the world.
Will as her companion is sweet and especially likeable toward the end, but not enough 'sides' of his personality are explored to create a in-depth characterization.As endearing as the characters of Lori and Aunt Dimity are, the story sadly lacked a lot of spark.
Her view of her mother was a little unrealistic, and while interesting it just wasn't enough to fill in all those pages and make up for the lack of suspense elsewhere.Aunt Dimity herself was a delightful character, almost clairvoyant, especially toward the end when Will tells his tale and all comes to light.
