https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31372.Payment_in_Blood
UPDATE 2/13/18 ...
marvelous even on re-reading ...
the murders were complicated and the tension maintained throughout ...
but the essence of the story is the way those murders impact EG's continuing characters, and the relationships between those characters ...
Barbara Havers (my favorite) plays a major role in this one.***I read this at least a decade ago, and am re-reading it now to take another look at the outstanding way EG, one of my favorite authors, frames a story.
This comes as I am editing the first half of the sequel to A FLOOD OF EVIL and organizing the scenes for the second half.
Looking to learn from a master.
This is one of a series of novels about Elizabeth George's creation Inspector Lynley and his sidekick Sergeant Havers.
The council-house bred Barbara Havers is an ambivalent character, saddled with an antipathy to all that Lynley stands for combined with a chip on her shoulder.
Add to the mix a doomed romantic liaison and you have an engaging sub-plot.In fact this back-story proved to be more interesting than the main storyline, possibly because the characters were familiar to me from TV dramatisations.
For the first half of the novel at least I found myself viewing the others as rather tiresome minor characters, and the plot to be rather prosaic.
My first audiobook of the year, and immensely enjoyed it.I have read this book earlier, a decade or so ago, but jumbled up in the series, and last year decided to read this police procedural series in order, as the emotional lives of the police and their near and dear ones are given as much importance as the crime and its solution.
This book deals with a closed room murder of a much hated playwriter in a stately mansion turned hotel on a snowy winter night.
..and more murders occur.It was a taut, well.written murder mystery, which was solved impeccably towards the end, but with lots of emotional upheaval.
Rating: 3.875* of fiveThe Book Report: Inspectory Thomas Lynley, aka the eighth Earl of Asherton, is a hard-working man, but even he likes a few days' rest after chasing from pillar to post in solving brutal crimes.
So what does Lynley do?
(I suspect Lynley, were he corporeal, would've worn a small, snarky smile throughout this investigation.)As the investigation proceeds, awful truths come out, lives are ruined, others are altered, and some few are lost; but no one is spared from the terrible cleansing fires of truth.
A final older detective series. I plan on continuing to buy these at HPB when I see one.
Aber man merkt auch, dass sie sich durch die Zusammenarbeit mit Lynley mehr Gedanken macht.Helen ist ja auch wieder mit von der Partie und hat einen sehr schwierigen Stand; aber ich mag sie total gerne, weil sie so eine offene und liebenswerte Art hat!Es gibt wirklich immens viel Ermittlungsarbeit mit Befragungen und komplizierten Verbindungen zwischen den Figuren, aber gerade das hat mich total fasziniert.
I'm now catching up with the earlier novels.This one was certainly compelling enough - lots of intriguing subplots, twists and red herrings - but the faults of the series were amplified and I felt the book lacked the originality which lifts the later books above much of the genre.My biggest peeve with George is that at times she peddles a Theme Park England - a fantasy England which US readers would like to believe exists, but actually doesn't.
Usually there's alot of that setting the scene and going through the complex relationships between the characters but this one pretty much went into the officers going through the events and going back and forth about what could have happened.Alot of people have said they didn't like the fact that there were so many different characters and that they kept losing track who was who.
I didn't like the fact that Havers and Lynley kept having the same discussion again and again.
I did guess the killer very early on so I'm very proud of myself!I didn't like Lynley at all so I'm gonna be a little sceptical about reading further on the series.
3.5 stars.A decent-enough murder mystery that had a couple of twists and turns and kept me guessing until the end.
I did feel like the middle of the novel dragged out a little too much though.
Maybe I'm being overly picky, but I'd probably prefer the novel to just focus on the working relationship between Lynley and Havers - especially seeing as there really wasn't much of a presence from Havers in this sequel.
Hopefully that's something that is rectified in Well-Schooled in Murder.
Good Lord, could a story be any more confusing? • Do all of the characters have to be having affairs with each other (either in this book, or as part of their back stories)?• Do in-laws really have sex with each other as much as they do in this novel? • Do most of these characters have to have 3 or 4 names? I wish the author could have decided whether or not to use their first name, surname, peerage title, or professional title… and then STUCK WITH THAT!If you can keep all these characters strai
Good Lord, could a story be any more confusing?
•	Do all of the characters have to be having affairs with each other (either in this book, or as part of their back stories)?•	Do in-laws really have sex with each other as much as they do in this novel?
•	Do most of these characters have to have 3 or 4 names?
I wish the author could have decided whether or not to use their first name, surname, peerage title, or professional title… and then STUCK WITH THAT!If you can keep all these characters straight than you are smarter than I am.
I was exhausted after trying to muddle my way through this book.
Payment in Blood by Elizabeth George (Inspector Lynley, #2)A band of theatrical performers including a producer as well as an actress hoping to make her comeback in this play written by the successful playwright, Joy Sinclair.
Joy Sinclair announces at their meeting that a new play has been completed and it is to replace the former play.
The playwright, Joy Sinclair, is found dead in her room the following day.
What was it about this new version of the play that caused such an uproar?
Inspector Lynley and his sidekick, DS Barbara Havers, along with forensic specialist Simon St. James are dragooned into taking the case by the upper echelons in Scotland Yard.What George does particularly well is describe the internal emotional worlds of the major characters (Havers and Lynley) as well as the minor but important characters.
Misdirection is often an important feature of effective mystery novels and PAYMENT IN BLOOD is no exception to this rule.Overall, the book is probably 4.5 stars but it deserves rounding up to 5 stars for its impressive execution and emotional impact.
I'm not a huge fan of Elizabeth George, but I always finish every book of hers that I pick up.
This one was actually one of her bests.
The reviews on the back keep comparing George to P.
D. James and though I think such a comparison is ludicrous, this Lynley mystery does read like a watered down James novel.
The problem with this book, as with all George's book in my opinion, is her tendency to descend into cheap, romance fiction.
But this was less of a distraction than usual in this book and didn't overshadow the plot too much.
There were LOTS of characters in this one and it took me a LONG time for the plot to grab me. I will still continue on with the series and am hopeful that the next one will be a better read for me.
As always, Elizabeth George has kept me in the dark about the perpetrator of a series of murders and a brutal beating until the last possible moment, and that’s a good thing.
The strength of her police procedurals are wicked good plots that gallop along, throwing off suspects willy nilly.
The memorable Inspector Lynley, peer of the British realm, investigates the brutal murder of a playwright in a manor house where she was revealing the plot of her latest play for the prospective members of the cast and the play’s director, the Lord of somewhere or other.
This is the second (third?) time I've read this book, and I think it's my favorite Elizabeth George.
I'm really surprised that this was her second novel—it so captures what I think of as her style of storytelling.
It's brutal and bleak, while also being a really fun time.
It's a mashup of a locked room and location-specific mystery novel, populated with George's core characters—Lynley, Havers, St. James and Deborah, Lady Helen—and a deliciously spooky setting in a soon-to-be country hotel.
I kinda wish I could forget it and read it again, which is the highest praise I can give a novel.
This is and entertaining but complicated blend of British police procedural with a traditional British "cozy" mystery setting. Multiple suspects in a country mansion setting. What makes the novel intriguing are the relationships between the characters, particularly between Inspector Lynley and Sargent Havers. and between Lynley and Lady Helen. This will keep the reader guessing till the end. This is not a quick read but one that should be enjoyed at a leisurely pace.
Elizabeth George's writing style andmy taste seem to have made a happy alliance.Looking forward to more books in this series.Narrator Davina Porter never disappoints.Not Clean but not overly detailed.Some Foul Language.
2nd in the Lynley series, which I enjoyed more than the 1st. I warmed a bit more to the characters and their characters!
I am trying to reread this series to read it in sequence. Starting from the beginning helps me make sense of some of the action that takes place in subsequent volumes. In Payment in Blood, Lynley and Havers must discover a killer among a group of theatre professionals whose relationships are tangled. I may have read this previously since I honed in on the culprit pretty quickly. Non the less, it is a mystery filled with interesting characters and swift action. This is a series I hardily recommend!
You will have to read my words in the review of the first book in the series to get my overall enthusiasm for this author.
The setting is mostly an English estate house and the whole book has a bit of an old-time feeling to it.
And English nobility plays a bit of a role in the book.As mysteries go this one ranked pretty well.
It is in the old style of eight or 10 characters snowed in in an old house when the murder takes place.
The strong woman is the second in command in this series and she is and enjoyably strong character.
This book had way to many useless characters, who changed their names, going from titles, to pet names, and last names, then first.
The idea of a playwright changing her play to tell juicy bits about all those at a country house, was fine, but my heavens did anyone stay in their own beds.?
I read only two thirds of this book, and since I wanted to shelve it more than read it, I stopped.
I noticed at the library some of her books are larger than this 400 hundred page snoozer, almost double the size.
“[Murder] contaminates and pollutes, and no life it touches, no matter how tangentially, can ever be the same.”Murder on the Orient Express investigated by Lord Peter Wimsey, with an old Scottish manor house playing the part of the train.
Despite that, or perhaps because of it, the story is dreadfully slow getting out of the station.“One doesn’t throw [shared history] over simply because life gets a little inconvenient now and then.”The edge provided the sparks between Lord Lynley and Sergeant Haley, which commend the introductory story A Great Deliverance, is dulled.
Third, chronologically, and second publication-wise, the Inspector Lynley detective mystery revolves around the aristocratic Detective Inspector Thomas Lynley and his partner, Detective Sergeant Barbara Havers, of Scotland Yard.My TakePayment in Blood involves murders, cover-ups, and suicide amongst a group of theatrical people.The story starts at a country house in Scotland in the middle of winter where the group has planned an initial run-through of a new play, although it proves to be a much newer play than anyone had anticipated.The past of over 20 years has come back to haunt several of our participants and too many motives and too many suspects without a credible bit of evidence make a difficult task for Inspector Lynley and Sergeant Havers.
I have recently read out of order a later book in this series and enjoyed it so I decided to read some of the earlier books.
Payment in Blood is the second in the series.
I enjoyed seeing the development in Lynley and his sidekick/partner Havers.
The references to Christine Keeler and John Profumo were interesting and added to setting by connecting to real life events.Having read a later book in the series first, I can see a big evolution in style for the better from this one.
Payment in Blood reads like a outsider’s version of class strife in Britain.
A very good #2 book in the series. Two murders in Scotland, a suicide/murder in a small town outside London and secret espionage in the upper classes from 1962! Lots going on and all tied together. Inspector Lynley and Detective Havers are on the case. I love Havers and how she interacts with Lynley, love Simon St James and his wife, but Lady Helen I could do without. I was not a fan of hers at all in this book. Hopefully she will redeem herself in the next. I'm definitely hooked on this series and characters. Good crime mystery.
For anyone new to the series, I would highly recommend that you read the first book prior to this one or you will miss out on a significantly large part of what makes the book really good!The Good:The emphasis on personal relationships between the main characters is what ultimately makes this book so incredible.
Upon arriving at the scene, Lynley is taken aback to learn that Lady Helen, a close friend of his, is a possible suspect.
Ultimately, the book ends on a cliff-hanger that ensured I will continue on with the series.The Bad:The mystery itself was a bit overwhelming for me.
Inspector Thomas Lynley is tasked to investigate a death which is pretty close to his roots, his noble peer roots that is.
Included in the company is Lady Helen Clyde, a long time friend of Tommy’s, well, maybe more than a friend, who is involved in a most interesting way.
She doggedly follows the information as Lynley struggles to see beyond his upbringing and his feelings for Helen.So many twists and turns, I had this one solved several times and yet, when I came to the final 20 pages, indeed I was wrong as well.
welcome to inspector lynley and barbara havers into their partnership now for just over one year -like chalk and cheese!lynley is called to scotland in respect of a murder in a hotel which involves a theatre group.
but she is obviously taken with one of the theatre group and this allows him to be fixated, to the detriment of solving the case correctly barbara takes matters into her own hands along with st james to try and steer him back on course.
To my mind, as with the first novel in this series, solving the crime is secondary to the interaction of the characters of Lynley, St. James, Havers and Helen as they all try to dance around awkwardness of the situation and also try to keep Lynley from making a career ending mistake in how he handles this case.
And while at the end of the case, Lynley is berating himself for the mistakes he made in this case, particularly as it relates to Helen, if it hadn't been for his drive to pin the crime on Rhys which made him pursue another angle (which was the true motive behind the murders) perhaps the case might never have been solved at all.
