https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93374.Akira_Vol_4
Compared to the power within you, the total energy of the world is nothing more than a gentle breeze.Man is incapable of seeing past the end of his nose.
It is only when he is afraid that he considers the other world, and then he will gladly sell his soul to whatever god or buddha offers him hope.In reality, we are all part of the flow of the cosmic stream.
Yet, even as the stream sweeps them along they possess one power capable of stopping the stream.
When this power is used, the stream will stop for an instant...
This shit is epic.
The first part of volume four, despite a tense cat-and-mouse fugitive type of action set in a post-postapocalyptic world, felt flat and a bit of a drag.
The sense of vagueness that radiates around the numbered people irritiates me sometimes (so I am glad that 19 gave a bit of backstory about them).
Aside from Tetsuo who got a cringy sexy time with three girls and got trippy high as f*ck hallucinations, the others, even Akira himself didn't do anything.Chiyoko.
By all means, do not mess with this woman.Chiyoko, that fine brute deserves a standing ovation in what she did in this book.
WOW 👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼
If there is one thing when it comes to anime, people will always remember Akira.
When it comes to manga, this is a one read people should invested on.
I love Akira personally because of its sheer epic story of man versus Godhood and any thing that writes about power, this is the book people of all reader types should read.
I love Akira ever since its anime was released in 1989.
Not many authors or creators these days are bold enough to write some thing this good and this is one of the best 1200 over pages I have ever read.
Where did the women go?
Where did the women go?
I see the rags and despondency.
How did anyone survive?
And why did some survive with suits intact while others in rags?
And women a rarity?
Now, of course there is Kei. She's awesome.
The movie did a fantastic job of showing the rebuilding of Tetsuo's arm - which the book doesn't do!
Instead, it just shows the mechanical arm and not the rebuilding.
I have to say, it's a quite a bit more haunting and cool showing only the rebuilt arm and not the rebuilding from the rubble.
So awesome!
Intense!
Just one word, epic. Now I see why people keep raving about this manga.
La historia se toma un descanso para mostrar las repercusiones del final del tomo 3, por lo que la primera parte es medio lenta, aunque sigue siendo interesante. La segunda parte es lo usual: violencia, sangre y descontrol. Otomo si que sabe como terminar un tomo, vamos a ver que pasa en el quinto.
Either way, a lot of stuff happens, whether it's the creation of the Great Tokyo Empire that follows the lead of our eponymous character Akira as supreme ruler (which I personally think is hilarious because Akira is still a child with the most petulant look on his face all the time.
There is still a decent amount of showing within that telling sequence however.The badasses of the manga series continue to be Kei, my homegirl, and Chiyoko (man, this lady is FIERCE).
(And I read about half of the Marvel/Epic color version, *many* years ago.) I decided today that it was finally time to finish reading the Dark Horse volumes, which have been sitting on my shelf for quite a while.I was afraid I would have no clue what was going on, since I finished volume 3 so long ago.
But there's a recap page, and volume 4 is a good place to pick up the story.I remember being somewhat exhausted with Akira after finishing volume 3.
The end of Volume 3 and the beginning of Volume 4 is where the manga and the anime make a definite split.
Having recently watched the anime, I'm struggling to not judge it too harshly for what had to have been really difficult changes.
That they managed to fit a 6 volume series into a 2-hour film is amazing but certain points in the film that seemed a little strange the first several times I watched Akira suddenly have become these significant plot points that either should've been scrapped entirely or changed significantly so that they wouldn't draw undue attention to themselves.
La historia se está poniendo cada vez más ominosa, y personajes que ya eran despreciables siguen cayendo más y más bajo. El arte de Otomo captura perfectamente la desolación de los parajes a los que nos transporta y en definitiva, Chiyoko es una BAMF. Como en los tomos anteriores, el final te deja con ganas de más.
Because of the new art, improved plot, and enhanced characters Katsuhiro Otomo’s Akira manages to top each volume before it.
With the new slate from Akira pretty much blowing up everything we knew from the previous books help rewrite the story and all of its flaw, but by far the most significant change was Kaneda not appearing throughout the book like he usually does.
I enjoyed reading about Kei’s adventure in this new environment as she tries to survive yet at the same time work to solve the issue of Akira and Tetsuo.
Christian Ragnacci - Akira 4 Book ReviewA Story of Excitement, Development and Intensity! Akira: Volume 4 is no doubt a great story. There’s always something interesting going on, and I love how the characters are always changing. The book highlights the idea that not everything is easy, and some situations actually have stakes where things can go horribly wrong. Akira 4 is well planned out and sets up a lot of interesting mysteries for the future. I read the first three books, and this one is d
Toward the beginning of the story, in Volume 1, the Colonel was one character who seemed like an evil, limitless, cold military leader who wanted to trap and control Akira.
I strongly recommend this book particularly, and it really gets more in depth with the progression of the characters - Kaneda, Kei, the Colonel, Miyako, Tetsuo and more.
There are many great themes and messages in this story, and it’s easy to really feel and understand the feelings of the characters.
It’s a great book, and I most definitely recommend it to everyone!
A Brilliant Turning Point in the Series “You are now prisoners of the empire. Your fate is in the hands of the  Great Lord Akira! ” (Otomo 11). With this one line in the novel’s beginning, Katsuhiro Otomo reveals the premise of Akira 4 and entices the reader to discover the story’s future after the baffling events of Akira 3. Since I would hate to spoil a major story event, I will simply state that Akira 4 takes place in a ‘post-post-apocalyptic’ environment. With this setting as the book’s fou
With this one line in the novel’s beginning, Katsuhiro Otomo reveals the premise of Akira 4 and entices the reader to discover the story’s future after the baffling events of Akira 3.
With this setting as the book’s foundation, Otomo could have easily failed to create an engrossing story by making Neo-Tokyo’s inhabitants unbelievable and two-dimensional.
However, the characters of Akira 4 feel genuine and true to life, which helps make it more memorable than its predecessors.
Katsuhiro Otomo always shows another side of the story from another character’s perspective, or he reveals another side of a character he already introduced.
Near the end of the volume 3 we see Akira show off his power by leveling Neo-Tokyo, just like what happened during in the past.
In Volume 4, we pick up a little while after, where we see the people of Tokyo divided in 2 factions.
One faction, “Great Tokyo Empire” is ruled by the little boy Akira and his maniacal assistant Tetsuo.
Then the other faction who is ruled by the mysterious Miyoko, with her also having many followers worship her.
With being a little kid, Akira (in the volume), seems to mentally mess with Tetsuo in some parts.
However the movie is condensed for characterization’s sake, and leaves out certain details that made the plot make more sense in the manga.Otomo loves both setting and action, as both are illustrated throughout the manga with care and prowess.
The art never looks to bedazzle you, but when Otomo wants to express the hugeness of a scene and the breadth of every event, it pulls off a sense of colossal dread that makes the story altogether incredibly memorable, terrifying, and human.The plot of the manga is a deeply engaging stream of events that grabs you by the shirt collar and never really lets go.
4.5/5 stars, for a key reason: this volume depicts fairly graphic and savage physical and implied sexual violence.
I couldn't get through the pages fast enough!Also, despite this volume showing all the savagery of the males (they don't deserve to be called men), Otomo spends a lot of time with the heroic women who are really carrying the plot in this volume.
I'm also enjoying the development of other characters who at first may have been seen as villains but are grayer now.
It's for the action and character development that it gets 5 stars.
But at some point a switch flips, the story suddenly gets a hold of its tone and pace, and the book turns into an adventure.
With each turn of the page, the book goes faster.
The story flies by, first two panels at a time, then two pages at a time, and then twenty pages at a time.
Suddenly the book is done, and you find yourself starving for more.
At this point, it makes me a bit sad to know that I have only two volumes remaining in AKIRA.
These are some of the most incredible graphic novels I've ever read in my life.
If you are looking for something that contains depth of character, well developed storyline, incredible imagination, and spectacular art, you've found it.
Akira pulls no punches and is not interested in playing it safe - it'll grip you from start to finish and have you itching for more.
I was so excited to read the next one that I couldn't wait to get my hands on it.
Because my local library at the time had a waiting list for them, it forced me to be patient.
This is how I would advise you read them - in chunks.
A little better than the last three volumes. The highlight of this volume for me was Kei and Chiyoko. These ladies went full badass, the action being much better and more impactful as well. I also like the new setting, similar to Fist of the North Star.However, the story and characterization still feels pretty weak. I find myself having trouble caring about what happens with the plot and characters since they feel so barebones at times. The action is epic, but the vagueness of everything else is a bit irritating.
Why am I still reading these when they aren't really my taste? This volume had far too much violence including rape for my taste and yet again I found myself not quite following what was going on, possibly added to by it being quite a while since I’d read the last one. Yet to decide if I’ll check out the final two volumes.
Estuve cerca de ponerle 4 estrellas, pero el final es tan épico y es tanta la recompensa que sostiene la perfección del manga completo hasta ahora. Aunque es una narración de hechos un poco más lenta y más política que los tomos anteriores al mismo tiempo presenta bastante más violencia, sin dejar de lado la construcción de personajes, lo cual se agradece.
Wow, this story took a bit of a turn. Jumping forward some in time, this has now turned into a post apocalyptic story, with gun fights thru ruined streets, refugees and ruffians everywhere. I am particularly interested in how different this is turning from the movie Akira. Tetsuo seems to be having a much larger and more interesting story arc!
It's getting way more confusing, but still amazing. Akira has become the Ruler of a new kingdom, ruling in one section of Neo Tokyo. Lady Miyako "ruling" the other section. Chaos has consumed Tokyo, and honestly not sure what happened, but it was amazing.
The first half finally starts to move the overall plot along. Unfortunately the second half devolves into another over-extended action sequence. Still, a much better and more interesting read than the last two volumes.
Intense, metaphysically-enhanced, and politically philosophical entry into an ever-evolving AAA series. Just as nerve-jangling as the previous entries, while pulling the reader onto further volumes of the post-apocalyptic masterpiece.
Quality Akira.
Well worth the read
