https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5815862-the-inimitable-jeeves-vol-1-p-g-wodehouse
True story, I once ended a date because the guy didn’t find P.G. Wodehouse funny.
This was all the proof I needed to conclude he was the human equivalent of a clod of dirt.
It is my belief that the Inimitable Jeeves is Wodehouse at his best.
Boofish Bertie Wooster is the quintessential English twit with Jeeves as his unflappable gentleman’s gentleman.
The two escape from one hapless entanglement to the next in a lost time of jazz music and cocktails, of gentleman’s clubs and formal dressing for dinner, all while driving a pre-war Aston Martin Mark II across an idealized English countryside.
I really enjoyed it. Finally, I've found an interesting and funny book. I was amazed by Jeeve's savvy, Bertie's ability to get into a scrape and by charming and amorous Bingo. I advise everyone to read it. It's unique.
Listening to a Jeeves book as read by Martin Jarvis increases the enjoyment a hundred fold.
I started reading the Jeeves and Wooster stories after reading Father Brown. I do prefer Wodehouse to Chesterton. I had seen some of the Steven Frye and Hugh Laurie series years ago and the stories are all very similar. They make good reading when I am in between novels.
The reader made this fun. Not the usual type of book that I would read or listen to but it's for book club this month and that's why I joined a book club-to be exposed to good books I normally might not know about!
Soothes the soul. Never gets old, despite its age.
I listened to the audio version read by Jonathan Cecil, such a brilliant reader.
He captured each character better than one could imagine them in reading the stories.
This was the first all Jeeves book published in 1923 and titled "Jeeves" in the U.S. Jeeves and Bertie Wooster were first introduced in a book of short stories, "The Man With Two Left Feet" published in 1917 in the UK and 1933 in the U.S. with the same title.
Between the two books was "My Man Jeeves" 1919 only in the UK.
I'd love to get a copy of this book in any condition.
we listened to this on the way down to Rehoboth Beach, and it was excellent. The narrator really made the characters come alive, and it was no coincidence that he portrayed Wooster on stage for a long time. That experienceprobably helped to create the perfect timing and spot-on inflections of thebook. Jeeves and Wooster's relationship pokes fun at the class distinctions of old without condemning them, and the trials and tribulations of Bertie's friend (as well as Aunt Agatha's meddling) suck you in to hear more.
Fantastic! I haven't read these before, but I have seen all of the television episodes, so I was fascinated to see the differences. Besides the order of the stories, one thing I noticed is that the Jeeves and Wooster on the telly are a bit softened from the books, in that they engage my sympathy a bit more easily. Kind of like the difference between the Julie Andrews Mary Poppins and the book.
I never used to like Jeeves and Wooster as much as the ore Wodehouse books but I've finally been won over. The story where Bingo little becomes a communist and denounces Bertie in Hyde Park while wearing a false beard will bear many repeated readings. In that story it is remarkable - for 1923 - how succinctly PGW skewers the posturing self importance of of the dour revolutionaries.
Although I have read this book before, I came across an audio recording featuring Jonathan Cecil who perfectly captures the voices and nuances of Wodehouse' comic dialogues. There is nothing new in the Jeeves and Wooster series, but every chapter sparkles and makes me smile. Delightful every time....
Feudal England at it's most charming, in a reasonably modern setting as well. Perhaps a trip back to London is in order one of these days after all. Can anyone get me into their club for lunch, though?
Very funny & lighthearted.
If you're ever listening to a Jeeves and Wooster book and you can find one read by Martin Jarvis, get it. He does a fantastic job!
Nice and light, and laugh out loud. I'd recommend the audio - the actor did the accents so well.
Amazing but what else could this book be?
Best so far!
