https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51428.Rebel_Angels
AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING AMAZ
Do NOT read this series if you feel like you hate the whole world. Because these three girls—Gemma, Felicity and Ann—will make you want to bang your head against a wall. But please do read it if the combination of silly and serious intrigues you and you feel like losing yourself in a deeply fascinating world-building.
So I emailed a friend today and explained that the only way I could think of to describe this series was to imagine tossing Mean Girls & The Craft (both of the cheesy teen movie persuasion) into a blender with the whole Harry Potter English boarding school concept just to see what comes out. And what results is an addicting, fast-paced story that is difficult to put down. I’m actually a bit shocked by how engrossing this story has become. Libba Bray wields literary red herrings quite masterfully and I was guessing (and gasping) right up until the very end.
Felicity, Ann and Gemma are all dealing with the death of their dear friend Pippa in their own ways.
Back to the point, he tells her that she must go back and bind the magic she let loose in the realms before someone with not-such-great intentions uses it.So when the girls go back they [this is not a spoiler, it is in the description of the book] are beyond excited to see that Pippa is still there and as beautiful as ever.
You see how Pippa feels left out of everything and even less accepted by her dear friend Felicity (you’ll learn more about them in the last book).
This series depends much more on atmosphere and language, which is fitting, as its main theme is illusion.More serious unhappiness with this book can only be expressed with big juicy SPOILERS:(view spoiler)[Miss Moore is evil nooooo (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[dear God couldn't they just leave Ann to be skinned by the singing siren nipping nymphie things (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[NOOOO not the stupid "sexual abuse history" for a young female character yet again (I am not mocking sexual abuse, or the often-brave survivors of it.
I love this book.
I love the entire series.
I was scanning my middle school library's shelves, when I noticed an interesting cover near one of my favorite book series.
I read the back and I thought the plot was interesting.
I mean, I really didn't consider them as some of my favorite books.
I got it, along with a few other books.
I read some of those books first.
I finished it that night and I loved it.
I love this book series.
I love it with all my heart and you should read it.
They are now my favorite books
Series review video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a2qPN...Edit: It's only a few weeks since I read this but I have since finished the series and am lowering my rating of this book from 2 stars to 1 star because the things I found to be problematic were never redeemed and I cannot overlook them.Original review:There were more things I didn't like than I liked, which causes it to fall just below a middle of the road rating.TL;DR - Predictable, run of the mill historical fiction with occasional magical elements and fat shaming, and mishandled self harm and sexual assault.
I was really scared of how this book would turn out because I loved the first book in the series.
And I didn't want any of the characters to die or anything.
But I had to pick this book up because I wanted to know what happens next.
And I am so glad that I picked it up.
“Sometimes we seek that which we are not yet ready to find.”   This book continues off after A Great and Terrible Beauty, it is the second book in the series.
If you haven't heard about it, it's pretty much about a girl named Ge
But I had to pick this book up because I wanted to know what happens next.
After the terrible incident in India, Gemma has been having weird visions and Spence is a school with a lot of mysteries.
Gemma was much stronger in this book but she treated Kartik like trash.
When I was reading, I started talking to myself and I am like there might be a major plot twist but everything leads up to one character.
I can't wait to pick up the next book in this series and see where the story takes me next!
*4.5*At first I was kind of on the fence about it, but the last 100 pages were awesome, and totally captivated me.Loved:-The depth of the relationships between Gemma, Felicity, and Ann. I enjoyed seeing Felicity grow and show a more vulnerable side.
I felt she really matured and stepped up to the plate in the end and I feel more connected to her than I did in the first book.-The love interests.
I went back and forth on who I was rooting for, but I think in the end I have to go with Kartik =]-The mystery and thriller aspects!!
I can't decide which book is better.
Ah but the second is great.
Gemma has the same fire, the character development is as good as it was in the first.
New characters are dark.
My favorite newie?
Nell Hawkins.
Oh and my thoughts on Simon Middleton, handsome, but I'm still praying for a romantic relationship between Gemma and Kartik, more fire, tension, and mystery, who can't love that?
All I can say is that Felicity's, Gemma's and Ann's journey for the temple is a great one.
As good as the first, with a darker edge.
I have to get The Sweet Far Thing.
My brain isn't working.So far I love this series way too much to be healthy.
You know you've got me hooked when I start going all delusional and forget that there is this thing called reality, and that I shouldn't be sitting in bed with my eyes closed trying to picture a door of light.
I really enjoyed how much more we learned about the characters this go 'round.
I liked how we learned more about the girls' families, and their lives outside of Spence.
things below*****Felicity is turning into a very fascinating character.
All of the contrived riddles and guessing games, near death experiences, etc., just didn't do it for me because this story has been drawn-out with other filler stories just to make the book unnecessarily thick.
Just add another meaningless event, like Simon tells Gemma more juicy gossip or take her on a shoplifting spree.
This one wasn't as enthralling as the first book in the trilogy (A Great and Terrible Beauty).
I am sick of Gemma, Felicity, especially Pippa, and even Ann has started to get on my nerves.
I think it's stupid that they keep going in even after everything that happens at the end of RA.
I am not sure if Victorian girls were really that well aware of matters of drugs, sex, and child molesting, but these elements are weaved into the story very skillfully.In spite of the many enjoyable elements of book, there were some that are quite bothersome.
Gemma powers don't really help her in any way in real life, as for magic in the Realms, girls still do not go beyond making themselves pretty and conjuring gems out of leaves.
Hopefully, these aspects of the story will be explored better in the final chapter of this quite enchanting trilogy.
Her London society, however, I found a little wobbly and lacking at certain points, but it still gave the story an enjoyable twist.One thing I do like about this series is that it addresses certain issues that are never really touched on in other books in this genre: Ann's cutting, the racial problem with Kartik and other Indians during this period in British history (I really like that the primary love interest in this series isn't another obnoxious white boy), the (view spoiler)[the abhorrent sexual abuse Felicity suffers.
Strong, fluid characters are really important to me, and this series doesn't really have a lot of them.The plot, too.
I really loved Rebel Angels, much more than A Great and Terrible Beauty.
I really love Gemma, and I think she is pretty damn awesome.
She is intelligent, brave and curious and I think she had some great character development.
The same can be said with Ann and Felicity, and while I sometimes dislike them, I have to admire they are pretty great characters.
Pippa was a character which really surprised me in Rebel Angels and I can't wait to read more of her story.
I thought the world-building was fabulous and it was truly mystical and it was one of the best things in the Gemma Doyle Trilogy.
Felicity has invited Ann to spend it with her family, enabling them to take trips back to the Realms to look for the Temple.Gemma has a new interest to distract her: Simon Middleton, son of a Viscount, a handsome young man who has taken quite a shine to her but whose methods - getting her drunk on absenthe - leave a lot to be desired.
The hideous creatures hunting for them in the Realms are dangerous and terrifying, but so is the opium-den, the treacherous Rakshana who want to make Gemma bind the magic of the Temple to them and then kill her, and an unlocked door to a child's bedroom.The third and final book is not out until Christmas, I hear, but worth waiting for.
Besides the obvious (again with the "Felicity and Ann are my best friends.
Oh, they're being so rude to me, but they're still my best friends, yay!") there was one thing in particular that got me about this book.
(And why did it take Gemma so long to figure that one out?) I understand that Gemma had to figure it out somehow, but couldn't it have happened BEFORE Gemma told her that they knew about anagrams?
I just don't understand.
Not before Gemma took her to the realms, and she could have figured it out before that if she wasn't so stupid.
The book really wasn't that bad.
Book Name: Rebel AngelsAuthor/s: Libba BrayLanguage EnglishOriginal Title:Rebel AngelsPublisher, year: Simon and Schuster, 2007Page total:548Date Read: june 27-28Genre/s: YA, fantasy, paranormal, historical fictionFirst line of Book:"Herein lies the faithful and true account of my last sixty days, by Kartik, brother of Amar, loyal son of the Rakshana, and of the strange visitation I received that has left me wary on this cold English night."Review: This is a relatively good sequel to A GREAT AND TERRIBLE BEAUTY.It's Christmas time and Gemma, Felicity and Ann go to London to spend it with their families.
I thought the story was compelling, but if you're looking for a book appropriate for you teenage girls I didn't think this was it.
I really wanted to like these books, but after the insertion on homosexuality (hinted at in the first book, and is clear in the third book).
I think the reason is because the author wants teenagers to take the opinion it isn't wrong.
If you agree it isn't wrong you won't have a problem with this.
I don't believe in persecuting homosexuals but I do believe it is wrong.
That's easy: Balls.Not THOSE kinds of balls.
These kinds:Maybe because all those par-tays made the pace of the novel seem faster and the story more compelling.
But, also, we get to see Gemma interact with her family and the snooty-high-society all around her.
This makes for some excellent characterization of both the major and secondary characters.Would this series have been able to sustain itself without a love-triangle?
I guess you're here to try to coax our Gemma out of The Realms.
(Victorian date rape?) I think we'll take Kartik any day, thanks.Meanwhile, is Felicity Worthington the best character in this series, or is it just me?
I'm surprised she did not see it coming! If you have read my review of the first book, you'd see at how I might be inconsistent with it. With a really good prose [this time], this is an excellent follow up of the first book.It's good seeing the development of the characters, although I still think they are a hateful bunch. But it was still nice enough to make me want to read the last book in the series.!
So far I'm loving this series. This book was quicker paced than the first one and goes into more detail about the realms. Makes you think you know things but then it turns out you're wrong. Highly recommend
A fascinating and exciting sequel.
Check out my video review: http://www.youtube.com/user/thereadab...
finished this book after many days of putting it off! i did enjoy this book!
This series is simply sweet droplets of bliss. I was overjoyed the entirety of reading this. These girls and their personalities were even more adored than the first book. READ THESE BOOKS EVERYONE! You won’t be disappointed, for they are lovely. ❤️
I think we may have a case of an author who decided she wanted to make absolutely certain that her books had a broader social conscience and weren't "just fluffy teen fiction," so she threw in every issue she could think of that might affect Victorian society and/or modern teen girls.
I really wanted to know what was going to happen with the main plot, but skimmed more and more of the scenes that didn't take place in the realms or relate directly to the magic.I'm trying to be fair and say whether I think the book is objectively flawed or just happened to go in a direction I personally didn't care for, and I think it's a bit of both.
But Circe's agents are closing in, hunting Gemma and a way to claim the magic of the realms for the dark spirits.
Hunted and harried on all sides, Gemma must discover Circe's true identity, find her own path and bind the magic of the realms before all is lost.As with the first book in this series, Rebel Angels is characterized by vivid descriptions, a rousing cast of characters and a plot that twists tighter and tighter with plenty of action.
The descriptions are full and beautiful, bringing Gemma's world and the realms to life.
That night I breezed through the entire book.
After the last past, I put it down and felt thoroughly satisfied.Gemma and the Powerpuff girls come back at the same place, but at Christmas time.
Thankfully, the story does not take place at school.
Exciting!I suppose a lot of readers would see that the most exciting bit is the appearance of Circe.
The real meaty bits here are when the girls come face to face with their personal demons.
The book did a wonderful job.
Although I will not spoil you, I wish that someone facing the same issues with read this book.
4.5/5 stars.Okay, so I reread the first book in this trilogy a few months ago.
So I thought I'd continue the series and read this book for the first time!I really like the first book so I was really hoping that this book wouldn't disappoint and it didn't!
She's so kick ass and brave, I really like her.
I'm really liking where this series is going, the twists and turns make me want to read the last book straight away.
Reading about Gemma being a proper lady in London and then seeing her in the Realms kicking arse was just so great.
