https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43351.The_Lottery_Winner
This is tied with A Slice of Murder as the weakest rated book to get 5 stars from me.
While others belittled and hated this book, I found great things of value in it.It's a book of short stories, which I didn't know until the first mystery was elucidated.
Not all short stories were equally good.
But they all merited 4 or 5 stars.
I thought they were that good.The main character was Alvirah Meehan, an astute old lady with an outdated name.
She wants to solve mysteries like Hercule Poirot.
I found her appearances totally worth following.
Wonderful little book, this.
The Lottery Winner is made up of 6 short stories that revolve around lottery winners Willy and Alvirah Meehan.
I would suggest reading this novel fairly soon after Weep No More, My Lady since Alvirah refers to her time in that novel and solving the mystery.
The story was just about Alvirah saving Willy.
A Clean Sweep- Willy and Alvirah want to help Nelly Monahan get her lottery winnings back from her ex-husband.
This story was all about getting the husband to admit on tape that he took the winnings.
Bye, Bye Bunting- A neighbour's baby gets kidnapped from the hospital- No mystery at all.
It was more like a collection of stories than a novel. Also, the main character suddenly developed super crime solving powers after winning the lottery, a bit far fetched. It would have been much easier to read if it flowed better, it just jumped from one story to the next.
The saving grace of this book and the short stories, was the characters, I liked Alvirah and Willy, and his Nun sisters, and other characters in the book. But I like my mysteries to be more of a mystery.
Este nuevo cambio de aire por parte de la escritora me ha sorprendido gratamente, pues desde el principio hasta el fin me ha captado totalmente la atención, devorando sus páginas en el poco tiempo libre que tenía.Lo bueno de esta obra es que se presenta una serie de casos que si bien la tiene que resolver este matrimonio de detectives aficionados, permite al lector poder resolver por sí mismo, gracias a los datos que se dan a lo largo de la novela.
Es de agradecer, ya que muchos autores adolecen de ese defecto de ocultar información a los lectores y que mágicamente aparece al final del libro, cuando se resuelve el misterio.En fin, lo recomiendo.
This is a collection of short mystery stories all starring the amateur sleuth, Alvirah Meehan, a former maid, instantly turned lottery millionaire. At first, I liked the idea of short mysteries, but all the suspense from Clark's novels is deleted from these "cases". In fact, in most of the stories, it is obvious who the murderer is, the only mystery is how Alvirah will get them to confess. Published in 1994, Alvirah uses the "high tech" recording device located in her sunburst pin. Unfortunately, the mysteries, like the technology, are outdated and boring in today's day and age.
It was an entertaining book but I was annoyed by the fact that since winning the lottery Alvirah was so worried about her precious image and fitting in with rich people etc. It seemed a bit unlike her character since she has such a kind heart. And taking out everything that had to do with that and the Cypress Point Spa (for the rich and famous) would not have hurt the stories. It was a collection of mystery/crime stories that Alvirah ends up solving. It's an easy quick and light read.
Lot of fun.An Alvirah & Willy mystery; About an older couple; she was a cleaning lady & her husband was a plumber; they won a large lottery, and she started spending her time between traveling & going to spas, & by solving murder mysteries. Her husband spent his time taking care of her & being sure she stayed out of trouble.
what a great stories there is 4-5 stories and diffent stradigies they are alll great
Like any collection of shorter stories this book had both stronger and weaker elements, but overall  The Lottery Winner  is a  3.5 star  novel detailing the adventures of Alvirah and Willy Meehan.First appearing in  Weep No More My Lady  Alvirah and her husband had been a cleaning woman and plumber respectively before winning a 40 Million dollar lottery jackpot.
She does keep her starburst pin though and her recordings play a big role in her solving the crimes.All of the six included stories were interesting but a few were a bit lack luster.
Collection of stories featuring Alvirah, the woman who won the lottery in Weep No More. In that book she started falling into crime scenes beginning with the Cypress Spa and that seems to have spurred her on into being an amateur sleuth. Stories are kind of amateurish and easy to figure out who committed the crime, but fun to read.
This book is a group of short stories following the adventures of Willy & Alvirah Meehan from "Weep No More, My Lady". Each story is a mini mystery to sort out. A couple of the stories would make a good book.Willy & Alvirah Meehan are really loveable characters & I enjoy all the trouble they get themselves into.
I have mixed feelings about this book. It's a collection of short stories, some better than others. I do like Alvirah and Willy as characters but, her sudden detective abilities and her habit of being nosy are a bit ridiculous. Perhaps I would have enjoyed it more if it was just one story that could have been better developed than the collection of short ones.
I didn't realize this book was a compilation of short stories until I began reading it. While I prefer a full-length novel, this was a delightful read and I did enjoy it. It was just what I needed after reading so many mysteries and thrillers.
Enjoyable from start to finish. Alvirah and Willy (The Lottery Winners) experience a variety of challenging situations. I love the short story format. Alvirah and Willy are so entertaining and are great case solvers. Highly entertaining stories.
Alvira ' Short StoriesLottery winners Alvira and her husband Willy stumble onto and solve a series of mysteries in each story. Their lives as cleaning woman and p!umber help them, although they're now immensely rich and living a completely different lifestyle. Cutely done read.
Almost rated it a '2', since it is written for a sixth grader, however, her plots were very interesting and well planned through which make it a good read. There are several short stories throughout this book.
This is a series of short stories about a working class couple that won the New York State Lottery and became millionaires. They are a cute couple and definitely good for a few laughs. Alvirah is pretty sharp and is good at solving mysteries. This book was okay but nothing exciting.
After all the deep, serious, true books I have read lately, this was a fun, refreshing book. It's a book full of several cozy mysteries. The characters are lively and outrageous.
Great bookThis is a great book and great characters. I enjoyed reading this book of short stories very much. I recommend it.
Was surprised to find this was a collection of short stories about the intrepid lottery winners. Very enjoyable diversion.
Enjoyed Alvirah's mysterious adventures and was able to follow train of thought on the who done it? angle.. loved it!
Good murder mystery.
So so The book seems to be very repetitive. It is really a series of short stories which all have the same theme.
Be careful what you wish for!!!!
I enjoyed these short stories featuring the Meehans! They are so fun!
Light reading and mildly entertaining. Similar to the other, complete novels featuring the same characters.
Short storiesInteresting stories, but I was expecting another great book with fascinating characters quite a few chapters longer. Good book for airplane trips - short trips
If you enjoy short stories that you can read and solve quickly this is the book for you.
I really enjoyed these short stories by Mary Higgins Clark. I love a good mystery and she really knows how to write them in this book of short stories. Highly recommended.
