https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3985.The_Amazing_Adventures_of_Kavalier_Clay
Michael Chabon and Ayelet Waldman are drinking Peet's coffee and eating zampanos in front of the Cheeseboard on Shattuck Avenue.MC: Ayelet, I'm trying to think of a new idea for a novel.
There have been so very many novels written over the years, it's hard to come up with something new that's never been done before....MC: Yeah, I need an idea that's totally original.....
No one's ever written a book like that before!MC: You know what else??AW: Don't tell me -- no, no, do!
Oh Michael, do you think the world is ready for a novel like that?
Perhaps you need reminding of it.Our mission statement :We undertake to manufacture by carbon neutral means the world’s greatest sprockets and to work in harmonic partnership with our friends, colleagues and customers to ensure Michael Chabon’s The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay is recognised throughout the English speaking world as the Great American Novel”“Wow, I had never seen that last bit!”“It was revised in 2000 when Mr Chabon published the novel.”“Well, I’m not sure I like the drift of this discussion.
Prosecutor : Mr Bryant, Michael Chabon’s The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay is a magical novel.
In many ways attempting to review this novel is like thinking back through an illusionist or an escape artist’s performance of his trick and trying to work out exactly how he did it.
Its mesmerising power is all in the vitality and hightide imaginative reach of its story and the compelling moving humanity of its two main characters, Josef Kavalier and his American cousin Sam Clay.
(Sam has a secret he is trying to escape from.) There’s barely a single female character in this novel for 200 pages.
Aaron and I are starting a club for people who hated this boring, boring book. Anyone want to join?
Every sentence is constructed with care & CRAFT.The novel begins by grabbing the reader by the lapels to show how the bonds between cousin geniuses who build an empire out of superhero comics unravel.
There are collisions with history: a legacy left from Houdini is taken up by the ambitious young Josef Kavalier, Dali's life is saved by Kavalier, and Orson Welles inspires Clay to draw on his masterpiece "Citizen Kane" to change the very way storytelling is depicted in the comics.
This is a petition, very headstrong and brilliant, to elevate the craft of comic books into a substantial art form.
Joe and Sam create a group of comic characters including The Escapist, a magician and escape artist who is also endowed with super strength by an ancient secret society to help free the oppressed.
Joe often feels that he’s wasting his time with war looming and his family trapped in Europe, but it’s giving him the money he needs to try and get them out so he takes out his frustration by having The Escapist beating the Nazis in the pages of the comic book.The first half of the book is the portion that I really love.
While being a fun and interesting story, K&C does not feature deep character development and was IMHO about 100 pages too long.
The descriptions of New York in the 30s, 40s and 50s was nice and the comics Chabon invented to tell the story were very creative.
There is a bit of sentimentality here, but not too much and it was interesting to read this book just after Roth's I Married a Communist as the commission at the end was inspired by the same inquisitorial period of the 50s.
As were the words: "I LOVE that book.
That book is GREAT." Not just how good it was, or skilled writing (though those things are also very true), but just how in love with it they were.
And now I know why!I read it in two short spurts, covering about three days each, and I was done.
He sort of dealt with it, but very quickly, and it felt like after hundreds of pages of careful development he was rushing to bring it to a close.
It's a love letter to escapism in general, but to the comic book industry and superheroes in general.
In The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay, Chabon asks one of the oldest questions asked in stories, and gives us the oldest answer.
It’s the one asked by ever since man started telling stories: What is a hero?
And his answer is, “It’s not the guy who goes out there with fisty cuffs and guns blazing.
That’s the hero.” He’s taken all the tropes of super hero comic books, but in the end it’s not the guy with the magic, the secret lair, the girl, and the gun that’s his hero.
I love that it’s about comic books, and superheroes, and story-telling.
After Joe's arrival in New York City, nothing more is made of his Czechness and he doesn't even experience any struggle with adaptation to the new country, typical for new immigrants - although he was not happy about leaving Prague for "unimaginable Brooklyn" he adapts to the U.S. literally overnight, and is ready for enormous success the next day - making the character look flat and lifeless.Last year I've read David Benioff's enormously entertaining book titled City of Thieves (reviewed here), set in Leningrad during the German occupation - the deadliest siege in history.
Chabon can flat out compose sentences.
A Jungian analysis holds that all the people in your dreams are simply fractions of your own persona.
A gifted writer, a fascinating mind, needs a deeper theme.
I found his brilliance frustrating, getting constantly lost in the wonderful sentences and not ever finding myself in the forest of the story.
I hope Chabon finds a theme worthy of his words.
I find in the postmodern, good writers wreak havoc among real lives in order to construct a profitable memoir.
Real people ought not to be autopsied alive for the sake of an extended fiction.
The true magic of this broken world lay in the ability of the things it contained to vanish, to become so thoroughly lost, that they might never have existed in the first place."Joe Kavalier is an amateur magician living in Czechoslovakia during the rise of Hitler.
Even the world of comic books didn’t turn me off… at least not right away.
The world of comic book publishers, editors and marketing was interesting.
I would start to lose interest as the narrative would jump from the real life story of Joe and Sammy to that of their comic book characters.
I recognize his talent, his love for the comics and for his characters.
I hated this book. For me the characters were not only unlikeable but lifeless. The whole thing was contrived and pretentious and painful to read from start to finish. I am dumbfounded by people's enthusiasm for this book. Dumbfounded.
The humor became forced, the situations that Chabon put his characters in brought on the head shaking and eye rolling that usually accompanies the transition from the real to the surreal and by two thirds of the way through this book it became a slog and I began to just not care about any of it and my thoughts turned to Skyrim or Fallout New Vegas.
I like historical fiction, so I did enjoy the name dropping and the ability Chabon has in re-creating the look and feel of the times, but it just wasn’t enough to push this book beyond three stars.
Rumor has it that Chabon originally wanted to call this "the Pretty Good, Amazing at the Beginning but Considerably Less Interesting as Our Heroes Devolve Into Cartoon Caricatures and the Reader's Suspension of Disbelief Vanishes Entirely (Not to Mention the Wonky Prose), So in Short, Overlong, At First Pretty Cool but Then Poorly Characterized, and Unevenly Written Adventures of Kavalier and Clay," but the publishing companies vetoed it, so "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay" it is.
:)In reality, it really is an awesomely well-rounded character novel set very firmly in the early comics industry and it made the giddy fan-boy in me go all blubbery.
The second best part of the text was the absolutely deep drill down in the characters and the time and places, from before WWII, the social mixes and prejudices and pressures, the boom of the comics industry and how it affected the war, and especially Kavalier's own little crusade to get his Jewish family out of Germany's hands.
It really affected the comics, as you may guess.But later on, even after joining the war and building families, it's even better because of Rosa.
I read this book a couple of years ago because it has been hyped up for years, here are a few of my observations:- I found this in the Young Adult section of my Library, but I would not classify this as Young Adult at all.
It makes me wonder how they determine that.- I would say that I am fifty-fifty on the hype.
But, definite points for being unique!- Overall assessment.
Since it is such a different type of story, I am not even sure what I could compare it to to try and make a recommendation.
Good, but I did not love it. Nice theming with creating life from clay, and escaping, but I did not find the characters engaging enough. Good payload on early days of comics. .
Anyway, the story of Kavalier and Clay is one of family, loss, and self-discovery.Joe Kavalier and Sammy Clay are comic artists in New York City before, during, and after American involvement in World War 2.
His success in America furthers that guilt because it should be something he shares with his family and can't even fight them as an American until Pearl Harbor.His partner and cousin, Sam, on the other hand, supports Kavalier's fight but never feels the same burden as Joe who is not just trying to fight for and save the Jewish people, but specifically his family.
The comic books and their heroes represent not only a decent wage and but a shift towards the American dream for Kavalier and Clay who quickly find that with fame comes responsibility.
A conduit for the anti-Hitler message the Kavlier and Clay hero "The Escapist" represents a force for good but is also symbolic of Joe's escape from Europe.The shiny potential for happiness created by Kavalier and Clay quickly becoming the embodiment of the 1930s American dream was great but obviously, like life, things can't always be great for long and this is when the book began to take a bit of a faster-than-a-speeding-bullet style nose dive.
Laughing....I think this is about the 3rd time -my review has disappeared for this book.
I read Michael's book when it was first released.
I didn't move for days --its one of the most engaging -exciting fun books I've ever read.
There aren't other books that one can compare this too.The characters are to love..........
(she doesn't dish them out as easy as I do).To 'not' read this book --where I come from --would be to ask forgiveness during Yom Kippur.No problem --always time to repent.
The book is not out of print, yet!
The characters alone will be little friends inside your head ---'forever'!
Chabon definately deserved the Pulitzer for this one.
I bought the paperback, love the artwork on it,and then much to my dismay....they have reissued it again with another fantastic artwork on the cover,and I am like....do I buy that one too?
Thinking I might get a copy for my oldest son,and maybe print it on my printer.......
Ha!Anyway.......this is by far Chabon's best and most engaging book.
The others are great, I grant you that.I think the biggest draw for me is I loved comic books when I was a kid,and so did my oldest son.
Definately worth the read!
And that is always to ensure, to the utmost of your ability, that you are doing it solely for the money."This is a novel that should appeal to readers who appreciate richness of language, narrative and imagination.Drawn to the BorderlandsAt the same time, its subject matter includes both artistic and social unconventionality and transgression.As Michael Chabon tweeted in tribute to Prince:"I came of age feeling drawn to the borderlands.
Така, Кавалиър, се отправя към Новия свят, воден от две основни цели- да се реализира в Щатите като илюстратор на новата хитова вълна в Америка- комиксите, и да издърпа близките си при себе си.
Заедно с братовчед си Сам Клей, който също има афинитет към рисуването, се сработват перфектно и наред със силните взаимоотношения, които се изграждат между тях, те поставят началото и на нова рекламно- комиксова реализация, която носи хем "чертите" на известния Супермен, хем нещо абсолютно оригинално и разпознаваемо.
Така се заражда техният герой Ескапистът и концепцията Ескапизъм( в превод- измъкване, бягство), което е залегнало дълбоко не само в него, но и в самите Сам и Джо( Йозеф).
The Amazing Adventures Of Kavalier & Clay is a great American novel about two cousins whose talents, fevered dreams and crazy obsessions make them legends during the Golden Era of comic books.
Joe hopes his parents and younger brother Thomas will eventually join him, but as the Nazis gain power, the noose, of course, tightens on Europe’s Jews.Sammy, meanwhile, has his own issues, including the bitter memory of his estranged dad – a former vaudevillian strong man – and his burgeoning sexuality.Both boys find emotional and artistic escape through creating a comic book superhero called The Escapist, who comes to the rescue of people in need around the world.
The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay by Michael Chabonis such a wonderful book that I was sorry to finish it.
I read as slowly as I could, savoring the words, the characters, and the story, but sadly I finally finished it.Joe Kavalier is a Jewish refugee from Prague who dreams of bringing his family to America and saving them from Hitler.
What follows is a history of comic books in the United States, the Holocaust and World War II, into the 1950s with its paranoia and American dream suburbs.
And at the heart of it is love-sexual and family.The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay is a richly satisfying book on many levels.
I can't stop thinking about this book, Joe Kavalier, Sammy Clay, and comic books.
This book is about two guys, a Czech artist from Prague named Josef Kavalier and a writer from Brooklyn named Sam Klayman.
Also, with Sammy, I can feel their passion about creating comic books.What I like about this book is that Chabon paralleled the story with the creation and history of comics—during the WWII, the Golden Age, and the Dark Age. See, during that WWII, the Americans are searching for something that will take them away from the reality that is the war and their need of someone who will save them.
eccesso un po' trasversale di enfasi, ecco.strettamente stilistica è anche l'unica altra critica che muovo alla scrittura altrimenti pregevolissima di chabon, a cui evidentemente piacciono le metafore gustativ/olfattive.
fino alle di lui labbra che, viceversa, per la fanciulla hanno un sapore "tra l'acero il fumo" (e questa me la ricordo bene perché prima di pensare allo sciroppo mi sono stupidamente chiesta se chabon fosse uso andare in giro a leccare cortecce di latifoglie).insomma, per stringere, galeotte furono una volta di troppo la sinestesia e la seduzione papillare.
They're the ones you can be guaranteed to see at least one person on your car reading every time you commute for about three to six months after they hit the bestseller list, or are reviewed on Oprah's book club or listed as some young but socially conscious actor's favourite in Entertainment weekly.
No. But I can't muster the standard level of enthusiasm for most of them because I don't think it makes them any better written than a great many other books that missed the spin train, and happen to feature someone other than a scrappy but troubled New York boy with Eastern European parents who lusts after some idealized woman or man cultural cut-out with all the personality of a box of crackers.
When I read books, I try to see the whole picture of what the writer is trying to express, not just words on page after page of text.
The Escapist story is one that I believe we can all relate to at one time or another in our lives.
The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay illustrates the Escapist in all of us by telling the story of Kavalier leaving his homeland to begin a new life in America, with his hopes and dreams of reuniting with the family he left behind in Prague.
