https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14606.Edie
Shattering. Edie's story is a tragedy. Wait until you meet her family. Her father should have been taken out at dawn, blindfolded and shot. Moreover, if you want insight into the 1960s New York art world and contemporary culture as a whole, this is your book. It's redolent of America in the '60s. Fascinating.

Who's to say what would have become of EDIE had she'd been raised instead in the wilderness of the big city which eventually supported her preferred lifestyle and led her to her downfall, as one gets the impression she was a caught bobcat left in a cage of the open-range wilderness, where big dreams are tied directly to the openess of the sky, until someone came along and set her free on the highway....Best oral history I've ever read, and would love to find a book someday that equals or tops its scope in relation to the continuing American saga.....
It wasn’t until she began attending Cambridge as an art student miles away from the family ranch in Santa Barbara that the world opened up for her.
Adored by all those around her Edie got her first real taste of freedom and fame.
Word travels fast and within a couple months Edie was Manhattan’s new “It Girl” with people like Bob Dylan, Bob Neuwirth and Lester Persky knocking on her door.
In a mere 6 months Edie had starred in multiple Warhol productions, traveled to Europe with him to promote their films and was being mobbed at art galleries by adoring fans.
Edie Sedgwick was the Sixties' version of poor little rich girl, descended on both sides from men who founded the Colonies, families which remained prominent throughout American history.
Edie went East as a teenager for hospitalization at Silver Hill, an iconic Massachusetts mental hospital, and after that, to cut a streak through East Coast coolness--first making a splash on Brattle Street in Cambridge,, then heading down to new YOrk. She was beautiful, fragile, unworldly/outrageous in a very Zelda Fitzgerald kind of way, she became a Vogue/Vreeland-designated 'Youthquaker'--symbolizing the zaniness and freedom and beauty of the Sixties.
Edited by Jean Stein and George Plimpton, this massive oral biography does well the formidable job of presenting a tragic life, the Warhol scene, and even the old families of New England.
The interview subjects range from Truman Capote to Andy Warhol to Gregory Corso to various family members, and are presented without background information in short, numbered chapters.
Even on the base level of organization this biography is impressive: how do you edit thousands and thousands of interviews with over 250 people into a compelling, thorough narrative?I highly, highly recommend this one.
Two sons committed suicide, Edie died of a drug overdose, the eldest daughter cut off ties with most of her family and it was all a direct result of having a lecherous, nasty, arrogant, self-absorbed narcissist for a father.In a way, this book, told via the remembrances of those who knew Edie and her family, is a third party examination of how women with borderline personality are created.
She was so accustomed to being the most beautiful and sought-after girl in the room, and having dealt with the dregs that were often attracted to Andy Warhol, she had an over-inflated sense of her desirability and the civility her money and quasi-fame bought her.This was a terribly sad book in so many ways.
It introduced me to both oral histories (which I LOVE) and an era in American pop culture.
15 years later it became a personal favorite.The book jacket describes the Pop Art scene of the 60s as "All glitter and flash on the outside, it was hollow and desperate within—like Edie herself, and like her mentor, Andy Warhol." That's a good description.
There's some interesting class stuff between Warhol (who came from a working class immigrant family) and people like Edie (who was a true American blue blood with a long, impressive pedigree), too.
Horrors- But this style of "art"-HAH!
was in fashion at the time!!!
Needless to say that went over like a turd in a punch bowl and the end of his signature is a long dark line that started as he read the title of what he was signing- I remember him doing a pause as his pen dragged off the page- It was wierd.
Fascinating, Compelling, Unforgettable & Haunting! An Incredible Read! I Loved It!
Reading this book is like running a marathon in a way: sometimes you have to take a breather to slow down so you don't run yourself into the ground.
And not just that, it's horribly sad.Most people probably have some kind of idea about what Edie Sedgwick's life was like before even picking up this book; I know I did.
The way the book has been put together is admirable, compiled of interviews from around 250 people who knew or knew of Edie.
J'ai lu cette biographie après avoir fugitivement plongé dans l'univers du New-York Warholien de la fin des années 60 par le biais de "Just Kids", le bouquin de Patti Smith.
En tous les cas, elle semblait ne laisser personne indifférent.Ce livre est le fruit de la collecte de tous les témoignages des acteurs de la courte vie de la Superstar ; sa famille, ses brefs amis de défonce, ses mentors, son éphémère mari, ses rivales et consoeurs (Nico, Vita), les spectateurs de sa fulgurante ascension (Patti Smith, Truman Capote) ; des témoignages également d'Edie elle-même, tirées de la bande-son de son dernier film Ciao!
I had seen the movie Factory Girl years ago and LOVED IT though wow who is it his girl..
And sat waiting When I opened the amazon box finally came I grabbed this first and seen it was quotes....Ok I thought what did I buy....But I held out and FINALY decided to read it!!!Boy am I happy I did.It starts out about the Sedgwick family background...
WOW) Just a very sad emotionally charged book...It did have the most gorgeous pictures though..
Very stunning lady!!!To bad no one loved her enough to help her..
I'm sad I read it...
Six different people have recommended this book to me over the last year.
Jean Stein's narrative format is borrowed heavily from Studs Terkel, but still effective here.
I lament that this would not work at the Pizza Hut or any of my fer sure future employers.Yeah, it's a good read, but wow, yet another memoir of the 1950s/1960s/1970s that can be summed up with: Hey - Men Are Scum.
Also, it would have been nice if Jean Stein interviewed at least one person who found Sedgwick completely unattractive.
Yeah.
Hmm. Stuff White People LIke dot com!
First half is like Jane Goodall watching mountain gorillas - except that instead of mountain gorillas it's a detailed look into a certain segment of the New England upper class (and, the sub-section of that group that is truly nuts), and the New York very social scene in the 60's especially around Andy Warhol (and, the sub-section of that group that was truly nuts).
Second part of the book is concentrated on various drugs being injected into people's bodies - very detailed accounts of this to the point where I felt like - oh, gosh, not another injection.
I love how Jean Stein uses oral histories to tell Edie Sedgwick's story; I love how she begins with Edie's ancestors.
Edie is like quicksilver dancing between the various anecdotes that convey her moody, maddening, charismatic, contradictory character.
The 1960s New York pop art scene depicted in these pages defies belief, and Warhol is not a sympathetic character.
When I started the book, all I could think about was how short Edie's life was, how tragic to die at twenty-nine.
After I finished it, having survived the endless blow-by-blow of Edie's outrageous antics, all I could think is, how the hell did Edie live so long?
Don't speed, fashion, poor little rich girl incest victims and modern art make such a wonderful gumbo? Ugh, I cursed myself for getting to NYC after Andy died. It all sounded like so much fun. Now what can we do?
This well-researched and un-romanticized bio of a beautiful, fun, druggy, but ultimately inconsequential heiress, is a must read for students of Andy Warhol, who is easily one of the 20 greatest humans who ever lived.
Plimpton: Drunk. Closeted. Slob. Gov stoolie. Aren't we glad he died? Jean Stein: She wanted to be a WASP. ~~ A self-righteous tome (abt a nitwit) that makes schmucks feel godly.
A page turner at the start but still kept me going until the end despite a thought or two of just having had enough of the 'scene' at times.
Edie's early life with her family was terribly tragic and it seemed to help create this destructive, damaged being.
I started the book totally engrossed and fascinated by her early years and family life, it was a page turner.
I think we get a good take on her tragic life though with this format as we really do get a glimpse into her train-wreck of a life.
Un-putdown-able intersection of WASP aristocracy, mental illness, Warholian excesses, and speed. Quite a bit of speed. Like an overlong, but fascinating piece from Vanity Fair.
You’ve probably already heard some version of events of the life of this stylish socialite. In late 2006, a film about Edie Sedgwick was released. Entitled  Factory Girl , it had Sienna Miller playing a wide-eyed Mary Sue of sorts, who could tame horses and make even the surliest of weak Bob Dylan impersonators fall in love with her. Her downfall and drug addiction was sparked by the treatment of the Big Bad Andy Warhol, leading to her eventual death.The almost cartoonish biopic of the famed six
Her downfall and drug addiction was sparked by the treatment of the Big Bad Andy Warhol, leading to her eventual death.The almost cartoonish biopic of the famed sixties socialite, while rooted in the truth, favours the more salacious aspects of Sedgwick’s legendarily sensational life.
, does not take such a dramatized view of Sedgwick’s life, but it doesn’t marginalize this perspective either.
The book declines to make judgements and never really gives an exact account of whose perspective is the most trustworthy, leaving Sedgwick's true persona something of a riddle wrapped in a mystery wrapped in black tights and a cropped silver haircut.From a fashion perspective at least, Sedgwick’s status as a style icon is clear.
I think it's my first time reading it all the way through.
I have no personal connection to all-American Ivy League/prep school, so reading a snapshot of it is really interesting.I've seen Cat Marnell, drug-loving writer for Vice, write that she thinks Edie was stupid.
I think it's clear that Edie had a messed up childhood (two youngest sleep in a separate mini house with their nanny?), and was pretty naive.
From that point on I don't think she really had time to mature.
However, I think the storyline falters when Edie starts hanging out with Andy.
She was beautiful, she had her own style, she also had some artistic talent that didn't get much use.
When she was a "star" and the "girl of the year" her life, though glamorous, was sad, and I don't mean tragically beautiful, I mean falling asleep with your lit cigarette and waking up in an inferno, sad.
As a friend told him of Edie's death, he responded briefly, casually, then said, "what are you going to do today?" The fact that she surrounded herself with such empty people, that she cared for them in her brief precious life is almost sadder than the drug addiction that ended it.
This biography of Edie Sedgwick is by all accounts interesting.
Edie Sedgwick led a life that a very small percentage of the population can empathize with - she was the in-crowd of the 60s, hanging out with Andy Warhol and just being a tragically fabulous young girl.
The beginning of the book brings you through the many limbs of the Sedgwick family tree - stopping to explain who everyone is and how they came to be where they are.
After that, you meet Edie and are taken on the downward spiral that her life was.
They recently put out the movie "Factory Girl," which was based on this biography of Edie Sedgwick.
The book is written in what I think George Plimpton called an "oral history" style.
Basically Jean Stein interviewed a ton of people who knew Edie, and then Plimpton edited those interviews into a narrative.
I've never read a biography quite like this, where it's all direct quotes from people woven into a narrative.
Of course the book would appeal to anyone who's into the 60s or the Andy Warhol Factory scene, but I just think Edie was a fascinating person.

This was 1 of the first biographies I ever read.
I was a teenager, about 15 years old.
I loved Andy Warhol at the time, but after a few of my older sisters read Edie and could not stop being obsessed with her, her life, and her life with Andy - I had to read it.
Beautiful tragedy is what comes to mind when I think about her and her life.
Her life, story, even touches my soul today - decades later.
You can feel like you were there with Edie, experiencing all of her highs and lows.Highly recommended!
This book was a decadent adventure. Incredible. Every minute of it provoked new emotions. I have to say, I think it broke me a little. The kind of broken you don't want to fix because it's okay to be many different pieces of a puzzle. Life is made up of pieces we try to fit into each other along the way, but there are always cracks that are just space, space within ourselves. Questions that go unanswered. It's okay to feel a little broken.
It's really sad when your role model is a drug addict, but a delightful social enigmatic one. Even through her inner struggle everyone saw her sparkle, that is just plainly admirable. She was everything and nothing, I am quite envious of her. There is no doubt she was a fascinating person, there are people that are born to live and she was definitely one of those people.
