https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530643.Desert_Heat
a light easy-to-read crime novel from JA Jance that delivers a good plotline, a sensible introduction to a main character and a solid base from which to launch a series.Joanna Brady, sheriff's daughter and a deputy's wife, has her world rocked when she finds her husband dying from a gunshot wound.
But then there are accusations of him being a dirty cop and Joanna is determined to find the proof to clear his name and that of her family as well as prepare for her husband's funeral.Jance's introduction of Brady, her family and what I expect will become some key characters in the books following this, is well done.
I look forward to reading more of the Brady series and other books by this author.
I liked this and will be reading the next in the series. I liked the strong female lead and she could be a good character to build a series around.
Interesting start to the series. I was engaged enough that I continued by reading the next 6 books.
When this book was over, all I could think was, "Finally!" First, the narrator was awful, her game show host voice so ill-suited to story reading.
I don't often say a book is bad; usually I can find something redeeming.
And by getting to the end, I learned the protagonist goes from blubbering, floundering, confused new widow storming from one pointless errand to the next, and then she runs for sheriff.
She did nothing at all to solve her husband's murder except run around yelling at everyone that it had been murder, so naturally, the author made her sheriff.
Desert Heat by J.A. Jance is the first suspense novel in the Brady Series.
It introduces Joanna Brady , wife of a murdered Sheriffs Deputy in Cochise County Arizona.The novel deftly introduces the family and region history which lead to this crime.
The various factors driving Joanna to respond to and fight to solve the murder are carefully followed and met head on by Joanna, a strong woman following her father and husband in the role of crime fighter.The determination shown by Joanna in this book made me want to learn more about her in the later .
books in Jance's series.
It was fun to read about the beginning of Joanna and how she became the sheriff.
I'm only giving it three stars because it's not a great piece of literature and didn't make me think or ponder life at all.
Just a quick fun mystery.
I read it in one day and it's easy easy.
I had pretty much figured out the mystery and who was involved before I got done, but it was still fun.
Don't expect your world to change over this one, but it's great for when you need a no brainer!
Two young women, one with nothing to lose and one with everything to lose, join forces to fight police corruption in the desert town of Bisbee, Arizona. Written in 1993, Desert Heat is so well written that the story is still riveting in 2018; not stale. There is great character development, perfect for the first book of a very popular series. The reader cares enough about the "white hat" people to be curious about their futures. J.A. Jance is also known for the J.P. Beaumont series.
I am so glad I started this series, this book had me on the edge of my seat. I couldn't put it down. a gripping action packed must read.
Woo hoo, I am out of my mystery slump! I really liked Desert Heat and the leading lady, Joanna Brady. It was a quick read, but kept me guessing until the end. I also enjoyed that there was a dual perspective by Joanna and Angie. I will be continuing with this series.
I liked the main character. She's spunky. I'll definitely read more of this series.
Fast-paced, engaging, and fun, Desert Heat was the perfect book for a hot summer day like today.
Really each and every character was well thought-out and each one was a pleasure to read about.The mystery was stellar, absolutely stellar.
It was by far the star of the entire book and it was intricately pieced together in such a way that I absolutely did not expect the end.
Filled with small-town corruption, personal issues, and a faked suicide, the mystery was by far one of the best I've read in a while.Overall an excellent book.
Just like Loyalty, this series will be perfect when I want something a little bit different from a cozy.
Joanna Brady was happily married.
Suddenly, her life changes, and she is left to solve the murder of her husband because she does not believe he committed crimes as an officer of the law.
As she works to put the pieces together, she find herself, her daughter and her mother in danger.
But she does what she has to do to bring about justice.I enjoyed this first book in the Joanna Brady series so much.
She's a strong and capable woman.
She's believable as a character.
Above all, she is honest.
I can't wait to read the next book in the series.
Becoming worried, Joanna heads out in her car looking for him after finding out he’d left the station hours ago.
Joanna isn’t buying any of it and is determined to find the killer.What’s cool about this story is that the reader is aware of who the killer is in the prologue with the mystery being how Joanna will discover the truth and how she’ll get evidence to prove her husband is innocent even with so many things pointing to his guilt.I’d been able to read books 13 and 16 in this series for free, and liked them so much I had to go back and start at the beginning.
My only expectation for this little mystery was just that, a little mystery.
While this first in the Joanna Brady series is quite short, it's full of interesting characters and an action-packed plot.
The reader starts off knowing a whole lot more than Joanna, and we must sit back and watch her struggle to discover the truth.
As the plot unfolds, we realize we only know half the truth, with the rest revealing itself in a harrowing climax.With a publication date of 1993, this book has a few expected dated elements.
This 1993 page turner introduces Jance's long running series featuring (about to be) Arizona sheriff Joanna Brady.
In addition to the story, I enjoyed Jance's descriptions of the Arizona desert and wildlife which evoked for me memories of the 1950s when I lived there for a while.
I will continue to read more of Jance's Joanna Brady novels as well as her stories featuring retired Seattle detective J.
This is a fast read that could nearly be classified as a modern Western.
This came out approx 1997 and is dated in a few ways.
The main character spends a fair amount of time looking for a payphone (in what is now the age of cell phones).
In some ways this is a formulaic story where a young women gets hit hard by life, yet manages to turn things around.
This is the first in what is currently a 15-book series.
Suspect it modernizes over time.
Decent read for those who like the Southwest, longer series, and female sheriffs!
Very engaging first novel in the Joanna Brady series by Jance.
I read another in this series several years ago and remember enjoying it.
In this one, Joanna's husband, Andy, is shot and later killed while he is in the hospital.
The local cops and the DEA think that Andy committed suicide and was involved with the drug cartel in Bisbee, Arizona.
It is up to Joanna to prove them wrong.
At the end of the novel, she is convinced by others in the town to run for sheriff.
This was a very good lead-in novel to the series and I look forward to reading more.
This was a brand new series to me, and I was pleasantly surprised by it. Joanna is an interesting character. Younger than you would expect, strong-willed, smart, and dedicated to her family. They rally around her, even though they're grieving too. The mystery is compelling, though there are a lot of pieces that have to be woven together. The reader knows rather early who actually killed Andy Brady, but what we don't really get until the end is the why. The end is a nice lead-in to the rest of the series.
Couldn't put it down.Joanna on her tenth wedding anniversary finds her husband sheriff Andrew Brady shot. Investigations shows that he tried to commit suicide. She's going to clear her husband's name. One minute you'll be holding your breath scared, next minute you'll have a lump in your throat. Author builds her characters carefully, when needed sex scenes written, but tastefully. And some of us have a mother like that to. Will be reading more about Joanna.
Suspenseful ... only put the book down once after I started it and not by choice! I love the main character Joanna Brady. I've read several others in this series and now I've finally seen where it all started. An entertaining read.
When her policeman husband is murdered in the desert and accused of corruption, Joanna Brady sets out to clear his name even though it endangers the rest of her family. This is a good prequel to the Sheriff Brady series and is a relaxing mystery read.
J.A. Jance, the acclaimed and prolific western mystery writer, has been on my to-read list for a long time. I selected Desert Heat, her first in a popular series. I listened on audio, something I never thought I'd like but now enjoy. The story starts out properly, with a dead body. The police investigate it as a homicide, but Joanne Brody stirs up a pot of trouble insisting her husband was murdered. This is for readers who like the unexpected in the twists and turns that lead to the inevitable conclusion.
I really enjoyed this start to the series. I am looking forward to reading the next one.I think I will also look up Jance's other series.
This series takes place in and around Bisbee and Cochise county in southern Arizona. I picked the book up at a small bookshop in Bisbee. My time spent in the area helped make the characters come alive for me This first short book seems to be mostly character development for the next, and I'm interested enough that I'll be moving on to number two soon.
First book in the Sheriff Joanna Brady series - recommend reading them in order.
in places I am personally familiar with so both my husband and I loved it.
Circumstances (which this book is about) prevent him from getting elected, so I won't spoil this for you by telling you what happens, but it involves good and dirty cops, murder, drugs, and more.
The characters are good and believable and you will want to go on and read book 2 - where Joanna is elected the Sheriff.
I'm not going to give this any stars, because it was the reading of this audio book that really turned me off.
The audio quality was horrible & the reader just didn't do a thing for me.
I listened to another by this publisher, Books In Motion, & it wasn't great either.
That reader was much better.
This one sounded like Martin's secretary (his sister IRL) in "Gross Pointe Blank" talking with a cheap microphone in an echoing tunnel.
A fun voice for short bits ONLY.From what I did hear of the story, it wasn't really sucking me in, anyway.
Not just the first of the JoAnna Brady books, but my first JoAnna Brady book. I liked the humor that was worked into the tragedy (Jenny and Gs, for instance).My little sister Sam was given a book report assignment of a modern mystery and I recommended this book -- and actually got yelled at because there's a bit of language and a tiny bit of sex. Jeez -- she was 17 friggin' years old!Oh, well. Waiting for the next book to come out.
Typically I like strong female characters, however, I felt the females in this book portrayed extremes of "types", either too overwrought or too controlled. Most disturbing was the nine-year-old daughter who didn't seem to understand or feel any depth of sad reality at her father's death. Johanna herself acted as if she were just having a bad hair day. The storyline was interesting enough. The characters weren't.
A new to me series in the independent woman genre. Joanna Brady's husband is shot and left for dead. He was a deputy sheriff and running for sheriff in Bisbee, AZ. Suddenly, it seems everyone believes he was on the take, but Joanna and a few supporters do not believe this of him and set out to prove that he was murdered. A couple of convenient plot lines, but I was interested in the main character and will give the author another chance to see how this story develops.
I had to stop listening to the audio version of this. Worst narration EVER by Ellen Travolta. Papers shuffling noise in the background, severe dry mouth, false teeth clicking, has to take a breath in the middle of sentences, has to take 2 or 3 breaths before beginning a sentence. Can't understand how she got the job of narrating books, never mind that they produced and released it to the unsuspecting public. Don't buy the audio version!! Wish there were minus stars for cases such as this.
