https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114129.Born_in_Ice
This is the second in the series, but it could easily be read as a stand alone (enough back story is given.) This is a simple and very romantic story of a young Irish woman, Brianna, who runs her own B&B in a remote area of Ireland.
It was such a beautiful love story, and I welled up with happy tears towards the end.
For those who like their romance with some steam, the sensuality and passion between hero/heroine was paletable.
Plenty of beautiful bedroom scenes, not overly graphic but very sensual.
Grayson was an amazing hero and Brianna was so likable.
So I see that many people enjoyed this book even more than Born In Fire, but alpha male Grayson Thane really wasn't my cup of tea.
Born in Ice takes readers back to Ireland, this time to tell us Brianna's story.
During the Irish winter, Brianna receives news that a mystery writer from America, Grayson Thane will be staying at her inn for a month.
A mini mystery emerges, but this book is about romance so...Enter American Grayson Thane.
This guy had MAJOR issues relating to his anger and I really didn't like the way he treated Brianna at times.
When you have a......a writer......and Ireland...then you'll definitely have a romance! This is the second time I read this book, so the following review is older. I am not going to change it because I loved it again! I LOVED IT! Every single page of this book was great! The author describes both the scenery and the characters with beautiful details and the reader feels comfortable with them. Of course, I am a huge fan of everything Irish but it’s not the only reason that I liked this book. The
I have to admit that she seemed kind of boring in the first book but I am glad that she wasn’t boring at all in this one.
She wants to have a big family because she’s the kind of woman who loves to take care of other people.
Sometimes she acts like she doesn’t matter much but the truth is that everyone loves her because of her kind nature.Grayson Thane is an author who lived like a gypsy, without having a permanent home.
He’s the kind of man who didn’t want any ties with anyone and, of course, love wasn’t in his plans.
This book brought Grayson Thane into my life. I will forever be single until I find the real life incarnation of this man.
Brianna Concannon's bed-and-breakfast became a cold and empty place.
A restless wanderer with a painful past, he plans to spend the cold winter alone.
Having set up her bitter-filled mother in a place in the village, she longs to find someone to give all the love she has in her and have her own family like her sister, who is now pregnant.
Grayson Thane, a famous American writer, has booked into the b&b to write his next novel which takes place in Ireland.
I was particularly disappointed because I really loved the first book of this trilogy, but Gray's jerkishness was souring, and Brianna's niceness fell into doormat territory too often.
I loved the moments she stood up for herself (against her mother, and when Gray tries to manipulate her into being angry at him), but I think it's a personal thing: I want a more assertive heroine who goes for what she wants.
I would have given the book 2 stars, because I did enjoy a nice little jaunt into life owning a B&B, but...Forgiving someone who ransacked and robbed your B&B (your home and your place of work!) and violated your trust?
And you feel her strength as the story progresses.Grayson, our hero; the loner who has been scarred by his childhood- growing up in foster homes and living his adult life as a gypsy- restlessly moving from place to place- yet finally finding a home in Brianna.
Brianna dealt with his various moods; and he gradually learned to sense hers in returnIt was great to see Maggie and Rogan enjoying their HEA; an update upon the always unhappy mother; and a secret potential relative that is active searched for in this book.The story keeps you on your toes- despite your heart knowing they'll be together in the end- and there are so many feels for the h and H.
I like this nearly as much as the first book, but something about it is just too nice, I think? I love their trip to New York, though, I deeply feel Brianna's awe of the city. And Grayson is about as generous a hero as you can find in romance. Good reread.
3.5 y me he abonado a esta puntuación. ...me ha gustado la verdad , es lo primero que leo de esta autora y seguro que la volveré a leer, pero no me ha vuelto loca y quizás da demasiadas vueltas a algunas cosas , y me ha faltado un epílogo. ...
Es lo que pasa a veces, que necesitamos encontrar "el libro" que nos llega al corazón para poder apreciar el talento de un autor y ver su trabajo desde otra óptica.
En mi caso, "el libro" que me llevó a disfrutar de la narrativa de Nora fue Nacida del fuego, la primera parte de esta trilogía, y fue tanta mi adoración que decidí continuar con este tan pronto como pude.
Ha sido un placer leer esta historia, volver a "ver" a tantos personajes de Nacida del fuego que me robaron el corazón; tengo muchos deseos de leer Nacida de la vergüenza, el último.
Rarely have I read a trilogy where the second book is better that the first. This one is. As a pure romance it ticks all my boxes and is just a lovely story. This older NR does not show its' age and is a timeless story of a hero wanderer who never had a home and a firmly rooted heroine who never wished to be anywhere else.
Lo que sin lugar a dudas me convierte en una imbécil, por amar a un hombre tan cobarde que le teme a sus propios sentimientos.
Y tiene miedo de tener un hogar porque nunca ha tenido uno." Born in Ice nos cuenta ésta vez la historia de Brie junto a su huesped Grayson, que llega en una noche tempestosa e interrumpe su vida, se cuela en su rutina por seis meses mientras ella poco a poco se va metiendo bajo su piel.
A ella ya le han roto el corazón, a él le da miedo amar porque no sabe como hacerlo.
Deel 2 van de reeks 'de ierse zussen' en voor mij is dit tweede deel nog net iets meer dan het eerste.Het blijft gewoon zalig om de zussen Maggy en Brianna te volgen . Vlot geschreven en een mooie verhaallijn.
Hacía 8 años que no lo leía y había olvidado lo completamente maravillosa que es esta historia. Ahora recuerdo por qué ha seguido en mi corazón y por qué no he podido olvidarme de Grayson y de Brianna. Mi favorito de la trilogía, de la autora y uno de mis libros favoritos.
¿4-4.5?
Really not anticipating on reading the second novel of the Born In Trilogy, I found myself wondering just how the time jumped to 4am and I already half way through Born in Ice. Surprised at my inconsistency of taste, I enjoyably sped through Born in Ice although I didn't care much for Born in Fire, the first of the series starring Rogan Sweeny and Maggie Concannon.By no means a challenging and lofty piece of literature, Roberts uses the same template for Born in Ice as she did for Born in Fire.
In Born in Ice, Nora Roberts continues her series with the emotional love story of the second Concannon sister, Brianna.
American born Gray Thane has arrived in Ireland to spend a quiet summer in the peaceful country and write his next multi-million dollar bestseller.
Brianna has turned her home into a bed-and-breakfast - a home away from home for weary travelers - and being an avid reader of Mr. Thane's books, she's downplaying her excitement about his stay to her family.I loved this book as much as the first one!
It adds such a charming ambiance to the overall experience and meshes with Roberts' writing so perfectly.
This is a lovely series that I would recommend to all fans of adult romance.
Brianna's quiet composure, hiding a incredible depth of feeling, always tugged at me.
Her joy in giving her love, in everything she does is infectious and I don't know how one could help but love her.Grayson - though incredibly stubborn in his thoughts that he needs no one and nothing permanently - is such a fantastic hero.
His gleeful joy in his work (murder/mystery writer) and curiousity, along with his unquenchable desire to truly know people makes his irresistible.There's definitely some pain caused between these two, and from some outside influences, but seeing Gray quietly realize that a home and love isn't a cage, but salvation was beautiful.
Yes!!!! :)))))))))))Loved this one ❤ everything was so much better developed in this second book, the love story, the characters... everything! *.*The ending was a little bit too rushed for my taste but overall I enjoyed it a lot. I can't wait to read the last book and find out everything about the Concannon sisters. I also hope Murphy is one of the main characters in the third book because I need him SO BAD to find someone and be happy!! :)
Great story - who doesn't enjoy a good love story with a writer as the hero? :)
Genial. Me ha encantado.Esta protagonista es totalmente diferente a la del anterior libro y, aunque al principio no sabía si me iba a gustar o no, me ha enamorado.Además el final, en mi opinión, ha sido precipitado y por eso me ha dejado con muchas ganas de leer el 3er libro :)
3,5⭐Gostei mais deste do que o 1.º
3,5⭐️Gostei mais deste do que o 1.º
Not only my favorite in the series, but my favorite Nora Roberts book ever, and I have read every one of her books that I can get my hands on.
I never tire of the characters or the stories behind them.
Set in Ireland.
Grayson is a loner who doesn't believe in setting down roots, due to his past.
Throw in Brianna's bitter, overbearing Mother, Bri's sister Maggie and her husband, and lots of friends in the small town in Ireland, and you have a great story.
This is Nora Roberts at her best.
Book two in the "Born In' trilogy by Nora Roberts turned out to be an even better ovary tickler than book one .
I think the reason Nora Roberts books are so readable is because her characters are so likeable.
These books are great escapism and a wonderful antidote to the awful sad lives of people we read about in the newspaper every day.The only negative thing I have to say about this book is the number of typesetting mistakes annoyed me.
At one point there is a character called 'Iris' who turns into 'Irish' for about a page.
Loved this story, again. The wandering writer that chose a home and the deeprouted homemaker who made that home for him. And oh, that scene at the end... sigh, what a great way to end the story, which would have almost made this a 5 star rating, where it not for that silly bit of suspense thrown in.There are sparks, there are a lot (and I mean a lot) of cakes, the romance builds slowly and steadily and is totally believable for me.
Loved this story! Brie and Gray are so good together, can't wait to see what the last book brings.
I adore these books and Nora Roberts for that matter.
Love the scene where Brianna Concannon comes down the stairs in the middle of the thunderstorm and her future boyfriend gets his first glimpse of her. Master work by Nora Roberts!
Brianna is a saint. I wish I had her temperament but unfortunately I am more like her big sister Maggie! Grayson was very likable too.
