https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10993282-lover-reborn
But I knew that, if Ward did it right, Tohrment's book had the potential to be the best installment to the series in a long time.
And now that his time has finally come, I'm pleased to say that Ward doesn't disappoint.Tohrment & No'One:I know a lot of people aren't happy that Tohrment doesn't get Wellsie back.
But save for getting Wellsie back, I believe Tohr was dealt the best hand possible in Lover Reborn.Let me be frank: I had very little faith that Ward could pull a romance like this off.
One of the things I like most about Ward's couples is that, when their book is over, their story isn't.
Talk about dumbasses plot devices.QHUINN & LAYLA BFFsWhenever Qhuinn called Layla "baby girl" or touched her in any way, I got so mad at some point I realized I was projecting on Blay and getting all jealous and possessive.
She fucking went there.Already-bonded Layla and Bonded-for-3-Books-at-least Qhuinn decided the solution to all their issues was to have a kid together!
And I'm assuming some people will be mad at Qhuinn for caring so much about her after it, but come on, IF this had to happen, he'd be an even bigger asshole if he didn't act like this now, tbh.I still don't undertand WHY Ward went there.
(Spoilers are hidden)  “The quick and the dead are all the same.Everyone’s just looking for home.” - LASSITER   Hear ye! Hear ye!  Leteth it be known that on this day, March 31st, 2012, I solemnly vow that I shall never doubt the WARDen again! So, now that that's out of the way, my thoughts on the book... I wasn’t sure she could do it. Pffffft! Silly me. I didn't think she could pull it off. *sigh* Whatever was I thinking? And had I had actually considered skipping this book and not reading it a
Tohr and Autumn and their story: (view spoiler)[I honestly wasn't sure what to think about No'One because we'd never been given enough of her character to form any real impressions.
In this one book I was able to feel what he'd been living for the past years since Wellsie's death, and I needed to feel those emotions in order to buy this story.
(hide spoiler)]John Matthew and Xhex: (view spoiler)[I always thought it was a little easy for JM to accept Xhex as a fighter.
(hide spoiler)]Qhuinn and Blay: (view spoiler)[Over the years I've become ambivilant about their story.
5 stars – Paranormal/Vampire/UF RomanceThoughts Before Reading:When will the WARDen give us Qhuinn’s/Blaylock’s story, dammit?!?!? I don’t give a @*#&$ about Tohr!? I want Qhuay!!!!Thoughts After Reading: This is me coughing up feathers after eating crow because  Lover Reborn  was sooo much better than I expected. It’s an emotional read that had me shedding serious tears and an a+wesome installment to the series! And now that the Warden has officially announced on Facebook that Blay and Qhui
5 stars – Paranormal/Vampire/UF RomanceThoughts Before Reading:When will the WARDen give us Qhuinn’s/Blaylock’s story, dammit?!?!? I don’t give a @*#&$ about Tohr!? I want Qhuay!!!!Thoughts After Reading:
  This is me coughing up feathers after eating crow because 
  Lover Reborn
 was sooo much better than I expected. It’s an emotional read that had me shedding serious tears and an a+wesome installment to the series! And now that the Warden has officially announced on Facebook that Blay and Qhuinn are the next BDB hardcover release slated for 2013?!?! *faints* Seriously, somebody better have a stash of smelling salts handy!
Despite this I think this book came too soon and didn't do justice to Tohr, his needs, and his relationship with neither Wellsie or No'One. More on that later, I'm going to start with the good.
I never expected for Ward to make Tohr and No'One even remotely interesting but she did more than that: she made it so that -for the first half of the book- I didn't doubt their connection.
I don't want to feel like my intelligence is insulted while I'm reading a book.The JM/Xhex story line.
3.5 Letting Go Stars SpoilersFirst read 2014Reread 4/9/2017"I need this," he said, as if speaking to himself. "Yes, you do. You are so gaunt that I ache for you." Except he was going to stop this, she thought as his stare grew dull. And she knew why. "She is welcome in this space," No'One said. "Bring your shellan unto your mind. Let her take my place."-Tohr and AutumnLover Reborn, the 10th book in the BDB series was an emotional read for me. I have loved Tohr since book one. I also loved his ma
I tried to be understanding because Tohr and Wellsie had such a strong love, and were mated for 200 years, but I felt like Autumn really got kicked around.
Then I felt so bad for Tohr being forced to move on when he loved his dead mate so much that I couldn't even be mad at him for being a dick.
Those moments were almost at the end of the book so I kinda wished we would have got to see more of that for me to know if Autumn is second place or truly loved.
"He waited for his conscience to start screaming.He prepared himself for an overwhelming desolation that he had been with another female.He was… ready for something, anything to cough up out of his chest—despair, anger, frustration.All he got was the sense that what had just happened was the beginning, not an end."  Lover Reborn is a heartbreaking story, even though it has a happy end.Watching Tohrment and his suffering, trying to let go of Wellsie... It was sad and beautiful at the same time,
<3 I knew I loved him for a reason <3 And I can't wait for him to get his own book, I just know that it's going to be amazing <3Xhex/John - They go through a tough time here, mostly because they didn't know what they got into when they got mated, and it takes more than just being in love to make a life with someone.John is overprotective of Xhex, and after she gets hurt, he basically forbids her to go out in the field.Well, I don't have to say anything more about how that turned out :DDXhex is a trained killer, she can hold her own, but the Brotherhood stands by John on this one, so she leaves the mansion and goes back to her previous line of work with Trez.It was really hard to see them unhappy, and I seriously didn't know how it could get better, but I'm glad how it all worked out, and how John realised he has to change his thinking when it comes to Xhex and her fighting with the Brotherhood.The Band of Bastards - I still don't like them.
But...the angel Lassiter lets Tohr in on what's happening to Wellsie, how she's (view spoiler)[ not in the Fade and is wasting away in the "In Between", (hide spoiler)] and Tohr is appropriately horrified.
I thought her love scenes with Tohr were smokin' hot (can Ward write erotica or what?), and wow, the effect her 'needing' had on some other couples...whew!Well, besides Tohr and No'One, this book had plenty to offer:*Xhex and John Matthew are having trouble in their marriage.
I especially loved the touching scene at the end where each of the Brothers presented Tohr (view spoiler)[ with gifts to get him through Wellsie's Fade ceremony.
Well Xcor and Layla might be hooking up.and than Quinn and Layla trying 2 get knock up. SMH. Anyways the book was awesome. All of JR Wards books are awesome. When Thor let go of his Wellsie that was so emotional. And opening his heart for Autumn was so beautiful. It had me crying.Can't wait for Quinn and Blay book. It's about time!!!!!! I know one thing John and Xhexania sure did have some very intensive sex. They both out did Thor and Autumn. Lmao!!!!
Starting where Lover Unleashed left off and with her usual flair Ward throws us into “Spring” and right into the action and pain that is Tohr.
New and mysterious characters are introduced (Assail) while others are fleshed out (Throe and Zyphor.) We’re still all mixed up in the whole hot-mess that is Layla/Qhinn/Blay/Saxton; however that’s all about to change:) The Blind King still kicks ass, Ward throws a “needing” (or two) our way and gives us details of a ceremony that absolutely broke my heart.
This book just flowed beautifully.In fact I would have to say that Ward has hit her pinnacle with Lover Reborn.
------------------------------------------March 28th At work the next day, trying to write my actual review..So what did I think..I’m trying really hard to not think about the things I didn’t like, cause with as little sleep as I got last night, and the fact that I still feel exhausted, I’m pretty sure I would start bawling my eyes out, and that’s not the best thing to do at work..
Qhuinn, Layla, and Tohr being a bitch, makes me want to take 1 away, but then I think of No’One and how she made me tear up, and then I’m ok with 4 stars..
“Life was short, no matter how many days you were granted. And people were precious, each and every one, no matter how many you were lucky enough to have in your life. And love... love was worth dying for.Worth living for, too.”  This book is tragic. Tohr has to move on and leave his past behind if he want his shellin to rest in peace, it's not easy when she is the only thing he can hold on to even he passed the storms, it still hurts like hell for him. I didn't expected too much about this boo
Tohr has to move on and leave his past behind if he want his shellin to rest in peace, it's not easy when she is the only thing he can hold on to even he passed the storms, it still hurts like hell for him.
I almost cried for Tohr and No'One; they loses in their own ways and wants to fight for someone they love.
The book itself is capable of wrenching my gut, but actually I don't like when Tohr and No'One choose to avoid each other, it frustrated me so much.
I hated and loved Tohr.
I am happy to say I believe that Ward has stayed true to who she is as a writer with this book.Tohrment always seemed like the most grounded, stable, mature member of the Brotherhood.
I for one feel that Ms. Ward did a very good job at portraying this with Tohr’s journey in this book.There is no question whatsoever that Tohr loved Wellsie.
It felt right to me how the storyline showed that Tohr was actually keeping Wellsie from going to the Fade by his horrible, wrenching, unchanging grief.
At one point I thought to myself, whose book am I reading?
She gave him her body and soul...and he stomped on it ruthlessly because he didn't want to accept what needed to happen.Just when I had had enough of Lover Reborn, even though I would have never given up on a BDB book no matter how mad I was, the WARDen took me by surprise and locked me in.
That's what makes J.R. Ward such an incredible writer, my favorite writer.I realized once I finished this book why the WARDen gave so much page time to the other characters.
5 BDB Obsessed Stars!    “God, I miss you,” he said in a voice that cracked. “Every night. Every day…”  Even though Tohr’s shellan has been gone for a while, it still hasn’t gotten any easier for the brother. He is heartbroken, devastated, all he can do is fight the lessers, fight to avenge his shellans death. That’s all he has the strength for. We meet No’One in book 8 (JM and Xhex’s book) She is Xhex’s mahmen, and she has been staying on this side to try to form a connection with her daughter
Tohr and No’One have a past connection.
They knew each other a long time ago, but Tohr is nothing like the male she knew back then.
Seeing how Tohr and No’One are together, Lassiter knows they would be great together.
Tohr and No’One develop a relationship over time.
The feelings Tohr is having for No’One scare him.
I love how Tohr renames No’One. She becomes Autumn.
On top of all the sad and heartbreaking, there was a lot of funny too...“And if that bastard’s innocent,” Rhage spoke up, “I’m the fucking Easter bunny.” “Oh, good,” someone quipped.
I knew to expect some slang going in, but I swear...I think it's getting worse with each book.2) ROMANCE: The romance sucked.
More on this in the next bullet points.3) HERO: The hero (whom I will not name and instead will call "H" here for short, just so that it doesn't spoil the series for anyone who hasn't read it)...well, JRW did such a convincing job of depicting his mourning and completely devastating state of depression in the previous books that I just could not buy his recovery in this one.
EFFFFFFF.78) NEXT BOOK: Qhuinn + Blay = YAY!
Update: lowered to 1 star because I got reminded about how disappointed I am in the wreck that is Tohr's story...Very disappointed.
I was really looking forward to Tohr's story.
This book is 2 stars because I love JR's writing style, the other characters that we follow, their continued development.
The cover - that is NOT how Tohr looks.
The interactions/ love story between the not so great H and the really awful h...
Just can't picture it.I always pre-order Ms. Ward's books, buy them at full price.
This one made me hesitate on buying her books ever after.
Read in 2013Find my complete review on my blog here: http://rachybee-the-rest-is-still-unw...Lover Reborn by J.R. Ward tells the tale of Tohr; a broken shell of a Brother, destroyed and altered by the loss of his mate, a man who finally gets his story told.
Those who know me will know I’ve been hoping Tohr would be paired with No’One since it became apparent that Tohr was going to get his own story and she was a new edition to the series, so suffice to say, I’m happy that she was his love interest in this book.
Seeing her experience all this for the first time as she finds courage and herself was great to read about.
In order for Lassiter to be successful, he needs Tohr to move on and find happiness elsewhere, which for some reason means in the arms of another woman.Sex heals all wounds, or so it seems.Once upon a time, at the beginning of the series, Ward had only planned to write 10 books total.
But the thing with Tohr’s first love is that Wellsie was a woman of worth, and readers were able to see Tohr and Wellsie together in the first few books before she was taken away from him.Lover Reborn starts fifteen months after Wellsie’s death and runs over a course of a year.
This book delivered all I could have hoped and more, here are my thoughts ...What's it all about?Tohrment is a lost and weary warrior, a character that has been lovingly included in the series from the start, here we are finally able to get wrapped up into a book all about him, but this brother has not had the easy road, devastation and ruin has followed this tough warrior, 'lover reborn' takes the reader to the beginning of his search to move forward and put the pain and devastation of loss to bed.
Tohrment (or Tohr) and No’One (or Rosalhynda – her initial name; or Autumn – the name that was given to her by Torh)  Life was short, no matter how many days you were granted. And people were precious, each and every one, no matter how many you were lucky enough to have in your life. And love... love was worth dying for.Worth living for, too.   Such a sad sad love story. Torhment is heartbroken because his mate Wellsie and his unborn son were killed. Since he knows that if he kills himself, he w
Lassiter finds him and takes him back to the mansion, because there are things about his precious Wellsie and her afterlife that he doesn’t know.No’One is miserable because of her distressing story of her youth when she was stolen and raped by a symphath.
Both live in their own personal hell.Well, both they have to just let go of the past because No’One’s daughter has forgiven her and wants to be her friend and Torh’s mate needs to move on and Torh does not let her.For the majority of the book Tohr behaves like a heartless bastard and No’One behaves like a lifeless victim.
Tohr's loss serves as the catalyst for his struggling brothers...The BDB rallies behind their king, their cause, and each other...  Man, destiny sucked ass. It just had to barge in and piss all over everyone's rose garden.And now it was taking a shit in the other flower beds.   Before we get started, I want to make sure I sing several praises of this book, because it was not all fun for me...There was a lot more laughter and witty dialogue from the Brotherhood in this Novel. that kind of easy ba
I've been unimpressed with he progression of this series for quite some time, but equally determined to make it through to the 11th installment.I really just wanted to be able to read Lover At Last - the book about two characters I've come to love.
Everyone was reliving their own tragedies, losses, near-misses, and all the heartache which brought them to the current point in their lives.Even though this story was supposed to be primarily about Tohrment & No'One, Tohr's story was directly influencing John Matthew...This book was heavy on John and Xhex - it was a little like reading Lover Mine II - John is trying to deal with the idea of Xhex being a badass fighter in the war.
John & Xhex - I loved reading about them even as my heart broke for them.
Ward takes off the rose-colored glasses and gives John and Xhex something to fight for – their love.
It has the same passion and heartbreak that is reminiscent of Ward’s earlier books and opens up new possibilities for our favorite characters *cough* - specifically Blay and Qhuinn.
Favorite Quotes:"I'm an angel first and a sinner second.""Life's meant to be lived blind - that's how you don't take shit for granted.""It was a universal truth among males that anytime you saw a guy get it in the nuts, you experienced a shot of phantom pain in your own croquet set.""Maybe he'd thrown a clot?
With a tragic past, she carried her burden quietly, barely living the life bestowed upon her.
She wanted to help Tohr find peace, but she had her own demons that needed exorcising.
It took him a long time to "get it" and along his journey of acceptance, he wasn't exactly my favorite person lol!
I hated Xcor when he was first introduced in the series, but he showed a different side of him in this book and I'm curious on how he'll evolve.Lover Reborn is a story of two people learning to accept their past and help each other to move on.
There are series spoilers up through book 10, so please don't read this review if you aren't looking to be spoiled.Why did I decide to add an additional note to this book in particular?
Yes, there are tons of extra character (side) stories that weren't there in the original books - BUT when you really think about it, the space that's being taken up for Xcor, Assail, the Shades, etc.
One of my biggest issues was feeling like Autumn and Tohr needed more of a spark - that it sucked not having him bond with Autumn in the way that he did with Wellsie - almost as if he would never love her the same.
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH I CANT WAIT TILL NEXT YR!!!...The Warden needs to surprise us with an early release later this year...come one PRETTY PLEASEEEEEEEEEEE  UpdateThe Warden always delivers! Outstanding characters creatively woven through well crafted events. Somethings I didnt always understand, or like but I appreciated the action-packed and emotional roller-coaster ride I escaped to for a few hours. She always cements with each new novel the extent of her writing prowess and as My fav write
Now the other characters like Xcor (view spoiler)[.....ammmm he tried to kill my Wrath...that is a huge no no (hide spoiler)] his attachment to someone I would not have ever dreamed would be possible or entered the scope of my imagination,but i have hope the Warden knows what she is about and the direction each character guides her.
(hide spoiler)]I WILL FOREVER DESPISE NO HATE WHAT THE WARDEN DID THERE, still boggles my mind especially with what happens to my love peas possible future in the end OK for the pièce de résistance; the last part with Blay and Qhuinn was freaking fantastic he quote
(hide spoiler)] unquote.OMGGGGGG *freak out mode* Unfortunately im hyperventilating and this will have to be the end of my review...Next Book CANT WAIT!!!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
5 hand-to-my-heart-and-tears-falling ~ STARS !!!! I loved this book !!!My Tohr❤❤ I will love one and only one female for the rest of my life. No matter what I do, who I'm with, or how things appear, you can take that shit to the bank, son. We clear?" Tohr broke my heart throughout this whole book. ( except for the one part where he took a stupid pill and ripped my heart out ....)The love of his life Wellsie had been killed earlier in the series. He was as devastated as if it happened just yester
I loved this book !!!My Tohr❤❤
I will love one and only one female for the rest of my life.
Tohr broke my heart throughout this whole book.
( except for the one part where he took a stupid pill and ripped my heart out ....)The love of his life Wellsie had been killed earlier in the series.
For her to rest in peace in the Fade....Tohrment must finally let her go......along with Lassiter's help....Wellsie can finally be at eternal rest.❤❤You with the sad eyes  come to Mama ~ I will help you heal your broken heart !
I won't review this. Nuh-uh. At least not until I stop wanting to do this to my copy of Lover Reborn And stop screaming like this And stop asking
release day at last and I can put my review up!Review also on: Under the CoversWe are now on the tenth Black Dagger Brotherhood book and I still love this series as much as I did when I started Dark Lover, for me this series never gets old.
When I first started reading though I never though Tohrment would need a book of his own, he already had his shellan, Wellsie, but shit happens and Tohr is now drowning in his own grief, which is not only killing himself, but is preventing Wellsie and his son from going to the Fade.
Background: Lover Reborn is the 10th book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series and is the story of the last original Brother, Tohrment, and the female character No'One. In the first 3 books, Tohr was the most stable of the Brothers as he was happily bonded to Wellesandra (Wellsie) for almost 200 years.
Lassiter, thinking Tohr shouldn't have to lose yet another person, goes to his Maker and arranges her return to the living (off page, with a sacrifice that is not revealed).
