https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65955.No_Promises_in_the_Wind
I read this book over 40 years ago when I was in grammar school.
I think it was on a shelf of paperback books in my classroom, up for grabs for anyone to read.
In any case, I still have the physical book in my possession.
I have a distinct memory of being the solitary student in the classroom, sitting there by myself reading this while the sun beamed through the large windows and the dust motes danced in the air.
I don't remember minute details of the book other than I enjoyed it so much that I read it multiple times.
I didn’t really feel effected by the book at all.Josh wasn’t a likable character at all.
I’m not talking about his treatment of his younger brother - he was actually a really good big brother in my way of saying it.
I don’t think we ever found out for sure if his wife ran off or died, but I feel bad for him either way.In summary, this was a mediocre book, and though it was good to learn more about the era and such, it wasn’t a great classic or anything.Kellyn Roth, Reveries Reviews
Her stories describe the human condition in a tragic, optimistic way.
She walks you through their world of heartbreak and struggle and then takes you to the other side with a better hope for their future.
No Promises in the Wind is set in the depression.
It is the story of two young brothers struggling to survive as they travel the country looking for hope, looking for a place to belong.
They grow up and experience the hard reality of the human condition in a hard time for the United States.
This may sound cheesy but it makes the depression personable.
This book takes you through the struggles of the Grondowski family living through the height of the Great Depression.
Joey who is eleven wants to come, but Josh feels he is to young for the long journey.
Living through the Great Depression has made Josh and Joey grow up very fast.I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in Historical Fiction and the times of the Great Depression.
This book will make you realize what you have and if you would be able to live through the Great Depression.
Because of the family's condition, the two sons, Josh and Joey(also the only sons), is forced to leave, to find some other ways to get a good future.
One thing I thought that was very important was when Josh was feverish, and pushed Joey onto the floor because he was being kind by sharing half of his bread with some lady that shared dinner with them(which was in poor condition as well).
Josh met Lonnie's niece Janey, where they felt in love.
The story ended with the family lived happily ever after and Josh and Janey carried on with their business.
Well-written and eye-opening about conditions during the Depression in 1932-33.
But this nice lady came along in the story and lent Josh and Joey a nice house that were she lives and a nice bed for them to sleep in and some soup to eat because of the little things they have eatin for however many days.
So they ate and then a couple days went by and they thought it would be nice to give something to her in return when they already have little to eat.
Joey goes over to the nice ladys house and decides to give the rest of the bread to her becuase she gave him and Josh food.
I read No Promises in the Wind by Irene Hunt. This book will take you back to the dirty thirties and give you a taste of what it might have felt like to live during that period. Josh and Joey are having troubles with their parents and decide to make a big decision. My favorite character in this book is Josh, Josh is a 15 year old teenager who dislikes his father very much. He feels like his dad, Stefan doesn’t care for him and loves Joey (his 10 year old brother) more. I feel bad for him because
My favorite character in this book is Josh, Josh is a 15 year old teenager who dislikes his father very much.
He feels like his dad, Stefan doesn’t care for him and loves Joey (his 10 year old brother) more.
I feel bad for him because him and Joey are leaving home to find a place to play music.
The best part in the movie is when Josh and Joey meet a man named Lonnie.
Lonnie is like a dad to them because he lets them go out to dinner and he pays for everything they need until they met Betsy at the diner.
In high school/middle school Irene Hunt was a popular choice for reading: No Promises in the Wind, Across Five Aprils, Up a Road Slowly.
So I wanted to go back and re-read No Promises in the Wind and also read some of the other titles I hadn't a chance to read.
I enjoyed watching Josh grow as he set out - optimistic at the promise of being on his own to discovering the realities that were hidden from him by his parent as to how bad it really was.
I also enjoyed Josh's character growth through the book, the proverbial becoming a man...
I thought that this book was good.
Joshes brother Joey and his friend Howie all ran away.
At the beginning Howie died because of a passenger train.they try to go south and they meet this guy named Lonnie.
He sends them south to Louisiana to try to get a job.
Then the carnival got burned down and then the boys had to try to find Lonnie.
So they went on a walk to Omaha Nebraska where Lonnie lives and on their way the boys get in a fight and Joey walks off and Josh is too sick to get up and passes out.
If you want to find out what happens read the book.
I do enjoy reading about this time period.
The thing is that some of the characters just did not seem very real.
Josh fell in love, what, twice in this book?
The only thoughts I saw come from Josh is that "She's funny," and "she's pretty." It seemed like he never really fell in love.
I totally ship Josh+Janey though.
So the story was pretty good, but it was very hard to get into it and relate to the characters.
I don't think I would recommend this for a read, but I wasn't disappointed in the end.
Depression years; teenaged boys out on their own; tough times; good story.
Boring t times but a good book overall
I find it an extremely simple, tedious, dull book. I did not enjoy it.
This book talks about the hardships america went through during the great depression.people became jobless and could no longer afford to fed their families.Conflicts arose in most families forcing children to run away from home and look for greener pastures but this was all in vain because no one was willing to support anyone who wasn't even family.josh had to come back to his senses , nomatter how hard times are there is no place like home
This book was AWESOME! I listened to in on Hoopla and it got to the point where I didn't want to stop listening. The only thing I regret is how short it is - I wish it was longer. The book is about growing up during the Great Depression and it really makes you appreciate all we have and take for granted. This is NOT a boring book, or a book you have to force yourself to get through -it is a very good story with plenty of characters that you end up caring greatly for.
Irene Hunt does an excellent of bringing the human condition into what was the Great Depression. Josh is a character that everyone can relate to and emphasize with. Hunt puts great emphasis on self reflection and hardship throughout the characters journey across America. Anyone with a heart can fall in love instantly with both Josh and Joey. Two boys who are just trying to make in times that no child should experience.
I decided to read the same books my sixth grade niece is reading in school. She wasn't real impressed with this book at first, but last time I talked to her she said it was getting better. I doubt I would have enjoyed this when I was in sixth grade, but I enjoyed it as an adult. It was obviously a quick read, but I enjoyed the story from an adult perspective.
Read by: Kaeli CarmichaelI liked this book because it was well written and really expressed how the characters felt. It really shows the hard times as these kids grow up during the depression. The only thing that I didn't really like about this book was the ending. It don't show how they all react and what happens.
A good historical novel for middle-grade readers and older. It's Chicago, 1932. Two brothers set out on their own after the older one has a disagreement with their father. Times are tough; food is scarce; father is unemployed. The characters are appealing and sympathetic. The writing is vivid and paints an accurate and moving picture of life during the Depression.
Two boys strike out on their own in a Depression-era story after the oldest son has a disagreement with his father. Their travels lead them to a carnival and gains them friends that help them survive along the way.
I read this decades ago and it stuck with me as my second favorite book from the Evergreen Park library. I can’t say what my adult self would think about it, but it has been with me all these years, and it was truly amazing.
An excellent young adult novel detailing the life of the "wild children of the road" during the Great Depression. Touching, tender, and a good read for those wanting a broader picture of the battles faced by "runaway" children.
Just discovered this author even though she wrote things quite awhile ago. This is teen type book but I thoroughly enjoyed it as an adult. Very good detail about the depression era and from the point of view of a teenager.
Great story, insightful and wise
This book was ok, I liked the details, and the plot. This book generally mediocre.
A look through the eyes of children and the Great Depression.
A solid story, yet somehow there was a wall up between me and the characters. I did appreciate the story between Josh and his father. 3.5 stars
Read for the Keyword reading challenge. My keyword was PROMISE.http://www.mysoulcalledlife.com/2017/...I enjoy learning about aspects of history I had never explore--this was one and I enjoyed it all the more, hearing it from a child's perspective. But the main character's evolution towards becoming a young man and learning to see his parents' perspective and to forgive really made this a wonderful coming of age story and not just a period piece that described the harsh challenges of living through the Great Depression.
At the beginning of the book it explains that Josh doesn’t like his father at all and Joey does.
The only thing is, she is way to old for him.So then the tents to the carnival start on fire and Josh and Joey have to go looking for Lonnie again.
Joey gave away some of there food and Josh punches him.
josh gets better and starts to fall in love with a girl named Janey.
Joey is happy and Josh is very sad because he has to leave the girl he loves again.
