https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93521.Imperial_Woman
It wasn't too long ago that I read Memoirs of Hadrian, another novel concerned with the fictional portrayal of a historical personage who ruled for much of their life over a vast and complex culture.
And with the feeling of reading truth, comes the ease of subsequent judgment and all too frequent condemnation.Thus, I could have tired of Buck's page after page of detailing the life of this young Manchu girl who grew to become the Empress of China, the traditional values, the cultural artifacts, the countless court proceedings that meandered as slowly as was needed to recount the days with full insight into the visual splendor and historical significance.
The Empress's rise to power (even during her husband's life) parallels the story of China's transition from the ancient to the modern way.My Review: Few women in China's very long history have been as well-documented as rulers as Cixi.
Her enormous elevation to the relatively modest in Imperial Court terms position of Imperial Concubine afforded Cixi the opening to become a powerful woman; her excellent fortune in giving birth to the Emperor's only son allowed her to move well beyond the considerable but constrained power of a favored concubine/consort into a full governing partnership as a Regent for her son, with a council appointed by her late Imperial master.Buck portrays Cixi as a schemer, but not a wastrel as she is often portrayed.
It cannot have been easy to create even a fictional character in such a lifelike fashion when the characters life depended on her keeping her thoughts and feelings to herself, and whose legend is blurred by rumours and superstitions that were rife during her reign, and where a breach of confidentiality or a breach of loyalty may well have carried a death sentence.I had some issues with the book after the first half, where the story dragged a little and where I got a bit lost in trying to figure out how and why Buck wanted to force a love story into a plot that was already filled with political intrigue, suspense, historical events, and fascinating tidbits about life at the Chinese court during the late Qing dynasty.
She lived in a crucial period of history, when China was struggling against encroachment while at the same time the need for modern reform was obvious.
It opened up a new world to me, reading about China's history for the very first time.
Ms Buck was not as good a writer as Ms Cather, but she was one of the biggest humanitarians of the previous century and she used her income from her books to change the lives of millions of children.
This historical novel was first published in 1956, some forty eight years after the death of the last Qing Empress Cixi (named “Tzu Hsi” in the book).
It tells her extraordinary life story from childhood to the time near her death.The author skillfully weaved intricate historical accounts of Cixi’s 47-year reign (her reign was in most part unofficial) which was marked by her tyranny, paranoia and xenophobia, with enthralling fiction that paints a lively portrait of her person, complete with colorful characterization and romantic love.
This is the story of Empress Tzu-hsi, who ruled the Manchu dynasty in China for 47 years.
She was extremely strong-willed and decided that she would become the Emperor's favourite.
She captivated the very weak Emperor, and ensured that he loved no other liked her, and even allowed her to rule the country in his stead.Tzu-hsi is one of the most complex characters I've ever come across.
Reading about the Forbidden city (where the Emperor was the only male allowed at night.
That said I will be reading The Good Earth by this Nobel prize winning author soon."You have chosen greatness," he said in her silence.
If you're writing an historical epic you can't confine your character to one location of such a vast country.
There are elements of all these things here, told in a wearyingly repetitive style with far more telling than showing.
There is some humor, particularly in the interactions between the Imperial Court and the encroaching westerners, but nowhere enough leaven to raise this thick a dough.The thing is, there is a better story to be told, if there is any truth to the Wikipedia entry on Cixi (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empress...), the real person Buck based this novel on.
I read this book for the first time when I was in fifth grade.
She encouraged me to read it thinking, I believe, it would keep me out of her hair for a month or so (as a kid this seemed a pretty fat book at the time.) She could not have been more wrong.
This book drew me to read a slew of Buck books that summer.
If you are looking for a complete history of the last empress of China this is not the book but if you are looking to learn some important facts about China at the time and read about a fascinating woman, I highly recommend this book.
Imperial Woman is story of the life of Tsu Hsi Empress of the early twentieth century, one of the most formidable and powerful women in China's history.
Coming from a modest background, she exploited her charm to seduce the Emperor, took power when he died, poisoned her own son, allied with a corrupt and cunning eunuch to seize control of the Qin dynasty, assassinated her opponents and signed a notorious treaty with the western imperialists, forever leaving a humiliating mark on china's history.
This might be my all time favorite book. It had historical properties, strong women, lots of descriptive scenery and well developed characters. I learned alot about China.
Generally it's my policy to finish a book whether I'm enjoying the journey or not, because often I'm surprised in the last moments, finding the author has brought all the elements of the story together in a brilliant finish.Such is not the case with Imperial Woman, by Pearl S.
Buck presents what should be a fascinating story about the last, and most famous, empress of China, Tzu Hsi. Instead Buck has taken the easy route and presented what is very nearly a Harlequin romance, instead of a tightly written novel rife with the subtleties and intrigues of the Imperial Court.
I thoroughly enjoyed learning about this era and this court culture, neither of which I knew anything about. The book is not always the easiest to read but what I took away from it far outweighs the sometimes slow reading and awkward sentences.
I enjoyed this book but not nearly as much as The Good Earth. I felt this went on too long!
I read this book 30 years ago, and it was interesting to come back to it now.
In the intervening years, I've read many excellent historical fiction novels by talented writers, such as Philippa Gregory, Margaret George, and Conn Iggulden.
As a result, I enjoyed "Imperial Woman" this time around a little less than 30 years ago.
Okay, sometimes she indulged in a rumor or two, but then her work wouldn't be historical fiction now, would it?I give "Imperial Woman: The Story of the Last Empress of China" an 8 on a scale of 10.二零一六年： 第十五本书
Buck das abenteuerliche Leben der letzten chinesischen Kaiserin Tsu Hsi, die als Konkubine an den Hof befohlen wurde und durch ihre Klugheit und Tatkraft zur Kaiserin emporstieg.
Mit Glück, Fleiß und List steigt sie zur Nebenfrau auf und wird später auch Kaiserin und Kaiserinmutter und lenkt über Jahrzehnte die Geschicke des Landes.
Ihr Versuch das Land weiterhin gegen Europäer abzuschotten gelingt ihr nicht und stürzt das Land immer wieder in Revolten und Kämpfe, aber sie schafft es den Thron für ihren Nachfolger zu halten.Das Leben in der verbotenen Stadt mit seinen starren Traditionen, die kaum Raum zur Entfaltung lassen wird in diesem Buch eindrucksvoll geschildert.
Første halvdel er hovedpersonen den her perfekte kinesiske dame der INTET forkert kan gøre - legit alt hun gør giver en følelse af at hun har set samtlige kinesiske konkubinedramaer og har tager noterne med ind i paladset.
Hvordan kan man have en affære med sin fætter og så få alle overbevist om at resultatet er kejserens?Så kommer der den anden halvdel hvor ALT hun foretager sig er fucking forkert og fucker hele landet op?!
All along the way, her beauty, intelligence and manipulative power enable her to survive crisis after crisis, reveling in the support and love of the Chinese people.It is a remarkable story of a remarkable woman, rising and ruling entirely in her own right.
She is also besieged by missionaries who wish to introduce a foreign religion, Christianity.The final words of the book give the key to her success: "'Well, well,' she said, and laughed to indulge them.
"Perhaps," she said, "perhaps—'"It was by taking after the reeds, always bending before the winds of change, but never breaking, that she was able to rule for so many years.
I really had to make myself power through this one.
I’m not usually drawn into plot lines that focus on politics or machinations with a court and this book had a healthy dose of that.
She was definitely a fascinating character but I found her very difficult to spend time with and very hard to relate to.
She was so motivated by power and so self isolating that I was often frustrated to the point of no longer caring about her or what her outcome would be.
Overall an interesting perspective and character study but not one I enjoyed.
I should stop rereading Pearl Buck. I remember that the first time I read her books, thousands years ago back when I was a teenager, I actually rather liked them, but now I think it must've been one of those embarrassing stages everyone goes through???? This was dull and annoying and cringe worthy and I couldn't wait to finish it.
I haven't read a Pearl Buck book since high school. This one was good but felt SO long. Maybe it was the small type in the library book. It was a well written account of the last empress of China who went by so many different names, I'm not sure what to call her! A long saga, but interesting from a historical perspective. Fascinating glimpse into what court life was like during this time.
حريم السلطان في نسخته الصينية.l'histoire de l'ambition intarissable d'une concubine de la ville interdite qui a su survivre à 3 empereurs et s'élever au seuil des dieux.
Buck had a novel about Cixi, I just had to read her version of this fascinating woman.
While the novel itself was interesting enough, from a historical perspective, I found the novel sorely wanting.In her forward for Imperial Woman, Buck says “Western writers, with few exceptions, describe [Cixi] unfavorably and even vindictively.” I find it amazing that Buck realized that at the time.
I’m not saying Cixi was perfect (as I have written before, her complexity is what makes her so amazing), but Buck’s portrayal was not the enlightened, balanced novel I was hoping for.
May you live in interesting times...This is the story of Tzu Hsi, who ruled as regent and Empress of China from 1861-1908, effectively the end of the empire, which collapsed just 3 years after her death.
For the major part of her reign, Tzu Hsi tried to hold back the tide of progress being forced on her by the various Western powers as they jostled to gain a foothold in this vast country.Pearl S Buck, as the short biography at the end of this new Kindle edition reveals, was the daughter of missionaries and lived in China for many years as both child and adult.
By far one of the most engaging and well-written works that I've ever read. Pearl S. Buck did not disappoint.
Who wrote about Chinese history and the empresses before Anchee Min?
Well before Anchee Min there was Pearl Buck.
There is nothing wrong with Anchee Min I have read her books and love them too.
She has a new book just released on 5-07-2013, The Crooked Seed.
So on to the review.This book was originally released in 1956.
It has been re-released 5-21-2013 as an e-book with a brand new cover.
While many people have heard of The Good Earth, there are many other Pearl Buck novels out there to be enjoyed.I think that I may have read this book a long time ago.
Pearl Buck's novel of the life of the Empress Dowager Cixi (1835-1908) is over long and written in over wrought prose.
This made the book extremely difficult for me to read an it took me forever to make it through its almost 400 pages.I know enough about Chinese history to know that Dowager Empress Cixi was an intelligent and ruthless palace schemer who, but the luck of having given birth to the only surviving male child of the Emperor, quickly maneuvered herself from position of lowly concubine to that of Second Consort, and then seized power in her own right and, through her arrogance and hubris largely caused the fall of the Qing dynasty.Buck, however, while showcasing Cixi's intelligence, also portrays her as a lovesick female over her kinsman and former lover, Jung Lu. Maybe this is because Buck in her own life developed a cult of the personality around herself and earned was regarded by many as being a spiteful and thoroughly disagreeable woman.
In this book we follow the life and political growth of the last Empress of China, Tzu Hsi. At times I was totally immersed in this story which is rich with the traditions, beauty and splendour of life at the court of Imperial China.
At other times I was repelled by some of the orders Empress Tzu Hsi gave to remove those she perceived as her enemies.
The history of the times was woven into the story alongside the hopes, dreams and fears of this ruler.
This is my first book of this author and I hope to read more of her works.
She captures the character, the time, the history, the intrigue, the glamor, and the uncertainty of the time in which Tzu Hsi ruled China.
After reading this I went and looked up all the information I could find about Tzu Hsi and it (especially the novel) is a simply fascinating story.
I appreciate the cultural perspectives that Buck has in her novel, and despite being a child of a missionary family - she takes a very realistic view of what Christian missionaries meant to and did to China at the time.
Make sure you google some pictures of Tzu Hsi after reading the book - there are several of her taken in the early 1900s and they're amazing.
This is the only book I've read about Tzu Hsi, the last Empress of the Manchu empire of China.
I found it totally engrossing.
Young daughters of the aristocracy are sent to the palace to be chosen as concubines for the Emperor and are selected by the Empress Mother.
Tzu Hsi is a fascinating woman who made some startling choices.
She lived a life of opulent privelege and was totally lonely.
The book leaves you wondering what kind of woman she really was.
Some say this book is highly inaccurate so I will go on to read others.
I was surprised that i liked this as much as I did considering it's the third book about the last empress of China I've read.
I love the detailed descriptions of all their beautiful silk embroidered robes.
I loved the details about the exquisite food and fabulous gardens, amazing architecture and palace treasures.
I swear I feel like I've been back in time.
The last empress of China is an historical person who will always fascinate me.
Brilliant, beautiful, moody, frustrated in love and politics but always landing on her feet, she was quite a lady.
