https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52762.The_Stories_of_Breece_D_J_Pancake
These 12 stories silenced the general clamour I carry around with me.
Few experiences can render me peaceable & sated, but with Breece D'J Pancake, this guy just surrenders everything, he is authentic, and as John Casey mentions, Breece absorbs, learns & ages everything he welcomes.
(While he lived).
Receiving that honest and embracing nature of his is a nourishing and often bracing experience.
The stories offer you a bruising.
The characters are deeply connected to nature, they are earnest when they choose to dream, they fill up on wild meat and whatever emptiness disguises itself as.
The prose is just his.
Ποτέ δεν μου άρεσαν ιδιαιτέρως τα διηγήματα.
Αυτή η περίπτωση όμως ήταν τελείως διαφορετική.
Καθένα από τα 12 διηγήματα ήταν πλούσιο σαν ένα μυθιστόρημα.
Εξαιρετικά ταλαντούχος ο συγγραφέας, ο οποίος από την πρώτη λέξη με έβαζε στο κλίμα της ιστορίας.Μου θύμισε σε αρκετά σημεία John Steinbeck.
Αντιπροσωπευτικό δείγμα καλής αμερικάνικης λογοτεχνίας, με την οποία αν και δεν είμαι ιδιαίτερα εξοικειωμένος, ωστόσο με συναρπάζει.
Πολύ προσεγμένη δουλειά από τις εκδόσεις Μεταίχμιο.
Για πρώτη φορά εντυπωσιάστηκα από τις σημειώσεις στο πίσω μέρος ενός βιβλίου - πλήρως κατατοπιστικές και ενδιαφέρουσες.
Θεωρώ, τέλος, ότι η μετάφραση ήταν άριστη, αν και έχοντας να κάνει με ντόπιους ιδιωματισμούς.
Η Δυτική Βιρτζίνια, η αγροτιά της, το κυνήγι, άνθρωποι που εργάζονται όλη τους τη ζωή σε χειρονακτικές εργασίες, που πίνουν, που σκοτώνουν, που κυκλοφορούν στις ερημιές των περιγραφών του Πάνκεϊκ και στη μικρή πόλη που επινόησε, το Ροκ Καμπ [που μου θύμισε λιγάκι τη μαυρίλα του Καστλ Ροκ του Στίβεν Κινγκ], αυτά είναι μερικά από τα στοιχεία των 12 διηγημάτων που απαρτίζουν τους Τριλοβίτες.Με τα Εν τω ξηρώ και Το κυνήγι της αλεπούς να ξεχωρίζουν, οι μικρές ιστορίες του βιβλίου μεταδίδουν άμεσα κάθε αίσθηση του κειμένου.
After all, to read Breece D'J Pancake is to know Breece D'J Pancake, and to know about him is to know about his death.
A self-inflicted shotgun blast to the head at age 26, and these twelve stories the only works he left; how can you ignore that?
Pancake's stories are honest--brutally so, at times--and he does not embellish.
It's as if he is familiar with the people and places of his stories (and he is, you'll learn--he really is), and, perhaps most importantly, he respects them, too.It is difficult to separate Pancake's stories from Pancake's life (and death), and it's almost painful to imagine what other stories he would have given us if he had lived longer.
He left us these twelve stories--and we should read them.
There is nothing uplifting about these stories.
Reading them had me feeling raw.
It draws you in and you feel the same desolation, and breathe in the same air…Haunting, aching, sad.
The crispness of the writing shows a depth of understanding of both the people and the natural landscape where it’s set.It saddens me to think that this little collection is all we have of Breece Pancake’s work.
It seems that he was a troubled soul, and this is what we have of those thoughts.I have to admit that a few of the stories I simply did not understand at all.
Sento che la mia paura si allontana in cerchi concentrici attraverso il tempo, per un milione di anni”.Questi racconti vivono di un'arida aderenza con le cose, con la materia e con la natura; sono cantati da un'anima fertile e ribelle, ripudiata nella razionalità e nel senso, composti in una prosa irrevocabile e stilisticamente autentica.
In questa prima traccia di buio le mie mani sembrano azzurre, ma non fredde; cose così diventano fredde prima o poi, ma per ora la mia mano è calda”.
The writing was brilliant, and I have a sense that there was a part of Pancake in every one of these stories, he knows his people and his territory well.
Breece Pancake's WV is clearly not the same place, and his characters are not people I would feel comfortable with at all.
It's really too bad that these 12 stories are all we'll ever have of him; as I said, the writing was brilliant and a wicked sense of humor was on display in some of them.Favorite story: (because of the humor) "The Salvation of Me"
There is buzzing energy as you hold the book, hot young blood pulses through it, its...Shit- Grit- and Mother Wit. I don't know what it is but in my hand it is some of the most powerful writing I have come across.
The stories are so finely crafted, edited to perfection, bristling with sensations.
I like to think that the raw and savage power in these stories came from Breece Pancake's desire to consume himself by attacking life with such passion and ferocity that he could not survive.
Enough for him to know to leave these perfect stories.
Ever buy a book for the poem on the first, unnumbered, page because the poem is so spot on you can hardly stand it?
And although Professor Dane taught you well and with certainty how to lift a page from any book, including those in fancy temperature controlled archival rooms--like the Huntington and the Bancroft and the Getty--you resist and buy the whole damn thing, in hardcover, even though you are fairly sure no one is watching, and even if they were with some spit and a string you could lift it anyhow.
I’m normally a fast reader, and the first story in this collection straight away got my attention and caused me to read on quickly.
The context of time and place is important to these stories, almost all of which feature male characters from rural West Virginia in the 60s and 70s.
Entrapment seems to be a common theme across a number of stories, especially in “A Room Forever”, “The Salvation of Me”, and “First Day of Winter”.
A powerful set of stories, but each was written separately and I think they might work better read that way, rather than as a collection.
Staggeringly brilliant stories on a level of achievement with Raymond Carver.
While alive, The Atlantic accepted a few of his stories for publication, but this posthumous collection brings together the work he was doing in the University of Virginia's creative writing program just before his death.
Most importantly, the introduction captures the deep respect MacPherson had for Pancake and inspires the reader to feel the same way after understanding Pancake's own battles.
The people of Pancake's stories are experts in their own right, can hunt, skin, brine, and eat a squirrel without too much thought, and are aware of and ripped apart by obligation, family, lust, and impossibility.
These are seriously impressive examples of outsider writing.Set in a rural and semi-rural world of West Virginia rife with poverty, this is a grim, one-note compilation (the complete opposite of Michel Faber's compendium of 16 stories, 'The Farenheit Twins,' that could have been written by 16 different writers) and yet that seems to enhance its power.
But in fact it is hyperreal, steeped in what feels like genuine, broken humanity, with Pancake's uncanny ear for dialogue and bleak descriptions of a land and a people of the margins, where life and death walk hand in hand.
I will come back to this collection again, always with a sense of wonder: what would the writer have achieved had he allowed himself to live beyond 26?
Breece D’J Pancake killed himself in 1979, aged 26, mere days before this, his debut collection of short stories was published.These stories roil with the secret histories, fossils, Indian bones, and of course coal embedded in West Virginia.
Not to mention memories, anger, and desire: everything bursting, erupting.
Pancake has a small cult of admirers but these stories have not received the attention they deserve.
They evoke the barren melancholy of the working poor of his native West Virginia (his own family was decidedly middle class), yes.
But one of the tragedies here is that this gifted young writer didn’t live enough, long enough, to burst free of such cultural gunk.
ona dokunmak, onu görmek istediğim kadar onu tatmak, koklamak ve duymak istiyorum.
eğer tarlalar tezek kokuyorsa bunu bilmek istiyorum.
eğer herhangi bir dağındaki suyu tatlıysa, ne kadar tatlı olduğunu bilmek istiyorum.
ilk ağızdan bilmek istiyorum.
eğer bir amerikalı olmam gerekiyorsa (ki öyleyim), kendi ülkemde küçümsenmek istemiyorum.
"annesine henüz on dokuz yaşındayken yazdığı bu satırlardan, kök saldığı toprakların pancake için ne kadar kıymetli olduğu ne kadar aşikar.
çocukluğunun ve ilk gençliğinin geçtiği tarlaları, madenleri, pislik içindeki barları, karşılaştığı hep kaybetmeye mahkum o erkekleri ve kadınları o kadar iyi biliyor ki, yazdığı satırlar berrak bir akarsuyun altındaki çakıl taşları gibi parıldıyor.
27 yaşında (evet o uğursuz yaş) intihar etmiş bir yazarın kitabı.amerika’nın güney’ine, edebiyatına bayılırım. pancake de o güney gotiği denen tarzın ustalarından.aslında öyküleri okuyunca intihardan başka yol bulamamış yazarı anlamak mümkün.batmış çiftlikler, rezalet madenler, hiçbir hayalini gerçekleştirememiş kaybolan gençler... kimi oto tamircisi kimi benzincide pompacı kimi 5 kuruşa dövülen boksör... hiçbir çıkış yolu yok, despot ana babalar, ölmüş ana babalar, kaybolmuş arkadaşlar... yitip giden hayaller...minimum betimleme, gerçek cümleler. çok ustaca. coğrafyanın yönettiği kader. ve keder.
Οι ιστορίες που εκτυλίσσονται σε αυτή τη συλλογή διηγημάτων περιστρέφονται γύρω από τη ζωή απλών, συνηθισμένων ανθρώπων του μόχθου, που εκτελούν χειρωνακτικές εργασίες, ασχολούνται με τη γη, δουλεύουν σε συνεργεία και ανθρακωρυχεία, έχουν για χόμπι τους το κυνήγι, βρίσκουν καταφύγιο στο ποτό.Η γλώσσα που χρησιμοποιεί ο Πάνκεϊκ είναι λιτή, τραχιά και μονότονη, όπως ακριβώς και οι ζωές τον ανθρώπων που πρωταγωνιστούν στις ιστορίες αυτές.
Μόνο κατά τη γλαφυρή περιγραφή του αγροτικού και επαρχιακού τοπίου διακρίνεται ένας κάποιος λυρισμός.
Εξαιρετικά τα περισσότερα διηγήματα της συλλογής, με τα "Εν τω ξηρώ", "Τιμή στους πεσόντες", "Ένα μόνιμο δωμάτιο" και "Η σωτηρία μου" να είναι αυτά που απόλαυσα περισσότερο, χωρίς τα υπόλοιπα να υστερούν ιδιαιτέρως.
Από τα βιβλία που διαβάζοντάς τα καταλαβαίνω ότι (πρέπει να) είναι πολύ καλά αλλά εμένα δεν με τραβάνε ιδιαίτερα λόγω είτε θεματολογίας είτε ύφους. Στη συγκεκριμένη περίπτωση το ύφος μου άρεσε πολύ, αλλά δεν με προσέλκυσε το θέμα. Δυτική Βιρτζίνια, αγρότες και εργάτες σε ορυχεία, δύσκολη ζωή που σκληραγώγησε και σκλήρυνε τους ανθρώπους, ατμόσφαιρα βγαλμένη από country μουσική ή και από καουμπόικη ταινία και κάτι από τον κόσμο του Μπουκόφσκι. Η μετάφραση εξαιρετική, ειδικά αν λάβει κανείς υπόψη του τη δυσκολία του εγχειρήματος λόγω της συχνής χρήσης τοπικών ιδιωματισμών.
Ίσως να άρχισα να γίνομαι παράξενη, αλλά με κάτι τόσο πολυσυζητημένο περίμενα το κάτι παραπάνω. Το μπακστόρι (η αυτοκτονία, το μυστήριο) δίνουν πόντους προκαταβολικά, δεν ήταν κακές ιστορίες βέβαια αλλά όχι και κάτι σούπερ ουάου. Πάει αρκετός καιρός που το διάβασα και δε θυμάμαι τίποτα πια. Οπωσδήποτε ένα συν στην έκδοση και τη μετάφραση που τη λες και άθλο - πάντα φαντάζομαι τους μεταφραστές σε βιβλία με ντοπιολαλιές και διάφορους ιδιωματισμούς να τραβούν τα μαλλιά τους απελπισμένοι (δε θα 'θελα να κάνω αυτή τη δουλειά με τέτοια βιβλία), κατά τα άλλα οκ.
C'è una sottile linea che unisce la grande letteratura americana al modo di raccontare di Pancake, un modo che se da una parte è tipicamente americano (il West Virginia si respira in ogni pagina, Pancake non fa niente per allontanarsi dai luoghi in cui è cresciuto) dall'altro è più nordeuropeo, proprio nel momento in cui sono i grandi spazi, e la natura in generale, a reggere tutti i suoi racconti.
E c'è un continuo senso di immobilità in "Trilobiti": non ci sono grandi avvenimenti, tutto quello che doveva accadere è già stato, e se qualcosa deve accadere durante il racconto allora Pancake ne allude sottilmente - ora c'è solo il protagonista e i suoi pensieri, immersi nella natura, ed è di questo che vuole raccontarci.
The descriptive language and some observations shine, but right now the only character I can bring to mind (even though I finished the book last night) is the first-person unreliable narrator of "Time and Again," which I read twice.
(He took the name "John" after his conversion, thus the initial J.) That left me wondering if any of his Catholicism might've crept into his later stories, though I can't recall anything that would lead me to that conclusion.
Μόλις είδα την θεματολογία του (American Southern) και ότι αυτά τα δώδεκα διηγήματα είναι τα μοναδικά που έγραψε πριν αυτοκτονήσει σε ηλικία 27 ετών, έβαλα αμέσως την ελληνική έκδοση στην wish list.
Προσωπικά μου αρέσει να διαβάζω ιστορίες για την αμερικάνικη επαρχία, είτε αυτές είναι απλώς δραματικές και μας δείχνουν στιγμές από την καθημερινότητα κάποιων χαρακτήρων που ζουν σε μικρές πόλεις, είτε είναι αστυνομικές με δράση, μυστήριο και βία.
Δεν έχουν κάποια ιδιαίτερη πλοκή, μέσω αυτών όμως μπορούμε να πάρουμε μια ιδέα για την πολιτεία της Δυτικής Βιρτζίνια την δεκαετία του '70 και την ωμή πραγματικότητα των κατοίκων της περιοχής αυτής.
The stories themselves are descriptions of good, flawed people--noble people--operating on tiny margins, making bruising marches through the human scree that accumulates when most everyone's scrapping to make ends meet, when most everyone's got their sights set, understandably, closer to their own feet than to the stars (yeah, "eyes on the stars" is a trite little formula; in "Trilobites", Pancake uses fossils to suggest what I'm fumbling for here, the terrifyingly abiding awareness of something impossibly distant but immediately apprehendable, and good).It might help if you've spent some time in Appalachia and have a non-ironic appreciation for the place.
This will definitely be a reread. I'm confident that Pancake knew his people and his place. One of the characters says something about, "there's no place to go but here." I'd say that's accurate for these stories. I'd also say this was probably autobiographical in nature but I can't say for sure. Pretty spot on if it's not. If you've ever watched the documentary on Jesco White, you might have a little insight on Pancake's people and place.
Τι βιβλίο μυο έφερε έντοντα στο νου τον Ντόναλτ Ρέι Πόλοκ, που με την συλλογή του Knockemstiff, μιλάει για τις μεσοδυτικές πολιτείες, βγάζοντας έναν ξεχωριστό, μα συγγενή ζόφο με αυτόν του Πάνκεικ.
Ο Παλαβός θα ευχόμουν να αναλάμβανε την μετάφραση των διηγημάτων του Πόλοκ, ολοκληρώντας τον διάλογο, όπως λένε, με τους συγγραφείς εκείνου του βασανισμένου τόπου.Το ερώτημα κατά πόσο είναι τόσο τεράστιο ταλέντο ο Πανκέικ όσο του αποδίδουν οι κριτικές που φτάνουν στα αυτιά μας είναι κάτι μάλλον αδιάφορο για μένα.
Αυτό όμως που έχουμε στα χέρια μας αξίζει να διαβαστεί από όσους αγαπάνε τις μικρές ιστορίες και ειδικά την Αμερικάνικη, καλή πεζογραφία.

Τι ωραίο βιβλίο.. Τι καταθλιπτικό βιβλίο... Μετά από αυτό καταλαβαίνω γιατί αυτοκτόνησε ο συγγραφέας! Αν η ψυχή του κουβαλούσε τόση απογοήτευση και θλίψη, δεν είναι παράξενο που αποφάσισε να εγκαταλείψει το πλοίο...Μη παρεξηγήσετε, είναι ένα εξαιρετικά καλογραμμένο και ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο.. Έχει την ποιότητα του παλιού ελληνικού ασπρόμαυρου κινηματογράφου κι ας μιλάει για τη Δυτική Βιρτζίνια. Βγάζει νοσταλγία, και κάποια από τα διηγήματα μπορεί να θυμίσουν ιστορίες παλαιότερων γενιών.. Ωστόσο, η μοίρα των ηρώων πολλές φορές φαίνεται προδεδικασμένη, χωρίς διαφυγή απο τη ζωή που τους επιφυλάσσει ο τόπος εκεί..Αν σε κάποιον αρέσουν οι συλλογές διηγημάτων, οι Τριλοβίτες είναι μια καλή επιλογή!
Δυνατές αφηγήσεις, σκληρές περιγραφές των ανθρώπων. Πραγματικά κρίμα που χάθηκε τόσο νωρίς.Εξαιρετική μετάφραση, - οι υποσημειώσεις στο τέλος του βιβλίου.
Occhi fissi su ciò che è sporco, scorretto, dolorosamente personale, Pancake costruisce un ricordo con cura, lo spolvera un po' e poi comincia a scavarci dentro a mani nude. Ed è una terra disgraziata perché arida con i suoi abitanti, la natura quasi estranea per quanto ogni giorno ripetuta nei suoi dettagli.
In una bella recensione anobiana (Alea) ho letto il termine di "fossili umani" (fossili come i trilobiti del titolo) che mi sembra perfetto per definire la condizione di questi personaggi: -immobili perché incapaci anche solo di immaginare una vita e un mondo diverso da quello che vivono, schiacciati, e verrebbe da dire stratificati, sotto il peso di generazioni, di padri che li hanno preceduti e di figli che li seguiranno.
