https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228258.Tribulation_Force
Absolutely fantastic. My first taste of christian fiction and it made me want to read the Bible again. It left me craving more and turned me back to the Lord. Thank you!!
They claim that this series is sexist, mainly because of the character of Hattie Durham.
And lastly, they claimed that this book is "offensive to anyone who isn't a born-again Christian." Well, I'm not.
But I also have more than half a brain to think with.The authors' theology does come on a bit strong -- but really, consider the source.
These authors are writing from their ideas and their life experiences, which surely are different from mine or yours.
Additionally, if you are trying to compare this fictional work with the text of the Bible, this series will come up short every time -- it is FICTION for a reason!
Oh Left Behind books, our time is through with each other.
I am going to send you all away from my house now.
I just don't know what to do with you, you are not worth selling on Amazon since you are so common you fetch no money, but do I donate you and live with the guilt that maybe some poor gullible lost soul buys you and is influenced to believe in this sci-fi bullshit that is passed off as truth?
I hate to throw books out, but you might just be heading towards the big recycling bin in the sky.
They know who the Antichrist is.
He takes things one step to far according to our Tribulation Saints when he proposes a One World Religion.
But these Tribulation Saints know what they’re up against; what they stand to lose.
When the Antichrist asks Buck to head the new Global Community-owned news outlet, Buck is left with no choice but to agree.
Faced with the moral dilemma of working for the Antichrist, both men agree they have no other option.
To give themselves up believers means announcing that their boss is the Antichrist.
But based on the recommendation of several friends, I picked up the second novel in the series and gave it a try.And while I liked Tribulation Force and it was a fairly quick read, I can't say that I was overly impressed by it.Please don't misunderstand me--the authors have done a great job of researching the end times as predicted in Revelations and creating a world in which those events are coming to pass.
Tribulation Force ends on a cliffhanger and it's enough of one that I'm curious to pick up book three and see how the events continue to play out.
3.5⭐️
While slightly better written than the first book (which is like saying steer manure is slightly better smelling than cow manure), this second helping of the "Left Behind" series suffers even more from lack of storytelling ability and imagination.
And once that is finally resolved, we are treated to a scene of synchronized cookie eating that sounds like some bit of smarm from a tween romance or "Sweet Valley High" book.
The rest of the book is about on the same par as we are treated to such clever witicisms as the old "I'm sorry." "Don't apologize!" "Sorry." and a reporter saying "...a lie announcement.
Also, the Jews are not only waiting for the messiah to return, which many believe has happened, but many chritians are still waiting for Elijah and Moses to return (which we believe has already happened)--but this reaction is just because of my personal beliefs.Also the Jewish scholar who does a 3 year study on prophecy of the messiah sounded exactly like a Christian Scholar.
This was a slightly inspirational part of the story but it was obviously scripted by a Christian author which made it less believable.I am surprised it took 1 1/2 years from the "rapture" until the world started seeming like it was receiving tribulation.Still a good novel.
After the first one, I didn't really want to chew through alot of political stuff.
While still slightly political, the action is much more fast paced.
Even religious leaders are taken in by his promise of world peace, overlooking the slight manipulations that those who've given their life to God (albeit a little too late as they missed the Rapture) can see.
The story moves quick and has several powerful moments.
While "Left Behind" sets the stage for the rest of the series, "Tribulation Force" gives it momentum and the urge to jump right in to the next book.
Enjoyed this one! Very interesting the way the story is unfolding. Loved the witness at the wall pet. However, I didn’t like the time jump at the end as I feel it skipped over some really important decisions that I would have liked to see come about in real time.
I found myself wondering if perhaps the authors (both males) were living vicariously through Rayford and wishing their relationships with their own daughters were so amazing.
A lot of times I kept feeling like I was stuck in an episode of Full House (a show I love and adore) which is great and all, but like I said just not totally realistic to me especially for two people under so much stress and trauma.2.
I understand this is a Christian book so relationships won't have that level of intensity or lust, but I didn't feel like it was so realistic either.
Tribulation Force is the second book in the Left Behind Series. The novel picks up a few days later from where Left Behind left off. The book was written very well and does a really good job portraying how events are occurring throughout the novel. The ending becomes very intense which prohibits you from being able to put the bookdown. Over all the book was extremely intense and is a excellent recommended read.ProsCharacter development Plot development Intense Clift hangersConsA bit slow at times
Another great book in the Left Behind series. This book continues where Left Behind ended. We follow Bruce, Rayford, Buck and Chloe as they further make sense out of everything that is happening.This series is pushing me to study Revelations.A series to be read in order. Recommended for readers interested in the end times and who would like to break open Revelations.
Uber fun.
20 years ago, when these books first came out, I was working in an office in Lexington, Ky, with a large number of evangelical type folks.
I guess they thought, "Hey, let's recommend them to that Heathen girl." (<--that's me, your humble narrator.) The first book was no great shakes and nothing was going to onboard me with the End Times philosophy, but it did have a certain compelling flow.
It spawned 16 books in this series alone.
And there's a video game series where the players can either pray at or shoot non-believers.
I wouldn't normally "review" a book I hadn't read, but I feel it's only fair in this case because publishers shouldn't produce a book that hasn't been written.My mother, knowing that I'm a science fiction fan, sent me a big box full of these books, hopeful (apparently) that I would read them and share her great joy in their riveting depiction of the events in the book of Revelation as they unfold in a near-future (apparently not May 2011).
I made it through the first chapter before I needed to stop and patch the hole in the wall where I threw the book.Why don't I like them?
Here is a great sample.
Right wing fundamentalist crap.Prose is awful, characters pure idiots without any depth.God of LaHaye and Jenkins is no better than Hitler,Pol Pot or Stalin.Who the hell could belive in such an asshole.
Noooooooooo
This one actually got a little more interesting to me.
I read what I did of this series because it was one of the few books my then-husband would read, and I wanted to be able to discuss books with him. I won't be reading more of these books, or re-reading any of the ones I already read, and reading them didn't help give me and my ex-husband anything interesting to talk about anyway since he didn't want to hear the ways in which my opinion on the series varied from his.
Adventures of some post-apocalyptic superheroes18 August 2012 There are two problems with me mentioning what happened in this book and it has something to do with having read it a while ago and wanting to actually put the book out of my mind. What I can say is that the book continues from where the last book finished where the main Christian characters decide to form some elite commando group called the Tribulation Force to go and tell as many people the gospel of Jesus as possible. A noble idea
What I can say is that the book continues from where the last book finished where the main Christian characters decide to form some elite commando group called the Tribulation Force to go and tell as many people the gospel of Jesus as possible.
I have had rabidly anti-Christians come to me and tell me that I am one of the best Christians that they have known, and with that, I feel that my role in their understanding of the gospel has been successful.
The second is that there is a focus on the rapture that could happen at any time, so we need to be prepared.
If the whole series of the "Left Behind" books were not based on a very deceptive teaching that was 
There is a lot that happens in the book, though, which I think helps move it along (despite the large number of conversations that occur throughout the book).Some things that stood out to me (and not necessarily in a "positive" way): (view spoiler)[Rayford is "finally" described as having "bad days" where he struggles with his "lost" family, where he is described as missing his wife and son Had there been a greater amount of time elapsing between the two books, I could probably accept it more.
Much like the first book this one will keep you involved in the story and characters, there is some time that is unaccounted for within the book, but overall has set up a great story filled with study of the prophecies and how they could come about.
The Tribulation Force allows you to see the characters grow in their walk with Christ during a time where the world is in chaos and their search for the truth.
Take these as a grain of salt as only one interpretation and be sure to read the book of Revelation and studying the book yourself before committing the Left Behind Series as how things will turn out.
This is a great book. In this book Buck Williams, a reporter for GNN, is working on spreading the good news. After Nicolae Carpathia asked Buck to join his team, Buck has to chose his decisions carefully because if he picks poorly, Nicolae might find out his secret. While this is going on the rest of the gang are trying to recruit more people to become Christians to join the tribulation. This is an exciting sequel to the book Left Behind; I loved it. This story has a great plot and I hope you e
This is a great book.
While this is going on the rest of the gang are trying to recruit more people to become Christians to join the tribulation.
This is an exciting sequel to the book Left Behind; I loved it.
Now I suggest you read the first book Left Behind before you read this one.
I actually enjoyed this book more than the first one.
Tribulation Force was more intriguing than Left Behind in my opinion.
The Bible speaks of the tribulation in Revelation and that is exactly what it depicts in this book.
I enjoyed this book very much and can't wait to read the next one.
It was repetitive and boring.
The repetitiveness didn't end.
I get wanting to share your faith, but at the cost of pushing people away?
At the cost of repelling them from Christianity forever?
His character is the epitome of why the world holds us Christians in ill regard - pushy and judgmental.
The other characters weren't as bad, thank God. Buck is the realest one among them, and I actually enjoy reading his sections.
Of course, I said the same thing at the end of Left Behind, but third book's a charm?
After reading Book One of the "Left Behind" series, I read the second book "Tribulation Force" hoping it would be better than the first one.
Book Two was great for me because it moved faster and had a stronger story line.
If you're a religious reader and you want a good series, even though I have only read two of the books I would definitely recommend this series.Book Two in the Left Behind series was great.
The group of four who call themselves the Tribulation Force move closer to the signing of the treaty.
Even religious leaders are taken in by his promise of world peace.
They require as a necessity of their telling a certain amount of interprition, for example, who the "Beast" will be, where he will arise and so on.
I am a Christian and believe that the Book of Revelution is in the Bible for a reason, Like I said, i'm just not sure of some of the literalness here.
they could very well be right, but I I'll wait and see.The real reason I give only 2 stars here is for poor story telling.
I just don't think the books are quite that good.
Massive improvement over book one. To be honest I wanted to give it five stars, because it was a very interesting mix between political thriller and a Christian story, with fantastic dialogue and cute romance - however the ending was way too rushed.Review in Bulgarian here:http://citadelata.com/tribulation-for...
Although I am of a secular world view, I admit the hype surrounding this series sparked my interest.
This spark quickly expired and I am confident in saying I will not be reading any materials from LaHaye and Jenkins again.
I read this book shortly after completing Left Behind.
I found Left Behind to be somewhat entertaining and thought, well, let's give the rest of the series a go.
About half way through Tribulation Force I regretted this decision and cursed my inability to put abandon a book once I've started it.The storyline between the characters in this series is painfully dull and reeks of those "after-school-dramas".
