https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/641633.City_at_World_s_End
Written near the dawn of the Cold War era and soon after mankind first became aware of the fearful possibilities of the atom bomb, "City at World's End" yet remains both highly readable and grippingly entertaining today, more than 65 years after its initial appearance.
The moon is now enormous, the stars are visible in the daytime sky, and the lab scientists, by analyzing those changed star patterns, soon come to realize the impossible truth: The city of Middletown has somehow been blown, via a rift in the time-space continuum, millions of years into Earth's future!In the book's first section, Dr. John Kenniston and fellow physicist Hubble explore their devastated surroundings, only to discover an abandoned city protected by a hemispherical dome.

I read this years ago & it was pretty good.
Listening to it as an audio book read by Mark Nelson was a treat.
Nelson is as good as most of the commercial readers out there & by far the best Librivox narrator I've ever listened to.
He's read a lot of books in this genre, too.
They're free on Librivox.org https://librivox.org/reader/251?prima...as are some of Hamilton's books on Gutenberg.http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/autho...Hamilton is a latter day ERB in my mind.
Fairly simple thematically, predictable in plot, it was still a lot of fun.
Audiobook.Be careful reading other Goodreads reviews for this novel as some toss spoilers out in their questions or dissatisfaction with the plot.That said, I am 6 chapters in (listening via narrator Mark Douglas Nelson's SciPodBooks podcast which releases a chapter a week) and am fascinated by this story.
Ok. What do they expect?Looking past that, though, is the "end of the world" concept which is undertaken in a surprising way.
And I didn't think I could be surprised by such things anymore, here in the future 60 or so years later.
Fascinating read - both the concept (which I'll leave to the reader to discover) and the amusing thoughts on what the future will be like as perceived by someone in the 1950's. Some interesting messages in the book about sentimentality, fear and happiness. I certainly enjoyed it.
I loved this novel the first time I read it as a young man. I own two copies and have read it about half a dozen times. Recommended.
This is nice old-fashioned science fiction novel from Edmond Hamilton. It has the time-and-space-sprawling-cosmic-sweep-grandeur thing going for it, though it isn't as much fun as the Captain Future books or as fast-paced and adventurous as the Star Wolf novels. It would have made a good movie in the 1950's, though it hasn't aged well; the relationship between the protagonist and his wife is particularly wince-worthy.
Pseudo-science (or whats a step below pseudo-science?) like this is why I LOVE pulp scifi.Things I liked: 1950’s humans don’t get along with space-humans, but get along fine with what appear to be crustaceans and werewolfs from other planets.
You see the same double-sided issue to females in his other work The Stars, My Brothers.Things that confused me: Why the humans refused to move to a new planet.Still standard pulp scifi, and I felt a thoroughly entertaining read.
It’s a story about a little rural community in the US heartland having a “super-atomic bomb” go off above it, causing a rift in time, catapulting said city into the far future, and the fight of its citizens to remain on Earth.
After all, this novel is (at the time of this writing) 58 years old.
But I’ve chosen the book for exactly that reason (also I was told it had spaceships) — I wanted to know what successful scifi was like in the 50’s of the last century.
Said rural community, called Middletown, leaps one million years into the future.
The writing was pedestrian, though nowhere near as bad as some of the contemporary novels that I've read lately.The story was engaging.
It contained aspects of time-travel and meeting of other races.
The evil race in the future is us, though not all of us.
The humanoid races, there were none that weren't, were more good.
Still, the storyline was fun.I read it because it was free in an app called Free Books on the iPad. If it weren't free, I wouldn't recommend it.
Despite the story and adequate writing, it can only get two stars with its sad attitude towards women.

The population find themselves on a planet with a dying sun.
When a spaceship offers to evacuate them to a different planet, the people refuse.
This is a quick and interesting read, but I had problems with attitudes.
The survivors are a backward, provincial society with antiquated attitudes about gender role models.
Like the role models I grew up with and happily left behind.
This is more a what-if novel, short on character development, especially when it comes to crowds and females.
Written in 1951, I see we've come a long way, baby.
This is a really old one which I read. Although it is listed as an audiobook, I don't do those. I need the pages to turn. I enjoyed although it did seem dated. But then so am I.
Nonetheless I pushed on until chapter six when the author threw down this line regarding the mc's irritation at his fiancé because of the "inability of the female mind to grapple with the essentials of a situation".
Now I get that the book was written in a different era, when a woman's place was in the home.
Did the author have to present all the women in his book as hysterical simpletons?
And apparently there are two roles for women in public domain sci fi (on the rare occasion the author notices that there is more than one sex) - the helpless female, and the sex symbol.
This has been a depressing review of a depressing book.
These people were so homebound that watching the moon launches would have caused them heart attacks and nightmares!The story uses the idea that adding heat to earth was all it would take to make it habitable.
So the science was not sound.I guess I liked it because it was a good story for action.
The author was good at what he did,If he wasn't there was enough goofy things to make ths book fall appart.And I guess Keniston is in the end free to chase the space chick (didn't see that coming did you?)
City at World's End by Edmond Hamilton from 1951 is an old fashioned science fiction novel that is still entertaining, but not quite good.
If you love old 1950s SF, this book is fun enough, but like many SF books back then, is short, just a barely fleshed out idea.
Earth is growing cold, and all the humans have left for the stars.
Hamilton's writing isn't very literary, and the style is closer to pulp fiction, than the better SF/F books of the time, like Earth Abides by George R.
I listened to City at World's End on YouTube while I was doing data entry, and it was entertaining enough.
Imagine just going about the day with your usual procedures, then suddenly you've been catapulted some centuries into the future... Well these are the adventures of the people from a small community called Middletown. After a nuclear explosion, from which the town is strangely spared, everyone ends up about a million years ahead of the time they know and they re seeing the rest of earth dying around them... But soon they meet some advanced races and their only thoughts are those of survival...
Great perspective on the cultural environment in the early 1950's. It is also interesting in its perspective on technology and what will happen in the future. It makes clear the difficulties on predicting technological advancements.
great read
I bought the Kindle edition (99 cents) of this 1951 sci-fi novel after reading reviews of it from my Goodreads friends and people I'm following.* * * * *It was good, and didn't seem too dated.
Can a "super atomic bomb" move an entire city millions of years into the future? A clever writer can make a good story out of a preposterous idea. The story pulled me in and kept me in.
The world as you knew it is dead and lifeless and you face the horror that you are alone on a dying planet.In Edmond Hamilton's book City at World's End a small Midwest American town finds themselves lost millions of years in the future due to a freak nuclear attack.
The grief, strength, hopelessness and hopefulness of individuals in this small town is shown in very honest and nonjudgmental ways.
Fears are shown to be human while still being things to overcome.One of the great strengths of the book is that it avoids descriptions of modern technology that could date it.
In my first time reading a novel by Hamilton, it was immediately clear to me that he understood what makes for a good science fiction story.
The science part is easy; it is the portrayal of the human (or other species’) condition that is difficult to make known to the reader.
Hamilton recognizes how humans frequently fluctuate between hope and despair, the tragedy of loneliness, the conflict of loving two people at once.
This novel is about much more than atomic warfare that leads to unexpected results—it is about how far we will go to salvage what we are, whatever that may be.
Highly readable (or listenable in my case) science fiction novel from the 1950s that holds up remarkably well in this day and age.
It really does not feel overly dated and the speculative fiction story it tells drew me in from the first chapter and held my interest throughout.
If it wasn't for the eye-rolling and slightly offensive views towards women, it wouldn't feel that out of place among today's science fiction.
Without giving anything away, I don't think humans in today's world would exhibit quite the same behavior if thrust into a similar situation.
It's not as good as his Star Kings novels, but this is a good read.
The premise is that a "super atomic" bomb is exploded over a midwestern U.S. town and instead of destroying the town it sends it millions of years into the future.
The sun has turned into a Red Giant that produces very little heat, and even the Earth's core has grown cold.
To survive the inhabitants of the town must move to a domed city that was built and then abandoned by people of this future time.
Pretty much everyone in the town uses coal for heating, for example.
This is one of my all-time favorite books!
Many modern readers don't know of Hamilton, but he was an amazing writer in his day, and this book is one of his best.
I like it so much that I teach it in my high school Science Fiction class.
Some people criticize it because it has some stereotypes (like the idea that women get hysterical too easily), but there's also a very strong woman character, so you could say he was ahead of his time.
Either way, it doesn't ruin the book; in fact, it kind of adds to the fun of reading old stories like this.
Old science fiction and a curious window into the lonely life of a 1950's misogynist. Even amongst books of its time (that have survived), it stands out in this sense. Every chapter contains a line like, "He felt a terrible pity for her, which almost smothered his irritation at the inability of the female mind to grapple with the essentials of a situation." This is how the protagonist views his own wife. The SF story is fairly pedestrian, and a typical example of WWII-influenced American SF. But a quick read and an original plot.
I read this book from a copy of Startling Stories which I found online. This story starts well - a small US city is transported into the far future by an atomic blast, and must work out how to survive in a very different world. I found the first part of the story to be interesting enough, but from about chapter six (when they find other inhabitants of this future world) the decisions made by the protagonists become less plausible and the story less engaging.
Great space opera from the 1940's. The town of Middletown, Anywhere, USA has a secret facility for atomic research and so is a target in a nuclear war. But the nuclear blast when it comes, instead of destroying them, blasts them millions of years into the far future when the earth is a very different place. They discover an abandoned city and eventually contact people of the future. And the story takes off.
The book was a nice escape. I really enjoy retro SciFi and this fit into that genre rather nicely.Perfect? No. But it is a short book so don't expect in-depth character development like you might in a Stephen King novel. Speaking of King, I wouldn't be shocked if he had read this and it influenced one of his stories. In particular, Under the Dome (and no, isn't the same as that).I could see Hollywood making a TV series from this and messing it up.
