https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27530.The_Remnant
Features one of the most awesomely-bad sentences I've ever read: "The perverse nightmare of the sheer volume of it lay atop him longer than the orange ball rode his eyeballs."
It is filled with action and suspense.
It is filled with countless surprises, and never failed to keep me guessing and wanting more.
They had more of a tone of victory mixed with some timidness, rejoicing mingled with a little fear, longingness for home intertwined with shyness toward the unknown, yet the Christians lived and died in a wonderful hope!
No, this book was not dark, it was filled with the light of LIFE and the joy in serving Jesus!
I thought this was a very good and enjoyable end times novel, and I hope to be able to read the rest of the series very soon!
3.5/5 The beginning and the end were really engaging and fun to read, but the middle lagged for me. I’m really anticipating the next books though!
The Great Tribulation continues and the Tribulation Force is now scattered all over the world as they lose their safe house.
Various members go on different missions and the group at Petra continues to bask in God's favour and provision.
Then, the second half sped on, flying through different tribulations like darkness, sun flares, etc.
I felt like the authors were trying to rush through the plagues/tribulation.
I'm still trying to figure out why they have Leah as a character since no one likes her or gets along with her.
Your character should use his special skill to do something and propel the plot further instead of "This guy's going to be in trouble!"*God saves him* All is better.
I know that in Revelation a lot of those that didn't accept Christ DO suffer, but from the non-Christian view, no one would want to read this.
But in order for non-Christians to be warned this way, they'd have to read the book.
No non-Christian would though.
You'd have to make Christianity seem as forgiving as it really is or the plot would have to be awesome.
I started reading this series for the fiction appeal and really enjoyed the first 4 or 5 books.
I kept reading them because I felt that I needed to finish the story and up until now I have enjoyed them a little.
In between sermons the characters were put in impossible situations that they keep getting out of because they are being protected by God. Things like bullets and missiles shooting through planes no matter what they do doesn't appeal to me because the characters lost their cunning adventurous nature from the previous books.
In general I have been enjoying this series, but this one seemed kind of like the authors just threw it together.
Every few chapters, you get an update: "Four years into the tribulation..." "Five years into the tribulation..." "Six months later..." and so on.What I like about the Left Behind series is that it makes the book of Revelation easier to understand.
Left Behind, even if it isn't the best interpretation of Scripture (and I know it's not), makes it easier to understand.
I also somewhat admire the way the authors are able to portray the Antichrist.
I once found this book at Costco and decided to read it, even though it was the tenth book in the series and I hadn't read the nine books preceding it. It was okay. At the time, I didn't know it was Kirk Cameron's love child. If I had known that, I would have read it with a more critical eye. Still, it wasn't super preachy, so I didn't hate it.
More of the adventures of the righteous in the days after the rapture. Competently written fantasy that is meant to be taken literally. I couldn't bring myself to force down another of these, so stopped here.
There were definitely some Sci-fi type qualities to the events of this book, but each was supported in Scripture. so grateful I won't be here for these events, thanks to the grace of God in saving me!
We read these books in the safety of our homes, where we are not currently at risk of losing our lives over whether or not we are a Christian or have taken a mark (well, in the United States of America, anyway), and it is not 'easy' to relate to what these characters are going through, what they are experiencing, as the world continues to fall apart around them.A few other things: (view spoiler)[They have Michael the Archangel appear, again, to rescue some of the Saints from certain death.
Yes, it's a series about what will happen if you are not saved and ready to meet Christ and yes I expected to see a lot of scripture.
Why not consider, Jenkins, that part of the appeal of your series is your topic: it might also appeal to those who are already saved and just want to see the good guy finally win in the end!
Why not consider shortening the series if you're so desperate for material that you feel the need to fill each book with over-description and preaching, redundancies, and plot events so contrived as to make The DaVinci Code actually believable.Not impressed.

This was actually a good story,with alot of action.I enjoyed reading it.The fact that people actually believe this is going to happen is a little disturbing to me though!I've been approached by enough religious zealots,with their shiny crazed eyes to be disturbed!But it's good fiction and worth reading.
This was the 10th book in the Left Behind Series. Overall the book was extremely intense and very hard to put down. A must read that should be on everyone's to read list.ProsIntenseSuspenseCharacter/ Plot interactionClift hangers Writing style Cons Nothing
Read all of these years ago. Loved all of them.
This is such a long sega, I wish that they could have put a few of the books togeather. I am starting to get board when I should be so elated that I have only one book left.
There are some emotional moments in the series.
And you would think that it would have a more Jewish feel if they are going to present Christ’s to juice it sounds more like a protestant upbringing.
Like I said it sounds more protestant than anything.
I guess in some places it’s like preaching to the choir at least when I’m reading it.
He does a good job of presenting the Gospel but like I said from a mainly protestant perspective.
And where is the baby always sleeping ?
this is not a real baby :-) how convenient could that be :-)
Starting this review is well, easy to say the least.
I started reading the first book in this wonderful series just as soon as I heard about them.
Being from a christian home life growing up and as well as my husband and family this was a no brainier.
I am going to do one review including the whole series.
From the first page of the first book to the last page in the last book, I was not able to put these books down.
This series, although some would call fictional, I believe are very close to what will:To read more of my review: https://breathoflifebookreviews.blogs...
Anyone who is ten books in to a series should know what to expect and The Remnant holds no surprises.
The usual structure is exaggerated in this entry, with the first half following one event, without any tension or enjoyable action, whilst the latter half picks it up a bit.
If the authors could have used this style across the series, it would have been six books shorter and more enjoyable for it.
The Remnant is a vital stepping stone in the series however it offers very little character development and overdoes the sermons somewhat.
Both the little boy and little girl are missing parents have no clue were they went outta panic the try to get a search party to find both of their kids.
The entire town in panic of the two missing kids and they are all trying to find them.
During the movie the boy goes missing and his family tries so hard to find him but he is lost and needs them.It relates because people go missing alot and no one can find them.
This was my least favorite so far, mainly because it got confusing. Not theologically but all the characters were off on different missions and it was hard to keep track with their aliases and what not. I had to keep going back to see who was who and who was in disguise as what person/name/title, which kind of threw me out of the story. But it is still engrossing and I look forward to the next one.
I assume as its the tenth book in the series anyone reading this review will know what to expect. This book is more of the same. Its not terrible and has some good action set pieces, but the preaching monologues are literally chapters long and it's the same message over and over. I understand within the context of the book it's always going to be a salvation message, but as a reader these could be shortened. As with all these books after the first couple, a good editor would do wonders.
All of these "left behind" books are great. They are so interesting that you just want to keep reading.I have read the other 9 as well. Only have 2 left to go, I believe. I really like that the authors do not feel it is necessary to print foul language. They might refer to someone using this type of language but they do not include it in their books. The suspense and twists in this book were great!
Even though I am so ready to be done with this series (two...more...books...), they are still very enticing and they teach me new words. This book's vocabulary list:-obsequious -cloying-boondoggle-aquiferThat's how you know you're reading a quality book
AmazingLove this series, I would recommend to everyone! God our Saviour has warned us, take up your armor and follow him. Let Christ be King, Ruler of your life. The time is of hand.
This is my 2nd time reading this entire series. My younger sister, now passed, introduce me to it back in 1999 and my life was forever changed. I felt like I could use a life change again and thought I’d go through this amazing journey in revelations.
Focuses on the necessity of making a choice for Christ. The world is divided between followers of the Lord Jesus and followers of the enemy. The few undecided must make a choice as God's prophetic promises continually come to fruition.
More people die. More people saved. More people make the wrong choice, selfish desires/fear over salvation. Who will survive to Glorious Appearing and see Jesus? How much more evil can Carpathia and his compatriots dish out?
Love the seriesAt this point in the series you know what you’re going to get. It’s a phenomenal book that is hard to put down. With two more book remaining in the series I find myself hopelessly trying to figure out what I will read when I’m finished.
