https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40386.A_Fighting_Man_of_Mars
This is the high water mark of the series, both in terms of imagination and the sophistication of the story telling.The villain of this story is a power mad tyrant who plans to conquer all of Mars using a combination of super science and an uncountable teeming horde he has built up through a program of forced breeding.
And, as usual, he manages to do this while writing an entertaining, easily readable adventure story filled with wonder and imagination.
Either this or Chessmen is probably my favorite non-original-trilogy Barsoom book.
Tan Hadron of Hastor is, of course, tall, clean-limbed and a dab hand with a sword; he's also, in some aspects of interpersonal relationships, dumb as a box of hammers.The set-up is pretty much what you'd expect -- a search to far corners of Mars for a kidnapped woman, during which he has all manner of adventures, including a visit to Ghasta, one of the more horrifying interludes in one of these books.
There's also again more of a science fictional element to the story, with a genuine mad scientist on stage at various point.(view spoiler)[And if you saw the movie and wondered about the blue-painted airships and the disintegration rays, here's where they first appeared.
Tan Hadron has no more connection to John Carter than being a cousin of his son-in-law -- and being in his service in Helium.And he's in love with a rich and haughty woman, Sanoma Tora, in Helium, but his connection means she has entre to the royal palaces there in his company, and she graciously consented to let him escort her.Then she's wooed by the agents of a Jeddak, and she will take him as long as he makes her a Jeddara.
Which lets some green Martians open fire on his flyer and do enough damage to force him to land.
This is the story of Tan Hadron as related by Ulysses Paxton, the hero from "Mastermind of Mars", as Tan Hadron seeks to rescue the beautiful but shallow princess Sanoma Tora.
In the course of his quest Tan Hadron befriends Tavia the slave girl who assists him in rescuing Sanoma Tora.
When the princess of his desire proves herself unworthy of his love, Tan Hadron accepts Tavia's love instead, and she (surprize-surprize) turns out to be a princess herself.These stories are not high art, or even good sci-fi/fantasy; but they are terrific yarns with exotic Barsoomian locales, fantastic beasts, flamboyant princesses, dastardly villains, and cliff-hanging adventures in which the hero gets the girl and the bad guy meets his (or her) just deserts.I've read and re-read these stories over the years, and even recorded them onto DVD for the local radio station for blind and reading-impaired listeners.
It starts to feel a bit of a chore to keep going with this series.
They're still irreverent, campy, fun.
But, Burroughs really seems to struggle for a new plot device.
Each time our hero is in love with a beautiful – but unavailable – woman.
She gets kidnapped by hitherto unknown baddie (or entire hitherto unknown species of baddies) and our hero has to go on a lengthy quest to save her (possibly realising he's not in love with her after all).
And you can't claim you didn't know what you were getting into, you've read six of them now already after all.
This IS a big book in the Carter series, as I have said, and Burroughs throws in everything but the proverbial kitchen sink to entertain the reader.
Whereas previous books generally featured two or three enemy nations and their leaders, this book has a full six: the dead city of Xanator, with its fierce green warriors; the city of Tjanath, with its despotic ruler Haj Osis; the volcanic realm of Ghasta, with its bestial ruler Ghron; the castle of Jhama, home of the mad scientist Phor Tak; the province of U-Gor, with its cannibal inhabitants; and last but certainly not least, the nation of Jahar, led by the power-crazy Tul Axtar.
The Fighting Man referred to in the title is Hadron of Hastor, a soldier of Helium. When the woman he loves is abducted, Hadron sets out in pursuit, leading to a grand adventure.Burroughs once again proves himself a master storyteller, even though some of his plot twists strain logic. But if you are willing to go along for the ride, it's an exhilarating journey.
This is the seventh Barsoom book, and still this book is a pleasure to read.
It is difficult to realise that this book was written about 100 years ago.
In this book the "I" is a native Martian (although his way of thinking is very "earthly" and this, but only this, could be a minor point of criticism) and once more John Carter plays only a very small role.If you like this kind of books, read it!
This is in fact one of the best Barsoom books.
What I am certain of, is that I will read them all!
Great story.
The hero in this story is Tan Hadron who is a minor noble who falls passionately in love with a noblewoman who rejects him.
Tan is called upon to rescue her and would be considered worthy of her.
Later he meets up with a strong willed but very passionate and devoted slave-girl named Tavia.
In the end I loved what happened.
Especially the great battle.
Tan proves to be just as noble a hero John Carter and Ulysses Paxton are.
The only problem of the story is that it does drag at a few points.
Another good addition to the mars series. This one was a little more drawn out that the previous book. It had a slightly different type of ending compared to the other books, so that was a nice edge, though you could easily see it coming from 1/4 way through. It doesn't live up to the first 3 in the series, but it's still a good one overall.
It's been so long since I've read these books that the details are lost in the mist of time. That said, I'm sure there are variations in the quality of story and prose throughout this series (it's Burroughs, after all), but I choose to remember the series as a whole, and rate it as I remember it through the eyes and mind of the child that read it for the first time...
This also involves another character besides John Carter but it's very good.
The book may be total bull$%*&, but at least it's entertaining bull&%*&.As with several books in this series, Burroughs introduces a new main character so he can trick us into overlooking the fact he is rehashing the same tired old story line again and again.
With the exception of giant spiders and some crazy new weaponry, there is nothing here that Burroughs hasn't explored countless times before.
He gets marooned in the middle of nowhere TWICE!
Γρήγορα θα φύγουν με τον ένα ή τον άλλο τρόπο από το προσκήνιο γιατί η προσοχή του κοινού δεν πρέπει να αποσπάται από τον πρωταγωνιστή και την δράση του.Τελικά οι κακοί θα τιμωρηθούν σκληρά, ο αναγνώστης θα χορτάσει με την βίαιη περιπέτεια και στο τέλος θα ζήσουμε εμείς καλά και οι (καλοί) ήρωές μας καλύτερα (καθώς συνήθως οι ήρωες είναι αριστοκράτες ή μέλη της βασιλικής οικογένειας ενώ οι αναγνώστες ανήκουν στην εργατική τάξη).
Έχει έντονη δράση, έχει αρκετά από τα κλισέ του είδους αλλά και μια δυο (μιάμιση βασικά) ανατροπές στο τέλος που δίνουν μια νότα πρωτοτυπίας και δεν προσποιείται ότι είναι κάτι άλλο από αυτό που είναι: Ένα συμπαθητικό βιβλίο περιπέτειας για να διαβαστεί στην ζέστη του κατακαλόκαιρου.
She is kidnapped by an unknown force who has special weaponry that dissolves metal, causing our protagonist to go in search of her.During this search, the protagonist rescues a slave girl who has quite an amount of courage and fighting skills.
They steal an invisible ship, stop the evil jed, and rescue the girl.
He, however, realizes he does not love the rich girl, but rather the slave girl.
After the protagonist is betrothed to the slave girl, we find that she is actually a princess who was robbed of her birthright.
It's hard to beat the original 3 (None of the books are as good without John Carter), but besides those, this is probably my favorite in the Barsoom series.
It comes complete with a love triangle, battling nations, giant lizards, giant spiders, invisibility cloaks (That's right, one of Harry Potter's Deathly Hallows was on Barsoom long ago), disintegrating rays, cloaked battleships and so much more.I even appreciated the love story.
Rather than the traditional (for this series, or Disney movies) love story of, "I love her because she's pretty and she's a princess", we actually get a love story where a friendship is built and a relationship grows out of mutual trust and appreciation.
I read this whole series when I was in Junior High and loved them.
I was bored at work a while ago and decided to see if I still thought they were any good after 40+ years, so I downloaded them for free and started reading them on my iPad. They are a lot cornier than I remembered and all the plots are very similar, but in spite of that I did enjoy reading them again.
I hopefully won't start fantasizing about being John Carter and rescuing the "Incomparable Deja Thoris" like I did as a geeky early teen.
Another great entry in the Martian tales of ERB. John Carter does not figure prominently in this one, although he does make an appearance or two. I find this kind of adventure, fascination, and writing hard to match. I know a great deal is based on fantasy and not science, however for pure storytelling, ERB makes a compelling story arc, and includes satisfying character resolutions to boot. It's easy to see how science fiction and fantasty films like Star Wars have pilfered this material to populate their stories with spaceships, creatures, and mythology.
Please note, this 5 star rating is based on my long ago memories of this book - I may have read it greater than 20 years ago. I recall reading and really liking it, and even kept the book to read again in the future (something I only do with good, or otherwise significant books). The memories of an old man are sometimes faulty so this could really only warrant 3.5 to 4.5 stars, instead of the 5 I gave it. Once I re-read the book I will update this rating/review to more accurately reflect my thoughts.
I read this twice (because I wasn't sure I finished it the first time), and I enjoyed it again.I love how romantically dense Hadron is. He thinks he's in love with the cold, selfish Sanoma Tora while his relationship with Tavia, his female comrade-in-arms, he considers just a deep, abiding friendship. What a dope! Every meaningful comment from Tavia he explains away, and he believes his devotion to her is mere loyalty. Who can resist a good story about unrequited love?
Ah. Here we have the tale of a young Barsoomian soldier who sets out to rescue the snobby woman he thinks he loves and in the process encounters all sorts of dangers (including the ferocious white apes of Mars, large white lizards, a forest full of hideous spiders, a maniac scientist building death rays, and cannibals) and eventually finds the woman he really loves. Can there be a better synopsis than that? I think not.
It was nice to have a Barsoom story that didn't center on John Carter or his progeny or other Earthly humans. I like how there are always tyrannical dictators to be overthrown... but it gets a wee bit old. Also, the love story was weak and waaaay too heavy-handed. And why did she have to turn out to be nobility after all?
Yup, this is definitely one of the best of the Barsoom series. The fact that the story doesn't feature anyone from Earth (except by a small cameo by John Carter), is actually kind of a bonus since you get to see an actual Barsoomian acting like a true Barsoomian hero. This one has certainly given me a renewed enthusiasm to continue the series.
The strongest of the Barsoom novels, I think. Hadron (who probably has no reason to know he shares a name with an elementary particle) is not the brightest crayon in the box, but he's a good narrator and the political/martial/scientific/arms-race stuff going on in this installment are more complex and realistic than usual. In a good way.
In this riveting Barsoom story, ERB writes about a native son of Mars. It's refreshing that not every problem is solved by the incredible strength and dexterity endowed to John Carter. All in all a great read, I highly recommend it!
Another one of those great old stories where the man finds girl then loses girl goes off to rescue her and finds the RIGHT girl with lots of action and amazing coincidences along the way...love this series.
One of Burroughs' best. Instead of the typical fight to save the beautiful princess we find our hero falling for a fighting woman while working to save the woman that he sees as a prize. This has one of the best developed female characters in the series and offers something new.
One of the better non-john-carter entries in the series I thought. Fairly action packed once it got going. The love story was a bit overwrought and all too obvious, but in this respect it reminded me of meeting my wife.
Continues the same mood of the other six Barsoom books with a new protagonist and antagonist. I give it a five because it delivered exactly what I expected when I first picked it up. I would not recommend it to anyone who did not like any of the previous books.
I love This one too. I would definitely recommend these books. I really liked them. They were fun, exciting, and romantic.
