https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149060.Reach_for_Tomorrow
WARNING: THIS REVIEW IS SERIOUSLY GEEKYWhen I was reading Lee Smolin’s interesting new book  Time Reborn  a few weeks ago, I happened to run into the following passage, which I imagine must have occupied the author’s attention for all of two minutes. He is talking about gravity:Newton, according to legend, had this epiphany while sitting in his garden noticing apples falling from a tree as he contemplated the motion of the moon. To complete the thought, he asked another crucial question: How doe
For decrease it must, otherwise we would be pulled upward to the sun rather than downward to Earth.Now I’m not questioning the obvious fact that the force of gravity decreases with distance, but is Smolin’s argument valid?
Suppose that, instead of the usual formula (1) F = GMm/r²you have a force given by(2) F = G'Mmfor some G'.Suppose the Earth is in a circular orbit around the Sun, and compare the normal case with (1) against the "constant" case with (2).
One of Clarke's earliest collections; it contains several of his best stories, written in his clear, unaffected style -- which is to say that, like the pulp-style stories from the 20's & 30's that Clarke grew up reading, these stories tend to focus on the situations that the characters find themselves in, rather than the characters themselves, but the quality of the writing is much better.
More than half I already knew - I see that "A Walk in the Dark", "Rescue Party", "The Curse", and "The Possessed" were also in The Nine Billion Names of God, and "Trouble with the Natives", "The Forgotten Enemy" and "The Fires Within" are in Of Time and Stars, of which I still have a battered Puffin copy.
Oddly, "A Walk in the Dark", "Rescue Party", and "The Possessed" are rather weak stories to have been collected twice; all three of them basically long set-ups for a rather trivial punchline ("It's in front of you!" "Humans are smarter than you think!" and "Lemmings!").
The opening story is not just his first sale but the most famous--"Rescue Party." In the Preface Clarke writes "a depressing number of people still consider it my best." I'd rate other Clarke short stories higher, but I'd still rate this one high--it's my favorite of this collection.
Certainly that's true of "A Walk in the Dark" a fine work of suspense with a twist that has the irony of a Saki story.
Another strong candidate for best of the collection is "Trouble with the Natives." This isn't simply one of the few upbeat stories, it's funny!
I don't think I've ever sat down and read a collection of short stories cover to cover before.
Usually I am the type to read a few of the stories here or there between novels and epic 12 book series (uggg).
After a few stories I expected everything to be wrought with tragedy, only to be greeted by endings where everyone hugs and gets home safe, no worse for wear.
If I were to pick one story I did not enjoy I would lean towards the curse, which seemed a bit too melodramatic for me (then again it's not 1956 anymore).
-De cuando el autor trataba de contar historias más que construir conceptos Hard que desarrollar después.-Género. Relatos.Lo que nos cuenta. Doce relatos del autor, escritos entre 1946 y 1953, con distintos tipos de amenaza subyacente como hilo conductor involuntario en mi opinión, y que nos llevarán desde varios momentos de nuestro pasado remoto a otros varios del lejano futuro, pasando por un contacto alienígena muy especial y distintos hallazgos técnicos, entre otros temas.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Mostly the same stories as in the Collected Works of Arthur C Clarke series. Only 2 or 3 different stories, so I breezed through this one. Earlier works, so not as thought provoking and deeply rooted in science.
Interesting group of old short stories. Not his best by any means but some along the lines of Philip K Dick as far as irony.
A collection from the 40's and early 50's. Short stories that started the career of the great Arthur C. Clarke. Written shortly after the A Bomb's were dropped, so naturally they are not all that hopeful for mankind. Insect beings, lizard beings and hapless mankind. Good fun, mostly for those with an interest in classic sci-fi from the period. Worth the read, especially if you are a fan of Clarke's later works.
Never been much into short stories, but these were good, maybe I should do more.
Well, not all stories are as great as the first and last two. The first story is an absolute Sci-Fi masterpiece and classic, Rescue Party should be in every Sci-Fi Anthology.Some of the shorter stories only reveal their true meaning in the last sentence which is interesting.
Clarke short stories culled from various sources.
A Walk in the Dark: On a planet with no indigenous life, a man makes his way alone along a trail in the middle of the night to reach a spaceport.
As his body begins to shut down, the scientists theorize a course of action to save not only the man's life, but also avoid trouble for the corporation...Trouble with the Natives: Two well-intentioned, but slightly misinformed aliens with no fashion sense are sent to Earth to meet with our leaders.
I read this whole collection of science fiction short stories from AC Clarke’s early years in the 40s (well before the Rama and 2000 series) while on the train to Bangkok, occasionally glancing out the window at karsts and coasts while struggling to accommodate two extremely large Thai women sitting on either side of me.
The stories are all vivid and imaginative – true Clarke style.
One about an alien race coming to rescue humanity from a supernova, only to discover it has already left… to conquer them.
One about a team of paleontologists, following a Jurassic set of footprints, discovers their own lead-researcher fossilised at the point of consumption.
Clarke sure was a brilliant and creative writer; it’s a shame to lose him.
I didn't think this was quite on the level of Clarke's first collection, EXPEDITION TO EARTH.
There are some strong stories here--my favorites, like "The Forgotten Enemy," "The Parasite," and "The Fires Within"--relied primarily on atmosphere and that sense of cosmic perspective Clarke can so wonderfully evoke, rather than being hard sf--but not as many classics or near-classics as in that first collection.
The original magazines where these appeared also suggest that: one was published in *Astounding*, but others come from places like *Dynamic Science Fiction* and *Marvel Science Stories* that weren't considered top-tier even in their day.
[In contrast, EXPEDITION TO EARTH had two stories from *Astounding*, one from *F&SF* and one from *Amazing*, along with other magazines].
Los cuentos que presenta en este libro cumplen muy bien su función, entretienen sobre manera y son muy interesantes.
I dont know but I find the whole idea of things like reptilian aliens quite ridiculous.
Call me a pessimist but stories like 'rescue party' were quite optimistic about the future of homo sapiens.
Two of the stories; however, were of high caliber: 'a walk in the dark' and 'technical error'.
The former was dealing with inward frailty of future men, those who have conquered the outer space and are yet as fragile as we are today.
The latter presents a magnificent idea about the possibility of the 4th dimenstion in the space and the role of time.
Mes premiers pas dans le monde de la la science-fiction (SF).Les nouvelles offrent un panel varié sur les différents genres SF (extra-terrestre, scientifique, psychologique). J'ai bien accroché ces deux derniers thèmes.Les écrits datent des années 50, il y a un petit côté suranné que j'ai apprécié.Certaines nouvelles sont si courtes que l'on peine à "rentrer dedans". Ensuite, le point qui m'a beaucoup déplu, c'est la façon dont l'auteur bâcle précipitamment et systématiquement ces récits, c'est dommage.Mon top 3:- Erreur technique (Technical Error)- Une marche dans la nuit (A Walk in the Dark)- L'indigène est rétif (Trouble with the natives)
Après avoir dévoré Le Vent Venu du Soleil, j'ai enchaîné avec Demain Moisson d'Etoiles. J'en garde un excellent souvenir général, même s'il faudrait que je relise le tout pour me faire une idée aujourd'hui.Tout ce que je sais, c'est que c'est certainement le livre qui m'a fait aimer les récits basés autour d'un BDO (Big Dumb Object), et qui m'a mené à découvrir ensuite un de mes romans préférés, du même auteur: Rendez-Vous Avec Rama. Et rien que pour ça, je suis heureux d'avoir lu ce recueil.

Una vez más he de mencionar que no me gustan los cuentos, se me hacen historias muy cortas y a veces sin chiste o sin sentido.
Pero tratándose de cuentos de Artgur C.
Clarke o Asimov la cosa cambia.
El problema es que sus cuentos son tan buenos que te quedas con ganas de más y el resultado es el mismo...que no me gustan los cuentos ;) Este libro es una colección de cuentos con un temática un tanto apocalíptica y post apocalíptica, en su mayoría situándose en un futuro lejano de la humanidad.
(Original review: http://hill-kleerup.org/blog/2009/01/...)Golden age 40s-50s SF at its “very clever, if not terribly personable” best. Amusing, interesting, a bit aloof, often inspired by scientific discoveries or speculation since abandoned, the book shows the reason why Clarke was one of the brightest talents in that era. It’s reconfirmed to me why I still keep his books on my crowded shelves. Out of print, available in various used editions.
A fine example of the pure mastery that was Arthur C Clarke. He left his mark on liturate with everyone of his stories and his spirit lives on through his life's work. Stimulating both scientists and dreamers he has had and will always have a profound impact on the way we view the universe around (and under) us.
Simple and engaging short stories. I always love reading Clarke's stuff. I miss this style of sci-fi writing in today's world. It's all about emotions and explosions and not what it's supposed to be about, exploration of possibilities. The celebration of science.
Not awful but not great either. Very sci-fi in the traditional sense - aliens with tentacles and spaceships. Not what I most fancy but the writing can be humourous and length of stories is just fine so any negative points don't grate that much.
I loved them all. It's like a collection of great ideas for bigger books. Maybe he didn't put the effort that they needed and instead he put them in this collection. Anyways, it's fascinating. Like magic.
Reach for Tomorrow by Arthur C. Clarke (1998)
Classic science fiction! Dated (it was written in the 1950's afterall) yet still satisfying and surprising.
Masterful short stories. Many of the short stories became tropes in sci-fi.
A superb collection of stories with creepy overtones. The scientific imaginings are first rate and given the age of the stories, they hold up well.
Satisfactory anthology- the first and last are the best works.
