https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103758.Zen_in_the_Art_of_Archery
و گاه حتی برای این که ذهن را هر چه بیشتر از دنبال کردن مفاهیم و مقاصد باز دارد، آیین های زائدی برای هر کار ساده وضع می کند، تا ذهن در لحظه تنها در جریان این آیین های عملی غرق شود و در همین لحظۀ حاضر بماند.چند وقت پیش با خودم فکر می کردم: کارهایی مثل پیچ سفت کردن در کارخانه، مشابه آن چه چارلی چاپلین در عصر مدرن انجام می داد، به خاطر تکراری بودن و ساده بودن، ذهن را آزاد می گذارند که هر کجا می خواهد بپلکد، هر چند نمی تواند مسیر دوری برود، اما با از این شاخه به آن شاخه پریدن، می تواند از حضور کامل در لحظۀ حاضر اجتناب کند.در مقابل کارهایی که کمی از پیچ سفت کردن پیچیده ترند اما به همان اندازه بی معنا هستند، می توانند مانع شوند ذهن به هر کجا که خواست برود.
Are we all such helpless and inexperienced beginners with not the slightest clue on how to correct our aims or on how to draw our bowstrings right?
This supposedly uplifting book has depressed me amidst its poetry and beauty into a realization that I will probably never 'correct my own stance' or 'let the arrow fall at the moment of highest tension', effortlessly hit any goal or even realize what the real goal is...Why is there no art in life anymore?
Can we please ban money and all its accouterments and live by the High Arts; that might then bring some insipid meaning back to our lives?

Il pub e i tiri con le freccetteDopo quattro -sottolineo QUATTRO- anni di esercizio quotidiano a tendere la corda, l’allievo tedesco si rivolge al Sensei nipponicoQuesto mi spinse a chiedere al Maestro perché non ci avesse ancora spiegato come si mira.
Ammiro l’applicazione ferrea del Maestro e la fedeltà canina dell’allievo, ma allo stesso tempo mi chiedo: se tiri la corda per quattro anni, non è che alla fine la corda si strappa?
Se chiedessi ad uno dei maestri che senso abbia passare la vita a cercare di colpire il proprio bersaglio interno mentre se ne mira uno di carta, potrebbe ribattere e invece il senso di 2 pinte di birra (+2 +2 +2..
A painless book to read. I'm just not into the Zen thing. Reading this book made me realize that I never will be this type of person, I couldn't go through with the ssssssslllllllooooooooowwwwwwwww process of learning each step of something to perfection. I'm sure I'd be a better person if I could just be in this way, but I never will, just like I will never be an Astronaut or a Fireman, and that's okey dokey because the world needs anxiously high-strung neurotic people just as much as they need tranquil calm folks.
I resisted, partly because it was so popular, another herd-phenomenon, and partly because it was about archery of all things.
But, seeing the thing and how short it was, I finally sat down and read the thing.I'd read quite a bit about Zen Buddhism by this time, including the apparently much-contested representations of it by the aforementioned Watts and Suzuki, so the general idea was clear enough.
Although archery is the instance, the point is to focus the mind/body on the matter at hand and not to be distracted by extraneous concerns.
I was surprised that I enjoyed this book fairly well.
My dad -- who believes that I am an incorrigible materialist, simply because he has wacky pseudo-scientific ideas about quantum mechanics that I am constantly forced to rebut -- sneaked this into my bag when I left after Christmas vacation.
But I was having trouble finding something to read last night and I picked it up and was done before I knew it.
It's really not as much la-la and hand-waving as I anticipated.
Ever since my early college days the abstraction apparatus known as western culture seemed to me a useful but essentially flawed way of understanding our place in the world. Zen, when I first met it, seemed to validate Rimbauds "derrangement of the senses" and Blake's "path of excess" procedures. It gave a method, albeit a strange, incomprehensible one, to mysticism propounded by western artists. It would seem from Herrigel's book, that there is no one path to Zen and the absolute: archery will
Ever since my early college days the abstraction apparatus known as western culture seemed to me a useful but essentially flawed way of understanding our place in the world.
Zen, when I first met it, seemed to validate Rimbaud´s "derrangement of the senses" and Blake's "path of excess" procedures.
It gave a method, albeit a strange, incomprehensible one, to mysticism propounded by western artists.
It would seem from Herrigel's book, that there is no one path to Zen and the absolute: archery will do as good as any other discipline.
Archery, however, like swordsmanship are great metaphores for our culture, though.
His master stresses this over and over - that any technical training available to Herrigel pales in comparison to the long-term gain that comes from abandoning himself to the skill."I learned to lose myself so effortlessly in the breathing that I sometimes had the feeling that I myself was not breathing but, strange as this may sound, was being breathed""In the end, the pupil no longer knows which of the two, mind or hand, was responsible for the work"This flow state, where you aren't thinking but simply doing, in conscious thought as if doing for the first time, with the training and practice doing all the heavy lifting, is the skill that Herrigel develops in his many years exploring this art.
Zen için harika bir başlangıç, oldukça anlaşılır, bundan öte hissedilen bir kitap. Tekrar tekrar okunması gerekenlerden.
The German professor Eugen Herrigel was interested in the occult, (as I think it is put in the book,) and when he got a change to move to Japan he jumped at it so he could learn more about zen buddhism.
Herrigel stayed in Japan from 1924 to 1929, and the book covers this period, mostly focusing on the time with Kenzô.It just didn't teach me much about archery, nor zen to be honest.
If you know nothing about either of those two subjects, you'll probably get more of an idea about zen than archery, but I still don't think it is among the more interesting books on the subject.
A short and simple book about how Zen masters practice archery, and a memoir of the author's archery training in Japan.
Become one with the bow, let the arrow shoot itself, that sort of thing.
It's interesting to read a book about Zen when it was still very new in the West.
It reminded me of An Experiment in Mindfulness.
This may sound cheesy, but it also reminded me of the jedi in Star Wars.
Probably the most intriguing part in this book is when the archery teacher shoots a perfect bulls-eye in the pitch dark, and then shoots a second arrow so consistently that it sliced through the first arrow.
I read this book either immediately before or immediately after Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance. I liked this book very much. The concept of relaxed attention was interesting to me. I remember that for the whole semester after reading this, I would hold books and papers and bags with the minimal amount of force needed to keep them from falling out of my hands, just like the archer should hold the bowstring with the minimal amount of force, waiting for the moment of effortless release.
Ohmmmmmmmmmmmmm
With Krishnamurti the idea is to be one with nature and be oblivious to the self or anything beyond the moment, you are one with it and thus don't have an independent existence during that moment.
With Zen the idea is to learn the same through the medium of an associated discipline be it archery, swordsmanship, painting, or flower arrangement.
The idea still remains to enter a state of awareness so deep that you are one with everything around you, especially the discipline you're practicing at the moment.
There is no end to the practice of a zen discipline.
The practice itself is a means to realize the Great Discipline.
Me sorprendo a mí misma por haberlo comprado, por haberlo leído y por haberlo disfrutado, a pesar de no meditar, tener nada de Zen, y no comprenderlo en su totalidad. Creo que aunque dice al inicio que no es para curiosos, valió la pena el brinco.
Jeg må slutte med disse forsøkene på å lese filosofi...
I loved this book! It was interesting and very spiritual. Yes, it was hard to understand sometimes because it is a lot further from my mind. But since I deal with archery myself, I'm definitely going to think about these things when I practice. And in the summer I want to read it again, just to remind myself of 'it'.
Неговото действие отвръща просто и свободно чрез съществото.В цялата безбрежност на Небето и земята, следователно нищо не струва повече от нашата същност, усилието да бъде позната.Смисълът на едно преподаване е само да подскаже търсенето на това, което всеки носи у себе си, без да го знае.Из предговора от Дайсец Тейтеро СузукиАко човек наистина желае да стане майстор в дадено Изкуство, техническото познание не е достатъчно.Онова, което отличава най-характерно Дзен от всички останали учения – религиозни, философски или мистични е, че въпреки цялата си практичност и конкретност на принципа „тук и сега“, Дзен притежава нещо, което го поставя встрани от световния безпорядък и безпокойство.
I've read books like this before, most of them for a class I think.
To really know I think you have to experience it, you have to go through years of training like the author, Eugen Herrigel did.
It is just a tool that is used to help the student understand the "Great Doctrine." There is a lot of unself-consciousness, purposelessness, and egolessness that takes place when trying to experience the unexplainable "it." Zen is something that always fascinates me and I always have this small desire to pursue an experience like Herrigel did but I have yet to get there.
Books with Master and Pupil theme always work for me.
Yet, this book didn't work for me.
I failed to see a genuine learning in the voice of the author.
Lately I have also become very sensitive to cultural appropriation, and I no longer enjoy reading books on Yog that are written by someone who can't read Sanskrit, or a book on Zen by someone who doesn't understand Japanese language.
Essence or what the author calls "It" in this book, is in roots.
Let the people from a culture tell their stories.
Let root be watered, and not fruits.
SUM: Eugen Herrigel recounts his interesting experience training under a zen archery master in Japan.
As a western man, Herrigel encounters problems with the process of archery, and his journey toward zen is framed in a perspective that a western audience can appreciate and understand.REV: I absolutely love this book.
And, of course, much of it is difficult to understand, and the process seems like a flower opening, petal by petal, until true understanding (and not some sham facsimile) is reached.
Oh that we could all train under a zen master.
Even though this short study of zen--[scratch that]--Even though this short study of archery--[scratch that too because it becomes difficult to name--]Even though this short study of the relationship between thought and action, between subject and object, between exertion and idleness, between inhaling and exhaling focuses almost entirely upon archery as a metaphor of zen Buddhism, it can still be read as a testament to faith, knowledge, sanity, perception, effort, achievement, peace, discipline, hope, thoughtlessness, skill, energy, longing, and faithlessness.
And for all its word-fulness, do not be deceived; it has the depth of many oceans.
Whenever I take on a new task or start studying something new, I find that this is my "go to" book.
More than Zen, it is a book about how being slow and disciplined allows one to master technique.
It was assigned to me first as a textbook for art class.
The idea is not to just pick up paints/charcoal/pencil and draw, but to become the the art so that it grows out of one's Unconscious.
You dont have to be a student of kyudo to get this book.
Note: I cant imagine that this book would bode well for Westerners who have issues regarding instant gratification.
It might be partly the translation, by R.C.F. Hull, but I suspect that it is the essential German-ness of the writing: heavy and a bit plodding, a disease that affects most of the translated German writers I've read, even Hesse.
My understanding of it is mostly intellectual (and "speculative"), so I essentially know nothing of Zen, if I understand correctly what I _do_ understand.There are bits that might have been humorous if they were not so heavily narrated, but they were.
All in all, I'm kind of glad I read it, but not very.
Maybe it would have helped if I had at least once picked up a genuine bow and arrow (I'm sure I had play ones as a kid...
Or maybe if I read a little more patiently about breathing, "not being," "not shooting," and all that Zen stuff.
It just occurred to me, as I read, that I need a master, too.
Reading about Zen doesn't translate so well.
I need to breathe.
Mindful inhale.
Mindful exhale.
Maybe you will be a better student of this tale of a western student who struggles under a Japanese master but overcomes to become William Tell San.
Manualetto semplice che cerca di spiegare come l'autore è arrivato allo Zen tramite l'arte del tiro con l'arco. Il libro ha il pregio di essere molto breve, semplice e non annoiare. Risulta comunque (come l'autore precisa fin dall'inizio) molto difficile spiegare lo stato Zen in cui si arriva. L'autore in questo manualetto ci prova e in parte secondo me ci riesce.
سادهخوان بود و روان، خصوصا نسبت به کتاب «روش ذن» هریگل که در همون شروعش به مشکل خوردم.
ساده‌خوان بود و روان، خصوصا نسبت به کتاب «روش ذن» هریگل که در همون شروعش به مشکل خوردم.
Great simple book
Short book on archery and mastering zen.
