https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28960224-one-child
Os Futuros PsicopatasForam nados e criados no desamor!Maltratados, Torturados, Abusados, Violentados...Desconhecem a ternura e a alegria de viver mas são amigos íntimos do ódio e dos seus parentes chegados - a raiva, a violência e a tortura!São pequenos monstros e futuros psicopatas!
Mas há quem se dedique a reciclá-los!E esta é a tocante história que nos conta como um desses seres indesejáveis foi gradualmente recuperado...O antídoto é sempre o amor e a compreensão administrados com paciência e sabedoria!Uma leitura chocante que nos confronta com as vítimas geradas na podridão social, informando-nos um pouco mais sobre o mundo em que vivemos!!!
Bukan seperti menangani pribadi-pribadi rumit yang harus ditangani Torey setiap hari.Tahu bahwa sebuah buku bisa membalikkan seluruh perasaan gundahmu dan membuatmu menjadi seseorang yang bersyukur dengan hidupmu yang menurutmu lagi semrawut, jelas ini bukan buku yang biasa-biasa saja.Bacalah buku ini, dan kamu akan mensyukuri hidupmu.Sheila akan selalu mengingatkanmu bahwa kamu memiliki kehidupan yang tidak pernah ia dapatkan.Dan dia akan mengingatkan kamu, berapa banyak kerugian yang akan kamu dapatkan jika kamu menyia-nyiakan hidupmu ini.Kehidupan yang kalau bisa, lebih baik diberikan saja padanya.
Dan trauma itu tidak pernah bisa hilang.Ia mengendap, mengubah wujud menjadi sesuatu yang lain.
Éramos iguais na nossa humanidade."É com esta humildade, com esta simplicidade e verdade que Torey se mostra.
Este é o segundo livro que leio da autora e fiquei convencida: quero tê-los todos.
Fica uma necessidade premente de ir para o terreno e fazer algo, de nos envolvermos, de não desperdiçar tanto tempo e dinheiro quando há quem tanto precise.
Senti uma lacuna em não ter sido revelado um aspecto importante sobre determinado acontecimento, mas creio que a própria Torey não teve o tempo necessário ao seu dispor para o obter.
Entretanto tomei conhecimento que existe um segundo livro sobre esta menina.
Even Torey said she didn't want to ask.Worst was when Sheila was sexually assaulted and much is made of how brave Sheila was and how she was so strong...but there was no mention of her getting therapy or being removed from her family's home.
It was a sign that she was hurting was going to have a lot of pain to work through.I have not read the equal but apparently in it Torey tracks Sheila down because her book has been a success and readers were clamoring for a sequel, not because she actually wanted to see how Sheila was doing.
Sheila came into Torey Hayden’s class for “special children” at the age of 6 after having tied a 3-year-old child to a tree and critically burned him.
Parts of this book – Sheila’s quiet description of her anger and fears and doubts – will make you cry.
And parts of this book – Sheila’s gradual realization of her own potential – may make you cheer.
Whatever your reaction, I think you will agree that it has been a long time since you have read a book with the sheer emotional impact of ONE CHILD.
I read this when it first came out and it cemented my desire to be a teacher. I still want to be Torey when I grow up. Also, my copy is long gone and I need to get another and re-read this.
No final, desejei tanto que este livro não fosse baseado em factos verídicos... Gostei bastante desta história, ensina-nos a ver sempre a perspectiva do outro, a nos colocarmos na pele de uma criança pequena e tentar perceber os seus actos.Recomendo vivamente, principalmente a quem lida com crianças especiais com alguma regularidade.
Esta citação retirado do livro será o melhor resumo do que acabei de ler."Algumas destas crianças vivem com pesadelos tão medonhos nas suas cabeças, que cada movimento fica imbuído de um terror desconhecido. Algumas vivem debaixo de uma violência e perversidade impossível de expressar por palavras. Algumas vivem sem a dignidade concedida aos animais. Algumas vivem sem amor. Algumas vivem sem esperança. No entanto, aguentam. E, na sua maioria, aceitam, por desconhecerem outro tipo de atitude."
It’s not only Sheila’s circumstances that made me cry, but also because I was so grateful that there is a teacher who cared enough to save this little girl whom everyone had given up on.
So many times did I go “aaawwwhhh” because of something or other that Sheila, Torey or any of the other kids did or say, and then the tears would start all over again.I’ve read many abuse stories, whether it’s written in books or news articles, but never have I been as shocked as when I read what Sheila’s uncle did to her.
É triste observarmos no mundo casos como o de Sheila.Sheila e Torey foram-me cativando ao longo destas páginas trágicas e tão cheias de falhas.Ao mesmo tempo fico feliz por existirem educadoras e professoras como Torey que não só ensinam como também cicatrizam feridas com o amor, amizade e a esperança depositada nas crianças com problemas.Todos pensavam que Sheila não tinha solução, porém Torey insistiu e provou o contrário.
actual rating: 3.5/5 starsI liked this book.
My rating was low but that doesn't mean it's a bad book because it's not.
It's just because I've read other of her stories that touched me even more than this one.
I love her books and they will always have a special place in my heart.
I love reading about how she deals with the kids and adults and also about their problematic lives.
We can learn a lot from her books.
I hope to read more of her books in the future.
This book is about a special ed teacher and her relationship with "one child".
The story is a true store of how Hayden helped Sheila come out of her shell and trust someone will not abandon her and begin to love again.I liked the story, however, the teacher/author, Hayden annoyed me.
I felt she made herself into a hero, and very few teachers could be like her and endure what she had to.
She is a good story teller but thinks entirely too much of herself, in my opinion.I am curious whatever happened to little Sheila.
Her story is heartbreaking...
Gostei muito da obra, aborda diversos temas bastante interessantes e tem uma mensagem muito forte sobre superação e a força do amor e da compreensão. Considerei a obra um pouco previsível, todavia adorei os temas, as personagens e a mensagem subjacente na obra. Mal vejo a hora de poder ler mais obras desta autora.
It is so easy just to call the social worker when we observe child abuse and neglect and feel like this is all that is required of us.I recall my first job interview after my undergraduate degree.
A story from my own work with children, that happened one year after this book was written.
I did not know his story, only that he and his mother were under the watchful eye of child welfare.
My time with Jeff was short-lived as I soon moved on to a different job.
Sheila, six years old and the main character of the story, is sexually abused by her uncle.
These are special needs children, mentally, emotionally and physically disadvantaged and they were worried about their friend who was bleeding when she came to school and then rushed to hospital."Remember I told you that Sheila got hurt athome.
Their eyes were intent.Even Max stopped rocking."What did he do to her?" William asked."Cut her."The children thought they were old enough to be told the truth, so that's what she gave them.
Magnifico.Devo leggere tutti i libri scritti da questa donna meravigliosa.Questo è un libro che avevo a casa da un po' di tempo, l'avevo trovato usato in un mercatino.
A me queste cose mettono i brividi, le voglio leggere, so che devo farlo ma ne ho sempre paura.Alla fine mi sono decisa, avevo bisogno di una lettura che mi trasmettesse emozioni e così mi sono lanciata su questo.
Nel libro emergono tutte le sue paure, le sue difficoltà nella relazione con questa bambina difficile e poi la sua rabbia e il suo coraggio.
Impossibile non affezionarsi a Shaila, ai suoi occhioni, alla sua dignità.
It was about a young girl at the age of 5 years old is what I remember.
BUT she has the behavior of a 2 year old.
Her teacher, Torey Hayden is a person who helps special or tortured children in their life.
But then as the book goes on Torey calms Sheila down and become like best friends.
I really loved the book.
I really loved the book.
It taught such a great lesson and I would read this book, also, again later in my life.
Well like, EVERYONE because of how much I loved it.
This is a powerful book written by a special educator. For one of my classes I has to read another one or Torey's experiences "Just Another Kid." Both are based on actual experiences of Torey teaching special education. I really related. She writes in a very raw way so there is inappropriate language spoken by her students. Also, situations of her students are really difficult and hard so be prepared. I felt she wrote in such an honest and straightforward way that she could have been in my classroom. I don't think people realize what teachers deal with.
I read 'One Child' as a junior in high school as part of a project, I recently reread it this past winter.
This book highlights how resilient children can be.
Nature vs.
nurture is explored in this nonfiction story.
Six year old Sheila, a poor almost deranged child, is put into Torey Hayden's special needs class after she tried to light another child on fire.
She is violent, dirty, and scares the other children in the class until Torey begins to see the real Sheila who is sweet, kind, and a gifted reader.
Every special educator needs to read this book.
If your a parent, teacher, daycare worker, or just around kids, you NEED to read this book! It has such a great message behind it. I love that she wrote from her experience in the classroom with this student! She never give up on her students! She didn't do anything special, just treated/ showed her students love and respect! Best book I've read about teaching!!
It is an excellent book for teachers of special education. A special child may have immense potential within. They need love and care.
Namun dia kuat dan bertahan serta tidak ingin orang lain tahu bahwa dia terluka.Saya menyukai buku ini, karena semata-mata ini bukan kisah Cinderela yang semua berakhir “Happily ever after”.
Karena kadang-kadang seorang anak kecil bisa lebih peka daripada kita.Pada akhirnya semua berjalan dengan benar, pamannya ditahan.
Sulit sekali untuk menjelaskan pada Sheila bahwa hidup akan terus berjalan dan persahabatan mereka tidak akan habis hanya karena Torey pindah ke luar kota.
Kisah yang manis ini ditutup dengan surat yang manis dari Sheila untuk Torey.
The opinion on my blog - http://flamesmr.blogspot.pt/2010/06/l...Livro: A criança que não queria falarAutora: Torey HaydenNeste livro fala-se de uma violenta criança de seis anos com problemas a níveis sociais e emocionais.
O grande problema deste livro é o facto da autora ser muito...CONVENCIDA...Basta ler a capa do livro para encontrarmos a seguinte frase:"Era uma criança de seis anos insociável, violenta, perdida num mundo de raiva e sofrimento...
até encontrar uma jovem e brilhante professora."Quem é que se autodescreve logo na capa desta forma?
Torey Hayden is a teacher of those children society deems "garbage"...autistic, schizophrenic, emotionally damaged, suicidal.
Because no one else will take her into a normal classroom, Torey gets her.
In one shocking scene, she gouges out the eyes of the classroom goldfish and strangles the baby gerbils that belong to one of the teacher's sons.
Reading her books actually lit a fire in my oldest daughter to work with autistic children, and not only does she tutor an autistic second-grader in our school, but is headed off to college in the fall for a degree in Special Education.
If you love children, read these books.
A usually with Hayden's books, it follows her experiences working with children with special needs and running a special needs class.
The main character in the book is Shelia, a very troubled young girl.
Shelia comes to Hayden's class at the age of 7, whilst waiting for a placement in a secure unit, after committing a horrible crime on another child.
Given all that, Shelia is a girl everyone wants to know and help.
Simple things like cleaning and feeding Shelia never really happen and Hayden show Shelia how to look after herself.
É uma estória que deixará qualquer leitor revoltado perante as injustiças e crueldades perpetradas a uma inocente criança, que nada fez para o merecer.
Acho que qualquer pessoa se emocionará a ler este livro, eu sem dúvida que não consegui controlar as lágrimas perante alguns dos atos profundamente cruéis cometidos.Mais do que tudo, este livro tem uma mensagem subjacente muito poderosa: a perseverança e o amor condicional conseguem quebrar as barreiras mais poderosas.
E principalmente, a importância dos laços que criamos uns com os outros e de quanto o amor é essencial para combater as injustiças da vida.
Kita tidak diperbolehkan menghakimi tindakan orang lain karena masa lalunya bisa jadi berbeda dengan masa lalu kita.Tertulis di warta berita lokal, seorang gadis kecil mengikat seorang anak laki-laki di pohon dan merencanakan untuk membakarnya.Gadis kecil itu bernama Sheila.Sheila mengalami trauma akan masa lalunya.
Sangat menyedihkan, menyakitkan, dan membuat saya tidak habis pikir bagaimana gadis dengan usia sebelia itu masih dapat bertahan hidup dan sanggup menepis masa lalunya.Sheila, jelas, bukan anak biasa.
Buku ini menarik dan saya sangat salut dengan Torey Hayden yang mampu bergelut di dunia anak-anak super.
Buku ini mengajarkan saya hakikat cinta kasih, welas asih, dan pemikiran untuk tidak menghakimi orang lain.
This is a good way for us to "meet" this brilliant and joyous little girl because it's how she has been viewed all of her short life.
We are told in brutal honesty about Sheila's early life and her upbringing.
Torey Hayden is an extraordinary teacher and a beautiful person with a good heart.
This book brought tears, bursts of anger, and a few little smiles and giggles.
Not for the faint hearted, because Sheila is one amazing 6 year old and if you're not quite as brave and as strong as she, you may not make it to the last page.
This book follows the progress of a child that was placed in Ms. Hayden's classroom because there was 'no where else to put her' as she waited for an opening at the state hospital.I felt this book was sincerely written, and very honest.
This book would be a great read for anyone who has contemplated, or is contemplating, working in a resource style classroom setting.
Also note there is a follow up book to this one called "Tiger Child" (or something like that) that I cannot wait to find and read.
layak dibaca,gak hanya buat para guru, tapi juga orangtua.buku ini membuktikan bahwa perilaku anak i
