https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10619.Rose_Madder
My book club read this book last month.
This is how book club went basically: Joy: Colleen, what was your favorite part of this book?Me: Well, Joy, I'll get to that in a few, but would anyone like some chocolate?
Reluctantly continues.) You know, Joy, Stephen King never disappoints.
The kind of sentences that make up all of Stephen King's books.
But that's the beauty of this book, right?
And THAT is why this book was so brilliant.
Joy: You're a f*cking idiot.
Why are you even in book club if you never actually read the books?
3.5 Stars If you can handle a story of horrific abuse, Hannibal Lector's idea of a tasty dinner, and
So she ups and leaves him, setting off to a new city...I always get really excited for the King novels where the main protagonist is a female as I've a pretty good track record with them - Lisey's Story, Dolores Claiborne, Gerald's Game etc.
So I had high expectations for Rose Madder, but unfortunately we just didn't click *sad face*My main complaint is the character of Norman, Rose's husband.
I would like to think we're all smart enough to quickly pick up on who's part of the story we're reading without needing it to be made obvious for us.Now, what I DID like - Rosie!

“The concept of dreaming is known to the waking mind but to the dreamer there is no waking, no real world, no sanity; there is only the screaming bedlam of sleep.”Stephen King can be downright weird with surprises he leaves for the reader.
The main character is a sympathetic lead who doesn't indulge in melodrama or denial, but comes across realistically written when she escapes into a town and group that accepts her for who she is and not what she's escaping.
The side characters were as well-written, including the lead of the women's group who, while being noble, isn't black and white noble.
He’s a special kind of nut.Turns out this book was better than I had anticipated.
Maybe that’s due to low expectations, seeing that many put this one towards the bottom of their personal King ratings.
Introducing a preternatural painting within a story about spousal abuse is “out there”, maybe more so than his other books.
That’s been done - a million times over.There’s a bull parallel with Norman that comes to fruition towards the end.
Plus, Norman’s an ass, deserving of any pain that happened to come his way.Recommend for King fans because none should be missed.
I think what keeps this book pretty middle of the road for me is Norman Daniels, our cliched villain.
You've been warned.(view spoiler)[Obvious Tie-Ins:KaPaul Sheldon (his Misery novels are mentioned half a dozen times throughout the book)Susan Day (Insomnia)Rose Madder turns into a spider creature, much like Pennywise and Mordred.Theoretical Tie-Ins:Any of you that read my Decade with King posts will know that I believe all of King's books tie into one of three things: It, The Tommyknockers, or the Dark Tower series.
Well, all the glowing green shit in this book makes me think the Temple of the Bull might be somehow connected to the Great Old Ones from the Prim.
My first King book was Misery and I just love his crazy villians.
I was actually getting a little bored with the book until Rosie found her painting and the weird stuff, that makes me love King so much, started to happen.
"I've known you for two weeks and spent a total of 3 hours with you but I'm in love with you and I want to handle all of your baggage as well as your completely insane husband and take you away on my white horse." Total bull shit.I kept expecting this dewey-eyed chick-lit cliche to turn into a hard core dose of reality, which is usually Kings specialty.
The 31st book in my long-term Stephen King reading project and the first one I had never read before.
For a long time I had a vague idea about men like Rose's husband.
Reading about them is no fun, and it's probably not good for you to read a book being seriously angry all the time.
I'll stick to the story now.The first half of the book is really good and I enjoyed it very much.
I think I would put Rose Madder in the Big Mac and fries category, too: while fun and involving, one comes away feeling full but perhaps not particularly satisfied.
Perhaps my biggest problem with this story is not the infamous magical painting Rose escapes into (a plot point that didn't work for me the first time around, but I had a bit more fun with it on this reread), but Norman — the abusive husband.
While containing interesting ideas, some captivating prose (especially that prologue — sheeeeesh!), and a serviceable main character in Rose, this novel just feels tired, inessential.
I really believe that Rose Madder contains one of the most relentless, heart stopping pursuits in any novel anywhere, and - in Norman Daniels - the strongest villain in any of King’s work.
King doesn’t just describe Norman Daniels’s actions in Rose Madder; he gets inside the monster’s head and in the process shows us the kind of thoughts that motivate a violent murderer.
In this case it sure looks like the crusts growing on Rose Madder might be emblematic of the anger that has transferred from Norman to her, taking over her life, turning her into the same kind of monster who had so persecuted Rose.
The women in the organization have some good parts in the story.REVIEWER’S OPINION:Most of the book is suspense.
Parts of the story were weird and different which I loved, like the oddness of Norman using a bull’s head mask.
Almost everyone did smart things - good guys and the bad guy.I was pleased with the story going several years into the future after the main crisis was resolved, like a long epilogue.
It was deep and monstrous with words similar to “hate hate...hate...”Sadly I did not like Stephen King narrating the bad guy parts.
It's not for the fainthearted and there's a lot of scenes with graphic details of domestic and sexual abuse, so beware.
Despite abuse being a prominent plot point, there are also some beautifully poignant passages about love that rival those in Lisey's Story.Of course, there is a fair share of horror in Rose Madder!
There's also some great horror scenes through the painting, which I can see how they could be confusing, but I didn't have a problem with them!As well as Rosie, my favourite part about this novel were all of the King easter eggs!!
This is without a doubt the worst Stephen King book I've read.
Why he felt the need to add the fantasy element in I don't know, but I found it absolutely ridiculous.Norman Daniels (the psychopath husband) was almost a caricature more than a character.
Instead, he made a half-arsed (assed, if you're American!)fantasy novel.I'm one of those people who can't give up on a book once I've read past the first few chapters, so I stuck with it til the end.
Poor writing, poor characterisation, with ridiculous fantasy elements included.
Recommended to absolutely no one; a terrible novel.
Rose Madder is part of a group of King books I had yet not read.
And in Rose Daniels/McClendon King supplies one of the best characters in all the books I've read by him.
There is mention here from others about King's Dark Tower series, and the symbolism King employs in Rose Madder.
I am aware of King's statements regarding how he is trying to tie much of his work together in such a way it relates to the Dark Tower series.
Otherwise, Madder will become madness, as the spider goddess (clearly Diana) warns Rose.
Rose McClendon Daniels durmió inmersa en la locura de su marido durante otros nueve años.Es un buen libro de King.
El autor nos escribe sobre Rose Daniels, una mujer que trata de escapar del demente y maltratador de su marido mientras él la busca desquiciadamente.
Me gustó mucho que King, sacando el lado de fantasía (el cuadro), nos muestra una realidad; algo que muchas mujeres viven.
Y partiendo de esa realidad, nos muestra cómo una mujer decide decir "basta" y se escapa de esa violencia.
Ich habe es als Hörbuch gehört und muss sagen, dass die Stimme der Dame das Hörbuch sehr ansprechend gemacht hat.
Wenn ich mich nicht arg täusche, war es die Synchronstimme unserer Anny Wilkes aus dem Roman 'Sie' oder auch 'Berta' aus der Serie 'Two and a half men'.
Die Geschichte begann sofort spannend und auch, wenn es nach meinem Empfinden wieder sehr viele Längen gab, hat mir das Buch doch im Allgemeinen recht gut gefallen.
Und natürlich gefällt dem Leser das, was da passiert, denn die meisten von uns werden auf Rose' Seite stehen.
Das Bild, welches hier eine große Rolle spielt, ist eine interessante Sache und hebt die Geschichte wirklich von anderen ab.
This contains both the good and bad (well not really bad) of Stephen King.
Norman, a police officer hunts Rose down and begins to eliminate those who try to interfere with his pursuit of his wife.
Great characters who are described in depth.The bad part of the book begins with the painting Rose buys for her new apartment and the fantasy adventure she has going into the painting.
Too weird and the story just isn't tied up they way you would like it at the end.Stephen King is my favorite author but when he travels down the fantasy route he often leaves my interest.
The best thing about the book was perhaps the beginning. Inspite of being an author of the horror genre King brought out the brutality of domestic abuse so terrifyingly well. I remember beads of sweat collecting on my forehead while reading the opening.
This is Stephen King so of course I did enjoy it, simply because I love his writing, but I don't think this is one of his best.The story of an abused woman finally leaving her husband and him going after her is a good premise.
She began as a weak woman, after years of abuse, and got stronger as the story progressed.
She was a likeable protagonist as well.This was still a very good read for me, and I found it hard to put down sometimes, but I do love this author and most everything he writes so I still gave this 4 stars.
This book was the most amazing Stephen King book I have read to date!
It was absolutely amazing and would make the most awesome movie!
Stephen King is very skilled in character building when it comes to villains- e.g. Annie Wilkes from Misery, The Mad Cop from Desperation or Pennywise from IT.
Norman Daniels is main character Rose's abusively psychotic cop husband.
After 14 years of abuse and mistreatment, Rose runs away which causes Norman to come after her.
There was quite the high body count in the book.
Overall this book was absolutely fantastic!
A must read!
While reading this book I kept forgetting that it was a Stephen King novel.
Rose Madder is an emotional account of an abused woman who is trying to break free from a tormenting life, and has what is portrayed as a psychological break through as she goes on a journey to be free.
King also touches on the downfalls of the system that fails to protect women from situations like Rose is in.
Unfortunately there is some graphical and language issues throughout the book, but I would expect to see them in this type of dialogue.
Savrseno napeto i s gropom u zelucu citajuci i iscekivati tko ce ovdje izvuci deblji kraj. I onda paranormalni dio koji ljulja cijeli tijek i razbija ono odlicno u knjizi. Joj kako bih voljela da tog dijela nije bilo! :P
It's a 3.7. Better than the last time I read it. Norman Daniels is really, really scary. I don't think the supernatural elements in this work nearly as well as they usually do for King. And the final third of the novel is the weakest for me. That's always a bummer.
Started out really strong. Then it lost me once Rosie stepped into the painting. I think this book would have been much better without the paranormal aspect added to it. Plus once the bad guy is taken care of towards the end the story should have quickly wrapped up. Unfortunately it didn't. It continued for a good minute after that. After such a long audiobook I just wanted it to be over already.
Not my usual kind of book. I loved the writing. I could have done without the fantasy part, but the entire book and title hinged upon it.
She tucked her purse under one arm and took her first dozen steps into the fogbank which was now her future.After surviving fourteen years in an abusive marriage, Rosie McClendon flees her old life and husband behind and starts anew.
Because her old life isn't completely behind her.
Some people may complain that this book took awhile to get started, but that's not the case.
King simply uses the first part of the book to make you completely and utterly see the world from Rosie's eyes.
A painting with magical powers helps a young woman find the strength she needs to take control of her life.
The author himself (he wasn't listed as narrator).
What a great surprise and the only reason I finished listening to the audio.***Ebook: 4**** (Better than a 3 but not quite a 4)I hated the first part of this book.
I was bored witless, and I probably hadn’t helped things along by starting the audio first.
I don’t enjoy female narrators as a rule and Blair Brown has been added to the list.
The story picked up steam through the second part of the book and never looked back; and I enjoyed the sharp left into fantasy.
My only motivation behind finishing it was to find out if the end is really what I was thinking of.
And I had heard so much about Stephen King, I was so thrilled to find myself finally reading him.
What a disappointment!What started out as an abused wife's escape from a demented and mentally sick husband, soon turned into something boringly-Halloween.
That was the most disappointing end to any story I have ever read.
I'm going to give him another chance:) I've started reading Carrie - lets see if it helps me improve this writer's ratings.

