https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/779113.The_Educated_Imagination
در نهایت پی می بریم که جهان اسطوره ها چیزی جز کارکرد تاریخی ذهن در بستر زمانی که با کشف و تخیل همراه است، نیست!انسان هایی که توانسته اند برج بابل یا دیوار چین را بنا کنند و به راحتی بر این سختی فائق بیایند، به همان راحتی نیز آن را به انحطاط و ویرانی سپرده اند.
همه ی کلماتی که به کار می بریم به نوعی اسطوره هستند و مانند یک استعاره کم کم تازگی خود را از دست می دهند و تبدیل به کلمات معمولی می گردند.
نیروی تمامی اسطوره ها در تخیل نهان است.
تا مصرف یک نوع آدامس و تماشای یک سریال نیز ما را در احاطۀ اسطوره ها قرار دهد.
(My, my, aren't we a gung-ho little English major?) So I picked you up, slim volume that you are, and read you over a series of happy, early-morning book-with-coffee sessions.
I've always had this sense that most of the 'great' stories are hopeless ones, and that if I lived a blessed and optimistic life, it seemed less and les likely that I could become a 'person of literature.' But how could I bear to live in a world of no happy endings at all – of sad, inevitable pattern?"Now I'm beginning to see, perhaps, another way.
He reveals how we use our imaginations constantly, how necessary the imagination is to everything, and how "literature speaks the language of the imagination, and the study of literature is supposed to train and improve the imagination." (p82) Which I absolutely agree with; the lectures give very good insight into how important the imagination - and an educated imagination - is to us.At times his arguments read a little dated, but one in particular stands out, especially as it connects to the study of Dickens, which was what I was reading at the time, and helps me to understand why novels like  A Week of This (Nathan Whitlock), which I read recently, don't have the same effect.
این کتاب حاوی 6 گفتاره از نورتروپ فرای منتقد ادبی از نحله ی اسطوره ای .
فرای قراره به این سوال پاسخ بده که مطالعه و آموزش ادبیات چه فایده ای برای انسان داره.
عنوان گفتارها به ترتیب این هاست:انگیزه ی استعاره/ مدرسه ی آوازخوانی/ غولان در زمان/ کلیدهای سرزمین رویا/ قائمه های آدم/ پیشه ی بلاغتدر حقیقت ایده ی فرای اینه که ادبیات باعث تخیل میشه و تخیل یعنی دنیایی که می خواهیم (خانه ای برای انسان)، نه آنچه به صورت خام مشاهده می کنیم.
آدمهای خیالباف میدانند که تخیّل چه کیفیت معجزهواری دارد و ادبیات چطور به تخیّل مجال میدهد که مثل مادیان سرخیالی بتازد و دشتهای بیمرز ذهن را فتح کند. نورتروپ فرای میگوید که تخیّل زبانی برای ادبیات است. گفتاری برای خلق جهانی که ملموس اما متفاوت است. «موضع تخیّل در طرح کلی امور انسانی عبارت از ساختن الگوهای ممکن از تجربههای بشری است. در عالم تخیّل هر چه در مخیله بگنجد رواست». پس لازم نیست که جوانب احتیاط را رعایت کرد، هر چند که ادبیات همواره از طریق باورپذیر بودن و جلب نیروی همذاتپنداری مخاطبانش به
آدم‌های خیالباف می‌دانند که تخیّل چه کیفیت معجزه‌واری دارد و ادبیات چطور به تخیّل مجال می‌دهد که مثل مادیان سرخ‌یالی بتازد و دشت‌های بی‌مرز ذهن را فتح کند.
نورتروپ فرای می‌گوید که تخیّل زبانی برای ادبیات است.
گفتاری برای خلق جهانی که ملموس اما متفاوت است.
«موضع تخیّل در طرح کلی امور انسانی عبارت از ساختن الگوهای ممکن از تجربه‌های بشری است.
در عالم تخیّل هر چه در مخیله بگنجد رواست».
پس لازم نیست که جوانب احتیاط را رعایت کرد، هر چند که ادبیات همواره از طریق باورپذیر بودن و جلب نیروی همذات‌پنداری مخاطبانش به حوزه‌ای جذاب و دوست‌داشتنی تبدیل شده.
بدون شک جهانی با آدم‌هایی فاقد قدرت تخیّل بی‌مایه و تحمل‌ناپذیر است.
An insightful criticism of literature, had me nodding in agreement, saying humph out loud, or just plainly disagreeing, but what it did well was have me engaged.
Here are some gems I gathered:If you say this talk is dry and dull, you're using figures associating it with bread and bread knives.Art begins as soon as "I don't like this" turns into "this is not the way I could imagine it."Literature keeps presenting the most vicious things to us as entertainment, but what it appeals to is not any pleasure in these things, but the exhilaration of standing apart from them and being able to see them for what they are because they aren't really happening.I could paint this on a wooden sign and hang it up in my house:It seems to be very difficult for many people to understand the reality and intensity of literary experience.
Like my experience with Dickens' Hard Time, I didn't recognize I'd already finished this until I arrived at the last few pages.
Segue a lista geral para referência posterior, eu recomendo imensamente - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Massey_...) Ao longo das palestras, Northrop Frye tenta responder questões que se impôs durante seus anos como professor: "Para que serve o estudo de Literatura?
Ele consegue ser profundamente interessante para uma plateia de leigos, e só isso já faz com que eu o respeite imensamente.
Não vejo separação possível entre o estudo da língua ou da literatura e a questão da liberdade de expressão, que todos sabemos ser fundamental para nossa sociedade.
Ninguém é capaz de manifestar liberdade de expressão a menos que saiba usar a linguagem, e este conhecimento não é uma dádiva: precisa ser aprendido e trabalhado."
One of the important foundations of Northrop's argument is that there is a sort of pre-rational, mystical, and almost animistic view of the world that Literature seeks to return us to.
I think that this mystical inner/outer unitive vision that ancient people had was reality, and humanity's feverish obsession with literature shows not our desire to connect to our primitive but misguided selves but rather it shows our longing to return to reality.
Northrop's argument is even more important in the 21st century where people are willing to completely brush aside Literature, and the rest of the humanities, for the sake of the STEM fields.
Esplêndido! Não é apenas uma aula de literatura — ou teoria literária —, mas uma aula sobre a humanidade mesma.
This book provided me with a new appreciation for the value of fiction.
The rigorous, academic study of literature is slightly foreign to me.
Frye explains how fiction is one of the means by which humans make sense of and relate to the world around them.
My favourite insight from the lecture series is when Frye explains that literature is not about what took place, but what always takes place.
This may seem obvious to those who do study literature, but it was eye-opening for me.
A definite must-read for anyone who is skeptical of the value of studying literature.
The clearest, most engaging, most wonderful explanation of the value, joy, and power of literature I have ever read. I first read it in college and have come back to it so often since then that my copy is falling apart. If you love to read, if you hate to read, if you are a teacher or a parent or just a human being, read this book. An absolute gem.
Not my type of book but it was interesting to discuss
This is a book for yearly rereading for ELA teachers. And any teacher really.
And imagination, Frye insists, is trained primarily by literature (although he also says that studying the other arts and learning languages are the two essential ancillary pursuits).Why exactly is imagination essential?
In my own life, imagination plays its most critical role as at least a part of "the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things unseen," and I closed the book wishing that Frye had applied his brilliant insights to this area of imagination as well.
Этот предмет обычно подается в комплекте с родным языком, и можно подумать, что и литература служит той же задаче, что она каким-то образом нужна, чтобы общаться.
Литература не столько говорит про реальную жизнь, про то, что действительно случилось, сколько про то, что случается, оживляет и миры наших желаний, и миры наших страхов.
Чтобы понимать литературу, надо идти не от обыденных разговоров и делового письма к документальным произведениям и заканчивать поэзией, а напротив -- начинать с поэзии, как это делает ребенок.
Нам нужен один язык, язык человеческой природы, и напоминание, что башня не делает нас ближе к небу, что надо возвращаться к земле.
I read this book for the first time in high school and I remember being wowed by it, even though I had some trouble completely grasping it.
Frye tackles the questions of what the purpose of literature can be in our society, the levels on which language operates within our society, as well as his concept of the educated imagination, which I find fascinating.
I just finished reading it for the second time in my final year of university and it wowed me again, but in a completely different way.
This time around I found Frye to be very straightforward and accessible in his discussion of eye-opening ideas.
Simply put: AMAZING!! Although I have been a life-long reader, this slim book has shed some light on the dark areas of my mind that need to be exercised, put on a firm regime of mental calisthenics, which begins now with a reintroduction of my Bible, poetry of all ages, and the classics of Latin and Greek. If you are looking to challenge yourself, read this book and form a new plan of attack for your literary consumption.
I love this lovely series of lectures that Frye gave in 1962 - the second Massey Lectures - his notion of the educated imagination is such a robust and vigorous idea - and I am using it as the frame for my summer course - it will be the perfect short text to use to begin to unpack my survey of children's literature texts
An excellent Primer to Northrop Frye's ideas. But his mastery of Rhetoric makes me wonder at how smoothly he leads the reader into some fairly heretical ideas.All in all I'm with him though, much more s than with Marshal McLuhan.
An exercise in explaining not only what literature should do for you, but what you should look for as reader. I found these lectures to be a great exercise in thinking. The Canadian point of view added into the experience for me as well.
One of the most important books of my education. It made me a better teacher.
changed my life.
Don't let your snobby, science-minded friends get away with scornful questions like "what're you gonna do with your English degree...
so the conversation's gonna be on your turf.Frye will help structure and inspire your already healthy instinct to defend the study of literature.
And your snobby friend won't be half so smug after he learns Frye's characterized him as a social-climbing, cadillac-driving, imagination-starving, sexually insecure misanthropes: "Let us suppose some intelligent man has been chasing status symbols all his life, until suddenly the bottom falls out of his world and he sees no reason for going on.
I need to read more Canadian literature.
Frye's tone in the six lectures sounds avuncular and reassuring, engaging and inspiring; I wish I could ask him over for dinner so we could talk late.
First, our everyday language, common, of nouns and adjectives--nature is distinct and recognizable.
But the third domain is Frye's domain, the imaginative, a world in which the mind doesn't merely describe nature but becomes a part of it, re-images it, instills it with personality, and exhales inspiration.
Freedom hinges on the ability to speak to the need but more importantly, having something of substance to say and the courage to speak it when the time is right.
“It’s important too that everything that has a story, such as a myth, should be read or listened to purely as a story.
Many people grow up without really understanding the difference between imaginative and discursive writing.
On the rare occasions when they encounter poems, or even pictures, they treat them exactly as though they were intended to be pieces of more or less disguised information.
Their questions are all based on this assumption.
Why couldn’t he have written it in a different way so I could understand him?
The art of listening to stories is a basic training for the imagination.”
"The fundamental job of the imagination in ordinary life, then, is to produce, out of the society we have to live in, a vision of the society we wast to live in." There are some really great nuggets in here, but I'm not sure I ever really *connected* with Northrop Frye fully, even if I certainly found myself agreeing with him over and over again. Probably worth a revisit one day when I'm feeling more contemplative.
“Nobody is capable of of free speech unless he knows how to use language, and such knowledge is not a gift: it has to learned and worked at. [p.93]” This book provided a frame for the intuitive feeling I've had about literature but could never articulate. Frye is a master. I will re-read this book at least once per year.
It was interesting but not what I felt like reading. It was a bit too much like a university level book. I think it would’ve been more interesting as the original recorded version. I did like how he said we always look to make what we read real and make connections. That’s definitely true.
Read this in preparation for a conference talk. Lots of good insights into the imagination and the role that literature plays in developing, training, and using the imagination.
