https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/427282.The_Periodic_Table
In an interweaving between the elements and stories, Primo Levi tells his life.
At the end he tells us, that his writing was only ""partial and symbolic".
The man who wrote so much and so tellingly of Auschwitz in If This Is a Man remains a mystery.The greatest mystery of all, to me, was his death.
At 67 he fell over the balustrade of the stairs down from the 3rd floor of the house he'd lived in all his life (except when he was imprisoned in Auschwitz).
How do you fall over a stair rail?
It’s fascinating to learn things such as urstoff in German means element or primal substance.Here’s a quote chemists will love: “…the nobility of Man, acquired in a hundred centuries of trial and error, lay in making himself the conqueror of matter.”We even have a passage about fake news: “…how could he ignore the fact that the chemistry and physics on which we fed…were the antidote to Fascism…because they were clear and distinct and verifiable at every step, and not a tissue of lies and emptiness, like the radio and newspapers?” Apparently fake news is a theme of the great Italian writers of this era because it reminds me of a related passage I quoted recently from Italo Calvino’s If on a Winter’s Night a Traveler: “We’re in a country where everything that can be falsified has been falsified: paintings in museums, gold ingots, bus tickets.
You know how you read a sentence and copy it down because it's so good? In this book, I'd find a sentence, and go to copy it and realize it relied on the one before it, which relied on the one before that for its complete meaning. So I'd copy down whole paragraphs, whole pages, because Primo writes in integrated, seamless blocks of meaning. Which is enviable.Other than that, I want to give Primo a big kiss, buy him a beer, and ride bikes with him in Italy.
They’re reeling from the event, then they have to conclude this depression, this malaise, was so acute it blotted out even thoughts of themselves in the suicide’s final minutes.
And this final act now throws a long shadow over all his great writings, so that we loop round on ourselves and almost catch us yelling and denouncing Levi for doing such a thing, and then feel instant shame at such a thought.
It’s possible, and it’s a comforting thought, were it not for the continuous theme in his various writings being Auschwitz and the Holocaust from If This is a man (1947) to The Drowned and the Saved (1986).
It's basically a Levi retrospective, and (without mentioning the new book at all, unless I missed it in a sentence) presumably written to coincide with The Complete Works of Primo Levi, published about a week ago in three slip-cased volumes, with an Introduction by Toni Morrison.Wood discusses The Periodic Table extensively in the piece, and also writes movingly of Levi's memoirs, available together in If This Is a Man / The Truce.http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/201....
But how hard is it to write something that would deliver on such a promise?I had never read anything quite like ‘The Periodic Table’.
The truth is that anything can be fascinating provided it’s explained by a person truly passionate about the subject (and it doesn’t hurt if they are also mind-blowingly good writers like Primo Levi).
You might know Primo Levi as an Auschwitz survivor and you might worry that ‘The Periodic Table’ would be too dark of a read.
They are intersected with fictional short stories which read like fairy tales and where chemical elements take on almost mythical qualities.
Unica eccezione alla sua discrezione, una giovane collega della quale era innamorato da neolaureato e che portava in bici a raggiungere il fidanzato, lei presente con nome e cognome e che frequentava ancora ai tempi della pubblicazione del libro; ma era ormai un'amica e se ne poteva ridere insieme, dopo tutte le vicissitudini successive.Il libro è imperdibile per due categorie: gli ammiratori di Primo Levi e gli studenti di Chimica.PL ci racconta, insieme, capitoli della sua vita e il suo amore per la chimica e per la vita.
La musica del caso è quella che gli fa riincontrare, da chimico, un chimico per il quale aveva lavorato ad Auschwitz (vanadio).
I have to admit as I spent most of my science and chemistry lessons staring out the window daydreaming my knowledge of the Periodic Table sucks, Primo Levi has now changed all that.
The linking of stories to eponymous elements is in a few cases purely metaphorical — in the opening piece the inertness of Argon represents characteristics of his ancestors, Sephardic Jews in Savoy.
Levi worked as a chemist, however, and a thread running through the books is what it is to be a chemist, to wrestle with matter; the connection of the stories with elements is usually quite immediate, though sometimes circumstantial rather than substantial.
An interesting and important piece of true life story telling.
"Декамерон", в който правенето на любов е правене на химия, а чумата е фашистката напаст (но не само едното и не само другото).
Не знам колко точно вещ е Примо Леви в литературната материя и не знам дали някой някога ще го цитира пред друг, за да впечатли и остави без дъх този друг, но знам следното: той е един от най-големите италиански и европейски автори на ХХ век и освен на ерудицията и на почтителното му отношение към живота това се дължи на гигантската му любов към хора и явления, към труд и мисъл, към проба и грешка.
Любов осезаема, дейна, внимателна, радостна, въодушевена.
His mind of a chemist makes him see the world as a miracle derived from the reactive momentum, a life-bearing effusion that culminates in a multitude of fascinating by-products.
There is no sense of inconsolable despair here, despite the fact that Levi’s reconciliation with life takes place in a world that is an embodiment of apathy and destruction.
The Periodic Table shows us how to open up to a whole universe of untold miracles despite one’s proclivity for inertia and accompanying sense of individual helplessness.
In few words, this beautiful book is an act of distilling — a time slowing, purifying ritual in which we obtain the essence.
This novel is rich in its own right, but it invites us to read his other works, to wander around the whole periodic table, one element at a time.The sense of this man, Primo Levi, who is now no longer with us, makes me want to read his other works, so that, like an atom of carbon, his legacy of vitality, creativity, love and forgiveness, can live on, transcending both his life and his death.
Era una persona razionale, concreta, dotata di un approccio e un pensiero lineare che influenzerà successivamente la sua scrittura, iniziata dopo l'esperienza del campo di concentramento.Un chimico, quindi, prima di tutto.Che nel 1975, per raccontare gli episodi più interessanti della propria vita, decise di scrivere una serie di ventuno racconti intitolandoli a altrettanti elementi chimici che lo avevano colpito o segnato in qualche modo.
I racconti, se da una parte descrivono particelle della vita lavorativa di Levi, dall'altra fotografano da lontano anche gli anni del fascismo, la guerra, le deportazioni (ma i campi di concentramento qui sono solamente sfiorati), il dopoguerra.
Alberto	Leo WanGuard	Erich RedmanPrisoner 1	David HounslowPrisoner 2	Sam DaleArsenic and Silver: At his retirement party, Primo recounts amusing stories from a professional chemist's life.Versino	Jessica TurnerLentini	Nicholas MurchieBruni	David HorovitchCometto	John RoweLucia	Juliet AubreyGallery Director	Stephen CritchlowEmilio	Caolan McCarthyFarmer	David HounslowCustomer	Ben CroweBonino	Sam DaleGina	Rebecca HamiltonVanadium Part 2: In the course of his work as a chemist in a paint factory in the 1960s, Primo Levi has received a letter from one of the factory's German clients, Doktor Muller.
This is a book of memoirs by Italian chemist, Primo Levi.
Each chapter has the name of an element of the periodic table, and the chapter relates some episode in Levi's life that has some relationship to that element.On another level, the book is about the tragedy of the Holocaust.
The life expectancy for an inmate at the camp was three months, but Levi defied the odds.
Perhaps the most poignant chapter is about a post-war meeting he had with one of the German guards at the concentration camp.This book is written in beautiful prose, on a high aesthetic level.
L'amore per la chimica, affrontata come un'avventura, e quello per la scrittura, condotta con uno stile limpido e personale, hanno in questo libro lo stesso peso, sono complementari e si sostengono a vicenda.Commovente l'umanità di questo scrittore, attento anche alle sfumature più lievi dell'animo umano e lontano anni luce dalla retorica e dal pensiero semplicistico: la complessità è insita nella vita, e anche quando non la si comprende fino in fondo bisogna tenerne conto.
E questo lo si deve all'onestà di Primo Levi come scrittore: non c'è un solo pensiero, una sola frase, che non venga dalla profondità del suo sentire, nessun ghirigoro di troppo, ogni parola, ogni segno sulla carta, è essenziale.
“In order for the wheel to turn, for life to be lived, impurities are needed, and the impurities of impurities in the soil, too, as is known, if it is to be fertile. Dissension, diversity, the grain of salt and mustard are needed: Fascism does not want them, forbids them, and that’s why you’re not a Fascist; it wants everybody to be the same, and you are not. But immaculate virtue does not exist either, or if it exists it is detestable.”
Ingenious Write-up. Simply remarkable!
La tavola di Mendeleev per comprendere noi stessi e l'universoLa chimica con tutta la sua magia, raccontata attraverso episodi e frammenti della vita di Levi.
O forse dovrei dire il contrario: la vita di Levi (o buona parte di essa) raccontata attraverso la chimica.
Tra tutti il racconto più toccante è certamente Ferro con quei ricordi struggenti dell'amicizia con Sandro, l'unico vero amico di Primo dopo la proclamazione delle leggi razziali; il più geniale è Carbonio per la meraviglia che Levi suscita, immaginando il percorso di un atomo di carbonio dalla materia inerte a quella dei viventi.
The Periodic Table consists of 21 stories and each story refers to one of the 21 chemical elements. Chemistry was vital in Primo Levi's life. He not only worked as a chemist before and after the war, but it probably also saved him in Auschwitz, where he was selected for work in a laboratory. Chemistry also gave him security, in a world in which he felt himself insecure. The stories give an insight in Primo Levi's life history and in his work as a chemist. There are also a couple of fictional st
The Periodic Table consists of 21 stories and each story refers to one of the 21 chemical elements.
Chemistry was vital in Primo Levi's life.
The stories give an insight in Primo Levi's life history and in his work as a chemist.
For me, the most interesting stories were his autobiographical stories.
I didn't like his fantasy stories (Lead and Mercury), nor the final story which I found too mystical (Carbon).
Although for the most part the theme of chemistry in his stories was really fascinating, there were also a few moments that I felt the chemistry theme was too elaborate.
Each chapter is structured around an element from the periodic table, and tells the life story of an Italian Jewish chemist who grows up under Fascism, survives the Holocaust, and then works -- among other things -- as a varnish manufacturer.
I haven't read Levi's Holocaust stuff, but the way that experience is handled here is unexpected and moving -- there is a little bit about it, but basically he's like, "I already wrote that book" and elides most of it, so the story is more about how his life continues on after that.
La mia adolescenza è stata contrassegnata dallo studio della chimica.
Ho avuto docenti bravi, precisi, innovativi, umani.
Non posso dire altrettanto di quelli delle materie umanistiche che, ancora oggi a scuola, vedo così ottusi nei confronti delle scienze e della tecnologia.Primo Levi è il "prof" che raccontandoci della materia le restituisce dimensione poetica in "UNA conoscenza" che non distingue tra classificazioni artificiose.Tra tutti i brani spesso autobiografici che hanno come titolo un elemento della tavola periodica vorrei ricordare l'ultimo, Carbonio, per la descrizione del ciclo inorganico-organico (ogni duecento anni circa...)a cui è inevitabile associare l'immagine dei camini di Auschwitz.
Siamo fatti di materia che ci sopravvive.

И понеже престъпно често се случва да се разочаровам от качеството на книги, които купувам с най-добри намерения, е важно да се спомене:Слава Богу, че се появяват заглавия като "Периодичната система"!
Заключителното интервю пък беше едно от най-близките състояния до чисто читателско щастие, което съм изпитвала някога - аз, верният и заклет почитател на Рот, често питащ се кого ли харесва, към кого ли изпитва уважение старият циник (Рот и Леви е оксиморонна двойка в очите ми - колкото краен, саркастично - жесток може да е първият, толкова деликатен и умерен е вторият.
Primo Levi nel suo raccontare ricco di dettagli, ma mai pedante né saccente, riesce infatti a incuriosire il lettore, a fargli capire da vicino l'importanza della materia - ma al tempo stesso ha tutto il tempo di raccontarci la sua storia personale, il suo rapportarsi alla materia e il significato che quest'ultima ha svolto nella sua crescita come persona.Questi racconti non sono un'autobiografia ma al tempo stesso ci raccontano della sua vita, non sono un manifesto della materia ma comunque la mettono in primo piano.
È da tutto questo "non essere" che "Il sistema periodico" è una raccolta tutta particolare, che poteva nascere solamente dall'esperienza diretta e solamente dalla penna di uno scrittore capace di raccontare di se stesso.
These seem to be his trilogy of memoirs directly recalling his experiences in the concentration camps.This book is composed of short stories and annecdotes from before, during and after his life in Auschwitz.
The reason is, despite direct references to chemisty and the elements, this is a memoir and not a science book.There are also two seemingly Italian folklores and standalone short stories "Lead" and "Mercury" that are said to have been published separately.
Primo Levy was a chemist, a poet, and a novelist--a man of luminous imagination and spirit, despite his forced descent into darkness as an Italian Jew during World War II.
This book is a memoir, with each chapter named after an element culled from the periodic table.
In each chapter, Levy's awe for the alchemical power of the chemist shines through.
But he has a poet's heart rather than a chemist's sterile exactitude.
Truly, this book is as fundamental to life and how we might understand it as carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen.
Yüzyılın en iyi popüler bilim kitaplarından birisi seçilen bu kitabın popüler bilim kitabı olarak tanımlanması bence pek de doğru olmaz. Bir tür Otobiyografi olarak kitap, bir biliminsanının yaşamındaki önemli bulduğu olayları, bunlarla eşleştirdiği elementler üzerinden anlatıyor.İkinci Dünya Savaşı adı verilen korkunç katliamın mağdurlarından birisi olarak yazar, kitabın ilk bölümünde Yahudilik, İbranice ve Kabala vurgularıyla başta biraz okuru sıksa da, ilerleyen bölümlerde okuru kendine bağlamayı biliyor.Kitapta elementlerin her birisi bir öyküyü ifade etse de, bazı bölümler birbirleriyle bağlantılı. Kitabın en sevimli, ilgi çekici öyküsü ise bana göre Karbon.
Now everything has changed into chaos; I am alone in the center of a grey and turbid nothing, and now, I know what this thing means, and I also know that I have always known it; I am in the Lager (the death camp) once more, and nothing is true outside the Lager.Upon hearing of his death, Elie Wiesel said: ‘Primo Levi died at Auschwitz forty years earlier.’Levi was actually a secular humanist.
From the Concluding Section of the Book:"The reader, at this point, will have realized for some time now that this is not a chemical treatise: my presumption does not reach so far - 'ma voix est foible, et meme un peu profane.' Nor is it an autobiography, save in the partial and symbolic limits in which every piece of writing is autobiographical, indeed every human work; but it is in some fashion a history.
It is - or would have liked to be - a micro-history......"The point is made very clear by Primo Levi himself.
Primo Levy was a Doctor in Chemistry and in this work he takes pleasure in telling a variety of short stories relating to professional adventures in his young life, as well as some witty and humorous fictional projections.And finally some tragic memories of the time of heroic resistance to fascism, and his post-war encounter with Herr Müller, one of the German Officers he had to work for in Auschwitz when he was a prisoner there.
What he wanted to show was the life of the individual chemist, inexperienced and on foot, as he was himself in his young years.This book makes up for the dark and sad impression a reader could have had of Primo Levi's first work, his memories of Auschwitz "Si c'est un Homme." LE SYSTEME PERIODIQUE is a pleasure to read and very recommendable.
