https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6514074-the-monuments-men
Hitler and his pals took advantage of the war to pull the biggest art heist in history, and this included looting the culture of countries they invaded as well as stealing the private collections of people they killed or imprisoned.This is one of those stories that I knew the basics of but hadn’t realized the scale of the crimes committed, and I knew nothing about the men who tried to mitigate the damage.
There's a plodding to the writing, and a lot of repetitiveness.
Repeating himself in different ways, as though to pad out the book.
A few of the Monuments Men emerge with full personalities, but more often the reader is told things like "this brilliantly matched duo" of two Monuments Men with wildly different approaches to life, to art, to the military were so interesting, but without any evidence whatsoever to back up the description.
Readers should be able to draw their own conclusions about the personalities, valorous or treacherous, without the author needing to explicitly tell us that at the end of each paragraph.
A handful of art warriors take on the Third Reich in this story chock-full of both intrigue and culture. Read it before the movie (starring George Clooney) comes out.
The story of the Nazis' wholesale looting of the private and public art treasures of Europe during WWII and the efforts of the Monuments Men, with the aid of some others, to track down and return those treasures, is a significant story that I believe was largely unknown until this book (and the movie based upon it) came out, and for this the authors deserve a great deal of credit.
The original research and the careful interviews with surviving people who were part of these events are impressive.Unfortunately, I found the writing on the plodding and pedestrian side, though occasionally a story of losing or finding some fascinating artwork would shine through the murk like a jewel.
It should also be read by every national politician who contemplates sending invading armies to foreign lands.Beginning in 1938 and lasting until the final days of World War II, Nazi conquerors in Europe and North Africa, began methodical and illegal acquisition of both public and private cultural works of art in the nations under their control.
Had this story of the MFAA been preserved and properly recorded, there might have been the proper actions taken to protect the collections in Iraq.The Monuments Men is a fascinating story that needs to be retold.
In the movie version of this book, there is an early scene with all of the big-name actors playing the Monuments Men being briefed about their mission to save art from the Nazis during World War II.
In addition to following a group of men wandering all over Europe trying to track down stolen art, Edsel also included military movements and battle scenes.
However, if you have read any history books by Hampton Sides, David McCullough or Nathaniel Philbrick, you know what good narrative nonfiction reads like, and Monuments Men feels clunky and weak in comparison.
Nonetheless, Edsel’s often gripping account of those efforts not only ennobles the story of the men and women who risked their lives for the sake of saving cultural artifacts in World War II, but makes a compelling case that their contributions may, on a historical level, prove to be nearly as significant as any other soldier’s effort to save lives.The book’s most riveting stories chronicle the discovery of impossibly vast secret caches of priceless treasures hidden in dramatic locations like salt mines, and, by and large, those accounts are as exciting as you might reasonably expect (though I can’t help but feel that they could have been a bit punchier…I mean, it’s really not that hard to make a concept like “Nazi gold” interesting; even today, a headline containing those words stands a reasonable chance of blowing “Trump collusion” off the front page, though if you put those quote marks in a different place (e.g., “blowing Trump” collusion), that’s a whole different story and probably permanently pinned to the front page).
The historical content was fascinating - art treasures taken by Nazis from churches and museums in occupied territory for "protection" or, worse, such treasures "acquired" from Jews who were arrested or forced to flee from the front lines of the holocaust.
Edsel seemed to want to write a novel on this subject rather than a historical account.
We are forewarned in his "Author's Note" that he has "taken the liberty of creating dialogue for continuity." Too much liberty seems to have been taken.Often, instead of telling us what happened - what was found, where, by whom - what were the clues that led to the discovery - what was done upon discovery, etc.
- Edsel painted portraits of the characters in his historical fiction.
History has always been my first love and this book was a well written joy for me to read.
Most of the men picked to be Monuments Men were in their 40s, and very well educated and even prominent in knowing what they needed to save as far as paintings, sculpture and even buildings.
I highly recommend this book.I do want to warn that the concentration camps are toured to the extent that General Patton is mentioned as vomiting behind the sheds and General Eisenhower saying that this all needed to be filmed so no one could say that this did not happen.
When the Italians reached the area they published a story of British destruction of the site, smashed statues, empty columns, collapsing structures, graffiti on the museum walls.The accusations were false.
The art recovered by the British and Americans was returned, all of it, to the country or individual who had owned it before the war, including those pieces taken from German churches and museums and stored for safekeeping.
In the opening of the book the writer tells about the bit where he left out the Italy based part of the story due to the size of the book, I do hope that story gets its own publication one day.One thing I am the likes of Clooney grateful for is pointing out an interesting book and I'll be interested to read it this year.Lets talk about the book then, it is a fascinating largely forgotten story within a very well published WWII history.
BEWARE THE AUDIO -- Stopped before the end of the second of six audio CDs. The reader, Jeremy Davidson, in addition to a failure to correctly pronounce the names of well-known people and places, thinks he's Olivier with his accents.
His British accent is irritating but his German accent really put me over the wall.
The audio version is abridged and, even though I was not through the second CD, I could sense the gaps and cuts to the text.I plan to read the book.
It's a good enough story to devote my time and interest, and the author has a good touch with his subject characters.
It details the Allied efforts to track down and reclaim the great art stolen by the Nazis in Europe.
The men of the Monuments, Fine Arts, and Archives section rode in on the heals of the liberating forces, often arriving while a city was still under enemy fire.
They sought out known artworks, protected what was left behind by the retreating Germans (mostly monuments and buildings), and used detective work to track down looted art.
The volume of stolen works was truly staggering and the Allied recovery effort no less impressive.Edsel's book is a very engaging read, but it suffers from an odd quirk.
If you’ve paid any attention to the publicity for the star-studded movie adaptation of this book, then you already know a little about the mission of the Monuments Men. They were a group of artists, curators, and scholars commissioned by the Allies to save great works of art from Nazi looting.
Though the book didn’t entirely change my mind on that point, it certainly made me admire the Monuments Men and their mission much more.
The introduction of this book promises it will be a story about World War II you don’t already know, and for me, that was absolutely true.
I started reading a physical copy in April of last year and have picked it up every now and then since, but I decided to finish it for a challenge I'm completing.
I knew I would never finish reading the physical copy in time and decided to go with the audiobook.
I think that is why I had such a difficult time reading more than a chapter of the physical copy at any one time.
It was most definitely an information dense read.
It may be much more enjoyable to someone who is used to reading historical accounts.
This was both a positive and a negative, as it gave me great faith in the historical accuracy of what I was reading, but made the text dry and detached at points.I had decided to read this after seeing the movie trailer (I am a fanatic about reading the book before I see the movie), and will update further after I see it, though I will note now that I glanced at the film's IMDB page to see which actor was playing which character, only to find they are playing fictitious versions, not the actual men featured in the book.
It certainly wasn't a page turner and the fact that it's been made into a movie with a rather large stellar cast has me wondering.
The problem both with the book and its movie is the fact that these men worked almost always alone and sporadically in two man teams.
The book simply tells the story of a group of men that through individual initiative did the best they could to save Europe's cultural artifacts.
This story certainly needs to be told and these men deserve the recognition thus far denied them but don't read this book looking for an action packed thriller set in WWII.

And I am not interested in reading letters from these men to their wives.
These scenes never happened:- no French member.
And HE told the Monuments Men about Altausse.
- no prisoners of war eavesdropping stunt, no silly Canadian French, no singing of Christmas song in the Ardennes, no finding the Bruges Madonna in the last minute....
gosh so MANY silly made up scenes made for cheap dramatic effect!
I think there are many useful and interesting bits of information in this book but it was a tedious read so one has to be very, very patient.
The final sections are genuinely exciting, and if I ever get back to Paris I'll have a deeper appreciation for much of what's in the Louvre, but there must be a better way to have arrived at this conclusion for myself.
Instead I was left to constantly stop reading and look up what these pieces of art were, since I had no idea the pictures were compiled later in the book.
I've never been so excited to realize that the last 10% of a book was citations.
That meant I could stop reading sooner than expected.
At this particular point in history, it is quite an occasion to come upon such a huge, unbelievable story that one has never heard of before, as is the case with Edsel's "The Monuments Men".
Even I, who understand almost nothing of art, was humbled by the story and the work of its main heroes.However, I could not care less for Edsel's writing style and, to be honest, for the most part it ruined the story for me.
Moreover, Edsel writes with great sense of patriotism and pathos, which I did not particularly like (especially, the pathos.
I noted a number of paintings on loan by a Jewish family that stated the paintings were returned to the family by the Monument Men. I said to myself I need to read the book.
Finally, I just did.From 1939 to the end of World War II, the Nazis Army seized priceless paintings, sculptures, tapestries and other artworks from museum, palaces, cathedrals and private homes.
The book got off to a slow start but the ending was much more interesting.
I found the story interesting but the way the book was written just did not grab me as I felt it should.
A bit slow to begin with as the background leading up to the need for the protection of Western Europe's cultural heritage during WWII.
The bulk of this book follows the monuments men following the Normandy landing as the Allies swept across the western countries of Europe and into Germany.
The inclusion of letters home helped greatly in understanding the character of the monuments men, and the conditions they were working in.
I'd never really paid much attention to the detail of what happened in the fighting part of WWII, so this book gave me a much improved understanding of this also.
Very thoroughly researched and completely new information to me -- the small group of men who strove to protect and recover works of art that were plundered, stolen and "removed for safekeeping" by the Nazis during WWII.I listened to it and while the reader did adopt some accents, he really just read the book rather than performing it.
Some sections were inclined to be a bit, well, long on detail, but overall a very interesting book with staggering statistics.Thousands of art works and historic objects that were looted and removed to Germany and Austria -- much stored in immense salt mines.
This non-fiction book looks at World War 2 from a different perspective: the preservation of art and culture during times of war.
There is so much I did not know about the men and women who helped preserve historic buildings and great art during WW2.
On my travels through Europe, it never even occurred to me to wonder how all the marvels I was looking at survived wartime.
I found this book educational, informative, moving and inspiring, and am so grateful for the courageous men and women who did this work.The audiobook is wonderfully narrated by Jeremy Davidson, but I think this book would work better in print or ebook.
I really have no reason to write a review, but I have something that I would like to get off my chest.Nonfiction historical books are not my cup of tea.
This book, especially.
The whole book felt like I was reading out of my history textbook.
In his peripheral vision, he spotted a crumbling cathedral off the side of the road.
Now let me tell you when that cathedral was built, how it was built, every historical person that walked through it, and how it has to do with Adolf Hitler." It was a serious chore for me to read.
I read this book after I saw the movie. Or maybe before, who even remembers? And I totally get why someone wanted to make this into a movie, because it's just absolutely fascinating. But, the real drawback of the movie is what makes the book so good: the scale of this endeavor was unreal. The book succeeds where the movie couldn't--it accurately captures how many events were happening, sometimes simultaneously, to help the men tasked with saving art succeed. The books' breadth is impressive, and it's well-written, well-researched, and truly emotional. Well worth your time.
Instead I want to do something a bit different, because I really want you to appreciate what happen instead of focusing just on the book.These are some of the works that the world almost lost forever, works that would have forever disappeared from our communal history:Van Eyck's The Ghent AltarpieceVermeer's AstronomerMichelangelo's Madonna of BrugesAnd even whole buildings, like the beautiful NeuschwansteinWe almost lost these things, and thousands and thousands more priceless relics that tie us not only to our history, but together as a people of a world that is growing.
This book reads likes a popular spy novel so at the end of every chapter I had to stop and remind myself that this was all real.
Edsel conveniently starts the novel with pictures and biographies of the real-life Monuments Men mentioned in the book, and I found myself referring back to these pages so that each chapter was grounded in reality.
And for that alone, I can thank the Monuments Men (and the women supporting them) for exposing me to artwork that I would never have seen in my life.
I found myself not just glancing at the artwork, but reading up on the history and origin of pieces that interested me.
Working along with museum curators whose collections had been looted, their mission was two-fold, to prevent damage to monuments still standing, and to find and return those European cultural treasures looted by the Nazi's during WWII.Given the sheer scope of the story, Edsel wrote the best book he could.
However, due to the sheer number of people, countries, and works of art involved, as well as the wide-ranging territory covered by the Monuments Men, the writing often comes across as disjointed.This is one of those rare times when the movie is better than the book.
