https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145354.The_Einstein_Intersection
(view spoiler)[as the novel progresses, the reader comes to understand that the beings on this surprisingly verdant future-earth are aliens who have inherited human bodies.
these new humans must wrestle with genetics and the need to breed viable children, their original 3-gender existence, the human legacy itself - running the gamut from myths to music to old hollywood films to radiation - both positive and negative in impact, and their own mysterious potential.
things are changing on this farflung earth: strange new abilities are developing and radically new ways of living must be learned; true understanding of their own natures must take place for progression to happen.
The reader is, in essence, the "Einstein Intersection," encompassing the possible limits of what the characters, plot, and setting fundamentally are because she or he is beyond the limits of the internal understanding of those in the book.
Rather, reading the novel is a lot like having a conversation with a native speaker of a foreign language that one is in the early stages of learning: The reader "understands" some of the vocabulary and the easier stretches of grammar, without knowing the nuances of the language and, most importantly, without knowing what the speaker is feeling or thinking in any meaningful way.But this does not mean that there aren't connections being made.
Delany before, so I wasn't sure what to expect.
And I don't think I was expecting this lyrical, mythical, entrancing science fiction.
Delany weaves together new and old myths into a science fiction story about a race living in the ruins humans left behind, trying on their lives and living out their stories until they work through them and can finally move on to their own.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
It’s very clear that reader expectations and tastes have changed dramatically in the last half century.The plot, to be charitable, involves Lo-Lobey, a humanoid mutant in the far future who sounds more like a Neanderthal with great brute strength but limited brain capacity.
As it is, I felt that was the high point and the narrative collapsed afterward.The other major theme is mutation as a metaphor for being “different”, and when we consider that Delany himself was a gay black poet growing up in Harlem, that makes sense.
As morning branded the sea, darkness fell away at the far side of the beach.
I turned to follow it.
So ends The Einstein Intersection.
My own interest in Delany may be terminated as well.
The novel began as Orpheus and became Red River and ended as David Copperfield.
All that without Walter Brennan.
Delany lards his fiction with ideas, with theory.
Unfortunately he can't stop acknowledging that.
A future grimdark place where the humans have left.
Mutants remain, clinging to our myths.
This novel appeared to be all sprint.
I do not wish to end this Delany endeavor.

if neil stephenson wrote this book, it'd be 157,000,000 pages long. delany does it as a novella and somehow it contains the whole world.i wish they'd let him keep the original title, though: a fabulous, formless darkness was much better.
This is the only book by Delany that I've ever cared for & I love it. He blends SF & mythology, a post-apocalyptic world filled with wonders & monsters. Our hero journeys through this world, discovering more about it, himself & the human race. He shows mankind's greatest failures & achievements through the eyes of something else. A very interesting read & re-read.I read it again & although the words are very familiar after all these years, still they move me in different ways & make me think of different things. Certainly a classic.
Psychedelic 60s SF version of the Orpheus and Eurydice myth, quite nicely done. The Orpheus character is sympathetic and well-realized, as is his demonic opponent, Kid Death. Eurydice is suitably beautiful, tragic and mysterious, but doesn't have much of a personality. Not a serious problem, however, since she's dead for most of the book.
This is a really short book and I didn't really care for it, so I'm forgoing my usual format to just include a few words.I've never read anything by Mr. Delany before, and if this is an indication of his work, I likely won't read anything else.My understanding however is that this is one of his earlier works, so maybe I'll like his later works better.This was the January 2014 pick for Sword & Laser and I've had pretty good luck with the Sci-Fi picks in 2013, sadly the trend hasn't continued to kick off 2014.I read this all in one sitting in an airport/on the plane to Vegas.
3 stars
Interesantna postavka, veoma lepa proza na momente i sa finim ritmom price. Ali na zalost meni je sve ovo bilo dosta konfuzno i priznajem da na kraju polovinu stvari najverovatnije nisam skapirao. Ako sam uopste nesto skapirao :PMoracu kasnije jos jednom da procitam pa mozda bude drugacija ocena.
Iubita lui, care simte ca și el că e diferită cumva de ceilalți, moare în mod misterios și Lo Lobey pornește într-o călătorie inițiatică pentru a o răzbuna și poate a o reînvia (nu știm cum, însă trimiterea către Euridice e clară).
Călătoria e presărată cu diverse aventuri (de pildă, înfruntarea minotaurului într-un labirint subteran) și Lo Lobey e nevoit să-și învingă teama, dar și să îl confrunte pe Puștiul Moarte, aparent autor al mai multor crime, a cărui victimă a fost și Friza, iubita lui Lo Lobey.
Miturile și poveștile pop sunt refăcute, dar distorsionat, deformat, asemeni formei mutante a rasei care locuiește planeta.Clar, roman de recitit.
I've often wondered at his popularity until I found out he's black & gay (Who cares?) so put it down to political correctness especially after attempting to read Through the Valley of the Nest of Spiders which is such gross gay porn that I wonder how anyone could get through more than a few pages.Well, even a broken clock is right occasionally, but he made a true masterpiece with this story book.
A futuristic Orpheus clashing with wild West & other myths along the way.While Stefan Rudnicki does a great job narrating this, I don't think audio is the best format for any save a first read.
It would be great for that, but it requires subsequent reads in text format.
This book wasn’t very interesting to me. I was on the plane coming home and it put me to sleep multiple times. It had a few interesting parts but overall a complete bore.
Čitao sam Sirijuse, Future, poneki roto (sf) roman, pa čak i Politikin Zabavnik odakle se i danas sjećam dvije priče, jedna o tome kako pakao može biti i previše dobre stvari, gdje glavni lik do vjeke vjekova mora gledati svoj omiljeni film sa Jane Fondom, i druga o prljavoj masnoj krpi koja je stojala dugo iza radijatora i onda oživjela, ta me se priča toliko dojmila da sam odmah potom pospremio sobu.Gaiman u odličnom predgovoru kaže da je autor roman htio nazvati A Fabulous, Formless Darkness i to bi svakako bilo bolje od ovog pulp naslova.
He hires on as a dragon-herder and makes his way to the city, where he discovers that Friza was murdered, and that it may be possible to bring her back to life.The writing is good, but I kept getting sidetracked in my confusion over what exactly was happening.
Lobey's tale is a harsh adventure because of the pressures of societal expectation and assumption--they're trying so hard to be human that any difference is shameful and avoided.
To get Friza back, he has to challenge the archetypes and mythology that his world uses to maintain themselves, and create a new ending.
Uklapa sve poznate religiozne motive u priču na jedan potpuno degenerirani način, a time i pop(ali više rock en roll) kulturu u svaki dio romana, pogotovo na dijelovima gdje naš Lo Lobey svira i izvrće svoje note prvo malo rock pa onda malo roll.
Nakon nekoliko generacija došlo je do mutacija, poprilično nepredvidljivih, pa je i njihova rasa u problemima jer je sve više hemafrodita.
Lo Lobey kreće u potragu za identitetom, i svojim, i svoje vrste, ali kroz šumu likova i scena(od kojih su neka bizarne i nerazumljive) dolazi do spoznaje o tome kakvi su ljudi i što, zapravo, njihova ostavština jeste.
I give some Samuel Delany books 4 stars where I would give someone else 5, but only to be able to distinguish the whole-nother-plane ones like the einstein intersection, which gets its eerie effect by literalizing the impression that one's culture and language sometimes feel as though they might be a strange dead shell left by another people in another place.
it uses that classic scifi trick that, in this alien world that humans colonized, the thing we refer to as a "dog" may turn out have spines (the trick that allows Anne McAffrey and SHeri S.
I don't know what to say about this book.
It very obviously wasn't for me.
It was obtuse.
It regularly put me to sleep, even though it was only ~130 pages long.
Because what he painted was not what this book was.
It was myth, metaphor, an attempt at telling a story but telling it in a way that was purposely confusing.
I recognized classic characters from various myths around the world, but I still couldn't wrap my head around it.
I hope the next S&L pick is better, this wasn't a great start to 2014.
And other things) who hears the music others have in their heads, ends up going on a quest after the ...
Delany seemed to really enjoy writing the fight scenes, and really one ended each of the three major sections of the story.Some of the writing stuck me, just little bits like:"Dragons swarmed in sunlight.""Who wants to take part in an orgy of artificial insemination?""A fly bobbed on a branch...
I'm not Delany, therefore my understanding can never be complete, and he did that on purpose.Don't despair, fellow readers, just bask in the blissful non-understanding of the book.
Very well, what are the unutterable truths he is expressing in this book?*SpoilersWHAT I THINK I JUST READLo Lobey is a descendent of aliens who took over the vacant bodies of humans.
The aliens have three sexes: male, female, and androgyne.
At least one of them had a child, so they're capable of reproduction.Anyway, Lobey goes on a hero's quest to kill Kid Death.
Kid Death is a nigh-omnipotent character who kills people who are different.
I thought, ah, that means that their human bodies are only holding them back, and that "death" is actually a release.
But then Lobey kills Kid Death anyway.
*shrug* Maybe Jenny would understand this novella. UPDATE:This guy seems to understand it. http://yellowedandcreased.wordpress.c...
He spent the rest of September writing two novellas, the fantastic "The Star Pit" and slightly longer, mythic "Empire Star", blasted out in a week in order to finance the coming months.
Computers of the past comment from a seemingly world-spanning vestigial labyrinth (complete with minotaur, no less), while those on the surface struggle to maintain some semblance of normality and viability in a three-gendered system (in a plaintive variation on the ill-judged fight for normality in the Ballad of Beta-2), and an even greater "difference" seems poised to rewrite all the myths.
It's one of those stories that, having read it, I know has changed me.
(that's actually quite an ironic statement, you'll get, if you read it!)This is a very short story.
But again, I know there's far more than 143 short pages of meaning lying here.
I might just start to understand what this book is saying and doing to me, if I read it a few more times.
For those who focus all their energy on what a story is saying, and not enough on what it is TELLING you, this book WILL be a waste of time for them.
Delany's off-kilter semi-poetic examination of myth and its uses, using Orpheus as the main pattern, set in a post-apocalyptic (view spoiler)[actually, as it turns out, post-human too (hide spoiler)] Earth.
For instance, (view spoiler)[I liked the mutant 'minotaur' in the underground cavern 'maze', but the coy computer whose acronym spelled PHAEDRA seemed too cutsey.
I mean, it was very useful for clarifying what Delany was playing at, but in terms of story and character, clunky.
(hide spoiler)]So that sounds like a three-star book, right?
Well, it's obviously flawed, but with enough powerful scenes, images and tantalizing ideas to merit four-stars.
3.5 to 4.0 stars. Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1968)Winner: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1968)
DNF at 12%Despite this is a really short book, I was unable to read it any longer than these few pages. I've read it once, put it down, tried for the second time and still couldn't understand what the heck I'm reading - it was just gibberish. Probably I would have had the same experience reading something in bulgarian. Just no.
I hated Dalghren years ago, but I thought I would give him another try . . . Bizarre, psychedelic, but interesting. I'm glad I read it, but I will probably avoid his books in the future. They just aren't for me.
So, something there.Lots of barely comprehensible action and exchanges--it's a Delany book, after all.Intellectual core of the book, eponymous intersection, arises out of the confrontation of Einstein, "who with his theory of relativity defined the limits of man's perception by expressing mathematically just how far the condition of the observer influences the thing he perceives" (128), with Godel, "who was the first to bring back a mathematically precise statement about the vaster realm beyond the limits Einstein had defined"--with an explication of incompleteness/undecidability--boiling down to "there are an infinite number of true things in the world with no way of ascertaining their truth.
