https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11588966-proud-beggars
”Mendigos e Altivos” é um excelente romance ambientado ao Cairo dos anos pós-guerra, uma crítica social mordaz, organizada em torno de um crime e de um procedimento de investigação criminal, onde as personagens não são julgadas de acordo com os conceitos de superioridade ou de inferioridade, mas sim, contra um sistema social; onde o empobrecimento é um status escolhido, mas que devido à sua inteligência têm a capacidade de terem orgulho nesse mesmo status.
Excepcionalmente interessante neste ”Mendigos e Altivos” é a forma como Albert Cossery mostra um sistema de valores distorcido, desconstruindo alguns mitos da sociedade, descrevendo admiravelmente as transformações das personagens, com recurso a um humor perspicaz assente no absurdo, removendo todos os sinais de moralidade e pudor.
It is a place completely foreign to us Westerners.
Gohar is an educated, cultured man but also a beggar.
Inspector, don't you agree that the horrors caused by man long ago exceeded those of nature's cataclysms?""I can't stop an earthquake," said Nour El Dine.This is a place were men will argue, then disperse, muttering invectives of high literary merit.
Women, too, such as the higher priced prostitute who declines an invitation to take a stroll thusly: "Walk yourself, servant of a failed government!"My favorite character was the limbless man.
Os marginais são também frequentemente mais inteligentes."Era assim Albert Cossery, um egípcio que viveu os últimos cinquenta anos da sua vida num mesmo quarto em Paris.
Ao longo de sessenta anos de carreira como escritor publicou apenas oito livros, que lhe permitiu viver uma vida simples dedicada à reflexão.
Embora escrevesse sempre em francês, quase todos os seus livros são sobre o Egipto e o seu povo e, segundo ele, baseados em situações reais que viu e viveu.
Mais tarde, alguém lhe dirá que não é exactamente assim...Albert Cossery é formidável!
Of course there is anxiety in knowing where one is going to sleep that night, or where the next meal will come from (if any at all), but the sense of freedom that goes with the lifestyle is the addiction where these characters roam with great joy.The detective who is investigating the murder, is a closeted homosexual who is deeply attracted to the people he's after.
A strange dance or chess game with all the characters who are expressing a certain school of existentialism – Cossery, as a writer, has the knack of expressing a culture in a light hearted way but again, with a sense of great wit, and this book is a very dark comedy.
Origem do exemplar: Biblioteca. Língua da edição lida: Português. Tradução: Boa. Género: Ficção; literatura. Avaliação: Bom (3,5*).
If there ever was the perfect literary book, for me, it is this one.No matter how many times I read this book, it never fails to grab me anew and bring me to my knees.Through his easy flowing, imagery-rich writing, Cossery breathes life into his main characters: Gohar, a wealthy, respected philosophy professor, who leaves everything to become a beggar; Yeghen, a hideous derelict poet, who values friendship above his own life; El Kordi, a government clerk, who is too occupied with noble ideals to actually perform any work; and Nour el Dine, a pederast police inspector, who wonders whether all he serves and believes in is only a sham.Cossery’s mastery of language (and Cushing’s excellent translation) delivers an astounding experience, both visual and emotional.
Βαθμολογία: 9/10Δεύτερο βιβλίο του Αλμπέρ Κοσερί που διαβάζω, μετά την πολύ ωραία συλλογή διηγημάτων "Ξεχασμένοι απ'το Θεό" -που διάβασα τον Μάιο του 2016-, το οποίο αγόρασα πριν δυο χρόνια από το παζάρι βιβλίου, έναντι μόλις πέντε ευρώ.
Έχουμε και έναν φόνο στη μέση, αλλά αυτή είναι μόνο η αφορμή για ένα μικρό ταξίδι αυτογνωσίας για τους πρωταγωνιστές, αλλά και για να κατανοήσουμε τον κόσμο των ζητιάνων, και πως μερικοί άνθρωποι βλέπουν σαν επάγγελμα τη ζητιανιά, αλλά και σαν έναν...
Η πλοκή και οι χαρακτήρες με κράτησαν από την αρχή μέχρι το τέλος, αλλά αυτό που με ξετρέλανε στο βιβλίο, είναι ο απολαυστικός τρόπος γραφής του Κοσερί.
Mendigos e Altivos conta-nos uma história menos movida pela acção do que pelos personagens que a habitam e sua filosofia de vida.Nur El Dine é um oficial de polícia dedicado, a quem coube investigar o homicídio de uma prostituta numa casa de passe.
São eles Gohar, um antigo professor universitário, que escolheu a indigência e que sonha ir viver para a Síria (convém esclarecer que o livro foi publicado em 1955) onde não lhe faltará o haxixe de que depende; Ieguene, cuja feiura assusta toda a gente menos a sua mãe, e que é o fornecedor de haxixe a Gohar a quem venera; El Kordi, um funcionário público desvalido, anarquista com pretensões a poeta, e apaixonado por uma prostituta tísica que ele deseja salvar contra a vontade da dita.
Proud Beggars is an exquisite meditation on dignity, not just another Egyptian noir (though there isn't anything bad about that).
Neither is this a tale of the Junkie Raskolnikov in the Medina, which is what the plot suggests initially.
The narrative involves a trio of friends in a seedy district of Cairo, each singular in his trials and ambitions.
A crime is committed and such alerts the presence of a conflicted police detective.
What follows is remarkable.
There a re a pair of scenes which explore humanity's capacity for contentment.
I pause when I consider either of them.Thanks to Jonathan Morton for his endorsement of Mr. Cossery.
Romanticization/glorification of poverty. Misogyny. Homophobia.
They see the world and its authority figures as brutes to be antagonized -- in the case of this book, mostly the police as embodied by Nour El Dine, a proud investigative officer with a taste for young men (it's just part of his undoing).The three amigos?
I live like a beggar because I want to.""By Allah, you're a surprising man!
That is the only thing you don't learn from others, Inspector."Hands clenched between his knees, Nour El Dine bowed his head; he seemed to be meditating on a doleful problem."It's more complex than that," he said finally.
He lived most of his life in a small room in a Paris hotel, sixty years or so, where he was found dead!
He isn't a 'novelist', as he says, but rather an 'author' with one simple & clear idea in mind: He writes so that his readers stop going to work, and he is not fond of writing too much, because 'one doesn't need to write many books to convey an idea'.
Quite true!
He is the epitome of the Baudelairian flaneur.
And this novel, which was wonderfully adapted into a film by Asmaa El Bakry, is his greatest achievement.
Ovo je jedna od knjiga koja je presudno uticala na to da se bavim književnošću.
Čitala sam je u srednjoj školi na profesorovu preporuku, i ona je gotovo filozofska parabola o klasnim razlikama, ljudskosti, porivima i jedan od pomalo skrajnutih romana apsurda sa mersoovskim likom, što je opravdano, s obzirom na to da se Kosri družio s Kamijem.
Ukratko, to je priča o egipatskom profesoru izbačenom s fakulteta zbog drogiranja koji se odlučuje da ubije da bi došao do novca, ali način na koji to čini i njegov status u zajednici su ono što je vrlo zanimljivo.
Svaki lik je univerzalni lik, recimo, i ovo delo bih opisala kao parabolu o Pesniku (književnosti), Policiji (Vlasti, Moći) i Intelektualcu.Stoga, preporuka svima!
But, it's a short book, so I figured it wouldn't matter too much if I got the humor or not.Well, it must, because this book didn't do much for me.The story begins with a murder in a Cairo brothel.
I'm sure someone will say something about the time and the place, but yeah, I'm not feeling that sort of misogyny right now.This is one of those occasions where I think it might have been better if the book wasn't as short as it was.
A short novel, but it is one that does make you stop and ponder. Whilst I could not really enjoy the main characters I could appreciate the vein in which this shorter novel is written in. I would have no doubt rated the novel higher but I couldn't really enjoy the way women were portrayed - I suppose I'm a bit biased in that respect.

I read this book a while ago and I still don't think I can give a adequate review.
The story revolves around 3 men leading impoverished lives by choice, but who are living in contentment without the necessity of materialistic ideals subjected upon them by the world around them.
For this reason, I really like that the book was so easy to read, but very thought provoking.
-and even though you might plow through it because of its simplicity, you are well aware of the real story written between the lines.
despite living in paris for nearly all of his adult life (having been born in cairo), most of albert cossery's eight books are set in egypt.
although cossery's books tend to be slim affairs, the richness and vivacity of his male characters (in this case, the so-called beggars, as well as the police inspector) allow his stories an ample breadth.
albert cossery tells a wonderful story and proud beggars, though not his strongest work, is as funny and ruminative as any of his other novels.
The plot follows three characters, a civil servant/armchair revolutionary, a drug dealer poet, and a disillusioned professor.
There is a "The Stranger"-like murder that draws an uptight, closeted gumshoe to their circle of cynicism like a moth to a flame (why can't we use italics?
Too lazy and flighty to act, the civil servant, dreams of righteous action, but instead just takes credit for the murder, dreaming up vague radical justifications for it.
The professor, disillusioned by the cynical manipulation of history by those in power and the willingness of most to go along, claims to live apart from the falseness of society and morality altogether (though he gets by dispensing courtesy for handouts).

Cosery creates an other-worldly mood to envelope--not explain--his characters actions.
Rather than actively foment revolution or conduct obstructionist operations, the main characters refuse to participate.
It's whether the main characters will get away with the much more insidious crime of undermining the detective's belief in his mission.Yes, the comments on women grate on a woman reader, but are probably very representative of the culture in this time and place.
The theme of forbidden life conducted in semi-public is consistent with what Aswany does in The Yacoubian Building.
Cosery creates a very physical sense of the street and of the rooms in which the story takes place.
Though I suspect that it is not the best of Cossery's novels, certainly there is a troubling lack of positive female characters, I found the "joy-in-misery" philosophy of the book really enjoyable and interesting.
And if this is your philosophy--a positive Existentialism in that life is at heart a fun thing, except we are constantly being bossed around by the Hunter Thompson 'bastards'--then what better way to express it that literature.
This book is at its best when Gothar is enjoying the pride and honor of the beggars; the language is hilarious, the situations absurd, the characters changing.
This slim book was a gem. Written in 1955 about the intellectual life of beggars in Cairo and the police inspector who feels one of these beggars committed a motiveless murder makes one think about what brings peace and happiness. Cossery uses dark humor to show the dignity in those who live in abject poverty and squalor and creates characters who do should, but do not, invoke pity, if anything they almost invoke envy!
Brilliant, and staggeringly, simply offensive to Western morality standards. We are told the best education comes from travel, and that travel teaches us about the world. Proud Beggars taps into that same strain of lessons, teaching the way the rules of the world are bent under pressure from depraved situations, and how that strangeness somehow becomes acceptable.
"Enseigner la vie sans la vivre était le crime de l'ignorance la plus détestable."
noncooperation is the solution!
Líbivé!
Příběh několika postav, vzájemně se prolínajících, se svébytném statusem a pohledem na věci.
Cossery v každé postavě spojil dva protipóly, dva vektory jdoucí proti sobě.
A tak je ústřední postavou materiální vyděděnec, který ovšem své okolí ohromuje bohatým intelektem; dále úředník s jistým povoláním, ve které ani přešlapy nepohnou s jeho pracovním statusem, bouří se v něm ovšem revoluční, a na proměnu světa vzhlížející, myšlenky; ale také policejní detektiv - prozřetelný hledač ve společnosti hledá především sám sebe; a v neposlední řadě beznohý a bezruký mrzák vyvolává žárlivé scény ve své ženě.
Cossery v oblíbených.
Mendigos y orgullosos es una hermosa novela. La novela parece un policial, pero es otra cosa. La trama tiene un asesinato, pero lo mejor son los personajes: personajes de una gran ciudad egipcia a mediados del siglo XX, seguramente El Cairo. La novela sigue a mendigos y traficantes de esa ciudad, y en realidad la ciudad es un personaje más. Los mendigos de Cossery hacen acordar a los indios de las novelas pampeanas de Aira, o al revés. En suma, muy entretenida y muy bien escrita.
Je t'adore, mais pour l'instant il n'y a qu'un roman où tu n'as pas écrit que des rôles détestables aux femmes)(Bon, ça fait un, pas mille, mais je l'aime comme mille)Là il a quand même osé écrire que son personnage principal (celui qui était philosophe, qui aime la magie de la drogue*, qui est tellement aimé de tous et qui est tellement intelligent et admirable) " était reconnaissant aux femmes, à cause de l'énorme somme de bêtise qu'elles apportaient dans les relations humaines" ou encore "cette scène de jalousie proclamait une indéniable vérité : la primauté du mâle".
On the one hand, this is a very polished work with some radiant sentences. On the other it is too short not allowing the characters to be fully developed. The philosophical ideas are interesting but too vague. The story was interesting but not interesting enough for me to miss it when I was through with it. So, a bit of a disappointment, this one.
