https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7992983-universe
Only the “mutants” have figured out the truth and want to educate the normal citizens of the vessel to what’s really out there.I’m not suggesting that Heinlein, then a 34 year old pup, was up to making broad sociological and cultural observations on the pages of Astounding Science Fiction for a penny a word, but consider that he suggested that religion could be grounded in unreasonable myth and also that conformity might very well misdirect rational thought.
A pulpy short story from a 70 plus year old rag, but some heady thoughts that would later evolve into some of the best SF thinking the genre has ever produced.All good fun, but I must give a respectful shout out to Brian Aldiss’ great generational ship work Non-Stop, published in 1958.
Sin embargo, su lectura, no será completa y totalmente apreciable sin ésos, ya que la dimensión y alcance se analiza y correlaciona (el tipo de comercio y sistema de fertilización como en “La luna es una cruel amante”, que guarda relación en línea temporal con “historias del futuro”, y nace en ésta, así cómo las diferentes atmósferas y gravedades como “ Granjero de las estrellas”, por ejemplo) habiéndolos leído todos.La historia, leída por separado y por definición, es una nueva crítica de Heinlein hacia la falta de libertad, conocimiento total y confinación de toda raza, población y generación, mediante el siempre tirano sistema impuesto por personas mediante la dictadura de un sistema y su esclavitud, más o menos visible, sea su dimensión y calado variable siempre:“La palabra esclavo no estaba en su vocabulario, pero la condición se hallaba presente en todas las cosas [..].
How do we get our of the dark?
one step at a time.
We must be curious and tenacious.
well, we keep trying until they do.
A generation starship is lost.
The peopel abroad forgot their mission and they try to survive, transforming the initial destination and crew to figures of myth.
There are those who dream of more: one young savant is captured by Joe-Jim, a 2 headed mutant who figured out the reality of the starship and of the space outside.Together, they will try to convince the rest of the crew and resume their mission.
It is an amazing scathe of religion, as well as the first written story of Generation Ships (people living and reproducing on the ship, as the ship will take many lifetimes to reach it's destination).The book itself reminded me of Louis Lowry's "The Giver", only better and written 50 years prior.
The story is most commonly found in the "Orphans in the sky" novel.
It is not found in "The Days of Future Past" which a lot of people were expecting to be a complete collection.
This is one of the last stories in the timeline.
Universe is a novella that tells the story of the population of a massive generational ship, who have long since lost any true grasp of the true nature of the artificial world they live in. A young explorer and 'scientist' is captured by one of the mutants that lives close to the center of the ship, and discovers the true purpose of their enclosed world.
What a great early example of generation ships.
What if generations had been living within the confines of a spaceship so huge that it seemed like a world in its own? After a mutiny generations ago, society has de-evolved so much that the current residents have forgotten their origins. It was a really original idea for its time, and a great part of the Future History collection.
Source story (I believe) for Star Trek episode, For I Have Touched The Sky... Kind of tedious, actually. But a novel idea in it's time.
A classic SciFi gem that I would encourage everyone to read at some point of their life.
The first half of a single novella.
Fun short read about a generation of people who have forgotten where their forefathers have come from and believe the ship they are on IS the universe.
I was disappointed to learn that this was a short-story precursor to the full novel Orphans of the Sky, but not advertised as such where I found it. I also thought the overall production of the story was poor.
There is a seed of something interesting here. This is an early example of a now common science fiction trope--a lost generational space ship, its inhabitants unaware of their original purpose, with science taking on religious trappings. Ultimately, the story didn't work for me because the characters in this novella are either too one-dimensional or unlikeable.
Broadens perspective on society vs. the universe.
