https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86321.Black_Rose
The second book in the trilogy. Of course it’s excellent. It’s Nora.  Although Mitch is a great character his story steps back from Roz and the ghost. I think its a delicate balance when so many strong characters are in a story. Roz’s strength seems to take center stage. Enough so that I was a bit intimidated at times. I mean she raised three sons, started a business and jogs every day. When my three kids were growing up I sometimes had trouble finding time to shower. 🤷🏼♀
The second book in the trilogy. Of course it’s excellent. It’s Nora.  Although Mitch is a great character his story steps back from Roz and the ghost. I think its a delicate balance when so many strong characters are in a story. Roz’s strength seems to take center stage. Enough so that I was a bit intimidated at times. I mean she raised three sons, started a business and jogs every day. When my three kids were growing up I sometimes had trouble finding time to shower. 🤷🏼‍♀️
I nearly always enjoy this author's trilogies and this is no exception. I like getting to know a group of characters and then focussing on a different couple in each book but with all the familiar people on the peripheries. This book was centred around the developing relationship between Mitch and Roz with a fair bit of ghostly intervention along the way. It actually got a bit too creepy to read at home alone at one point. All very entertaining and highly recommended !
Mitch es un genealogista de reputado talento, un hombre bueno, sencillo, un genio despistado, y un desastre adorable, pero de estos hombres que enternecen y te llegan a lo más hondo.Aunque la historia ha sido interesante, lo bueno que ha tenido esta novela (como la primera), son sus personajes protagónicos.
Cuando empieza el libro, Mitch ya ha aceptado el trabajo que Roz le propuso, investigar y averiguar quién es el fantasma y qué quiere.Realmente, este libro se ha centrado en la investigación de la Novia Harper, y Nora Roberts ha dado unas pinceladas bastante interesantes, regalando poco a poco algo de información para que el lector (y sus protagonistas), puedan hacer sus cábalas.
Are people with adult children allowed to start relationships?I liked both Roz and Mitch very much and their romance was a fun one to experience.
This was an interesting dynamic and one you don't see very often.I was ready to praise Roberts for her adroit handling of an older couple romance, but as much as I like Roz and Mitch, they just feel young to me so I'm not sure if she actually did pull it off.
Or physically either, if we take basic care of ourselves (which we see both Roz and Mitch doing, actually).If there is a downside to the book, it's the over-active presence of the Harper Ghost, who we now know as Amelia.
Mini review:This installment was just as sweet and funny and enjoyable as the first.
Rob has hired Dr. Mitchell Carnegie to dig into her family’s history, in hopes that he can help them find out more information about the ghost haunting Harper House and lay her to rest.
Mitch is a cutie, absentminded and obsessive over his work and completely suited to Roz. The romance was fun and a bit unique for Nora due to it being between two middle-aged people, instead of the late 20s to mid 30s set that she tends to write around.
Also, the ghost haunting Harper House has become more unpredictable by this point, on more than one occasion becoming disturbingly violent.
All in all, another enjoyable Nora novel.
The Harper Bride Ghost is back and this time she is preying on Rosalind Harper, the owner and proprietor of Harper House and in the Garden Nursery.
When Rosalind Harper slowly falls in love with Dr. Mitch Carnegie who is helping her find out the identity of the Harper Bride Ghost, she is attacked violently by the ghost who hates men with a passion.
Will the ghost be able to tame this black rose or will Rosalind snap back with thorns?
Read on and find out for yourself.This was a great second installment of the In the Garden Trilogy.
I look forward to reading the final book in this trilogy in the future.
The second heroine holds a tough as nails beauty who doesn't quite fit in with her gender.
She's beautiful and smart, hard and hurt, but she comes through to find love in the end.
Though now that I've finished Black Rose I can see how Roz fits into the second heroines mold.
She comes across as hard and hurt, beautiful and smart, and above all a blunt woman.
Apparently 2012 is one of those spells as I've read more books by her this year than any of the other authors I've been pursuing.
Read: 1.5 times.

This was not a favourite, but still a good read with a few spots that put a big grin on my face and made laugh. There were also bits where I was enraged and ticked off with all the things that Rob goes through. Nice to also know more about the history of the house she lives in and the resident ghost. Can't wait to have all my questions answered in the next, and final book of this trilogy.
Another one where I'm debating between 3.5 and 4 stars, but think I'll come down on the side of 4. For one thing, the heroine is 46 or 47, and how often do you see a romance heroine of that age? Huzzah for middle-aged representation! Review to come.
Ahora se encuentra disfrutando de su familia de los niños de Stella, de la hija de Hayley y de sus amadas plantas.Pero la mansión tiene una presencia que ya no se deja ignorar; la "Novia de Harper", Amelia, como descubrieron que se llama la fantasma que habita la mansión por generaciones merece respuestas y las mujeres de la mansión está dispuestas a dárselas.
Para ello contratan al Dr. Mitchell Carnegie quien ayuda a investigar la historia y genealogía de la familia Harper para descubrir quién fue Amelia, como murió y por qué su presencia reside en la mansión.Me gusta que Nora Roberts tome una mujer de 47 años luego de dos matrimonios para encontrar el amor nuevamente.
Another book I enjoyed. I love gardening so these books are cute from that point of view. I'm still not sure how much I like the character of Roz. I like that she's a strong woman but somehow she just seems to rub me the wrong way.
2.5 stars - is it just me, or are all of Nora Robert's stories starting to sound the same?
This book picks up where “Blue Dahlia” left off, in terms of the mystery of the Harper Bride, a ghost who haunts historic Harper House near Memphis Tennessee, and the personal lives of the living characters, as well.
Through Mitch’s research, and the things that happen to Roz as she falls in love with him, the group at Harper House learns more about the identity and circumstances of the Harper Bride, but there are still parts of the mystery yet to be solved by the book’s conclusion.
I must admit that it has been the worst romance book I had ever read.
I didn't like a thing about it.First, Robert's writing style in this book is horrible.
I never really liked Roz as much as to read her own story.
I mean I liked her but as a secondary character.
I didn't even enjoyed the paranormal side of the book.
I'm so disappointed because I really liked the first book and I wanted to enjoy this one as much, but not even close.Although I will be reading the third because I wanna see Harper get his own HEA.
I was going to give this a 4 or 4.5 but thought how much I liked reading this and thought, eh 5 stars will do just fine.Anyway, I'm liking these new covers for this trilogy.
This is one of those that I like to read when I'm either in a reading slump or want something different to read.I like how Roz is strong but at the same time is likeable.
Also Mitch is adorable and you get why Roz likes him.
This was a pretty good sequel and looking forward to the next and last one in this trilogy.
This series just isn't coming alive for me like most NR works. I know they are formulaic, but that's not my problem here. I'm really just not finding the characters interesting. There are sparks of interest, but nothing lasting.
Part 2, didn't feel as engaged with this part, although Roz is my age. Good to see other aspects from part 1 be built on.
This book was awesome and i loved the romance in it and the mystery also i gave this book a 5 stars i liked everything about this book
Actual rating 4.5 stars
I want to be just like Ros ;-)
Der zweite Teil der Garten-Eden-Trilogie von Nora Roberts hat mir noch besser gefallen, als der erste Teil.
Ich mochte Mitch mit seiner leicht verpeilten Art schon im Vorgänger und hier genauso.
Das machte ihn einfach liebenswürdig und man konnte auch das eine oder andere Mal lachen.
Auch mit Roz hat Nora Roberts einen starken Charakter geschaffen.
Solche Freunde wünscht man sich.Auch der Hausgeist der Harper Familie hat hier den einen oder anderen Auftritt und der fällt nicht immer positiv aus.
Das Nora Roberts in der Geschichte einen Geist eingefügt hat, find ich besonders spannend.
Es hat einen Hauch Übernatürliches und das mag ich.
Together, the plot develops with solid pacing and depth, each aspect complementing the other and building off each other nicely.Knowing that this was the second book in the trilogy helped assuage the impatience to get the answers to Amelia's past, and Roberts takes time to provide glimpses of her history and add some truly atmospheric creepiness to her haunting ways.
I think that's why, despite the fact that I liked the book quite a lot, I never actually connected to it on a personal level, and why, though I admired Roz and had quite a lot of affection for Mitch, I was never completely invested in their relationship or the continuing saga of the Harper Bride.
La parte de la historia de Amelia es lo mas interesante, ya que vamos descubriendo qué fue lo que le pasó, aunque desde entrada tenemos un estimativo, creo que los personajes lo descubren con mucha cuota de azar, porque me parece que no cuentan con los elementos suficientes para descubrirlo.-Respecto a Roz y Mitch, tienen sus buenos momentos, pero toda la historia de Amelia se come su historia en particular.
La ensombrese bastante, aunque su gran momento es cuando Roz pone en evidencia a su ex marido.
GRAN MOMENTO!Finalmente llega la historia de Harper, la vienen preparando desde el primer libro, espero que este a la altura.-
It is refreshing to see a heroine who is almost fifty.
Roz's enjoyment of Mitch, the absent-minded professor, starts off as a mutal attraction that she thinks is only that, but both, with their children all grown-up, are thrown off-course by the depth of their liking for each other when both feel they are past that point in their lives.
The parts with the ghost are a little overwhelming, but the rest of the book is both fun and painful, complete with an -ex showing up to make trouble and that nasty relative that we all have somewhere in our family trees.
No pude con este libro, me pareció de lo mas lento por lo que lo dejé, me aburrió.
Slightly better than the first one "Blue Dahlia". It was ok.
Excellent book and series!
Beach read. Gardening, sex, love and ghosts...what's not to love. (This star rating direct result of proximity to ocean and champagne whilst reading)
I love that they're about 50 and still written as having a life and hobbies and stuff to do and romance, and not just here to handle the kids and babysit.Mitch's research in genealogy and (view spoiler)[Roz' experience with the ghosts getting to the same facts from two different roads was really interesting.
Still, way too much romance, too little intrigue, even though the author balanced it so much better than in the first book.
