https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169704.Don_t_Point_that_Thing_at_Me
”Destroying the painting was out of the question: my soul is all stained and shagged with sin like a cigarette smoker’s moustache but I am quite incapable of destroying works of art. Steal them, yes, cheerfully, it is a mark of respect and love, but destroy them, never. Why even the Woosters had a code, as we are told on the highest authority.” Johnny Depp plays Mortdecai in the 2015 movie. I’ve not seen it, but most of the reviewers are torching it. Regardless, I will eventually watch it.”Charl
Nevertheless, he is a very cruel and dangerous policeman.” After Charlie, with the help of Jock, convinces Martland to beat it, Mortdecai starts making plans to sell the painting because, of course, he did steal the painting.
There are certainly many oddish references to Wodehouse’s famous creations in this novel.His next challenge, with some form of special police hot on his tail, is arriving to meet his wealthy American buyer only to greet his mortal remains.
He claimed to be ‘abstemious in all things except drink, food, tobacco, and talking,’ and ‘loved and respected by all who knew him slightly.’If you wish to see more of my most recent book and movie reviews, visit http://www.jeffreykeeten.comI also have a Facebook blogger page at:https://www.facebook.com/JeffreyKeeten
This is Jeeves & Wooster with a James Bond twist.
I mean, Bonfiglioli's writing style is sooo similar to Wodehouse's that it wasn't going to take the British public long to sniff it out, so hell, drop in a mention of Jeeves and Wooster into the text right off the bat and get it over with.
That said, Bonfiglioli does not quite have Wodehouse's wit and his characters are not quite as charmingly lovable as Wodehouse's.
The second part is unavoidable considering Bonfiglioli is writing about characters involved in grand theft and murder.
Most authors make their stories work through plot, or characters, or sometimes both.
For example: Don't Point That Thing At Me, author Bonfiglioli's first outing with his series character Charlie Mortdecai.Mortdecai is a fringe member of the minor British nobility in the early 1970s.
Mortdecai's ended up with a stolen Goya that he intends to unload on a wealthy American collector if he can enlist the aid of a shadowy British police unit without unduly arousing its interest in his business.So far, so good; an antihero is often more entertaining than a traditional straight-up hero.
That’s essentially what reading Don’t Point That Thing At Me is like.Charles Mortdecai is an aristocratic art dealer who’s fallen in with a bad crowd.
Charles is always drinking and some guys get shot around him so I suppose that’s where the Fleming reference comes from – a couple of details that sound Fleming/Bond-like and nothing more – but the Wodehouse?
Hmm, no, that would mean Bonfiglioli’s funny and he’s not.I suppose at the time it was hilarious to read lines like “The man was looking at me askance.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Between his over-educated self-satisfied air and his brutal and loyal manservant Jock the plot takes a back seat to their absurdly silly adventures across the British countryside and a trip to America whilst dealing with blackmailers, attempted murder, art thieves and smugglers not to mention renegade cops with anti-Mortdecai vendettas.Each chapter opens with a late wakeup call, a greasy breakfast and a bottle of whiskey and filling the pages with witty one-liners, hillarious descriptive passages and offensive yet perfectly funny observations of people.

Quirky, fun, depressing, & strange, Charlie is a proper Englishman with a wonderful turn of phrase who is also an art thief, fence, & murderer. Imagine Jeeves gone terribly wrong & set into a noir mystery-thriller. Fantastic! Well read.
There are times when I could slap myself (as compared to those times when others would sooner slap me?) NO I have just finished this book after seeing the cover at a local thrift store and thinking that looks fun lets give it a go even though for some reason it sounds familiar.
Anyway the book - I must admit that it is rather a fun farce and a racing romp and I guess for one of those rare times where there "blurb" on the cover is pretty spot on saying that its a mix of P G Woodhouse and Ian Fleming.
I wanted SO BADLY to like this book -- the descriptions of it being a mix of Wodehouse and Fleming make it sound tailor made for me -- and I did think the writing itself was amusing and intelligent.
By the close of the novel, I had only the slimmest idea of what had happened -- and the infuriating notion that I'd have to read the remaining books in the series to be anything like sure.
Unfortunately, I'll likely have to remain frustrated in my curiosity about the book's events, because I don't think I have the patience to put up with Mr. Bonfiglioli's confounding plots for another 3 novels in order to be sure.
Až zhruba po dvaceti stranách mi došlo, že to je ten film! A bavila jsem se snad ještě lépe! Spousta francouzštiny a snobismu, portrétů starých mistrů, no a také žen. A taky spousta cynismu, díky kterému je to celé skvost.
It's an absurdist caper that reminds me a little of *The Chinese Agent* and *The Russian Intelligence*, Michael Moorcock's own forays into the same territory.
Most of these I'm sure I missed but I'm aware from those I did catch that they demand a sophisticated literary intelligence to understand.My favourite of these allusions is an obscure reference to "fourteen in the Borgesian sense".
The allusion is to the Borges story 'The House of Asterion' wherein the Minotaur confuses the number 14 with infinity.
A portly art dealer, chronic alcoholic, epicurean, sexist and someone with a fine sense of humor- meet Charlie Mortdecai.
The fact that I have not read P.G.Wodehouse weighs heavily against me for the more I read of the reviews of this book, the more I feel that it is a necessity to enjoy this book.
The humor in this one ranges from black to tongue-in-cheek and the tone shifts from slapstick to sarcastic in the gap of a few pages.
Beyond this, I am at a loss as to how to review this book.
What starts off as a vaguely interesting plot involving a stolen painting quickly devolves into a boring disjointed narrative where it's difficult to follow any character's motives.Also, there's nothing redeeming about the main character.
Charlie Mortdecai is so unlikeable, and his 'I'm rich and drinking all the time' joke gets old unbelievably quickly, that by the time the climax comes around it's difficult to care about his fate at all.The portrayal of Johanna is also both insulting and unbelievable on several accounts, and her interactions with Charlie just don't plain make sense.
Don't Point that Thing at Me reads like nothing else. The closest approximation isn't in print: It's the televised Blackadder series, which has a similar misanthropic anti-hero who can't get a break. The hilarious misadventures of amoral, cowardly, selfish but brilliant Charles Mortdecai (get it? death and decay right in the name) is the antidote to any overly saccharine British cozy.I've just finished Kyril Bonfiglioli's dark debut novel, and I can't wait to read the sequel, After You with the Pistol. Too bad there are only three novels in the series!
Не съм гледала филма „Мордекай”, но не съм учудена, че ролята му изпълнява именно Джони Деп – героят Мордекай е същински Джак Спароу като заряд и коментари.
Което е още един плюс за режисьорите.„Графинята вече си беше съставила мнението, че съм отрепка; реших, че няма да ми навреди, ако разбере, че освен това съм и пияница.”Настроението на книгата има своето развитие, което може най-точно да се определи по чичостояновски: „от играчка — ей ти плачка.” В началото започва съвсем безгрижно, гледащо леко отвисоко, но после попада в тресавището и колкото повече мърда, толкова по-надълбоко затъва.
Още повече, ако си представяте Чарли Мордекай като Джони Деп ;)
Mortdecai, é hilariante.
Observações corrosivas e descrições exageradas são enriquecidas com imensas referências literárias e culturais num livro cujo «único» problema é mesmo o enredo.
Pareceu-me que, ao partir de personagens e situações são comicamente disparatadas, o autor se colocou no enorme sarilho de tentar terminar o livro com alguma lucidez e credibilidade.Com a aproximação do final, tanto personagem e linha de argumento se perdem e nem todo o carisma de Mortdecai é suficiente para salvar a situação: o fim é tremendamente insatisfatório.
Adorei, no entanto, a primeira parte do livro, e é por isso que estou curiosa com os seguintes.
Kniha ktorú jedenkrát čítať nestačí. Príbeh obyčajný, ale jazyk a humor je skvelý. Zábavná a ideálna kniha na cestu vlakom. Plž na hlohu sa usmieva od ucha k uchu.
Boring. So-o-o boring.The excellent choice of words doesn't make up for such a messy plot. Next book, please
The first half of the book was very good and I enjoyed it a lot, Mortdecai is really peculiar, and I have to admit that I never read a book in which the main character sells stolen masterpieces, I'll try to find more of them, and any advice is welcome!
And I liked a lot Jock, too.
It's not a kind of character that I usually enjoy, but I liked him a lot!And the writing was enjoyable, so I thought that all the reading would have been easy and enjoyable, but then came the half of the book and my interest drop.
I'm disappointed.
Hoped for so much more but what I found was a story that makes very little sense because it's trying to be too damned clever, a central character that is very nearly unlikeable and an ending which is awful (although its not really an ending as I believe the next in the series picks up the story straightaway).It appeared to be the story of a stolen Goya, but veered into blackmail, murder, discourses on the mammaries of various women and a Rolls Royce Silver Ghost (which receives shocking treatment).
Somewhere in the trash he reads, Martland has read that heavy men walk with surprising lightness and grace; as a result he trips about like a portly elf hoping to be picked up by a leprechaun.
A score to me already, for I had filled it with Invalid Port of an unbelievable nastiness.
He didn't notice: score two to me.
That's my favorite part of the book, and it happens on the first page.
What I liked most about this is reading from the point of view of a person who thinks its a good joke to give someone wine of a different year than they expect.
L'ho lasciato a metà, con mio sommo dispiacere. Non ce l'ho fatta. Ho trovato questo libro spesso incomprensibile, l'ironia di Mortdecai insensata (almeno per me) e ho faticato molto a starci dietro. Per carità, non stiamo parlando di 500 pagine di malloppo, ma sinceramente preferisco di gran lunga vedermi l'omonimo film. Almeno scopro come è andata a finire la storia.
Le prime briciole di questa sua avventura d'esordio parevano promettere un'avventura zeppa di ironia e assurdità, ma di quelle buone che al lettore fa piacere leggere.
Ma, ahimè, stando al mio personalissimo gusto, la promessa fatta annusare da Kyril Bonfiglioli non è stata mantenuta, e col passare dei capitoli Mortdecai diviene una macchietta priva di interesse, di gusto, troppo ripetitiva e di uno spessore caratteriale sempre più sottile.
Due stelle, non di più, è soltanto perché ci sono interessanti citazioni e l'inizio mi ha strappato diverse risate.
Le quali, pagina dopo pagina, si sono trasformate in sbuffi e sbadigli.
Dopo un inizio promettente, con un personaggio eccentrico ed una narrazione al limite del non-senso, ho perso velocemente interesse – così tanto che, mentre leggevo, pensavo ad altro.La trama è inutilmente ingarbugliata, complicata e difficile da seguire. Le situazioni raccontate sono improponibili. Sembra che l’autore si impegni al massimo con “effetti speciali” per tenere viva l’attenzione del lettore. Ma invano!Come dice l’autore stesso: “The English, as Raymond Chandler has pointed out, may not always be the best writers in the world but they are incomparably the best dull writers”. In questo caso, non posso fare altro che confermare!!!
I was lured into buying this book during a 5 minute dash into London's Daunt books.
I will admit to feeling a little a bit cheated, as it's a very odd book indeed and I am very glad that I didn't buy any more of the series on impulse.
I read it, but the main character is abhorrent, the plot labyrinthine and impenetrable (and possibly in the end superfluous) and tho' it looks like he dies in the end, apparently he doesn't, as there are others in the series.
Happily for me, I will not be reading them.
It's if PG Wodehouse wrote a thriller. Kyril Bonfiglioli was an extremely talented writer and this book I didn't want to end. Why couldn't it go for another two or three hundred pages. I love the character, and it sort of reminds me of the Alex James memoir. Very charming, lots of drinking, takes life not seriously at all - just what I like in my literature and in my life. Fantastic book to have by your side at all times.
An enjoyable with only a few small flaws the main being the drive threw the american west and the diner stopovers, although I have always found this tedious in any book. Once I get through the second book my star rating may change because the book gave a lot pleasure with the unhinged storyline. Looking forward to the second book of the excellent anti-Wooster and Jock.
An entertaining little story narrated by art expert (and art thief) Charlie Mortdecai who has stolen a valuable painting and is attempting to transport it to his buyer in America whilst avoiding the attentions of the Police and other nefarious characters who seem to have it in for our 'hero'. Billed on the cover as 'P.G. Wodehouse meets Ian Fleming', whilst I wouldn't necessarily agree with that, it was certainly a light-hearted and amusing read, despite several acts of violence, with a likeable central character and I am looking forward to reading further books in the series - 8.5/10.
I could give this 2.5 stars. I was just interested in the comparison to Wodehouse, and I didn't look into the content too much before borrowing this from the library... mistake. there was a lot of toilet humor, which I don't care for at all. I don't find it interesting or amusing. there were literary references and moments that I found compelling, but they were few and far between.
