https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/755301.All_That_Glitters
I preferred Paul over Beau from day one so naturally I had issues with this book. Ruby turned into her sister as much as she would like to deny it. She should never have swapped with her Sick sister and taken advantage of Giselle like that. She didn't even feel sad for Giselle dying, it was like she was just some doppleganger in the end. Lost all respect for Ruby, she was everything the author swore she wasn't.
Por esta altura, Ruby quase que já fazia parte da minha vida e sei que estava ansiosa por ler o volume 4.
She marries her half brother/childhood sweetheart Paul but then has a secret affair with her baby’s father once he comes back into the story, then for some reason decides to inform Paul that she would like to switch places with her comatose twin so that she and Beau can be together, which ultimately leads Paul to drown in a drunken stupor.
Because that would give other people even more bad reasons to dislike our precious Ruby, and our ghost writer's ego is just too fragile to have his main character be purposely unlikable.I'll end my rant with Paul's mother, Gladys, who is supposed to be kind of a co-antagonist in this book simply due to the fact that she doesn't adore the crap that comes out of Ruby's ass.
Ruby is married to her half brother Paul, Giselle is still a bitch and is now married to Beau and Daphne conveniently falls off a horse and dies, so we don't have to worry too much about her any more.
The first half of the novel builds up to an affair between Ruby and Beau (why on earth she would want him back after he ditched her when she got pregnant and then married her sister is anyone's guess, but whatever,) and then the pair try to work out a way that they can be together, forever (obviously divorce or elopement isn't an option here,) they have no idea what is to be done and then ...
You only had to wait a year.
before you would have been given your trust money and then you could have lived a happy lie free life with pleanty of money.
In the meantime Gisselle marries Beau after convincing him that she's more like Ruby.
Gisselle becomes paralysed and goes into a coma so Beau comes up with this brilliant plan that Ruby and Gisselle can switch places.
He gets to live with the women he loves and Paul gets to look after a sick Gisselle.
except Paul, trust him to put a downer on the whole thing.
With her baby Pearl, Ruby was driven back to the bayou, and to her original roots.
If you know the secret, you would know why Ruby was so resistant, but of course, providing security for her daughter Pearl was high on Ruby's list, so she relented, against the wish of Paul's parents, Mr and Mrs Tate.
Ruby also thought she had no other choice, for the love of her life, and the father of Pearl, Beau, had moved on with her twin sister, Giselle.
The original lie started before Ruby was born, and has continued into the third book of the series.
If you did, you'll know what I'm talking about, if you didn't that's okay too, this will still make sense.
Ruby goes back to the Bayou to have her baby Pearl, and her half brother is still in love with her even though he knows they are half siblings!
She agrees to marry him so that he can take care of them since he is a rich oil tycoon now.
My question is - why does she have to marry him?
Why can't they just live together as brother and sister.
I spent the first two books kind of liking the main character, who always tried to do what was right or at least would not hurt people.
But towards the end of this book she makes a very stupid desion that didn't not fit with her character and in general it was a very stupid idea, that could not work.
Instead I spent the last part of the book skimming.Honestly I'm not sure if I'm going to read the 4th book because this one had me so mad, but I might read the 5th for the back story.
This book ended a lot better than I thought it would. For once, a VC Andrews book had an ending that was completely happy. I admit, some of the characters didn't turn out exactly as I thought they would, and mid-book I was more irate with the characters because things weren't going the way I wanted them to, but it ended very well. On to the next book in the series.
LIKED HOW DAPHENE HAD DIED, DID NOT LIKE HOW GISSEL DIED, WANTED HER TO EVENTUALLY BE THE KIND OF SISER RUBY WOULD HAVE WANTED. I WISH THAT PAUL WOULD HAVE BEEN ABLE TO FIND SOME ONE TO TRUELY LOVE.
best book in this particular saga
Enjoyed this one too! I have no idea what will be next...
I'm surprised that Beau moved on from Ruby.
I do feel she should see Giselle when she goes to New Orleans.
I couldn't believe Beau went back to Giselle.
Wonder if Paul will have his way with Giselle?
🤔I feel so angry that Beau n Ruby are finding excuses not to be blameful for Paul's misery.
I'm sad.Ugh Ruby and Beau are just so selfish.
I'm glad Paul's mother knew about Ruby pretending to be Giselle.
I had really liked Ruby but have just been disgusted with her since this.
I feel like they or at least one will be evil in Pearl's book.
They let themselves do the one thing that, in these books, only the rich douche bags obsessed with what society thinks and their family reputations do: create an elaborate ruse and live with elaborate lies in order cover up something/get what they want.
If Ruby gave as many shits as she acts like she does when it come to Jean and his welfare why the fuck didn't she ask Paul to help out?
Paul would face losing his parents if it meant being with Ruby but Catherine warns not to try to separate a Cajun man from his family.
Although the development of each characters and the stories was not what I wanted it to be, it describes struggles of human-irrational and unwise, which betrays our expectation to be more rational-toward their warped destiny from their birth.
The way Ruby, the main character here, coped with each given situations didn't really win my sympathy because I can't help but feel that she was somewhat selfish.
However, if you are agreeing that we are full of ironies and will gladly embrace it to bear some irritation, then....give it a try.
After all, I am not mature enough to embrace every spectrum of relationship even if I try hard.
Ruby is forced to return to the Bayou and re-begin her life there. But ghosts of her time as a Dumas continue to haunt her. She is torn between the two parts of her life, and decisions must be made. Again, a good book, but Ruby is still a giant Mary-Sue.
In my opinion, this book got off to a slow start but eventually got back into the "VC Andrew's twists and turns." In the beginning, I was annoyed with the fact that Ruby didn't even graduate high school, but acts like she's going on 35 and a know-it-all.
Ruby finally decided to marry Paul, even though she knows it's not right being they're half brother and sister.
Giselle and Beau marry, but things change when they come to visit Paul and Ruby.
Paul knows he will never get Ruby to come back to him, and disappears and dies in the canals.
La scène de la guerre de sécession m'a au passage parue complètement inappropriée (une chance que Ruby ne soit pas tombée enceinte...) De plus, je trouve celà tellement naïf qu'elle ait cru sur parole tout ce que Giselle lui écrivait !
Jusqu'à présent, Ruby est l'héroïne pour laquelle je suis le plus heureuse qu'elle ait réussi à retrouver son amour (peut-être parce que pour une fois, ce n'est ni son frère ni un homme qu'elle a considéré comme tel..)Ce que j'aime : la maladie de Giselle, la relation Chris/Ruby, le dévouement de PaulCe que j'aime moins : l'obsession de Paul, la décision stupide de Ruby de l'épouser, le destin de GiselleEn bref : Un beau tome qui permet de réunir enfin les amoureux et qui creuse un peu plus le personnage de RubyMa note 8/10
Typical V C Andrews storyline: Generally unlikeable, consistently mopey, female protagonist, who is somehow irresistibly beautiful, gentle, pure, and intelligent/talented, who has men throw themselves at her constantly at all points of time, finds out she's ridiculously wealthy (somehow), does some dumb shit, bad things happen as a result, "why, cruel fate?!?", some fam dies, evil matriarchal character (2 in this series so far!!!!!) tries to ruin the day.
Giselle was a superficial, nasty little brat who just wanted to throw her cat around.
Stepmother and Gladys Tate were just cruel old witches who wanted to destroy lives, and even Jeannie was painted as a ditzy little ninny.
I've enjoyed following Ruby thus far, but this book made me question her character.
In the past, Ruby has been the victim of circumstance and the decisions of the people around her.
However, throughout this book she leaves her own string of victims, while also telling herself that she is doing what is best for her child (lie).
Of course the book is written in Andrews' style, where she manages to take you from reality into whatever story she is telling.
You become enchanted by the roller coaster of emotion and tragedy that befalls Ruby, just like any one of her other main characters.
What more can happen to Ruby Dumas!
At first it is hard to sympathize with Ruby as easily as it was in the previous 2 books as it seems that everything going bad for her she brought onto herself.
I'm almost worried though that the momentum of Ruby's story may start to dwindle and fade, and become dull, but at the same time I am compelled to start reading and find out.Like I said.
I enjoyed this book and I am eager to start the next book and see what happens next.
This was OK, laughably far-fetched but I needed some brain candy after two days with the delightfully cheery Ms. Oates...
I can understand why they used someone to finish the incomplete work of [b] Garden of Shadows [/b] , but it seems strange that this series was written by someone elses under the name of a dead writer.

When I read these novels back in the day I would have given them 3-3.5 STARS and now would say about one StarI started reading VC Andrews books in the 1991 and stopped about 2003. I have read:-Dollanganger Series-Casteel Series-Cutler Series-Landry Series-Logan Series-Orphans Series-Wildflowers Series-Hudson Series-Shooting Stars Series-DeBeers Series-Broken Wings SeriesAs a preteen reading these novels was a rebellion and the gothic theme also seemed cool. I stopped reading this author because the novelty wore off, the novels are too formulaic that I could not tell one book from another and gothic aspect was lost.
Pearl in the Mist wasn't the best book in the Landry saga, but it is made up for in this book.
And unlike Secrets of the Morning/Twilight's Child in the previous series, the babydaddy in this one is actually a nice guy - so I'm not sure which guy to root for here.Of course, Daphne is up to her usual tricks - and if that's not enough, you have Gladys Tate.
With them and Giselle, Ruby sure does have a lot on her plate.
I would have to say that this is my favorite book in the Landry series.
Well, I rooted for Ruby in the last book, but this one made me go "Why you wanna go and do that?" Great story but some decisions were made, while ultimately ending up well, didn't start out so great in her favor.
I couldn't quite be on her side through the whole thing.
By the end I did actually cry a few tears.
I'll definitely finish this series because I like it a lot, however I'm taking a break from the soap opera that is Ruby Landry Dumas Tate Andreas's life (yeah....that's her full name).
Gotta read something a little spirit lifting for now!
The first time I read this book was about 20 years ago, when I was around 16-17 years old. I don't distinctly remember my feelings on the book then, but I'm sure they were different than they are now. I've always loved the character of Ruby Landry, but this book made me want to slap her. She is more selfish than in previous books, but it doesn't take away from the story at all. It's still a great book.
VC Andrews has always been a favorite of mine since my childhood days. I have read (and re-read) all of her books, and although I am much older now and find that some of her work is better than others, I still enjoy the twists and turns, strangeness and mystery that continues to captivate my interest. (even some of the ghostwriter's work)
Overall this was another good book by VC Andrews, and very typical of the books she writes. I have been enjoying this series very much. This book was probably the least believable of the series and the end really got rushed too much. I think it needed at least another 50 pages for the ending to play out in better detail.
The third entry in the Landry series is pure soap opera. It's so overdramatic and far-fetched that it's ridiculous, but at the same time so much fun! Like another reader said, if Ruby had just waited one more year she could have assumed control of her inheritance and avoided all of the heartache and drama. However, that wouldn't have made for as entertaining a story.
