https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/631097.The_Message_in_the_Hollow_Oak
I give this a 3-star review, just because my daughter so enjoys being read these Nancy Drew stories.
Someone gets kidnapped in almost every single Nancy Drew book!
Yet both were found unharmed and saved by Nancy.
And car accidents.
Almost every book Nancy gets in a car accident.
This book is set at an archaeological dig, and I was disappointed in the student's treatment of the skeletal remains that they found.
They seemed to be shown off as "trophies", which bones being taken into a barn and wired together by the students to make hanging skeletons.
No respect was shown for the remains.
It's one of the first times Nancy flies out to solve a mystery and the airport scenes were amusing in terms of how simple it used to be to just hop on a plane.
But things deteriorated quickly for me - again people are kidnapped - she flies all her friends out even though she was with other people which is annoying.
I enjoyed the new characters this book introduced and that certainly bumped it from two to three stars plus there was a goat inside the bedroom which was also a funny scene.
Whether or not you know anything about the different versions of Nancy Drew books, the books printed after 1959 are revised versions from the original Nancy Drew books. Only two of the original Nancy Drew books were totally rewritten when they were revised. This book is one of them. The other is The Secret of Shadow Ranch. I recommend reading both versions as the reader gets a better idea of how the original was written and how the revised version is different.
Revised edition (haven't read original). Grave robbing. Hated it - Nancy Drew and the other regular characters wouldn't do that. She and the others would have said it was wrong. I like archaeology such as exploring and searching places that aren't burial grounds. Desecrating graves is despicable as well as disrespectful. Forget this book if you want to read Nancy Drew - there are so many great Nancy Drew books you could read instead.
Very dark and mysterious Nancy Drew novel. This series is so much fun, because no two books are the same.
it turns out i actually did read the original and i do remember it being a lot more exciting.
I only remember the awkward social situation Nancy endures amongst the students who are involved in this "dig" for Native American artifacts, skeletons, etc.Here's the sitch: One of the students, whose name is "Art" is apparently a cool guy because he owns a motorcycle.
And she also has no desire to date Art, because most likely Art is a real drip.
Luckily Nancy passes him on to one of the other girl students involved in the dig.
Always steaks in these books.The mystery, as my memory somewhat activates, is a hidden treasure.
But it's a separate item from the dig, which looks for skeletons.
"The detective was of medium height. Although he was rugged looking, the man had a very kind face and Nancy thought his smile was enchanting. How different from many comic-strip detectives!""Ned and Dave followed, while Bess sat down on the ground, disconsolate.'Oh, don't be silly!' George chided her cousin. 'It wouldn't hurt you to go without a meal.''You're a good one to talk,' Bess replied. 'You eat all you want and stay slim. I can't help it if I get hungry.'"
Very good book! I think it was cool to see them dig up burial grounds and find treasure. I would recommend to all mystery and adventure lovers!!!
Every Nancy Drew mystery brings me back to grade school... Just waxing nostalgic last week. :). One of the better Nancy Drews I've read because Ned Nickerson joined the adventure. But I do hope I also get to read the original story someday. I wonder why they changed it?
Kadle was crazy obsessed with finding the treasure, yet he didn't find these two massive oaks with big lumps on them?
He instead chops a newer oak into a mess?
He decides to hire two thugs to harass Nancy and the archaeology crew?
Then Bess and Nancy give each other a wink and a smile.
Additionally, as a fan of archaeology, I was sickened to see how anyone could just pick up a shovel and dig.
But the lack of order and methodical work on the site with the tiresome mystery storyline just killed the book for me.
I would have tossed the book 3 chapters in.
I read a new printing of this book. I was at a used bookstore one day and saw it with a different cover. I opened it up, to my surprise the only thing the same between the old and the new was the title. The older 1932 copy is a lot better, it's more exciting.
I read all the Nancy Drew books (and the Hardy Boys) when I was a child, but I will admit that I have read them all again as an adult (a few years ago). The stories are old fashioned, but that's why I like them so much.
Standard fare for this series...which isn't a bad thing.
Fun to re-read these childhood favorites!
I haven't attempted to write an actual review at this point.In the older version, Nancy, Bess and George are in a great train wreck on the way to survey some land in Canada which Nancy has unrealistically won from a radio contest.
Other adventures in the novel include when a man tries to steal the deed to Nancy's land, which is apparently wanted by several parties because gold has been found on the property.
Nancy ends up staying with some college girls from an archeological dig, under the supervision of Theresa Bancroft, instead of her guardian Mrs. Donnelly in the original novel.
The Message in the Hollow Oak is a great Nancy Drew story, but not so much a mystery as an adventure.
To do so she will have to join a university archeological dig and hunt for an old oak tree that has legendarily got treasure hidden in it.
Not only does she make new friends on the dig, but she is also joined by Bess, George, Ned, Burt and Dave.
We know the bad guy from the start and the story is basically Nancy hunting for the right tree.
Nancy gains a new admirer leading to tension with Ned.
Impressively boring, even for a Nancy Drew story.
It shouldn't take more than a day to read one of these books, let alone nearly a month, but I was never excited to pick it up once I put it down.
Nancy is in Ohio (I think?) hanging out with a bunch of college students who're on an archaeology dig, scrounging up "ancient Indian" artifacts.
Someone else waves a gun around for a nearly half a page before the police barge in and the villain divulges every last detail very Scooby-Doobly.
Nancy is always solving those mysteries while getting herself caught in scary situations.
The only thing I do hate even though I believe everyone would hate the antagonist, was Kit Kadle.
And when Nancy found that box and open it.
I believe that Kit would be fairly disappointed, seeing as it's actually not a box full of gold but just some very valuable artifacts.
As always foiled again by Nancy Drew the great detective.
No one will ever get in her way or even scare her away she is the best and most bravest detective ever.
Nancy Drew and friends set out to solve an impossible-seeming mystery, one that is 300 years old.
How can there still be clues to follow?
Seems unrealistic, but that is explained by the fact that oak trees can live to be centuries old.
As usual, this mystery is fraught with danger, and the crooks are determined to have the treasure - at any cost!I don't remember reading this as a child, so I read this with fresh eyes.
I can imagine that as a child I would have been spooked by the idea of an old native burial ground and kidnappings.
This book is amazing. It is full of action and suspense. Something that I like that the author did was that at the end of every chapter she added a cliffhanger so that you wil want to keep reading the book. Something that I thing the author could do better in this book is not bring up the same topic all the time. Becides that, great book!
There were a lot of printing errors in my copy, making reading difficult at times. I enjoy history & archaeology, discovering old things that connect yesterday with today, so that part got me going. The bad guy activities seemed more violent, this is gradually increasing each book it seems, not sure the second set of books and on are good for kids.
Nancy Drew goes on another adventure of intrigue and suspense! With her friends, Dave, Burt, Ned and, cousins George,and Bess. She goes on a scavenger hunt left by Pere Francois, who left a treasure in a hollow oak tree. They meet Kit Kadle while on their hunt, who tries to kill them. However, they narrowly escape each time, and eventually find the amazing treasure.
Enjoyable book for young girls.
I fondly recall this as my favorite Nancy Drew. I never tire of reading these books.
The book "The Message in the Hollow oak" was an adventurous book with lots of mystery and exploring. I enjoyed this book and would recommend it!
A great, suspenseful mystery adventure with Nancy and her friends!
Not my favorite Nancy Drew story, but I still liked it! Reliving my girlhood!
I do not remember this one from when I was little. I am enjoying reading these, especially the ones I don't quite recall.
You can’t go wrong with some classic Nancy Drew!
