https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11292.Memories_of_a_Catholic_Girlhood
Overall, Memories of a Catholic Girlhood presents interesting snapshots of a child, then young adult's life being raised by relatives after the death of her parents.
She becomes a very young atheist, adept at manipulating the various systems in which she must live, be it the Preston household, the convent school, the new high school or, apparently, adult life.I liked the sections where she steps back from the stories and assesses what she has written with an authorial eye a bit less passionately.
(2.5 stars!)The essays that make up Memories of a Catholic Girlhood are not particularly memorable, despite being written in McCarthy's wonderful, smart, smart prose.
Each essay was written for a magazine, and McCarthy frankly picks apart her own memory after sharing the original text, examining what she thinks she fabricated and why, and where she can't be sure what's truth and what's fiction.
I feel like I learned more about McCarthy from her dissection of her own writing than from the essays themselves.
This is a very good autobiography that tackles the issue of "losing faith" without ever offending or mocking others.McCarthy finds a careful balance between sharing her personal story of life after her parents died during the flu epidemic in the first quarter of the 1900s and talking about the pivotal moment when she went from devout Catholic to atheist.I found it very interesting and extremely well written.
It was a very interesting way to read an autobiography.
What's most interesting about this memoir is how McCarthy takes all the choices she makes as a memoirist and subjects them to scrutiny. She talks about the temptation to fictionalise, the dubious reliability of memory, the reasons to include or exclude information, the implications for truthtelling of shaping life events and memories into a coherent narrative, the compromises and failures inherent in the form. Quite fascinating.
I first read this in a house Mary McCarthy visited, her Vassar '33 classmate's at Westport Harbor, a grand house with glazed bookshelves containing classics--and McCarthy's Group, which included the hostess as one of the characters.
I read it in a grand corner room above the library, with a few books like Lenin's Lettres à sa famille, and with Cambodian bow (for the hunt) over the fireplace, bow windows overlooking a non-archery foxhunt.
The hunt took place over a turnip field that has since given rise to the giant home of a society architect who has a summer home a half mile down the road, on the beach.
Mary McCarthy lost both of her parents to influenza within a week of each other as they were traveling to Minnesota to begin a new life. She was shipped off at age 6 to live with her draconian aunt and uncle. At 11, she was finally "saved" by wealthy grandparents in Seattle. Fantastic, beautifully written memoir with sharp characterizations and told with rapier-sharp wit.
Going to the incomplete shelf. Too many interruptions. This is a classic-style memoir with some great lyrical prose by McCarthy. Her parents pass and the four children find themselves orphans. Their grand aunt takes them in and the grand uncle is an abusive fool. But throughout the book, Mary interrupts to explain scenes and her perception of what really did happen: imagination or reality? Huh? I keep waiting to get to the real story here but with the interruptions, seems like I'm reading two books...I'll try again later.
McCarthy is a good storyteller and this is an easy, absorbing read. Her relationships with women as she describe them here, especially her grandmothers and her schoolmates, are reflected in some of her later writings. She has this odd combination of snobbery/mean-girl-ism and sympathy/insight. She admits to her prejudices and failings, but doesn't really apologize for them, which is both annoying and refreshing.
Well, all I can say is thank heavens I am finished with this book. I'll be writing more later but I found this to be a difficult read with a confirmed unreliable narrator. It is difficult to keep going when you question everything. I quickly developed a lack of trust and that is not good when the book is a memoir. More later.
Inasmuch as McCarthy stresses throughout the book that she is an atheist, a reader in 2015 must bear in mind that in the mid-twentieth century, a serious declaration of atheism brought with it a lot of social condemnation.
Mary McCarthy showed considerable bravery in making this public statement.Remember that Mark Twain, who died only thirty years before the first sections of this book appeared in THE NEW YORKER, kept his expressions of atheism confined to his diary.
Had he not established himself before the war, he would not have flourished.) We may laugh at religious extremists today, but well into Mary McCarthy's time, someone trying to persuade the public that atheism was a valid stance had to be prepared to be shunned.
Mary McCarthy's autobiographical collection of essays originally appeared in "The New Yorker" and "Harper's Bazaar" between 1946 and 1955.
The McCarthy children, including Mary's three brothers, lost their parents in the flu epidemic of 1918 after an ill-advised move by train from Seattle to Minneapolis during the worst weeks of the epidemic.
How would we ever have memoirs to read if young, free-spirited parents did not subject their children to foolish or desperate adventures?
After a stint with stingy Minneapolis relatives, where the children were practically starved to death, Mary returned to Seattle and lived with her maternal grandparents in a state of over-protection and confused religious beliefs.
(2016 review) I think what unsettles people about the title is that they assume "Catholic" refers only to the religion.
BUT (and this is significant), i also think McCarthy is referring to the adjective "catholic" (small c) here.
After each chapter, McCarthy includes an account of what she knows to be absolutely true in the chapter that preceded, what details she's fuzzy on, or what she flat-out invented to make a good story.
************************************************************************(2007 review)All these stories are great, and the one in which she tells of her abusive Uncle Myers is, more so than the others, particularly devastating.
It's great!The thing I enjoyed so much about this book is that is doesn't attempt to portray the experience of living the memories it recalls, but presents them with hindsight and a sense of fair mindedness.
McCarthy talks about the adults from her childhood more with a sense of pity than resentment, and with the forgiving air of a cultured intellectualism that is both over their capacity, and afforded her by the education their station provided.The "horrors" (while there are some) are surprisingly few.
Very much recommended.Also, being an atheist as well, I thought McCarthy's thoughts on religion and her religious life in childhood in the 'To the Reader' section were great.
Stories of McCarthy's childhood as an orphan raised by two different households.
This is only partly "about" the author's experiences: she muffles her tragedy (the early death of lighthearted parents to the influenza pandemic in 1919) by draping it in a child's ignorance, and her bitterness (as a pauper relation, briefly) is lightened by an adult's ironic distance.
The book is written at two (really many) points: first as articles published in magazines, and again as commentaries on the original articles.
This structure foregrounds McCarthy's interest in the ways that memories are engineered by the present continually to rebuild the past -- always certain, always malleable, often incomplete, and always with her.
Though I love Mary McCarthy's books, this is my least favourite.
There is a melancholy throughout the text that actually has a depressive effect - never found this with her other books especially The Company She Keeps and The Group, both of which have just the right balance of humour and pathos.
I do still delight in McCarthy's talent at pithy, yet unpretentious prose and looking forward to reading soon her late work How I Grew.
Memories is worth reading, just not top of my rankings of McCarthy's canon.
I always knew McCarthy's parents both died in the influenza epidemic of 1918.
But I never knew what happened to her (and her 3 younger brothers) after that.
McCarthy gives us the searing details: the horrid relatives who made them sleep with tape over their mouths to prevent "mouth breathing".
(What is with that?) and the terrible food and no toys or friends.
How unimportant children were is emphasized, both in the treatment by the aunt and uncle who were paid to raise them, and by the other relatives and the schools.
McCarthy is a wonderful writer and this is surely a classic memoir.
This was an interesting book about the sad loss of the author's parents during the influenza epidemic in 1918 and the circumstances that followed. The four children who survived the illness were parcelled out to various family members where they were treated as poor relations and in some cases mistreated and unloved. The book was very 'wordy', this is perhaps because it was publish in 1946 but I don't really think that is the case as many of its contemporaries are far less so. I suppose this was the misery memoir of its day. Interesting but hard going.
Whew, what an upbringing she had -- absolutley Dickensian in that her guardians were abusive, unloving, and essentially horrid!McCarthy has a laser-beam ability to cut to the heart of people and their motiviations; very interesting to read her thoughts on religion especially.McCarthy is best known as the writer of the book "The Group." After reading her memoir, I'm interested in reading one of her fiction books.
McCarthy remembers and then fact checks. This memoir changed how I thought about memory and rememory. The idea that one can clearly recall something that is potentially not true at all is both terrifying and fascinating. McCarthy pushed me to consider the boundaries of memory and to accept that we do not always know the "truth" behind a memory.
Didn't really enjoy this - although a memoir by an established author of fiction, the author admitted in the introduction and in sections at the end of each 'chapter' or 'story' that things may not have happened exactly as she had just written about it! Not terribly impressed I'm afraid: 4.5/10.
I love biography. Especially when an author can get inside their long-ago mind. When they reveal unbelievably embarassing things about themselves. When I'm exposed to new worlds or history. This is a great book for all those reasons.
I savored every page of this beautifully written memoir. Now I know why Mary Karr is always raving about it!
The title does not do justice to this charming autobiography about an atheist who grew up as a Catholic in a variety of households. I was simply laughing at multiple moments in this text.
Worse, he actively took against Mary herself, in the disturbing incident of the tin butterfly, setting the girl up as a thief meriting harsh physical punishment, whilst all the time knowing the true fact of her innocence.But McCathy’s recounting of these events is developed alongside a pondering on the way memory works.
There is a sense that somewhere the fact of the Preston (her mother’s family) women’s commitment to Catholicism emerges from within this complex of relations between the women of the older generation.The memories are compiled long after McCarthy had given up on religion and the matter arises as to how she saw the experience as she advanced into her middle years.
Took me a while to read this, in part because the openjng chapters tell a horrific story of McCarthy’s abuse at the hands of sadistic relatives. The story moves to her subsequent life with her grandparents and her occasionally comic brushes with Catholicism. Not clear that McCarthy ever made sense of her childhood, and book ends on a note of bewilderment.
Maybe I read this book too late – too long after Mary McCarthy was writing, arguing publicly with Lillian Hellman, and taking courageous, and to some outrageous, social and political stands.
Her life was assigned to them when she lost her doting and fun-loving parents in an instant at the outbreak of the deadly 1918 flu epidemic.
Her grandmother almost a fanatic.) Her parents were just in the process of moving from Seattle (her mother’s hometown) to Minneapolis (her father’s hometown) when they contracted the deadly flu.Until she was eleven she and her brothers lived with their great aunt and her sadistic husband in Minneapolis.
I had thought that the book would be more interesting the further I got into it, but was never satisfied with the direction in which the author took her story.
The author's writing style was well crafted and she was able to effectively tell her story through the short scenes she depicted.
Each part in the story held some interesting features and I believe that if the author had developed each experience more the book would be significantly different in a way that would appeal more to myself and others who enjoy reading similar books as me.
McCarthy is such a clever, comical writer who attacks topics way ahead of her time (I could barely bring myself to say a lot of her reservations about Catholicism to my more devout family members, even today).
I should use examples here but I don't feel like walking several steps to get my book, so I will come back to this.Growing up with a very religious mother/family, I wrestled with doubts from a young age.
McCarthy had a much more severe, tragic upbringing following the deaths of her parents in rapid succession.
I admire that McCarthy is able to tackle these subjects without bitterness or resentment.
For example, Ms. McCarthy sets up Memories of A Catholic Girlhood acknowledging the various ways truth can be reshaped in writing the story of one's life; an author might forget the particular details and need to create them in order to fill in the blanks of her story or she may just want to change the details because it makes the story more fun.
In this author's case she followed each chapter of her story with a chapter setting the record straight.
Peter Tonguette in National Review recommended this memoir over against McCarthy's novels, which he argues do not transcend her own time.
Interesting that I read this shortly after finishing a Dawn Powell novel; McCarthy is sort of like a junior-varsity version of Powell.
Yet I'm glad I read the recommended memoir, even if I never open the novels.
McCarthy had quite a varied childhood.
Her thoughts on the awful aspects of this upbringing are worthwhile, as well as her description of losing her Catholic faith.One interesting feature of this volume is that it comprises several articles she wrote for various publications.
