https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4004.The_Pilgrimage

He begins his journey with a guide, also a member of RAM, who goes by the alias Petrus.
I enjoy every book by Paulo Cuelho that I've read (12 to date) and this one, his first, has touched me in tha same way the Alchemist did.
Perhaps it's the common theme of searching for a way a path a meaning and the fact that I can empathise strongly with the sentiment, having walked that exact road to Santiago.
The mysticism in some of the events of the journey, with hindsight, are a bit too far of a step for me personally but the whole journey of the pilgimage to Santiago and the learning and growth acheived by the author do strike a chord and I'm sure it will in others.
Altogether an easy read that inspires and teaches in an unassuming way.
و أعتقِد أنني لو حاولت مقارنتها بالممارسات الدينية – الإسلامية فستكون أقرب للعبادات التفكّرية و التأمّلية كذلك.من قراءتي له اكتشفت كذلك أهمية تحديد “الهدف” في الحياة، و بناءً عليه أجبت على سؤالٍ وردني في تمبلر.
باولو حين بدأ الرحلة كان هدفه معرفة مكان السيف و الحصول عليه، لكن السؤال الأهم: ما الذي سيقوم به إذا حصل على السيف؟، و نظراً لانشغاله بهذا الهدف غفِل عن أمورٍ كثيرة كالسيْرِ في المكان ذاته عدة مرات أو عدم تنبّهه لوجود أعداء مثلاً.
حين أقرأ لهذا الرجل؛ أشعر بالاكتفاء من معرفة الأشياء التي يقولها، فهو يعطي القارئ تفاصيل المكان دون أن يسلُبَه حقّ تخيّل المكان/ الشيء الذي يتحدث عنه.
لكل الأصدقاء الذين وضعوا الإعجاب قبل كتابتى للمراجعة، شكـــرًا لثقتكم  (*^_^*)حاج كومبوستيلاسيرة ذات
I really hated this book. In fact, it is the second worst book I've ever read (first being the Voyage of Somebody the Sailor). The story made no sense, and key parts of it were left unexplained (what is RAM? what is The Tradition?). I suppose you might get some philosophical value from it, but I didn't really think any of it was earth-shattering or even worth a raised eyebrow. The only redeeming quality was that it was short and went quickly.
أيضاً كان لهذه الفلسفة أثر في طريقة كتابة كويلو نفسها, فتجد أن حبكات رواياته سلسه, وأفكاره واضحة, وتعابيره سهله, وكلماته بسيطة.يعتقد الكثير من القراء أن كويلو كرّر نفسه في كل من رواية ( حاج كومبوستيلا ) ورواية ( الخيميائي )؛ نظراً لأن كلتاهما تدوران حول البحث والسفر, بالإضافة إلى أن أسبانيا شكلت مسرحاً مهماً لكل من الروايتين.
والغاية، أو السانتياغو الحقيقي، هو الموت”.في عام 2006, وكاحتفال بمرور عشرين عاماً على صدور رواية ( حاج كومبوستيلا ) قرّر كويلو أن يقوم بقطع طريق ( مار يعقوب ) مرة أخرى, وقد أنشاء مدوّنة على الإنترنت لينقل هذه التجربة للقراء أثناء حدوثها ( أضغط هنا لزيارتها ).النسخة العربية, الصادرة من شركة المطبوعات للتوزيع والنشر, ذات ترجمة رائعة, أتقدم هنا بالشكر الجزيل للأستاذة ( ماريا طوق ) لهذه الترجمة المميزة.
The Pilgrimage is the first book by Brazilian author, Paulo Coelho, and translated into English by Alan Clarke.
As a devotee of the Tradition, at 38 years old, Paulo makes the mistake, at the ceremony of his ordination as a Master of the Order of RAM, of assuming he is worthy of the sword, and then learns that he will have to travel the Road to Santiago de Castelin (aka the Jacobean route, the Milky Way) in Spain, to find it.
This book is his account of that pilgrimage, undertaken in 1986 with a Master of RAM guide, Petrus.
This is the 4th Paulo Coelho book I've read, and my least favorite so far.
Not that there's anything wrong with it, per se, but I can definitely see his evolution as a writer from this (his first) to The Witch of Portobello (his most recent and one of my faves).For me, this book was slower, less relatable (if only because very few people are on this kind of a mystical quest) and just less smoothly written overall.
I also had a hard time sympathizing with the protagonist.Now, that's not to say that there was nothing good about this book!
It completely depends if you feel attracted to the book and the story.It gives the reader an awful lot to think about.
One quote from the book grabbed me extremely, probably because I have been a teacher all my live."The secret is', Petrus finally said, 'you can only learn when you are teaching.
By becoming a guide I found my own way."This remark has played a lead in my work as a teacher.
I taught them the elementary thing: reading, writing and math and they have taught me how they find their ways with the achievements of men over the centuries.
This was a truly dreadful, embarrassing book. I wish I could give it negative stars. To say it was self-indulgent navel-gazing is too good. As I got into it, I became furtive when reading on the train, for fear someone who knew the book would see me and conclude I was a moron, or hopelessly seeking life's meaning in all the wrong places.
“A dazzing tale of the road traveled by ordinary people.” Coelho's book traverses the story and journey of a man (himself) learning to be extraordinary through the paradoxical beauty of simply understanding what is ordinary.  What struck me as I gobbled up this book in a mere afternoon was the easygoing cadence and accessibility of language that Coelho employs throughout his book; he doesn't try to dazzle you with vernacular or prose, it's simply inherent in the story itself. And to me, that's t
“A dazzing tale of the road traveled by ordinary people.” Coelho's book traverses the story and journey of a man (himself) learning to be extraordinary through the paradoxical beauty of simply understanding what is ordinary.
What struck me as I gobbled up this book in a mere afternoon was the easygoing cadence and accessibility of language that Coelho employs throughout his book; he doesn't try to dazzle you with vernacular or prose, it's simply inherent in the story itself.
And to me, that's the message the book is trying to impart upon us; that an ordinary person can achieve extraordinary things.
A book which, even it’s not the best of Paulo Coelho, you can not stop reading when you start it thanks to his nice and sweet style.
It’s a journey of a piligrime and It’s also a personnel developpement book which you need it along your life.
Paulo Coelho takes the road of Santiago de Compostela in order to find his sword, looking for his secret therefore he takes the true path to find himself.This book teach us how to know what we want, how to communicate with the world, how to see things differently and specialy how to fight the good fight.
And only the person who listens to the sounds of the moment is able to make the right decisions"So, I have finished this novel or let's say autobiography in 12 days, but I couldn't digest the whole story!!
So I asked for help from my old friend "Google" and he was of a great help as usual.As far as I understand, Paulo tried to attain " The tradition" which is a new higher level rank in his christian society, he failed as a result he didn't deserve the sword of this level, his fraternity master orders him to perform a "redo" of the final test by making the santiago pilgrimage.
If he succeeds by finishing the pilgrimage and learning some basic life lessons, he will receive his sword and rank as a MASTER.Throughout his spiritual journey.
a magnificent read!the Strange Road to San Tiago and everything that happens on it, is nothing but a mirror of each and everyone's life journey! the book is a reminder that life is brilliant and that we are capable of so much more than we beleive we are... it is the limiting beleifs that we have that stop us from becomimg who we are supposed to be..definitely worth reading!
Bir Simyacı değildi ama yinede hızlıca olunabilir ve içerisinden alınacak bişeyleri olan güzel bir kitap:)“Gemi limanda güvendedir, ama gemiler limanda beklemeleri için yapılmaz.”"izleyeceğimiz en iyi yolun hangisi olduğunu her zaman biliriz, ama yalnızca alışık olduğumuz yolu izleriz"
خداوند انتقام نیست،عشق است. تنها تنبیه و مجازات او این است که تمام کسانی را که راه عشق را بسته و یک اثر عاشقانه را. متوقف کرده اند، وادار به ادامه ی آن میکند. ****ما رویاهای خودمان را می کُشیم ، برای اینکه از یک (نبرد خوب) میترسیم. ***(عشق واقعی) در حال (رشد) بوده،دنیا را به حرکت دراورده و انسان را داناتر میکند. ***اگرچه به زبان انسانها و فرشتگان سخن بگويم ،حتی دارای عطیه و ویژگی های پیامبری و رسالت باشم،و ایمانی برای تکان دادن کوهها داشته باشم، بدون (عشق) هیچ چیز نخواهم بود...
This novel, Paulo Coelho's first widely published one, at times feels like a travelogue, sometimes a how-to-do-it-by-yourself book on relaxation and at times like a fantasy novel: what with Paolo being able to talk to his "messenger" (guardian angel), fought with a dog by biting and behaving like a dog, climbing a waterfall naked and with his search for his sword (like Excalibur, my goodness).Paolo Coelho (born in 1947) dreamed of becoming a writer even at a very early age.
Had Coelho not gotten the attention of readers by his supernatural-laden pilgrimage to Compostela, there could not have been The Alchemist which is also one of the best-selling books in history.I read The Alchemist a few years ago and I rated it with 3 stars.
Perjalanan Paulo Coelho di Jalan Santiago yang berada di Spanyol, perjalanan spiritual untuk mencari jatidirinya.
Atau mungkin tidak punya nyali untuk memulainya!Dari semua latihan yang dia sebutkan, Latihan Kecepatan membuatku tertegun.
Saat aku membacanya aku ingat tentang jalan yang selalu aku lalui ketika berangkat dan pulang dari kantor.
Di jalan itu ada seorang pria yang berusia sekitar 50 - 60 tahun dengan rambut yang mulai memutih semua duduk di depan rumahnya.
Setiap pagi dan malam aku menemukannya duduk di bangku yang sama, terkadang ada sepeda di sebelahnya.
لا بأس ثلاث نجمات و زيادة عليها
فالله موجود بنظرنا لكن اذا كان هناك من لا يؤمن به فهذا لايعني ان الله غير موجودالسفر الذي كان في البداية عذاباً لأنك لاتريد الا الوصول، بدأ يتحول الى متعة ، متعة السعي والمغامرة ، هذا هو الغذاء الحقيقي لأحلامنا..لايستطيع الانسان ان يكف عن الحلمالحلم هو غذاء الروح كما ان الطعام غذاء الجسدوغالباً ماتخيب احلامنا،وتحبط رغباتنا خلال مسيرة حياتنا ولكن هذا الامر يجب الايمنعنا من الاستمرارفي الحلمان العارض الأول الذي يتسم به قتل الحلم هو التذرع بعدم توفر الوقتفالناس الأكثر انشغالاً الذين رأيتهم في حياتي كانو يملكون الوقت لكل شيءعندما نتخلى عن احلامنا لصالح السلام والراحة، نبلغ مرحلة قصيرة من السكينة.
رواية رائعة اخرى من الكاتب الكبير باولو كويلو, ما قرأت في الرواية عن طريق الحج في اسبانية واسترداد س
قد سبق و قرأت الخيميائي فكانت من أجمل ما قرأت , ثم قرأت الزانية ..
لم أستمتع بقراءتها كما في الخيميائي , حاج كمبوستيلا كانت لاقرر وجهة نظري في الكاتب ...
نجحت هذه الرواية في نزع الخيميائي من مرتبة اعمالي المفضلة فقد بدت ضئيلة إذا ما قورنت بعظمة هذا العمل ...
من أجمل و أروع و أعمق و أمتع ما قرأت ...
رحلة روحانية لا تصدق في غياهب النفس البشرية اختلف مع المترجم في كثير مما ترجم ..
فالشيطان الشخصي قد اميل لترجمته \ قريناً\ و هناك بعض التفاصيل الاخرى التي أظنني كنت لأفهمها بصورة افضل لو تمت ترجمتها بصورة مختلفة المهم ..
یکی از صحنه های کتاب رو دوس داشتم و اون حمله بردن به سگ سیاه بودتا با ترس روبه رو نشی از بین نمیرهکتاب زیاد بدی نبود و بعضی چیزای آموزنده داشتاینکه تا راهنمای کسی نشی،نمیتونی راهی که قبلا رفتی رو درک کنییعنی تا چیزی رو که آموختی درس ندی،پی به ماهیت و ذاتش نمیبریبا همه این ها کتاب رو نپسندیدم:)
Funny how many things change dramatically without us noticing them for they are happening slowly, tell we step back and notice, like my nose getting bigger, I didn't notice it till I looked back at my elementary school photos, or maybe the rest of my face got smaller.I didn't do the Pilgrimage to Mecca, the time has not come yet.
But looking at the Pilgrimage done in the novel I feel nostalgic, like I've done it before.
Is this feeling invoked by my life Pilgrimage I talk about above?
Perhaps only this: It's not the question of whether end justifies means, it's that means matter the most.-----He mentioned Buñuel's The Milky Way (1969) film in the beginning of the book, it's about two men doing the pilgrimage.
To tell you the truth, after reading this book, I'd like to experience it myself...But enough about me, let's get straight to the reviewing process.
Many people complain, that parts in this book are written in a way that only Paulo can understand the full meaning, but this doesn't mean the book isn't worth reading if it can't be fully understood.
This book isn't one of those that can be grasped with your first try as all the other books by this author.
That's what I like the most about Paulo's books, that they aren't a one time thing.
I finished another Paulo Coelho book.
I like the writings of Paulo because of the life in it.
The Christian imageries he uses whole along his novel makes it more lively.
Sometimes this type of novels gives us a power to fight a good fight.
The novel was teaching to listen to the inner voice.
This is my fourth experience with Paulo Coelho he is always inspiring me and go with full power.
He is taking his own saint Paul in his writings.
Many times the words of Saint Paul came alive in this novel.
هو التجربة الأولي لباولو كويلو في التأليفهو بداية الطريق وبداية الرحلة الرحلة بالعالم الأصغر النفسهو بداية المعرفة بالذات وبداية الوصول اليها كتاب يمتاز بالطابع الروحاني الصوفي لكتابات باولو كويلوقصة مختلفة عن رجل يبحث عن سيفه علي طريق قديمة كانت تستعمل في الشعائر الدينية جغرافيا هي تصل ما بين منطقتين ونهايتها هي مدينة " سانتياجو دو كومبوستيلا "واقعيا هي ما بين شخصك القديم والوصول إلي ذاتك الجديدة كتاب سيغير فيك شيئا ما بالتأكيد شيئ ما سيتغير
رحلة اكتشاف النفس وجماعة رام(عندما تريد شيئا ما فإن الكون بأسره يتضافر ليوفر لك تحقيق رغبتك)http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AvfXLD...
بقيت أنتظر قراءة هذا الكتاب بفارغ الصبر منذ زمن, ولم ارد ان اقراه الا على مساحة من تهيؤ فكري لهعلى أساس أنه رحلة روحية.
فالنهار يمضي ببطء؛ و انت غالبا لا تفهم اللغة التي يتكلم بها الناس؛ كأنك تشبه طفلا خرج من بطن أمه للتو"---------------------------------------وكل يوم نرى دائما الطريق المثلى التي يجب سلوكها, لكننا نمشي في الطريق التي ألفناها.-------------------------------- إنها تحاول أن تصنع النظام في العالم لانها نفسها مشوشة-----------------------------------السر هو إنك لا تستطيع أن تتعلم, حتى تعلم---------------------------------إن السعي وراء السعادة أمر شخصي, وأن لا وجود لنموذج نستطيع نقله للأخرين-----------------------------------------سأتوصل يوما إلى أن افهم أن الناس يصلون دوما في الوقت المناسب, إلى حيث ننتظرهم
