https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25365530-good-me-bad-me
Gold and black with gold raised lettering....Gorgeous!I was pulled in from the first sentence:"Forgive me when I tell you it was me"The book opens as Annie is talking to a detective who can't believe what he's hearing.
New family.Shiny.New.Me.After her mother was arrested, Annie (now known as Milly) didn't speak for three days.
I was a bit frustrated with how everyone in Milly's life seemed oblivious to what was happening.With everything going on, It feels like it's just a matter of time before Milly explodes.What will happen when Milly has finally had enough?Wow....This really was quite a book.
The story is told through the eyes of fifteen- year old Milly, who has just turned her own mother, a serial killer, over to the authorities.
Summarily, Milly is placed in foster care, in what appears to be an ideal household, with her foster father, Mike, doubling as her therapist.
Her expertise was put to good use, and was without a doubt a monumental advantage in portraying the psychology behind Milly’s unbearable angst.
Overall, I think this novel is one of the best psychological thrillers I’ve read this year.
Now in foster care, she is doing her best to fit in and enjoy what family life is supposed to be like....normal.
This book just didn’t work for me.
A majority of the book felt like a drawn-out episode of mean girls.
Was it the child abuse, the dysfunctional families...?
Well it’s not like I don’t read these themes in books...because I consistently do.
There was just something about this book I found unsettling.
A wonderful traveling sister reading experience (as always) with Brenda, Norma and Lindsay!For our full traveling sister review please visit Norma and Brenda's fantastic book blog: http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
Millie used to be the abused daughter, Annie, of a serial killer mother whose victims were children.
Annie becomes Millie, and is fostered into the care of Mike, a trained therapist and his wife, Saskia.
Millie wants that new start in her life but is it really possible for this to materialise?Phoebe is the fifteen year old daughter of Mike and Saskia.
The case is getting intense media coverage where her mother is referred to as 'The Peter Pan Killer'.
She has feelings of guilt as to her role in her mother's actions.
It is not so easy to leave her old life behind.
The fact is, she was unable to help any of the children, and the last murder was just too much for Annie to bear, because she was very close to the victim.Annie is sent to live with a foster family and her name is changed to Milly.
Sleep continues to evade her as her mother invades her dreams turning them into nightmares, and even during waking hours she senses her presence all around her.The author gets right into the psyche of this psychologically damaged girl, and the dialogue would suddenly change from fairly normal matters to Milly airing thoughts that would stop you in your tracks and chill to the bone.
Good Me, Bad Me is one f*cked up character study of the daughter of a serial killer.  15 year old Annie, daughter of the notorious “Peter Pan” serial killer is struggling with the darkness inside her. For the majority of her childhood, she witnessed her mother kidnap and murder children. Annie was forced to participate in her mother’s sick and twisted games. She also was subjected to years of physical, mental, and sexual abuse.When finally turns her mother into the police, Annie is given the op
Good Me, Bad Me is one f*cked up character study of the daughter of a serial killer.
15 year old Annie, daughter of the notorious “Peter Pan” serial killer is struggling with the darkness inside her.
She also was subjected to years of physical, mental, and sexual abuse.When finally turns her mother into the police, Annie is given the opportunity to start over and create a new identity.
She is taken in by a foster family and assumes the identity of “Milly.” Milly strives to be good, but she constantly hears her mother’s voice urging her to do bad things.
3.5 Stars.* (rounded up)Creepy to the Max.Milly is not just your ordinary foster girl.
She wants to be of course, but it’s just not possible you see - her mother is a killer.
All Milly wanted was to fit in somewhere but soon she realizes that foster care isn’t all that it’s cracked up to be.
Milly’s foster dad Mike is also a psychologist and he’s been helping her cope with her ordeal.
“Good Me Bad Me” was a creepy and captivating character study of Milly, in addition to being a psychological thriller.
For the Twisted Sister Norma it was a very different experience as she really got into the minds of the characters as the narrator of the audiobook was absolutely brilliant and really showed how creepy and disturbing these characters really were.Towards the end of the book Norma and Kaceey were feeling a sense of creepy dread leaving Kaceey feeling like she didn’t want to finish and Norma a sense of foreboding that didn’t sit well and was scared to finish.
I do think regardless it will be a popular book and a great one for book clubs due to the great discussion that could be generated!This is the story of a young woman, her mother is a serial killer and as a child she was witness to things no child should ever be subjected to.
If you love to get into the headspace of dark, damaged and complex characters you will really enjoy this book.
I enjoyed the characters in the book very much and felt like I had found a good escapist novel where I was in the book, forget the real world whilst reading.
This young teen, who had so much to forget, had already been through so much, witnessed something beyond terrible, who now just wanted to be normal, and in a home where people cared about her in a healthy way.
A therapist household sounds ideal but there was more going on here, making this a less than healthy environment for a troubled young girl.
Definitely hooked me, turning the pages, one of the better ones out there Imho.
Mistakes made by those professional enough to know better.
Couldn't really see it ending any other way.ARC from Netgalley.
Of course Annie is taken into the foster care system and is now living under the new identify of "Milly" with her foster family.
Milly starts her new life with this family and wants to be "normal"....but she is struggling with a darkness inside of her that constantly brings her back to flashbacks of her life as Annie.Milly/Annie can't let go of her mother and is struggling to move past her trauma.
The dark and dysfunctional relationship of Annie and her mother unfolds throughout the novel giving us a better picture of what truly happened to Annie.The question is WHO is the daughter of the famous Peter Pan killer?
This was a suspenseful, unsettling and creepy story revolving around the daughter of a serial killer.
The creepy and disturbing parts of this story are handled extremely well and are done in a way that didn't give too much detail (which I was very thankful for).
The short and broken sentences provided the effect of being in the mind of Milly, the teenage daughter of a serial killer, yet this narration ended up becoming overkill and annoying after a while.
I don't enjoy reading about high school girl bullies and this book had a lot of that.To find our full Traveling Sister Read review, please visit Brenda and Norma's fabulous blog at: https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
The very first sentence of the blurb reads: "Milly's mother is a serial killer."  WHAAAT?
I'd much rather read a disturbed person's musings than read about any horrific killing scene they may have engaged in.The story is told solely through Milly's eyes and consists mostly of internal thoughts over dialogue or action.
The foundation of this story is built on Milly starting her shiny new life at the age of 15, having just turned in her mother for the atrocious crimes.
But, after reading GOOD ME BAD ME, I realize I do like a bit more plot and action in a novel.Ali Land's sentences are concise, no commas needed.
This is a book that generated a lot of hype and because of that I was a little hesitant going into it.
As a result of this arrest, Milly (formerly known as Annie) moves in with a foster family to prepare for the upcoming trial and to attempt a new life without her Mom. Milly's development throughout the book was very intriguing.
She feels strongly about not ending up like her Mom and we see this thought process throughout the book.
I think the first half of the book was a little slower than the second half, hence the 4 star review.
The secrets of her past wont let her sleep even with a new family and a new Name  MillyI was a little nervous starting this one as I was afraid that the author would be too graphic about the murders and I really didn't want to go down that road but thankfully the reader is spared any gruesome details and the book is an extremely clever and well written Psychological thriller.
All the thrilling stars to Good Me, Bad Me!
Milly, the daughter of a serial killer, was a masterfully drawn, complex character.
Land's writing takes you right inside Milly's innermost thoughts, almost reading like a journal.
I keep holding myself back in writing this review because I don't want to give anything away.
It's all too good!
I will say that I kept expecting gruesome, gory details to be revealed (hello, serial killer book?!), but Ali Land has a skilled way of writing that is spine-chilling without going there.
Thanks to Ali Land and Flatiron books, I received a complimentary ARC.
The above thoughts are my own.
I had previously read good reviews for this book from Goodread friends so when I was offered the opportunity to read it I felt I couldn't refuse.This is the debut novel by Ali Land that is due to be released in January 2017 and I am sure that it will be one of the books of the year.
This excellent psychological thriller will be a big success and I know we will hear a lot more from this author.The story is based around Annie who has changed her name to Milly and is now living a new life with a new family after her mother goes on trial for murdering young children.
I received the ARC of Good Me Bad Me from Flatiron Books and Author, Ali Land for an honest review.
A slow burn, one that may reveal its outcome before books end but one that is still darn good.
The ability of Ali Land in structuring this plot, her character of Annie/Millie, one person split in two personalities, and our conception or perception of what constitutes good or bad, good or evil, a bad seed kept me turning the pages.
I’m hoping Ms. Land kept this quote by Carson McCullers, 1917-1967 in the finished product as it certainly provided the first hook:But the hearts of small children are delicate organs.
Good Me Bad Me was an excellent thriller that I found hard to put down. I liked the character Milly even though it was sometimes difficult to know if she was telling the truth. I felt a lot of sympathy for her not only with her upbringing but also with the school bullies and the fact that she felt that she was so alone. I will definitely be looking out for more books from Ali Land. I would like to thank NetGalley and Penguin UK - Michael Joseph for my e-copy in exchange for an honest review.
It is described as:SET TO BE ONE OF THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY, CONTROVERSIAL AND EXPLOSIVE DEBUTS OF 2017 - for fans of quality psychological suspense and reading group fiction: once you read this book you'll want to talk about it.Well, I definitely want to talk about it, but perhaps not for the right reasons.
If so, I’d like to read the other version please.I’ve found this review difficult to write, and have been trying to avoid it, but I wouldn’t be true to myself as a reviewer, if I wasn’t honest about how I felt about this book.
Good Me, Bad Me is the debut novel by Ali Land which has found a following of admirers here on Goodreads.
The book was written clearly, the characters' personalities were well defined albeit stereotypical.
My concern with the book was multi-layered.
What type of humans are we that we read this crap and allow ourselves to become so hardened to travesty?
And if it's just a story, only fiction, then how do we explain the lack of compassion that is growing everyday as more people read this crap and watch this?
This book had none of it.
I liked the way you never met Annie/Millie's psychopathic mother properly in the story and only knew of her through Millie's recollections and feelings, leaving the reader with their own ideas of her personality and to what went on in the 'playground'.
I thought the events at the school with the bullying were very true to life and realistic and though most characters were very unlikeable they were excellently portrayed.The concept of the story told through Millie and the idea of her mother's murderous tendencies coming though in Millie was excellent and from start to finish I loved this book and never wanted to put it down.

This book gets a big “holy crap!” The story’s told from the POV of Milly, the abused fifteen year old daughter of a serial killer mom.
Milly’s an incredibly compelling character, and draws immediate sympathy; and yet every now and then, she lets a thought slip, and you know it’s only a matter of time before she snaps.
And most of the time, you’re hoping she will.
The story is basically about Milly trying to figure out whether she is like her mom.
-First-person narrative.-Unreliable narrator.-Writing style.-Slightly invested in outcome.-No gory details of mom’s handiwork.Complaint Board-No big heebie-jeebies.-Not enough action related to Milly’s story.
-Not enough suspense.-Unlikeable characters.-Over-the-top mean-girl behavior, and too much of it.-Tired of YA.-Sagged in the middle.-The big-deal trial was anti-climactic.-Predictable: Both the thoughts in Milly’s head and how the plot resolves.The writing style is staccato and crisp.
Don’t ask me how a daughter of a serial killer can be boring, but Milly is.
Check out the other reviews; most people felt the heebie-jeebies and loved the book.
Good Me, Bad Me is one those strange books where the beginning and end are kinda meh, but the middle is fantastic.
Afterwards she’s given a new identity--Milly--and is sent to live with her London psychologist, Mike Newmont, and his family.
As their war reaches a fever pitch, Milly will discover whether she can escape her mother’s nature--adhere to her own goodness--or if blood does inevitably out.
Unfortunately Good Me, Bad Me’s ending doesn’t live up to its premise.
Verdict: Good Me, Bad Me is poorly bookended, but the remainder of the story is well done.
Every time I think i'm done with psychological thrillers, I pick another one that pushes the boundaries and isn't afraid to take you to some properly dark places.I liked this girl, Milly, from start to finish.
My only 'want' now that i'm done is to see and hear more.
It read so real that it almost feet like a true crime biography and I came out of it wanting to do some research...into something not real at all.Ali Land has got my attention, that's for sure.Many thanks to Ali Land, Penguin/Michael Joseph, and Netgalley for the opportunity to read this review copy.
Η μήπως όχι; Η Άννι- Μίλι είναι δέσμια του παρελθόντος της, δέσμια μίας διεστραμμένης αγάπης, δέσμια των σχιζοφρενικών διδαχών μιας παρανοϊκής μητέρας που έκανε τα ΠΑΝΤΑ για να αφήσει τα σημάδια της στο κορμί, στο μυαλό και στη ψυχή της Άννι.
Πρέπει να συνεχίσει να παίζει το παιχνίδι που εκείνη της έχει διδάξει τόσο καλά…Το βιβλίο είναι 384 σελίδες της εσωτερικής πάλης της Άννι- Μίλι, του καλού και του κακού εαυτού μίας τσακισμένης ηρωίδας.
“More disturbing than hurt is love when it’s wrong.”You start a book.
You want to stop reading but you can’t.
You have to know more, even though there is a bad taste in your mouth; even though you are scared to go on, even though you pause at intervals, close your eyes and try to erase the troubling images.
You try not to place yourself in the shoes of the victims.
"Sometimes people aren’t what they say they are."I'm afraid this book has found a cozy place in my head and is going to stay there for a very long time.
This thriller gives readers a new angle to explore in psychological thriller and it’s every bit as good as reading from the killer’s perspectives.
The thrill in this book gives me the chills!This book is told in the first person point of view following Milly (aka Annie) 15 years old high school student and daughter of the notorious child serial killer.
When her mom commits her heinous crimes, Annie is forced to watch through the peephole.
Phoebe is her foster sister and one of the mean girls at the school who torment Milly.
She excels in school which makes Phoebe looks bad in a smart way in dealing with mean girls.
