https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131830.Women_s_Bodies_Women_s_Wisdom
Dr. Northrop couples traditional "Western medicine" and by-the-book discussions of female anatomy and biologial functions with a holistic, soulful approach to understanding why our bodies work the way they do, the way society and emotional footprints influence women's perceptions of themselves and, subsequently, the way our bodies react to their woman-ness.
Perhaps it is not unique to Dr. Northrup, but, again, I found it a troubling inclusion in a medical book.Moreover, she says that the damage done by carrying an unwanted pregnancy to term is perhaps so great that abortion is the more compassionate choice as the child would otherwise likely live out his/her life in misery.

I enthusiastically believe every girl and woman need this information, although I do believe we are already experiencing a shift in our society.
I look forward to sharing these new traditions and rituals with my daughter.Let me conclude with a little Tupac:"...And since we all came from a womanGot our name from a woman and our game from a womanI wonder why we take from our womenWhy we rape our women, do we hate our women?I think it's time to kill for our womenTime to heal our women, be real to our womenAnd if we don't we'll have a race of babiesThat will hate the ladies, that make the babiesAnd since a man can't make oneHe has no right to tell a woman when and where to create oneSo will the real men get upI know you're fed up ladies, but you gotta keep your head up"
Every woman should read this book and every man should buy the women in his life this book. Empowering women worldwide with knowledge about their own bodies in the most practical of terms, this book covers a broad range of women's health issues with the balanced yet practical wisdom of mind-body wellness. I recommend this book to all my friends and it has been a permanent addition to my favorite books collection. This book was a foundational book for me and gave me greater understanding into both my body and mind. Christine is a wonderful teacher, mentor and true healer.
Every women should read this book, period.
It's jam packed with info not just on health, but on understanding, respecting and honouring the amazing knowledge and strength women have when they connect with what their bodies are telling them.
For me the most powerful underlying idea that many of the systems of our culture are defaulted to a linear/masculine way of thinking, which leaves women feeling like they don't fit.
If we can acknowledge this and disengage from trying to fit, it's possible to discover a whole other way of being, one that fits just fine.And, I learned amazing things about the female body.
pamy and julie...i finally read it! joe's mom actually had it on her bookshelf so i read it over the four days that we were in illinois. you were right: i loved it. i want to get a copy for myself and read it with a highlighter, because there were so many comforting parts (especially the parts about birth and nursing) that really spoke to some of the feelings i've had since the baby was born. what a great book...
What more can I say? This book is life changing!! If you are a woman of any age, pick up this book and read it NOW. You will thank me later. :-)
The good parts is that the author really stresses the importance of getting to know your body and how so many people are quick to turn to medicine and things that manipulate your body before even understanding how their body works.
Also I liked that the chapters are split by body type/need so it makes for easy reference when your need a certain thing clarified but don't want to go through the whole book again.However the bad parts is that this author has a tendency to override or blame the patricharal society for all of our modern day issues and really stresses returning to the Goddess of old mindset which is not for me.
As a hypochondriac, I think I needed to read this book about women's health issues in order to learn the power of listening to ourselves and our cells without losing myself in worries over the various maladies described (I could learn about self-healing without having to palpate myself for signs of a telltale fibroid).
With a little tweaking, this book could have been called "People's Bodies, People's Wisdom," but I completely understand why it was woman-centric instead.
I bring up that point if only because despite being a man I was able to glean a tremendous amount of information about myself from this book.
Wonderful, demystifying, normalizing book about what many women did not have the opportunity or place to learn or know (and what many doctors--and research that was done only on men, to avoid the effects of 'hormonal fluctuations' on the result--could not tell us women about our own bodies).
Christiane Northrup points a light onto the many things that make it so, and how to make living in a female body more fluid, more gracious, more fun, and more fully understood.
If you are a woman, you gotta read it.
If you are a man, you REALLY have to read it.
I think it would be a great book for teaching young girls about their body.
The topics covered in the book are: women's anatomy (uterus, ovaries, breasts, vagina), menstrual cycle, pregnancy & birth, fertility, motherhood, menopause, healthy eating, exercising, medical care, flourishing and healing.The book is over 900 pages so it's not really meant for a complete "read through" like I did.
I think one might read parts as they need it or want to learn more.
It's very comprehensive and has lots of recommendations for further reading in specific topics.
I'm a healthy person but I find it comforting to have answers to questions I may encounter right at my fingertips.
Originally, I was recommended this book when I was experiencing multiple frequent ovarian cysts rupturing (incredibly painful), and the doctors I was going to had very little advice or answers for me.
This book explained more about what was happening in my body than the doctors could.
Since then, I have used this book for countless little and big questions I've had including pregnancy.
I would recommend this book to any woman or man that wants to be informed about women's' bodies and health.
This is an amazing book. A friend recommended this book to me when I mentioned that I was having issues with my health. I expected this book to have a lot of information about that, but really didn't expect to find such a weath of information on women's wellness -- from stress to diet and exercise, to attitudes... I learned that there is so much more to health than simply dealing with illnesses. Illnesses are nothing more than our body's way of telling us to re-evaluate our attitudes and habits, and to find balance in our everyday lives.
I have dismissed Dr. Northrup for years because of her MD title. I falsely assumed that an MD would not speak truth. Well, just like all prejudices, I discovered I was wrong! :) This lady is fabulously insightful and knowledgeable. She has meshed her MD knowledge with Eastern medicine into a truly beneficial wealth of knowledge about women and their bodies. I am looking forward to reading more of her material!
This is one I will be reading through for ages to come. I skip around and read what applies to me at that time in my life. Not for everyone, as the author gives a more holistic approach when healing the mind, body, and soul.
A must read for every woman!
Exceptional book, taking medical, holistic, cultural, and spiritual studies to connect women's health issues to their lifestyles, giving insights on how to cleanse the associated health problems and behaviors from our beings.
This is a book about and for women; it wouldn't serve her purpose to include insights on how the role of men has changed over past generations and how they are also having to re-examine their roles and identities, and how working together we might find the perfect balance in our relationships.It seems that in most of her personal stories, the women she helps end up changing their health habits--and their husbands.
On the other hand, it crosses the line in its hostility to the entire idea of a patriarchal society.
That aside, the examination of our addictive culture really made a lot of sense as Northrup opened up rotted old ideas and shed plenty of light on the ways women suffer in their lives, their own behaviors, and their bodies.
Maybe that's just the way i remember it, I'm not re-reading the entire thing.
This book is very interesting, the author is a gynecologist but talks about a lot of things I would assume traditional Western gynecologists don't speak to their patients about, such as how our menstrual cycles alone with the lunar cycle and a great deal of Eastern medical ideas.
My therapist recommended it mainly because I have gynecological issues and the books talks a lot about accepting our cycles as a normal part of our female lives.
It also contains a great deal of useful information on everything from the various parts of your cycle, gynecological problems, PMS, hormone imbalances and everything else in between.
The "This is You" book for women. This book is rich with information, and with ideas that don't see the light of day in traditional medicine. Not sure if I buy all of it, but it is certainly thought-provoking!
I love this book. This is the best book about women's Heath I read.
Great book as a male reading this I found myself constantly going "Hmm never thought of it like that" and "Oh that makes perfect sense.". It's simply a must read for any females out there, but men don't be afraid to give it a read and gain an extra advantage on the females! On a serious note it will help you in your relationships with women by giving you a whole new level of understanding. And they'll appreciate that. Trust me I know sweat women can be.
Dr. Northrup writes that our illnesses and symptoms "are designed to stop us in our tracks, make us rest, and bring our attention back to the things that are really important and that give our lives meaning and joy - aspects of life that we often put on the back burner until "someday." This book encourages readers to take control of their lives - including their health, their relationships, and their finances.
After about six months of reading this on and off I've completed this tome on women's health! Tons of valuable information for women to better understand their bodies, the mind-body connection, and their intuitive nature and all written in a very easy-to-read format. Highly recommend, even if you only were to read specific chapters which draw your interest.
I own the newly revised and updated version of this book. Nonetheless, it truly is an amazing and empowering book on women's overall well-being for all ages. I wish I was given this as a pre-teen to read!
I did not read this book in order I skipped back and forth between chapters. There were some chapters that were uncomfortable for me to read and some chapters that I disagreed with. Overall, still an excellent read for women.
Finally finished this huge book!Lots of useful info. Too bad for the regular references to "God", which reduce the credibility of the writer.
not actually helpful. seems to make the claim that your bodily functions are all in your head. outdated and potentially harmful
Holistic primer on women's health. Gives women the knowledge and confidence to trust their intuition and guide their bodies to heal.
I read this entire, 600-page book, and will read it again and again. Every woman should read this. Incredibly empowering.
