https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15575.The_Sword_of_Shannara
Man did that ever SUCK. And not your garden-variety, ham-fisted hackiness kind of suck. No, this was dumbfounded, frustrated bitterness swelling into white heat for which the only salve is the venting of my smoking, bile-filled vitriol in the form of this juvenile tantrum scathing rebuke of Brooks’ abominable, turd-like abortion of appalling plot-stealing gall.…Therefore listen to Baby Rage above and take cover…*inhales deeply and launches*…... PLOT SUMMARY:A shitty, lifeless point for point ri
This novel, and I use the term loosely and with much reservation, is a 767 page Memorex recording of Tolkien’s Lord of the Rings, except:** instead of a ring the quest item is a sword; ** instead of Gandalf, Sauron, Aragorn, Boromir, Legolas, Gimli, Nazgul and Gollum, you get the Allanon, The Warlock Lord, Menion, Balinor, Durin, Hendel, Skull Bearers, Orl Fane; and ** instead of lush, poetic prose, rich with allusions to a detailed, magnificent history and a wider world that draws you in and makes you long to look under every stone and behind every tree for some new thread of Tolkien’s magical tapestry…..you get a clunky, ill-formed world depicted by clumsy, tinny prose that fails utterly to imbue any sense of tension and emotion into the narrative….well other than outrage.Even the back stories of these Tolkien analogs and the central plot points are lifted almost verbatim from LOTR.
Starring Frodo Baggins, Samwise Gamgee, Gandalf the Grey, Sauron the Necromancer, Aragorn Arathornsson, Gimli van Gloin, and many more!SynapsisThe Ohmsford brothers Shea (BAGGINS) and Flick (GAMGEE) live a peaceful and simple life in the Vale (SHIRE), helping their father (HAMFAST GAMGEE) run the family inn, when one day a mysterious stranger arrives in the Vale.
Allanon tells him to meet him the dwarf city of Culhaven (RIVENDELL) as soon as possible and disappears.Hesitant to believe Allanon's tale at first, the brothers decide to wait and see if part of the stranger's story is true – that the servants of the Warlock Lord are looking for Shea.
I really wanted to like this, but that just wasn't the case. This book was just overly boring and it lacked plot. It felt like nothing was happening half the time. Overall disappointed with this book.
I live in a Third World country, so when I was young, we kids amuse ourselves by learning to climb trees, playing hide-and-seek and all sorts of outdoorsy games.Until I met Terry Brooks through The Sword of Shannara.A neighbor of ours was moving out, and with the bulk of books and other stuff they have, they decided to sell most of them.
Where others see a rip-off copycat work, I see one of the many variations in the seeds of literature that Tolkien sowed into the world of reading and writing.Terry Brooks' The Sword of Shannara will always hold a special place in my heart, as it awakened me to the world of fantasy, fiction, and magic.
His name is Shae and he is destined to wield his ancestor’s sword, the only weapon capable of destroying the mighty Warlock Lord, and bringing an end to the tension that is about to cause an all-out war.
They run into more danger, and later more allies, as the historian urges Shae ever closer to his all too important destiny.
It’s a simple stepping stone that Brooks has used to go on and explore his own world in greater depth in later books.
Moreover, I like his writing style and his own influence can be seen in later books of fantasy, and even some video games such as The Elder Scrolls franchise and World of Warcraft.
A friend who was also into fantasy insisted I read this series, and I got as far as the first three books before I stopped believing him when he told me they were magical and wonderful and would get better and better.
Mysterious Wizard shows up at home of person.
Tells person he is Chosen for an Important Quest.
And then the book ends, with our hero crabby but triumphant and returning home, and the Mysterious Wizard apparently dead or missing.
Only to turn up again at the beginning of the next book to browbeat the next whiny member of the Chosen Family to go on HIS Quest.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.The Sword of Shannara was a very popular book back in the 70s right after the huge success of The Lord of the Rings when everyone wanted to read more fantasy.
I read part of the first book and, knowing how popular it had been, and feeling like it was a classic, I was prepared to enjoy it.
This may have been acceptable if the writing had come straight out of Tolkien, too, but Brooks' style is clunky, wordy, and awkward.
. When I couldn't care less whether Shea and Flick (they're the hobbits-- I mean the heroes) live or die, then the characterization is weak.
It's basically The Fellowship of the Ring meets Wizard's First Rule (except REALLY BORING).A wise cloaked man named Gandalf Allanon shows up in a sleepy village looking for Shea, a boy who doesn't know his true name/origins.
I'm really trying to give it a chance!So I actually didn't have a problem with this book being a mess of fantasy cliches.
And I keep reading these types of books because I LIKE that general story, so it's not like "Lord of the Rings knockoff" is always a bad thing with me.
The fantastically vivid world building transported me there.
I love the way that this world is developed gradually but fully as we visit each area of it.
Brooks writes vividly real action sequences that you don’t just read, you feel.
Rather than being annoying as in so many other tales, they truly heightened this for me, giving me extra insight into the world and the characters, forming an extra bond.
I enjoyed getting to know the different races and this world in general through Shea’s eyes.
I fell in love with the entire cast of characters in this novel.
this is perhaps my first experience with a Bad Book.
young nerds like myself shouldn't have to scorn fantasy literature, but this wet piece of crapola put me off of fantasy for years.
something this derivative should never have seen the light of day.
i don't care if folks needed a tolkien fix, there were other, better literary drugs out there they could have turned to.
Brooks spends a very long time blowing tolkien style, but it is an extremely un-relaxing bj and i found myself getting agitated every other page.
those aren't sighs of relaxation, those are sighs of irritation and disgust.
Wow - that is pretty much all I could say for hours after finishing this absolutely epic first installment in the Shannara series.This book gave me everything I want in my fantasies - a vast landscape, colossal amounts of world-building, varied characters, mythical and mystical creatures, a definite good/bad binary, a quest to save the world, great character development, legions of backstory, action, adventure and intrigue, and ending on a battle scent to end all battle scenes.The best fantasies are always hefty tomes and this one was no exception!
This enabled the story to provide everything from the list above (and then some!), whilst still not overshadowing the epic plot and the journey across this fantastical landscape to conclude the adventures detailed.I did, however, have some minor gripes with this novel.
Everyone says that you fall into one of two camps: Those who love Tolkien, and philistines. I belong firmly in the latter. It is my firm belief that the man (Tolkien) got paid by the word. Having said that, I thoroughly enjoy Brooks' Shannara series. I have read all of them, own most of the hard covers, and have spirited debates (code for a fight) with my friends about why these books are not carbon rip-offs of Tolkien's works. Great characters, epic stories with fallible heroes, and a world lovingly crafted from the ruins of our own.
I am not going to go deep inside the plot as it was used numerous times after this book; it fact the book can be partially blamed for almost all of fantasy with a poor farm boy/girl destined to be the last humanity savior.
The rest of the blame goes to The Lord of the Rings.The general consensus about the book is that it is a carbon copy of Tolkien's writings.
While I agree that the overall structure of the book is closely resembles that of the father of modern fantasy, the characters and the plot were different enough to be interesting.
The Lord of Shannara? The Sword of the Rings?
I loved this when I was thirteen.
I loved it when I was sixteen.
It left a dent.
It's not entirely inconceivable that this thing would dent the drywall.Just saying.
)This book was written before fan-fic was quite so mainstream.
There were no fic websites out there then – there were no websites then.
There was still fan-fic, printed in little fanzines and passed around among friends and such.
And then there was this sort of thing, perpetrated on a public that had been introduced to wonder in the form of elves and wizards and quests, and who wanted more of it.
DNF @ 180 pages. Not horrible book, I could have put up with it until the end but I don't see why. During this book I had the same feel I had when reading Feist's Magician: Apprentice and that is feel of tasteless, generic fantasy that might be passable in video game but it's very dull in relatively long book.Very forgettable book.Edit:Because not long ago I decided that every book I DNF gets 1 star this book gets it rating decreased from 2 to 1 stars
When I was but an impressionable teen, my crush gave me this book for my birthday.
This book was so bad that it effectively cured me of that crush.
Despite being a plot-point-for-plot-point, character-for-character rip-off of the Lord of the Rings, it's pretty boring.
In fact, the only surprise in this novel is that despite such blatant plagiarism, none of the beauty of Tolkein's descriptions or rich history of his peoples translates over.
I don't know how Brooks managed to strip Tolkein's tales of everything wonderful and beautiful, but he did it somehow.
If you are comparing the literary value of science fiction/fantasy books, I think it is best to use food as an example.
While Tolkien on the other hand, or C.S. Lewis, are like well planned home cooked meals, with each food group represented and placed on a finely set dining table.
Just very different in execution and planning.
I do like Brook's vision of the fantasy races and world formed by the aftereffects of a devastating nuclear war sometime in the near future.
That is, until the mysterious druid Allanon appears and tells Shea that he is the last heir to the legacy of the mythic House of Shannara; once the rulers of the elven people and now long gone.When it is then revealed that the dreaded Warlock Lord has returned from supposed death to destroy the world, Shea must embark upon a journey to find the long-lost Sword of Shannara, for he is the only one left who can wield it to keep the darkness at bay.Based on my own opinion and all the reviews I have read, you either love or hate this book.
So, I've read reviews that say this is just Terry Brooks' Lord of the Rings.
I mean, aren't all fantasy adventures just someone's take on Lord of the Rings ...
anyway, other than the fact that it's 700-some pages and I thought I would never finish it ..
There were some lulling and overly-descriptive areas but mainly it was a page-turner, especially when just as one story-line was getting to a climax, he'd change to a different side of the story ..
I've read Eragon and can see where that author was heavily influenced by this book, at least it seems to me he was.
Terry Brooks is my friend's favorite fantasy author, and he gave me the entire set of Shannara books a while ago. Respecting his literary opinion, I read the first.WARNING: IT IS AN EXACT COPY OF THE PLOT OF THE LORD OF THE RINGS.And Brooks is no J.R.R. Tolkien. That aside, it is an okay read. The storytelling isn't bad, and the story becomes slightly more original as it goes along. I actually finished it, so it can't be terrible, but it gets two stars for its absolute lack of originality.
He went to law school, how could he not see the lawsuit in this?The Sword of Shannara parallels the Lord of the Rings series on so many points it's laughable.
About a third of the way in I began to feel deja vu, like I was rereading The Fellowship of the Ring.
There are best-bud insignificant protagonists, who are told to go on an adventure by a mysterious wizardy type guy.
During the mini-starter adventure they nearly get done in by undeadish dudes and meet a ranger, who is an aloof royal.
Imitation being the sincerest form of flattery, I feel like Brooks' heart was in the right place.
Η ιστορία είναι καλούτσικη, ο χειρισμός της όμως δείχνει αρκετή αφέλεια.
Οι χαρακτήρες θα μπορούσαν να είναι πολύ καλύτεροι.
Η αφήγηση, ενώ χρησιμοποιεί ωραία γλώσσα και όμορφες περιγραφές, μας περιγράφει δυο και τρεις φορές τα ίδια πράγματα, ξανά και ξανά, ενώ είναι γενικώς πολυυυυύ αργό.
Η πλοκή θυμίζει πολύ έντονα την τριλογιά «ο Άρχοντας των δαχτυλιδιών».
Στην αρχή του, το «Η συντροφιά του δαχτυλιδιού» και το τέλος του το «Οι δύο πύργοι» (σε καμιά περίπτωση όμως δεν το φτάνει, ούτε καν το πλησιάζει).
Δεν έμεινα ευχαριστημένη, παρ’ όλα αυτά θα προχωρήσω στην ανάγνωση του επόμενου βιβλίου της σειράς, καθώς έχω ακούσει γενικώς καλύτερα λόγια.
And by that, what I mean is that I wanted that feeling I had while reading LotR, being lost in a world all its own and being so close to characters I considered friends.
That's why I think I get the appeal for The Sword of Shannara and honestly after all the reviews I've read, I expected this book to be much more close to LotR than it is.
Completely different.Yes, the Sword of Shannara is the ring, but it's missing most of the book and doesn't ...
The second kind of person rates this book pretty highly, and almost always adds a weak "Well, there are a lot of things that are different, too...".
I am not taking off stars because of some kind of self-righteous anger, and at the same time I am not giving this book a pass by writing a review meekly explaining away its shady history.Looked at independently of its source material, I only have a few notes:Things I liked:It was rarely boring.
If Tolkien's publisher had just let him print the damn thing in one big volume we wouldn't have this problem, but what can you do?The world's background was interesting, if not a little under developed (in book 1, at least).
This book threw me head first into the fantasy genre.
And i don't mean sci-fi but the magic, elves and dragon genre.
It was in our house, no one will admit to who's book it was, but I was reading everything and anything in the house at that time and absolutely LOVED this book.
And I found it to be a nice break from the murder/suspense stories I had been reading.If you've never read fantasy and want to take a dip, or surprisingly enjoyed the magic and fantasy of harry potter, then start off with this book.My other weakness are books that have continuous stories.
You should read them in order.
Il signore degli anelli 2.0 Romanzo fantasy cult della mia infanzia contraddistinto da un campionario di personaggi clichettosi che si oppongo al solito - e noioso - antagonista tutto scuro, cattivissimo e con l'originale desiderio di dominare il mondo.Si parla di un'opera chiaramente godibile per un neofita, ma il retaggio tolkeniano, a tratti, coincide con un vero e proprio plagio che pregiudica tremendamente l'esperienza di lettura.
This Book  came out & I jumped on it.
I was a real fan of the Lord of the Rings - so much so that I recited the first several pages of the Hobbit when we read it in class during the 6th grade - & this looked similar.
I was ecstatic because I'd waited so long for another epic journey of that sort!
How could I be so lucky?
Star Wars & now a new Tolkien-like saga?!!!
The gods must be good!Then I read it & almost wept in frustration.
It was too similar to The Hobbit.
Wasn't it plagi
I was a real fan of the Lord of the Rings - so much so that I recited the first several pages of the Hobbit when we read it in class during the 6th grade - & this looked similar.
Star Wars & now a new Tolkien-like saga?!!!
How could he publish something like 
. Then I read Magic Kingdom For Sale/Sold & liked it.
It was like a nightmare.
I also found that the series had grown to a huge number of books - another betrayal.
This Book
This Book
This Book
This Book
This Book
This Book
This Book
This Book
This Book
This Book
When I was in 8th grade I stayed home sick from school one day. My sister-in-law lent me this book, and I read the whole thing in one day. What a read! It remains to this day a standard for what a good fantasy should be like.
I felt the desire to go back and read a few old favorites from the books.This book came out something like 40 years ago, and at the time, the Fantasy Genre as we know it was relatively new.
At the time it was written, the storyline wasn't as cliche as it is today, but, the genre as a whole has done a lot of moving on from that point now.The book has a lot of nostalgia value for me, but in the forty years since it's publication, the Fantasy Genre has moved on to bigger and better things.
