https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121268.The_Hash_Knife_Outfit
It's good to read a good ol' Western once in awhile, just to clear one's palate.
Has all the "stuff" a Western should have; nasty rich guys, solid rancher, plucky Western girl, Eastern girl who eventually learns the Western ways, buncha tough hombres who rustle (but not on THAT big a scale), couple love stories (one very unlikely, but more appealing therefor), guns, horses, desolation (Arizona), and an easy read.
Gonna read some more Zane Grey sometime, but my next Western is one by Elmore Leonard(!) OK, off to the next Jack Reacher butt-kicker!
A romantic Western in which a lady from the East visits her brother in Arizona where she falls for a rustler. She is kidnapped and winds up in the middle of a range war.
The story grew on me as the words got easier to follow and I hated to leave when I turned the last page.The story takes place in mountains of Arizona and pits a band of cowboys led by a young, tenderfoot boss against the Hash Knife Outfit who make their living stealing cattle.
Zane Grey paints a pretty picture of the land, the men and women who settled it, and they danger (and excitement) of cowboy life.If you can find a copy I has a hunch you jest shore wal enjoy it!
This is the story of a feud between two cattle outfits, The Diamond and The Hash Knife. THe Hash Knife Outfit are outlaws and during the feud kidnap two women. Their rescue and the face off between the two outfits provide the excitement. There's plenty of gun fights, ambushes, and old west adventure. The characters are interesting and different.
A shore 'nuff good taleJed Stone's true character never left, it just got buried in the reality of decisions made and a life unfolding.....until a push came from a fearless Easterner and the outfit was faced with going over the edge without a chance of redemption or making a clean break of their lawless nature.
So far the least exciting and rivoting Zane Grey book. Too many characters and too much dialogue. I already miss the discriptive Grey. But some of the ideas in this book do give you the idea that some contemporary authors have stole his ideas. Cheaters!
The sequel to The Drift Fence, featuring the continuing story of Jim Traft and Molly Dunn and introducing Jim's sister Glorianna, who finds more than she bargained for in the West. Grey's best "good" villain appears in the form of Jed Stone.
Awesome! I bought some old cowboy books to sell on ebay, and this one sucked me in! A real page turner! I can't wait to read more!
I can't remember..... I guess I'll have to read it again some day.
A good description of Arizona but I could not get the hang of the dialogue, which I found tedious.
The Hash Knife gang are a pretty standard Western group of outlaws that slowly get whittled away until there is only one left. Pretty good Zane Grey book.
Much better than I expected a "vintage" book to be. I can see why Zane Grey was so popular back in the 30's.
An East coast gal inherits her father's cattle empire as well as the rustlers that go with it.
Readable, but the next step up from pulp westerns.
interesting as always with his books
This is a continuation of "The Drift Fence" so if you loved the characters, you'll find out what happens to them. This is the first Zane Grey book I ever read, and it's still my favorite!
