https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216185.The_Beast_That_Shouted_Love_at_the_Heart_of_the_World
The Beast That Shouted Love at the Heart of the World is a collection of short stories by Harlan Ellison.
I mostly picked it up to read A Boy and His Dog, to experience the post-apocalyptic story as it was originally intended and to see if this version was as rapey as the movie starring Don Johnson.
Ellison sure knows how to do endings, even if I thought this story wasn't that great.Santa Claus vs.
Each head watched, waiting, hungry, insane.”Who is The Beast That Shouted Love at the Heart of the World?He is the omniscient and omnipresent mad demiurge who sees everything and understands nothing – senile and demented creator of universe.The anthology is shattering but A Boy and His Dog is the biggest diamond in this royal crown of stories.
‘You’re funny when you get horny,’ he said.”A boy and his dog constitute a symbiotic tandem – they can’t manage without each other.“Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour.” Ecclesiastes 4:9
A depressingly large amount of old science fiction exhibits something of a misogynistic attitude, but rarely is it as skin-crawlingly blatant as it is here.
This is one of the few books I had to buy multiple copies of because I read it and loaned it so many times it fell apart.
Ellison was My Guy, and this was one his best collections.
It contains some classic works, like the title story and A Boy and His Dog, and some older works from the 1950's that are the best representatives of the decade, and some works that defy easy pigeon-holing, such as Santa Claus Vs. S.P.I.D.E.R., a political examination that's just as telling now as it was when it originally appeared, forcing the reader to remember that the names may change but the song remains the same.
Does it?My ThoughtsThis was a somewhat strong collection.
The title story sets the pace with some very strange, almost impenetrable imagery and Ellison spinning some of his best poetry among prose.
“Shattered Like a Glass Goblin” has a good bit of that, too, so if you love the title story (it’s so much easier to say that than to type it over and over, much as it’s a unique title that I love), you’ll love that one, too.Among my favorites here are “Along the Scenic Route”, which I’ve seen a lot of people mention.
Good stories to bad.
This collection by Harlan Ellison, the bad boy of science fiction, is a bit uneven at times.
Still, Ellison at his best -- even if his spark plug fires only a fourth of the time -- is awesome.
In particular, I loved "A Boy and His Dog," which had been made into a movie.
Other stories I liked are the title story, "Along the Scenic Route," and "Santa Claus vs.
S.P.I.D.E.R."The Beast That Shouted Love at the Heart of the World held me entranced during a recent vacation in Peru.
I expect I'll be reading some more of his work soon.
The Hugo short story award winning title piece, The Beast That Shouted Love at the Heart of the World, is strange, even for Ellison. And that's saying a lot. I'm sure there's more than one way to interpret it, but essentially it seems to be about the casting out of evil from heaven to the world of men, told as a visceral, dark story involving humans, aliens, and alternate universes. Not my all time favorite Ellison story, but really quite good.
This collection is extremely good, Ellison is an epic writer, no doubt. True Science Fiction creative imagination and presentation. Unexpected, thought-provoking stories. Highly recommended. You can't beat Ellison. No aliens appearing to save the day. Sometimes the day isn't saved. One of my favorite Ellison works. Should be read more
Harlan. Ellison. Is. A. Genius. DONE. (or maybe not)May have full review later.I am giving this one a a 4 out of 5 stars.
My appreciation of Ellison is time specific, in that I read them in the early Seventies, while the country was still spinning from recent events, some of them chemical.
I think I can understand why Ellison characterized his stuff as "speculative fiction," rather than science fiction.
At the same time, he and his stories came out of American science fiction and show the conventions and devices of science fiction in every paragraph.
I've read that Ellison can be difficult.
I don't think I've met any of the writers that I've read during that period.
The rest I didn't like much.
Ellison is certainly good at prose and has fertile imagination; it's just that his imageries tend to be a bit too disorganized to my liking.
When it comes to psychedelic imageries in particular, I think he needs to purge some of the rampant clichés.
Compare his "Shattered Like A Glass Goblin" to, say, Naked Lunch, and you will see the difference between an amateur and a pro.
Unless you've had extensive experiences with drugs yourself it is very difficult to avoid clichés when writing about them.
Good speculative fiction. Ellison certainly has a good imagination. There are some weaker stories but most are quite strong. A Boy and His Dog ends the collection, and is very good. "White on White" is one of the weaker ones, but "Run for the Stars" and "Worlds to Kill" are excellent. "Are You Listening" seems like a very clear riff of "Country of the Kind" by Damon Knight. Santa Claus vs. S.P.I.D.E.R. his just completely insane but highly entertaining.
Which normally I wouldn't have a problem with except I've been sold on the idea that Ellison is a master storyteller, which was not really my impression when I finished.He does have a sense of humor, which comes to shine in my favorite story 'Santa Claus vs.
Many of the later-published pieces, like the titular story, feel more like he's experimenting with storytelling form and different ideas without really succeeding, while his earlier work is more coherent and has solid structure.
The details and setting, when they come about, feel lacking, like he had a really cool idea about the world ABAHD was set in, but didn't really know how to explain it.
I had this one on my shelve for years.
For an emergency case, like the death of the writer.
I love Ellison.
What a spirited guy.
Mean but in a good way.
Brilliant, and he knew he was.
I mean spending 30 years on some stupid lawsuit against Fantagraphics?
One of my favourite quotes of all time is by him: "Not only am I right and you are wrong, but the people who we both think are wrong are not as wrong as you are."How I wanted to like this book.
Well, I call this sick.
Intriguing but sick.
Boo.I really didn't get this and I think that everyone who voted for 1969's Hugo Award didn't get it either.
How does releasing "the maniac", save humanity?
The whole story was vague and, yes, experimental.
That doesn't make it good.I sort of got that evil needed to be loose in the world for good to occur, (maybe) but it also seemed like Semph was possessed by evil and released it thinking that he was doing a good thing.To me, this is a shitty story because I have really no idea what actually happened.Boo.I have had members of my reading group explain some things about the story to me, but knowing what they know would only raise my rating one star, and if it needs explaining then it needs re-writing.
Disappointing. These seem to be another selection of Harlan Ellison stories that do not seem to have held up to time. Many of this collection seem dated, misogynistic or just plain mean-spirited. I’ve read some of these stories before (when I was in high school) and remember liking them better then.
I was about thirteen when I found this book at the West Covina Public Library, read it, it blew my mind, opened up whole universes of what science fiction and writing could do. Kicked my ass onto the road to what I am today. Thanks, Harlan.
Science Fiction, and it includes one of his best known stories, “A Boy and His Dog.” I always meant to see that movie but never did. This collection is extremely good, I’m a fan of Harlan Ellison, no doubt. Nice one.
The stories and ideas have dated a bit, unfortunately, and often they are more like suggestive and based on a shock-effect, but Harlan remains one of the magic story-tellers of the past century (and a bit).

God, the writing is so good! Two pages into each short story, I’m in an entirely new world and hopelessly gripped by the narrative. How did he do that? Call it horror, science fiction, speculative fiction or a mash up of all three.....call it whatever you want but just read it!
Favourite story: Are You Listening
Not really my style, all his characters have too much anger and not very many redeeming qualities.
All of Harlan Ellison's collections are worth reading but each may have a story or two that will leave you cold.
This book is worth reading for "A Boy and His Dog" alone. However, some of the other stories, especially "Run for the Stars" and "Are You Listening," are unpublishably bad.
Completed:The Beast That Shouted Love at the Heart of the WorldAlong the Scenic RoutePhoenix: Exists mainly for the twistSanta Claus vs SPIDER: ridiculous crazy stuffA Boy & His Dog: Classic post-apoc, probably inspired loads of stuff
Harlan Ellison was the guy I used to read while I was waiting for the next Stephen King book to come out, and I have read this collection at least one other time (in Edgeworks 4, the last of a broken-promised collection of ALL Ellison works in neatly bound volumes).
Many of his best stories I have read 15 times in various collections, but there is some of his work that I have never been able to find a copy of.
Rereading this book was, in a way, nostalgic for me because the other times I have read it, I was at a different place in my own life, so the stories meant different things to me.
Not his best, but hey, it's Harlan Ellison.
Den tredje samlingen jag läst av Harlan Ellison och min åsikt har inte ändrats.
Mannen må vara ett ärkepucko om ens en tiondel av allting jag hört är sant, men han har onekligen en stor talang för att skriva.
Som alltid när det kommer till novellsamlingar så är det hyfsat ojämnt, om än att Ellison har en ganska hög lägsta-nivå här.
Ellison har en osviklig talang för att skissa upp karaktärer som kanske inte är avgrunds-djupa men ändå över medelvärdet för noveller och korthistorier.
"The Beast that Shouted Love at the Heart of the World" är ett rent experiment från Harlans sida men det fungerar perfekt.
"A boy and his dog" has got to be the story Ellison makes the most excuses about.
It's what got me into his writing to begin with...
I would contrast it with McCarthy's "The Road" - both are masterpieces set in a "left behind" post-apocalyptic wasteland, but the protagonists couldn't be more different.
is their fiction in a similar setting with a female protagonist?
A friend recommended "the book of the unnamed midwife" by someone named Meg Elison (one L ) in that context; this person suggested it as I was going on about how incredible "the road" was.
