https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71301.Obelix_and_Co_
Another one of my favourites.
Financial whiz kid Caius Preposterus has the bright idea of subverting the Gauls through money.
His plan is simple - buy up as many menhirs as the Gauls can make at exorbitant prices, so that they will not have the time or the inclination to bash Romans, and the rich lifestyle will make them decadent.
Especially the panel where Caius Preposterus explains to Ceasar the method of marketing menhirs using a flip chart.
One of the few missing from my dad's collection when I was a kid, I only had a few pages to go on.Here is one of the few instances where there's actually a decent plan to take down the Gauls...this time, revolving around commerce, and the menhir.A Roman economist tells JC (Julius Caesar) that they could keep the Gauls distracted from fighting by making them ruled by coin...ergo, the menhir trade takes off, Obelix becomes wealthy, everyone works for him or makes their own menhirs, which Asterix

Obelix and Co. (Astérix #23), René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
পাঁচ-তারা ছাড়া আর কোনো রেটিং কি গসিনী-উদেরজোর সমমিলিত কোনো আসতেরিকসকে দেয়া যায়?ময়লা একটা সংসকরণ কিনলাম, আজকেই, বাড়াবাড়ি রকমের সবলপমূলযে। এটা হচছে আসতেরিকসের সেইসব বইয়ের একটা, যেখানে অবেলিকস তার যোগয সমমানটুকু পাইছে। এমন কী এই বইয়ের নামেও। গসিনী সাহেবের আর কোনো বইয়ের নামে কি অবেলিকস ছিলো? মনে পড়ে না।বাড়তি পাওনা ছিলো পরাচীন রোমের বিলবোরডের ছবিগুলি। এই না হলে বিজঞাপন!পারলে নতুন কিনুন, না পারলে পুরনো। আসতেরিকস পড়ুন, গলদের ভালো বাসুন। এই ভালোবাসায় যেনো গলদ না থাকে, কারণ এই বইগুলির রসবোধে কোনো ফাঁকিবা
পাঁচ-তারা ছাড়া আর কোনো রেটিং কি গসিনী-উদেরজোর সম্মিলিত কোনো আস্তেরিক্সকে দেয়া যায়?ময়লা একটা সংস্করণ কিনলাম, আজকেই, বাড়াবাড়ি রকমের স্বল্পমূল্যে। এটা হচ্ছে আস্তেরিক্সের সেইসব বইয়ের একটা, যেখানে অবেলিক্স তার যোগ্য সম্মানটুকু পাইছে। এমন কী এই বইয়ের নামেও। গসিনী সাহেবের আর কোনো বইয়ের নামে কি অবেলিক্স ছিলো? মনে পড়ে না।বাড়তি পাওনা ছিলো প্রাচীন রোমের বিলবোর্ডের ছবিগুলি। এই না হলে বিজ্ঞাপন!পারলে নতুন কিনুন, না পারলে পুরনো। আস্তেরিক্স পড়ুন, গলদের ভালো বাসুন। এই ভালোবাসায় যেনো গলদ না থাকে, কারণ এই বইগুলির রসবোধে কোনো ফাঁকিবাজি নাই, এক্কেরে গিল্টি করা।
I don't understand how I forgot to review this one here.So far my absolute favorite! The genius of Goscinny is that he makes us believe that this stuff almost writes itself. The humor is so effortless and at the same time so earned by the characters and settings.I'm really loving this.
Delighted, Obelix makes mincemeat of them all and the Romans return to Totorum to wait for their relief.To Caesar the Gauls are an impossible task until a young man by the man of Preposterus, from the Latin School of Economics, suggests that they can beat the Gauls with commerce.
Inevitably it all needs to come to a head as saturation point is reached.So why is this possibly the greatest Asterix book ever?
It’s told in such a clever way that I got it as an eight-year-old, but what really makes it are the brilliant character studies and repeating beats of the humour that drive on the farce throughout the book.
Answer: Marxism.Well, this may be gowing a bit too far, but as Wiki notes:"-The book is a parody of capitalism as, while Obelix could hunt boar before, he begins to overwork for the purpose of buying them (and ridiculous clothing).
"The Wiki summary:"After Obelix single-handedly defeats the newly-arrived Romans from the camp of Totorum as a birthday present, Caesar once again ponders with any possibility to take down the rebellious Gaulish village.
For that purpose he moves into the camp of Totorum and proceeds to make the acquaintance of Obelix, who is carrying a menhir through the forest.
-In this story, camp life for the Roman legionaries is shown as very undisciplined.
The Romans decide to use Obelix’s notoriously useless menhir business against him: a Roman agent arrives at the Roman camp and persuades Obelix to sell him menhirs at high prices, in hopes that the new flow of wealth and prestige will create competition and jealousy that will eventually corrupt and undermine the village. The resulting boom in the previously non-existent menhir trade creates a wide array of amusing problems for both the Gauls and the Romans.A hilarious tale with a clear lesson about the pitfalls of greed and corruption, and the redeeming quality of friendship.
Questa volta Cesare decide di affidarsi ad un esperto di economia di nome Assurdus per battere i Galli. Obelix cade in pieno nella trappola vendendo i suoi menhir a prezzi sempre crescenti scoprendo il valore dell'oro. Per fortuna Asterix e Panoramix, saggiamente, vigileranno sul villaggio, obbligando Assurdus e Cesare a una mossa piuttosto azzardata.Albo bellissimo non solo per le battute e l'ironia, ma soprattutto per la satira sul consumismo e l'economia che pervade tutto l'album.Da non perdere i vestiti nuovi di Obelix e le pubblicità promozionali dei menhir.
Podľa mňa jeden z naj príbehov aj s morálnym ponaučením, ako dokážu biznis a peniaze pokriviť charakter. A nádherná satira na "ekonomický" jazyk.
very clever satire of capitalism within the world of Asterix and friends. Not sure what i saw in it as a child but i particularly remember this one one from my childhood.
The jokes a little different which help lessen the predictability. The best part was Obelixs hilarious business outfit with the golden ribbon around his belly.
Solo la lezione di marketing impartita da Caius Assurdus a Cesare (oggetto: le strategie di vendita dei menhir nel mercato romano) vale la lettura.
Obelix y compañía no solo fue uno de los puntos más altos de Goscinny en los guiones de Asterix, sino uno de los mejores ejemplos de comic franco-belga que dio el siglo XX.
Introduciendolos al mundo de la oferta y la demanda a través de los menhires.
De ahí, saltaran decenas de chistes y ocurrencias brillantes sobre varias de las puntas de la lanzas productos de la inserción del vil metal en el mundo de estos nobles bárbaros.
Obviamente, como siempre todo volverá al status quo, pero como siempre el encanto de Asterix no es su evolución, sino el viaje, que sigue siendo disfrutable.
Caius Preposterus, a Roman kid just out of the Latin School of Economics advise Julius Caesar to corrupt the little village of Gauls and distract them from fighting the Roman Army.
Caius ask for the delivery of menhir and pays a lot of money, and ask more menhirs each day and pays more money...Ovelix, is a business man now, has people working for him, has to change cloths and has to attend meet lunches to talk about business...
this issue is a comic parody of capitalism But a pleasant surprise, as Laurel and Hardy make an appearance as Roman legionaries!!!
In this one (which I read in German since we do not seem to own an English version) Ceasar and his new financial advisor hatch a plan to make the gauls soft with money. They start buying all the menhirs that come out of the village and mayhem ensues.
good
One of the best asterix comics!
Me encantan estas historietas <3
Nyt on yksi omista Asterix-suosikeista. Markkinatalous tulee Galliaan ja siitä saada irti koko sarjan tähän asti parasta huumoria.
Sympa comme toujours!
A brilliant book. Lot of politics, economics and fun.
Obelix finally gets his title book. Hooray.
Obélix et compagnie - René GoscinnyRating: ★★★Review coming soon!
um jovem, Caius Saugrenus, que estudou estratégia económica, é enviado à Gália e lança-se na compra de menires a Obélix, oferece-lhe sestércios, e como obélix tem que produzir deixa de ir caçar javalis, não se diverte, mas também não tem para as necessidades.
Mas o romano quer mais menires, por isso, tem de aumentar a produção e contrata pessoas, que para serem alimentadas têm de contratar mais caçadores de javalis.
a lei da oferta e da procura começa a funcionar e em breve, metade da aldeia, em concorrência faz menires para vender aos romanos, a outra metade caça javalis.
**Warning: this text may contain spoilers** Me ha gustado porque daban muchos menhires.
Berdasarkan saran dari Propesterus alumni Latin School of Economics, Julius Caesar memakai taktik ekonomi untuk mengalahkan orang-orang Galia pemberani ini.Menhirs yang sebenarnya tak ada nilainya dibeli oleh Propesterus dari desa Galia, dengan harga tinggi yang terus dinaikkan.
Hal ini menimbulkan kekacauan pada masyarakat Galia yang berubah orientasi ekonominya dari cara tradisi barter ke penggunaan mata uang.
Penduduk Roma terbujuk untuk membeli Menhir yang tidak jelas kegunaan & nilainya ini.
Supply barang dan demand 'semu' yang tidak berimbang mengakibatkan Roma mengalami krisis ekonomi, mata uang sestertii harus di devaluasi, begitulah kira-kira teori ekonomi yg saya dapat dari komik ini...hehehe....
This is a very funny book with discipline in the Roman camp becoming lax as they get used to a procession of flamboyant Gauls entering their garrison and the absurd clothes the Gauls wear when they become rich are hilarious.
This is one of the best in the Asterix series with its satirical look at marketing, capitalism and greed.
The Romans are determined to rid themselves of their Gaulish problem and employ Caius Preposterous to corrupt the Gauls by creating huge demand for the useless menhir.
Demand causes large numbers of Gauls to become menhir merchants and the competition leads to infighting and the breaking up of the village.
A new centurion arrives at a Roman camp.
He's Centurion Ignoramus.
Some guy from Rome thinks he can corrupt the Gauls and make them weaker.(The way the Roman speaks is basically making fun of Native Americans.)His idea was to get the people in the village to make menhirs and all become so interested in making money they wouldn't devote any time to fighting.
Things get out of hand not only in the village but in Rome itself.The whole story is a take on the greed and lack of concern for people that is evidenced by many big businesses.
I Romani escogitano un piano (un altro) per cercare di porre una fine alla resistenza del Villaggio Gallico. Ma non fanno i conti con le leggi del mercato, che Asterix, pur non conoscendo, riesce a piegare a suo vantaggio.
Obelix replicates the model of the boom/bust economy in the Menhir market. Could those cunning Romans be up to something? Yes. With gratuitous violence and flamboyant clothing.A bit similar to Mansion of the Gods.
AWESOME!!! There is nothing that comes close to Asterix - I have the whole series, both on e-books and hard-copy and they are some of most treasured possessions. I grew up with them and they are simply the best!
Fresh and witty. This is the first ever Asterix story I read. I am 23 so I would say I deprieved myself of the characters all this time. The story line is catchy and whitty. A good laugh.
23rd book of Asterix Obelix series. Funny story, but not LOL humors.
All Asterix books by Goscinny & Uderzo have been read aloud to me as a child and later reread by me. #childhoodmemories #childhoodfavourites #ohthefeels
A curious story that the Romans may actually win if they don't keep on raising the price endlessly. Regardless, it is an interesting book.
Waktu mengajar materi perubahan sosial, saya langsung terpikir untuk memanfaatkan cerita ini! Saya minta murid-murid saya menyusun urutan yang benar bagaimana warga desa Asterix yang tidak punya uang (karena tidak butuh) kemudian berlomba-lomba menjadi wirausaha bidang batu menhir :) Selain saya singgung tentang teori permintaan dan penawaran (ala Romawi yang ngawur di buku ini), mereka juga saya minta menganalisis asal mula kata-kata ini: "Kenapa kamu orang bicara seperti itu, toh?"Kocak abis, satiris, miris, dan masih sangat relevan dengan dunia global sekarang yang digenggam oleh kaum kapitalis.
Jajaja... excelente como hablan de los tiempos de hoy... "Nadie se atrevería a vender algo inútil"... =)
Seven out of ten. CBR format.Demand for menhirs suddenly goes through the roof and Obelix has little time for anything but business. What can Asterix do?
Clever economics focus in this one. Good to see something a bit more unique in the series.
So much fun to see more of Obelix in this great comic collection!
Um dos melhores livros de gestão e marketing. Este volume de banda desenhada tem a particularidade de mostrar como se desenrola a publicidade para fomentar o consumismo de algo supérfluo e os mecanismos de oferta/procura/concorrência. O mais interessante é que o principal motivo em torno desta propaganda é a geração de uma crise no cerne duma população "saudável e normal", com o despoletar de sentimentos de poder, inveja, vaidade e competição.English version in http://booksliteraryreviews.blogspot....
I suggest we have a working lunch. You savvy?
"si vis pacem, buy menhirs" - preposterous
Para mí, una de las mejores historias de Astérix.
A classic, for the title itself.
It was good. There isn't really laugh-out-loud humour so I won't say 4 stars. Over all, it's a satire on capitalism and I didn't get some jokes. some interesting twists:Asterix and Getafix introduce the competitive market. Impedimenta insists on being dropped off at the shops on her husband's official shield. Preposterous (Roman finacial adviser) is a caricature of someone...I'm not sure Menhirs are marketed in Rome as a luxury commodity.Competing Roman menhir hits the market including an Egyptian obelisk-shaped menhir.
Really funny and so true!
Pas mal, celui-là
