https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19802.A_World_Lit_Only_by_Fire
There seem to be plenty of world cultures that get along fine today using their hands as utensils...Basically, a civilization that doesn't strive for progress for the sake of progress is not worthy of existing.
Yet, most of Europe, while part of the Roman empire, never had the technology that Rome was known for.Most importantly, in his one sided attack, he gloriously praises people like Magellan for proving that the world was round (even though people had known this for centuries) while completely glossing over the nameless people of the middle ages who also strove for progress.
Instead of spending a few years researching and getting a feel for the era, the complexities and viewpoints and the historically fuzzy spots, he just sat down, picked up some (often outdated) secondary sources and wrote a book as he was reading them.
And the idea of writing a history book that spans about 1200 years without picking up a primary source is, honestly, kind of reprehensible to me.
To write a general history book on an era that spanned a millennium and then to harshly condemn that era without reading a primary source written by the people who lived through it is genuinely irresponsible.
Magellan in ContextManchester starts off writing a biography of Magellan, but in his attempt to put a context to his life, motivations and adventures, ends up expanding his scope until some six centuries of the medieval period are swallowed up by the story.
Manchester then repackages the book as a book about the Renaissance and lets it fade into the Magellan biography.It was interesting to see this process at work.
Take for example the Steve Jobs biography industry.
Still, it was exciting to think of the possibilities of such a history-biography.
Imagine having this book and not reading it!), and spend the buck or so to bring it home *for the last time* as I will keep *this* one forever.Uh-huh.
He'll like this one, I bet!It's a leap of imagination that I feel 21st-century people have small success at making, but the time when the world was lit only by fire didn't end until late in the 19th century.
We really see what he's talking about through their eyes, if we possess even a hint of imagination.I love this book, and I think everyone in the least bit interested in history should read it because it's beautifully written and conceived.
http://www.straightdope.com/mailbag/m...In a portrait of an Italian clergyman, Girolamo Savonarola, who defied a decadent Pope (and was excommunicated and burned for his trouble), Manchester describes a man of the people, beloved by the common folk.
He then describes how these followers turn against the priest (out of fear from the all-powerful pope) when the pope brought the hammer down.
A little digging reveals that the priest was not as popular as Manchester asserts -- taking from them the equivalent of TV, movies, and video games.I found I didn't want to read any more of the book, since I could no longer trust the veracity of the author.
If you are looking for a well researched and reasoned history of the Dark Ages and the Renaissance do not read this book.
If you are looking for a starting point for the Intellectual History of Europe during the Dark Ages and Renaissance; this book might be a good way to go.The historical accuracy of this book is to be strongly questioned and doubted.
One must start somewhere when learning about Intellectual History, and this book, precisely because of it's extremism, gives the reader ideas to challenge or agree with.Also, I found his views to be entertaining.
Full disclosure: I put it down in disgust after page 102 and did not pick it up again.Still, the book did contain the following favorite howlers, which made it so bad that at times it was almost good:• Medieval people had no sense of time: "Generations succeeded one another in a meaningless timeless blur." (I wonder how they figured out when to plant their crops or how to show up for church on the right day of the week?)• In summertime, peasants went about naked.
Perhaps the author is thinking about cherubim and seraphim.)• Prostitutes were the cleanest people in Europe during the Middle Ages, because they had to expose their entire bodies.
Little primary research and a whole lot of assumptions and judgments about medieval thought made this book repellent. I wondered if it was written fast to gain the popular reader who wants sensational history with a large dose of "We're so much smarter, we moderns."
Didn't finish this.
Manchester sees the middle ages as a dark age of ignorance and stagnation the antithesis of the Renaissince.
Its a pretty out of date attitude as the current belief is that people invneted and disvoered lots of stuff during the middle ages and that it was the plant that supported the flowering of the Renaissance.
Also he's a believer in the Great man view of history also pretty old hat since behind every great man are the toilers who made all his discoveries possible and the events which allowed him to express his greatness.
A WORLD LIT ONLY BY FIRE: The Medieval Mind and the Renaissance. Portrait of an Age. (1993). William Manchester. *****. I’ve been a big fan of Manchester’s books over the years, but I don’t know how I missed this one. It is a popular telling of the history of Europe primarily during the time of the Renaissance, but starts us out at the first sack of Rome in 410 A.D. to the second sack of Rome in 1527 – the end of the Renaissance. This is not a history of Renaissance art, which you might expect,
This is not a history of Renaissance art, which you might expect, but of the Renaissance mind or thinking process that resulted from the times preceding it, Aside from those members of the church and some of the ruling class, there was not much thinking going on.
When you consider the lack of communication between towns and the use of Latin by the educated classes, which the common people didn’t understand, and the scarcity of printed matter, it all becomes relatively clear why they were not aware of what was going on in the wider world.
I made the mistake of reading the preface where Mr. Manchester explained that he wrote this book as a break from writing the final volume to my favorite Winston Churchill biography.
He died before he could finish the final volume so his brilliant biography ends in 1945...that's right, at the height of World War II.
My favorite part: knowing that prostitutes were the cleanest people of their time, probably the only thing I will remember.(my second star is me trying to forgive him for the Churchill fiasco)
More propaganda for those who believe everything old is bad and everything new is good.
You know what?
There are more slaves on the planet than at any time in human history - but, but, the Crusades, right?
If you want to use the term medieval as an insult, at least read something besides this nonsense.
Someone who actually, you know, studied medieval history, read the source material.
Not this second-hand, ill-informed tripe which may as well have been written by a hack paid to promote the enclosure movement and industrialization and deny climate change and write anything else which would turn readers into good little consumers without voices.
I'm no expert on the Middle Ages and the early Renaissance but I remember enough from college courses taken a millennia ago to know that this book has problems.
Manchester interprets the "Dark" Ages (he prefers "Dark" to "Middle" and certainly doesn't subdivide it into Early, High, and Late) as a long stretch of paralyzed time during which dirty, violent, religious (read: superstitious) people did very little thinking and accomplished even less.
Manchester does better than a high school textbook by not suggesting that there is a clear demarcation in time between the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, but not by much.

Every time I mentioned reading a book about the Middle Ages, this title seemed to come up, so off to the library I went.
The middle of the book devolves into a sort of Renaissance gossip rag - not a difficult task, perhaps, but it seemed that the author was intent on peppering the book with salacious and maybe even spurious accounts of the sex lives of many of the people he discussed.
It does not account for the thinking of the time, the progress of history, nor does it find anything positive to say about anyone save the emerging humanists and Ferdinand Magellan - clearly the idol of the author.
Firstly I must admit that I have very little knowledge of the Renaissance (I found it a boring subject at school!) but I found this book to be a very interesting and entertaining account of that period.
The author makes clear at the start of the book that it was not going to be a scholarly masterpiece.
Fair enough, he produced what I think was a good book that got you thinking about the subject he was presenting.
This book was an easy to read and lively account of that period and I found it a joy to read.
But having just come off of Tuchman's opus "A Distant Mirror" and its profound look at the fourteenth century- ending 100 years or so before this book takes up the thread - Manchester's basic conceit that the medieval era was truly the Dark Ages and a low point in human (read "European") learning and culture is a matter of opinion, and counter to much research.
Perhaps this lack of context explains why Manchester's characterization of Magellan as a hero, in spite of his many flaws, comes across as forced.
Manchester did an amazing job taking a very convoluted period of time from history and presenting it in an easy-to-read manner.
For instance, during the times of Henry VII and Henry VII the per capita allowance was a gallon of beer a day - even for nuns and eight year old children.
(pgs 54-55)Manchester does a fine job of weaving political, religious and scientific development in such a way that the text never becomes boring or dry.
An astonishing feat considering the large span of time he covered in history.Manchester pummels catholicism as he treads through its early development and expansion.
This is an excellent book on the rise of Christian Europe from the Dark Ages to Medieval times and the Renaissance.
I found it to be an honest look at the time, the royal leadership of Europe and their relationship with the church, the suppression of science and learning that wasn't in line with the churches dogma.Never before have I had such a glimpse into the Medieval train of thought and what motivated those historical figures that have reached almost mythical proportions: The Borgia's, Martin Luther, Henry VII, et al.A wonderful book for the history buff, the Renaissance Faire patron and the casual reader.
Until the last year or so, I had not often chosen to read books about history.
I especially liked the background on some of the more familiar literary figures and where truth and fiction separate (like the Pied Piper, Lancelot, Leonardo da Vinci and Lucretia Borgia.)The section on Magellan and his adventure against all odds to attempt to circumnavigate the globe is very interesting, though a bit disjointed with the rest of the book.
My only complaint would be that at times it was pretty dense reading and it took over a week to get through the book.
He gives a warts-and-all picture of peasant, artisan, clerical and noble life, mostly in the 15th and 16th centuries (little being known about life before then).
(READ IT YOURSELF!)The Reformation started out with the humanists and the Lutherans standing up bravely to the Catholic loyalists.
A cathedral took 200 years to build, yet how many of their builders are known?
All knowledge was known and nothing remained to be invented.A thousand years from now, if there are people and they remember us, what will they think of us?
There's a brief establishment of his look at the medieval world at the start of the book, but most of it is really on the transition into the Renaissance.
It's a very good summary of one of the great sea voyages of history.In general, A World Lit Only by Fire is a good readable starting point for the history of the Renaissance, but a lot of nuance is decidedly not there.
The general learned opinion is that his scholarship is too out date (I'll note that Durant's Story of Civilization looks to be the primary starting point of his opinions, which while great, is well over half a century old), though I don't know of a more current 'alternative'.
In an attempt to link Easter with the Passion, it was scheduled on Passover, the Jewish feast observing the Exodus from Egypt in the thirteenth century B.C."This is at best incoherent.
Why would you need to "attempt to link Easter with the Passion?" Easter is the celebration of the resurrection, as Manchester points out just before this passage.
All four gospels link the Passion story with Passover, even if John puts the last supper on the day before instead of making it a seder.
Bruno was probably a pantheist, but he also denied the authority of priests, which is most likely the thing that really got him toasted.
When the Roman empire fell in 5th century AD, Western Europe plunged into the Dark Ages.
For a thousand years, barbarian invasions, despotic kings, mercenary knights, corrupt popes, unreasoning Church dogma, intolerance, brute force, superstition, greed, strife and violence ruled the land.It was from this millenium of darkness that humanism emerged, and against this backdrop of backwardness that the Renaissance shone.
In the 15th century, Western Europe rediscovered the Greek classics.
Copernicus proposed that it was the earth that revolved around the sun.
This is a great book to have on your shelf for those times when an iPhone isn't available and you need to find out what Henry the Navigator was like. Or when tou think it sucks that you don't have an iPhone, you can look into this book and see why you don't have it all that bad. Things really sucked when the world was LIT ONLY BY FIRE
It didn't really take a book like Only by Fire to make me realize how Disneyfied this image is - no one with half an ounce of scholarship in history can resist pointing out how drafty castles are and how there was an almost complete lack of sanitation everywhere from the meanest hovel (and they were very mean) to the aforementioned castle, and how if you lived to the age of forty you were doing pretty well, though you probably would look about sixty...
Insightful and entertaining an every turn. A great and thought-provoking overview of the Renaissance period.
A World Lit Only by Fire claims to give a portrait of an age.
Though in some ways, Manchester does get the general form and outline correct, he then fills his canvas with the harshest colors in the cruelest medium, dabbing a bit of this here and that there when he doesn't know what else to fill it with.
Yes, the Church has committed abominations in the name of God. Yes, the Middle Ages were nothing compared to the modern world.
But my question to Manchester is only this: "What did you expect?"Of course the Middle Ages and the Renaissance will never look like our modern day.
He goes on and on about the renaissance and the protestant reformation and how it was a “shattering” of the medieval mindset that was in place during the previous era of history in Europe after the fall of the roman empire this suggest that the book focused on the great rebirth of Europe.As previously stated, in the shattering it goes in to depth about the changes in European history from the Dark ages, to the Italian renaissance this is shown by Manchester when he says “… familiar and comfortable to those loyal to the fading middle ages.
By doing this Manchester must have thought highly on the importance Magellan had on European history.Overall it was a great book that enjoyed reading!!
The irony was that the motivation was to free people from the rule of Rome about faith, but once the leaders were in power they were WAY worse than any Pope.
Faith had literally held Europe together then...” pg 117“It is instructive to note that Calvin was an ingrate...The dismal truth is that the new Christians would turn out to be at least as bigoted as the old” pg 128After the trial in Worms in 1521...“Within four years the number of Germans killed or executed approached a quarter of a million” pg 178
