https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14477.Teach_Us_Amelia_Bedelia
Once again the zany Amelia Bedelia is up to her high jinx. This time she goes to the elementary school to deliver a message to the principal and ends up subbing in a classroom. The children, of course, have a delightful time with Amelia Bedelia's usual mix-up of homonyms. This is a level 4 beginning chapter book appropriate for advanced beginning readers. Could also be used with 2nd or 3rd graders to discuss homonyms.
OMG AMELIA BEDELIA !!!
Summary:This book is about Amelia Bedelia, a maid who accidentally gets roped into teaching a class.
For example, on the list it tells the children to plant bulbs, so she goes out and buys light bulbs for them to plant.
Themes:A theme for this book is comedy.Personal Response:I loved Amelia Bedelia books when I was younger.
This book is super silly, and will have children of all ages laughing at Amelia Bedelia and her mistakes.
A teacher could read it to a preschool class because it is very simple.
Mrs. Rogers calls Amelia and asks her to go to the school to let the principal know the new teacher will be arriving late.
He thinks Amelia is the new teacher and he gives her the list of things to do, takes her to the class and heads back to his office.
Amelia Bedelia steps up to the challenge and the kids have a fabulous day doing so many things they never imagined doing.
When math time rolled around, Amelia takes the whole class to Mr. Roger's house to use real apples for the problems.
Humorous books keep kids and adults reading
Like all Amelia Bedelia books, this one will have you laughing out loud.
It is a good reading level for ages 6-8, but only if they are interested in the story, otherwise they won't think its funny.
In this particular story, Amelia Bedelia finds herself substitute teaching for a class of what seems to be elementary aged students, and of course, the children think she is hilarious because she takes everything literally.
This is a great book, and I highly recommend it to anyone who likes to laugh while they read!
I never read this one as a child, but I loved the very first book in the series as a child, and admittedly, they are still quite amusing.
How Amelia gets away with taking things too literally, and then following instructions in the way she perceives them to be, is beyond me.
There were only two negative things that I noticed.
The first was that Parish is guilty of the cardinal sin of mentioning that a character sang something, but neglecting to mention what was sung.
The second is that the ending is similar to that of the very first book in the series.
This book is about Amelia Bedelia, who accidentally gets roped into teaching a class. The principal gives her a list of things to do, and she takes each one very literally. For example, on the list it tells the children to plant bulbs, so she goes out and buys light bulbs for them to plant. Each task turns out to be very fun and silly, and the students are amused by this new teacher that they have.
Amelia is sent to school principal with message that teacher will be late, but Mr Carter mistakenly gives her list for substitute teacher. Call the roll. Sing a song. Run, run, run. Plant bulbs. She buys lightbulbs, and screws up all the list. For math, she takes them home for a bushel of apples. Her surprise makes everybody happy at the end.
The most literal person in the world must follow sub plans, and being a teacher myself, I know how hard that is. Hilarity of course ensues.
I want to read it
This is a fun book for lower elementary to read. Many puns that make children laugh and the plot is well written. This is a dated book when showing illustrations and race.Grade level: 2-3Genre: Contemporary Realistic
At the end of the day, it was math time, and Amelia was supposed to read math problems, which said to take apples away from the students, except no one had apples.
Amelia ends the day a little early and the students really enjoyed her but their new teacher arrives.
I think that this book would be a good read for future teachers like myself, just to have a good laugh, and even learn some ways to have fun with your students while still making it educational.
It shows at the end when the students are sad that Amelia was only there for one day.
(Likewise, my family is referred to as the Pontiuses, not the Pontii, even though the latter is much more fun to say.) So the home of the Rogers family is "the Rogerses'" and not "the Rogers'." I personally think we should follow the French model, which pluralizes a family name by sticking a "les" in front of the name and turns "the home/place of" into the much more elegantly economical "chez." In the meantime, though, can we please not put terrible English errors in children's books?I also gather that this particular story may not have been the best introduction to Miss Bedelia.
Even her typically recalcitrant pupils know that to "call the roll" does not mean that you should place a yeast breadstuff on the floor and call out to it, as though expecting it to respond "Yes, what is it you would like?" and come a-running.
Where did she even get the roll?
A fascinating if sobering look at the sorry state of education in the world today, lending a whole new meaning to the oft-repeated phrase "Those who can't do, teach".
As parents, indeed as humans in general, we must ask ourselves "Yes, but WHAT are 'those' luckless souls going to teach?
In the book Teach Us Amelia Bedelia, a new teacher is stuck at the airport and will be late for class.
By the time the new teacher shows up, the children have gone home and the adults enjoy the taffy apples that Amelia has made.
The illustrations enhance the text and really help children to understand the text that they are reading.
I think that children would get a kick out of the illustrations alone, simply because they can visually see all of the funny things that Amelia Bedelia is doing wrong.
SUMMARY:Amelia Bedelia is mistaken by the principal as the substitute teacher, and he puts her in charge of the class for the day.
Besides calling out "role," planting (light) bulbs, and singing to her hearts content, Amelia leads the students to her boss' home where they have an apple chase, before Mr. and Mrs. Rogers return with the regular teacher.
Luckily, they get everyone back to school safe and sound and Amelia decides that she will stick to her usual day job with the Rogers.
How would the parents feel if they knew Amelia took their kids out of school for the day?
Summary and Critique:A missunderstanding lands Amelia in a classroom full of eager-to-learn elementary school students.
She takes the students on a surprise field trip and the kids have such an amazing day with her that they beg for her to come back and teach them again.
This book was humorous and an easy fun read.Classroom Use: This would be the perfect book to teach primary students how to do a good summary on a story.
Genre: Comedy, Humor Format: Short chapter book Grade level: Kindergarten- 3rd grade Theme/topic: Jobs, career Gender, race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status: None of these were included within this story Citation: Parish, P., & Sweat, L.
Teach us, Amelia Bedelia.
I really enjoy how Amelia is portrayed as a very literal person and almost sarcastic in her actions because I find this to be really funny and actually quite relate-able sometimes and I think a lot of children who read this would agree.
This book is realistic fiction because the events that take place could've happened in real life but it is also transitional because it is a book for children to are new to reading or who are not very good at reading yet.
When Amelia Bedelia is mistakenly given the wrong list at school, the class was never the same because they were taken on many adventures.
Amelia Bedelia is a silly woman who takes things quite literally.
Her silly antics include planting light bulbs for science, and making word problems into real life situations.
Amelia Bedelia can’t seem to follow any of the directions as they were meant, which leads to some wacky situations that guaranteed to get some giggles from students.This could be a fun way to look at classroom management as well as following directions as they were intended.
Amelia Bedelia makes every situation an adventure, and Teach Us, Amelia Bedelia allows students to use their imaginations to make school a constant and entertaining adventure.
Date: April/18/2013Time: 60 minutesLevel: 2 (high-interest story for developing readers)1.
7-word summary telephone, teacher, school, children, song, jumping rope, taffy apples2.
Impressive sentence/comment "I do love children." Amelia Bedeliia seemed to like children and teaching them by reading the sentence.
I also like teaching children English.
I'd like to be such a good teacher like her.
If I would be a teacher, I would do love children as well.3.
Discussion Question Q: If you would be a teacher, what would you like to do with your students?
A: I'd like to share our feelings with each other.
The famous Amelia Bedilia returns in this book as a subsitute teacher for an elementary school classroom.
Just like in her first book, Amelia gets a lot of her directions mixed up.
She and her class do all kinds of mixed up things throughout the day of school because Amelia hasn't quite mastered that sometimes words that sound the same have two different meanings--this is why this is a great lesson to teach on homophones!
Amelia and her class do things such as plant light bulbs in pots rather than plant bulbs, because Amelia didn't know "bulbs" refer to flowers.
I loved the Amelia Bedilia books.
I've never laughed so hard while reading a book to my daughter.You know how when you read aloud and your eyes read ahead of what is actually coming out of your mouth, well half the time I was laughing so hard about something before I managed to read it out loud to my daughter.
She kept giving me weird looks until I finally managed to read it to her.
It's been quite a few years since I've read the books but I loved every Amelia Bedilia book and plan on getting ahold of them again soon so I can read them to my grand daughter.All the Amelia Bedilia books are highly recommended.
Housemaid Amelia is sent to school principal with message that teacher will be late, but Mr Carter mistakenly gives her list for substitute teacher. Call the roll. Sing a song. Run, run, run. Plant bulbs. She buys lightbulbs, and screws up all the list. Arithmetic problems assign four apples to Ginny. Paul takes away two. Amelia takes the class home to the Rogers' house for a bushel of fruit. (view spoiler)[ Taffy apples make everybody happy. (hide spoiler)] At the end her surprise cooking sooth
Housemaid Amelia is sent to school principal with message that teacher will be late, but Mr Carter mistakenly gives her list for substitute teacher. Call the roll. Sing a song. Run, run, run. Plant bulbs. She buys lightbulbs, and screws up all the list. Arithmetic problems assign four apples to Ginny. Paul takes away two. Amelia takes the class home to the Rogers' house for a bushel of fruit. (view spoiler)[ Taffy apples make everybody happy.  (hide spoiler)] At the end her surprise cooking soothes upset adults. Pictures explain if words confuse.
It's kind of weird giving a rating to this book, because I'm rating it from the perspective of a parent reading the book to their 3 1/2 year old kid, when clearly it's meant to be read BY a 5 year old kid.
But, as a parent I gotta say this is WAY too long.
It's like 50+ pages!
While the basic premise (Amelia doesn't get figures of speech and takes instructions literally; comedic chaos ensues; in the end people forgive her cos she's such a good cook) is solid, 50 pages of this is too much.
This is a great story that a child can read aloud to a parent or to an adult or their peers.
It is a humorous and fun story that contains simple language, simply sentences, and great vocabulary.
In this story, Amelia is confused for the new teacher and oh the silly things she teaches these students.
For instance, she teaches the students to plant bulbs and she tells students to literally get apples for a story problem involving subtraction of apples.
This is a great story to read prior to introducing a class to a substitute and it is hilarious!
I don't remember much about grade school. I seem to recall learning that it's not proper to stand up during circle time, hike up your skirt and pull your tights comfortably up to your belly button, maybe I peed during a film strip in first grade and I do recall a VERY long unit on photosynthesis (spelled without the use of a dictionary, thank you very much Miss. Wilcox) BUT I do remember reading lots of Amelia Bedelia and thinking she was the heigt of comedic genius. So once again Lisa, 5 stars probably just for senitmental reasons.
Nothing's ever boring when Amelia Bedelia is around; this time, she takes over as substitute teacher and teaches the kids a lesson or two about how to make learning inadvertently fun.
They're a bit mean though to go along with all the bizarre things she does without correcting her.
Funny enough, a few days after I read this book, I walked past a house where someone had planted a light bulb in a planter box.
I also loved her attitude to maths problems involving apples being taken away: 'You all have apples.
Somebody is going to try to take some away.
Are you going to let them?'.
When the new teacher’s plane is delayed, the very literal-minded Amelia Bedelia ends up acting as substitute when she goes to tell the principal. Amelia and her class must call the roll, plant bulbs, paint a picture and practice their play, but none of this is done in the traditional way. This early reader is suitable for children who are comfortable reading alone, with its longer text and smaller pictures. It is still humorous, despite its age, and helps introduce some abstract thinking concept
When the new teacher’s plane is delayed, the very literal-minded Amelia Bedelia ends up acting as substitute when she goes to tell the principal. Amelia and her class must call the roll, plant bulbs, paint a picture and practice their play, but none of this is done in the traditional way.	This early reader is suitable for children who are comfortable reading alone, with its longer text and smaller pictures. It is still humorous, despite its age, and helps introduce some abstract thinking concepts and wordplay.
This was one of my favorite books growing up.
As I was reading this book I remembered why.
This book is very funny and fun for all ages.
A Amelia is substitute teacher, and as she is getting ready for the class she is planning some pretty crazy things.
She is teaching a class who at first is a little much, but we know she is able to do anything.
She manages to make the class enjoy learning with her wacky things she plans.
This is a great book to read to your class.
They will love to laugh about it and then will be wanting to learn.
学校にやってくる先生がおくれてしまい Mrs. Rogers が迎えに行っている間、なぜか Amelia が代理の先生をすることになってしまいました。 Amelia は教室でいろいろな言葉をまちがえてしまい、授業をめちゃくちゃにしてしまいます。わたしが一番おもしろいと思ったところは、Amelia が bulb を球根ではなく電球だとまちがえてしまい子供たちに電球を植えさせたことです。他にも play を劇ではなく遊ぶことだとまちがえてしまいました。 また、算数の文章題に出てきたりんごを子供たちが持っていないので、Mr. Rogers の庭でりんご狩りをして、子供たちにそのりんごの取り合いをさせてしまいました。そして、りんごあめを作り子供たちに1本ずつあげて、学校は終わっていないのに家に帰してしまいました。 そこに Mrs. Rogers と Miss Reed（先生）がやってきて Amelia をしかりますが、Amelia の作ったりんごあめがおいしかったので、2人とも喜んで終わりました。 この Amelia シリーズは、Amelia が言葉の意味をまちがえていろいろな失敗をしてしまうということが書かれています。1つの言葉にいろんな意味があることが分かって楽しいですよ。
