https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281433.Tick_Tock
Creepy fun reading!  LAUGHING WHILE CREEPING OUT! This is a great novel, only that curiously when I bought this book, I bought also, another novel by Dean Koontz titled "Life Expectancy" (you can see my review of that book here: Life Expectancy . I comment this, since I found both novels quite similar.Not exactly the general story and developing but the mood of the storyline.I totally adored Life Expectancy and I jumped right after that book to read this one and I was like "Mmh, I'm feeling lik
Another thing that I found quite similar is the female companion character of the main protagonist.On both books, the main protagonist finds a spectacular female character with great personality.So, while I loved both characters in each novel, it didn't help to my "deja vú" feeling.I know that Dean Koontz re-use a lot of elements, like smart dogs, protagonists who like to read and/or are writers, over-detailed towns, etc...
Do you like horror and suspense but are looking for something light and humorous in the genre? Did you just finish a massive, heavy novel and you need a quick getaway? Give Tick Tock a try - it is clever, unusual, and often hilarious. You may or may not like it, but does it hurt to give it a try?
When he answers the door no one is there, but someone has left a strange cloth doll with a note attached to it on his doorstep.
After bringing the doll into his house Tommy lives to regret it.This was a fast-paced, sometimes funny, and really strange read.
It was sort of a horror-comedy.
I liked Tommy.
Some people who read this book will like her, some people will find her annoying.
Her character was a bit "out there", weird---she was sort of an oddball.
The doll/demon/creature gave this book some spooky moments and Tommy's obstinate Vietnamese mother was funny at times.
I read this years ago and I found it thrilling! 9 of 10 stars
From the nonsensical story line, to the overly goofy characters, Everything in this book can't seem to make up it's mind about what to be.
I really feel as though the major plot points were chosen at random, perhaps through the "pull some words out of a hat and make a story about them" method.
In this case, you end up with a jumbled mess, with new ideas introduced at random and the most out of nowhere ending I've ever read.
When I finished this, I wanted to walk up to Dean Koontz, wave the book in his face and ask "What the heck was that all about?"
My first Dean Koontz book, and what an introduction! This book defines what Dean Koontz is all about. He'll reel you in from the first page to the very end, transport you into a world that you're so sure is this but turns out to be that. In this book you actually begin to fear a stupid little rag doll that is more terrifying than Penny Wise (from Stephen King's It) and terribly persistent, and when you find out who's controlling it... Honestly? This book will slap you over and over and over, and you'll like it.
It's very absurd, fast-paced and engaging. A book which you can read in a few hours, not be bored, put it away and then read it again after a month or two because you've already forgotten it. Quick, fun, ideal for travel.
This explains soooo much.This book is the sole reason that I always hesitate over bringing an unknown package into the house, even though I read it over 15 years ago.Tommy Phan is a Vietnamese-American who wants nothing more than to be as American as possible, to the great dismay of his mother.
He manages to evade going over for dinner and in a fit of rebellion he orders two cheeseburgers at a local diner.Later that night Tommy hears someone on his porch and goes to check it out.
Oh, am I repeating myself?And because the quote made me laugh:"You steal my son," said Mother Phan.
Unlike Koontz's most recent releases that were sometimes painfully dark, twisted and so intense I couldn't read them alone TICK TOCK is a more of a screwball comedy that reminded me of some of my favorite campy B horror flicks.
There is nothing like a good campy B horror movie!Koontz creates the most likable off the wall characters: the guilt ridden down to earth Tommy Phan (I don't know anyone who hasn't experienced the "guilt" phone call), Deliverance Payne who continually surprised me with her strangeness, Scootie the face licker, and Tommy's Mom who has some of the most hilarious lines in the book.
This book offends me greatly.
I was offended at the first 30 pages of foreigner stereotypes (give a Vietnamese mother a food obsession, over-protectedness and an inability to form predicates despite otherwise idiomatic English and you get Koontz' ridiculously pathetic attempt at being "diverse.") Hideous!As horror it's also pathetic.
Too much happens too soon.
There's no build-up or tension.
Jane Austen wrote scarier novels.Honestly, this is one of the worst books I've ever read.
When I finished the book I said a prayer for all the trees that died to make this literary turd.
Now, Tommy is running for his life meeting new people and trying to figure out why this thing is trying to kill him.This book kept me reading because I wanted to know what would happen to Tommy and if he would survive the evil doll trying to kill him.
I didnt want Tommy to die because then the ending would probably be really stupid.I would recommend this book to anyone who likes horror books that are funny and really entertaining.
Not going to lie, when I first read this years ago I actually loved it.
Tommy comes home and finds a rag doll on his steps and stupidly decides to bring it inside with him.
When the doll turns into something monstrous, Tommy finds himself on the run from it along with a weird woman named Deliverance who seems to know more than she is letting on and her dog she calls Scottie.
It really does come out of nowhere and you are going to love it.
Really again with the dog thing Koontz?
When I picked this up I expected a horror story, with focus on Tommy and a demonic pursuer.
It's a story about social moors, tradition, and family as well.Tommy is forced to confront his past and traditions.
But just the same, there is a bit of magic, a few wild car rides, and a trip to Las Vegas.All that's missing from this story is Elvis.The title implies something to do with a ticking clock or computer countdown.
Oh, there's a countdown the computer and clock having nothing to do with the story.
In the beginning, the first 25 pages or so, the book seemed to be a little wordy, a little draggy, and then boom you enter a world of doom with a creepy little white demon doll!
I think the 'humorous' aspect of the book took away from the whole 'creepy' premise of the story though.
I also was disappointed with the ending of the story as well.
Not what I expected at all.Overall it is a pretty entertaining book.
But because I feel like it was not what it could have been.
Let me just make a list:Stereotypical on race. Poorly executed horror/comedy mix. Unidentifiable characters. A think-as-I-go plot. Nonexistent world/environment building and character development. Laughable romance, if you can even call it that. An ending not worth reading toward...in the slightest. A book I wish I could un-read and have my time back.
I’m not sure when I first read this novel in paperback form, but it was probably right around the time it hit the shelves for sale in 1996.
I’m a HUGE fan of old black and white movies, and the movies Koontz compares this novel to are some of my all time favorites, which I’ve watched repeatedly.
I don’t know if it’s because I’ve grown a lot since reading this novel when it first came out, or because my taste in novels has changed a good deal since then.
Without knowing why he is thrust into a supernatural nightmare.
If you have read this author's books you will recognize all his trademarks like the chase between evil and good, the enigmatic woman, and of course the intelligent dog.
This novel isn't as scary as his other works because he added humor to the mix and at times I did giggle out loud.
I know that people have said Koontz isn't the same writer he once was.
This book is one of his earlier works and harkens back to the way he did write novels.
Fans of Koontz will enjoy this novel and also fall in love with the dog Scootie.
This was a pretty weird story and takes an interesting turn. I loved the fact that the hero was Vietnamese-American, and he sounded like a real cutie. It uses a little bit of Vietnamese folklore which was neat as well. Not my favorite by Koontz, because I thought the ending was strangely absurd and I laughed, and I'm not sure I was supposed to be laughing. It starts out serious and descends into hilarity, and the change in tone was a little jarring for me. Good book all around and great hero.3.5/5.0 stars.
Slapstick horror? It was a bit like "Bringing Up Baby" meets "Joy Luck Club" meets "Halloween" meets "Close Encounters". I can't even imagine to whom I might recommend this book because it crossed so many genres. Horror fans would most likely find the banter annoying. Romance readers would most likely be put off by the violence. But it made me laugh and kept me in suspense and I loved the three main characters - whom I envisioned as Katharine Hepburn, Cary Grant, and scary Mrs. Kim from Gilmore Girls.
I read Tick Tock over 20 years ago and now I just finished this on audiobook. I would give the story 3 stars this time. I love Dean Koontz' wild and zany characters, but I thought the story just wasn't my style. I'm not a big fan of the terminator gingerbread man.
I was totally into it and then, then Del Payne came upon the scene.
The book started off promising Tommy Phan is a likable character with problems that any reader could probably connect with.
I kept reading and enjoyed other parts of the book.
In the afterword by Koontz he said he wanted to write something light and mixed horror with screwball comedy.
I didn't want comedy and horror mixed.
But if you're looking for the monster of the week type book skip this one unless you want a touch of as Dean calls it "screwball comedy".
Tick Tock was a book I had read like 15 years ago and I had recalled enjoying it a lot so I gave it five stars.
I remember there being a doll that morphs into a monster that chases the main character around and my memory seemed to recall that it was one of the best Koontz books I'd read at the time.
I also want to take a second to complain about the dog in this book.
Why...oh why...does Dean Koontz have to have some ridiculous, heroic dog in every other book I read of his.
This is one of Koontz's more fun, adventurous, pulse-ounding books with lots of unexpected twists and turns to it.
As I was reading it, I kept calling it an 'odd book but pretty good,' which is still how I feel about it for the most part.
It's a mixture of sci-fi and horror but always with some levity in it and a great Koontz adventure that will leave you breathless with an added element of humor and just a bit of romance.
Everything is more than it seems, but nothing is as mysterious as it appears to be. -Chapter 6 Reality is what we carry in our hearts.... - Chapter 9I liked this the second time around better than the first, and even more the third time :-) Originally read in 2009 and re-read when Tick Tock was chosen as the October 2012 Group Read for for the Koontzland - Dean Koontz group. Re-read in October 2014.I loved the character of Deliverance Payne especially and thought the book was really fun.
Just a word of warning, if somebody leaves a creepy, little cloth doll with thread sewn features...don't take it in. Burn it quick...get help...Koontz writes books the run from fantastic to (in my opinion) almost unreadable. This one is on the plus side. Enjoyable. Though again I wonder, did this guy NEVER read a horror novel or see a horror movie. Never trust creepy dolls.
I really liked this book. The only reason I gave it a four is because the beginning started off super interesting then there was a couple chapters that were somewhat boring. I wish the whole book kept me as enthralled as the beginning and the end of the book. I loved the characters in the book and the characters definitely have quite the twist at the end.
It's not my favorite book of Koontz, but it's impossible to forget the great skill of heading you off the place where he always want you most: expectation.
I am fairly sure I got this impression from my mother, for whom I picked up a copy of Ticktock from a second hand store.
It got a little tedious at times, but it wasn't that bad.Despite that, I liked the story.
The characters were likeable and while perhaps an evil doll coming to life is a standard in horror, the pace was nice (despite being wordy) and the story kicked off right from the beginning and kept moving.
It pains me to say that around mid-chapter eight I got a sense of the end coming and I knew it was going to be bad.
Is there any harder genre to pull off than the horror/comedy?
Unless you're watching Bruce Campbell in Evil Dead 2 or in Bubba Ho-Tep, you're virtually guaranteed to be left feeling unsatisfied.
The whole thing has a make-it-up-as-you-go feel to it, and the ending--which comes out of nowhere--is likely to give you a headache in its absurdity.
Koontz can be a brilliant writer at times, but I don't think he has a good ear for comedy; and his weak attempts at humor do nothing but water down the scary aspects of the story and make it harder to suspend disbelief.
A good suspense thriller/chase book as the main characters try to escape "TickTock" the "Deadline to Dawn".
The main characters are Vietnamese.
Tommy Phan finds a straw/rag doll with stitches on heart/eyes on his step.
When the stitches popped off the doll turns into a devil but they try to get the stitches back onto the rag doll.
Does it sound like you ever should ever pick up & keep a strange straw doll with you?
The end is good with their relationship I didn't expect.
