https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818675.Dead_Men_Do_Tell_Tales
He showed why the narrative outside the lab was so important to his work.His final thoughts on the state of his profession are really interesting.
Here's one really strange description:http://www.doenetwork.org/cases/1044u...- Height: 5'4" (OCME lists her as 5'7" but photo is consistent with LE's report of 5'4")- Weight: 180 lbs.
In fact, even when a corpse was listed as 'recognizable', a lot of information is sometimes missing as in this case: http://www.doenetwork.org/cases/1271u...Is this information just not available to the Doe Network, did it get lost, or what?
Well, I loved this book when it focused on actual cases and forensics.
I HATED this book when Maples went off on tangents about how brilliant, smart and better than everyone else he was.
And if I hear another old-man-forensic-slash-biological-anthropologist brag about how much food he can eat while being surrounded by grisly putrid remains OR about how shocked people are when he pops a bit of human bone into his mouth to check for consistency, I think I will scream.
It's old news, guys.
Probably four stars when the content focused on bones and dead people.
As much as I love a good forensic anthropology tale, I had trouble becoming interested in the stories while dancing around some of the most pompous, self-serving writing I've seen on the subject. Maples pats himself on the back and paints a picture of the victim's crusader for justice, when it's quite clear that ego, not empathy, is the driving force.
Like many other reviewers, I found this book to be somewhat verbose, occasionally redundant, somewhat sexist, and the author - while definitely accomplished and intelligent - arrogant (interestingly, a trait he doesn't hesitate to point to with disdain when observed in his colleagues!).
In many places his narrative is histrionic and choice of words anachronistic - whether this is natural or a conscious choice is not apparent, but I found myself reaching for the dictionary on several occasions only to find that the word in question wasn't even listed.
Imagine that your uncle or grandfather were a forensic anthropologist who worked on famous cases like identifying the remains of the Romanov family or figuring out if President Zachary Taylor had died of arsenic poisoning, and you asked him to tell you stories every time you got together.
Dr Maples points out that the real life of a forensic anthropoligist is filled with more unaswered questions than solved cases and that even those that do have answers can take a really long time to wrap up; an important thing to know, especially for anyone who wants to go into the field.This book was actually written before CSI and all the other forensic science shows hit the tv scene.
But, what I liked best about the book was the language: sometimes graphic, sometimes poetic, but always informative and interesting.
He comments on the evil that murderers commit by saying, "...even after long, enforced communion with the foulest recesses of human nature, I cannot trace this dark river to its source, nor can I suggest a way to dam or divert it." He makes a case for forensic anthropology by summing up: "...the lamp of science, properly grasped and directed, can shine its rays into the very heart of darkness."But I am drawn to any author who uses words like "fanfaronade".

Midesi hassas olanlar覺n okurken yak覺n覺nda kova bulundurmas覺 tavsiye olunur: https://www.uludagsozluk.com/e/40270982/
It's an interesting book.
Maples treats his subjects thematically, rather than on a case by case basis, and includes many instances of cases where identification was impossible, or murderers never found.
He likes to talk about how gruesome his work is, and can be a bit tiresome actually, going on about how he managed to keep his lunch in instances where policemen did not.
It's interesting, but I think that owes more to the subject matter than the writing.
I enjoyed the book for the contrast it poses to CSI and other brands of mystery fiction, but I wouldn't read it again.
It's not a book for the faint of heart or stomach, especially the photographs.
The style is way too "poetic" and pointlessly "fancy"; it wouldn't be a good style for any book other than a Victorian bodice ripper, and it is particularly ill-suited to a medico-scientific book by a practicing clinician.
Bodice ripper.On the media, after tests revealed Pres.
No more did the networks jangle my phone, wooing me with their blandishments." Why not, "The media stopped calling"?Perhaps these don't sound so bad but a whole book of them really gets old.
This was a fascinating book.
I don't agree with other comments about it being arrogant and sexist.
I think Maples is justifiably proud of what he does, and he gives full credit to his wife for her part in supporting him and doing her own job as media specialist.
I found the case histories fascinating, and was impressed by what forensic anthropology could contribute to criminal investigations.
(In fact I'm reading this book nearly twenty years after it was first published, so I guess things may be even better now.
(? I don't know.) If ever a book made a case for the need for more forensic anthropologists this one does.
I found the book overall rather disappointing. The first half consists of the author's background, followed by gory, explicit details of cremations, executions, etc. Second part was more interesting - and more what the average reader is likely expecting (looking for) - actual cases Maples has worked on from the evidence provided. Still, he came across to me as arrogant and whiny. Not particularly recommended.
This book focused more on stories and cases that the author was involved with, as opposed to trying to teach forensic science (although there was plenty of science.) Nothing dull herein.
Particularly fascinating were the "Meek-Jennings" suicide case, the examination of the bones of the murdered Russian Csar and his family, and the description of the bones of Pizarro.
A couple sections were brutal in their gruesome detail, although the author took pains to share his knowledge in a way that didn't glorify the horrific nature of it all, most notably the section on the remains of children who have been abused and murdered.
This was a reading assignment in my Forensic Anthropology class last semester.
At first I thought the author's tone was narcissistic.
Thankfully, towards the middle and end the author wrote about more about forensic science and less about his younger years, and he included more information on the field of forensic anthropology itself.
The writing itself is excellent.
Dr. Maples is clearly very well educated, and his hobby of reading literature shines through in some parts.
He covers war crimes, suicides, and murders.
I wish he would have gone into detail about more specific, high profile cases like he did in the last three or so chapters.

If you are interested in how stuff really works in all the gory detail and what it's like to be an actual forensic anthropologist this is the place.
More of a series of memoirs than a scientific study, but greatly explains the science stuff as well very neatly and humorously at time.Not for the easily queasy, but great for those seriously interested in light reading in this area of study and crime solving.
Does has photos and great stories as well as trying times and a bit upsetting actual details to crimes.Very well written.
There are case studies of heinous crimes--the drifter, Danny Harold Rolling, who murdered five University of Florida students--but also cases involving historical figures such as President Zachery "Old Rough and Ready" Taylor who died of an unspecified gastrointestinal disorder after only sixteen months in office.Was he our first assassinated president?In one of his most famous cases, Dr. Maples was invited to Russia to examine the bones of what might have been the last Czar of Russia, his family, and servants.
There was more emphasis on the author's career than on the forensics, though there was little distinction between the two at times.
I don't particularly enjoy religion creeping into my forensics, but I understand that when a person sees what Maples has seen and has to discuss what Maples discusses, they have to have a rock.
Maples' is his religion and that's fine.
It's a fine balance and Maples walks it well.
If I weren't already set on my career path, I honestly would have been swayed to look into forensics after reading Maples' passion for the topic.
If you ignore the narcissistic pomposity in the writing style, there are some interesting forensic cases here. I do, however, dispute the claim that Marshalltown is the archaeologist's trowel of choice. It's too angular. WHS is much better.
Research for Silent Evidence.
I'm a fan of the TV show "Bones" and generally enjoy memoirs by medical doctors and such, so I was looking forward to this volume.
The author writes well, and when he focuses on a deceased person, such as Pizarro or the "Elephant Man," the stories are interesting and informative.
Unfortunately, he spends too much of the book talking about himself and either explicitly or implicitly relating how wonderful and amazing he is.
Dude, your readers are much more likely to admire you if you let them reach that conclusion than if you inform them that you're awesome.
I really wish he'd gotten out of the way of his own story.
The strange and fascinating cases of a forensic anthropologist is indeed strange a fascinating.
Yes, the never-found daughter of the Russian Tzar.Every chapter is devoted to a specific case.
I think I was too captivated by the grandeur of the previous protagonists - yes, there's even a US president in there.
I read several other books about this topic and Mr Maples is right: there's no abundance of forensic anthropologists in the world and several stories sounds similar.
But please don't take it in the wrong way: is still a book worth reading, both if you like the subject and if you're just approaching it.
Then he get into this subject and all the unnecessary adjectives and adverbs are left behind as he discusses bones and dead bodies.It is really fun.Things I didn't know:-examiners can tell what someone used to cut through bone by the cut markings left on the bone-bear hands look a lot like human hands when you get down to bone level-metal stuff can be left behind in cremation-silicon breast implants don't decay with the rest of the body and, according to a grad student of Maples, look like jellyfishThis was such a fun book and so much less gross than it should be.

Maples is an icon in the field of forensics, and his career has covered everything from African anthropology to determining the identity of bones found outside Ekaterinburg in Russia.
Yes, big names are dropped--the Romanovs, Francisco Pizarro, Joseph Merrick--but the joy I found in this book is Maples commitment to the people who once inhabited those bones.
It's quite clear that it doesn't matter to him if the bones are from An Important Person or from a soldier who died anonymously overseas, or a murdered young woman.
The important thing for him is bringing closure to the family and loved ones left behind...and therefore bringing restored dignity to the person's name.Lovely writing, wonderful book.
Dr. Maples' memoir of working as a forensic anthropologist at the Identification Lab in Gainesville, Florida, right across the way from the memorial wall where he can see the names of Danny Rolling's victims daily.
Here's a man after my own heart -- he even majored in English Lit, like I did -- and the writing gets more florid, purple and literary as the story moves on.
His forecast of the future of forensic anthropology is daunting, to say the least, but this book should help make it clear to anyone who doubts that this is a needed skillset in a crime-ridden world.
The stories in here are remarkable and not to be missed.
3.5-3.7This is sort of a reread for me. I started a long time ago-several years ago but never finished. I decided to reread and finish And my opinion has changed a little over the years. One or two chapters were kind of boring and I definitely get a little arrogance from the writer but overall an interesting book. He strays and repeats sometimes but when speaking about his cases the read and wait is worth it. A little technical and confusing at times if not paying full attention. He has certainly accomplished a lot in his career though.
If I ever won the lottery, I'd go back to school and become a forensic anthropologist. Since I've already spent enough money on school, I'll take armchair forensics for now. This book was overall, amazing. There were portions where Dr. Maples was rather self-serving. However, his descriptions of his cases and how they were solved was fascinating, and just on the right side of scientific to keep people who know terminology interested while also appealing to people with less skeletal familiarity.
If you aren't grossed out by this kind of thing, you'll be fascinated. I'm never grossed out, so, yum.
I savored every word. This is going right onto my favorites list, no bones about it.
