https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1981007.The_Greene_Murder_Case
L'investigatore snob, coltissimo, amante del lusso e dell'arte creato da S.S. Van Dine nel 1926, torna in questo romanzo per risolvere un caso intricatissimo col suo tipico metodo: studio psicologico dei personaggi, dell'osservazione attenta e della rielaborazione di indizi apparentemente inspiegabili.La famiglia Greene è caratterizzata da una insolita clausola legata al testamento del defunto capofamiglia Tobias Greene: la vedova e i 5 figli dovranno rimanere a vivere nella dimora di famiglia per 25 anni, per aver diritto all'eredità.
Tutti gli indizi devono essere presentati e descritti con chiarezza." Ecco, proprio in questo romanzo una prova chiarificatrice viene presentata al lettore solo un capitolo prima della cattura del colpevole, quando ormai Vance ha già in mente la soluzione!
A little longer than it probably needed to be, but it kept my interest piqued to the end. Lots of older books mentioned and used in the storyline. Good solid mystery. Not any really 'likable' characters for me.
There were enough clues, it was a fair game :)
Покрай наскоро излязлата нова репродукция – защото историите за Поаро са си планирани за чисти визуални вакханалии от типа картина на Леонардо с милиард скрити елементи зад сенките на нечия полу – ехидна усмивка или неособено бързо загасен пламък в очите; на онази така добре позната история за трупа в Ориент експрес, се замислих какво е удоволствието да се гледа или чете история, чийто край знаеш, независимо колко оригинална, красива или вълнуваща по спомен е била някога.
Very old school. Had to keep a dictionary handy -lots off words and phrases no longer in use. A fairly unpleasant set of characters and I found it hard to be charmed by Philo Vance or his shadow, the author. A period piece.
This is a good diminishing-pool-of-potential-victims novel as the Greenes are eliminated one by one, with no apparent motive. As Van Dine novels go, not overly complex and Philo Vance stays relatively focused without wandering off into abstract monologues on irrelevant matters too often.Notable quotes:"This affair is too complicated to be untangled by the unravelling of details.""The person who sat in that library night after night and read strange books by candlelight is the key to everything."Philo Vance: "The intruder must have left the room."Sibella Greene: "I suppose he must have, if he's not there now."
I learn plenty about art, literature, and foreign words and phrases, which makes the books enjoyable.
This one was a bit like Agatha Christie, in that people kept dying and the pool of possible perpetrators kept shrinking.
What's interesting it's that these books are not detective stories, etc.
Sure, there are plenty of clues (or "clews," as spelled at the time) and red herrings, but the murders are solved as Vance plumbs the "psychology" of the case.
This novel had a grand action scene thrown in at the end to change things up a bit, but the basic formula was the same.
Okay, I can understand when the first victim is killed yeah, it's a tragedy, but no reason to move out of the house. But when the second person is killed, that's when someone with just an ounce of common sense should have been saying "I need to get out of here!" But nooooooooo. These stupid people just stay and stay, therefore they just die and die. Therefore, the murderer was doing the world a favor by eliminating these useless people.
This book reminded me of the old 1930-1940's black & white detective films that have given great pleasure on the years. I definitely plan to read the remaining books S.S. Van Dime wrote in this wonderful series Philo Vance ( think William Powell). Highly recommend!
Van Dine's detective novels have a very "old-fashioned" quality about them; THE GREENE MURDER case was published in 1928 but feels as if it was written 20 years earlier.
One suspects Wright wrote his novels almost as an excercise or self-challenge, and used detective stories of the past as his models.
Despite the multiple murders in THE GREENE MURDER CASE, the story unfolds very methodically, and I found it pretty slow-going until around the half way point; I'm not sure if it picked up for me at that point because the narrative became more compelling, or because by then I had gotten used to the author's style.
There is little characterization here, the mystery trumping everything else in importance.
The hapless Greenes are not much protected by Philo Vance, who for all his vaunted brilliance fails to unlock the puzzle until nearly all of them are dead. But this is one of the most quaintly enjoyable of this campy series -- that is, up to the denouement, which is a footnoted slog.Hugely influential -- see Queen's Tragedy of Y, Allingham's Police at the Funeral, Christie's Crooked House, etc.
4,5
Very interesting crime story, intriguing, fastly readable. This book took me back to the old tunes when we used to pause, think, make previsions, use our brains so to speak!
Good classic mystery. Full review at classicmystery.blog
Borrowed an original 1850s copy from The London Library, had no idea what to expect but was hooked from the first few pages ...
Имах чувството, че няма да му видя края на това книжле. Толкова разтакаване, излишни подробности и куп нещица, които натоварват процеса на четене. Добра история, но можеше по-добра реализация. Така че съм щедър за това крими.. 2.5 към 3.
S. Van Dine.Philo Vance has found his way into the mysterious murder of the ancient aristocratic (read: old money) Greene family who live in a mansion full of secrets.
When heirs systematically begin to be killed off, it seems only the genius of Vance can stop the carnage and save what's left of this family from demise.I absolutely love the Philo Vance series which totals twelve books written about the exploits and brilliance of a New York dandy.
The writing and language are high quality and intelligent - prepare your vocabulary for expansion - and the footnotes at the bottom add an extra charm which make the lives of Van Dine and Vance seem all the more real.
Van Dine's Philo Vance books were financially successful and influenced a number of other mystery writers not least of whom was Ellery Queen.
The first two books in the Vance series were rather stiff and self-aware but that is not surprising.
The writer loses additional points for going out of his way in his attempts to demonstrate the Vance is extraordinarily well educated and then misuses words that should be part of any decently educated person's vocabulary.The greatest mystery of this series, to me, is that it was successful and influential.
When a series of murders take place in a rich family's home, Philo Vance is on the case!
This book has the biggest body count, by far, of the Philo Vance stories.
But as with most books at that time (1929) all murders take place off screen, so to speak.
Each member of the family hates the others and none are particularly fond of Vance and the police.
The resolution I thought would happen proved to be a red herring.
I was actually surprised the book even acknowledged the possibility, I would have thought that particular red herring would have been many years in the future.
I discovered the author when I was reading "Mission to Paris." The protagonist in Mission was reading one of S.
S. Van Dine's mysteries, so I thought I'd check to see if I could still find his books.
Well, they are now being republished and I enjoyed the Greene mystery on my Kindle.
I found it to be a well-written 'who done it' and one's interest could easily be held without the addition of f bombs and gratuitous sex.
How refreshing is that!
This is a short read, thus perfect vacation reading.
3rd in the Philo Vance mystery series set in November/December, 1928. Vance, an independently wealthy college educated, amateur detective, uses his deductive skills and psychological knowledge to help his New York City District Attorney friend to unravel the murders of members of the wealthy Greene family. It is a case which appears to defy reason with no serious leads. Vance's methods are unconventional and go against the more rigid police investigative methods and lawyer legal requirements, but it through using them that he eventually solves the case.
This book seems quite derivative, drawing heavily on other mysteries. The narrator is very Watson-like & the main character, Philo Vance, is Oxford-educated and speaks like Lord Peter Wimsey. However, if you get past the rather tedious first 40 pages (and skip the lengthy German footnotes toward the end), it is a really good mystery. Philo Vance stories were made into movies several times--most notably with William Powell in the starring role.
I'm not particularly fond of Philo Vance, but these puzzles are rather interesting. Here a most unlikable family becomes the victim of a string of murders. I guessed some of the answers, but not the whodunit. Vance is Lord Peter Wimsey at his most obnoxious multiplied. While there are some fair- play clues, many others are held by the detective until the final reveal. Another case where "justice" takes unusual steps.
I've given it three stars because it was readable but Vance is subdued, there isn't a green carnation in sight (except by very close scrutiny of the subtext), the info dumps are notable, the identity of the murderer is obvious from the start, Mrs. Greene is beyond belief, and the promised frissons fail to materialise. How the author could have continued writing until the unsurprising denouement is beyond me.
The old Greene mansion, lived in by the late Tobias Greene's family, is a creepy old house, and Tobias' adult children start being murdered, one by one. Philo Vance and his best friend, the New York County District Attorney, John F.-X. Markham, take up the investigation, which leads them into a nasty family haunted by its past. Set in New York City in the early 1920's, they struggle to make sense out of all the contradictory events and clues that keep happening.
When members of the dysfunctional but wealthy Greene family start to die off by violence, Philo Vance enters the case, sensing that it is something deeper than it seems. Certainly there are aspects to the crimes that seem impossible--yet they happened. While I have a fondness for these books amounting to a weakness, I kept thinking while reading it how much better the young Ellery Queen handled similar material.
The third book in the series set in 1928 New York. Philo Vance is a wealthy aristocrat who assists his friend District Attorney Markham solve murder mysteries. The Greene Murder Case is about a wealthy family where the members are murdered one by one in their old mansion until Philo Vance solves the case. An interesting whodunnit that leaves you guessing up until the end.
Emozionante, ti tiene sospeso fino all'ultima pagina. Da leggere!
Very good. Had a neat little twist to it.
Dated but not a bad read. I do hope the New York police department was more efficient than it is portrayed in this mystery!
