https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/244383.Ask_and_It_Is_Given
A full year after reading this book, and following the "Ask And It Is Given" Formula, the items I placed in my perfect heart shaped box, are coming into reality every day!
I asked to create a best selling book to help children succeed in school - and did; I asked to crate a dream team to assist me in helping others become excellent readers and got one; I asked for a specific registered trademark which every attorney said would never happen, and yet, it was granted -- and so much more.
This book doesnt' just tell you that the world is wonderful; it truly shows you how to connect with the perfection that is everywhere.
I am really enjoying this book.
It is written in small digestible chunks, and although it is somewhat intense material to engage with originally (it is chanelled from a collective group of beings named Abraham, it is very applicable and has helped me to make some shifts mentally that feel great in my life.One of their arguments is that something feeling good is evidence of its being in line with who you are.
That is advice I can certainly connect with.
Very clear and easy to accept.
A friend passed it on to me and i am very glad she did.[http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASI...]
But a lot of the results were emotional hype, temporary, ultimately unhelpful, and not based in truth.There are so many other avenues to an improved life, and I strongly recommend those that are not rife with falsehoods like the ones sprinkled liberally throughout the Abraham-Hicks ideology.First of all, this information is being channeled from an unknown source.
Instead it caused me problems.Problems included denial and delusion, losing all sense of how to properly solve problems in my life, numbing negative emotions, feeling special and superior, isolation from others, turning off critical thinking, and losing my proper intuitive guidance.These teachings appeal to those of us who really, really, really, really want to believe that the world works this way: short-cuts, effortlessness, everything you could ever want, a perfect world, no pain, no reason to ever feel bad.
After four years it helps me to release bad and annoying emotions yet. Although I gave up on reading Self Helps books, this one is not something I can forget about easily. I prefer to categorize this book under philosophy of life not self help.
What I found most interesting in Ask were the deviations from Esther and Jerry (her husband) Hicks' 1989 book A New Beginning I, which predicted various "earth changes" that were on the brink of occurring in 1989, including simultaneous volcanic eruptions that would cover the earth's air with ash.
It is clear that Jerry was involved in this sort of motivational selling with Think and Grow Rich before his Abraham work.
While the effect of Think and Grow Rich on Jerry's life is mentioned in Ask, the Amway link is never made, though it is touched on in various interviews with the Hickses.
I started with the first book to come in from the library, figuring that one had a deadline so better get it read first.Ask and It Is Given: Learning to Manifest Your Desires, by Esther and Jerry Hicks, is a recounting of many workshops and meditation-channeling sessions that the Hicks have had with a Non-Physical Being, identifying himself as Abraham.
The more detailed internal monologues went something like this:– Ok, Jerry, so you’re telling me straight out that I’m going to receive some great revelations, great thoughts, have some life-changing moments from reading this book.
It's very simply set out and easy to comprehend which is great for those who are only just learning or discovering law of attraction.
As for people who already know about law of attraction I think it's great for a reminder and for fine tuning what you know.I did find it to be slightly repetitive but I feel that given the subject and taking into consideration how much we are all used to a certain perspective it's probably for the best as it drums it in more helping to push past any resistance and keeping a open mind.
Giving this book a rating is very difficult. On one side I believe it's a must-read for everyone who's interested in the law of attraction and all that, on the other side it's very repetitive and also I have difficulties believing every single thing like f.e channeling, (this book is not written by Ester but by Abraham, a spirit who took over her body while she wrote the book?) or growing new body parts if we just -believe we can do it-. Sometimes it doesn't make any sense at all. Nevertheless, it's quite interesting.
Wow. This book was kicking aorund my house for 18 months before I read. The cover looked, and the titled sounded, like it was religious. Then I opened it and I started to make all these miraculous things happen. I have found it transformative to say the least. I read it concurrently with 'Conversations with God" so the "channeled writing" aspect didn't phase me, really.
Love the simplicity, the ease with which the Abraham-Hicks material brings out our natural tendencies towards joyful abundance.
Reading Abraham always makes me realize that I have a tendency (and I think all of us who are slightly "overeducated" into believing in "the way things are" do) to overcomplicate most things.
There's a "system" here for bringing our energy back into alignment with joy, especially when we're going through some of life's toughest challenges -- you really can't go from utter depression to extreme joyfulness in 0 to 60 seconds, and I like the gentle approaches given here in order to realize from within where you're at, where you'd like to be, and how to go about begining the journey of living intentionally in the direction of your hopes and dreams like flowers grow towards the sunshine...
I never wrote a review before but I felt compelled to do so.
My sister bought this book and I decided to read it first.What impressed me from the beginning were the comments from Wayne Dyer, since he is my favorite author.
I have several self-help books in my collection, but I have never read a book that gave me such a profound and clear understanding as to why I am not getting all that I desire in life.
I can see the fruits of this book already.
Please get a copy of this book.
Read this and others years ago ..., then later listen to the tape while driving. Abraham has passed away since this book.... People are still getting great value.
and that is basically that negative thoughts tear you down physically, while joyful thoughts rebuild your body.Some more favorite quotes from that one segment on health: "Every cell in your body has a direct relationship with Creative Life Force, and each cell is independently responding.
When you feel joy, all the circuits are open and the Life Force or God Force can be fully received.
When you feel guilt or blame or fear or anger, the circuits are hindered and the Life Force cannot flow as effectively.
(Think Jane Roberts and Seth.) Abraham shares ideas about how the direction of our thoughts manifests change in our lives, and some practical ideas/exercises to help you with the process.I have been doing gratitude work for nearly a year now (that happens to be one of the exercises) and can attest that once you start looking for things to appreciate, more opportunities appear.
I started focusing on what I wanted to like, instead of what I didn't want to like (Abraham says focusing attention on what you don't want brings it to you because of your direction) and discovered changes in my life.I am open-minded enough to give some of these exercises a shot because I've seen what the gratitude work does.
i fell under the spell of this philosophy for a few years. it does have some good bits of cognitive therapy,but much of the 'law of attraction' crowd lacks a good helping of compassion. some truly believe if it doesn't work,or you're sick,you're not trying hard enough. life is not quite that simple.
Wonderful reminder to keep track of what you are thinking about.. think of joy and happy things, and get joy and happy things.. think of bad and unhappy things, and get that too... I have read this book about 12 times... and get something new out of it each time... And people wonder why I am in such a good mood all the time, and why my life is so great? HELLO????
رائع رائع رائع،، يذكرك بمن تكون ..انك صانع لواقعك ..صانع لتجربتك الخاصة من وحي افكارك وتركيزك للطاقة الصادرة منك ..لاننا كائنات ذبذبية
This book explains how we were creating by default, because these principles work whether or not we know about them...
The best part is that from what we learned from this book, we can now use these universal principles to deliberately create the lives we want for our future.
Abraham gives different processes to help you to start moving up the "emotional ladder." Based on how you are feeling right now, you can choose the best process to help you start moving towards your desired goal.There are many books on the market explaining these principles, but we have found that most of them reference this book, hence our title: The GRANDADDY of self-help books!This is a MUST READ!
Ask And It Is Given explains to us the universal laws of attraction on a very personal scale.
By being more aware of your thoughts and emotions, and gently directing them where you want to go, you become a deliberate creator of your own life.The first half of Ask And It Is Given is a discussion of these principles, and the second half contains 22 specific exercises you can choose from, depending on how you're feeling, to help you take control of your situation and begin to manifest more of what you want.If you happen to be a religious fundamentalist, you may not like this book.
Your life really does change when you change your thoughts. It's not easy, but worth it. These books/series/concepts are so inspiring and uplifting to me. I can read this stuff everyday and just feel more energetic, inspired, etc...I never get tired of it. They just released their new one, The Astonishing Power of Emotions, and I went out and got it the first day. I NEVER do that. Warning: it takes an open-mind to really get the most out of this.
Truly the best Abraham-Hicks book written! Probably the best, most useful, transformational book I own. This book is most recommended because of 22 processes in the back of the book that turn it into a literal handbook as to how you can revolutionize your life! There is not one other book that I am aware of that has such transformational information between its covers.
At least in this book, and even when I watched the videos of Bashar online, the ideas are not only repeated umpteen number of times (Neville Goddard repeats too, but it just feels fresh every time I read his works), but they are put forth in almost a condescending manner, apart from being too verbose.
The last three processes might as well have been from any of Neville's books.I rather prefer our human spiritual masters giving us straightforward instructions on life and living—one grown-up to another.
Picture the scene: a woman is meditating with her husband.
They’re just getting their trance on and suddenly, the woman’s head starts to shift about the place in sharp tics as if a swarm of bees has found its way in through her ear.
Her head’s really going for it and might spin off at any second, but her husband, rather than trying to wake her or calling an ambulance, grabs a pen and paper and starts to write.
Yes, it’s all okay; she’s obviously just spelling out words from another realm with her nose.
And so begins their communication with ‘Abraham’, their guide to all worldly knowledge via the medium of the nose.How wonderful!
So, start here, if you're interested in such things.I don't know quite what to make of Esther and Jerry Hicks.
She also provides tons of 'processes'for people to practice 'changing or fine tuning their vibration'.
In listening to the audio book, I could almost say the words along with Jerry when he kept repeating 'If you don't know where you fall on the emotional guidance scale, see the chart provided...'.
It provides more practical methods than any other book that I've read on the Law of Attraction and New Age thought processes.
A self-help book is pretty much formulaic.
While this book goes off the beaten path pretty early on (the authors are spoken to by an entity (for a lack of a better word) called Abraham).
The ideas in the book are far less crazy.
But really, when we were taught hard lessons of life, they just beat the happiness out of us.
That’s what the book wants you to believe.
Unlike the last few self-help books, this one had 22 exercises in the back, though, in fairness, most of them are pretty much the same, writing lists of different positive things.
"Ask and It Is Given," The Teachings of Abraham, by Esther and Jerry Hicks, does what authors like Dyer, Chopra, Walsch, et al have been trying to do for years - only much better.
The teachings are profound - and while the general concepts can be found in other books, there are nuances in "Ask and It is Given" that make huge differences.As a person who has read much in the field of new thought, I was amazed at how much I learned from this book that had escaped me through all of my other studies.
The first half outlines the general ideas necessary to understand what it takes to achieve personal transformation.
Essentially, it (The teachings of Abraham) are all about Self-Determination, which is what psychotherapy is about.
The process of becoming who you truly are (also Psychotherapy's goal) requires discipline and a great deal of honest introspection.
It is: A precise methodology for becoming a more self-reliant, self-determined individual.
Its definition of success is: "...
"Success is about a happy life, and a happy life is just a string of happy moments." (p.
But this I do know, you can have great influence on your life, and if you choose the next best feeling within your grasp--your life experience will improve.
"And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have faith in God. For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith.
This book is actually a description of how reality works for everyone, and how one can channel ones thoughts positively to stop actively "preventing" what you truly do want to happen.
You are the wisher, and the allower; the universe (God, All-that-is, Reality) is the do-er.
You wish, God grants the wish, you allow its receipt in your life.
On my own personal journey of prosperity consciousness and manifesting abundance, I have read just about every book on the subject.
I swore I wasn't going to buy another prosperity related book because they all just say the same thing over and over (just in a different way) and frankly I was getting really bored with all the repetition.
For me, this book has been the missing link that I've been searching for for years.
It may be that I had to read all the other books first to really 'get it' with this one.
This book truly is the missing link!
For me, the most valuable information in it was about the role emotions play when it comes to the Law of Attraction, along with specific details on how to use your emotions as a guidance system.
The first part of the book was about the Law of Attraction and the second part had a variety of different processes you could use to apply it.
If you're not really interested in all the implementation processes they suggest, you might want to consider reading one of their other books, The Law of Attraction: The Basics of the Teachings of Abraham instead.
