https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250165.After_the_Fall
Quite possibly the worst play I've ever read, and please take into consideration that I went to college with playwrights and was forced to read their crap.
This play was worse.
I also don't care for this perpetuated image of Marilyn Monroe being a failure.
It made me feel like a voyeuristic pervert reading about her through his eyes (though cliche as it was).
And had it not been for all the juicy Monroe scenes, no way would this play have been produced.
Read some of the dialogue aloud - sounds like a soap opera.
Floored me. Here's me, on the floor. It haunts me.
Nope. Wasn't really a fan of this one. Very disjointed, confusing, hard to follow along. It all takes place inside one man's mind, so things jump around a lot. Characters are despicable, moody, and their choices seem illogical or at least inexplicable in this context.
When I picked out two Arthur Miller plays to read this year, I was consciously trying to avoid the one he wrote about his marriage with Marilyn Monroe.
The first play in the collection: After the Fall.
Which, of course, is the one he wrote about his marriage with Marilyn Monroe.Now, if only it had just been about that, it might have been more enjoyable.
You're left with a revealing portrait of Miller as a tortured, conflicted and uptight (although honest) individual, and one of Marilyn as a deeply damaged and depressed person.
completely unputdownable, heartbreaking and fragile and aching and engrossing from the first page. it makes it even more riveting knowing that its about his (of course) complicated relationship with marilyn monroe. im desperate to see this acted, and im even more desperate to play the role of maggie. someone somwhere please, let me play that role.
Re-read this because I'm getting rid of it, it's not one of my favorites and there are no good monologues in it and my edition is a really dingy paperback anyway.
It's still kind of wanky, Miller trying to analyze his relationship with Marilyn Monroe and decide whether he was really in love with her, or just wanted to save her, or just wanted to sleep with her, or what.
There's some good stuff in here about that relationship and about communist witch hunts and stuff.
I think Miller was more of the former kind of writer.
Miller's biased and fragile reminiscences of his emotional wives.
Pretentious piffle from a likewise playwrote who damnshis far more talented movie star exwife.
Some thought provoking quotes but mostly reminds me of ex's erratic, irrational, inconsistent ramblings.
I thought this one was a little confusing.
الان" يريد بهذا ان يعبر عن مدي بساطتها و عن انها لا تشغل بالها الا بالحظة لا تفكر فيما هو ابعد من ذلك و تؤكد هي الاخري هذا المعني بعد بذلك في صفحات اخري قائلة له " لا تحمل المستقبل كأنك تحمل فازة " كناية بالطبع عن شدة الحرص و لقد صاغ مع ماجي حوارات في بداية المشهد الثاني حتي ان القارىء يكاد يعشق ماجي من خلال هذة السطور ثم يبدء في سرد الاحاديث التي تبين الي ما آلت الية الامور حتي تقدم ماجي علي الانتحارفي موضع اخر و علي سبيل المثال من الجانب السياسي في هذا العمل اثناء وجودة في محاكمة يعبر عن الازدواجية الامريكية "كم زنجيا تسمحون لهم بالتصويت في دائراتكم الوطنية ؟ ..
I am a fan of Arthur Miller's plays; The Crucible is my favorite...
This play is clearly semi-autobiographical with the main character, Quentin, being Miller himself and the character, Maggie, is Marilyn Monroe.
That being said, I loved the stage directions in this play and would love to see it performed.
with various characters passing on and off the stage.Although reading this play wasn't entirely satisfying to me.
I would love the experience of seeing how a performance would play on stage.
I liked this play....
Epic, devastating - I love Arthur Miller.
I didn’t care for this autobiographical-ish snapshot of Miller and his wives. He’s despicable, his wives are one- dimensional. Blech! I requested this collection of plays from interlibrary loan.
A cruel, thinly veiled portrait of Marilyn...
Well, it wasn't quite Death of a Salesman.
Parts of this are promising but when it gets to the section that’s very clearly about Marilyn Monroe and could be translated no other way, it’s hard to disagree with the critics who said they felt he exploited his relationship with her to sell tickets. Definitely not one that stands the test of time.
کوئنتاین، می گوید: جهان پر از بی عدالتی بود، من به دنیا آمده بودم تا درستشان کنم!Most of Arthur miller’s plays such as “A View from the Bridge”, “The Crucible”, “All My Sons”, “Death of a Salesman” etc.
“All my Sons” is a classic play, about guilt, responsibility, and the relationship between fathers and sons in the aftermath of a World War II corruption case, when two brothers come together to dispose of their parents' estate, their divergent attitudes and dispositions become increasingly accentuated: “Price”.
A superb drama though Miller says; "…a love story between a man and his son, and...
AFTER THE FALL. (1964). Arthur Miller. ****. This is a difficult play to read, and, I suspect would also be a difficult play to see performed. It would take all of the first act for the audience to try and understand the point of the drama and to get all the characters straight. Reading it, at least, help you get by that difficulty, since you have to know the character’s name as they speak – it’s on the page. The title refers to the scene in Genesis – the Fall being the end of innocence as Eve a
The title refers to the scene in Genesis – the Fall being the end of innocence as Eve and Adam partake of the fruit of knowledge.
This Fall is the end of a marriage as both husband and wife recognize that all their previous actions were just masks that enabled both of them to take advantage of each other.
It is the story of Quentin, a lawyer, and Maggie, a beautiful young singer.
Quentin tells his side of the story to an unseen “Listener,” a character who never takes physical form and has no dialog.
As the story progresses, other characters appear and disappear through the use of an appearing and disappearing spotlight.
The best thing about Arthur Miller's After the Fall is the format: As a transition between scenes, Quentin, the main character, speaks out loud about his life and experiences to an unseen "Listener." The story emerges from Quentin's memories and associations.
We are to believe that Quentin's next relationship will function well?The character of Maggie is thought by many to be a parallel for Marilyn Monroe, who was briefly married to Arthur Miller.
Perhaps you can understand why I didn't find the Second Act (mostly about Maggie and Quentin's marriage) to be much fun.
Not in the sense that I've experienced the same things - far from that - but in the sense of how weighty the burden of memory can be on our shoulders.
Nostalgic people are the primary victims, like Quentin in the book.
But the truth is we are all potential victims.
Every now and then, something flashes up in our faces reminding us how much things have changed.
As with all of Miller's books, you're prone to shed a tear or so when a certain truth strikes you.
I didn't know till I read that 'After the Fall' is a highly autobiographical account of Arthur Miller, himself, told through a man named Quentin/main character, who has suffered through a difficult family life and two marriages.
A key character in the play is Maggie, a highly self destructive but free spirited girl who becomes Quentin's second wife.
Maggie is Miller's interpretation of Marilyn Monroe.
If you are interested in Arthur Miller outside of his relationship with Marilyn Monroe, you might enjoy this book.
Would give 3.5 stars.
In between we see Quentin's first marriage end, the disintegration of his second marriage to a famous singer, and the fear he and his friends feel when the firm demands that someone names the former Communists among them.When I began reading this I was aware that Miller had caught a tremendous amount of heat for this play.
He might as well have gone ahead and given the characters their real names: Quentin is Miller whining endlessly about truth, Maggie is Marilyn Monroe as the "quite stupid, silly kid." And the later lover, calm Holga, is Miller's then wife, Ingeborg Morath, the only female in the play that Miller doesn't portray as impossible to please.
I like it better than Death of a Salesman, even; especially loved the interesting structure of the play in unfolding from the dream-like perspective of the main character Quentin.
The vignettes and characters in them came and went like people flickering in Quentin's consciousness, which although made the play a rather confusing read also had the effect of bringing out Quentin's disordered inner state.
The refrains of several characters (mostly Quentin's female friends e.g. Holga) seem to hide a deeper meaning - must read up on that, as well as the very interesting conclusion that Quentin's haunted universe eventually came collapsing down to.
A challenging read because it is told in a very non-linear sequence with minor characters popping in and out of main character's (Quentin) life in fragmentary bits to reveal key moments/relationships with family, wives, friends throughout his life.
The most interesting scenes for me are those between Quentin and Maggie (which struck some viewers as scandalous for its apparent revelations about Miller's marriage to Marilyn Monroe.
The plot is difficult to follow because it takes place in Quentin's mind, his thoughts can be random, short, fleeting, repetitive...
The dialogue is strong, but the jumps between scenes, characters, eras is a little tedious to follow when one starts the play.
However, as the story progress, Miller brings a little more cohesion to the overall story and focuses more on the two main character: Maggie and Quentin.
Quentin's life (and the play) is shaped by the women in it.
He tries to save each one, but in the end is accused of not loving them enough.
In the end he is forced to save himself and by doing so, abandons each one.
I was interested in reading this book because of Miller's reputation as an acclaimed playwright.
I read The Crucible in school and did not like it, so I decided to read something on my own time (because sometimes reading things in school makes them less enjoyable).
The format of the play is interesting, with the main character reflecting on his life and the people he is thinking of appearing like out of a fog, but this play is depressing and too serious.
I liked the stream-of-consciousness techniques and its stage possibilities, which seem to draw on what the producer would not allow him to do for Death of a Salesman (stage as Willy Loman's head), but I honestly thought the play seemed like apologism for elements of of Miller's well-publicized life, including his experiences with HUAC and Marilyn Monroe, upon whom Maggie was clearly based.
The absence of Felice for so long helps make the play more confusing.
She's introduced so quickly and abruptly, that I'm not sure what he was trying to accomplish with her that he couldn't have done with with Maggie or Louise.
It's difficult to write a review for After The Fall without using the word catharsis -- but it's really the appropriate word, because it serves both as a grounding for the play's origin and unfolding, while at the same time unfortunately justifying the veil that separates you from connecting to the characters. Even for those who recognize the ghosts of Marilyn, Arthur, and Inge, this play is too personal to Miller to be universal in the way he masterfully manages in The Crucible, A View From the Bridge, and even the underrated Incident at Vichy.
