https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/343091.What_the_Witch_Left
This was a favorite of mine as a child and I'm enjoying rereading it for the umpteenth time. There is something extraordinarily charming about believing in magic as a child. It's like believing in Santa Claus and the tooth fairy and that your parents are the bravest, strongest, most perfect people on the planet.In this dog-eat-dog world, sometimes it's nice to remind yourself of the time when life was much less complicated and lessons could be learned through magic cloaks and boots and there is a box that contained the things you lost--like your innocence.
Two little friends, Katy and Louise, find that Katy's aunt Martha's stored possessions have some unusual properties. They have some fun (but not too naughty) adventures, get in a little (but never very serious) trouble, and provide a bit of minor help to others. An easy but very engrossing read, great for elementary schools kids. Chew seems to have written a lot, I don't know how I never encountered her before.
It was a fun little story but I think the grown-up in me got in the way of finding it outstanding in any way.
I think the storytelling and plot was just too simple for me at this point in my life, and the word-weaving didn't seem particularly special or memorable, though I would probably have enjoyed it more when I was a kid (and I do remember liking Ruth Chew's books as a kid).
needless to say, soon the gloves lead to all kinds of school problems for the girls, including pandemonium in the auditorium when Louse wears the bathrobe in a school play and all you can see of here is her head floating through the air.Over Thanksgiving break, Katy and Louise decide to try out the boots.
They find the gloves and teach Pilar how to do the new place mat design, which have been a hit in the marketplace.The girls have lots of adventures with the items in the bottom draw, until...well, you'll just have to read the book to find out.I loved this slow-paced, magical story.
I remember reading this as a little girl. It was one of my favorites and I read it many, many times. Now after being out of print for many years they are being reissued and at first I was a little worried. Would they hold up or would I be sadly disappointed and my memories spoiled? Well, I can report back that it was just as great as I remembered! Perfect for kids reading Magic Tree House, Junie B and Judy Moody. I know the perfect little girl for this book :)Buy this title at Powells Books.
I read this book as a child, it was one of the first books i ever purchased through scholastic books in grade school! I could not remember the name of the book and searched for years based on the story line. I found it two weeks ago! Priceless childhood memory! I think Ruth Chew was the original of originals when it came to writing magical books. She led the way for the Harry Potter type stories, more mild of course but ahead of her time.
This was one of my absolutely favorite books when I was growing up. I must have read it at least fifty times. Re-read it as an adult and feel like it holds up pretty well - pacing is pretty quick. The girls' finds and travels are fun and interesting. Would still recommend to a young reader who likes books involving magic without any romantic subtext interfering with a good story about friendship and adventure.
I loved all the Ruth Chew books as a girl, but this was my favorite of all. I still think about it often---the gloves that make you do everything well, the boots that make every step miles long---just so imaginative! It's amazing that in such simple language, Chew could stir up images and ideas that other authors took long novels to do and didn't do as well.
Really great children's novel with vibrant imagery; it's not very scary but it does have a classic eerie quality to it that's difficult to find in more modern middle-grade fiction. The characters were written to be complex yet easy for readers to relate to, and the plot was truly creative.
Adorable. The delicate illustrations by the author were a beautiful touch (I love when authors illustrate their own stories!). I did get a little frustrated that it took them so long to figure out the fruitcake tin, but I was impressed with how bold they were in using the boots! Also— spoiler alert— I liked how they never told their parents and it never turned into a moralization about lying. As a kid, sometimes it’s nice to have things only you know about.
This held up pretty well. I have often wished in the past 35 years since first reading it that I had seven-league boots.
Fun and pleasant read. I think I would have liked it more as a little kid, but it was still enjoyable.
When they open the drawer, the contents seem unremarkable: an old robe, flesh-colored gloves, a tin box, a broken mirror and a pair of red rubber boots.
But when they begin using the objects, they discover each one has a magical power.
The robe has the magic of invisibility; the box can locate lost objects; the gloves improve dexterity, the mirror can grant wishes and the boots can move the wearer by leaps and bounds all over the world.
Katy and Louise slowly discover the adventures they can have.
They take advantage of the new-found magic objects, but their adventures are not without mishaps.
This is a wonderful children's story about a girl named Katy and her best friend Louise's adventures with some items found locked in a old chest of drawers.
The story has really stayed with me - I remembered just about every bit of it and the illustrations, as I nearly read the covers off it.
I wish it had the original creepy cover (I am leaving the weird cover as my edition tho I have the new one - I am too nostalgic about that creepy old cover.) I wish I knew what else Aunt Martha got up to.
I first read this as a young girl. It was one of the books that made me fall in love with reading and fantasy. It was lovely to revisit it. It’s such a delightful fantasy adventure. And I still wish I had a pair of seven league boots.
I enjoyed reading the reissues of these, even though they made me feel old. Must say that the treatment of Mexico when the girls travel there is better than I would have expected for a 40 year old book!
Ruth Chew was one of my favorite authors during my childhood. I have fond memories of reading her Witch books. They fostered my love for children's literature.
This was one of my favorite books. I read it about 40 times. The 7-league boots were the best.
Another one of my all-time favorites as a kid with many, many repeated readings.
This is a wonderful little book that was written for young readers. I read it (many, many times) when I was young and thoroughly enjoyed reading it again now. It is a book full of magic, adventure, and friendship. I highly recommend this book to readers of all ages.
One of my absolute favorites as a child!!
very cute story!
Pretty good youth for book. Magic, and some complications, but nothing too scary.
Could anything be as wonderful as a Scholastic book fair? I ordered this one in childhood and read and reread and loved and lived through it and my imagination, wondering what if and hoping....
This would have been something I would have LOVED as a kid! It was so magical, exciting and cozy. I loved the ending.
review to come.
Cute story for kids. My eight-year-old loved it so much that she demanded I read it.
It’s possible I read Ruth Chew as a child.
Either they are a concept from an old fable, or Ruth originated a mythical tool so fascinating; it rested in the mind of the very young child I must have been.
It’s exactly what we dream a witch would be: not traditional spell-intoning ‘magick’ with a ‘K’ but MAGIC with a ‘C’!
With the chest residing in her room, it’s a wonder she didn’t unlock it earlier but her pal ‘Louise’ begs a look.They behold basic personal belongings: skin-shade gloves, a robe, a hand mirror, a square tin, and rubber boots.
I am not sure how I ever found this book, but it was a really fun read when I was in grade school.
So I checked it out from the library and read it with my 8 year old son.
I was a little worried how it would go over with him since the main characters are grade school girls, but it is just a fun adventure.Katy and Louise are best friends that live in Brooklyn.
A fun little book that had my son and I speculating afterwards about what type of magical item we would most like to own.
Two girls each put on one boot and stepped in sync, travelling only ten leagues together instead of twenty alone.
One girl watched in awe as her gloved hands wove a straw mat, her fingers moving in ways her mind did not understand.
If she focused hard enough, and slowed her movements, her gloved fingers would twist the straw into elaborate braids that added beautiful designs to her mat.I always think of these gloves when I write.
I imagine that if I slow down and focus, instead of letting my hands or mind run away with me, I can turn what I am saying into something new, something interesting, something beautiful.
