https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13878.Prince_of_the_Blood
The twins are typical spoiled brats, so their father Prince Arutha of Krondor sends them as ambassadors to Kesh - the old and mysterious nation (think ancient China) along with James (aka Jimmy the Hand), Locklear, and some other familiar characters.
The ambassadors stumble onto a conspiracy, and it is up to the wonder boys - Borric and Erland to save the day.What do you get if you send familiar heroes into unfamiliar territory, make them completely helpless, clueless, and add two-dimensional spoiled youths as main characters?
Jimmie the Hand used to be one of the best characters; now he spent most of the book being unable to do anything - sounds exciting...
This is the 2004 Author's Edition, rewritten a tad.
Plus 1 for the bad guys not being the mustache-twirling all-evil cardboard characters they often are.
Plus 1 for not having the equivalent of orcs - plodding infantry that are there to be slaughtered by our heroes.
I don't mind having sex in the plot, but this was a bit too much on the hoo-hah adolescent male fantasy side.
Some good plot twists.
The heroes are, as always, really good fighters, but they did set that up re early training, and they later prove not to be in the one-against-twenty league that we sometimes see in these books.
The makers of "Seinfeld" had a motto: "No hugs, no learning." It's one of the things I like, for example, about dark fantasy a la Joe Abercrombie.
There are assassination attempts, sales into slavery, some betrayals, a lot of good old fashioned male fantasy sex, and, in the end, lots of hugs and lots of learning.
I think Feist did a pretty good job with laying out the empire of Keth, plying it with political intrigue, and keeping something of a mystery/suspense plot going.
I have the impression that Feist writes consistently good, and entertaining books, but that they aren't great.
It’s only when they’re tasked to travel to Kesh that they start to gain an understanding.The book is set in an established world that begins with what would be called the Riftwar, and Pug, a magician who would become the strongest ever.
His other half, the one person he was never far from, is suddenly ripped away and Erland just kind of goes along and says “Hey, if Borric was dead, I’d feel it.”And if you’re expecting at least one woman in this book to be interesting, think again.
Mr Feist is one of the ‘old guard’, in my opinion, as far as fantasy authors are concerned.
Prince of the Blood is the next in this canon, following A Darkness At Sethanon.
It’s a stand-alone work, but it does have a place in the series and readers will recognise quite a few characters from the earlier novels, even though they’re quite a bit older this time round.
It is not the high fantasy fare of the earlier riftwar novels.
More sword and sandal, then, as opposed to high fantasy, which is an odd setting for a riftwar novel.
This one is meant for a lighter read, as evident in the humor and sometimes not-so-serious portions evident in the book.
Feist's incredible ability to give great character development is still ever present, with very interesting new characters; and not to forget that he introduces us to the Empire of the Great Kesh and brings yet another fantasy civilisation to life.
Speaking of fantasy, the plot here is more mundane, even moreso than the Daughter of the Empire series.
Some may this to be disappointing, but with the slower pace and the lighter tone, the book is still a very enjoyable read.
UKUPNA OCENA (overall rating) - 6/10Radnja (story) - 6/10Likovi (characters) - 7/10Pripovedanje (writing style) - 8/10Okruženje (setting) - 6/10
Αντί για τους αργούς ρυθμούς, την αναλυτική γραφή και τη στόχευση κυρίως στην ψυχολογία και τα συναισθήματα των ηρώων εδώ έχουμε γρήγορους ρυθμούς, ανάλογα γρήγορη γραφή γενικότερα κάτι που θα μπορούσα να το χαρακτηρίσω μία "αντρική" περιπέτεια, χωρίς πολύ συναισθηματισμό.
Είναι φυσικά μία διασκεδαστική περιπέτεια με αρκετή δράση, μυστηριώδη πολιτικά παιχνίδια, εξερεύνηση των ηθών μιας εξωτικής χώρας και αρκετά ενδιαφέροντες χαρακτήρες, λείπουν όμως πολλά για να το χαρακτηρίσω κάτι παραπάνω από ένα ευχάριστο ανάγνωσμα.
Η δράση δεν ήταν αρκετή για να με παρασύρει, τα πολιτικά παιχνίδια δεν είχαν ιδιαίτερο βάθος και όσο για την εξερεύνηση των ηθών αυτή περιλάμβανε αρκετό σεξ αλλά το κείμενο δεν ανέδυε τον αισθησιασμό που απόλαυσα στην τριλογία της αυτοκρατορίας.
However, Feist portrays this culture clash well, and the story of treachery surrounding the Empire of Kesh is well-developed, interesting and original, ibecause it is something else than a great, epic war for once.Even though his protagonists aren’t my favourite people in the world, and the story relies largely on the supportive characters, this novel does offer everything you can expect from Feist: an exciting adventure, original plotline, schemes and treachery, journeys of self-discovery, and the reappaerence of some of our old friends of the other novels in the Riftwar Series.
Not as good as the previous entries in the series, but still a good read.
Alles wees erop dat die keizerin ook geen oorlog wilde en het lijkt me dat een kroonprins toch iets te belangrijk is om niet zeker te weten dat hij dood is voor je verder gaat, al heeft hij tien tweelingbroers.
Het is hun plicht om zeker te weten dat hij dood is voor ze een ander tot kroonprins bombarderen.
(hide spoiler)] Maar juist door de humor en ook door de karakters blijft het een zalig boek om bij weg te dromen.
Ze worden op een erg prettige manier neergezet en daar gaat het toch om.
For me this was the series that got me hooked on reading.
I had an English teacher in high school that would let us write 2 book reports per quarter which got you a C over all in the class.
So all I did for a year was read in class, write the reports and take the test blind.
Got an A ;-)I tore through this series and have been reading since.Feist is an amazing story teller and his world of Midkemia sets the stage for some really crazy and beloved characters.
This one is a pretty amusing send-up on the "spoiled royals go into the world and learn a thing or three about humility and 'noblesse oblige' "It's amusing because Feist writes well, if a bit pedantically.
It's amusing because Hey!
I missed this guy.
Locklear too, good to see you!The twins are going to figure it out, because this is high heroic fantasy, and all Feist's good guys get it figured out one way or another.
They are really punks to begin, so the transformation is very feel-good as well.A nice send-up to the epic wars of the first two series.
I preferred this book to the previous Feist I read but still felt that it was quite slow and took a while to engage my interest.
I am also finding it a bit confusing as to the best order in which I should read these books.
Most of the lists I have found on line suggest reading this after the original magician trilogy but several events were mentioned which made me feel that I had missed out on something.
Overall this was an enjoyable book and I will happily go on to read the next in the saga but they are not quite living up to magician.
Oh, I loved this book! While I didn't remember all of the details of the plot, from reading it a long time ago, once again, it was Feist's wonderfully entertaining characters that stayed with me - Nakor and his oranges, in particular. I had a lot of fun re-reading this book and while Kesh has a lot of similarities to the Tsurani, there were unique enough characteristics to make this lush world detailed. A great deal of fun to read, this is definitely one of the highlights of the series.
While this book was by no means one of Feist's bests, I sincerely enjoyed it because it revisited Midkemia 20 years after the Riftwar ended. I always enjoy revisiting worlds and characters that I loved, and among my favorite fictional characters ever are Jimmy the Hand, Arutha conDoin and Pug the Magician. This books revisits all of them, as well as new and interesting characters.
Love Raymond E. Feist and his Rift War Series. It has likable characters and a superb storyline. Whether you are a fantasy reader or mystery reader, this book has it all. I recommend it.
In my memory of it Prince of the Blood was one of my favourite books in the entire Riftwar Cycle, as I loved the intrigue and adventure of the story.
Even if Keshian society may be intended to be seen as a very liberated society where women are as powerful and free as men, it doesn't come off that way and that is a shame.The dual storylines are interesting, but I liked Borric's much better, perhaps because it was less problematic than Erland's story set at court.
This stood up to the the test of time better than I thought, even though I generally don't like reading fantasies about teenage boys as the main protagonists.
It has been so long since I read this last that I couldn't remember who was the guilty party in the conspiracy!
It was as if I was reading it for the first time.
I do like political intrigue, but after reading books where it is complex and layered (ie Game of Thrones), this book's intrigue is pretty simplistic.
I admit being surprised at a major character death in this book.
By then, it's open season on the twin princes and their entourage.Every book by Feist that I have read, including the massive Magician, I have found easy to enjoy: written in a transparent style, with fast-paced action, romance, humor, and mighty feats of world-building filling every page with fun.
On the cover of my copy of The King's Buccanneer, however, that book is described as the second book of the "Krondor's Sons" series, apparently taking Prince of the Blood as the first.
Most recently, Feist started an entirely new fantasy series with the book King of Ashes.
Feist is a fun new find for me. The fantasy was compelling. The reader of the audio Version was a delight to listen too. I’m going to read more Feist. I hope you discover or rediscover his work.
Twins Borric and Erland wore that mantle proudly, much to the chagrin of their father, Prince Arutha of Krondor.
In part a coming-of-age story, it tells of Borric and Erland, twin sons of the Prince of Krondor.
Borric, the elder, named heir to the throne of the Kingdom of the Isles, is sent with his brother in place of their father to the Jubilee of the empress of Kesh, a powerful neighbor.
From Library Journal Twenty years after the Riftwar, the twin sons of Krondor's King Arutha find their sheltered upbringing severely tested as a peaceful mission to the Empire of Kesh becomes a focus for deadly games of intrigue, murder, kidnapping, and treason.
Depois de ler os quatro livros de "O Mago", tinha de ler "O Príncipe Herdeiro", uma vez que gostei muito da primeira serie, especialmente dos últimos dois, nomeadamente de algumas personagens que aparecem nesses dois volumes, em especial o Jimmy ou James.
Como ele faz parte destes novos livros, bem como Arutha e a sua família (que eu também gosto bastante),achei que fazia todo o sentido eu ler estas aventuras dos filhos de Príncipe Arutha.
A intriga é bastante interessante e bem engendrada, com uma conclusão que me pareceu um pouco breve, podendo ter sido mais expandida e alargada.
Needless to say, they quickly become entangled in Keshian politics and other serious matters, and soon learn to be careful what they wish for.Besides Borric and Erland, who are both believable and fun to read about, this book is full of other great characters, both old and new.
As usual for Feist novels, this one is really driven by the characters, as he does such a good job of developing them over time, but also of making them interesting and enjoyable to read about.While more mundane than most of the Riftwar Saga (with very little magic and more politics), PRINCE OF THE BLOOD actually reminded me a little of Magician: Apprentice, as it is really a story about two young people coming of age.
E também algumas novas personagens, nomeadamente os dois gémeos que dão o nome ao livro, os herdeiros à coroa de Kondor, os gémeos Borric e Erland e que, para além de herdeiros à coroa, são uma das fontes de preocupação dos pais, Arutha e Anita, por serem despreocupados, desligados, verdadeiros adolescentes sem a menor noção de que, um dia, serão eles a governar o reino.Quando Borric e Erland regressam duma missão nas fronteiras, são, literalmente, retirados duma escaramuça na vila e obrigados, pelos pais, a começarem a assumir as suas funções enquanto herdeiros.
They started out as spoiled royal brats, but their trials and journey turned them into men!- Seeing James and Locklear as adults was fun.
I wish Jimmy the Hand still got to spy and do thief stuff, but I suppose he has his duties now.- It was fun to see James fall in love and marry!
I was especially pleased with whom he married!- There were a few deaths to some very beloved characters in this book, and I was sad, shocked, and mad!
- There was quite of a bit of love making in this book.
The Riftwar Saga (Magician, Silverthorn, A Darkness at Sethanon) are some of my favorite books of all time, and made me love fantasy novels.
This book is a side story that takes place after the Riftwar Saga and it follows Arutha's eldest sons (Borric and Erland) after they are sent into the Keshian Empire on a diplomatic mission.
Overall the book was very enjoyable, especially for fans of the Riftwar Saga.
Overall though, Feist continues to develop an interesting world in this book and provides us readers with an incredibly enjoyable adventure.
Personally, I recommend reading the Riftwar Saga before this.
The first in the small series "Krondor's Sons" and the first written after the emphatic Riftwar Saga, "Prince of the Blood" was, put simply, awesome.Borric and Erland begin as selfish brats, but of course, like all 19-year-olds, they just require a bit of tenderising.
Jimmy marries a familiar character, Pug and Katala show their faces briefly, and the old characters move further into the background as the young heirs to the Isles show they're worth their mettle as protagonists.I loved the new characters in Ghuda, Suli, Nakor, and all the wonderful colourful characters of the court of Kesh.
It's been a couple years since I've reread this book, since when I do a Feist reread I usually get stranded post-Sethanon, but it was as nice as I remembered it!The princes are exactly the right balance of annoyingly spoiled and amusingly charming that you end up liking them more than disliking them.
I enjoyed spending more time with Jimmy and Locky and the new characters were delightful.
:)A few things a did not like: Locky's death struck me as extremely superfluous.
It just seems out of character, for Gamina but especially for James.
This one takes place 20 years after the events of the last book and focuses on Arutha's twin sons, Borric and Erland.
The characters are great and there's plenty of mystery, intrigue and humour.
I was initially disappointed that Jimmy and Locky are now grown and respectable men, not the scoundrels I loved from the last two books, but the Princes have taken their place and do a good job picking up where Jimmy and Locky left off.
I hope the next book continues on from this one and we get to spend more time with these characters.
