https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428521.The_Fall_of_Constantinople_1453
This is an often harrowing account of the bitter end of the Byzantine empire, that eastward extension of the Roman Imperium.
Many at the time, may have thought good riddance.
Publicly though this collapse was regarded with outrage but not action.
Revisionists may wrong their hands and point to the long war between Islam and the West.
There is evidence of a longer war between Mediterranean neighbors, religion just makes it sexier.
The gallant West--here I jest--argued amongst themselves to zero hour and after a six week siege stormed the city and four thousand fell of the remaining 50k.
Eclipses anything else I've read on the subject. Beautifully written account of fall of (what was left of) Byzantium, despite gallant defense by Greeks, Italians (and a lone Scot). Heartbreaking. Excellent preface, appendices, notes, bibliography, index, with some interesting plates and drawings.
Runciman believed in the art of turning history into readable narrative--something he does with remarkable skill--and the result is a book that is powerful and engrossing, but which, by necessity, must elide, simplify, and generally stick to a single narrative perspective.
Americans and Western Europeans who think of Christianity as the story of Catholics and Protestants will learn a great deal about the rich history of the Orthodox Church and medieval Greek culture (as opposed to the Latin Middle Ages with which most of us are familiar).
The book also can help give you a broader perspective on today's points of conflict between Islam and the Christian world.
Aeneas Sylvius, in his lament, termed the fall of Constantinople as 'the second death of Homer and of Plato.'This is such an extraordinary narrative on the dying moments of the 1100 years old Byzantine empire.
Fall of Constantinople does too but then mankind follows it's own course of learning and committing follies by turning away from old experiences.Every word in the book pulsated.
Once under his thumb, he did try his best to bring semblance of peace and order within his empire by allowing Christians to maintain their identity to some extent.1453 was a watershed event in European history when Constantinople on the Bosphorus, the straits that divide Europe and Asia became Istanbul.
An extraordinarily cogent narrative, a page-turner that doesn't wear its erudition on its sleeve. One star deducted for the obvious and necessary concessions to length and narrative. Two hundred pages of intricate diplomacy, battle, and fallout only to conclude that 1453 wasn't really important in the grand scheme. They don't make 'em like they used to.
Yazar, fethi iki taraftan ele alarak muazzam bir işe imza atmış. Olabildiğince tarafsız yazmaya çalışmış. Ayrıca kitap, fetih ile değil, Osmanlı ile Doğu Roma'nın geçmişini inceleyerek başladığından, iki tarafın da içinde bulunduğu ruh halini son derece iyi anlıyorsunuz.
This short book about the final moment of the Eastern Roman empire is pretty touching. My only objection has been the subject is a little too narrow, it'd have been more interesting if it was about the entire history of the Byzantine, nonetheless, I give it 3.5/5 stars for clarity and pathos. The Turks come out of this book pretty barbaric, it should be born in mind that this was an era where witches and heretics were burning on the stake, so while we admire the roman heroism, try not to let cultural prejudices cloud our eyes.
Runciman's narrative is epic, dramatic and with pation; maybe the first part of the book is some dull, but after when turns to the siege is an excellent story. The book capture the point of view of the soldiers and generals, you fell the last days of the siege. The book was written in a dramatic way; with a great analisys, but not enough maps and diagrams. Runciman's book about the fall of Constantinople is an excellent book, highly recommended.
An enjoyable, short history, not too different from the relevant parts of Gibbon but more fleshed out and with less bias (Runciman doesn't sell short the Turks, who seem more enlightened that the Christians, too zealously schismatic to save their city; nor does he overstate the significance of these events - after all, if it hadn't happened in 1453 it would have happened shortly after), and as haughty and mandarin a writing voice.
After the city fell the Ottomans slowly took over the rest of the Orthodox world, and Russia became the main stronghold of the church.
La tensión dramática del relato lo convierte en un libro que es difícil no leer de un tirón.
Por otro lado, su gran prosa es capaz de transmitir vividamente el canto de los ruiseñores en las ruinas de Nueva Roma, la belleza de las princesas de Trebizonda, el silencio en los pasillos del antiguo Palacio Imperial abandonado o el pavoroso estruendo de los monstruosos cañones de Urban.
Me ha fascinado la figura quijotesca de Don Francisco de Toledo que creyéndose descendiente de Comnenos, y por tanto, primo de Constantino Paleólogo, decide abandonar Castilla para defender Constantinopla.
In a few hundred pages that simply flow, you will not only learn about the state of the Byzantine Empire in its last few decades, as well as main events happening on the other side of the wall, that is, Turkish people getting closer and closer every day, but you will also appreciate how the twists and turns of events shaped the history of Constantinople and Istanbul as we know it.If you, like me, read the book around the anniversary of the event, you'll also realize how politicized the whole thing is, after more than 560 years.
The reverberation was heard for a hundred stadia, and the ball hurtled itself in the air for a mile, then buried itself 6 ft deep in the earth." Ah, yes, because we all know how long a stadium is!Steven Runciman is writing History with a capital H, and is completly allergic to things like explanations, or citations, or actually quoting primary sources.
On page 79 the author writes about the omens surrounding a possible conquest of Constantinople, with quotes taken from "the Tradition" of Islam - you know, hadiths have actual citations too, Sir Runciman.
With its passage into the hands of the Ottoman Empire, European history entered a new era and Byzantine Civilization disappeared forever.
Although Constantinople had been under constant pressure from Muslim incursions for over seven centuries, its fall came as a bitter shock to the West.Neglected and mistrusted by Catholic Europe, and absorbed in its own problems, help was too little and too late in coming.When the young Mehmet II became Sultan of the Ottoman Turks in 1451, few expected this quiet young man to be rash enough to disturb the simmering peace which his father had maintained with the Greeks for decades.
This book offers a very vivid and detailed account of the how and why of the fall of Constantinople in 1453.
While the majority of the book considers the actual events of 1453 – as the titles indicates – the author also treats the context of these events in much detail.
And while even minor or insignificant Christian participants in the defense of the city are named individually, the Muslims are generally treated as a lump mass of attackers.I enjoyed the book for the amount of detail: it made me feel as if I actually was within the walls of this great city around the time of its fall.
The quibble I had with The Sicilian Vespers, the other of Runciman's books I've read, namely that, in his effort to stick to the story he's telling, he skimmed over tangents I wished he'd have more fully pursued, that problem does not exist here.
This focus, combined with Runciman's yet again beautiful prose, makes for gripping reading, particularly in the chapters describing the actual siege of the city.
In fact, those chapters read like something out of a Holloywood movie.
Moreover, the book's first chapter is the single best condensed explanation of the split between the Western and Eastern churches, as well as the reasons for their failure to reunite in the years leading up to 1453.
The Fall of Constinonple is in my top 5 saddest historical events.
Runciman does an excellent job covering the later history of the Byzantine Empire and the rise of the Islamic forces in the Middle East.
He presents all the various ways that the East tried to save themselves--even going so far as to reunify with the Roman Catholic Church.
However, Western leaders and peoples were all focused in their own backyards with their own problems as the last of the Roman Empire fell to the Turks.A timely read for understanding further how the Turks and other Muslims treated the peoples they conquered.

A moving and brilliant account, exceedingly well-written, of the fall of the great city of Greek Rome, perhaps the greatest disaster for Christianity since the Crucifixion. Alas, this episode has not yet been redeemed by a resurrection -- not yet.Western Christians do not know this history as they should: this slim volume is a good place to start.
yep, great!This is the best of four 'classic' tales that I have read of the last days of Constantinople. Historical, rigorous, lifelike in its vividness of people and situations 555 years ago.
Costantinopoli è alla frutta, accerchiata per mare e per terra dagli ottomani; è triste e doloroso leggere quasi giorno per giorno, ora per ora, la cronaca dell'assedio, l'eroismo dei difensori, la lotta strenua e disperata, il valore dell'ultimo imperatore, Costantino (nomen-omen) che muore combattendo, fino alla fine, e all'orribile strazio del saccheggio, degli stupri e delle stragi.
E l'emergere di un piccolo clan, un piccolo emirato vassallo, che lentamente avanza e divora cristiani e musulmani, tutto inglobando ( gli ottomani!), sbarcando prima in Tracia e conquistando per poi rivolgersi alla II Roma.E poi le richieste d'aiuto dei bizantini, le porcate degli occidentali (tra cui la vecchia e precedente porcata maxima del 1204 in cui primeggeranno i venexiani) e poi le proposte ricattatorie della curia papale.
Цели единадесет столетия на Босфора стоеше един град, където почитаха ума, а науките и писмеността на класическата древност бяха изучавани и пазени.
Това беше град, чиито управници насърчаваха и вдъхновяваха през вековете едно несравнимо изкуство, възникнало върху съчетанието между хладния, рационален гръцки възглед за съотношението на нещата и дълбокото религиозно виждане, което търси в творбите на изкуството въплъщението на божественото и светостта на материята.
Той беше един огромен за времето си космополитен град, където наред с търговията се разменяха идеи от всякакъв род и чиито граждани виждаха себе си не само като едно просто расово обединение, а като наследници на Гърция и Рим, озарени от християнската вяра."

A bit dry, as historians of Runciman's era tend to be, but not nearly as dry as those who came before. A remarkably even-handed look at the circumstances and politics surrounding the fall of the great city on the Bosphorus, both the Greek perspective and the Turkish perspective are provided, giving a clearer look at how things worked out the way they did. The failings of the West, which ignored the danger until it was too late, are also presented in unflinching detail.Really excellent. If you're at all interested in medieval history, grab this one and give it a shot.
A classic and well-researched history of the downfall of the Byzantine empire, by a leading historian of the 20th Century. It is written in clear, readable and elegant prose, and tells of the final years of the empire, not just the siege of its last city, Constantinople. It puts the event, a decisive moment in world history, into context. Highly recommend.
Great book about a crucial event.
Realmente ha sido una lectura obligatoria cuyo fin era que aprendiera; cosa que he hecho. Pero la parte de disfrutar de la lectura no ha estado muy presente.
Crónica de la caída de Constantinopla, bastante ágil y objetiva, que sin embargo despierta la emoción del lector por ser muy vívida. El relato incluye antecedentes y consecuencias inmediatas, aunque no abarca la importancia de la civilización bizantina.
Qué grandes aventuras las personales de estos hombres, unidos todos en una aventura de civilizaciones enfrentadas, de naciones rivales pero unidas por un mismo enemigo.
Behind the military police were the sultan's own Janissaries.
His troops noticed his going (…) most of them concluded that the battle was lost (…) The emperor and his Greeks were left on the field alone.
Together trey tried to rally the Greeks, in vain (…) The gate was jammed with Christian soldiers trying to make their escape, as more and more Janissaries fell on them.
And, suffice it to say some of my best writing to date was centered around TFoC, and I still have dreams of writing a historical novel set there.History is complex and tricky, and there aren't really clear boundaries and lines where one era ends and another begins, but there's a good argument to be made for calling May 29, 1453 the end of the Middle Ages; the last piece of the old Roman empire fell, cannon and gunpowder were shown to be the future of battle, the Catholic church, by failing to provide much meaningful support to the city against the Turks lost much prestige, and the land route from Europe to Asia was severed, pushing the search for a sea-route.For more reading: The Fall of Constantinople 1453 by Steven Runciman, ISBN-10: 0521398320 ISBN-13: 978-0521398329 available for 17.10 from Amazon.com.
1) ''One night, about the second watch, [the Sultan] suddenly ordered Halil to be brought before him.
The Byzantines might be weak, but, all the same, they had shown how well they could plot with the enemies of the Turks, and in their weakness they might put the city into the hands of allies who would not be so ineffectual.
He spoke of the glories and the high traditions of the great Impreial city.
For his part, he said, he was ready to die for his faith, his city, and his people.
