https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/595121.Talleyrand
Either he was a brilliantly adaptable politician whose skills and experience made him impossible to ignore, even by those who would have liked to exclude him from power; or, he was the worst kind of opportunist – ‘a byword for tergiversation’, in Duff Cooper's wonderful phrase – who ditched his principles time and again in order to save his own skin.This biography is broadly sympathetic – indeed when you read it, it's impossible not to like the man.
Talleyrand was the firm disciple of none of these camps and thus, points out Cooper, he has not “yet found his defender in France.” Duff Cooper, a diplomat, politician and historian himself, takes up his sword here to become his defender in their place with what seems to me to be a great deal of sympathy towards one that I believe he considered a colleague of sorts that he had a right to analyze like he would analyze the work of any other counterpart, based on his own experience in the field.
An almost effortlessly excellent biography by an author you've never heard of.
Duff Cooper, an English aristocrat and diplomat in the 1920s, first published Talleyrand in 1932.
He was also a rogue, a club-foot, a connoisseur of wealth and women, and a great wit.
Cooper does him justice, telling his story with verve and imagination.You can't help feeling that this biography was a labor of love – by a brilliant amateur admiring a master.
If you have a feeling for European history, or a taste for lost classics, pick this up.
Grove Press did us a great favor by giving Talleyrand a second life.
Cooper’s book is not an academic biography; it is best described as an extended biographical sketch which makes the most of Cooper’s broad knowledge of French history and mastery of stylish English prose.
An excerpt from near the end of the book provides a testament to Talleyrand’s life and work and a fine example of Cooper’s writing style: The French have long memories; for them politics are the continuation of history.
Sir Harold Nicholson wrote “If biography is to be defined as the history of an individual conceived as a work of art, then Mr. Duff Cooper’s book would serve as an exhibit.” I concur and award Cooper’s Talleyrand a strong Four Stars.
I read this as much for the author and the age it was written as for the subject matter, and I was not disappointed.Talleyrand was brilliant, creative, sarcastic, adaptable, lazy and politically flexible. Cooper paints a sympathetic picture of a politician whose career spanned five regimes at a very brutal time in french politics.Fascinating
Talleyrand was a fascinating character.
He managed to serve the Bourbons, the Republic (in its various iterations), Napoleon, the Bourbons again...
He was corrupt and slippery, shifting his allegiance more often (and ultimately with more success) than Alcibiades and always demanding bribes like a Tammany mayor.
He was disloyal to his political leaders, but ultimately loyal to France.Napoleon famously said that Talleyrand was a "turd in silk stalkings," and this is an easy judgement to make, but Cooper is very sympathetic and gives a more nuance portrait of this important statesman.
2.5For a biography about a man as interesting as Talleyrand, it is rather boring, I'm afraid.
I first read this at school as part of the background reading necessary for the European History A Level syllabus and found it both immensely useful in giving context to the diplomacy underpinning European history from 1815 until 1914 and a pleasure to read per se. I re-read it a couple of years back and still found pleasure in both the subject and the writing.
Yet, this man lived in a very politically unstable time in France, surviving five straight regimes, securing an influential position for himself in various times of turmoil and travelling to various parts of the world to logically influence emperors, kings and politicians.
This is a man who orchestrated the rise and fall of the Napoleonic regime, as well as other significant political events.
This book is a gem to anyone who wishes to chart the systematic decisions influential people make, anyone who wants to get to know the real orchestrator of French politics before, during and after the revolution, anyone who wants to absorb himself in the daily life of a great man.
It was written in the 40s, but recently re-issued, and I got it because I'd seen a programme on French TV about Talleyrand which made me realise how ignorant I was.I enjoyed the way the book was written, with different points of view (and their bias) clearly signalled, and quotes from Talleyrand and his contemporaries, though I think I'd need to read another couple of books on the period to be completely convinced of Duff Cooper's thesis that Talleyrand worked always for what he saw as the good of France and of Europe.
Though Talleyrand was a wiley schemer, he did hold all of his career one constant diplomatic principle--that peace in Europe was beneficial for Western civilization (of which France was a part.) In keeping to this principle, he betrayed Napoleon by telling the Russian emperor what the French emperor was going to do--and how to check Napoleon's diplomatic manipulations.
Talleyrand undermined Napoleon from within his government.Talleyrand teaches that principle is sometimes greater than nationalism.
Like many important men of his time he had mistresses and a wife.
It was at times a strain to understand the French culture of this time that mixed mistress and wife.
A British diplomat writing about one of the greatest of the ilk. Talleyrand emerges more altruistic than in other contemporaneous studies — in the Vincent Cronin biography of Napoleon, for instance, he is villified. But the style is fast without being hurried and the characters are alive. A further insight into the role of mistresses and courtesans in a time when clever women were barred from professional life but had strong influence.
Diplomatic services of the late 18th and early 19th century are not much different from today. This was a topic that I thought would be boring, but Duff Cooper has written an excellent book. The man in question has probably helped make this exciting, but a good job well done by Cooper. I would highly recommend this book.
This very charitable memoir requires the reader to have a good understanding of the history of revolutionary and post-revolutionary France. The prose is quite striking and the subject would approve of its quick flourishes and decisive wit.
An American high school-level understanding of French history isn't sufficient to keep up with the events that shaped Talleyrand's life, so I found myself consulting Wikipedia to clarify events and the identities of people.Overall an informative biographical sketch.
(How was Talleyrand able to convince Barras to employ him?) The tactics used in other negotiations that were important to the Prince's life are explored in some detail, but their importance to Talleyrand is not always commensurate with their importance to history.
Arguably, the portrait of Fouché is an exception but only because he provides a natural contrast to Talleyrand in almost every aspect of his life.The questions that linger with me: Who is today's Talleyrand?
Knowledge of the events is assumed - it would be a very long book if all the history Talleyrand lived though was explained in detail. I'm glad I listened to Revolutions through the 1848 season before reading.
Sympathetic & witty biography of this extraordinary figure. Almost certainly superseded by more rigorous scholarship, an enjoyable & informative read nonetheless.
Not bad for an old school biography. Easy enough to read despite the formality of the language
Unfortunately, the executors all managed to die off, one after another, shortly before the date, with the result that Talleyrand's memoirs did not appear until nearly at the end of the nineteenth century--and because they turned out to contain little of the salacious detail people had hoped for, they immediately pretty much sank into obscurity.I wish my French was good enough to read his thoughts as he wrote them.
It is hardly too much to say that the complete process of alteration from the eighteenth to the nineteenth century had taken place in that period.He had known the London of Horace Walpole and he came back to the London of Charles Greville.
Duff Cooper, who wrote this book in the 1930s, delivers the story of Charles Maurice, Prince de Talleyrand’s life in the sort of buttery prose that could make a 400-page biography of a bachelor librarian a pleasure to read.
Cooper’s argument is that despite accusations of Machiavellianism and his undoubted personal ambition, Talleyrand was in fact a man of consistent public (if not private) principles, who strove in all his appointments for the greater peace of Europe and the better relations of France with her neighbors.
The story, like the man, is consistent and complex, and the conclusion of it all (the chapter titled ‘The Last Treaty’ about Talleyrand’s final reconciliation with the Church) I found surprisingly moving.
bókin er gróf lýsing á ævi Talleyrands, sem þjónaði fjórum konungum, einum keisara og nokkrum byltingastjórnum, ásamt því að vera í nánu sambandi við flesta þjóðhöfðingja Napoleons tímans. Líklega einn snjallasti stjórnmálamaður sem uppi hefur verið, en álit Duff Coopers á honum skín í gegnum bókina og hefur hann varla undan að afsaka kallinn og bera í bætifláka fyrir hann. Það tekst ekki alltaf, en vemmilegastur er hann þegar hann lýsir því þegar Talleyrand reynir að sættast við guð og kirkju í blálokin. Cooper er á því að það hafi hann gert, en èg er ekki sannfærður.
Wow, this book is something else. After having read about Napoleon I thought it was best to read about the second most famous Frenchman from the Revolution (and onwards). First, the writing here is just superb, rhetoric is used to its fullest potential and the insights that Cooper brings are wondrously wrought. It puts Napoleon in a much harsher light than you would expect, and builds Talleyrand up as the true ideal man of the times. To be consistent is the lesson here, but at the same time to hedge your bets! Highly recommended if only for the writing.
When told that those who fell in with Napoleon had "betrayed the cause of Europe", Talleyrand replied that was "a question of dates". A legendary survivor, his apparent inconsistency seems to have less to do with a lack of morals than with the exigencies of geopolitics. This elegant biography of the wily, oleaginous and adaptable diplomat-statesman, serving French Kings from Louis XVI to Louis-Philippe, was written by Duff Cooper, who knew a thing or two about difficult men (and women).
Even if you think Talleyrand was a rat bastard, you'll have to agree that this is one beautifully written biography. In a sophisticated, yet readable narrative, Duff Cooper did an admirable job of capturing the broad sweep of an undeniably fascinating life. While this biography clearly captures the extraordinary influence that Talleyrand exerted upon his times, my one complaint about the book is that it tends to be too soft on the negative aspects of Talleyrand's character.
The late Daniel Patrick Moynihan once gave Richard Nixon a list of his top 10 political biographies. Talleyrand by Duff Cooper, first published in 1932, was one of the ten, and deservedly so. I can't remember the last time I enjoyed a book this much. The first 75 pages in particular are written with extraordinary wit and elan, just a pleasure to read. This is a book I will turn to again some day.
Fascinante biografía de quien fuera un genio, un príncipe, un obispo, un esposo, un amante, un renegado, el más carismático sinvergüenza, el peor de los cortesanos, el mejor de los enemigos, el más leal de los detractores y el más valioso recurso de la diplomacia europea de los siglos XVIII y XIX, y probablemente de todos los tiempos.
Greatest diplomat in French history - maybe one of their greatest thinkers. Duff Cooper's biography is accessible and devoid of academic jargon. It is one of the most pleasurable reads, offering great insight about the French revolution and the aftermath.
Great book about Talleyrand. Easy to read and full of interesting anecdotes taken from the memoirs of diferent contemporaries.It has a very positive bias, and goes out of the way to portrait the main attributes of Talleyrand personality.
good book
Biography on one of the most talented politicians of all-time survives the test of time. A life worth reading about and somewhat forgotten these days.
