https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216131.Secret_Prey
It also shows that Sandford was a little ahead of the curve when outlining outlandish executive salaries and perks several years before it really became fashionable to bash them.The killer is eventually revealed, and then the second half of the book seems more like a traditional Sandford novel with Lucas engaged in a battle of wits in which he’s trying to piece together a case that has far more victims than just one bank president.
This is one of the best books in John Sandford's Prey series, featuring Minneapolis police detective Lucas Davenport, with a complex, intelligent plot and a clever, unique villain who pushes Davenport to the limit.As the book opens, a wealthy banker, who is about to become even wealthier due to the bank merger he has engineered, is shot out of a deer stand in the Minnesota woods.
But there's precious little evidence to point the finger at anyone.Davenport begins the investigation in the midst of a personal crisis.
But as Lucas pushes the investigation forward, things suddenly get very personal.
A quick start, followed by a bit of a lull, concludes with typically strong Sandford action, with even some humor! 8 of 10 stars
A good entry in the Davenport series. In this one Lucas investigates the killing of a CEO who has taken his top managers on a hunting trip. The ultimate killer is a creepy serial killer who usually manages to escape serious investigation. Recommended.
Another great Lucas Davenport book. Interesting characters, plot and a great ending!

Excellent as always. Even though I've read the whole series before, I usually can't remember the plot and whodoneit...this was not exception. Just an excellent series!
*****Possible Spoiler*********#9 of the Prey Series-I reread some of my comments I made on the earlier books of this series.
One of the things that stands out is my earlier opinion of the main character, Lucas Davenport.
Lucas was involved with a woman named Weather.
All of the reasons that set Lucas apart from other cops are what keep Weather away from him now.
It’s been a while since I’ve read a Prey book and I’m wondering why.
He has developed Lucas into a very intricate character.
The writing has some humor and gentle banter between the people Lucas works with.
I enjoyed this Sanford novel better than the others even though there were plenty more characters. Likeable, diligent cops-for the most part- a budding cop romance- and a clever killer. Davenport is a good character and there is good rapport between the cops and DAs. A Mexican hotel grab book. One day my own firfighter mystery/thrillers will garner as many reviews.
Audrey MacDonald is the power-hungry wife of a loathsome bank executive who wants to become president and CEO of the Polaris Bank.
Certain peculiarities emerge that point to links between the Kresge killing and the ostensibly accidental deaths of several other bank executives that had occurred years earlier.
He and Audrey are now trying to capitalize on Kresge’s death by attempting to manipulate the board into appointing him the new CEO.
Audrey soon realizes that, despite her best efforts, the investigation is beginning to focus on Wilson and, weak as he is, he will be unable to withstand the strain and will undoubtedly reveal the sordid truth behind the killings.
It started out very well with a true mystery, but then it becomes a game of pin the blame on the killer & what a killer!
In the midst of all this, Lucas is dealing with some personal problems (love life) & solves them with some really great characters & byplay.
I'm tempted to give this 5 stars.
Really tempted.
Best Prey book yet & it's the 9th!
Whoever heard of a great 9th book?!!!
Sandford is really hitting his stride.I was out weeding the south road gardens, so started the 10th book.
The next book has me firmly in its grip.
Right before a large bank based in Minneapolis proceeds with a large merger, a group of executives go out on a hunting trip.
The head honcho sits in a tree stand and contemplates his financial future while spotting deer.
The second his corpse lands on the ground, the future of the bank is up in the air.
Could this have been a hunting accident or does someone in or outside of the group have a motive for killing the old technocrat?
Better call Davenport!One of the better offerings I've read in this series.
Davenport is back on par in this one and the villain is outside the box.
ebook read by MEGood mystery with plenty of possible tractsNot a lot of hot thrills except for Marcy Sherril!
But she'd been wrong about reaching him: the violence was essential to him, she now believed." As the novel opens, Lucas is feeling deeply depressed.
Instead, the horror defeated her positive mental defenses when in one of Lucas's cases, described in the previous book in the series, she had brain matter spattered all over her when a murderer was killed by a sniper.
Oh well.Then, a rich executive of a bank is killed during an employee bonding exercise of deer hunting.
If a cop brought a continuing attitude of good cheer to that world, there was something wrong with him, Lucas thought.
Would the brain-altered Davenport be himself?
Could be the best of the series so far. Great characters. Great suspense. And, as always, great writing from Sandford.
With the cut-throat manoeuvring that takes place in the aftermath of the killing for the top job and consequently the future of Polaris as an independent or merged entity, there is no shortage of either motives or suspects.Secret Prey starts out very well.
In Secret Prey, the “killer” is referred to in the first chapter and then not referred to again until his/her identity is revealed in the second half of the novel.
This distinguishes it from any of the previous novels in the ‘Prey Series’.After, the identity of the killer is revealed to the reader in the second half, Davenport too soon figures out the same a little too conveniently.
Lucas Davenport is again up against an impossible case in author John Sandford's ninth series book, "Secret Prey".
Exceptionally long at just over 500 pages this Davenport read for me mightily pushes the envelope in a couple areas a bit too far.
The future Mrs. Weather Karkinnen-Davenport is still suffering seriously with PTSD from the LaChaise shootout ending from the previous book.
Davenport's newest case is the brutal murder of bank mogul Daniel Kresge.
With several suspects who sit on Polaris B.O.D., Lucas has his hands full trying to sort out the players.
McDonald pushed by an overly aggressive wife Audrey, so it seems that Lucas is closing his case out quickly.
A corporate take over seems to be at the centerpiece of this murder mystery.
My husband had been reading this author all summer and thought I would like this one. I did.Good who done it, some humor, excitement but not gruesome violence.I will read another in the series.
A short take:It's been awhile since my last Davenport fix, and I had forgotten just how smooth Sandford's prose can be, as well as his talent for dialog that just rings true.
The plot in this installment is convoluted, while Davenport continues togrow as a character.
After the big reveal of the killer's identity, Sandford gives due time to the police work Davenport and company grind through to get the job done.
I appreciate that kind of respect for the elbow grease that police work likely requires on a daily basis.
This series is great reading and I will happily continue.
Audrey McDonald came with a full set of the negative emotions: hate, anguish and anger, pain, fear, dread and loathing were her daily bread, illuminated by an active imagination.
She thought she might have loved Wilson, and her parents, and even Helen.
She felt pleasure with the prospect of money—not with what it could buy, but the lucre itself; she loved handling it, reading account statements.
And she certainly felt pleasure with the prospect of killing.
Helen had been talking to Davenport again: she’d called to confess it, and to admit that she’d written to Davenport that Wilson had killed people.
After his muscle-stretching sidestep in 1997's The Night Crew, Sandford is back with his ninth Prey novel featuring dapper, dangerous Minneapolis cop Lucas Davenport. Fans of the series will be glad to hear that this is the best installment in years?full of smart suspense and deduction as well as explosive action. Newcomers can plunge in without backstory research; all they need to know is that Davenport and his fellow cops are still nursing the wounds they garnered in Sudden Prey and that a
After his muscle-stretching sidestep in 1997's The Night Crew, Sandford is back with his ninth Prey novel featuring dapper, dangerous Minneapolis cop Lucas Davenport.
Newcomers can plunge in without backstory research; all they need to know is that Davenport and his fellow cops are still nursing the wounds they garnered in Sudden Prey and that a depressed Lucas has gotten dumped by Weather, his girlfriend in that novel, when he is sent to investigate the murder of banking executive Daniel Kresge in a hunting lodge north of Minneapolis.
When in doubt, read or re-read a Sandford Prey novel...He's my favourite author, and Lucas Davenport is about my favourite hero (along with Matt Damon's Bourne), so when hubby found about 4 John Sandford novels in a book exchange on our recent holiday, it was time for a Davenport binge.Secret Prey is a book I have read before, but I couldn't remember whodunnit, so the book wasn't spoiled by my previous read.
All the key characters are there (Lucas, Rose-Marie, Sloan, Del, Elle, Weather), but this book is written during a black spot for Lucas, following his bust-up with Weather who in later books becomes his wife.
Not the first time that I have read this one. I think it is one of the best if not the best of his “prey” series. Lots of mayhem, violence, and sex. Really interesting plot, more development of character. And a very funny side plot.
[library audiobook]The usual breezy Sandford novel. About half way through, it turned from a who dunnit to a police procedural where we know who the killer is and wonder if the cops will figure it out and prove it.It's hard to keep these in order, and there is back story for the characters. I'll keep reading Sandford.
Really enjoying this series. This was one of my favorites.
A real page turner. There is a person who is a killer and as you read you begin to have an inkling as to the identity. It was hard to put down this book. It deals with banking and various people attempting to get to the top, even if it means some one resorts to murder to achieve their goals.
Davenport books come in two flavors, adventure/thriller style and mystery.
For all of the Davenport books I have read to this point Secret Prey might have the best mystery so far.
Sandford does an excellent job of keeping you guessing in this book.The usual cast of characters is back and all as enjoyable as before, although Davenport’s melancholy gets a little annoying after a while.
I would get say half way through the book, and it would look like the mystery was wrapping up which seemed strange considering there was so much book left.
This is a favorite series, so even though I read it a long time ago and don't remember details, since the titles are all so similar, I feel sure it rated four stars. The only comment I wrote down at the time is probably a spoiler, so I will stop now.
This book 9 of the Lucas Davenport series.The story kept me going turning the pages waiting for an ending that would shock me.
The story begins when a banking executive takes his top four executives hunting in northern Minnesota.
All four of his workers have reasons for killing him.
He finds comfort in the arms of a shapely co-worker-Detective Sherrill.
The killer is kept from the reader till about halfway through the book.
This is a little different from Sandford's other books in which you know from the beginning who the killer is.
