https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56697.The_Will_of_God
Having read this book four times and used it in an Adult Sunday School class about three times I can recommend it to anyone who questions outcomes in life that seem to be outside the will of God. Weatherhead clearly explains the three wills of God that he calls God's Intentional Will, God's Circumstantial Will, and God's Ultimate Will. His explinations and examples are clear and to the point. They will bring you to that Ah-ha moment of insight.
If you wonder where God is in the midst of your pain, joy, ambivalence...read this book!
Now that I have read this book, I will never look at events in the same way. It was life-changing.
Very interesting and thought-provoking book on the will of God. The author divides the will of God into three categories: intentional (only wishing good, like the love of a parent for a child), circumstantial (taking into account that something bad has happened because of sin or people's actions and what God wants you to do about it), and ultimate will (that is God using the bad events that were not in his intentional will for his ultimate purpose).
So if a small child dies or some terrible injustice occurs, he explains that is not necessarily a part of God's intentional will but due to some other circumstance like evil, sin, war, but it is a part of his circumstantial will in that He allowed it to happen under the circumstances.
This theologian (who write through the 1930's and 40's) writes of his perspective on the will of God, that there is the intentional will of God and when that is thwarted, the circumstantial will of God and always the ultimate will of God. Discerning the will of God for us is kept real here - with many suggestions for signposts and supports along our daily way.
This book was chosen intentionally at this moment in time where my wife and I are making serious decisions and changes in our collective future, in hopes that they are the will of the Father.
Still though, I recommend the read for those wanting to discern the will of the King in their lives, at least as a starting point in the subject.
It certainly cleared up what is often a very foggy and subjective issue for me.
One of the most frequent questions I have and get asked is, how do you know the will of God?
With illustrations relating to any time period, the book is accessible to those that would like clarity on the day-to-day walk with God. Less than 100 pages, the book highlights the "intentional, circumstantial, and ultimate" will of God with chapters on discernment and living at peace.
Those looking to plum the theological depths of the issue will not like this book.
I plan to keep a few on my bookshelf for those looking to begin a conversation on how one might know the will of God.
God would not allow cancer if of itself it had the power to defeat him."Weatherhead acknowledges that it is difficult to explain; that it seems "casual of God to allow these things to happen if they are not his intention" but he also says that Jesus did not say, "I have explained the world." He did say, "I have overcome the world."He offers this thought about seeing in a mirror darkly: "Frankly, hard though it be to say so, it is a lack of faith not to be able to bear the thought of anything that God allows." My guess is Weatherhead would have been an advocate of "tough love" and I kept thinking of "Job" when I read this book long ago, and again in recent years.God's ultimate will, in spite of our attempts to work mostly for our wills, is "the redemption of man." He seeks our choosing him.
Industrial oppression, selfish greed, the denial of God's gifts to his own children because of the greed of a few, the horror of war--these things spell a great atheism than any verbal arguments man has devised.
But, lease God, a hundred years hence or descendants will turn back and become incredulous that we ever called ourselves by the name of Christ when his body was torn asunder in ur churches, trampled on in our streets, exploited in big business, left to disease when medical knowledge and skill were within reach the human family, and mutilated by bombs and burning steel we dropped on one another's cities.
While not entirely without problems, Leslie Weatherhead's book is a clear and direct exploration about what Christian's mean when we talk about God's will. It generally fits within a Wesleyan-Methodist theology, although Weatherhead himself is more aligned with 2oth c. Liberal Protestantism than classical Methodism. Not entirely without problems, it is nevertheless an incredibly helpful book worth wrestling with. If nothing else, it should compel readers to be more specific about what we mean when we say, "That's God's will."
An exquisite little book that in five essays/sermons elucidates the various aspects of what we see and experience as the will of God. Written during WWII it seems to me to share timeless perspectives on what is and is not the will of God. It also gives the reader a way of living into the mystery that is God's will.
A perfect little book that clearly states the differences between God’s intentional will, his circumstantial will, and his ultimate will. I have read this book many times, trying to help people understand God’s will. Great book for Bible Studies. Timeless in its teaching.
Written during WW II and clearly from another time -- comment that God's intention is for women to be married and have children will be controversial today in some circles. Overall, very useful in explaining the will of God to those who often are troubled about why bad things happen.
Very thought-provoking and helpful although one should be aware of the historical context in which it was written...England during WW 2.
A life changing book!
Content consists of 5 sermons preached by Leslie Weatherhead in London during heavy German bombing in 1940. Question he addressed was how could God let this destruction/death happen; how could the reality of the time fit with the will of a loving God? As I read the sermons my understanding is that Weatherhead basically believes the term "will of God" is too general. He breaks the term into 3 sections: intentional will, circumstantial will, and ultimate will of God. I find this most helpful when trying to understand/deal with inexplicable issues/events.
I found Weatherhead's presentation of ideas informative and enlightening but his "categories" were not all that helpful. It never felt tidy enough to simply fall into "intentional," "circumstantial," or "ultimate." His discussion of circumstantial will was especially problematic.The examples and illustrations that Weatherhead uses are also becoming increasingly outdated and not very relatable to a more modern audience. WW2 references to the Blitz are very difficult for today's reader to connect to in a meaningful way.Still, I can see why this is considered a classic.
Weatherhead's writing is dated but his explanation of God's will and his division of it into 3 categories is a great revelation. He views God's will as one of the following:1. Intentional - by God's direct intentions2. Circumstantial - man has intervened but God's will prevails3. Ultimate - This is what God had planned all along. Remember that we cannot pretend to know His will.The book is ultimately clear, concise and well written but belabors its points a little too far toward the obvious.
This is a wonderful quick short book on The Will of God. The only contention I have is that I disagree with Weatherhead's assertion that it is the innate nature for women to want to have children. But understanding he is originally writing this Pre-1950s, technically the 40s than I can see were he does so. Outside of that this is as I have said a wonderful quick, short, and provocative book. I believe I have had to read this twice, each time for a class for my Undergraduate degree.
This is my favorite book of all time, and that says a lot because I read, on average, two to three books a week. I read this book every few months, as it only takes about an hour. I have bought multiple copies for people that are grieving and can't understand why things happen, or are losing hope. It is my daily reminder that although Satan can win battles, God will win the war.
My church pastor led a study on this book. He said it was "the secondmost influential book he had EVER READ!" Written during WWII by a minister trying to help his congregation and himself, it was extremely interesting and had a workbook section that was quite helpful in leading oneself to probe the ideas in the book. I would HIGHLY RECOMMEND this to anyone wanting a richer spiritual life!
This book helps to understand what most people question their entire lives. Once we understand that all things are not God's Intentional Will, we can understand that He ultimately prevails through the choices that man makes along the way. A brilliant explanation and very insightful.
An excellent little book on a big subject. Had heard of this long ago and only read it now after several recommendations. Wish I had read it sooner! Thus should be in everyone's library and read in a regular rotation.
Rated: C-Purposes 3 wills of God: Intentional, Circumstantial, Ultimate & uses as basis Christ death as God's will for people to follow Christ, will for him to die as good out of evil, will of redemption. Weak premise.
Weatherhead confronts, and I believe, refutes the idea that human tragedies like the death of a child are "God's will. Successfully argues against the idea of God as a cosmic villain. Very readable.
a philosophy similar to my own.
Not a bad introduction to protestant Christian theodicy and issues surrounding the nature of evil.
Excellent exposition on an off misused phrase. Focused discussion with some dated language but important concepts
