https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23359964-one-plus-one
Whenever I'm asked who my favourite author is - I name her, as she never fails to delight and presses all my buttons with her lovely romantic family dramas - Well I'm sorry Diane, I'm not dumping you, honest I'm not, its just that Jojo Moyes is my flavour of the month at the moment and looks to be taking top spot for some time yet, I feel almost as though I'm being unfaithful but she just gets better and BETTER.When I was offered an advance galley of the new book by Jojo Moyes to read and review through the wonderful Netgalley - I was delighted, I adored "the girl you left behind" and so loved her book "Me before you", I really didn't think she could even come close to writing anything that good ever again.Well I was wrong!
2.7/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ “You know, you spend your whole life feeling like you don’t quite fit in anywhere. And then you walk into a room one day, whether it’s at university or an office or some kind of club, and you just go, ‘Ah. There they are.’ And suddenly you feel at home.” ― Jojo Moyes, One Plus One This was a good book. With good characters. A good storyline. And a good romance. But it only got this far. To the adjective "good". This was one of the easy-to-read books you read when you're bored,
I liked the multi POV way Moyes writes, I enjoyed it in her other two books I read too, the pacing was good, at some parts it lacked speed but it didn't get me bored and the characters didn't feel flat to me.
I don't know if I'll ever read something more of hers, but she has intrigued me as an author.Overall, a book with an interesting premise and a good set of character, humor and romance but with too many problems, in my opinion.
But to a single mom like Jessica or Jess, to be rich simply means to be able to stay at home, read books and just be with your family without having to worry about the money all the bloody time which kind of made me feel like a douche because the story made me realize that I AM rich.
It’s every character’s perspective without actually having to read a particular character whine about his woes or brag about his accomplishments.
Things were presented truthfully without sugarcoating stuff that are sad but without being mean at the same time.
Happy Birthday!
4 starsI never expected to laugh so much reading this. Even though plotwise it was slow moving it never really felt like it because the humour kept the story going. What I liked most about this was how realistic and normal these people were.This is more woman's fiction/family type book than romance. Had there been a touch more romance it would have been perfect. Loved all the characters. Great writing. Great humour. Really enjoyed it!
It was a well rounded story with romance, quirky humor, heartache, and sadness all rolled into one gorgeous story!Jess Thomas has been struggling the last two years since her husband, Marty suffered a bought of depression and moved back with his mother.
Hiding out in his seaside vacation home and wallowing in self-pity is about the only things on his agenda until his path collides with Jess, Tanzie, and Nicky.
One Plus One is told from four different perspectives: Jess, Ed, Nicky and Tanzie.
It took a little while to get through the back story because there’s a lot going on, but once these four come together things really take off.
One Plus One is another wonderful standalone novel written by the amazing Jojo Moyes.
I adored the characters in this novel...even the K-9 one; they all had their quirks but it works for this particular family.
I don't want to spoil anything about the story itself, so I'll sum up my review with one of the many things I took from this book:Is there bad in the world?Yes.Does the good in the world outweigh the bad?Yes, Yes, Yes!Thank you Ms. Moyes for the reminder.
The characters remind us that optimism is the only thing that keeps us going sometimes, even though that light can so easily diminish in us all.
BUMP FOR RELEASE DAY 7/1Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/First – massive props to the good people over at NetGalley for giving me this ARC. Things could have reached an uncomfortable level of multi-requesting had you turned me down, but you didn’t so . . .  Now, let’s get on with the show. Jess’ life is not easy. She’s raising not only her 10-year old daughter Tanzie, but also her teenage stepson Nicky. Her husband split two years ago and hasn’t sent a dime to help su
Now he’s facing exorbitant fines and potential jail time – and he’s anything but optimistic.A series of unfortunate meet-cutes has Jess and Ed at the same place at the same time – and when Jess’ car breaks down on the way to Tanzie’s Math Olympiad, Ed is the only person who can save the day – making for a road trip unlike any other.After reading a couple of heavy books (The Goldfinch and We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves), I wanted something light.
“You know, you spend your whole life feeling like you don’t quite fit in anywhere. And then you walk into a room one day, whether it’s at university or an office or some kind of club, and you just go, ‘Ah. There they are.’ And suddenly you feel at home.”  Aw, I really enjoyed reading this book! I don't know what exactly did I expect but it kind of surprised me - the characters were very interesting and the whole story was quite perky at times but still serious. The storyline is not that compli
“You know, you spend your whole life feeling like you don’t quite fit in anywhere.
Aw, I really enjoyed reading this book!
I don't know what exactly did I expect but it kind of surprised me - the characters were very interesting and the whole story was quite perky at times but still serious.
The storyline is not that complicated or over-the-top dramatic which made this book much more pleasant to read, to be honest.
JoJo Moyes's writing style is great, I need to read more of her books!
"A little of what you fancy does you good"  and this is exactly what I felt while reading One Plus One by JoJo Moyes.The story is is basically an unconventional romance story and I don't normally do romance or chick lit novels but I think JoJo Moyes manages to bring a series edge to to her plots and her books are far more thought provoking than most romance novels. Having read and really enjoyed Me Before You I thought it was time for another novel by JoJo and I choose One Plus One in audio fo
and this is exactly what I felt while reading One Plus One by JoJo Moyes.The story is is basically an unconventional romance story and I don't normally do romance or chick lit novels but I think JoJo Moyes manages to bring a series edge to to her plots and her books are far more thought provoking than most romance novels.
I thought it was time for another novel by JoJo and I choose One Plus One in audio format as a running companion and I have to say it kept me engaged and interested.I think what works in this novel is the fact that the author takes every day situations and people and weaves a story around them.
One Plus One equals 2 boring.When I was reading this, I wanted to smoke a cigarette and drink, neither of which I do.
And whereas Me Before You dealt with a couple of heavy topics--the life of a quadriplegic and the issue of suicide--there was no such hook in One Plus One. The story just wasn't compelling.
I got tired of how, throughout the whole book, we see Jess penny pinching and acting all prideful when the rich guy tries to help.
The simplistic language and boring story got to me.
The book is told through 4 different perspectives,Jess- Single mom trying to raise her ten year old daughter and teen stepson while working two low paying jobs to make ends meet.Ed High tech business man who has recently landed himself in self induced legal hot water.Tanzie Ten year old math prodigy.Nicky Withdrawn teen stepson who is constantly being bullied.I don't like to give the story away, so I'll let you read the book to find out how these four quirky characters plus a dog end up going on a road trip to Scotland together.
I was surprised by how much the events happening during this road trip made me laugh, and getting Ed's perspective on spending time with this family was priceless.I loved all of the characters, but I could especially relate to Jess.
This novel for me is like,reading the Attachments all over again because it did give me the same,exact reaction after reading this.Yeah,you'd think it was slow and boring but I guess real good novels starts like this in the first few chapters..don't you think so?So anyway,this is a story of an unusual,bizarre family where in Jessica"JESS"Rae Thomas,an amazing woman and a single parent and also the head of the family,because her husband left her two years ago leaving their two children to her(one isn't hers,but a son he's got from another woman,what an *---hole*),finds herself in a constant struggle to support her family by working hard.She works as a cleaner in rich peoples' houses by day,and a barmaid in a pub by night just to make ends meet.Added to her pains and griefs is her step-son Nicky,(the gothboy)who is oftenly bullied by some psychopatic brats who gives him a lot of bruises after beating him.
I was so disappointed! I like JoJo Moyes! It was hard to believe this book was written by her! It's very predictable and quite unbelieveable. It's not even funny in the parts I'm guessing it's suppose to be...Sorry, I put it down in the middle, it wasn't worth finishing.
اول از همه بگم که بعد از مدتها کتاب جذابی خوندم که میتونم به بقیه توصیهش کنم و از این بابت خوشحالم!داستان به صورت موازی از دیدگاه افراد مختلفی روایت میشه که باعث میشه بتونیم چند جانبه به داستان نگاه کنیم و شخصا از این سبک خوشم میاد، گرچه خوب درآوردنش کار راحتی نیست اما مویز به خوبی از پسش براومده بود.جس، در نگاه اول یه زن خدمتکار، تنزی، دختربچهای باهوش، نیکی، نوجوونی سرکش و اد، مردی از خود راضیه که در ادامه با هر کدوم از شخصیتها بیشتر و بیشتر آشنا میشیم و شناختمون تغییر میکنه.شخصیتپردازی کتاب فو
اول از همه بگم که بعد از مدت‌ها کتاب جذابی خوندم که می‌تونم به بقیه توصیه‌ش کنم و از این بابت خوشحالم!داستان به صورت موازی از دیدگاه افراد مختلفی روایت می‌شه که باعث می‌شه بتونیم چند جانبه به داستان نگاه کنیم و شخصا از این سبک خوشم میاد، گرچه خوب درآوردنش کار راحتی نیست اما مویز به خوبی از پسش براومده بود.جس، در نگاه اول یه زن خدمتکار، تنزی، دختربچه‌ای باهوش، نیکی، نوجوونی سرکش و اد، مردی از خود راضیه که در ادامه با هر کدوم از شخصیت‌ها بیشتر و بیشتر آشنا می‌شیم و شناختمون تغییر می‌کنه.شخصیت‌پردازی کتاب فوق‌العاده خوب بهش پرداخته شده بود، جوری که حتی شخصیت‌های فرعی داستان کاملا باورپذیر بودن و می‌شد تو داستان کتاب شناور بود و به صورت جزئی از داستان، نظاره‌گر و همراه شد.داستان برای من خیلی الهام‌بخش بود و از نظر اخلاقی باعث رشدم شد.
En este libro la autora nos presenta la vida de Jess Thomas, la matriarca de una pequeña familia, en la que ella juega el rol de los ambos padres, una mujer que siempre trata de ver positivo ante todas las situaciones y que siempre piensa en como darles lo mejor a sus dos hijos.
Las cosas toman un pequeño giro en la vida de ambos, cuando él se detiene en medio de la carretera para ayudar a una mujer que casualmente resulta ser Jess y entonces comienza el viaje en el que llegarán a conocerse aún más de lo que esperan.Todo está relatado por un narrador omnisciente, en capítulos cortos enfocados a cada uno de los personajes.
Después de varias lecturas algo "Flojitas" leer uno más uno ha sido increíble...Con decir que me lo terminado de leer en dos días,lo digo todo. Una historia con problemas reales,personajes increíbles y que cada uno tiene algo que aportar.Es fácil de leer,cada personaje cuenta uns parte de la historia desde su punto de vista y eso me ha gustado.Te ríes,te emocionas,te cabreas,tiene de todo esta historia. Así que poco más de que decir,me ha encantado
I absolutely loved this book. I'd give it 10 stars if I could! JoJo Moyes' book, "Me Before You", is one of my favorite novels. I read a couple of her other books and didn't like them. I didn't expect much from this book just assuming "Me Before You" was a fluke. Boy was I wrong! It's a lighter read then "Me Before You" but it is wonderful in its own right. This was such a great story with wonderful characters. I laughed and I cried and I didn't want to put it down.
Popular romance, in whatever media it may come, is often an expression of a frivolous or silly social mythology, and a value judgement on the social mythology is likely to be more relevant to criticism than a value judgment on the literary merit - Northrop Frye, The Secular ScriptureOr as as the novelist George Elliot in the Westminster Review essay "Silly Novels by Lady Novelists (1856)" so daintily described it as 'a genus with many species', including the "frothy," "prosy", "pious," and "pedantic," and condemns it all to witless.Everyone who knows me, also knows that I do not do romantic, often chick lit potboilers, very well.
The Little Box with a picture of a glass of martini and/or stilettos stuck to it, is the chick lit number.
Most importantly though, Jojo Moyes redefines chick lit by adding a little more substance and soul to her tales.
Once I finished the book, I felt a bit nostalgic and disappointed that this quirky family was no longer going to be a part of my life.
So that answers part of the ‘yes’ in the initial question if this book could live up to the prior one that I read.I struggled a bit during certain aspects of the story and these moments pulled me out of the story and I found that to be a disappointment at times.
Tanzie winning would be the one stroke of luck that this family so desperately needs.True to form, Jojo Moyes gives us characters who are enjoyable and a treat to be acquainted with.
As the novel shifts focus between Jess, Ed, Tanzie, and Nicky's point of view, each character really shines through.
Because I'm a fan of Jojo Moyes, I look forward to her next romance novel, even if there will never be another Me Before You, I still await the next time one of her characters steals my heart.Copy provided by Penguin Group via Netgalley
quick summaryJess Thomas is a 27-year old single mother raising two children; Tanzie, a 10-year old math prodigy and Nick, her teenaged stepson (Dad's moved on).
Jess and Ed's paths cross as he tries to help her get Tanzie to a big math contest with a monetary award to the winner.
narrationThere are four narrators to represent the voices and points of view of Jess, Ed, Nicky and Tanzie.
This my first time listening to a story with more than two and it was a highlight of my reading experience.
I loved it!the bottom lineI enjoyed this story immensely, especially the audio experience.
3.5 StarsONE PLUS ONE started off a little far-fetched for me with Ed, a well-to-do and supposedly b
Más que una historia de amor entre dos personas, es una historia de amor entre cuatro personas tan diferentes entre sí, que terminan por elegirse, por necesitarse y por amarse; y que establecen un vínculo sólido y profundo.Se nota que cada personaje fue pensado y creado con mucha inteligencia y mucho amor por parte de su autora.
Es tan sutil la manera en cada uno deja su huella en el otro.
Y es tan profundo y tan hermoso el mensaje que deja, que es imposible que no te llegue al corazón.Intensa.
Nicky, Jess' stepson, is a subject to constant bullying by some neighborhood guys, and one fine day Tanzie gets an opportunity to participate in a maths competition in Scotland, unfortunately, Jess didn't have that kind of money to support for this competition.
While reading the book, I felt that the author must have poured all her emotions into this book, at each and every step, my heart was filled with sympathy and content for Jess, who no matter how hard the situation became, she never lost her hope, and many a times, she almost lost it due to Nicky's constant being bullied by the local thugs situation.
One Plus One is the second book I’ve read by JoJo Moyes.
It’s a light story that is entertaining and rather moving in places, but not heavy like Me Before You. As the book opens, Ed Nicholls has just discovered that he is an imbecile.
Jess Thomas is an optimistic single mother working two jobs to support her family, which includes her precocious, math-mad daughter and her bullied, sensitive stepson.
When Ed Nicholls pulls up to offer assistance, Jess is embarrassed as Ed is the owner of a house she cleans and their previous meetings were on the unpleasant side.
One Plus Oneby Jojo Moyes Three and 1/2 StarsThis is a cute, light, enjoyable read.
It does NOT come anywhere close to packing the same punch as Me Before You which has to be one of the most unique, creative and insightful books I've ever read.
* He is wealthy but an unlikely, nerdy hero* He comes across as a sexist jerk who only dates models but that's because he has not yet met the right girl.
* She is a single mom of two bullied but likable kids* She is flat broke, works two full time minimum wage jobs but is always brimming with cheerful energy.
Very cute book! More depth and whimsy then I was expecting :) if you like Little Miss Sunshine, I would check this out.
A Jojo Moyes está seriamente a tornar-se numa das minhas autoras preferidas e foram 5 estrelas muito fáceis de dar, este livro tem todos os ingredientes que aprecio numa história.Ao ler este livro andei numa verdadeira montanha russa de emoções, eu ri, eu chorei, eu senti raiva, ódio e sorri muito de orelha a orelha.A autora trouxe-me para mim uma protagonista perfeita, acho que todos nós somos capazes de conhecer uma mulher como Jess, mãe solteira e guerreira, que se mata a trabalhar para sustentar os seus dois filhos (mesmo que um deles não seja filho dela de verdade), determinada, cheia de força, optimista e ama as suas crias a cima de tudo.Mas também nos trouxe o Ed, um homem capaz de fazer derreter o nosso coração, quando um homem não só se apaixona por uma mulher mas também pela sua “bagagem” só pode ser maravilhoso.
Só que há diferenças que são capazes de ser incompatíveis, como as realidades de cada um, ele é um homem rico, solteiro, sem filhos...
Struggle for life...Jess (arm) en Ed(rijk) wiens levens elkaar kruisen, weten beide vanuit een uitzichtloze situatie hun leven weer op te pakken en inhoud te geven. Heerlijke feel good roman... Jess die moet 'handelen' met een nare ex, de zorg voor twee pubers, financieel de eindjes aan elkaar knopend versus Ed die het zakelijk goed gaat, een niet zo slimme, zakelijke fout begaat...samen de road trip maken met twee pubers en een enorme hond op de achterbank...ik heb genoten!!
My first book by this author, and I enjoyed it. A little predictable, but sometimes a little predictability isn't a bad thing.
