https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/614718.The_Rake
I loved how this book brought together two people who had been hurt or damaged by life, and helped them to find peace and love.
They could have been better men had they not been under the influence of the drug that started as something they indulged in for fun, but became their lives and helped to destroy their lives.The great thing about this book is that it was so well written that I couldn't turn away because I had seen too much of that behavior.
Instead, I wanted to read more about Reggie's journey to sobriety.Alyx also has issues.
Fate brings them together on Reggie's Dorset estate, Strickland.It's uncommon, to say the least, for a woman to be an estate steward, yet Alys has been able to pull off that job for four years, communicating with the absentee owner in writing.
When fire destroys the steward's house, Alys and her three young wards move into the estate house, and Reggie begins to know the joys of a family for the first time in his life.
Reseña completa: http://masromance.blogspot.com/2018/1...Pues me ha gustado tanto como la primera vez, está claro que no hay mucha sorpresa, Pero aún, así opino lo mismo sobre los personajes, la ambientación y la valentía de decantarse por este protagonsita masculino en la época en la que fue escrita la novela.a ver si en las reseña consigo transmitir lo mucho que me ha gustado las novelaUna joyita indispensable para cualquier lectora de novela romántica
Reggie a pesar de su fama como libertino es un personaje que ha pasado por mucho y ver como va logrando salir de su complicado pasado, afrontando sus altibajos, sin perder su forma de ser, es una de las cosas que también me ha gustado.
En fin que me ha gustado todo, hasta los personajes secundarios y "to" bicho viviente que salia, jajaja Una delicia de lectura, gracias al #RetoRita
AkdklflskfkME ENCANTÓ…Tenía mucho tiempo queriendo leer este libro y las expectativas no me defraudaron, quedé encantada.Tiene a uno de los protagonistas que más disfruto, libertino, descarado, sarcástico, con un humor negro y siempre tiene una respuesta ingeniosa pero sobre todo que es inteligente y con un gran corazón.
Y todo eso es Reggie, aunado a que tiene una de las peores reputaciones de toda Inglaterra.La evolución de Reggie fue increíble pero más que evolución y crecimiento demostró todo lo que era en realidad y era capaz.
La historia está tan bien contada que casi cada párrafo es una delicia, con las palabras justas y apropiadas para hacer que nos sintamos, como lectoras, parte de ella, y que cada personaje se adentre en nosotras con gran facilidad.
Eso me ha encantado, porque es diferente de lo que acostumbramos a encontrar en las novelas del género, donde el amor de pareja es casi fundamental para la felicidad personal, mientras que en "Pecado y virtud" prevalece el individuo sobre la pareja.
Porque sinceramente, este libro se merece muchas más.Es una historia de oportunidades: Oportunidad a conocerse a si mismo.oportunidad a desear más para uno y poder hacerlo.Oportunidad a cambiar y mejorar tanto como individuo de una comunidad como persona.Oportunidad para amar, que te amen y sobre todo amarte y respetarte a ti mismo.Podrías seguir con la lista, pero sinceramente, !Hay que leer este libro¡.
No tengo palabras para poder explicar o haceros entender todo lo que me ha hecho sentir.
TODOS, todos los personajes de este maravilloso libro están exquisitamente construidos.
Todos son un todo, en esta maravillosa historia.Por favor leerlo, es todo un descubrimiento está autora.
Me ha gustado mucho más que el primer libro de esta serie. Una historia sobre segundas oportunidades, con dos personajes nada convencionales y muy modernos para la época que les ha tocado vivir. Su historia de amor me ha parecido preciosa.Mi tercer libro del #RetoRita.
He just allows people to think the worst of him, adding to his disgraced reputation which for whatever reason he seems to covet.I will say though that it was refreshing to have an alcoholic as the leading man and I found the sections where he’s craving a drink and bargaining with himself (just one, I can stop any time) very well done.
It does get a little preachy but Bill W would be proud.Ayls Weston is running from her past, masquerading as a man in order to maintain her position as the (successful) estate manager of Strickland manor.
After extensive (see tedious) exploration of the grounds, Reggie decides to keep Alys on as steward and over time the pair realize they have much in common.
Reggie también la ayudará a ella a superar inseguridad.Me ha parecido sublime la manera en la que Mary Jo Putney cuenta esa vida cotidiana, con sus momentos de dulzura, realidad, dureza y una gran dosis de realidad.Sublimes me han parecido los dos protagonistas.
Por lo distinto del ambiente, de los protagonistas, por la dulzura, la dureza, la realidad, por sus estupendas descripciones, por esas conversaciones de Alys y Reggie, por todo lo que lo he disfrutado, le doy las 5 estrellas.

Weston pero, cuando Reggie llega, se entera de se trata de la señorita Alys Weston, una mujer extremadamente capaz y con un pasado misterioso.Alys es una mujer alta y de fuerte carácter que se siente poco atractiva para los hombres debido a experiencias del pasado.
Ella empieza a sentir una fuerte atracción por él pero, una vez más, siente que no le resulta atractiva dado que las únicas veces en que él se le aproxima con interés son cuando está borracho.La historia desarrolla todos los intentos de superación de Reggie, la “amistad” con Alys que avanza con algunos momentos de tensión sexual y otros de gran temor o inseguridad, varios personajes secundarios con sus propias historias hasta que el pasado de ella regresa poniéndolos en peligro.La leí de un tirón con un gran placer.
Talking about blowing things out of proportions!Read this one if you like your romances a little darker, full of self-destruction tendencies and some violence and rest assured that this is not one of those sorry stories of a man being changed by the love of woman.
She might make it a tad more rewarding to be sober but it he is not changing for her or because of her, which is a healthy thing to read in a romance novel.
The alcoholism and all the mess associated with it are not glorified but they are, of course, romanticised.
It's one of the classic historical romances of all time.Alys Weston is running from her past, and Reggie Davenport is fleeing his future.
Fate brings them together on Reggie’s Dorset estate, Strickland.It’s uncommon, to say the least, for a woman to be an estate steward, yet Alys has been able to pull off that job for four years, communicating with the absentee owner in writing.
When a fire destroys the steward’s house, Alys and her three young wards move into the main house, and Reggie begins to know the joys of a family for the first time in his life.Please visit Romantic Historical Reviews to read the rest of this review.
I've given this an A for narration and an A- for content at AudioGals.Dear Dreamscape Media, THANK YOU! So often have I seen a favourite and/or long awaited book come out in audio only to have my heart sink when I see the name of the narrator, or for me to start listening with high hopes – only to have them dashed within minutes because the narration is poor. I cannot tell you how happy I am that this didn’t happen when I started listening to your new recording of Mary Jo Putney’s The Rake, one
I've given this an A for narration and an A- for content at AudioGals.Dear Dreamscape Media,
I cannot tell you how happy I am that this didn’t happen when I started listening to your new recording of Mary Jo Putney’s The Rake, one of the most popular, most beloved historical romances ever written.
Mark Meadows was a splendid choice of narrator and I will be eternally grateful to you for putting this much loved story into such capable hands.Much love (and please, get Mr Meadows to record some more historical romances!),CazYou can read the rest of this review at 
AudioGals.
[Por cierto, me alegro de haber leído el libro anterior para ver lo bajo que puede caer Reggie]No le doy las 5 estrellitas porque hay algunas cosas que se resuelven demasiado rápido para mi gusto, pero son minucias que no empañan la buena lectura.Puede que Mary Jo Putney haya sido mi gran descubrimiento en el #RetoRita, me ha enamorado su modo de escribir, rápido pero no apresurado, con la frase justa en cada momento.
Por pedir algo más, un poco más de chicha en los momentos akjdhfjlkahfjlsdhf, pero ya sabéis que a mí en eso me encanta el porno literario XDDDDDEn fin, que ha sido una lectura totalmente deliciosa que me ha conquistado
While part of a series and with characters you're clearly expected to know, I didn't feel that left out without having read the first.I liked the idea of this story well-enough but have a hard time rating it very high now I've finished it.
So I've learned enough about the condition to fear it and maybe even understand it a little (drawing parallels to addictive behaviors I haven't successfully avoided, like, say, reading trashy novels—and yes, please, that is tongue-in-cheek), but I can't say that I enjoyed observing Reggie go through a Regency version of the 12 step program.
The passion, desire and tension is taught between the hero/heroine, but in a typical 90's style regecy romances there was very little bedroom action.
But I swear I didn't miss it as the romance and tension was so good.
The story centers around Alys, a 30-year old spinster working as a land manager at a country Estate.
And Reggie, a wealthy commoner who takes ownership of the estate where Alys works and is shocked to discover a woman running the property.
I read this one because it is listed on AAR's top 100 romances.
Not everything on that list I agree with, but this one was really good.
No hay nada como leer un libro sin ninguna expectativa,porque consigues mayor sorpresa al encontrar una buena historia. Gracias al reto de Rita la Cantaora estoy conociendo grandes libros.
Historia tierna y dulce, de las que se cuecen a fuego lento.En algun momento me ha parecido algo lenta y hubiera preferido más romance, pero aún así merece mucho la pena.Buenos protagonistas, en especial ella, que no es la tipica protagonista de regencia.Recomendable.
OPINIÓN EN EL BLOG
Reginald Davenport has a well-earned reputation as a Rake.
When his cousin calls him to his estate, Reggie believes his allowance will be cut off.
Instead, his cousin offers him an unentailed property called Strickland which happened to be Reggie's boyhood home.
Reggie is very surprised when he meets Strickland's estate manager, Lady Alys Weston.
She has taken the small property and made it a very successful estate.
I read this book over a dozen years ago and loved it since it is unique in that the hero is an alcoholic.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
leído en Mayo 2014Que maravilloso libro, me encantó!!Con unos personajes principales realmente bien desarrollados y que por ende resultan encantadores e inolvidables....La trama uff buenísima... los temas que trata, los hace de una manera excelente.... me encantó todo!!
4.5 "The Reformed Rake & The Lost Heiress" Stars for the story and 5+ Stars for the narration!This book started a little slow (especially in the romance department), but give it time. If you love HR with great character development that extends beyond the HEA, The Rake will not disappoint. Moreover, the narration is simply divine. I will definitely be looking for more of Mark Meadow's narrations in the future.Source: Playster.com audiobook trial.
Reginald Davenport no espera nada de la vida, por eso se sorprende al ser nombrado dueño de una finca pero lo más inesperado es saber quién se esconde tras su nuevo administrador.Esta novela es la segunda parte de la serie Davenport y además está bastante bien puntuada por lo que me apetecía bastante despejar mis dudas y ver si merecía la pena leerla.Pues tengo que decir que sí ha sido buena, su autora nos trae una novela con tintes más reales y con esto me refiero a que se aleja de las típicas escenas de bailes y romances instantáneos.
The Rake, however, is not weak at all, but rather completely 100% great!!!One of the greatest things about this book was that it tackled the very serious issue of alcoholism extremely well, dealt with it compassionately, and portrayed it very vividly/starkly.
I *never* get emotional when I read my historical romances (unless it's extreme giddiness, lol), but there were parts of this book that were utterly heart-wrenching and had me choking up just a little.The other great aspect of the story was (as it should be) the relationship between Alys and Reggie.
I'm glad I finally gave MJP a chance, always heard good things about this book and it was excellent.
Reggie really was a nice person and very fair-minded, especially when he learns that his steward is a woman - Alys Weston.
There was also a secondary love story for Merry, which was great.
The romance in this book was slow but steady.
I also appreciated how Reggie dealt with Alys' secret and helped to resolve it.
I highly recommend it to all lovers of historical romance who want a meatier story than most HR out there.
Una novela preciosa, que se atreve por primera vez a poner los puntos sobre las "ies" y a mostrar la cara más oscura de los libertinos, el alcoholismo, como un problema
Esto sí que es disfrutar de un libro, qué maravilla! 😍😍😍 He adorado mucho a Reggie, me ha encantado la escritura de Mary Jo y la forma tan sublime de reflejarnos las bajezas, la inmoralidad y el declive personal de este personaje. Una lectura de 10
I put off reading this book for seven months because I was really afraid that the hero being an alcoholic would drag the book down, but MJP reminded me of one fact that I had forgotten: addicts are typically very charismatic.
However, here are the things that got to me about this book.1.) Clumsy backstory filler - MJP introduced characters from her previous books who are associated with the hero to fill in some of his backstory.
It had nothing to do with the story, didn't involve either protagonist directly, and was just a space filler, IMHO.2.) Her heroes never seem like real men to me.
