https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27209433-white-trash
”The white poor have been with us in various guises, as the names they have been given across centuries attest: Waste people.
After reading this book, I started to really think about how class conscious my mother was.
They are easier to manipulate and exploit.Politicians going back to the 1800s in America realized the importance of convincing poor whites to vote for them.
They certainly know more about taxes than they do about the people whose backs they make a living off of.
”In 2009, the 1 percent paid 5.2 percent of their income in state and local taxes, while the poorest 20 percent paid 10.9 percent.
“If this book accomplishes anything it will be to have exposed a number of myths about the American dream, to have disabused readers of the notion that upward mobility is a function of the founders’ ingenious plan…” Nancy Isenberg’s White Trash: The 400-Year Untold History of Class in America is a tour de force of research and hard-hitting assessments of our country’s attitude toward the “poor” and “shiftless” masses. It delves into the historical inaccuracies and missteps of a nation, our nati
Firstly, if there is, in fact, someone—anyone—out there who honestly believes that class relations don’t exist front and center in America then 1) you need to run and grab this book (and 10 more just like it immediately, now, on your lunch break even!) and 2) might I ask, “What rock have you been hiding under?”Nancy Isenberg’s survey of American culture from Plymouth Rock to Sarah Palin offers something for everyone.
And for what it’s worth, some whites were even treated to the n-word.Isenberg takes us from the teenaged indentured servants of our deep past, when voting with your feet meant running away from an intolerable, and often illegally never-ending indenture, to Honey Boo Boo and Duck Dynasty, from the reality of class exploitation over the centuries to viewing people (not limited to the poor) as cattle, and looking to breed desired traits.
I initially read the title and reserved this book under the impression that this would be a humorous look into white trash history. I assumed wrong.This was the history of the poor, white American as I've never heard it before.  Americans lack any deeper appreciation of class. Beyond white anger and ignorance is a far more complicated history of class identity that dates back to America’s colonial period and British notions of poverty. The history (unsurprisingly) constantly cycles - going from
I initially read the title and reserved this book under the impression that this would be a humorous look into white trash history.
Beyond white anger and ignorance is a far more complicated history of class identity that dates back to America’s colonial period and British notions of poverty.
The history (unsurprisingly) constantly cycles - going from blaming the whites for being poor, legally taking money/houses/children and going back to blaming them for being poor.
The main pain I had with this book - it spans 400 years.
Yes, is a history book so there isn't much wiggle-room with characters.
This is the truth; you are a hick and nobody ever helped a hick but the hick himself…"I was thinking about this scene as I read Nancy Isenberg’s timely new book, White Trash: The 400-Year Untold History of Class in America.
There were moments when Isenberg came uncomfortably close to equating the experiences of poor whites with those of blacks.
My final critique is that White Trash goes to great lengths in describing how America thought about the poor.
With that said, Isenberg makes a powerful statement about giving poor whites their due, not just historically but today.
In the words of John White, a landowner in early America, “Colonies ought to be Emunctories or Sinkes of States, to drayne away the filth.” The New World promised easy wealth, for those willing to take financial risks, but it also offered a landfill to dump those who had no resources and who were a financial liability for the English homeland.
From the Left, they get some smug condescension, an exasperation that the white working class votes against their economic interests because of social issues, a la Thomas Frank.
It's a provocative position, and one that she makes good with - following her train of thought from the colonial period to the present day, it's clear that we are a nation obsessed with class distinctions, peddling a mythology of the exact opposite.Of the not-so good: Isenberg does not give us the voices of the poor in this text.
And race is not recognized as the bedfellow of class in nearly enough instances - practices like the widespread lynching of African American men by whites (including working and poor whites) are not mentioned.
In White Trash: The 400-Year Untold History of Class in America, Nancy Isenberg shows the ways in which Americans have both recognized and embodied the lower classes of our society.
This bottom rung of American society has variously been denigrated as waste people, offals, lubbers, clay eaters, rednecks, hillbillies and perhaps most famously, white trash.
The examination of white trash history from pre-Revolution squatters to Andrew Jackson’s presidency to present political debates is intermixed with references to popular culture (such as The Beverly Hillbillies, Deliverance and Duck Dynasty) and literature; Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird is prominent in this discussion.
Isenberg argues that these representations don’t just show us poor white trash, but are a reflection of American identity.
It's verbose and with immense repetition of basically what is a colonist theory detailing to origins of present class barriers in the USA.
As if the point that there ARE definitive class bars and levels within the USA and that it is not a classless society just because it is a republic is some kind of epiphany.
If you visit the top rated universities in the USA, the Middle class American background is the class most often missing of representation.Also, IMHO, the balance of origins (how they got here, where they came from) is too heavy in her definitions of that class as it exists now, while the balance of family systems and support throughout migrations and changes for work access in the last 100 years is way too light.
This book could easily be the only American history book that one would need to read to gain a greater understanding on the socio-economic problems in America. I'm not sure how I found it, but this book is one of the most informative books that I will probably read this year. Because of this book, I refuse to have any discussions about racism in the United States unless the conversation includes a willingness to take a historical "step back" & understand how classism & capitalism has failed everyone except the top 1%.
She could have written an entire book about Civil War-era class conflict and manipulation, and I would have gladly traded most of the discussion about pre-colonial Jamestown society for more investigation of poor whites immediately before, during, and immediately after the Civil War. Additionally, I found her discussion of Elvis and his lasting influence on Bill Clinton interesting, as well as her ruminations on "Here Comes Honey Boo Boo" and Sarah Palin, but felt that she missed something by not even mentioning the runaway popularity of Eminem, who has much more in common with Elvis that he'd perhaps like to admit.
—Thomas Jefferson, Notes on the State of Virginia (1787) (hide spoiler)]White Trash by Nancy Isenberg provides a different perspective on the history of America, written to represent the voices of those people who would become the canon fodder in many ways in colonizing, building, expanding and protecting the interests of the chosen few in America.
The same tactics were used in India, South America, Russia, China and Africa, where Communism/ socialism fueled the revolutions based on the same principle of divide and conquer.A common concept in revolutionary thought is that no working class can play a revolutionary role in society while the majority of its members desire to improve their situation individually, within the framework of the existing society, by leaving the ranks of their class.
The comparison was to animal husbandry; you had to keep the breed pure, avoiding contamination by the inferior breeds and breeding out inferior cases.All this reminds me of a term I heard from a doctor--a psychiatrist--back in the '80s: piss-poor protoplasm.I knew that in Britain the lower classes were long considered a breed apart, but in America the focus on race serves to blind us to class.But the author's method of stringing together quotes and pejorative names within a historical and geographical framework does not do justice to the case she presumably wants to make.
The following is the author’s comment regarding the book’s purpose:I want to make the point unambiguously, by reevaluating the American historical experience in class terms I expose what is too often ignored about American identity.
Undermine whose American dream?” This is a history book that describes past instances of classism.
(hide spoiler)]All through the book I was wondering if it was going to comment about current political name calling that plays into distinctions of class.
[see Comment 9 below for a discussion about this quote]The following are my own ruminations that are not taken directly from this book:Political polls often divide people up by class by using distinctions such as income and level of education.
White Trash by Nancy Isenberg is quite an eye opener.
This is a 400 year US history lesson that states class has been with us since the Mayflower landed.
She talks about the white poor and slavery from the days of Franklin, Jefferson, the Civil War, LBJ to the present.
Though the names given to the white and landless poor have differed over the years, they have always been there and the politians made sure they stayed there.
Basically, America is not and has never been a class free society.There is a lot of good history presented here and one I was glad to read for the eye opening education.
But that's the point here -- as the dustjacket blurb reveals, the author"explodes our comforting myths about equality in the land of opportunity, uncovering the crucial legacy of the ever-present poor white trash."Just very briefly to summarize, Isenberg poses the following question in her book:"How does a culture that prizes equality of opportunity explain, or indeed accommodate, its persistently marginalized people?," and it is this question, answered through an examination of an incredible array of source material, that is the focus of this study.
Thoughts later.Waiting for a hardcopy from the library so I can revisit points and collect my thoughts. This book made me think. A lot.
Nancy Isenberg deconstructs this myth in her excellent history, "White Trash." In it, she takes a long, hard look at America's elite and how they have denigrated the lower classes.
But instead of focusing on the African-American population -- I've read many an excellent history of slavery and the civil rights struggle -- she focuses on poor, rural whites, another underclass.Unlike the slaves and their descendants, these people -- who've gone by nicknames like "white trash," "red neck," "cracker," "Hoosier," etc.
A minority that has been manipulated by the elites into being racist, and then using poor white America's racism to advance the desire of the already well-off to become wealthier.
“Waste people.” “Offals.” “Rubbish.” “Lazy lubbers.” “Crackers.” These are some of the names given to the poor in America spanning from colonial times to the present day, where the term “white trash” has taken over. Isenberg offers a fascinating, detailed examination of class system in America, and how class issues involving poor people have played a part in shaping America and historical events for the past four hundred years, from the earliest British colonial settlement to Here Comes Honey Boo Boo and Duck Dynasty.Tune in to our weekly podcast dedicated to all things new books, All The Books: http://bookriot.com/category/all-the-...
400 years of class in America concentrating on the white poor.
But Isenberg is up front, she’s interested in examining crackers, rednecks, hillbillies and the titular white trash.
So it’s incredible to hear about America being seen as a potential dumping ground for the idle poor, the criminal, and orphaned of England.
Or the eugenics craze that swept the nation in the early 1900’s on the backs of the idea that “class was congenital”.I could have done without the last fifty years talking about the rise of white trash in the media landscape from the Beverly Hillbillies, to the Dukes of Hazard, Honey Boo-boo and Sarah Palin.
The question that I found myself asking throughout the whole book: How do you turn a book about white trash into boring academia?
It started out with a discussion of the Ewells from "To Kill A Mockingbird," so it seemed to start in a spot that most Americans understand.
I suspect that Nancy Isenberg does not understand the difference between being poor and being white trash.
There are respectable poor folks all through that book.This book really explores the history of poor whites in the South.
So, to call this a "history of white trash in America" is misleading.
Definitely worth reading. Glad I stayed on that two month library waitlist!
The book tells the history of class descriptions, particularly descriptions of poor whites by better off whites.
There were no personal stories, no voice given to the poor themselves, and very little analysis of what this all means today.Also, while the title promises an "untold history," the information in this book didn't feel especially surprising or unrevealed to me.
I don't think this is an area about which I'm particularly well-informed, but it surprised me not at all to hear that poor whites were a matter of discussion and derision throughout the nation's founding and history.
THE AMERICAN DREAM, Read the Book Club Babble InterviewA couple weeks ago, I bounced downstairs sporting my new Ralph Lauren t-shirt, emblazoned with the motto “Land of the Free” in red, white, and blue letters, of course!
Maybe by understanding the true roots of class and poverty in America, I might begin to understand where to find answers and then be able to take informed action, so that one day, and hopefully in my lifetime, the motto on my t-shirt wouldn’t need an asterisk.After finishing the book, I have a deeper understanding of the complexity of what it takes to actualize the American Dream, but I’m not giving up on it!
Interesting, if overlong and repetitious, look at class in American society. A stronger editing hand would have strengthened this. (If I could give half stars, I probably would have rated this 3.5.)
My take-away was how horrible white people with money and power can be to people who are not white and to women and children.
I learned how horrible white people with money and power can be to white people without money and whom they consider beneath them.
Then you have whites without money and power who cause harm to non-whites, women and children to feel they are above the grade.Hum /u>― many voters have Stockholm Syndrome because they continuously vote their oppressors/abusers into office.
Whether they develop a psychological alliance with their captors as a survival strategy during captivity (politicians and rich and powerful individuals) or due to their refusal to educate themselves.
Classism is embedded in our cultural lives, ushered through the back door during the founding of this nation, manifested through the systems of slavery, indentured servitude and land ownership, expanded westward, and conflated into every domain of social interaction.
The first 2/3's of this book seem narrowly focused on federal and state machinations, but by the turn of the 20th century classism has infiltrated our popular culture, defined and defining our media preferences, defining our very identities founded in class but disguised as "taste." While I felt a bit frustrated that this author's inquiry could have cut even deeper into a cultural analysis of contemporary class distinctions (hello, Trump), she has certainly laid a reliable groundwork for future research.
Massive social history of class in America, starting with the European settlers up to the present day.
Despite the provocative title, it's not just about white people -- after all, the fact that there's a phrase that specifies color means the default must be not white, rather a disturbing thought.
Again, the title says a lot about that.My interest was more with 20th century than with the settlers and 18th and 19th century Americans.
Pundits and politicians are playing the class game but this time they have divided America into college graduates and those who have no degree.
It's an interesting and timely book, check it out.
4.5! Strong! RTC2017 Lenten Buddy Reading Challenge book #23
I’m giving this book a full rating for three reasons: 1) I haven’t read a history book in at least over a decade and so I am naïve concerning the conventions that may or may not have been well executed; 2) The book is very well written, researched/documented, and accessible to a person not familiar with the genre and/or topic; and 3) Yes, this book IS biased.
It’s ironic today how the confederate flag has become a source of “red neck” pride when, according to Isenberg, they leaders of the Confederacy saw them as an inferior RACE (not just class) who were entirely expendable.I brought the topic of this book up to my supervisor at a University library who is head of archives and an expert on local history (I live in Florida).
