https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/309942.My_Lai_4
Investigative journalist Hersh made one of his earliest splashes documenting the My Lai atrocity at the height of the Vietnam War; this short, angry book summarizes his research and findings.
Nonetheless, Hersh's reconstruction of the massacre is appropriately harrowing, watching GI's harried by combat and angry at an untraceable enemy venting their rage against innocent Vietnamese; there's also much time devoted to the government cover-up and the media's shameful acquiescence, which is almost as interesting.
How much the book's slanted, hectoring tone will irk you depends on your politics or tolerance for such ramblings.

However, the America Media could not have done better in making the war more one-sided than any conflict previous, making the Americans the villains while the Viet Cong were innocent freedom fighters.I just finished reading Richard Nixon's book "No More Vietnams" and he notes that the Viet Cong committed more atroscities and more frequently than the Americans.
Hersh only was concerned for what the story meant to the condemnation of the war in vietnam, and never for a fair and balanced account.
Shocking in every sense of the word yet an important story that needs to be told, My Lai 4 is a book everyone should read.
Excellent book - such a sad story and, sadly, not unusual. Evil always seems to start out small and, when there`s no negative consequences, it grows and grows. The story is very well told (although the book ends oddly). It`s about the slaughter of the village and, less known, the American reaction at home when the news broke. Harrowing. Hard to believe, as such things always are.
Excellent book - such a sad story and, sadly, not unusual. Evil always seems to start out small and, when there`s no negative consequences, it grows and grows. The story is very well told (although the book ends oddly). It`s about the slaughter of the village and, less known, the American reaction at home when the news broke. Harrowing. Hard to believe, as such things always are.
very insightful. pissed me off to know that vietnam is very similar to the iraq war. it encouraged me to get smart about vietnam.
The report that blew the lid off the My Lai cover-up. A must-read for anyone who is serious about studying the Vietnam War.
A remarkable book, made even more remarkable by the depth of research in such a short period of time (4 or so months from time of news breaking to publication).
And he had to churn it out without the benefit of knowing the result of Calley's trial (something I assume he deals with in his follow up book 'Cover Up').
The My Lai massacre 'made' Seymour Hersh and deservedly so.
While his coverage of the incident is astonishing in itself, the aftermath is just as compelling and the comments from a US congressman challenging the incident "The American people are daily becoming more aware that the news media is being used as a weapon of psychological warfare against them" is somewhat eerily relevant to the current day.
A journalistic account of the My Lai massacre during the Vietnam War. Based on interviews with members of Charlie Company, this book looks at what happened at My Lai, and also addresses how the military and media responded to the actions of those involved. A disturbing account of the massacre of innocent people.
Un episodio amaro della guerra del Vietnam: la distruzione di un villaggio vietnamita e l'uccisione di tutti i suoi abitanti da parte della Compagnia Charlie con i conseguenti insabbiamenti da parte di militari e politici finché la verità non viene a galla
Fascinating!!! I wanted to read before I visited Vietnam but maybe it was better after!
At first the story of unbelievable horror, then unbeliavably infuriating.
My Lai 4: A Report on the Massacre and Its Aftermath by Seymour M.
Hersh (Random House 1970)(959.7).
Pulitzer-Prize winning journalist Seymour Hersh was the person responsible for making the world aware of the murder by U.S. infantrymen of hundreds of unarmed civilians at “Pinkville,” which was better known as “My Lai” during the Vietnam Conflict.
Hersh interviewed over fifty soldiers and support personnel who witnessed the tragedy or who had special personal knowledge.
At the time this story came out, it was inconceivable to think that American servicepeople could demonstrate this kind of inhumanity on the battlefield.
Una sconvolgente ricostruzione di uno degli episodi più vergognosi e devastanti della guerra del Vietnam.Le vittime erano i Vietcong, ma anche molti soldati che poi hanno cercato di far trapelare ciò che era accaduto si sono scontrati con un muro di gomma, omertà, incredulità e tentativi di insabbiamento difficili da abbattere.
not exactly my kind of book but it was interesting and sad that the soldiers were cruel.....
A brutally hash look, by a journalist, at some of the atrocities committed during combat. Additional reading on the Vietnam Era highly recommended.
The book that inspired me to visit the small village on the 32nd anniversary of the massacre.
Author Seymour Hersh's disturbing account of a Vietnam massacre by the U.S. soldiers is sickening and compelling. It raises serious questions about U.S. military leadership in times of war.
