https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17649.Dancing_Girls_and_Other_Stories
Atwood seldom left me with that feeling in this collection, although I admit to loving some of the stories and feeling a little confused about others.The ones I loved:Betty Almost a coming of age tale, with the adolescent narrator who doesn’t quite understand the world of the grown-ups that she observes.
I wanted to tell him what no one’s ever taught him, how two people who love each other behave, how they avoid damaging each other, but I’m not sure I know.” and “He won’t come near me, touch me, doesn’t he that’s all he needs to do?
Dancing Girls / 0-553-37791-4This collection of Atwood short stories includes:- The War in the Bathroom- When It Happens- The Man from Mars- A Travel Piece- Polarities- The Resplendent Quetzal- Under Glass- Training- The Grave of the Famous Poet- Lives of Poets- Dancing Girls- Hair Jewelry- Giving Birth- Rape Fantasies- Betty- The Sin EaterThese stories are classic Atwood material: the stories explore pain in modern relationships, and the ennui that sets into modern life and leaves people feeling deeply sad, yet unable to explain their sadness.
In the face of material security, socially acceptable relationships and jobs, and owning lavish goods and homes, why do we still feel so sad?
This marvellous collection of short stories brings together the stories of men and women, but of course it is the women who Atwood finds more fascinating, and interesting - our motivations, our drives, our desires, mostly unspoken but made manifest by actions.
Ahí tengo mis dudas.Frases para el recuerdo:De niña, siempre se identificaba con la novia engañada o la hermana fea; siempre que el cuento empezaba “Érase una vez una doncella tan bonita como bondadosa”, tenía la certeza de que no se trataba de ella.
Su madre aprovechó para decir que el problema con las personas de otra cultura era que nunca sabía si estaban locos o no, porque sus pautas de comportamiento eran muy distintas.
Todo el mundo cree que los escritores saben más acerca de la mente humana, pero es un error.
Encuentro interesantes y conmovedores cada uno de los relatos; las sentí mujeres que bailan alrededor de su realidad, pero que no la afrontan, bailan a su alrededor. Tejen su historia imaginaria en lo que suspenden su felicidad. Me quedo con: “Tengan cuidado, deseo escribir, existe un futuro”I find each of the stories interesting and moving; I felt them women who dance around their reality, but who do not face it, they dance around it. They weave their imaginary story in which they suspend their happiness. I stay with: "Be careful, I want to write, there is a future"
The only thing that saves this from the one-star category is the fact that I can imaging my creative writing professors at Rochester assigning these sorts of short stories, because they are right in line with all of the ones I read for class.
I would read and become a bit excited near the end of the first third of the story, hoping with a bit of anticipation that now, after this confusion and meandering, everything will add up and lead to something beautiful or horrendous or at least meaningful.
Libro que contiene ocho relatos que tratan sobre la relación entre una mujer y un hombre; algunos me han gustado más que otros.
De todos modos, los leí sintiéndolos y eso ya es suficiente como para valorarlo positivamente.
Además, me vi habitando en los cuerpos de las diversas mujeres que aparecen en esta colección.
«Érase una vez» y «A favor de las mujeres tontas» me resultaron de gran importancia.Margaret Atwood es maravillosa.
Sus reflexiones y su modo de plasmarlas sobre el papel me impresionan.«Pronto esatré allí, dentro están las plantas que han aprendido solas a parecer piedras.
There’s a general tone of immaturity and of experimentation, and only a few of the stories actually read like they were written by the famous and noteworthy Margaret Atwood.
The rest felt like they could have been written by anyone in the 1970s who liked to play around with perspective and tone.The pieces I liked were “When it Happens,” “Polarities,” “The Resplendent Quetzal,” and “Training.” These all carry what I think of as Atwood’s hallmarks: empathy for her characters, an understanding of the tough choices we humans are sometimes forced to make during our lives, and the difficulties men and women have in their communications and interactions with one another.
I prefer Atwood's novels to her short stories but I've had this book for eons and figured it was time to read it.
And sure enough, I was nonplussed by most of the stories, hated a few, and enjoyed fewer still.The overall mood was definitely depressing, the attitude cynical, and if the pieces reflect Atwood's (then) opinions of relationships, she considered all men to be cheating deadbeats and women to be on the verge of a nervous breakdown.
Several stories reminded me of dreams - disjointed, with people and places suddenly shifting so that you wonder if she's still talking about the same time period or character.
Questa raccolta di racconti mi lascia un'impressione duplice: da un lato è veramente bella, i temi, lo stile, le riflessioni infinite dei protagonisti, le ansie e le fantasie.Dall'altro ho avuto molte difficoltà nella lettura: lo stile è circonvoluto (non trovo modo migliore di definirlo) e con un vocabolario ricchissimo, c'è un continuo discorso interiore dei personaggi che si mescola in modo spesso difficile da distinguere con la realtà.
Non è possibile lasciare a metà un racconto e riprenderlo a fine giornata senza dover tornare indietro di qualche paragrafo per capire se si sta leggendo una parte di riflessione o di narrazione.
Racconti che lasciano l'amaro in bocca.
Favourite stories:- Hair Jewellery- The Man from Mars- Under Glass- Rape Fantasies- A Travel Piece- The Resplendent Quetzal
These short stories are from a younger Atwood than ones I have read.
Betty – I like how the story is told through a kid’s perspective, and how that perspective changes through time.
I loved the overtones of the characters being dogs.
Hair Jewlery – No maybe this one is my favorite!
A Travel Piece – This story stands out to me in that it does not feel like the rest.
I am again amazed at how connected I feel to both of the main characters in 13 short pages.
Giving Birth – An oddly structured story.
Writing is like giving birth.
Las historias donde las protagonistas son mujeres son las mejores por el género de su autora evidentemente, comparando con las que tienen a un hombre como protagonista no logran destacar de la misma manera ni tienen una reflexión tan profunda o intima.
Las mejores para mí, en este orden:Betty, la tumba del famoso poeta, translucida, vidas de poetas, chicas bailarinas, historia de un viaje
іноді здається, що в цих оповідань нема ні початку, ні кінця, просто вирвані з життя моменти, які мають свою передісторію і після яких ще купа всього відбуватиметься, - розповіді без розв'язок. фейбер пише схожу коротку прозу, теж лишає читача без можливості розпружитися; як і в нього, в атвуд нічого не закінчується, є тільки проміжні зупинки, і вони не обов'язково наприкінці оповідання.символічний - і дуже потужний - текс про "давати життя" наприкінці збірки, мабуть, один із найсильніших тут.
Atwood has written a collection of stories that are almost overwhelming in their depressing portrayal of the impossibility of intimacy in relationships. Each of the narrators is isolated and overly analytical. Yet, like all her stories, they offer a look at human motivation and draw the reader in.
I love collections of short stories and in Dancing Girls, Atwood really packs a punch. It combines dark humor and lyrical philosophy all together. While I feel that the title could have been better, this is a book I throughly was inspired by.
The narrative choice (someone describing her day to day semi-omniciently, but also suggesting that she lives with the woman) gives it an unsettling edge, but not much payoff."The Man From Mars" holds up all too well, a skin-crawling story about a "well-meaning" stalker who harrasses a college girl.
The hum-drum of their relationship is broken by a too-violent sexual escapade that is likely to break them apart.Despite the name, "Rape Fantasies" is the funniest story in the collection, and one of the most interesting.
Short but effective.The title story takes place in a tightly-packed apartment complex, a single woman living alone, a nosy, xenophobic landlady, and a strange foreign man who lives downstairs.
This was my first read from Margaret Atwood, and perhaps a book of 14 Short Stories was not the best introduction ..
whether reading the written word would have improved my experience, who can tell.I could easily have given up after the first 3 or 4, but I decided to continue until the end in the hope that one of them would resonate with me, make me sit up and take notice, but none did ..Next time I read Margaret Atwood, it will be a tree book ..
I picked this up from a second-hand bookshop in Victoria BC on my way to the ferry, expecting to have flown through it by the time I reached the other side.
Instead, this would be the book that I dipped in and out of for respite from the non-fiction books that I had on the go at the same time.
I was genuinely sad when I finished this collection.
Like all Atwood's writing, the characters stayed with me and the stories were real and memorable, and aged impressively well.
Her first short story collection published in 1977, this is also Atwood's best.

I've read quite a bit of Atwood over the years, several of her books I have liked very much. As a short story writer I have found her less interesting, though she is a good writer. There were a few selections here I enjoyed, though it seemed that some of the stories were dated (and in fact, in turns out the stories were written in the 1970s), and a few others that I started and then discarded as not catching my interest. I liked "Polarities" the most.
4.5 stars for this brilliant collection of short stories by Atwood.
Its one of her earlier works which I wanted to sample for a very long time.The set of stories that this book encompasses are quite varied and diverse.
Often readers complain that the short story medium lacks in character development but using an almost stream of conscience like narration, the author manages to help us get a glimpse into the characters' psyche.
The stories are rooted in reality, a bit cynical at times but incredibly rewarding to the reader.
Ya hablé convenientemente sobre ella en el recopilatorio “Asesinato en la oscuridad” y ahora todo ello se refrenda con este “Chicas bailarinas” que reedita Lumen en su sello de narrativa.En el anterior recopilatorio que comenté jugaba con factores distintos: más cercanos a la narración de género policíaco, ciencia ficción… En este caso, sin embargo tenemos una aproximación más acorde con la temática usada por Munro: Esa narración de lo cotidiano.Atwood es capaz de mostrarnos toda la belleza de lo sutil y hacer lo extravagante más cercano a la realidad.Consecuentemente, la mayoría de los casos estamos ante narraciones en primera persona y las mujeres son las verdaderas protagonistas.
There's not much to say about this. It was just boring. The stories lacked plot and it just felt very underwhelming to me. Maybe I should just stick to her novels instead of her short stories 🤷🏻♀
There's not much to say about this. It was just boring. The stories lacked plot and it just felt very underwhelming to me. Maybe I should just stick to her novels instead of her short stories 🤷🏻‍♀️
¿Qué sería del cine sin las mujeres tontas?
Normally I'm a huge fan of Atwood's work, but I must say it was a somewhat arduous task to persevere with some of these stories. Some I loved, such as 'Dancing Girls', 'The Man From Mars' and 'Giving Birth'.Of the rest, most were downright depressing or failed to hold my interest. Normally a brilliant writer, Atwood adopts a more cynical attitude than usual and the absence of any form of optimism in this book makes it a difficult read. 2 stars for the stories that I enjoyed, but I can't say I will be revisiting this collection any time soon.
i feel like atwood's short stories are generally stronger than her prose, which sometimes rambles and baffles.
some of the short fiction is banal though; starting to believe it's a trend that i like only 30% of her compilations, so naturally out of the 14 stories i found 4 of them truly memorable1.
atwood at her most critical and meticulous, dissecting the layers of human relationships that we hide our intentions behind, how we fight and self-doubt and bargain, how we settle for less.
makes u want to slap the protag, except u think u might do the same, in her place6.
rape fantasies - by far the best story and atwood at her most magnificent!!!
A woman moves to a new boarding house and the old man who coughs up a lung every morning in the bathroom next to her room annoys her.
The ending is interesting and I really enjoyed this quiet story.
Polarities - A quiet man of solitude meets an efficient, organized woman at the university where they both work.
They don't really have a lot of interests in common and by the end of the story, they know their relationship is over.
Simply a story about a woman giving birth.
I do have three favorites despite it not being my favorite of her works: "The Man from Mars," "When It Happens," and "The Grave of the Famous Poet." "The Man from Mars" is an interesting tale about a woman being stalked by another student.
There is an awesome twist at the end of the story when the woman narrator inquires about what happened to her stalker after he was sent out of town.
"The Grave of the Famous Poet" has to be my favorite of the stories.

