https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33569.That_Was_Then_This_Is_Now
I read this so long ago I don't remember everything that happened throughout very clearly.
All I know is that it left me feeling strange and not a good kind of strange.
I don't remember if I hated this book merely because it was not a happy ending or because Hinton destroyed my favorite character.
Perhaps I need to give it another read now that I'm older, to better understand and appreciate what she was trying to say by writing the book.
I might have been too young to appreciate it, but even so, even now when I think of this book, my gut wrenches a little.
I had aimed to read 40 books this year and this is my 140th so please believe me when I say I am PROUD of myself!The Outsiders is one of my all time favorite book and I wanted to read something similar so I picked this one up.
This one's set around the time as The Outsiders and also has Ponyboy's cameo ( I cannot express how happy I got when I read about him!) The story's great, the book's great but I will never forgive Bryon for what he did.
Do yourself a favour and read this book.
Want to know the reason why it took me years to read it again?
I didn’t cry the second time around, but I was close to it.The characters are are very well developed making you feel everything they do, which I dont always find is possible with such short books, but it achieved completely here.
A small touch I really enjoyed about this book is that made me enjoy it just that little bit more, the setting is the same from The Outsiders and you get to see a glimpse of the old main character Ponyboy Curtis once again, but he doesnt take over the story.
See, everyone's talking about how the ending is wonderfully dark and hopeless and brave in its horror.Well, I think it's bullshit.I think Mark is gorgeous inside and outside, and fearless and clever and slightly twisted and dead sexy, and I think Bryon is a flighty, selfish, irrational dick.
Do yourself a favor and skip the crap movie with, um, one of the Estevez brothers, I forget which one. This YA is actually pretty powerful, if rather bleak, because unlike the movie, the novel doesn't cop out by giving the audience a phony happy ending.
It was great to see cameos of the characters from The Outsiders.
While she was fantastic in The Outsiders, this book made her points a lot more subtle (with the exception of the titled line).
I also feel that the personal development of the characters was better portrayed than in The Outsiders.
The ending broke my heart and threw out the pieces.Favorite quotes:"If you have two friends in your lifetime, you're lucky.
43"If people think you can't hear them, they talk as if you couldn't.
45 (I do this a lot)"You know what the crummiest feeling you can have is?
She was pleased to see the reappearance of Ponyboy, but would have liked to have seen a bit more of him.
Yet unlike Ponyboy, Bryon is a player with the girls, self-assured and a risk taker.
To be sure, they are older now and Ponyboy has likely matured.
But at the last read, his self-image was weak and he was only just starting to believe in himself, his story.
Hailey hated the ending.
We're supposed to hate the ending.
I love reading with my daughter and hope to continue with stories like these for years to come.
In reading about the author, she said that as a teen she was not satisfied with what was available for her to read so she did something about it and as a consequence she wrote literature relevant to and for a young adult audience.
(Of course, the frankness and bold honesty over the years has not been so completely embraced and her books have been "taught in some schools and banned in others".) Her target audience may be YA, but I contend that adults can also learn from and benefit from the honest dialogue of teens who are growing up in near poverty situations so that rather than reacting with judgement there can be an attempt for a deeper understanding.
I think I've read The Outsiders at least 6 times but strangely I've never read any other of Hinton's books until now.
I picked this one up at the library for $1 and I'm very glad I did.
It's just as gritty and real as Outsiders but it's time period is set a bit later.
My favorite part is Cathy crying to her father and saying, "You can't say, 'This is just a stage,' when it's important to people what they're feeling.
Maybe he will outgrow it someday, but right now it's important." Loved it!
What an emotional roller coaster.I remember reading this in high school, but I couldn't remember anything about the story. Until almost the end of the book and then I knew everything. Ugh, what a mess it ended up being.Seems like more than one person lost their mind.
Well then you’ll love this book.
This book is about the criminal life of 16 year old Bryon.
Bryon and his best friend Mark used to spend most of their time pool hustling and mugging people.
Almost every day they would mug people or hustle them in pool for money.
Their good friend Charlie ran the bar they would hustle in.
One night when Bryon and Mark were leaving Charlie’s bar they got called into an ally.
Charlie came to the rescue just in time but got shot.
Now for Bryon, the thug life doesn’t seem so appealing.
This is a coming of age story about two best friends, and what happens to them when they start to mature and grow apart. It is a story about friendship, loyalty, and mostly how the difference between right and wrong is subjective. There is excellent character development, and although the book is short (I finished it in a few hours) by the end you feel for every character in the story, as if you really know them. Recommended for anyone who liked The Outsiders.
Audio #148I don’t think I could have survived puberty without the Brat Pack and S E Hinton. I read all 4 of her novels repeatedly for years. Then drooled over the casts of the movies. I felt a bit nostalgic when I noticed this audiobook at my library and immediately checked it out. I traveled back in time. Of course how I feel about the storyline now is not nearly as overpowering as it was 35 years ago, but I appreciated the flashback. I think I’ll seek out the other three too.
With The Outsiders, Hinton paved the way for authors who took teenagers seriously as an audience to write about important issues.
Books can be influential without being good, but I'm happy to say that I did moderately enjoy The Outsiders.
Hinton just doesn't seem to have a good idea of what she wants to say here.
In The Outsiders, Hinton knew exactly what she wanted to say, and everything in the novel built up to that set of ideas.
Here, Hinton has no idea what she wants to say, so she has nothing to build the novel around.
Byron meets a girl named Cathy who he's smitten by but Mark can't stand her.
But when something unfortunate happens to the owner of the poker place, opinions on the world are changed, Mark seams to live in the moment and sorta doesn't care and is much less sad while Byron thinks it's all his fault and feels awful for it!GRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR The book itself isn't captivating but THE ENDING!!!!!!!!
The book if it didn't have the ending it does would've probably been a three there isn't truly a moment I'm on the edge of my seat, but how much drama can you expect from a short story?
Mark and Bryon have been best friend way before Mark moved in.
When Mark came in the room, Bryon looked at him, and Mark said "Don't worry, I don't drink it,I just sell it" And Bryon said "I called the police" Mark went white and he tried to understand what his best bud had done.
Mark told Bryon that he could've stopped if he didn't want him to sell them.
The police men came in and held marks arms tightly while Bryon told everything to the police about Marks job.
Mark didn't do anything, he just started to cry and went with the police men.
During the journey of Bryon and Mark, that is.
It was emotional, breathtaking, and shocking!
Bryon is a kid who's focused on the big picture.
He's serious but has fun if it's hassling or just being the cool kid.
He's a wise-crack kid and the biggest player in Tulsa.
But that was until Cathy came along.Mark is the joker.
With Bryon growing up and Mark longing to be in the past, can they be best friends?
Can they be even friends?
This novel keeps you gasping in a total of 11 chapters until the last page.And it's the last page that shocks you the most.
I really tried to like this book. I loved the Outsiders, and I liked seeing some of those characters again. Brian and Mark just seemed a lot meaner to me though, without as many redeeming qualities. The thing that bothered me the most was the ending; it left me really dissastisfied. Whenever something ends sadly, people say it's realistic, but happy endings exist in real life, and would it kill authors to put one in every now and then?
Another I read as a child.
Bryon also says “Mark had absolutely no concept of what was right and what was wrong; he didn’t obey any laws, because he couldn’t see that there were any.
Laws, right and wrong, they didn’t matter to Mark, because they were just words.”(142).
This shows that Bryon is starting to realize how the world really is, and that people may not who they really seem they are.
I would recommend this book to people that enjoy reading about realizations of what the world is really like.
16 yr old Bryon is having a rough time in this book about how hard it was in the 1970’s for some people and Bryon goes through a lot.Bryon goes through a lot of things, especially for a teenager, and he changes his ways tremendously.
Bryon experiences a lot of things like, gang violence, death, and depression.
Bryon starts off the book as a carefree teenager who seems to be living his life but that changes all of a sudden when he goes through a midlife crisis.
Bryon went from a carefree teenager into a depressed extra-cautious man who didn’t think it would ever get better for him.
I like The Outsiders more, but Ms. Hinton shows us with her second book that she can, indeed, stay gold.
Such a line could be used to describe M&M, a pretty cool hippie character that I actually liked, but Bryon was applying it to all of hippiedom, and I really think that was just an extension of Hinton's actual beliefs.
Again, I could be wrong.If you like a good coming of age story with a rather sad ending (at least for a young adult book), then get at it.
Since most of the story actually takes place in town, it feels like a snapshot of the culture in the 1960s, more so than The Outsiders.
Bryon's narration sounds a lot like Ponyboy's...
The book feels like Bryon and Mark walking through a series of examples and then talking about them philosophically-ish.
In her author's note, Hinton writes that The Outsiders was to make people feel, and this book is to make people think.
Well, mission accomplished, I just think I like feeling better.
In her afterward, Hinton mentions that this book was written while fighting through writer's block. It shows. The character dynamics and plot development are very forced and after school special-ish. The characters and situations are dated and awkward. Overall, this is an overrated book that scores some cheap fan points through a cameo by Ponyboy.
Coming of age story that's equal parts "The Hustler", "Rumble Fish" and the Jack Kerouac-Neal Cassady bromance legends. Two punks grow up = one goes straight, the other gets crookeder, the story's been told many times before. But S.E. Hinton gives it a fresh spin setting it in Vietnam War-era hippiedom so you get psychedelic painted Volkswagen buses and Roger Corman-style drug den crash pads. As is the case in all noir books everything explodes at the end because hip kids never win and squares always spin.
This is a fragment of a story, a bitter, sobering look at letting people change you and then not recognizing the people around you - or yourself - anymore. It's less melodramatic than The Outsiders, which makes its darkness a little uglier. Nobody gets a happy ending. There is no ending.
A great adolescent character study, THAT WAS THEN, THIS IS NOW is about growing up and dealing with all of the difficult and hard changes that life throws your way. A surprising book in some ways. I enjoyed this short novel of Hinton's.
That Was Then, This Is Now written by S.E Hinton was a sad but interesting book.The book is about two brothers, Bryon and Mark maturing and living in a violent neighborhood where they only have each other.In That Was Then, This Is Now, I liked the secondary protagonist, Mark.
He was strong and had a free personality in the book even after going through rough events.
For example, when Bryon and Mark were talking about past painful events Mark says, “You can’t walk through your whole life saying ‘If.’ You can't keep trying to figure out why things happen, man.
I would suggest that people who like drama, and romance book read That Was Then, This Is Now.
My opinion on the book “That was then, This is now” I thought the book was really interesting and the setting and characters were fascinating where the book took place and the time of year.The story That was then, this is now is basically about two best friends Bryan and Mark who practically lived together since they were young, Mark’s mother had gotten into the hospital.
The character changes throughout the story because Bryan trusted Mark his “best friend” with everything and Mark turned on him not knowing exactly what he was doing.
I'm pretty sure I read this in high school, but it was basically all brand new for me this time around.
I didn't love this one as much as The Outsiders...but how can you top that?
I love that movie as well.
The Outsiders broke my heart, but I was still left with a sense of hope somehow.
I felt a sense of dread while reading and the characters seemed to live up to my expectations.
I think that was the point, but it made for a dispiriting read.
If you have never read this author, young or older, you definitely should.
