https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/571397.A_Purple_Place_for_Dying
I've only read some of his early novels so far, this is my third Travis McGee novel, and I've read a handful of his early standalone novels, but what stands out is how dark most of them have been.
I was kind of expecting something like that in this book, but that never happened.
I'm just glad this wasn't the first book I had chosen to read of his.
Next up A Quick Red Fox, which has to be good because I'm sure it will be about an actual fox and all.
But too American though, too much of an individual.All: Whoa!Hammer: Easy Commander, you’re sitting at a table with some American men who don’t lose time for queen or country.Magnum: Right James, all due respect, but that’s what MacDonald is selling, and plenty of buyers, he’s the quintessential American hero – a loner, and his own man, not a cop or a spy, not a government man, hell, not an employee at all.Rockford: True, all true, McGee is all that but he’s also very much a man of his times, he asks some serious questions.
MacDonald, A Purple Place for DyingJohn D.
MacDonald's 3rd book in his Travis McGee series.
Along with his first two novels The Deep Blue Good-By (1964) and Nightmare in Pink (1964), A Purple Place in Dying was also published in 1964.
Sometimes you space out your publications, and sometimes you cluster bomb that shit.Essentially, this is a novel where McGee is hired to investigate the financial dealings of a woman's estranged husband, but before he can be hired his potential boss gets killed.
McGee sets out trying to figure out who shot Mona (the wife).
Don't read a Travis McGee mystery for its low opinion of the half of the world's population that aren't male, instead savor the crisp prose style that hasn't aged a day in over fifty years and delight in the precedent skeins of acerbic misanthropy. Plus there is embezzlement, blackmail, adultery and death by rock slide. A quick read as fine as a cerveza with your toes in the sand.
Just to make sure that readers of this review understand up front that Travis McGee is my best guy ever. Please consider that my only disclaimer. Been in love with Travis since I first met him in the early 1970's. First Edition Cover and Probably One I ReadThis review is based, in part, on comments made on a blog created by D. R. Martin called Travis McGee and Me which I read and comment on regularly. All fans of John D. MacDonald and Travis should check it out. But a cautionary note, there are
I took slight issue with a comment on the blog “His ladies were usually damsels in distress which distresses the feminists to no end.” It’s my opinion that Travis respects woman to no end.
It's my opinion that most feminists, myself included, find no problem with the interaction Travis has with women, as stated in the blog, the “damsels in distress.” Damsels, the word itself in my mind, is antiquated.
Travis and his wiry hair...self described In the words of Travis himself from A Purple Place for Dying:Finding Travis and Isobel (Iz) are in a small cold cave at night huddled together trying to warm themselves and nature simply took its course.
Slightly disappointing offering from the author I like to call the Michael Jordan of storytelling.This is above average by any means, but what went wrong exactly here?
The most interesting character aside from Travis McGee dies in the first chapter for starters and there's really just a poor recollection of her legacy throughout the novel.
Mona Yeoman is just a pawn in something that's greater than herself, really.
I mean it's an above average mystery by any means, but it doesn't feature much of McGee's sharp psychological insight that makes McDonald's novels so good because he doesn't have any visceral ties to the crime.Blandly enjoyable.
Crisp muscular prose, clean storytelling and the appealing bummy hero Travis McGee compensate for some dated Freudian stereotypes. The dark revelation at the finale is also handled well, and all in all, a good read.
There is nothing like reading a book that was written the year you were born to make you realize that the world has, in fact, changed beyond recognition.
This book, in particular, will also make you realize that whoa, feminism and the changes it has wrought were long overdue and probably saved your life by coming along when you were small.
The scary thing is that I almost certainly read this book for the first time when I was a young teenager and soaking up all the Travis McGee I could get my hands on.
It's been a while now and Travis McGee hasn't shown up and I haven't been shot.
MacDonald’s first Travis McGee book, The Deep Blue Good-By. From what I’ve learned, that book, its sequel Nightmare in Pink, and this book were all written at the same time in 1964, and then released in consecutive months.
As a result, they’re all cut from the same cloth, and all equally establish the back-story of one Travis McGee, "salvage consultant".Once again, we find McGee as a fish out of water, this time out west.
As McGee is debating whether or not to help her – he is broke and could use the money, but doesn’t think much of her – she is assassinated right before his eyes.
McGee is recommended by a friend to see if he can help a young woman get money back from her husband who has been milking her estate for about fifteen years.
It all started out as a guardian relationship, but ultimately turned into a marriage of convenience.
When McGee meets with his new prospect out in the desert where she had a house he could use for the duration, a rifle shot cracks and the beautiful woman is killed immediately.
As in most of these thrillers, the ultimate goal is money.
McGee has to somehow follow the money trail to see who benefits the most for his client’s death.
MacDonald's Travis McGee series were published simultaneously in early 1964.
A Purple Place for Dying was the third.
I enjoyed it more than the first two, but it's still pretty similar, and the things I don't like about the series so far are still here in full force.
And there's always a frigid, neurotic, female character who needs McGee's sexual healing ...
which wouldn't be so bad if the reader were not then always treated to pages of tiresome exposition about the sexual healing and what it all means.
On the plus side, however, A Purple Place for Dying was tightly plotted, with a mystery that kept me turning the pages.
On my 2010 review of the Travis McGee series, this is the first of the novels that lived up to my memory.
Travis is pulled in by an unhappy young wife to help her recover the estate left to her and stolen by her husband and he discovers that the story runs much deeper and becomes much more dangerous.
The characters are more fully drawn than in the previous novels and there is even mention of his "economist friend" Meyer, whom I know from experience will become on of my favorite recurring characters.I had been contemplating a quick stop to reading this series, but this story provides the fuel to keep going.
Definitely the most enjoyable so far, this is the 3rd Travis McGee story. He's developing into such an interesting, 3-dimensional character. The story was interesting, the mystery was solved without my assistance and the other characters had flaws, strengths. Very good... Looking forward to number 4, The Quick Red Fox.
In 1964 John D. MacDonald broke many of the plot rules for popular fiction, several of the main-character rules, and took the narrative drive into social commentary. He kicked literary ass with Travis McGee. Travis is one of my faves, but there is a love/hate thing for him on GoodReads. #3 in the series; I've read this one 5+ times. @hg47
John D MacDonald never fails to entertain. A Purple Place for Dying is another great addition to the series. Rarely about intricate puzzle plots, can always count on fully fleshed-out characters. I loved the novel. McGee is a great character and very real. Even when folks arent lying they never tell the whole truth.
One of the better Travis McGee books. Good story, well structured. Little contrived ( snake saves the day?! ) Otherwise pretty good. Liked it a lot.
We have decided to add the Travis McGee set to our reading list; this third entry (of 21 total) is our third.
{Child is a huge fan and has written introductions to many MacDonald books...} In “Purple”, Travis is accompanying a brand new client to a cabin in Arizona to get the low-down on her case when they must detour a rock slide on foot.
It takes a while for McGee to get to the cops, and when they go back with him to the scene, no dead body can be found!
My only complaint was the physical book I was reading. I have built my John D Macdonald library by purchasing old paperbacks - very affordable. This one was an original 1964 paperback, I don't know if it had been read before. Very cool. But the pages wouldn't open all the way so it was a pain. That's all. On the upside, it had a very handsome photo of John D on the back, super young and attractive in his 40s (at 36, 40s seem that way I guess).
McGee repeatedly tells his love interest that all she ever has to say is "No". So naturally, they wind up (and this isn't a spoiler of the main plot itself) on a secluded island for an idyllic love affair in paradise. But still, the plot's the thing, and it gets off to a roaring, and very surprising, start within just a few pages, followed by numerous twists and turns.
Truly excellent pulp detective mystery. It was a fun book to read, even though the spanking of an troublesome wife is accepted or sanctioned by male and female characters alike. I got over it and pretended it was 1964. (view spoiler)[As usual Travis and his magic way with damaged, beautiful women was the climax of the book....ugh did I just write that? (hide spoiler)] Great series so far.
Another Travis McGee novel, this one notable only for its change of venue; Arizona this time rather than Florida. I was not particularly impressed by the story, but the pacing and dialog were of the familiar MacDonald quality. This isn't his best work, but any MacDonald novel is going to be worth reading.
JDM knows how to write a good thriller as Travis McGee goes about solving a woman's murder that was covered up, helps the husband of the murdered woman, helps the sister of the murdered woman's lover, helps the police and finally helps himself to the virginal sister.
it's not so much the story line that grabs you, but the wonderful characteristics of Travis McGee and his insights into human nature, women, and life.
I banged the rock and came back onto the road again and into a curve and missed the curve, slid it backward onto a ride to a grinding stop, rear wheels lifted clear of the ground."A lot of things make this work.
The sleazy businessmen aren't such a bad guys: "He had made trouble in a lot of far places and settled it his way, or he wouldn't have lasted.
Partly because after all this pontificating, Travis McGee is suddenly skidding down a mountain in reverse trying to save his skin and manages to succeed in an ingenious way.
As McGee realizes, he’s “too far from the bright water and the bright boats” (p199) for either comfort or safety.
There are some solid action scenes out in the desert and one of McGee’s most challenging, most repressed subjects for his trademark sexual therapy--all of it leading to a satisfying climax.I was surprised that it wasn’t until this third Trav McGee adventure that one of the greatest, most memorable sidekicks in crime fiction is first mentioned--Meyer!
If memory serves, Meyer the hirsute economist/philosopher actually APPEARS in the 4th book, but I’m out of McGee until Amazon sends the next 3-4 pre-ordered titles in March.(Can’t hardly wait for the next color!)
This is the third novel in the original Travis McGee trilogy, all of which were originally published in 1964.
At first, McGee doesn’t like the way the job is shaping up but soon after meeting his potential client, she is blown away by an unknown sniper.
Like many readers, I tended to like this third book a little better than the first two in the series and in fact, most critics point to this novel as the lynch pin book wherein the character of Travis McGee finds his stride that will carry him through the rest of the 21 book series.
For some reason MacDonald put Florida beach bum McGee somewhere out in the Arizona desert, trying to help a woman whose husband has apparently pilfered her sizable trust fund. Before he can even accept the case, she is shot dead by a sniper. Interesting set up, but the ensuing story meanders a bit, and it didn't provide a nifty plot twist like the previous novel. Not sure McGee's character was really developed much in this installment either. Of the first three novels, which I learned MacDonald wrote as a group, this one is the weakest.
I knew these would be dated, and likely sexist and racist (and they are), but what finally wore me down was the facile pop psychology "insights." This is, therefore, my last one. Important to the genre they may have been, but they are no more readable today than are most of the 1940's space opera yarns from the pulps.

EnjoyableA good book to read for passing time. Travis McGee is always entertaining. Enjoyable but easily forgettable, just pure entertainment.
