https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2921082-the-maze-of-bones
That's because the only place worth reading this book is while you've got a few minutes of privacy on the porcelain throne.Amy and Dan Cahill are typical squabbling siblings who believe one another are the most annoying brother and sister in the world.
Amy and Dan reluctantly accept the clue, forgoing the million dollars, along with most of their relatives.
However, I've read many young readers books that are still extremely well written and appealing to adults as well as kids, so this simply doesn't pass the grade.
Guess how many requests I have for the book now?I finished the book last night, have entered one set of cards and unlocked my first clue, and have mastered the first five tasks the online game has presented to me.
I plan to raffle off (for free) the other card sets to interested students and circ the books without cards.
I'm planning to display the one card that can be reused by every player in a plastic stand near the computers with the website listed and I'll see what the interest is.
Adventurous and exciting treasure hunt with great humor. The information about Benjamin Franklin and the scenes in Paris were interesting. A really intriguing start of the series.  A few minutes later they stood in a muddy graveyard, looking up at the dark silhouette of St-Pierre de Montmartre. The church was made of gray stone slabs. A single square bell tower rose from the left-hand side, topped with a lightning rod and cross. Dan thought the building looked angry and resentful. If churches co
Adventurous and exciting treasure hunt with great humor. The information about Benjamin Franklin and the scenes in Paris were interesting. A really intriguing start of the series. 
  A few minutes later they stood in a muddy graveyard, looking up at the dark silhouette of St-Pierre de Montmartre. The church was made of gray stone slabs. A single square bell tower rose from the left-hand side, topped with a lightning rod and cross. Dan thought the building looked angry and resentful. If churches could frown, this one would.
an easy read, very nice, refreshing and relaxing! certainly not a difficult book but nonetheless enjoyable. I am already starting the second one.
For Amy and Dan, the loss of Grace, their grandmother, is a terribly sad event.
A clue that will lead to a deep family secret.
The one who follows all 39 clues and uncovers the secret will become the most powerful Cahill in the world.Amy and Dan are 1 of 7 teams competing for the clues.
The other teams may be made up of family members, but that doesn’t mean they aren’t dangerous.
Each book comes with a set of clue cards.
OH - and if this the clue cards and interactive website aren’t enough, the books have already been optioned for a movie.
It was a good read.
Još jedna knjiga koja mi je žao što nisam čitao kada sam bio mnogo mlađi. Napušteni brat i sestra sami protiv sveta u borbi za kontrolom nad istim. Pa skoro sami, par saveznika imaju (od kojih je jedna čangrizava mačka :) ).Čist stil pisanja, sa relativno jednostavnim likovima koji su skoro čisto crno/beli mada imaju malo zatamnjenja čisto da ne budu dosadni, interesantna pričica sa fokusom na pronalaženje i režavanje zagonetki i tempo koji kreće odma od početka i ne popušta do kraja.Preporuka za svakoga, naročito ako ste 15 ili manje :D
In Which Rick Riordan Attempts  Another  Harry Potteresque Cash Cow. Good God, is this man the most shameless author currently working in children's literature? First the highly derivative (but at least marginally entertaining) Percy Jackson, and now this - a hokey National Treasure meets Amazing Race mash-up? 10 books, each written by a different author, that follow a sibling duo as they globetrot, attempting to piece together the titular clues in order to reveal a single earth-shattering prize
10 books, each written by a different author, that follow a sibling duo as they globetrot, attempting to piece together the titular clues in order to reveal a single earth-shattering prize that will restore the power of their family name?
Nellie argues on the phone with her father in Spanish and then it's never brought up again, except for her to admit quite casually that she also speaks French, which comes in handy when the kids go to France.
She was, like, French."Perhaps the most insulting endeavor to add a 'multicultural' spin to the book is the character Jonah Wizard.
I really don't plan on ever reading this series again I'm just not a big fan anymore
My expectations may have been excessively high, due to the fact that I like Rick Riordan and I've heard so much buzz about Scholastic's hope to keep themselves big in the post-Harry Potter market with this new "multi-platform" series (books, trading cards, internet game, and cash prizes).
I'm giving this four stars and not five for the facts that 1) all these efforts seem a bit forced, 2) they require purchase and/or computer access, 3) Rick Riordan still has a knack for capturing the middle-school mindset and dialogue, but this book's frequent mention of iPods and celebrities like Kanye West are going to date it, and 5) dang the cliffhanger ending, because in spite of it all, I want to know what happens!!!
Grace Cahill has left behind her will and she has given those on the list a choice to take one million dollars or to be given a clue.
That clue is one of 39 keys to unlocking the Cahills' greatest secret.
Even the 'baddies' were kind of likeable even though they did some pretty crazy things to harm Dan and Amy. The whole plot line felt far-fetched but reading the book felt like watching a cartoon.
The next book is passed on to a different author and I'm looking forward to what they have in store for Dan and Amy!
What I read was fun, but not amazing.
It appears to be an Amazing Race sort of book --- a bunch of different groups all chasing around the world for clues that will solve a big mystery.
Two kids (younger boy is a gaming/computer guy while the older sister is a shy bookworm) and their au pair (just happens to know the right languages and is easily convinced to do this whole thing, dangerous as it clearly is).
It will be interesting to see the ending of this one and how the series plays out with the different writers involved.
Wow, I have been wanting to read this book since fifth grade, but I just never got to it.
I always was reading 'I survived' back then.The book starts of boring then gets better and better.
It is about two kids and when they go to there grandma's funeral.
They get invited to a 'scavenger hunt' to be the most powerful cahill ever.
Benjamin Franklin was a cahill, and the two kids have to go around finding his clues to the thirty-nine clues.
It is actually a very good story, authors take turns writing the book too.
I highly recommend this.
If you liked The Westing Game, Chasing Vermeer and enjoyed the movie National Treasure, this book will at the very least not put you to sleep.
But if you're looking for a piece of kids' fiction that will knock your socks off the way Harry Potter knocked most of our socks off, this ain't it.
This is the first in a series that publishing house Scholastic hopes will buoy its financial success along after the conclusion of the Harry Potter series.
My major issue with this book is that it is so blatantly derivative of many other works of fiction while at the same time being at times almost mind-numbingly dull.
My third grader's reading tests came back: he's reading at a fifth grade level.
This means we need to find some good middle grade books!
The Maze of Bones is a great start.
When the whole extended family gathers for the reading of the will, however, they're given an ultimatum: take a million dollar payout, or embark on a dangerous adventure that may change the world.
There's enough adventure here to keep my stepson interested, and lots of interesting historical facts.
I know that the books are written by different authors, so I'm wondering how the rest of the series will go, but The Maze of Bones is a compelling first book.
Read this one a few times now, and still enjoy it every time :) I've just never gotten around to finishing the series, and I hope to this time. Sometimes I find it quite childish, like with the Holts, but I love the whole mystery aspect, and the suspense with the other teams and the danger and it's all so exciting!
After starting this one way back in on Christmas, my 8-year-old and I finally finished this one up! This was a really great book to read out loud. The story was entertaining for both of us, and we're ready to move a little faster in the series now.
My review copy of The Maze of Bones by Rick Riordan (Scholastic, 2008) came with 6 game cards embedded in the cover.
If this series encourages kids to read, I will be content (and so, he says, will Rick Riordan).
If this series also encourages kids to buy many trading cards as well as millions of copies of the books, Scholastic will be content.
Pues para ser el primer libro de una serie de 11 no está taaaan mal.
Pero no estoy diciendo que la premisa no sea interesante, es decir, ¿que un libro empiece con la muerte de una persona, la lectura de su testamento y una decisión entre un millón de dólares o la posibilidad de participar en una carrera que puede resultar mortal para buscar un tesoro gigante?
Eso a mí me parece muy cool.Eso sí, leer este libro es como estar leyendo una versión súper light de Endgame combinada con las películas de La Leyenda del Tesoro Perdido de Nicholas Cage, jajajaja.
I thought that it was going to just be a non-stop action adventure book for boys but it turns out to be something more.The first book in the series "The Maze of Bones" is written by Rick Riordan, the author of the very popular Lightening Thief series.
And each book following will be written by an acclaimed junior fiction author; Gordon Korman has penned the second in the series.
It was like reading a "Magic Treehouse" book but for older, more sophisticated readers.
What I like the most is that these books can be read without buying the cards or logging on to the website to win prizes, although these options are great for those interested.
i am on chapter twelve and i am at the part where they are following iriana in paris and they have found the headquarters of one of the branches in there family.
I always figured I'd enjoy these books - I love solving puzzles, and I love reading, so what a delightful combination!I was not disappointed.
This books follows Amy and Dan Cahill, sister and brother (14 and 11 respectively) who accept the challenge to hunt down the 39 Clues of the Cahill family.
They don't know what the clues will lead them into, or even what awaits them at the end, only that the whatever is there will make them quite powerful (and possibly save the world).But, Amy and Dan are not the only members for the powerful Cahill family to be searching for the 39 Clues, and not all the teams like to play especially fairly or kindly.I actually quite enjoyed the characters in the book.
Rick Riordan está, provavelmente, a tornar-se um dos meus autores preferidos de literatura juvenil/Young-Adult.Depois de ter lido o primeiro livro da saga de Percy Jackson, fiquei rendida à escrita creativa e divertidíssima do escritor.
Grace, a avó dos dois personagens principais Dan e Amy Cahill, morre e deixa a seguinte herança: Podem optar entre 1 milhão de dólares ou um envelope com uma pista (a primeira de 39) que vos levará a encontrar um tesouro que vos tornará as pessoas mais poderosas do mundo.
Este é o primeiro livro duma trilogia cujos os dois próximos livros são escritos por autores diferentes.
At A GlanceGenre: Young Adult; MysteryLove Triangle/Insta Love?: nope.Cliff Hanger: Kinda.Rating: 3 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover: 6Plot: 5Characters: 6 World Building: 5Flow: 6Series Congruity: n/a Writing: 4Ending: 6Total: 6In DepthBest Part: Mysteryyyyy!Worst Part: Copy cats everywhere.Overall Feels Felt: Poor old lady!; I'd take the money!ConclusionContinuing the Series: maybeRecommending: For younger children yesMisc.: Short Review: Well this is pretty much National Treasure meets Amazing Race but with a 12yr old instead. You can really tell this is written for younger children. I dislike the MC, whiny pre-teen. The plot was straight up stolen from National Treasure. Ugh.Review In GIF Form
I can't decide fully how much I liked this book.
These relatives of a deceased woman are put up to a challenge that could make them the most powerful of their family...or of the world...It was a bit annoying...and this could be a little bit of a spoiler (so sorry if this bugs you...but I don't think it gives much away)....at how often when Amy and Dan found clues another team would end up getting there just after them and causing some annoying confrontation.
I will read the next book at least.
Is that a clue to something??
Well this is practically the 2nd time i've read this book.
The 1st time i read it, it wasn't actually pleasent.
i've read it in Bengali then, the translated one!
No one write like uncle rick actually.
And all the time u just wait to grab the next clue(before Amy and Dan) :p .
The charecters were pleasent.
With some pasts they dont know yet!
I hope they will be revealed some time soon.
But the next books in the series is not written by Rick.
So dont know what to expect for!!
Ну вот, я начала читать эту серию.
В книжном где я работаю, мой взгляд часто останавливался на этих книгах, но читать я не решалась из-за объема.
Слишком много ответвлений как по мне.
Может быть, меня захватит на столько, что я буду молиться на них.
Первая книга мне понравилась.
Риордан хорошо начал серию, читать было интересно.
Правда мне никогда не приходилось читать межавторский цикл, где персонажи одни и те же, а авторы разные.
Будет новый опыт для меня.
Хороший или плохой, говорить пока что рано.
Как же я надеюсь, что каждая книга будет так хороша как первая!
Supposedly the next "Harry Potter" according to the publishers, I got the book at the book fair and began reading it to my 4th graders.
It definately reads like it is written as a screen play, not a novel.
The characters are flat and unlikeable, the plot was difficult to follow, and the clues weren't even remotely close to anything a grade school kid could figure out.
I finished reading the book to the class and told them if they liked it, they could read the next book on their own.
Since this one comes with games and such and I anticipate a lot of students reading it, I feel obligated to read it. Not that there isn't some interesting stuff in the book -- some of the history can lead to further interest from the readers, but there are also so many issues: full of cliches, flat/cardboard characters, easy-ways-out without intricate patterns, and remarkably draggy for this type of supposedly fast-paced, action-packed thriller. So far, some kids really enjoyed it and yet I also have gotten reports saying that "it's not that great".
The school librarian mentioned this to me, and I decided to see what the fuss was about. My tendancy is to run away from books with slick marketing ploys, but I'll probably get caught up in the madness anyhow. Just like that darn Twilight series.after finishing:I think this will be a neat series for older elementary readers. It's got a lot going on, but isn't hard to read. And it is fun for the parents to get involved too.reminds me of the movie National Treasure mixed with the show Amazing Race - a kid version. :)
