https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181987.A_Tree_for_Peter
Lovely.
The format, that of a fat picture-book, shows off Seredy's enchanting artwork.
And the story is ever so heartwarming.
If you're lucky enough to get a chance to read this, don't be a cynic, but just enjoy.---------------A reread reinforces my appreciation for this gem.
I do, naturally, feel my cynical side pushing to diss the book...
but if we're not optimistic, if we don't even *try* for community spirit and brotherliness, then of course we won't succeed.
Between books like this and the new-to-me IRL social media of Nextdoor.com, I feel that we *can* make the world a better place, little by little.
With a country/world going mad around me, this was the balm in Gilead that I needed today, it filled me with the "Sunday feeling".
I would encourage everyone to try and get your hands on this one and read it for the hope and lessons it offers in how we should treat each other and how a little bit of beauty can spread and cover the whole earth if we would allow it.
The Sunday feeling was bright as the sunshine and sharp as the little waves around the boat.
Even in terrible conditions, there is always hope and sometimes unlikely heroes that make that hope shine through.I find Kate Seredy's works to be deeply spiritual as well and love that layer of her work.Find this book and read how little lame Peter, living in Shantytown finds some wonderful friends who help him overcome his fears and guide him to be who he was meant to be!Reminds me of this poem recently pointed out on Michelle's blog:HOPE is the thing with feathers	That perches in the soul,	And sings the tune without the words,	And never stops at all,	And sweetest in the gale is heard;	 5And sore must be the storm	That could abash the little bird	That kept so many warm.
It's sweet, compassionate, and the sort of book you'll want to make sure your kids have read.
It has a social consciousness about it and I'm sure that if young minds read it, especially wealthy, born in the 'right neighborhood' minds - they won't look at the 'wrong side of the tracks' part of town the same way again.
If you can find a copy - read it, it's worth it, and it takes less than an hour (oh - and Seredy's illustrations are 'classic American' kind of priceless eye candy).
Poetic story beautifully told.
Marvelous. Simply marvelous. An absolute gift.
Until one day, small Peter meets Peter King, an old tramp who befriends him and teaches him to stop being fearful of life.
From Peter King's kindness, a chain of events builds and transforms Small Peter and all the people of Shantytown.
People of today might read the story and see only the unrealistic aspects compared to our own day: children left alone day after day without state interference; a friendship with a vagrant who turns out to be kind rather than deranged.
Not Seredy's best. Like her other wartime publications, this one has that abundance of optimism and community spirit that now seems far-fetched. Maybe it was far-fetched then, too, but we did end up winning the war. I'm not sure why so many characters needed to have the same initial: two Peters (one nicknamed Peanut), patrolman Pat, the dog Pal - what is the point? Illustrations are lovely, as usual.
Okay. I started reading this book out loud to my son yesterday for his nap and then today after I read to him before his nap I took the book with me and finished it within the next hour (it's a super easy read). I LOVE THIS BOOK!!!! I love that it highlights hope and the difference each one of us can make, even if our efforts seem small and insignificant - combined they truly can be great things, "by small and simple things are great things brought to pass" comes to mind.
What a lovely story!! This might be one of my new favorite children's books ever! Definitely the kind I want on my children's bookshelf to be read and reread. Truly a treasure! It is very hard to find wholesome books for the 5-8 range that will both entertain and inspire. I can't even think of any others to compare it to. I just love it.
We have had this book on the shelf forever and it was the swine flu that finally allowed us to read it aloud. It is a very sweet Christmas story. The edition we read has gorgeous pictures which were delightful. The book is hard to find but a blessing for a family library.
This is a children's book, or so I thought.
It is a story by a Hungarian storyteller and a beautiful one at that.
I bought a bunch of Kate Seredy's books after talking to a relative who is of Hungarian parentage, as am I, but closer to her roots.
It is a beautifully written story and I am glad that I read it.
I plan to read her other books as well as I would really like my grandchildren to read stories like this and have more of an appreciation for their background and culture.
This was a wonderful read and one that I would highly recommend to a young person.
Fantastic like all of Kate Seredy's books. She's super cheesy and a little too optimistic about human nature. But I'm sure she knew that and I'm sure that's why she wrote her characters as over the top as she does. It's a sweet little story for sure.
I loved the simple pure story of this book. I loved its spiritual messages. It could be a great Christmas read with a charming Christmas happening. I also loved the illustrations. Want to read the other books by this author.
What a beautiful book about looking for the good around you, & the happiness that is to be had! I was left with such a happy & uplifting feeling after finishing this story! Made me wish I was much more like this every day. :)
A sweet, beautiful and timeless story of faith and hope. It reminds me of the words of Dumbledore: "Happiness can be found, even in the darkest of times, if one only remembers to turn on the light.". An absolutely lovely story.
This is absolutely one of my favorite books to read aloud to my children ever! Kate Seredy is such a gifted author and weaves a beautiful story that rolls off the tongue. My hardback version has gorgeous pictures, too. If you have not read this, do not miss it! Perfect for Christmas...
Classic
This was my favorite new read of Christmas 2017. It will remain in my ruthless purge of the Christmas basket.
Inspiring, hopeful,.. an old fashioned classic. Love the illustrations!
These are some cute pictures, and some cute paragraphs too.
Charming, old fashioned story.
The story revolves around Shantytown, a particularly run-down and oppressed slum of an unnamed U.S. city, where five-year-old Peter lives in the most awful poverty with his mother, an overworked washer woman who must leave him alone six days out of the week.
Officer Pat, Pal the dog, even the neighborhood kids become his friends as he and his mother respond to the joy of digging, planting and watching the wonder of flowers coming into bloom.
. .and seeds of hope.”  “The Laddie started it,” said Pat simply, “with his little red spade.” The crowning joy of the story is King Peter's last miracle--to bring a Christmas tree the next December.
A Tree for Peter is the story Peter Marsh tells him, of how a young boy with a physical disability (Peter) and a mysterious vagrant (King Peter) take the first steps toward transforming a depressed and fearful community into a place of joy and love.This is a book which is intentionally sentimental and inspirational, so had it not been written by Kate Seredy, and had my husband not asked me to read it aloud to him, I might very well have skipped it.
Peter is given a vision for the life he could have.
The words of adults painted pictures for Peter, and he believed in those pictures.
"Planning, he fell asleep and saw what was to come.""He fought down his fear...""His simple words opened it path for Peter on which he could walk right into the sunlit dream...
He knew he had to talk, to use many, many words...they swarmed, then fell into place, and the dream picture grew.""All we can do...is to plant the tree and wait...
I appreciate that this story is too syrupy sweet for some, but it came right from the author's heart.
Recently I was reminded of A Tree for Peter as I was reading another book, and I felt the need to find a copy and reread it.It's not as dark and bleak as I remember.
But the illustrations (which are drawn in detail in pencil, I believe) are somewhat dark, people's faces are ragged and overwrought.
And it is yet another tale (for children) where many of the adults are hapless and lost, and a child protagonist must will himself to do what adults around him cannot do, survive.
I think it's an odd theme we choose to share with children; one that must cause plenty of kids anxiety.
While at the public library picking up a a pile of Newbery's for the holiday break (the library is going to be closed for over a week) the librarian suggested I read this. Since I'm waiting for "Roller Skates" to arrive -- either since the public library purchased it upon my request or from the college library sometime after operations begin there again tomorrow -- I'll give this one a whirl.It was a quick read and a nice Christmas story. Can anyone tell me who King Peter really was?
This was a lovely story, very sweet and uplifting. The illustrations are beautiful. Small Peter is a crippled child living in a dump, and his mother must leave him alone during the week as she works in the city. A tramp, also named Peter, befriends him, teaches him to conquer his fears, and slowly changes his vision of Shantytown. The simple gifts of a toy spade and a tiny tree bring about miraculous changes. This was a perfect read-aloud over Christmas-time.
This is my absolute FAVORITE children's book! My mom had an old, worn copy that was hers as a child. I remember how touched I was by the book, even at a young age. It is a beautiful, haunting story and the illustrations are wonderful. It was out of print for many years but after being reminded of this book today I went looking and it is available again. I will be buying this one to read to my kids this Christmas, and so should you.
A somewhat unknown book yet has been around since the 1940s. A true gem. Should be on every child's bookshelf. And every parent's. For that matter every grandparent's too. A lovely story of faith, hope and charity in the guise of their counterparts trust, optimism and love.Wish I'd read this as a child. Now just need that grandchild to read it to. I can wait.
