https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1558136.Reconstruction_in_Philosophy
His tireless efforts to demonstrate the interpenetration between philosophical theory and concrete action, as well as his unequivocal rejection of philosophy’s historical search for Absolute Truth, reveal Dewey as a figure both rooted in and well ahead of his time.In order for the practice of philosophy to play an active role in shaping healthy human communities, it must overcome what Dewey perceives as the failings of the traditional contemplative life: “Historic intellectualism, the spectator view of knowledge, is a purely compensatory doctrine which men of an intellectual turn have built up to console themselves for the actual and social impotency of the calling of thought to which they are devoted” (117).
Much to my surprise, John Dewey has become one of my favorite philosophers.
In this text, he radically reconstructs Western philosophy, dissolving problematic dualisms and calling out the problems--that have preoccupied boring philosophers for far too long--as pseudo-problems, which really have no relevance to what is going on today.
Instead, philosophy ought to concern itself with pressing social and political problems, and unite with scientific inquiry as a method for addressing these issues.
For example, when Dewey writes that "Growth itself is the only moral end," (177), what does he mean by 'growth,' and what does he mean by 'end'?Nevertheless, any serious student of philosophy should not go without reading this.
Dewey uses ropey history - a false contrast between traditional & new philosophy - to sidestep interesting but awkward questions.
Dewey's book is an attempt to articulate an alternative vision of what philosophy would look like if it completely eradicated all and not just some remainders of our ancient, superstitious mode of thinking and was instead reconstructed according to the philosophical-scientific movement known as American Pragmatism.
Dewey's reconstructed philosophy would be less sterile and abstract and more focused on diligently applying intelligent, scientific thought towards solving the various ills that plague us as humans in all their concrete variety.
Dewey emphasized that science has progressed faster than scientifically based moral philosophy, and our scientific study of ends needs to desperately catch up to our scientific study of means.
Dewey is at his best being critical of both the rationalist and empiricism schools.
Using Bacon's axiom knowledge is power, Dewey uses sciences ability to wrestle with dogma that the world is a closed system.
For Dewey science allows us an avenue to reconstruct philosophy to be practical and open to the changing social landscape we live in while attempting to offer solutions to problems we face.
Dewey definitely is a refreshing read and sets up with Kierkegaard in that philosophy must wrestle with the subjective life of our condition.
Dewey criticizes philosophers for failing to approach current issues, preferring instead to continue dragging out age old topics that have little relevance to currently pressing issues.
My introduction to Dewey in a Senior Seminar while and Undergrad.
Date le mie scarse conoscenze filosofiche mi è difficile esprimere un parere sulle posizioni di Dewe
Fundamental reading in pragmatism.
Everyone says this, but it's worth repeating: DEWEY WAS NOT A STYLIST.
No need to beat the rotting corpse of this argument's horse.
Now, getting on with the point: Dewey is read to move on.From pg.
123: "Modern philosophic thought has been so preoccupied with these puzzles of epistemology and the disputes between realist and idealist, between phenomenalist and absolutist, that many students are at a loss to know what would be left for philosophy if there were removed both the metaphysical task of distinguishing between the noumenal and phenomenal worlds and the epistemological task of telling howa separate subject can know an independent object.
But would not the elimination of these traditional problems permit philosophy to devoteitself to a more fruitful and more needed task?"YES.
A easy-to-read and pithy summary of Dewey's pragmatism across philosophical domains (ethics, metaphysics, social relations, etc). He discards the accretions of 20 centuries of philosophy, and presents a contemporary approach suitable for America in the 20th century. He eschews absolutes in favor of particulars and moves us away from the realm of nit-picking over imaginary metaphysical cosmos in favor of dealing with problems in the here and now. A great writer, with good pacing and clear exposition.
Just a caveat about my rating: the philosophical arguments and ideas presented in this book would get five stars from me, because not only do I find them appealing, I also think they are right. However, the writing style seems to me extremely clunky, and I would give it only three stars if I were being generous. Hence the four star rating from me.
تنبيه : قليلا ما يكون تقييمي للكتاب بناء على مدى اتفاقي مع المضمون المطروح، وإنما على مدى تنشيطه واستفزازه للذهن واحترامه لي كقارئ.
