https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152383.Mary_Poppins_Opens_the_Door
This is the third in the series and although Mary Poppins leaves for the last time in this book, the other books in the series contain stories that fit in the time scale of the first 3 books, so in a way this is comforting as Mary's departure needn't feel so final.We loved this mixture of everyday and magic, we love the family and we so wanted Mary Poppins just for once to admit the magic happened, only if just with a wink.
Like Mary Poppins herself, this book gives you no answers, but lots to think about.
Also lovely are the illustrations, now by Mary Shepard and Agnes Sims.
I get the impression that Shepard drew MP, and that Sims drew the children, other characters, and settings 'in the style of' Shepard.
For example, I'm not at all comfortable with the depiction of Friday, from Robinson Crusoe.
Otoh, the depictions of the servant class and of the poor are sympathetic, and men are gently mocked as much as are women (iow, not sexist).I recommend these to all adults who have access to their inner child, and to families who can discuss the wonder, the joy, and the small issues.
However, the ensuing tales proved delightful and inventive, although never up to the standard set in the first book.In Mary Poppins Opens the Door, Jane and Michael Banks (and, at times, their twin siblings Barbara and John) encounter very unusual horses, an enchanting — and enchanted — statue, a very clever cat, and other adventures.
As Jane and Michael could testify, Mary Poppins always leaves you begging for more.
In the last chapter, all of Mary Poppins family and friends returned and it was wonderful.
I’m still upset that Bert and Mary didn’t dance together, but there was a tender moment between them that fits Mary’s characters.It became very clear how much Ms. Travers cared about Mr. Banks over Mrs. Banks.
I’m not sure why this is so but it doesn’t seem like it will change in the last Mary Poppins book Ms. Travers wrote.
I even think the name "Mary Poppins" is indicative of her personality: Mary is sensible and no-nonsense, but "Poppins" promises something a little bit more on the wild side.I also love the narration in these books: I think the joy in simple pleasures and innocent adventures is wonderful; I love all the "cozy passages" as I think of them, about how Mary Poppins smells like toast, and how warm and lovely the fire is- I am also interested in random historical tidbits, like the fact that crumpets were apparently delivered by a "crumpet man" at one time.
This is my favourite of the 6 books so far. Up till now they've been mainly magical, and I had mixed feelings about children being left in the care of a nanny who screwed with their minds and refused to answer their questions. However, in this one, the mystical element hinted at in the previous book becomes a bit more obvious and there are passages of incredible beauty amongst the more commonplace magic (if that's not an oxymoron).
These books are weird, and the adventures are random, but I love them anyways. Mary Poppins has currently brainwashed me into thinking that it's refreshing to read about a thoroughly empowered woman. Some might say she's a little too empowered, to the point where she thinks she's the cat's pajamas, but so be it. Favorite stories are when MP makes peppermint sticks turn into horses and when they travel under the sea to visit an ancient turtle.
Life at #17 Cherry Tree Lane can return to normal … well sort of.
One of P.L. Travers’ trademarks are the little telltale bits of evidence which confirm the most incredible things the children Jane and Michael have seen Mary Poppins do (such as reappearing in a rocket or cavorting under the sea) things which she also vehemently denies.
In this third book we are introduced to more things found in the movie, including one of my favorite lines, ‘Close your mouth, Michael!
You are not a Codfish!, except I think in the movie, Mary says, ‘we’ are not a codfish, but close enough.
It's a series of random, unconnected adventures concerning the toxic, rude, abusive Mary Poppins and her charming, thankfully resilient young charges.
I kind of thought (hoped?) that this book would be comprised of, basically, Mary Poppins literally opening a door, and that would be it, but there was a little more to it than that.This one starts with a random historical discussion on Guy Fawkes Day, leading to the return of Mary Poppins via firework in the Park.
I think Mary Poppins reaches her height of unpleasantness in this third book in the series.
Well, This one was a slight improvement over the last two books, I can see that this one was meant to be the last book but for some reason it will continue which will make the ending of this book kind of silly .. after all this drama she will return in the end LOL,my favourite story was happy ever after and I found it refreshing after the boring repeated stories I've read through out the three books, I still can't enjoy this series but let's see what the rest will bring
Mary Poppins Opens the Door (Mary Poppins #3), P.L. Travers, Mary Shepard (Illustrator), Agnes Sims (Illustrator)
The combination of Opening with Closing is the type of synchronization that I find so incredibly disconcerting about Travers' writing for children, as is the Guy Fawkes opening.
Additionally, she often leaves the baby or the twins behind without explanation.2) A relative of Mary Poppins is encountered.3) The relative is strange, supernaturally gifted or plagued, but LOVES seeing Mary Poppins and seeks to comply with her demands while emphasizing Mary Poppins demigod qualities.4) After they leave, Mary Poppins returns to her usually overpowering rude self and denies the event ever happened, claiming that "people of the right sort" don't do such crazy things.5) The children knowingly exchange pleasantries about the adventure and comply with Mary's stern exhortations, while the narrator reminds us that Mary Poppins never explains anything.6) The children observe something that confirms their adventure is real, often a momento of their time that remains hanging around to be added to various lists throughout the rest of the story.Sigh.
I had been curious about what the book was about since I was 'hooked' on the Disney musical, THEN after watching "Saving Mr Banks" by Disney and understanding behind the movie and the author I REALLY wanted to read the book(s) I didn't realize that Mary Poppins was book 1 of several until it was mentioned in a bio when they said that Ms Travers wouldn't allow Disney to make any more movies off of those.
The first book gives background and explains what they do (all the special magic things that comes with Mary Poppins and her friends) where as this book just takes you back to those characters and picks up where the other book left off.
This may be stunning, but I was just not thrilled with the story at all.
In fact, I am stunned by the abusive Mary Poppins!
I cannot see the Disney Mary Poppins in this, at all, and that is actually quite sad.
I think that it is the Mary Poppins found here that caused my actual biggest disappointment with the book.
I think that there is some fun in the fantasy side for the children in the story, but it would take some tremendously resilient children to survive the treatment they receive from Mary!
I can see a lot of Ms. Travers in Mary Poppins!
Mary Poppins returns in gregarious style and sets all to rights again, tells a new, moral tale, sweeps the children off on fantastical adventures (which she always denies afterwards, of course), new friends are made and strange events happen, and then she whooshes off again when her work is done. All in a day's work in the life of the most famous nanny.3/5
Charming, delightful, and funny as ever but not quite at the same level as the first two. Perhaps the formula is getting a little rote (strange uncle, someone selling something in the park, etc). I'm still amused how transcendental these books are. Who'd a thunk?Still worth every word.
I loved these books as a kid, and I love them still. Mary Poppins is a total asshole, but the adventures have are still so magical and impactful.
I hated this one! the stories were very dull, and bleak. And somewhat repeated, I honestly hope the fourth book will be better.
A re-read.
so cute! now I want to watch the movie again to see what else is based off the books.
Merė Popins yra pasitikėjimo savimi įsikūnijimas. Ir nieko keista, kad jai ir aplink ją tiek visko atsitinka - kai pasitiki savimi, viskas daug paprasčiau :)
The Banks children never seem to age, so either they've found a fountain of youth in their nursery or Mary Poppins leaves them alone for a week or two before being blown back in by the wind, like an alcoholic single mother on a bender.
In this installment, she takes the Banks children to meet more of her weird relatives, some of which are animals (I find it a little disturbing that this has been mentioned in two out of the three books), and somewhat stale wonderment ensues.
It is obvious they are set in a world that is a bit outside the world we are living in (the children have a nanny, their parents don't interact with them in the way that children's parent's today do, they have a maid, etc...) but still, as a story set in a fantasy world of sorts, (the things Mary can do are obviously quite fantastic...) it holds up quite well and is good fun and is definitely would make any child long for Mary as their babysitter/nanny.If you haven't read the books, and have only seen the film, do read them.
I know this is technically the third book in the Mary Poppins series, but I've only read the first one before this.
The stories were the sorts of childhood dreams I would have when I wanted to escape to another world.The difference between this book and the first was that we caught glimpses of the loving nanny Mary Poppins could be.
And at the end she seemed reluctant to have to leave the children again.I love this book for the simple reason that it feels cosy.
It is full of magic and intrigue, adventures and excitement, and a loving family that everyone wants to read about.
Loved this series as a child and re-reading during a period of illness - still find the books marvellous.
I must admit as a child I didn't notice how badly Mr and Mrs Banks parent nor did I pick up on the mind games Mary Poppins seems to play with the children after their adventures.
However, I think, although some readers have been negative about her, what comes through is the sense of order and routine MP creates and how the children feel secure with her and she always keeps them safe.
Although they enter amazing adventures together MP's personality is always predictable - very appealing to a young child.
Another fun Mary Poppins adventure.
This book beins with everyone feeling depressed and completely missing Mary, when by some miracle, she reappears and sets all at right again.
Jane and Michael are once again taken on many wonderful adventures, including a trip under the see, and afternoon with a statue of a boy that comes to life, etc, etc.
And although Mary has to leave again, they will never forget the fun they had and all she taught them.I read this with my daughter, and it was just as delightful as the first two books.
Now we are ready to buy book four, so we can have the whole set.
Book was published in 1943, a dark time in history. It warms my heart to think of the number of people this book helped escape to the magical world of Mary Poppins. I picked up this book on a bad day as well (though not comparable to a World War bad day) and it also provided me with a sheltering refuge. Read these books to your kids at bedtime and they will have magical dreams! Thank you Mary Poppins and Ms. Travers for being the perfect example on the power and boundlessness of books.
Love this book! I like how, even though all the books in the series so far pretty much follow the same form, I never get tired of them because they're each so creative. Talking toys, dancing fish, it's all really funny, and very cute. When I was younger I used to watch the movie all the time, it was one of my favorites. I never knew that there was a series. I started reading the series a little while ago, and I can't put it down.
I read this book second (Google shows it as second, Goodreads shows it as third). The first book had a reason for Mary to show up at the Banks house. The kids were out of control and they needed a new nanny. The first book was about training the kids. This book didn't really have a point. Mary showed back up at the Banks house and they had a different adventure each chapter, but there wasn't an overall direction or plot.
Book #3 in the Mary Poppins series, I love that Mary seems to be softening a little, allowing her smile to come through even when she is giving her negative, stern replies to the children in response to their questions, and how she seems to be showing the children more of the magic, allowing them to see and believe and not just keeping things hidden from them.
