https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6482837-before-i-fall
This book is about a teenager, Sam, who is a Mean Girl who trips into Groundhog Day world and is set on a path to redemption.
Yet, that's nothing compared to living your teenage years on the receiving end of bullshit people like me dished out to other people.I can imagine growing up with that kind of experience would make you quite unsympathetic to Sam. But Sam is on a path and a journey.
If you know what I mean...Now I'm not actually saying that I wanted Sam and Kent to bone but I felt there needed to be more to the final part of the book than just a few vague kisses and a goodbye.
I shiver, thinking about how easy it is to be totally wrong about people - to see one tiny part of them and confuse it for the whole. 4 1/2 stars. Back in 2010, I read Before I Fall and immediately thought I'd found a new favourite author. I eagerly awaited every book Lauren Oliver released after it and yet, I have disliked every single one. My dislike for her writing style in books like Rooms and Vanishing Girls made me wonder what happened. Could it be that Oliver's style had so drastically c
My dislike for her writing style in books like Rooms and Vanishing Girls made me wonder what happened.
The saddest thing about reading this book again was finally understanding how much Oliver's style has changed, in my opinion, for the worse.Before I Fall is about popular mean girl - Samantha Kingston - and her group of popular friends.
Every character is handled with sympathy, turning mean girls, losers and geeks into human beings, each with their own story.It is a lesson on the dangers of bullying and how careless actions can have a huge negative impact on someone's life.
Naturally, when Samantha meets an unfortunate end after forcing us to spend a day in her insipid world, I hardly felt bad for her.
Told in seven chapters, each representing the same day, Before I Fall tells the story of a typically popular girl, who gets six days to right some wrongs.
I hardly think one day is sufficient to mend the hurt that these girls created.
Rather, I felt this story allowed readers to realize that there is depth to us all, even the bitches and we all have thoughts that should shame us.
It's a good feeling knowing you can basically do whatever you want and there won't be any consequences."And then goes on to say:"If high school were a game of poker, Lindsey, Ally, Elody and I would be holding 80 percent of the cards."After Sam finishes recounting her last day--in which she clearly does not come out looking good--she tells us about how she died, then says: "Before you start pointing fingers, let me ask you: is what I did really so bad?
And the truth is, you never really know."It's at this point that my feelings from this book went from like to love.And no, Sam still doesn't get things right away.
I think I’d have been even angrier if I hadn’t known, though, because I’d be expecting that it would have a Groundhog Day's ending and Sam, having learned her lesson on being a better person, would get to enjoy the new, better life she’s created.
Throwing yourself in front of a truck can’t be easy, but for Sam I think it would be even harder for her to live out the rest of high school, to have to stand up to Lindsay next time she tortured Juliet or wrote nasty graffiti about other girls or spread rumors about how so-and-so was such a slut or tried to talk Sam out of dating a social loser like Kent.
3.5/5Though I really enjoy Lauren Oliver's writing style, I struggled finding the motivation to finish this book.
The main character, a popular and catty high school girl named Sam, dies and is forced to relive that day several times.
I was absolutely in love with the story for the first couple of days, but then it felt tedious having Sam wake up and relive February 12th time and time again.
I totally understand why it's many people's favorite book, I just wish it was shorter.
Because of this, I do think it will make a fabulous movie and I can't wait to see it when it hits theaters!
I'd heard from quite a few people that this book was pretty good...That may be the most OUTRAGEOUS understatement of all time.'Pretty good' doesn't explain the embarrassing amount of tears that poured out of me.'Pretty good' doesn't touch on Lauren Oliver's incredible way with words and imagery.'Pretty good' doesn't describe the range of conflicting emotions the story sparked in me.
And 'Pretty good' certainly doesn't account for the fact that, once I finished the final page, I literally threw the book at my husband and demanded he re-write the final chapter....
Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around it, let it slide like coins through your fingers.
I honestly wanted to finish this book so it could go towards my 2012 reading challenge, but it was JUST SO BORING.
I really couldn't care less what happened to the characters, and they were all so bitchy that I just couldn't stand reading about them anymore.
I'm sure this Samantha girl will have some epiphany towards the end where she realizes that the way she's been treating people is wrong, then she'll finally move on and actually die like she should have a while ago.
I don't see the point in reading this when I'm almost positive that this is how it will end.
In the end I was getting a bit frustrated as I couldn't understand the whole idea of the book.
The main thing I have a problem with is the dimension she is in, first I was hoping it's kind of coma and she will come back to life, but no she (or her soul?) keeps existing in a kind of a limbo and is trying to move on.
I understand Oliver tried to write a book about cruel reality of teenage life and high school, wanted to pass a message of values more important than money or popularity.
I am not going for these evil •sshole girls on here!I cringed and raged through most of the book.
I didn't give a rat's •ss about these evil girls.
Whether it was all a dream or something, I don't know but she did good in the end.
The very end was bittersweet in it's own way.
But, going through the books and hearing all of the things the girls did to other people, because they were bullies, was just sick.
I'm so glad that sooooooooooooo many of my friends loved the book with the exception of a few =) 
i dont want to turn this into a rant because i absolutely adore lauren oliver, but this book just wasnt for me.
which is such a shame.because the message of the book is actually a great one - to live your life in a positive way, because you never know how the smallest of interactions can impact someone else - and i love that.
so if i dont like the characters, its pretty much a given that i will struggle with the book, even if the story is a good one.
im still a lauren oliver fan - i just think this book was a random miss for me amongst her large bibliography of hits.
I think Sam believed the last day only happened in her memory and a perfect day included a goodbye kiss to Kent, but then she bothered to give Anna that book and Izzy her necklace and save Juliet.
I wanted to believe that last day for Sam and Juliet and Kent and maybe even a little bit for Lindsay.
Their redemption is up to them; all Sam could do was take what little she could in one day to encourage change in a lot of people.
Review was originally published on my Blog Through the Chapters*3.5 stars*This book has so many beautiful and meaningful quotes.   “I think of all the thousands of billions of steps and missteps and chances and coincidences that have brought me here. Brought you here and it feels like the biggest miracle in the world.”  I won’t say that the plot was original. I have seen that before in a well-known and beloved movie, the “Groundhog Day”. It is a story of an arrogant and a mean teenage girl who,
Review was originally published on my Blog Through the Chapters*3.5 stars*This book has so many beautiful and meaningful quotes.
Brought you here and it feels like the biggest miracle in the world.”
It is a story of an arrogant and a mean teenage girl who, with her shallow friends, cares only about her popularity, parties, boys and bullying her less popular classmates.
Unfortunately, there are so many gruesome stories of bullying and how they have influenced people.
The main character develops throughout the story, improves her mistakes, and by doing that she saves the lives of people who really matters to her.
The premise of the book is not too original - it is a sort of cross between "Mean Girls" and "The Groundhog Day," but Oliver develops it well.
Samantha, one of her school's mean girls, relives her last day over and over again, learning more about herself and people around her with each replay.
Will she learn enough to make a difference, to change her attitude and her life?Being a foreigner, I was spared the misfortune of being bullied by mean girls, I don't have any experiences of Samanthas and Lindsays of this world.
well, well, well,this one was a surprise.yes, teen fiction, you have won me over, but usually it is the stuff on the "oh, no, the world has been essploded!!" or "oh, no - all the cats in the world have turned evil and are coming for us!!" end of the spectrum that captivates me.
those may be my favorite scenes, when a character is reminding samantha of some mean thing she has done and she doesn't even remember.
good stuff.there are a ton of weakly-written moments/characters/subplots but there is just so much momentum to the story that you barely notice it while you are reading, and only really notice it if, say, you start sitting down to write a book review of it.
This was a lovely book to read.
It was a hearty book, full of little surprises that keep the suspense going.
It reminds me of an old X-Files episode called Monday.
"Monday" was inspired by an episode of The Twilight Zone entitled "Shadow Play" (1961).The plot is that of Sam, who is a bully and teases Juliet mercilessly.
Juliet commits suicide by jumping in front of Sam's friend's car.
After that there is a Groundhog Day-like scenario.I won't spoil the ending, but this YA book shows consistency of quality throughout it's entire readership.
It's full of pathos, feeling, mercurial drama, deja vu, and melancholy.
Five infinity stars.I don't think I'll ever read a book that'll touch me in quite the same way.A lot of Goodreadsers didn't like Before I Fall because they couldn't relate to it at all and the characters didn't relate to them.
I know, I know, that sounds bad, but I am in high school, and the things the people do in this book are scarily accurate to what I've come to know is high school over the past year and a half.(view spoiler)[Even the teacher-lust thing.
Please, people, if you only read one book in your entire life, let it be this one.
Some of the thoughts that Sam would think as she would pass from one day to the next were beautifully thoughtful causing you to question how you treat and respect the people and things we have.
How do we (ourselves) treat individual people?
So I would give the author 5 stars to make us question how we treat others.
But all the other parts of the book, in order to get her point across, were rough and depressing to read.
The book may have been realistic but it was depressing to read.
WOW.That would be my one word review for this book...
This book evoked such strong emotion.
For me, the stories that awaken your emotions are always the most powerful and memorable.
That didn't happen right away with Before I Fall, actually it didn't happen for most of the story....
I could see Samantha changing day by day, but I never anticipated what ultimately she had to do.Oliver didn't shy away from the authenticity of the teenage persona.
Not to mention it has a very positive message, for everyone.Cannot wait to read more of Oliver's novels.
Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around it, let it slide like coins through your fingers.
And the truth is, you never really know." This book is one of my most interesting and most unique reads as the story is told in the perspective of a young girl named Sam- mean, petty, selfish and uh, bitchy.
Reading the book will give you the notion that you're aching over the ending, but in truth, you are aching for the beauty of the story.
This might be more of a 2.5 but idk.I might have liked this better if I didn't listen to the audiobook for part of it, but the narrator just gave these girls attitude with their voices and I ended up picturing the characters as that and it was so bad.Basically all the characters, especially Sam (not as much Kent) annoyed the crap out of me and I didn't really love the repetitiveness of the book (though that is the point).
There is a bit of redemption, but for the most part they're just still terrible.The end was pretty great and I enjoyed the book more as it went on, but the first few chapters were just too much for me.
And the truth is, you never really know.“ If I had to briefly describe this book in a single sentence, I’d describe it as Mean Girls meets something that’ll make you thoroughly think about how you’ve been treating the people around you.
But I’m talking about the original Mean Girls movie here, and not about that horrible second part they produced a couple of years later, because “Before I Fall” was truly a great and inspiring book.
I think “Before I Fall” is a book that could provoke the same feelings in some people and would also be a good book to read and talk about in schools.
Wow. On *day 7* and loving this book so much. I want to slurp it up like a noodle.Finished: terrific; amazing teen voice and utterly believable characters -- the "mean girls" made, somehow, relatable! The story is so bittersweet, though I wished ...[SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT:] ... for a different ending for the characters (of COURSE), as a reader, I found the ending very powerful. The cumulative grief of those left behind -- left entirely to the reader's imagination -- is haunting. And how wonderful is Kent? Love him. My new book boyfriend :-)
Truth be told, at the beginning she was a total bitch, but by reliving her last day seven times, she realizes everything she did wrong and tries, and succeeds, to become a better person in the end by thinking not only of herself but of other people.I can't possibly explain the millions of feelings this novel has made me feel.
It really made me think about my own life and all the things I could do better and the people I could be nicer to and that every day can be your last without you knowing.This books also deals with bullying, which is something I really hate but I loved reading about it here because it's really been like a slap in the face.
Before I Fall was a bit repetitive, the constant re-looping and basically reading the same thing over and over again got a little tiresome.
And yeah, I know the premise is that Samantha is stuck in a Groundhog Day Loop, in which the character is caught in a time loop, doomed to repeat the same day over and over, but still.
I also think this would be a really good book for teens to read.
So if you have yet to see it I suggested you do :)Time repeats Meet the mean girlsThe girl they bully
4 ish stars!  “Maybe you can afford to wait. Maybe for you there's a tomorrow. Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around it, let it slide like coins through you fingers. So much time you can waste it.But for some of us there's only today. And the truth is, you never really know.”  This book was intense, emotional, and frustrating- all in equal measure. There are parts I loved, and moments I want to give 5+ stars, but th
Maybe for you there's one thousand tomorrows, or three thousand, or ten, so much time you can bathe in it, roll around it, let it slide like coins through you fingers.
I am not a fan of the way it ended, and I was actually kind of surprised it took that turn...I listened to the audio book and enjoyed the narration.
I hate it when I'm listening to a book set in high school and the narrator sounds older, so that's a plus!
12 hours of a girl learning how not to be the worst person in the world...does she succeed? meh
Sam is shallow, mean and so caught up in high school and in herself that she actually believes that everyone wants to be like her.
You see the good in Sam and her friends but then it’s overshadowed by their sheer stupidness.
It’s amazing though that the author can bring hope to something that seems so final, and how Sam finds a way to truly save herself.Even though the first half of the book is not the type of stuff I generally like (i.e. unlikable main characters, perverted jokes, and scenes that get pretty darn close to going THERE) the writing is beautiful throughout.
The entire novel I was wondering "Why Sam?" What can possibly be so different between her and the other three identically empty girls of her group that SHE deserved the chance to "redeem herself" while the other four didn't.
Why didn't Lauren Oliver feel the need to have the OTHER girls in the group, and let's face it, the rest of the school that bullied Juliet Sykes to ALSO learn the consequences of their actions.
I honestly don't understand why Lauren Oliver hasn't made the other three girls go through the same education that Sam does.
Now I lay me down to sleep,I pray thee, Lord, my soul to keep.If I should die before I wake,I pray thee, Lord, my soul to take. I'm confused about my feelings right now. I have nothing to say and so many words about this book at the same time.  Maybe when you die time folds in on you, and you bounce around inside this little bubble forever. Like the after-death equivalent of the movie Groundhog Day. It’s not what I imagined death would be like—not what I imagined would come afterward—but then a
As the blurb says, this book is about a really popular girl and her friends, going around owning the world, and their high school, and diying.
However, the only groups we could really know more than one person were them (the mean girls) and another trio that looked like their backup.
Imagine you are one of the girls, that get to see one of your best friends dying to save someone that you already don't like.
I just don't think you will like the girl who was saved anyway...So yeah, I don't think things changed...Plus the book was just over.
