https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35832073-calypso
I don’t think I could love David Sadaris more if I tried .....he’s already filled my entire heart - body - mind - soul - spirit - and funny bone with enough uplifting, awesome and amazing, unforgettable storytelling for a lifetime with the collection of these stories.They are passionate and affecting — achingly good - urgent and surprising - contemporary and insightful - playful and outlandish- showing us the beauty in the broken — and ultimately teaching us to choose love.
A few times I laughed sooooo hard ( I’ve done this once or twice with a special book:(Roz Chast comes to mind), while reading sentences to my husband at 5am in the morning- waiting for him to wake - so I could jump him with David Sedaris stories.
“I’m often misunderstood at my supermarket in Sussex, not because of my accent but because I tend to deviate from the script.Cashier: Hello, how are you this evening?Me: Has your house ever been burgled?Cashier: What?Me: Your house—has anyone ever broken into it and stolen things?With me, people aren’t thinking What did you say? so much as Why are you saying that?”Top line Sedaris aslant observations and commentary on family, love, and aging. Some of the subjects are dark, some sadly bitter-sweet, but he's funny. It's good to laugh!
4.5 stars.For me, reading David Sedaris' books is like hanging out with that slightly strange friend—you may think you're crazy, but at least there's someone crazier than you out there!I've been reading Sedaris' books on and off for a number of years, since his first collection,  Barrel Fever , in 1994. In addition to helping bolster my self-esteem, he's always good for a fair amount of chuckling, giggling, and all-out belly laughing, not to mention his unique ability to highlight some of life's
But I wasn't prepared for how emotionally rich this collection would be—on a number of occasions I found myself getting a little choked up as Sedaris pondered growing older, the aging and death of family members, the legalization of same-sex marriage and what it meant for his relationship with his boyfriend, even the mood of the country following the 2016 presidential election.It's funny—in one story Sedaris talks about his mother-in-law, and how she "likes to interrupt either to accuse you of exaggerating—'Oh, now, that's not true'—or to defend the person you're talking about, someone, most often, she has never met." Some of his observations are so outlandish that I'll admit occasionally thinking like his mother-in-law, saying to myself, "That can't be true." Regardless of whether it is or not, Sedaris had me latching on to his every word.I'm not a Puritan by any means, but I'll admit there were a few stories that were a little heavy on bodily functions and feeding things to animals (read the book and you'll know what I'm referring to).
His delivery and timing are perfect with just the right amount of shock value.
Not all fans of a genre like stand-up comedy will find him amusing, but he definitely fits that genre and takes it up another level.As mentioned above, this is the real-est I have ever seen Sedaris – and, generally he seems pretty real.
That is it – he has honed his skills over the years and perfected them with this collection.Do yourself a favor – no matter who you are – check out Sedaris.
If you are already a Sedaris fan, check this out ASAP.
FIVE STARSIt's really difficult to write humor, and nobody does it better than David Sedaris!
David Sedaris was not amused when he found out that name.Sedaris makes every story funny, no matter how inappropriate the subject is.
You will find yourself laughing out loud and think "wait, should I be laughing at that?" He travels the world, lives in different countries and meets thousands of people, but to me, his most hilarious stories involve his family.
How David Sedaris can make you laugh at stories that involve suicide, God, alcoholism and Trump is nothing short of gifted.
Ok, I must admit... I had never heard of this David Sedaris guy, but damn he is entertaining!! These stories, mostly about the himself and his partner Hugh, his parents and siblings ... and aging...just gave me the most laughter I’ve had in awhile! There is one about a stomach virus... I was just 🤣🤣🤣🤣Great stuff here!
He’s on alert, his mind all a-churn, waiting to hear the next bizarre thing being said, waiting to turn it into funny.
What I didn’t know is that he would describe the hysterical title story, Calypso.
(LOL, no matter how hard you try, you will not be able to imagine their connection!) I know that for the rest of my life, if I hear snapping turtle or tumor, I will think of his story.
It’s a whopper.Turns out I didn’t care one iota that I heard the anecdote before reading the story.
Here is the clip, in case you don’t mind a spoiler and you want to see and hear Sedaris, not just read his words.
Ok, so first off, I was laughing out loud within three pages of the first chapter.
Well, laughing and kind of gagging.
Ugh. I’ll let David tell you the whole story.
This is a book that hits you with all the emotions.
It’s the kind of book you want to share with friends, to read paragraph after paragraph out loud to anyone within hearing.
Sedaris is pretty much f***in crazy, but he also starts describing other crazy people and I’ll realize I’m in that category.
Highly recommend this book!
It’s a quick read but one that packs a lot of meat into its pages.
With a reoccurring theme of visits with family (and Carol) at home in Sussex as well as at the “Sea Section” beach house in North Carolina, Sedaris delivers both humorous as well as poignant memories in spades – and even though I know I’m not supposed to quote an advanced copy as anything I was privileged enough to read could still end up on the cutting room floor, this little line sums things up perfectly .
You might not have to love David Sedaris in order to be my friend, but you do have to find people crapping their drawers hilarious.
Combine all the mixed feelings you could ever have about life as well as family -- make your reader laugh, think, and cry -- and then add in the same way the suicide of a sibling -- only Sedaris can do this...
My review, as well as my other thoughts on reading, also can be found on my blog.A collection of twenty-one personal essays on approaching middle age with humor and hope, Calypso stitches together the poignant and the satirical.
Sedaris takes on a wide array of lighthearted topics, from fitbits to vacation homes, as well as more serious subjects, like illness, addiction, and death.
The concluding essays focusing on his sister’s suicide and his mother’s alcoholism are especially moving.
A few of the middle essays drag on, but otherwise Calypso is absorbing and irreverent.
David Sedaris does it again with Calypso. It’s funny, intelligent and brilliant. He’s honest with his feelings and not afraid to share the good, bad and ugly. His observations are candid, weird, perverse and humorous but honest which makes his books worth the read.
One writes out of one thing only--one’s own experience.
Because make no mistake, if you read versus listen to David Sedaris, then you are missing out on another dimension of the stories he shares.With 21 essays, most of which made me laugh to the point of tears, he shares with us snippets from his daily life, moments of absurdity, instances both familiar and not of an imperfect family and all the while digging deeper to find the hilarity in the wounds.
Maybe what all David Sedaris’ work is about?
Maybe what all good writing has to be about for they are really the only constants in all our lives?
As in any collection, there were some essays I enjoyed more than others and a couple that I think would have been better left out.I have this in HB as a BOTM selection but decided to listen on audio after reading rave reviews of the author reading his own work.
This the first book I’ve read by Sedaris so I can’t compare it to his previous works but I will definitely consider picking up another book by the author.Recommended by those who like wry humor and who aren’t easily offended by some R-rated material.
I already miss David Sedaris.
I finished listening to Calypso as an audiobook narrated by Sedaris yesterday, and I would have been happy to keep listening for weeks, maybe months...
In a way, my love of his personal essays is bizarre.
There’s a fair bit of revolting bodily content and he circles over some of the same family dynamics more than once.
What a gift with words!
And what a gift for scrutinizing himself, his family, life and the universe!
Nothing seems to be beyond his interest, and in his adept hands it all seemed so interesting.
This was my first experience with Sedaris.
I'm not a real chatty person to begin with (my husband even bought me a "Do Not Disturb" sun hat to wear to games in order to enable my introversion) - but even without the hat the gods smiled upon me and I was left alone with my earbuds until the entire book was finished.This morning I got in the car and started it all over again from the beginning.
Is it possible to feel nostalgic for a family you don't even belong to?
If so, you'll run through his works in short order and find a giant tribe of middle-aged women who will embrace you into our fold waiting for you at the finish line.
As the Detroit Symphony Orchestra concert was airing on Livestream I opened my ebook and began to read.
I could not read Calypso by David Sedaris while listening to the symphony.I could not read it in bed.
Because Sedaris is ruthless enough to write about life, real life, his life in particular, and we all see our own families and own lives in his stories.I loved Sedaris's chapter on the terrible tyranny of his Fitbit, and how he was adamant that he got to keep his fatty tumor to feed to a turtle.
He's a 'wee' man, he says, and clothes in Japan just fits so much better...He is an American living in England now, cleaning up the environment around him while enslaving himself to his Fitbit.
"Really?" I said to her, "You can't go five minutes without eating?""Do you think she knows there's a baby at the end of this?" I asked Maja after she returned.His Fitbit enlarged his territory which needed cleaning up.We saw David in Arundel picking up a dead squirrel with his grabbers,” the neighbors told Hugh.
The author had me rolling around with laughter on his Fitbit obsession and his lipoma.
Not a full blown review, simply sharing that I adored this book. I don't normally read "compilations" or even straight up humor books but this one caught my attention and kept it until the end. I read it in a matter hours and spent the majority of that time LMAO! All the stars for David Sedaris and his far too funny writing!
David Sedaris’ latest collection of humorous essays, Calypso, isn’t up there among his best books but it’s not a bad read either.
The gossip in me wanted to know more about Tiffany as he didn’t really reveal much of her personal life but I understand his choice to be somewhat reserved.If you’ve been a long-time reader of Sedaris you’ll be familiar with all his family members, so it’s quite shocking to hear after so many books that his beloved and witty mother Sharon was an alcoholic who really fell apart once all her kids moved out.
And isn't filling it with berets the size of toilet-seat covers, if not more practical, then at least healthier than filling it with frosting or heroin or unsafe sex with strangers?"Initially, I wanted to comment on each of the 21 essays, but that review would be as long as the book itself.
It's made to look and feel like actual wood with grain and all.Secondly, in one of David's stories he mentions signing his name to 5,000 blank sheets of paper, which get inserted into the books as they're bound.
You're right, it doesn't look like your normal signature.
Family, mortality, middle age-dom, Donald Trump and public bouts of diarrhea are at the heart of this audio book, along with his obsession over his fitbit, and probably too many more things to count, honestly, I was laughing too hard to try and keep track.
I listened to the first half last Saturday and had been looking for a nice day to head out for a drive I had planned, and was glad the rain did, in fact, go away – and just in time.I have not read or listened to any of his other books, but I may have to change that.
Calypso is a good collection of humorous essays by David Sedaris.
He's a talented performer and I (mostly) enjoyed the book.I say mostly because, like other Sedaris books I've read, he's best appreciated in small doses.
I made the mistake of listening to Calypso in longer chunks, and the snarkiness became a bit tiresome at times.
Sedaris always does a good job of mixing pathos with humor, and this collection is particularly strong with the pathos.Highly recommended for fans of David Sedaris.My rating: 3.5 rounded up to 4 stars
Because it's David Sedaris.
And he lets us into his family of 3 crazy/wonderful sisters and his brother, his Trump loving 94 year old father, his long time partner Hugh, and he lets them be our family too, for a while.If you have never read David Sedaris, this book is not the best place to start.
If you are not a fan, because of his irreverence and outrageousness, this is not for you at all.
But for those of us who are his fans (and there are millions of us!), this book is the best of the best, so far.
Personal and tender, yet hilarious.. for me a perfect first book from Sedaris! These stories are outstanding.. just so darn relatable and the honesty he spills out onto his work is deeply touching. This is an amazing book I highly recommend. ❤ 5 ☆
Personal and tender, yet hilarious.. for me a perfect first book from Sedaris! These stories are outstanding.. just so darn relatable and the honesty he spills out onto his work is deeply touching. This is an amazing book I highly recommend. ❤️ 5 ☆
4.5 enormously funny yet serious starsDavid Sedaris is in your face funny, irreverent always bearing a one two punch with his analysis of the world but mostly one of himself, He is often times impertinent, irreverent, and sassy, but the things he says hit their mark and find a place where they become relevant and profound.CalypsoIn this outing we find David and his family at his beach house on the coast of the Carolina's.
David relates tales of his family, some cheeky and mocking and some with insight that is funny and charming.
Ladies book club selectionAudiobook #189I wish I owned every Sedaris book on audio. He can make the most tragic or gruesome topic hilarious.
[4.5] Calypso is my reward for surviving the mediocre books I've read lately. Sedaris tapped directly into my funny bone with these hilarious and poignant essays. Listening to him on audio was wonderful!
Why I Love ItLiberty HardyWhen I worked as a bookseller, the thing I dreaded hearing more than anything was, “I want to read something funny.” In my experience, you could fill a canyon with books that are sad or poignant, or full of mystery or romance.
He addresses serious subjects effortlessly, never more so than in Calypso, which primarily tackles the subject of aging, a topic Sedaris works into astute observations on his need for—and fear of—a physical, his siblings’ health issues, or his father (who takes a spin class at the age of 91!).
Crazy funny. David Sedaris is the type of person I’d love having around because he says the things we all think but don’t say because they are weird or offensive. I found this book to be a few highly amusing hours! My quick and simple overall: funny and amusing. Very quick to read.
