https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7029455-indian-philosophy-volume-1
i now know better the mahabharata and ramayana, i now have a better sense of development of somewhat unified 'indian' culture, development and some apology for caste (could have just killed the defeated), the attempt to find monotheism in brahma, and by this recount it certainly seems obvious why buddhism has declined as a religious force, as it is both too 'cold'?
Got a philosophical question? India got there first. The two vols by Radhakrishnan and several other "short" introductions to the traditions of the subcontinent are my intro course for the next book. SR makes some great jokes when linking lines of argument and observation in India's traditions to the works of European philosophers. It sounds like after learning his whole tradition, the Euro stuff was a nice review. A refreshing turn of the table.
Comprehensive and thorough. Radhakrishnan writes like your favourite uncle ; calm and composed.
A comprehensive work on Indian philosophy, with even the basics covered..
You don't have to worry if you don't know anything, you can go straight into it..
Because everything is explained word by word..
And that too, like notes.
Reading it is much time-consuming since it is unnecessarily elaborative for a regular philosophy reader..
It's definitely not something I'd suggest to a student for first reading.
It will make you bored like anything.
But if you want clarity in some points, this is where you should go.
But you should be sure about what you want to know.
Радхакришнан вписывает тексты древнего буддизма в европейский контекст и показывает то, что сразу бросается в глаза при их чтении, - что Кант, Бергсон, Юм, Шопенгауэр - просто дети по сравнению с древними индусами. То, что Кант излагает в девятнадцатом веке, индусы обсудили многократно и многократно на этой почве раскололись еще в третьем веке до н.э. Однако глубинного понимания или хотя бы зацепок на будущее эта вычищенная книга не дает. Впрочем, ранний буддизм там - всего лишь одна из частей.
The reason why Indian Philosophy is regarded as one of the best around the world is due to its progressive nature of transforming itself according to the needs of the present time.
Indian Philosophy can be broadly divided into the following periods:a) Vedic Period: 1500 BC to 600 BCb) Epic Period: 600 BC to 200 ADc) Sutra Period: 200 AD onwardsd) Scholastic PeriodThe Vedas are the earliest documents of human mind that we possess.
A god is not necessary to account for the world"The materialists donot believe in the philosophy of Karma.
对于追求spiritual growth的人，我强烈推荐这本书。“奥义书的哲学”一章是本书的精华，作者非常清晰地解释了这个世界与Brahma/Atman (神，是absolute，infinite) 的关系。作者解释了Sankara（中文名商羯罗，他的观点类似黑格尔的absolute idealism）和 Ramanuja（单神论）的观点，并且把二者统一了起来：Sankara是从intelligence出发能够达到的最终解释，而Ramanuja的解释满足了人们对宗教和devotion的需要。从intelligence的角度说，单神论无法令人满意的，需要再进一步，推出absolute、infinite的存在。但是另一方面，absolute是冷冰冰的抽象，而人民大众需要一个活生生的神来崇拜的。我同意在现象世界里，subject, object, concept/idea都是相对的，这个相对的世界的背后应该有一个超越，即Absolute，这个世界是这个absolute的实现和展现。 但是，我不同意书中的以下观点：1. 认为神是完美的，pure, changeless。 他认为尽管这个world也在演化，它最终演化成最初的神的完美 － 所以这个演化过程是摆脱ignorance、回归原始的完美。我不同意，我认为神是演化的潜力，无所谓完美、pure。我理解的神更接近于书中的maya (从神演化出这个世界的神秘潜能)。2. 认为个体的spiritual growth的终极目标是消除个性（individuality），回归神，与神融合。我不同意，我支持荣格的观点，与神完全融合、消除个性是一种回退（regression）。3. 认为个体的本质是Brahma(即the Absolute)。我认为龙树用性空解释现象世界的万物更有道理。作者对释迦牟尼原始教义的解释也还行，没有“Indian Buddhism，by A.K. Warder”好。作者认为释迦牟尼在形而上接受奥义书，只是被问及时保持沉默。释迦牟尼对现象世界和道德的解释的确和奥义书不矛盾，甚至可以互相补充。对瑜伽行（唯实论）和龙树的中论的解释是本书的第二个精华。根据作者的介绍，佛学的不同流派在形而上有以下的不同观点（不一定按时间顺序）：1. 认为object（外在物体）和subject（主体，即人）都是实有的，主体通过perception可以客观地了解客体自身的性质。2. 认为主体所认知的客体其实都是idea, representation，是有赖于主体的认知。客体自身的属性不可知。这和康德（快一千年后了）比较接近，但是康德对时间、空间的理解要深入多了。3. 瑜伽行对这个不可知的客体不满意，所以认为它们是不存在的，存在的只有意识。这又分两种（作者说瑜伽行的教义把这两种混淆在一起了）：3.1 主体／个体以及他们的个人意识是实有的。我和作者对此观点都不以为然。3.2 主体／个体以及他们的个人意识不是实有的，也是相对的，conditioned，而一个超越现象世界之外的absolute universal consciousness是实有的。这其实和Absolute Idealism比较接近了，只是瑜伽行彻底否定客体，而Absolute Idealism认为主体和客体的真实程度是一致的，都是现象世界里的相对的真实。因为否定了objects，瑜伽行需要解释为什么有因果：一个“因”通过什么手段在一段时间之后产生“果”。瑜伽行引入了第七识（有的教义是第八识），它是用来储存“因”产生的种子，种子在以后产生“果”。这个识和潜意识、尤其是荣格的原型相似。瑜伽行的观点类似Subjective idealism。4. 龙树的中观，认为现象世界里的一切（subject, object, concept/idea)都是相对的，变化的，没有essence，是conditioned，不是独立的。龙树和释迦牟尼一样，没有谈形而上的问题。印度的哲学发展到这，Sankara的观点（与黑格尔的Absolute Idealism相似）就水到渠成了。第二卷里有详细介绍，我还没有读。这本书的第一版是1923年出版，第二版是1929年。第二版在正文的改动应该极少，只是多了一个20页的附录（比如作者解释了为什么他认为释迦牟尼在形而上很可能接受奥义书的观点），以及不重要的尾注。我读的是1996年版（ISBN 0195638190）。2009年的版（ISBN: 019569841X）应该只是多了一个别人写的介绍。
This is a standard version of Indian Philosophical thoughts that I'd safely recommend for all students of philosophy.
Volume 1 of Indian Philosophy by Radhakrishnan, an Advaita himself, mostly deals with the early philosophical texts that originated here.
Radhakrishnan was a grand master in philosophy and he did a huge contribution to the Indian School of thought vis-a-vis the Western 'organized' schools.
This is also a must read for all students of comparative religions.I am on my religious voyage currently and this book made me sail through early Indian texts seamlessly.
I bought this book to validate one of my friend's claim who during our discussions mentioned that Hinduism as a religion has been strongly influenced by Greek religion and cited it as the reason for similar God's in both histories.
The author discusses the key teachings of Vedas, Upanishads, Epics (Ramayana and Mahabharata), Jainism and Buddhism along with there chronological development and influence on each other.
The book has tone and writing style of a college textbook which makes it a difficult read.
For people who want to know how Indians, that tribe to the east of River Indus developed a way of life from pre historic times to the time of Ramanujam, this is a must read.
One can't help but wonder how people realized the potential of looking in wards and understanding life.
Dr. Radhakrishnan explains in detail about philosophies that have evolved as an off shoot of this thinking of going inwards.
At the end of the book, you feel proud that our ancestors were the first in the world to be using their brains to understand the universe around us in simple thoughts.
A must read for people interested in philosophy...
Great book to introduce the Indian philosophy. A bit biased but perhaps that is understandable when considering the place of that philosophy when the book came out.The language is academic but not too hard and it covers the vast ideas of the sub-continent. I am looking forward to read 2nd part. Hey!! if anyone has this and want to share...
Aargh, this was impossible to read. It's written in that early 20th century, dense British scholarly style...I kept trying until finally the library needed it back. Maybe some other time, or another more accessible book on the same topic.
Read the ethical part, useful and applicable in cyber-ethics study as well.
Good coverage of Indian philosophy from Vedic times, through the Upanishads, and up through Buddhism and the Bhagavad-Gita.
a
Brilliant and exhaustive.It is a study without parallel.
This is a well written book on philosophy. Dr Radhakrishnan has simplified through his language the difficult subject of philosophy. Great work.
