https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7345.A_Tolkien_Bestiary
The vast fantasy universe Tolkien created in all its many colours is complex and stretches further than most others (if not all.)It depicts a huge wealth of races, cultures, languages and creatures.
All in all, there are a lot of them and they all have their own animals that serve them.
It’s all lavishly illustrated, though the images are not the usual romantic images I tend to associate with visions of middle-earth.
A lot of dedication went into this work from a man who clearly appreciates middle earth and has gone to great lengths to illustrate what is to be found there.
In ye olden days of the mid-1980s books and bookstores focused on money and power.
Finances and the law were hot topics...elves and magic, not so much.
So when I, a humble Tolkien fan, discovered this brilliant tome of all things Tolkien I nearly cried.A Tolkien Bestiary is an illustrated collection of Middle Earth creatures.
I reveled in this thick book packed with all manner of man and monster.
It sparked imagination in me in a way few things have ever done.
Being an ardent Tolkien reader and fan of his creation, 'Middle Earth', I snapped it up for a mere £5 note.
This book is a masterpiece, a truly wonderful depiction of Tolkien's creations by a group of gifted artists and illustrators, beautifully brought together by David Day. This is a very comprehensive work that all fans of Middle Earth and it's inhabitants (also of The Undying Lands), should devour, savouring every morsel and enjoying the detail and thoroughness of its contents, leaving no crumbs, until it is completely digested.
Thank you David Day for bringing Tolkien's imagination into 'physical' reality on the pages of this now treasured volume.
Dejvid Dej me je ponovo oduševio, ovaj put sa "Tolkinovim rečnikom". Nakon "Tolkinovog prstena", čitanje ove knjige mi je predstavljalo veliko zadovoljstvo i neizmerno sam zahvalna obzirom na to da je knjiga, poput svake enciklopedije, izuzetno praktična i korisna.

Of course I haven't read it cover to cover. Which idiot would? Okay, maybe a lot of people would, but I did not. However, it is a wonderful, wonderful book and, despite what many people think, is as close to Tolkien truth as possible to get.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
Being a Tolkien enthusiast, I have done a great deal of searching throughout Tolkien's books, letters, and notations made by Christopher Tolkien.
In my search, I have found evidence of direct citations used by David Day.If you enjoy Tolkien, and do not have time to search appendicies, Tolkien's letters, or Tolkien's notations (both J.R.R. and Christopher), then I suggest you purchase this book.
This book is on the money, and there is a reason why Christopher Tolkien has not decried David Day's work - because David Day did his research.
Thoroughly engaging and informative, this book is so, So, SO much more than a simple bestiary of Tolkien's worlds. It is almost a complete history from the Making of Arda ----> and beyond. Reading it one can see at a macro level all that has transpired of note.It details races, animals, monsters, EVEN TREES! Major events are also prominently featured in beautifully rendered color artwork. It is truly a work that I believe Tolkien would have been proud to see affiliated with his universe. Excellent!
More like an illustrated encyclopedia inspired by the medieval bestiary tradition than a true bestiary. There's much more broad Tolkienic lore here than a focused guide to beasts would contain, and the illustrations are nothing like an alchemic anatomy or even an Audubon fieldbook. More often they depict scenes, events, and moods instead. A decent resource, despite the misleading title.
Although there are movies to give visuals, and tons of books about Tolkien's beloved fantasy world, the Tolkien Bestiary stands out to me.
I really love the artwork in this book; no, it's not by Alan Lee or John Howe, but the art is beautiful in its own right and doesn't need to be compared to them.
I bought it for that reason (the artwork) alone, but it's worth reading, too.
I've read nearly all of Tolkien's works repeatedly, and am very much a Tolkien enthusiast and "Lord of the Rings geek" and I think this book is wonderful!
I bought this book many years ago, mostly out of idle interest. I played D&D for a year or two before I read The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, so my knowledge of fantasy critters was already well rounded.This book is a great reference guide to all the creatures Tolkien writes bout in his stories, and the different folklore that inspired him. Some of the artwork is a little abstract for my taste, but it doesn't detract from the book.Even all these years later, I still enjoy flipping through the pages.
As with David Day's other book, 'A Guide to Tolkein', Characters of Tolkein is a comprehensive resource, listing the characters you are likely to come across during any exploration of the Tolkein mythos, be it reading the books, watching the films, or even playing Tolkein-based games. Excellent for those of us who want a better understanding of the subject material, whichever media you may choose to explore it in.
A sumptuous feast for the eyes to any lover of illustrations or fantasy art. Almost refined to a science, Day lists in logical order every beast, humanoid, age and other major Tolkien factoids. But the illustrations, created by various artists from across the fantasy art spectrum, is what drew me in.
This got three stars mostly because I love Tolkien in an irrepressible, nostalgic way.
Frankly, this is not a high-quality encyclopedia.
I thought the entries were organized and linked poorly.
Day should have made better use of some sort of "See Also" tag to make navigation easier.
In addition, the map was incomplete (I can't tell you how many times I scoured the map for a location listed in the text only to be disappointed), and the timelines were confusing.
The writing style was your typical, overblown, inverted-sentence-structure, high-fantasy silliness.
But I just love reading about elves and dwarves and ents, so I still enjoyed reading this.
Preciousssss...Of David Day's three Tolkenian guides, this one is probably the least - that is to say, you probably want to buy it with at least one of the others (I would recommend all three, because they are very pretty and imminently handy for cross-reference).
As usual, the material is pretty thorough and well-researched, but as with all guides, it cannot go into the detail that would satisfy fans like myself who have dug so deep into the legendarium and have become so familiar with all the gaps, 'maybes' and 'I like this thing but do not know how to explain it in a way that is consistent with my setting's that litter Tolkien's work.
Would recommend.
This is a joyfully detailed guide to the world of J.R.R. Tolkien from the people and races to the animals and plants that play integral roles in the Middle Earth stories that Tolkien unleashed upon the world, and not just LOTR either.
Day has made sure that all of those beings and beasts that Tolkien conjured are represented and discussed and with a passion and eye for detail that is deserving of Tolkien himself (I'm not biased...honestly).
Added to this Day has brought together an excellent team of illustrators that use both black and white and colour images to bring Tolkien's world to life even more than it is already.
Fu uno dei miei primi acquisti ai Remainders di Milano, nel lontano 89 o 90.Un'enciclopedia tolkeniana, illustrata con uno stile particolare, molto lontano, per certi versi, da come mi immaginavo io la Terra di Mezzo all'epoca, quando praticamente solo il cartone animato era stato prodotto.Ma il bello di esser vissuto e aver letto Tolkien prima dell'arrivo di Peter Jackson è anche questo: nona aver avuto la fantasia visiva condizionata dai film.
On the one hand, this book is a lot of fun. On the other hand, Tolkien is the last author to read a bestiary about. Time and again you read a term and it's just another name for elf. Tolkien was better at thinking at names for elves than he was of thinking about different kinds of "beasts."This is still a light criticism of the book because Tolkien was REALLY GOOD at thinking of names for elves.
clearly the author knows his shit, but for a bestiary there's far too few illustrations. and more damning, no entry for the main villains of the series wtf? got time for a plant but not for melkor. shame shame
Fascinating <3 Small Tolkien's vocabulary or handbook for better understanding the Middle-Earth characters, landscapes and realms. Never gets tedious and the one should read it every month or so.
Tolkien's world of Middle Earth introduces us to all kinds of creatures that are unfamiliar to us.
But even the ones whose names we know play a different role in Tolkien's stories.
This book is a kind of encyclopaedia of such creatures.
Tolkien's books are full of allusions to tales, myths and legends of his world, but paging through other stories to find them can be quite challenging.
Do you want to know the history of elves, and which ones saw the light of the two trees and which ones didn't?
It's a kind of mental map to the peoples and creatures of middle earth.
I really enjoyed reading about Tolkien's creations and this is a very comprehensive and thorough compilation of a lot of races, places and plants.
If you read all of it, you get a short history of everything that happens in the Undying Lands and Middle-Earth from the creation to what happens after the destruction of the One Ring.
But if you only read about certain creatures it still tells you what is most important about them and where in Tolkien's stories they appeared.A more detailed map of Middle-Earth would have been better but the one provided included ALL of the lands and that is pretty cool.
Love this book!
It breaks things down and explains them in great detail to better help in understanding Tolkien's thought processes, character development and plot structures of his work.
By reading this book, I was able to glimpse into areas of his work that normally I would have missed or misunderstood.
It's a brilliant compilation of information for writers, readers and educators alike.
The vivid colors and illustrations are an added bonus.There's timelines, maps and charts to help with explanations.
Very thorough!I highly recommend adding this book to your resource shelves.
I'm going to be looking into his other work too.Excellent book!
Highly recommended.
To say I was surprised is an understatement; to say I was thrilled can be measure best by the richter scale.
I had never known of this book, I come from a long line of 'GEEKS' who from time to time have made mention of many books concerning Tolkien and his World.
That was also surprising, since the book is offered in many different prints and different priceranges.
I shall not play dumb that I haven't a fig of knowlegde on his world otherwise.
This book is a great tool to use when I need to look up something quickly.
What I like most about this book is that it contains a lot more detail than you would expect while maintaining concise entries.
You can get a firm understanding very quickly, and I really appreciate that in a reference book such as this.This is not a complete guide to Tolkien; it is missing some names and places, but I think it should be expected when dealing with a volume of this small size.
It’s a great book to have for my Tolkien-related collection, as it’s the perfect size to grab and flip through.
“In the beginning there was Eru, the One, Who dwelt in the Void, and whose name in Elvish was Ilúvatar.”This bestiary was very informative of not only the creatures and characters I knew from ‘The Lord of the Rings’ and ‘The Hobbit’, but also of things I had never heard.
It gives details and origins of Wizards, Balrogs, Elves, Hobbits, Orcs, Dragons, Nazgul, Sauron, Dúnedain, and many many more!Reading this book was so much fun, and it reminded me that I’ve not read ‘The Lord of the Rings’ in about 10 years!
An oversized paperback with a purple cloth "binding", this guide is a great companion piece to many of the worlds Tolkien wrote about.
I would advise a reader to use this as a companion piece only as a straight read through is a bit dry and without the central theme of a time period or geographic area to link the subjects, I found myself having to constantly remind myself that things were part of many worlds and not jsut the "here and now" of whatever time period and location from the last entry.All in all it was a good book that sheds light on some fascinating culture, flora and fauna.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.
There was much that I never knew, and even more that I had forgotten.
David Day did a fantastic job with the in depth summarizing of the entries.
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in Middle Earth.
The only criticism I had was in formatting.
I would rather have had sub-headings under certain main headings.
Like having a heading of Elves, then with subheadings of Vanyar, Silvan, Noldor etc.
discussing each in turn, all in one section.
Currently, all headings are straight alphabetical, and the drawback that I ran into was one of repetition.
This maybe isn’t the best book to read cover to cover, since it’s laid out like a traditional encyclopedia, but man is it a great source of information about every aspect of Middle Earth!
Obviously it doesn’t go into as much detail about the topics as the novels, but it gives solid outlines (longer than I expected in some cases) so that readers can easily cross reference events, places, groups of characters, etc while reading the novels.
My only real complaint is that the author chose not to simplify Tolkien’s multi-naming conventions, so there are often multiple entries for a single group rather than just saying “see ____” and listing a main entry.
I feel this book should have had a different title, especially after reading the introduction.
It isn't really about the characters, but is a bestiary of the differrent species, races, plants and animals that are mentioned in Tolkein's great novels.
Because of the nature of the book, there is a lot of repetition - different species can have many different names and are often listed individually.
The stories of these people are also repeated many times, which can get a bit tiring if reading from cover to cover.
However, it is a great reference book and the illustrations throughout are fantastic.
