https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125139.University_Physics_with_Modern_Physics
A holy grail of high school Physics!
Put my money on it.Four people : Young and Freedman and Sears and Zeemanksy have bound together a book of a lifetime for Physics lovers.
Remember that this is an academic book.Yet the writing and the splendor makes you wonder otherwise.
Rare are the set of chapters on Quantum Physics that are delineated to the perfection of a goldsmith.Recommended for anyone with the zing for going deeper that the traditional textbook.Verdict : Benchmarker.
Out of the stack of physics texts I've read thus far in my studious life, this one has to be the best. Very clear examples, very clear and honest explanations of subject matter, and some of the coolest pictures of physical phenomenon available anywhere. This edition covers quantum physics and QED, which is rare to find in a textbook which some would call "Introductory", and is a highly satisfying end to a large, yet highly useful text.Finally, I can take all my old physics texts and replace them with this great book.
This Book IS A good book for Physics
The best book for physics

Great as an introduction, the explanations provided here are on par with Serway's introductory book although Serway's book has (much)better exercises.
I am sure though that there might be another textbook out there that provides those small extra details to go the extra mile.
I think that those subtle points are necessary to produce some upper division students because an upper division student is not the one that only has problem solving skills(which this book is great for--although Serway's is much better) but also understand the physics in a deep manner.
Perhaps one the best calculus-based textbook in Physics. Each section explains every topic in great detail. Examples are exhaustive. Perfect for undergraduate students but I don't recommend bringing it around the campus because its really really bulky. When you want to read concepts about Mechanics, Thermodynamics, Electromagnetism and Optics, this book clearly discusses the fundamentals up to the mid-advance part. However when it comes Modern Physics, things become less interesting because some discussions are cluttered, derivations of equations are less emphasized or expounded.
Way too heavy to read, and too few examples to get a reasonable understanding of several subjects. This is quite impressive considering the length of this brick.
Gr8
Just checking it out
Very useful, well written textbook with examples  A book that is well laid out, clearly and easily understandable.
Honestly, the best physics book I own. So many examples and thorough explanations. It's one of my most cherished textbooks.
My favorite introductory physics textbook
physics concepts in a nutshell
What makes this book stand out to me from the typical format is all the problem-solving strategies it provides through each chapter in neat little boxes that you can follow consistently throughout most problems (very helpful in getting you started!). Overall there's a wide range of colors and images scattered throughout which really aids in the learning curve.I hope more books (especially the more advanced ones that are often riddled with proofs, theorems, and excessive use of mathematical jargon) start adopting this format.
So I got around and read the famous Sears & Zemansky's University physics. This is really a lovely book for undergrad students that are being initiated into real physics. The text is clear and concise, there are a lot of exercises and problems... just what undergrads just starting out need :)This book is certainly up there with Halliday's Fundamentals of physics. Right now I cannot say which one of those books should be on top... both are them are equally good.
I bought this one when I was high school. It's my series of Physics books, University Physics by Young, Fundamentals of Physics by Halliday and College Physics by Serway. I think Young is the most popular for Physics books because of fulfill contents, Its Modern Physics is separated in another part of the book, and the author simply emphasizes it.
With throughout explanations and illustrations, along with problems ranging all levels of difficulty, this is absolutely the best introductory physics textbook I have read. One could easily enjoy reading this and learn physics at their own pace.
I only used the first 3rd of this book, because that's all of the course I did, the Mechanics section. I found that they book was ok, but I found videos online the explained the concepts much better.
There are a lot of interesting stuff here!
logical book
it is the best of alls!
5614665
YAY AGAIN ANOTHER DIGITAL COPY! *Dancing all over the place*
Reading the electro-magnetics and quantum physics chapters for some tutoring. I really wish my school used this physics book! I can actually understand it! Damn you Tipler!
Malaysian High School Physics
Best physics book
its owesome ....!!!!!!!!!!!
calculus-based according to amazon review
Am I the only one who loves this book?
