https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207129.Complexity_and_Contradiction_in_Architecture
Probably my favorite architectural theory book read to date.
Very easy to understand the key points, and complete a useful system of analysis and framing.
The "dialectical narrative" follows that architecture, as lineage, modernism included (in it's best sense), is complex and contradictory.
The greater point is that this implies many other good things about architecture.
The post-modern awful used this as a rallying cry, just as the modern awful used the theories of CIAM/Corbu.
Thus it has been unfairly contextualized (no pun) and should be re-read as theory and insight instigator.
Exceeds even highest expectations. Begins like this (and barely relents):I like elements which are hybrid rather than "pure," compromising rather than "clean," distorted rather than "straightforward," ambiguous rather than "articulated," perverse as well as impersonal, boring as well as "interesting," conventional rather than "designed," accommodating rather than excluding, redundant rather than simple, vestigial as well as innovating, inconsistent and equivocal rather than direct and clear. I am for messy vitality over obvious unity. I include the non sequitur and proclaim the duality.
Why is it that the best theorists are architects who just can't seem to design the type of buildings they advocate?
It's what's made guys like Kahn and Carlo Scarpa and Aldo Rossi and Alvar Aalto into saints.
Though Venturi has many personal idiosyncrasies, he isn't quite so spiritual in his approach to his work.
His approach is encyclopedic and his attention caroms around the globe and between poles on the timeline, from the concentric temple gates at Edfu to the home he built for his mother in the suburbs of Philadelphia.
Part-analysis, part-manifesto it reads like one of those Renaissance Humanist tomes meant to cap a scholar's lifelong study.
Lucky for us, Venturi went on to practice for another half century, producing some of the most memorable, challenging, historically literate works in Postmodernism.
It really helps you to understand the post modernism, let alone architecture ,but also postmodernism theory of art, writing, music, etc .
The first part is amazingly well writen, very well explained and pretty much aprochable to contemporary design and architecture.
The 5 five chapters I think every architect should have in mind when designing.
I grew up very fond of this book and Robert Venturi in particular after finishing it, however I believe some of the last pages where all the examples that he lacked madurity at the time of writing and that adorned himself a little to much for my liking.
Every architect or architectural student should read it he gives an outstanding historical review of many architectural ideas.... From the first few pages you will learn that complexity and contradiction in architecture is a good thing, less is abroad, more is good!
Following a primarily historical line of argument (there are many dozens of photographs of European cathedrals), Venturi makes the case that a building must serve many masters and therefore must do many things: it must accomplish its program on the inside, it must fit in with its surroundings on the outside, it must interface with popular styles and available materials, it must adapt to the future, etc.
Because The Timeless Way of Building is really more a work of philosophy than of architecture, I found it much easier to read than Venturi's book, which definitely assumes a knowledge of architectural jargon (poché, pediment, etc.) and the work of the major modern masters (especially Le Corbusier and Louis Kahn).
Also, the way he uses examples from traditional and modernist architecture shows that he isn't against modernism, but rather in favor of any architecture that can produce complexity and contradiction.The last section of the book, on his works, are a way to see how his ideas were translated in the built form, but I think many of his projects don't achieve the same level of complexity as the ones analyzed in the book or the contradiction is just too easy to read, and doesn't add value to the whole.Regardless, this is a must reading for all of those that want to understand why architecture today is what it is, and as a theorist Venturi is definitely one of the best.
I'm just an architecture enthusiast.
It was difficult enough for me, yet:I'd read Tom Wolf's "From Bauhaus to Our House" before, which recognizes "Complexity and Contradiction" as a turning point and does a bit of mocking.I read it as a "stuff I like" book by a famous architect.
It's full of too small pictures of extraordinary buildings that I'd never heard of and certainly never seen.
He describes them with an academic vocabulary that's probably in Architecture 101.
Mostly I wanted to google these buildings to see big pictures of them.I'm glad I read it, would like to read it again but alas, I don't think I'll have time.
Debo decir que la arquitectura de hoy en día no sería la que es sin el cambio de paradigma del Renacimiento, las invenciones de la revolución industrial y el remate del moderno, porque aunque nos duela aceptarlo luego del moderno no se ha inventado absolutamente nada, se han innovado las técnicas, la rapidez, y la estética se ha convertido en el común de belleza que todos aplauden.
Sin embargo, me gustó el análisis critico de Robert, la estructura del libro y sus explicaciones eran objetivas, las comparaciones entre las épocas, la extravagancia del rococó con el sutil menos es mas del moderno.
That's not because the book is unpersuasive--I imagine it's quite the opposite--but because, for various reasons, I already shared many of the inclinations that Robert Venturi expresses here.
(Those reasons pertain to my personal and social history, maybe even my innate "character," whatever that is, and I won't go into them here.) I too like complexity and contradiction, not only in architecture but also in other forms of expression, and I too am inclined to distrust the pure and simple as likely to be untrue, sterile, or reductive.
This guy is apparently a genius.
Probably the best critical (not fiction) text I have ever read on "postmodernism," or the artistic turn in the later 20th century, despite the attempts of thousands of literary scholars and sociologists and so-called philosophers etc.
Gets it down to something real and concrete and real interesting, and argues the fuck out of his case.
Turns out I've seen a couple of his buildings in person, without knowing who the architect was, and thought of them as the most interesting and welcoming of the surroundings.

The strength of this groundbreaking book on architecture is the succinct way in which Venturi is able to communicate his ideas. The layout of the book also allows you to easily see what he is describing by a generous inclusion of architectural photography that spans history and the globe. A must read for anyone interested in architecture.
The text opens with "I like...", which I love. Traces a historical narrative of complex and contradictory taste and design that runs counter to reductive modernism. And capped off with examples of VSBA's own work, some skin in the game. A perfectly symmetrical manifesto.
I've never enjoyed an architectural book like this one before.
good
Essential read on post modernism for any architect. Puts to words many ideas that are difficult to articulate myself.
what more can be said? a font of erudition, wit and passionate, professorial/professional scholarship.
This book is brilliant - the is not but it's by an architect so cut him some slack.
architettura&arte
this book is LITessential reading for deziners
