https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/968902.Dying_Inside
This could be seen as an allegory about community and how we can be defined both by what we show the world and also the deeper truths that can even be, and too often are, hidden from ourselves.Though it lacks the overwhelming theme of gestalt, I could not help comparing Silverberg’s Dying Inside to Theodore Sturgeon’s More Than Human for its sense of alienation amidst a greater sense of lost connections, of being separated from mankind, and superhuman ability representing hyperbole of distinction.Also, and in a weird, oblique way that is hard to accurately define, I thought of Philip K.
the chapters about the relationship between the two are particularly illuminating in illustrating how Selig's main problem is not so much his telepathy but his fear of openness, of genuine human connection.
and so the narrative is basically an accounting of how Selig grows to understand his own issues and then tries to move past them.in his many other fantasy & scifi novels, Silverberg has proven himself a visionary master of often hallucinatory prose.
one of the really fun things about Dying Inside is seeing how Silverberg harnesses his talents for what is basically the prosaic, diary-like musings of a not-that-special guy with some very special powers.
Dying Inside puts the reader inside Selig's head much like his probing into other's people's mind.
Silverberg puts in a lot of attention to details of a telepath's life, and reading this book is a visceral experience.Art by Leo and Diane DillonI used to imagine having telepathic power is bound to be a lot of fun and come in very handy.
Unlike Silverberg's other sf novels there is no mind blowing sci-fi technology in this book, no aliens, space travel, no world building to speak of etc.
Or, as the most clever man also put it, from hour to hour we ripe and ripe, and then from hour to hour we rot and rot, and thereby hangs a tale."David Selig was born with telepathic abilities.
David, if he could get passed his own obsession with self-pity, and exploit his ability for financial gain at least one part of his life would be easier.
"The trouble with you, Selig, is that you're a deeply religious man who doesn't happen to believe in God." Nyquist was always saying things like that, and Selig never could be sure whether he meant them or was just playing verbal games.
The novel's scenes jump through time, circling and circling back to peck at this theme, diving deeper into the the problem of telepathy, of squandered gifts, and all the while, we as readers are treated to an honestly delightful and revealing look, so I assume, into Robert Silverberg, himself.
I say this because David Selig is absolutely rich with humanity, being funny, flawed, intensely sexual (I think there *might* be a theme here), unabashedly intellectual, lazy, drug exploratory, and an all-around *real* guy.
Dying Inside is likely the most powerful SF tale of a telepath losing his powers that has ever been written, and is required reading for anyone wanting a taste of the best of New-Wave SF from the early 1970s (much better than Daniel Keyes' Flowers of Algernon, in my opionion).
Regardless of how far we should read into protagonist David Selig’s brilliant, lonely, frustrated, and troubled psyche, it is undeniable that Silverberg has presented one of the most unflinchingly honest portrayals of someone losing their creative powers.I also loved the detailed depiction of the social and academic scene of New York in the 1960-70s, which must overlap with Silverberg’s real life to some extent.
The story is told in the first person by a telepath, David Selig, who is slowly losing his ability to read minds.
David, despite his ability to read minds, is almost completely isolated from the rest of society and is unable to form any close attachments.
He is at times manipulative, exploitive, sexist, racist and unable to feel any empathy for anyone (this despite being able to KNOW what they are feeling).
In spite of all of these considerable failings, Silverberg makes us FEEL for David and hope for him to be able to find happiness.
3.75 starsI felt like the telepath, the mind-reader, the voyeur while reading this novel.
Silverberg sucked me in to the mind of David Selig so completely that I had to force myself to take a break from the book after hours of voracious reading to come up for air and perspective.
It appears to be the autobiography of a telepath, but reads like a confession of mind crimes, social ineptness and stunted maturity.
Silverberg succeeded in evoking many emotions from me with David Selig's monologue - frustration, depression, outrage, compassion.
It contained information that would have spoiled the experience of Dying Inside with David Selig.
The bitter irony of Dying Inside is that this man, who is able to read people's thoughts, is so completely self-centered and small-minded that he is incapable of having a meaningful relationship with anyone.Dying Inside is beautifully written, using a series of flashbacks to tell Selig's story as he thinks back on his life.
You might not like him very much, but he will be real to you.Dying Inside is an excellent novel, recommended both to science fiction fans and to people who usually don't read the genre.
Vrlo vrlo ozbiljna knjiga! Psihološki rolerkoster, filozofski najfiniji punjeni kolač, književno generirano mutirani biceps i kvadriceps te fizikalni teorem za jednostavnost kompliciranog. Da, sve je to Silverberg!Premisa je jasna kao pekmez: život čovjeka koji čita misli. Ali kako to Robert radi to je genijalno. Teško je prepričati radnju jer tamo negdje na pola knjige počinje doslovno ličiti na dnevnik protagoniste, no, čita se ludo i brzo. Kraj baš onakav kakav volim, kakav obožavam... otvoren pa da moraš udahnuti nekoliko puta i prožvakati emociju koju ti je pljusnuo u lice. Baš sam uživao! Izvrsna, izvrsna knjiga!
Un dono che si è rivelato una maledizione, perché le sue relazioni amorose, amicali e professionali, sono spesso state interrotte da chi non capiva come lui potesse essere sempre davanti a ogni mossa, azione, pensiero.
E ora, forte di questo potere, scrive compiti e tesine per gli studenti universitari, abile nel riprodurli con quello che sarebbe il loro stile, la loro lingua, proprio perché può entrare nei loro pensieri, esprimersi come loro, essere loro.Tuttavia, il suo potere-maledizione inizia a poco a poco a scomparire.
I believe that it would have been classified as general fiction if it hadn't been written by a famous science fiction author.I have to say that I have met few fictional characters that are more pathetic than David Selig.
He's not pathetic because he's losing his telepathic powers, he's pathetic because he allows his mind-reading ability to paralyze him and keep him from living.
Furthermore, people around him kind of sense when he's reading their minds and it makes them creeped out even though they can't explain why.
It makes it quite clear that David doesn't have a clear self-identity.
But there are some amazing bits too: Selig's moment of communion (and that's a very apt word to use) with a farmer, as a teenager, for example, where he feels another man's oneness with the world.Selig is, of course, self-indulgent and, well, navel-gazing, but the central idea is interesting without having to involve spaceships exploding or government conspiracies.
The moment where she cries for her brother surprised me in its genuineness.The whole portrayal of Judith's reaction to Selig's ability to read her mind rings very true.
I found this book intensely disappointing.
I'm usually very impressed with Silverberg's work, but here he seemed to be channelling the same vein of zeitgeist that gave us Portnoy's Complaint and other laments of the middle-aged white/Jewish guy whose dick doesn't rise as quickly in his forties as it did in his teens.
If he were at all likeable, or even sympathetic, or if the story focused anywhere except inside his own depressed, dissatisfied head, this would be a much better book.
DYING INSIDE is a great character study from an outstanding author, Robert Silverberg.
My own personal definition of the divide is that fantasy is the branch of speculative fiction that addresses the question, "What is the nature of good and evil?" by representing abstract concepts as tangible things.
Whereas, science fiction is the branch of speculative fiction that addresses the question, "What does it mean to be human?" generally by imagining things that are not human and comparing and contrasting humanity with these inventions.By this definition, Silverburg is rightly shelved in the science fiction section.
David quickly discovers that what a person says and what he or she really feels are two different things and that there's really no good time to tell people you have this ability.
Tell them once the relationship is established and they'll feel trust is violated and quickly try to put distance between you.
These questions make for a fascinating story--especially seeing how little David actually experiences life.
The story moves back and forth through David's life, giving us clues about some of the pivotal moments in his life and the pivotal relationships he's experiences.
But that wasn't really the point, rather it was about how someone coped with being different from everyone else with an ability that was as much a curse as it was a gift, and how he coped with the fact that he was now losing his ability.The Protagonist David Selig isn't a particularly sympathetic character, one gets the feeling that his problems are largely of his own making rather than a result of his unique gift.
One cannot help feeling moved by his experiences while at the same time one wants to shake and shout at him to sort it out.A great book and one I would recommend to both genre and non-genre fans alike.
Yine çok farklı bir kitap. Bir yazarın birbirinden bu kadar farklı şeyler yazabilmesi olağanüstü. İçeriden Ölmek insanların zihnini okuyabilen David Selig'in hikayesi. Gücün bilimsel yönünden çok psikolojik tarafı inceleniyor.Kitapta belli bir kurgu yok. Bazen geçmiş bazen şimdiki zaman anlatılıyor. Bu kısımların birbirine karışmaması için kısa bir sürede okunması gerekiyor.
While the majority of the novel is narrated from first-person, Sellig is distinctly aware of his audience and makes frequent asides that reveal his character intimately.
The novel jumps from present time to past moments of emotional significance to the character, with Sellig's awareness of how intimate the information he is sharing is for himself, knowing when he's shared too much or stopping before he does so.
Silverberg approaches the novel in a way you don't see a lot in science fiction novels.
It is a pretty dark and introspective book.
Dying Inside is a book that can make the reader uncomfortable by laying bare the innermost thoughts and feelings of the characters.
It usually isn't pretty, but like it or not, most of us will recognize a lot in what Selig is exposed to.
I can see why this novel is one of the more highly regarded novels of the period.
Some Science Fiction novels age badly.
In some ways this is a novel of its time but certainly highly readable today.
Izvrsna psihološka studija rađanja čoveka iz natčoveka. Kako se osećamo i kroz kakve promene prolazimo kada nepovratno gubimo deo ličnosti koji je oduvek bio naš? Kako kroz novu prizmu doživljavamo okruženje, a kako ono nas u tom umiranju da bi se ponovo rodilo? Pisana u prvom licu, kroz epizode u sadašnjem vremenu i serije flešbekova, nemilosrdno iskreno, lišena patetike, a ipak duboko emotivna ispovest čoveka kome iščezava jedan specifičan dar postaje ogledalo za milion malih smrti koje doživimo dok živimo.
Essentially, it's the story of a telepath, and how he copes with the loss of this blessing/curse of an ability later in life. Expertly developed both story and characters. Grade A Silverberg. Definitely one of my all time favourites.
It could, however, have been a very good book despite this if Silverberg was able to imbue the story with poignance through his writing, but unfortunately Silverberg isn't the author for such a job.David, the book's protagonist and narrator, is a past-his-prime New Yorker that has had the ability to read people's minds from the day he was born.
This, of course, undercuts the importance the reader feels concerning David losing his power, since why should the reader care if all that David is losing is his ability to read very boring thoughts, but more importantly it prevents this story from saying anything interesting about relationships, communication, social interaction, or many other potentially fascinating topics that this premise could touch on.
Although there is a feeling of inevitability in the plot, the ponderous, yet light prose draws you effortlessly forward as you discover by turns episodes of Selig's greatest and weaker moments of power.Telepathy is how Selig relates to the human race, much the way children of today use the instant message.
He could have used his power to play the tables in Vegas or take the stock market (which he does, briefly), but I think the guilt he feels over his 'voyeurism' is what stops him, ultimately.Without trying to give too many details, the end of the book is not to be feared.
As much as he resents his own inability to resist reading the minds of everyone, including lovers, and spoiling those relationships - this ability has come to define him and he does not know how to live normally.At the beginning, it is told in first person, and spoken to his ability, as if that was another person within his own head.
Late in the book, when that relationship is finally exposed, it is again told in first person, and spoken to her.
However, Isaac Asimov probably deserved an award for lifetime contribution to science fiction, and that would explain the award.
This is a well written book that explores a good concept - the downside of being able to read the minds of others - thoroughly.
It's soft sf, content to explore the psychological and social ramifications of the gift/curse without providing explanation of how David Selig came into possession of it.
For starters, I found the book fairly dated.
He doesn't come across as particularly sexist, but at the same time, I found myself irritated at the things that Silverberg presumed that Selig would find in the minds of women.
I think ultimately this is a treatise on aging and impotence, short on plot but long on vision.
He released only two novels in '72, "The Book of Skulls," in which four young men seek the secret of immortality in the desert Southwest, and one of his most renowned, "Dying Inside." After this latter work, there would be no full-length works until 1975's "The Stochastic Man" and 1976's "Shadrach in the Furnace," which work put an end to Silverberg's famous "second phase"...till he came roaring back four years later with the commencement of his Majipoor cycle.
The novel in question, "Dying Inside," finds Silverberg very much at the peak of his considerable powers; the book was nominated for both the Hugo and Nebula awards for 1972, ultimately "losing" to Philip Jose Farmer's "To Your Scattered Bodies Go" and Isaac Asimov's "The Gods Themselves," respectively, in what was obviously a very tough voting year.
Profoundly intimate novel about a man with a psychic gift to read minds.
The focus is surprisingly academic and biographical for such a fantastical premise.
A man who could have almost anything he wanted, his future limited only by his imagination, ends up gritting college kids selling term papers.
He is also blessed with this gift, or perhaps cursed with it, and as time progresses when begin to see a terrible new truth; it is failing him.
The gift that sets him apart, or perhaps keeps him separated from humanity might just be leaving him.
If you met David Selig in real life, you wouldn't like him.
This is how I broke up with her." Thoughts are picked up and discarded and picked up again and it all feels perfectly natural, it reads perfectly fine, and to the book's credit it does its best to give you some answers and closure, even if that doesn't always happen in real life.
Plenty is left unanswered, like how David got his powers: no, the book will never tell you, because that's not the point.
