https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16992.Kingdom_Come
One of the DC’s crown jewels! This TPB edition collects “Kingdom Come” #1-4, plus an epilogue (exclusive of the collected TPB edition), an introduction by Elliot S. Maggin (who did the prose novelization), and a Sketch gallery (including a guide of the characters portraited on each individual cover of the original comic book issues).Creative Team:Writers: Mark Waid & Alex RossIllustrator: Alex RossLetterer: Todd Klein ROAD TO KINGDOM COME This epic tale showing the last days of the DC Super
This epic tale showing the last days of the DC Super-heroes risen from two separate ideas.First, an unpublished proposal by Alan Moore titled “Twilight of the Super-Heroes” (when naing something with the word “twilight” didn’t left you with a bitter taste of shinin’ vampires) where precisely was about a grim future where the main powerhouses of DC have formed clans and they were in war with each other (you can watch in the direct-to-video animated film Justice League: Crisis in Two Earths some of this developed there, and which that said animated movie was originally a “bridge” between the animated TV series Justice League and its following seasons renamed Justice League Unlimited).Second, Alex Ross had done Marvels for Marvel Comics and he wanted to make a similar project for DC Comics, but where Marvels is a portrait of the first days of Marvel Universe, here, it’s a study of how the last days of DC Universe may look.
It is easily among the top 25 (10?) greatest stories ever written for super-hero comics.
The story takes place in the future.
It takes a catastrophic incident involving a group of heroes; the villain, Parasite; and much loss of life to bring the clash between the old and new ways to a head.Alex Ross’s artwork adds majesty and gravitas to Mark Waid’s now- classic storyline.
Waid raises lots of issues about the nature of superheroes and their role in society that became seeds for other storylines (see Marvel’s Civil War).The denouement where three heroes are eating at a super-hero themed restaurant is both touching and hilarious.
This story is about the children and grandchildren of the Old Guard superheroes (think Justice League and the like), who are lacking in finesse, compassion and an overriding need to protect the regular people.
The artwork is startling lifelike and the senior citizen Justice Leaguers are grayish but mostly dignified (though Robin looked like the gimp but that's another story).
He represents a humanity that has put so much of its trust in the Old Guard that later generations have learned to look up to them but now of course they're in fear of the younger breed and they question their lives and the choices they have made.
Well, it is an Elseworlds tale, so it technically shouldn’t affect (or be affected by) DC continuity; I’m certain if you look at the story closely enough you’re going to find all sorts of interesting oddities.The driving force behind Kingdom Come is Alex Ross, who also did the interior artwork.
I’ve been reading comics since I was a kid and we do tend to take this kind of thing for granted, but what would it really be like to live in a world where some people can fly… and others can’t?Kingdom Come is enormously popular, and it’s easy to see why: it’s truly good and the art is, well, it’s Alex Ross.
Three words: Alex Ross' artwork.
Wow!
The detail in this is beautiful, and the way he aged these iconic heroes without making them appear creepy was amazing!
(Which begs the question, "Why do so many artists equate aging with disfigurement?".
It's not perfect, but it definitely has it's moments.(view spoiler)[ An aging Batman is talking to the now-grey Superman, and in mid-sentence Bruce turns around only to notice that Clark is gone.
(hide spoiler)] All in all, the art is so incredible that, even if the story sucked (which it doesn't), you'd be an idiot to miss out on it.
And the book is filled with weird character moments that were so out of place they took me out of the story like, why does Superman need an oxygen mask to breathe in space, or why is Red Robin piloting the UN's nuke?Batman is maybe the one character I thought Waid did justice to.
Superman's story arc from retired superhero to returning hero to fascist leader to saviour again made no sense and was horrible to witness.
The story of the old and new superheroes fighting one another made no sense and the whole point of Armageddon was really forced.
"They move freely through the streets… through the world, but unopposed. They are, after all… our protector."  I wasn't expecting to like this. I really wasn't. It was just one of those days when I have no idea what to read, then remembered someone recommending this, so I picked it up. Imagine my surprise when I ended up loving it. I'm pretty iffy with older comics because of how they are written. I don't really enjoy the way it's written as some of them are written in a very dated way. I pref
Kingdom Come may be a bit dated, but holy crap, the story was great and so was the art.
The story focused on the divide between the older heroes, the ones we all know and love (Superman, Wonderwoman, Green Lantern… you know who they are), and the newer ones, mostly the decendants of the older heroes.
That part, I really, really liked.As for the writing, as I mentioned earlier, reading older works causes a bit of a nuisance for me.
The writing and the story definitely is something that still be relevant for future generations to read.
- While I loved the story, this definitely suffered from some plotholes.
And the writing is ripe with social criticism and politics.
And there are many plots.The story, much like Kurt Busiek and Alex Ross's Marvels, is told from a bystander's perspective, a pastor who has lost faith and begun to envision the end of days.
While the war rages, the humans are forced to become involved and protect themselves.
And are they guilty for having overstepped and become involved in a war of gods, or have the super humans reaped what they've sown?
Another subplot is Superman's path to redemption, which could be applied to all the super humans for failing to protect the humans and uphold a higher moral code.
I love Alex Ross's superhero art, especially on a book like Kingdom Come.
There's the right mix of epic pages with awe-inspiring visuals and panels that use realism to show these still larger-than-life characters as flawed and human, in their own ways.
The character design, both aging up existed DC characters and creating new ones, is almost flawless.And yes, there's a story, too.
And the story is perfectly suited for the art, or vice versa.
It's a story with larger-than-life, almost godlike heroes, who are at the same time flawed humans who make sometimes catastrophic mistakes.
Yes, perfect fit with the art.
Beautiful art, deep and interesting story full of twists and truths hidden behind truths.And really how do you control a world full of meta humans and how do you keep faith.If you're a fan of super hero comics this one is almost essential.
This is just about as bad a book as DK2.There is a Power Girl Boob joke at the end, almost as if Waid read this and realized it had not a single moment of levity.This is dark and right wing reactionary garbage.
Just move to Marvel...look what happens.This just feels like every other stupid dark reactionary DC book of the last 30 years...Alex Ross art just seems like an excuse for the writer to just take a turd on the pages, and hope no one reads it.
4.0 to 4.5 stars.
Excellent graphic novel with incredible art by Alex Ross and a compelling storyline set in the near future of the DC universe in which the "old guard" super heroes (Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern) retired from service and were replaced by a much more brash, violent and careless group of meta-humans who are not so easily distinguished from the bad guys they fight.
The story involves Superman being lured out of retirement in order to help get the world back on the right track.
I liked it a lot and certainly recommend it for fans of the genre.
He's abusing a little the trick of illuminating a face from bellow to increase dramatism, but I love the color palette and the dynamism of his scenes.The decision to depict the superheroes as mature / older versions of their established images is another point in favor for  Kingdom Come  , as well as the adult script with the focus on war and personal responsibility.
And, for all the magnificent artwork, this is still a story about men wearing spandex and what looks suspiciously like oversized pampers and women with prominent chests wearing very skimpy costumes.
This story is about the children and grandchildren of the Old Guard superheroes (think Justice League and the like), who are lacking in finesse, compassion and an overriding need to protect the regular people.
The artwork is startling lifelike and the senior citizen Justice Leaguers are grayish but mostly dignified (though Robin looked like the gimp but that's another story).
He represents a humanity that has put so much of its trust in the Old Guard that later generations have learned to look up to them but now of course they're in fear of the younger breed and they question their lives and the choices they have made.
It all comes to a head when a meta named Agog kills the Joker, who gassed the Daily Planet and thusly killed Lois Lane and the rest of the Planet staff.
Agog and a few other metas chase after The Parasite, an old enemy of Superman's.
Upon hearing the news, Wonder Woman seeks out Superman at his Fotress of Solitude and begs him to return and make the world right again.
The Justice League reforms and Superman's crew goes out trying to turn the new breed into joining the league or being detained.
Wonderful story, great artwork, and a thought-provoking premise.This may strike many as the same basic idea behind Injustice.
This is the setting for the main story which takes place decades later- the time of the super-hero is now.
The grand-children of the old heroes and villains have now spread out amongst humanity and are rather common (a strange jab at the sheer number of different comic heroes of today's comic market?).
A dying man makes an apocalyptic prophecy and it ushers in the return of the old heroes.
That's all I shall say.If you've not read this truly great comic- do so.
(view spoiler)[ After Superman and Wonder Woman build a gulag for non-complying metahumans, they start a riot inside the prison, resulting in Superman and Batman's forces showing up to quell the resistance.
Superman and Wonder Woman get together and get pregnant and live happily ever after.
(hide spoiler)]One of the most interesting things about this is the competing viewpoints of the three top heroes: Superman, Wonder Woman, and Batman.
I love seeing that they have to compromise their perspectives because of how different they are.Perhaps the most interesting part of this is that it's kind of narrated by some random pastor who has been enlisted by the Spectre to reveal to him how Armageddon (the giant hero war at the gulag) will happen.
And there's another thing that occurred to me in the process: Ross didn't just do the art work; he co-wrote the script with Waid, and he models, both visually and ethically, the narrator, a minister, Norman McKay, the non-superhero character, the one we humans are all able to relate to or look up to, on his father.
Yeah, and I don't like it when they do it, either, but by and large they write and conceptualize much better than these boys (Waid and Ross) do.
Will the older generation of heroes like Superman and Wonder Woman abandon their morals to stop their children and grandchildren, who have little regard for human life?
And then there's Captain Marvel/Billy Batson, caught in the middle of it all.So yes, it's a good end-of-the-world story.
But I felt like I was reading a "Who's Who" of DC heroes and villains, which became so dizzying that I couldn't keep characters straight and I really didn't care.
Which brings me to my biggest gripe - Captain Marvel/Billy is the character that this whole story hinges on.
I will say, one complaint I have is that, because of the binding of this book, it made the genealogy chart hard to read because of the gutter loss, however the contents aren't large enough to really warrant any different kind of binding, so I'm not too upset.
However, this could be do to the fact that I've been exposed to a lot of the animated DC material, and they may have used the same themes that are present in this book, thus my reading of this could have been biased.Still, I would definitely recommend this to anybody who likes comics, even if you aren't a fan of DC or have knowledge of any of their characters.
3.5 Stars  "Once, Earth boasted saviors who might have stemmed the tide of destruction. But as you will see, they are no longer the solution.They are in many ways.... the problem First of all, the art work is mesmerizing. But apart from that, I found the story flawed at many parts and especially towards the end. The aftermath of the whole event didn't made much sense to me.
A previous review summed up my feelings on this - Alex Ross does kick-ass covers, but once you get over the fact that his panels look "really life like!" you realize that life-like isn't what you want out of a comic. Do you want Norman Rockwell drawing Bat-Man? Not really. The story is okay, a decent bit of alternative-future, everyonne-dies-but-it-doesn't-matter-as-its-not-cannon fluff.
I believe when written in the 90's it was talking about the state of all heroes becoming gritty in the 90's, which is nice to talk about it, but not all that important in this day and age.
However, I did really love some of the dialog.
I liked the bond you get from all these old heroes, and the fights are entertaining, but overall was kind of disappointed with this one.
More dialog with the original heroes, instead of just really having Superman and Wonder Women being the only two talkers.
Kimgdom Come, sets up an alternate fiction where Superman retires his mantle and kept himself secluded in the fortress.
But time has called him once again because the world needs him.
But is this second coming of Superman really makes him a savior?KC is an exploration of what defines a superhero and how it is separates supervillains.
This Mark Waid obra is more than saving the world, it showcases the intricacies and complocations on how heroes save it.Alex Ross' is the most realistic artist in my opinion.
ABSOLUTELY AMAZING. Alex Ross' artwork was on point, and wow! Mark Waid can write the shit out of a comic book. The pacing, the characterisation all. Came through to deliver one helluva knockout story. Bravo!!
Hiķâyenin ve karakterlerin işlenişiyle orantılı olarak çizimlerin de daha gerçekçi bir anlatım benimsemesi çok hoşuma gitti. Diğer yandan normalde süperin de süperi olan Superman'in amacını kaybetmiş bir insan gibi görmek, ardından omuzlarına binen yükün anlatılışı çok kaliteli. O yüzden keyifle okudum.
It is also one of the most mature story I ever read on comic.
Its a story of what will the world be like If we actually had superpower Individuals lurking around and doing their own brand of justice in the eyes of a normal person.
The Heroes of Old(Superman and the rest of JL) has left, In their place exits a new breed of heroes(or more like vigilante) with unchecked abilities fighting other new breed of villains without any regard in the safety of the civilians.
In the world that humanity seemed to cast aside truth, justice and the ways of the old heroes instead prefer vigilantism.
This was an engaging graphic novel that was interesting and well-drawn, but not quite on par with the other graphic novels I've read ( Watchmen  and The Killing Joke), in part because, despite a novel concept, this story wasn't quite able to handle the broad scope of that idea.This edition came with an introduction that explained the genesis for the story--what would happen if Superman was no longer relevant? The impetus behind this being, what if a desperate world called for a new breed of supe
However, there were a lot of heroes I just hadn't a clue about, and in the climax, when Captain Marvel becomes a major plot point, I literally had to go to Wikipedia to refresh myself on exactly why this guy was of any interest, much less able to put a hurt on Superman.And that leads to my biggest gripe and also my greatest praise--it is, in the end, a Superman story, and Superman is, without a doubt, the most boring of all superheroes.
It's what makes the idea for this graphic novel so great, and keeps it feeling fresh throughout, but in the end, there is simply nothing Superman can't do.
I also read it at a time when I knew a lot less about the DC universe than I know now, and still enjoyed it.
It happened in the 80's after Watchmen, it also happened throughout the 00's after Identity Crisis.(I also think Mark Waid's Daredevil plays against the trend of people thinking heroes need to be hard and gritty, which is what makes it so amazing.) Superheroes, especially Superman, should be about hope.
I still enjoy the book, after reading it countless times.I also get why some people don't like Alex Ross's sequential interior art, because sometimes his characters can look a bit stiff.
Perhaps an intimate familiarity with the minutae of the DC universe is required for the enjoyment of this book, but I found it kinda tedious. The art of course, is gorgeous, and the Superman/Captain Marvel fight stands out (I liked the notion that Billy Batson had grown and thus was now indistinguishable from his alter ego physically), but I just didn't enjoy the rest of it. Nothing really innovative in the characterizations or the plot.
