https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330528.Autobiography_of_Parley_P_Pratt
What's not to like?Specifically there are some fun things about this book:1 Parley likes to say grand comments about how members of the Church are happier than any one else could possibly be.
We just don't speak like that any more.- My personal favorite bold statement: He says he is called of God, just like David of old, and that his mission on earth is more important than David's was.
I guess others have had a hard time with that, but I love history and journal entries, so I thought it was just as fascinating, even if it wasn't as smooth.And you can take or leave the notes, really.
I enjoyed the first bit of this journal of my third great grandfather. He was passionate and poetic in describing his conversion to the Mormon faith. I even read about some of his missions, and was amazed. Then I got bored and moved on. (Sorry Great Grandfather!)
I am not sure if I read this "revised and enhanced" version, I just listened to the one on cd that came out in 2003 by Covenant Audio.
He was falsely imprisoned, suffered much from persecution and was chased out three times from his home by murderous mobs.
He went on countless missions, mostly at inconvenient times but he dedicated all his time and energy to preaching and defending the Gospel.
Kudos to his family whom he left again and again in answering the call to preach.
And I didn't know that he was tracked down for miles by some enemies and murdered at age 50 while away on another assignment!
Pratt was an original and amazing apostle whose life reflected his faith and belief in the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
He worked tirelessly spreading the Word of the Lord enduring unspeakable persecutions and vile and evil acts committed against the Saints of God along the way.
He suffered hunger and thirst including many bouts of sicknesses but remained steadfast and good heartedly loyal to the principles of goodness and faith.
He worked his entire life towards being an obedient and faithful servant of God. He accomplished more in a single life than a dozen or so men.
I love reading autobiographies. This one is great not only to learn about Parley Pratt but also to get a first-hand account of events involving the history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is particularly detailed during the period that many of these church members were living and dying in Missouri.Parley, himself, seems like a guy I really would have liked. He has a very innate spirituality and was also a big fan of logic and debate. It would have been really interesting to watch him as a missionary.
I really enjoyed this one, the firsthand account of Parley P. Pratt's life, focusing primarily on his service in the kingdom. It was especially interesting to read the parts that took place after the saints relocated to Utah as we don't often cover those parts of church history in Sunday School.
Every LDS should read this book.
Truly inspirational.
To top it all off, he was a poet to boot!The book really gives a great look at the early days of the church.
Often we hear the typical histories of Joseph Smith but since we are focused on him so much we don't see how things are going around him.
Surely one of Joseph's greatest successes must have been find such self motivated leaders to keep the church going around him and after him.
Parley surely is one of the great defenders of the Prophet and more importantly the Gospel, and most importantly of Christ.
I enjoyed reading about the struggles and challenges the church faced in the early days through Parley P. Pratt's eyes. It's very intriguing reading about his travels throughout the state of Utah describing the different areas before the many different cities were established. Reading this book gives me a better appreciation for the early pioneers and leaders of the LDS church.
I have read this book at least 4 times and have loved and appreciated Elder Pratt's teachings and his life and his example of sticking to his testimony and membership in the Church, even to the giving of his life for it. An amazing read of early days in the Church. Elder Pratt became my friend through reading his life!
Hard to give any biography less than 5 stars really. What I am going to criticize? That I disagreed with a person's life choices, or that the person lived a boring life? Hardly a reason to knock down a rating.
A favorite biography.
I am a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day saints and really enjoyed reading the autobiography of one of the early members of the restored church.
A very good book that gives so much insight into LDS Church History! Quite easy to read, too. Loved it!
Pratt, a name that belongs to such an interesting man.
Parley traveled to many different settings and most of the time he tells he had to travel on foot, he states.
I was now wholly exhausted," Parley traveled far, but he kept on going and that is what is very unique about him.Parley is a very unique guy because he works hard and seems to stay happy throughout it.
This book is an amazing book for everyone, and is recommended to anyone who is willing to follow through to the last page,of 421, with the amazing man known as Parley P.
Pratt's life and ultimate work - having grown up in the foothills of the valley that bears his name as well.
There are many valuable insights that can be gained from this book, two that I remember primarily were 1) Parley after joining the church wound up having to leave his hard established farms several times, one that specifically I remember he mentioned was one of the best spots and having to leave suddenly to follow the saints again he recalled: on page 92, “I awoke the next morning, and thought of my dream, but I was necessitated, as I thought, to finish my fence and sow my crop before I ceased to labor with my hands.
Some of my favorite parts of Parley's history were his interactions with antagonistic clergymen, his passionate sermons and testimonies of the gospel, and the tremendous detail he provides regarding the severe persecutions the Latter-day Saints experienced in Missouri.Historical writings, such as Parley's autobiography, always give me pause when I think about all that is being left out of the history.
It has given me an even greater desire to learn the history, especially its nuances, of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
All that can be said about this book is 'Amazing!' The main thing I got from a reivew of this disciple's life is that from a very early age he had a desire to live so as to be able to heed the promptings of the Holy Ghost.At the age of 21 he left his newly wedded wife on a canal boat, in obedience to a prompting, promising to join her in Albany.
I read all day; eating was a burden, I had no desire for food; sleep was a burden when the night came for I preferred reading to sleep.
I was especially moved by the account of his time in prison, by his missions, and most especially by his experience living polygamy.
All in all, Parley was a man of God. I KNOW that the main reason I was lead to this book is because I thought my life was hard, and Heavenly Father is trying to show me how to be a devoted member of Christ's church; to sacrifice, whether that means spending your life in prison, spending almost all of your other time out of prison on missions away from your family, or whether living such an unpopular principle such as polygamy.
Parley Pratt is one of the most likable figures from the early days of the Church, and he also happens to be a pretty good writer.The book is hopelessly biased and very selective.
The selection bias is present throughout the work.Still, the book shows the Restored Gospel at its best.
After he was murdered, (I don't say "martyred" as most Mormons do; you'll see why if you read what actually happened) his son finished the memoir.
It's worth reading the account of Pratt's sudden death, but my five star rating is based entirely on Parley's own portion of the book.
Pratt was a colorful character who was one of the more bombastic and successful missionaries of the early Mormon church.While the book was certainly faith promoting for me at the time, I couldn't help but notice the stark contrast from "the way things were" in the Mormonism of the 1830's and 40's (frequent visitations by Jesus and angels, conversions by the hundreds or thousands, speaking in tongues and other spiritual manifestations, bold preaching about the evils of Christiandom, end-times prophecy, etc.) as opposed to the modern-day church in which prophets don't prophesy, Jesus hasn't been seen for a very long time, conversions have slowed to a trickle, and leadership seems hellbent on watering down 19th century doctrines to become closely aligned with Protestant Christianity.
Pratt would be surprised and dismayed to see what the one true church has become 170 years later.
A hybrid patchwork: juxtaposes one of the most thrilling passages I’ve read in either fiction or biography (Pratt’s escape from jail and subsequent flight across hostile country) with a stultifying series of diary entries about visits Pratt makes to his neighbors.
Pratt shines when he knows he’s writing something for public consumption, so I blame the editor who selected which of his writings to include in his “autobiography” where none was intended.It’s quite jarring to read a moving passage of the death of Pratt’s wife, and his tender reminiscences over their life together, and then several pages later he casually uses “my wife” to refer to a living person without ever having mentioned his remarriage.
Surely the editor could have interpolated a brief summary of what happened in Pratt’s life between the two sections.
Most of the best parts of the book were not new to me, having been passed out through the years in Sunday School lesson handouts, but there was enough that was new to keep my interest.
I had a hard time with the end of the book, too, as the author died before finishing, and his son was left to stitch together letters and journal entries to account for the remaining four years.
Up until then, the book read very much like a good historic fiction, except that it was a true story, which made it all the better.
I enjoyed learning a bit more about the beginnings of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as I read.
One powerful section of the book that I found particularly interesting described Pratt's calling to be an apostle and the charge given him to go forth and preach the gospel.
I also enjoyed reading about the various escapes that Pratt made from enemies of the Church.
I didn't enjoy that portion of the book nearly as much as the rest.This was my 2nd time reading this book.
The first time through I enjoyed it quite a bit and probably would have given it 5 stars.
I loved this book - I reserve my 5s for books I think everyone should read.
This is probably the first autobiography I've read.
Was never interested in reading them before.
In an autobiography I was afraid that I would get too much of how the person saw himself and not enough of how everyone else saw him.
More though, he lived through a life and a time worth writing about.
The offhand way he comments on some of the things people did at the time or their behaviors gave me a greater appreciation for how different our two societies are.
I loved the first part of the book when it talked about the beginnings of the church.
I also skipped through several pages of Parley's poetry.
I suppose that's why a lot of his songs are no longer in the hymnbook.
He said 50 of his songs were in the original hymnbook.I loved hearing about his exploring the canyons--Parley's Canyon.
I guess I knew it was named after him, but really--it was named after him!Parley P.
He came home and told the prophet and apostles that they should each learn a language so the Book of Mormon could be translated into that language.
I'm a hugh fan of Parley and I enjoyed reading about his life from his point of view.
It's sad his life was shortened and he only lived to 50yrs old.
His was truly an exciting life although I can see how he could have been very lonely since he was always leaving his wife(s) and children to preach to the world.
Having not been there I don't know if there were parts of his life left out.
I would have liked to know about his relationships with his wives and children.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, although I got the sense that there was a lot left out.
For example, Parley went from being remarried (after his first wife died) to suddenly having multiple wives and many children.
I get the sense that the missing material would have been supplied if he had not been killed so relatively early in his life and so unexpectedly.
With just a few more years, he probably could have finished the book, smoothing out the edges and filling in the gaps.
Still a great book with lots of inspiring stories.
Brother Pratt was an example of a hard worker that truly gave his life to Christ.
Parley is an amazing man who lived during an amazing time in the Church's history.
He was led by the Spirit to get off a boat before his scheduled spot and was guided to the Book of Mormon.
He was baptized, sought out the prophet, became an apostle, went on mission after mission both stateside and internationally to Europe and South America, was driven with the Saints from Ohio, Illinois, and Missouri, was imprisoned with Joseph Smith without a trial, lived through Joseph's martyrdom and went with the Saints to Utah.
I won't spoil it, but I was very surprised by the situation which led to his death.
