https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22402972-fish-in-a-tree
I don’t see why this book shouldn’t be read by every single middle schooler out there.
I wish there was a book like this one when I was in middle school.
Mr. Daniels cares deeply about his students, and when he sees Ally struggling, he tries to help her as best he can.Unfortunately, I have to admit I’ve never in my life had a teacher like Mr. Daniels, but it doesn’t mean the teachers I did have were any less inspiring.
If it were up to me, I’d make this book a mandatory reading in middle school.
(I'm always amused by the irony of a book written about a dyslexic student that a dyslexic student would break out in hives at the thought of being made to read it.) There are places where it reads like an American Girl movie (if the girl of the year ever came from a working class family) minus the musical numbers.
The commander of the tank is the highest ranking enlisted person on the crew.) And you can't fob me off by telling me Ally might be confused.
*Maybe Ally's dad was National Guard called to Active but that REALLY doesn't explain why the family was moving every year.
Ally and her experiences will resonate with many children and teachers. A beautiful, hopeful story.
This was a fairly sweet story, but I felt like it was too much what is "trendy" right now - writing books about children with difficulties fitting in who make great discoveries about their identities and gain sudden confidence.
This bothers me in children's books because the popular girls are always mean, the nerdy kids get beat up all the time, and the teachers don't care when a kid is bullied right in front of them.
I have worked as a reading interventionist in schools, and it would be very, very difficult to make it to sixth grade with no one noticing that a child couldn't read.
There is a mean girl who is cartoonishly mean, a sassy black best friend (SERIOUSLY?), a smart kid who talks like Data (ARGH), a super shy Japanese girl who talks in broken English (*headdesk*), and a warm-hearted cool male teacher who wears funny ties and saves the day while saying things like "It's so brave of you to come to school every day knowing that the other kids will razz you." RAZZ YOU?
And the too-special-to-be-true heroine says things like "Yeah, he's a peach," (because it is 1950 apparently?
Read on the WondrousBooks blog.
"I want to give him an answer, but I have both too many words and not enough." To be honest, this book was an unexpected gem for me.
I liked the cover and I was in for some new books from NetGalley, but I didn't think it would be awesome, I expected a pleasant enough read at most.
Turned out it was quite the amazing book after all.Fish In A Tree tells the story of a young girl who can't make the words and letters stay in place and always feels out of her depth i
I liked the cover and I was in for some new books from NetGalley, but I didn't think it would be awesome, I expected a pleasant enough read at most.
Until a new teacher comes to school and makes her realize that her brain simply works differently and that many of the most brilliant minds ever had dyslexia, just like her.As a whole, the book was very sweet and touching.
It would be so much easier and helpful if teachers cared about what they were doing, that way children would also have a different attitude to learning and would actually do it with desire and would be successful.
It's almost like people haven't read this exact book 57 times already.Apparently I'm in the minority in proclaiming there to be way more wrong with Fish in a Tree than there is right.
Also, as a sixth grade reading and writing teacher, it's UNFATHOMABLE to believe that a child could make it all the way to sixth grade without anyone noticing she's dyslexic.
AND he only has like 13 kids in his class?!As unrealistic as that sounds, it could be easily forgiven if the rest of Hunt's book was interesting, or clever, or different, or interesting.
Really? A student makes it to sixth grade without any educators realizing she can't read?
3.5 stars“Great minds don’t think alike.”
No one.He is the savior who jumps in with his knowledge of reading and dyslexia from his special education classes and he's the one who works with her patiently..But Ally and her friends are the ones who change the climate of the classroom and form new friendships.Albert is brilliant and messy and another oddball.
The three form a friendship that warms your heart.That half-star is for my disappointment that the career educators are shown to be blind to Ally's struggles.
The only thing her first teacher seems to know how to do is to send Ally to the office.
Students will empathize with Ally as she agonizes over making friends, feeling like a loser, and dealing with her problem.
The author creates strong characters that pull the reader into the plot along with themes such as self-acceptance, confidence, and communication, to name a few.The ending doesn't seem authentic because Ally goes from this impulsive kid that is a bit odd to a leader in the classroom that the kids look up to, ask advice, and want to be friends with in a very short time.
And while I'm coming at it from as an adult reader and see some holes, I know that most will want to be on team Ally.
Ally struggles in school, often getting in trouble for flippant behavior that she uses to deflect the teacher's attention to the fact that she has trouble reading and writing.
Luckily, the substitute for the pregnant teacher, Mr. Daniels, is a little more flexible in his assignments and eventually realizes that Ally is struggling with dyslexia.
I think that students who enjoy Wonder will like this one.
I also found it hard to believe that no one had realized Ally's reading difficulties-- sometimes it seems like every student in my school is on an IEP!
This is a book written with so much heart! It's a book for teachers everywhere. Mr. Daniels is the teacher we all want to be. It's a book for any student (or any person) who feels less than or invisible and wants to fit in. I laughed and cried and I really felt everything that Ally was going through. The characters are so real to me...I miss them. This is one of those books that you don't want to miss!!! Get ready for an amazing reading experience! I know it's a book I'll be returning to again and again!
3.5 stars "Everybody is smart in different ways. But if you judge a fish by its ability to climb a tree, it will live its life believing it is stupid" Ally Nickerson has successfully hidden her inability to read from all the many schools she's been in throughout her life. But a new teacher forces her to address the problem, and pushes her to places she'd never thought she could go.This book was fine. 3.5 stars in basically the very middle of the rating spectrum, so I'm just kind of neutral.Ally
Ally Nickerson has successfully hidden her inability to read from all the many schools she's been in throughout her life.
But a new teacher forces her to address the problem, and pushes her to places she'd never thought she could go.This book was fine.
Enter Mr. Daniels, a typical hip, young, change-your-life teacher.
He reminded me of Mr. Terupt (Because of Mr. Terupt), and the counselor from There's a Boy in the Girls' Bathroom.Ally's friends also seemed contrived and overused.
What type of monster does that?Mr. Daniels seemed to favor Ally A LOT.
(view spoiler)[Mr. Daniels was constantly giving Ally awards, and telling her how EXTREMELY intelligent she is.
Ally is so many students that I have had over the years that just needed a teacher to take the time.
Mr. Daniels is the teacher that I hope I am, that I wish I could be, that I want all teachers to be, and that I want to be friends with.
Ally's journey is one that I hope I inspire my students to have.
Albert is so many student in our schools that are just a bit different thus leading to a life of sorrows.
Travis shows that it is never too late to change a kid's life.
Fish In a Tree, by Lynda Mullaly Hunt, is a stand-alone novel about a young girl named Ally Nickerson who enjoys school but struggles in reading.
But when a new teacher arrives, he helps Ally see her true potential.
Combined with a fledgling self-confidence and new friends, Ally takes small steps towards conquering her fears and insecurities.This was one of those cases where the cover attracted me to the book before I even knew what it was about.
Fish in a Tree is true to its title!
I’d highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a pick-me-up read as well as to teachers who might consider adding this novel to their classroom’s shelves.
A story about finding your true friends, bravery and grit; about asking for help when you need it, and offering help when you see it is needed; about realizing that just because you struggle in school doesn't mean you don't have amazing gifts and talents that will take you far.
2. As a teacher I have a hard time believing that this girl made it all the way to sixth grade with no one seeing that she can't read.
5. The reader on the audiobook compounded my feelings about the narrator by giving her the whiniest voice in the world.
I didn't feel sympathy for her at all.
I've taught 1st, 4th, and 5th grade and I have never ever seen kids act that way.
Don't get me wrong, kids can be mean as snot but I've never seen them act the way that Hunt depicts.
I think kids will probably enjoy it and be able to see themselves in at least one of the characters.There are, however, some things that make me a bit uncomfortable about it.
Several of the characters seem like caricatures of certain types of kids: the brain, the girl bully, the outspoken confident kid.
Even Ally herself, seems in some ways to be a caricature of dyslexic kids.
And, the interactions sometimes border on the saccharine.
The narration is good, but adds to the saccharine feel of the story line.
WOW!
I love a book that makes me want to cry when it's over because it's THAT good.
I loved the way Hunt developed the characters in this story...I felt like I genuinely got to know all of them.
Even though the "bully" in this story was dealt with a bit formulaically, the point was made and the lives of all the characters were better for it in the end.
This was an incredibly engaging way to step into the shoes of someone dealing with a life of dyslexia and seeing how the love and perseverance of a great teacher can truly impact a child.
This book is about a girl named Ally, who's in six grade and she has a hard time reading. Ally would also get in trouble to get away from reading out loud. But, when her teacher got a sub for months, the sub realized that Ally was having a hard time reading. So, instead of letting her read, the sub would let her draw while the others read. This book is great because it has lots of actions.
This was an amazing book!
Every teacher can think of a student that has behavior issues and/or an attitude that is inexplicable and annoying.
What did that child need from me?" This book tells a story like this from the viewpoint of a child who is oh so smart & talented in so many ways, but does not succeed in school.
Highly recommended reading for any student in grade 3 and up.
Even if they don't struggle in school, this book will help them develop empathy for those who may.
Also recommended as a read-aloud for teachers!
This book will be a sure hit with teachers. Kids will likely recognize classmates in the realistic classroom. Great message about grit and celebrating differences.
Devojčica u šestom razredu ima disleksiju, a za to ne znaju njena porodica, nastavnici, drugovi iz razreda :shock:. Dolazak novog nastavnika koji prepoznaje problem i posvećen je traganju za rešenjem dovodi do pozitivnih pomaka u njenom samopoštovanju i potrebi za uklapanjem. Sve u svemu, solidno.
It takes a special teacher to peel back the layers of the defensive wall Ally has built and make her believe she is special and can succeed, something she never dreamed possible.For anyone who has wondered what dyslexia feels like from the inside, for anyone who has ever felt "less than" because they did not fit a one-size-fits-all mold, for anyone who has had that one special teacher that changed their life, for anyone who has BEEN that teacher, and for anyone who loves a good underdog story that leaves you cheering through the lump in your throat...I recommend this book move to the top of your 'to be read' pile as soon as you can get a copy!
Loved this book , and while it is geared towards upper primary, early secondary ,I think it is a must read for all adults too who have ever felt ,judged for being different or has lived with the difficulty of dyslexia. Don’t be put off by the title it relates to one of Albert Einstein’s best quotes,
I am fortunate to get my hands on an early copy of this book and this is a must read! Once again, Lynda Mullaly Hunt has created a cast of characters we immediately root for. Absolutely love Ally's friend Albert and Mr. Daniels reminds me of Mr. Terupt in Because of Mr. Terupt - one of those teachers we all wished we had.
:) http://miotrarealidadetinta.blogspot....
Reuşeşte să-i păcălească pe toţi cei care fac parte din universul său: colegi, profesori, membri ai familiei.
Domnul Daniels, noul profesor, este singurul care vede în Ally un copil curajos, care vrea să îşi învingă barierele, dar care nu a găsit încă armele potrivite.
Domnul Daniels spune că nu suntem şi nu trebuie să fim toţi la fel; că informaţia, cunoaşterea pot fi asimilate printr-o mare varietate de metode; că a fi deosebit nu însemnă a fi prost; că puţin curaj nu strică.
"Ca peştele în copac" este povestea frumosului din fiecare copil, a curajului, a strigătului mut după sprijin şi îndrumare.
Ally never knew or told anyone she had dyslexia, and is smart enough to fool everyone to think that she was just not trying.
Ally would think that she was stupid and whatever she did, it would turn out into a disaster.
To make it worse, the mean girls, Shay and her sidekick Jessica would tease her and make her read stuff that they knew Ally couldn't read, such as her name and the ice cream off a menu.
Ally decided to test Mr. Daniels and instead of writing, she drew a black cube.
She made 2 new friends and won class president, but had Shay target her even more.
