https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29.The_Mother_Tongue
I have to share my discontent with the world after keeping the words bottled up inside me for so long.I bought this book about two or three years ago, thinking it might be an entertaining read that might fill me in on some of the historical aspects of the English language.
as if linguistics were some kind of free-market economy where the best product gets the biggest share of the market.Bryson then tries to argue the point with facts that are, while true for the most part, totally irrelevant.
And people should remember that "fun fact" books, be they about natural sciences or linguistics, do not represent knowledge.
The one thing that bothered me the most about this book was a huge error it had on swearwords, in reference to my mother tongue Finnish: (p.
(…) The Finns, lacking the sort of words you need to describe your feelings when you stub your toe getting up to answer a phone at 2.00 a.m., rather oddly adopted the word “ravintolassa.” It means ‘in the restaurant.’"I mean, what the hell?!
We Finns have probably the world's most colourful collection of swearwords.
And nobody says "ravintolassa" unless they do in fact mean "in the restaurant."
Too bad even Bill Bryson couldn't make this terribly entertaining.I have a long history as "the obscure facts guy" at social gatherings, at least, I did when people still invited me to such things.
He didn't get much in the way of interesting material to work with in this case.The book was not without its moments, however.
Too bad the gems were scarce and some of the reading resembled the back-breaking labor involved in mining.While I found the book informative and mildly amusing, at the end of the day, it's still a book about the history of words.

Bryson eventually disagrees with Burchfield for many of the same reasons, though he was unable to cite the internet as a factor.In that way, this book is showing its age -- the chapter on online language use is, of course, conspicuously absent -- but it's got the history part down.
With its in-text references, footnotes, extensive bibliography and index, this book looks almost academic, but Bryson, an American living in England, handles it all with a cheerfully low-key sense of humor -- almost as if Terry Pratchett had turned his eye to grammar -- and even a refreshingly open approach to the word fuck in the chapter on swearing.My one complaint is that, despite being loosely hung on British and American history, for the most part the book lacks a greater structure and ends up reading like a series of interesting facts.
To Bryson, Welsh is "as unpronounceable as it looks", and Welsh pronunciations "rarely bear much relation to their spellings." He then spouts off with a series of jokes that are so ethnocentric and condescending that, if you took them at face value, you couldn't help but feel sorry for the poor backward speakers of silly old Welsh.The problem is, he's completely wrong.
I happened to study the phonology and orthography of Welsh for about a week in that freshman linguistics class (I know, that makes me a big authority, right?) but in that week I learned something Bryson apparently never bothered to look up: Welsh orthography is remarkably regular, about as regular as Spanish.
She recited to me a famous couplet in Malayalam, which said:"Other languages are merely nannies;For man, the native tongue is the mother."I replied that in that case, Malayalam is my mother, and both Hindi and English are nannies.
She had no answer to that!Well, I am glad I stuck to English over Hindi, because this is one crazy nanny - totally idiosyncratic and eccentric, just like me.
And to tell you how eccentric, who better than Bill Bryson?If you approach this book hoping for a scholarly analysis of the English language, you are going to be sorely disappointed.
1★ (DNF)I thought this would be fun. I love words and languages and have a passing interest in linguistics. I started this with enthusiasm and was enjoying his breezy style until it occurred to me that a lot of what he was saying seemed to be anecdotal. You know, limited or no research. Then I thought, well, it was written more than 25 years ago, so things that sounded like old stories to me may have been new stories then – like this one: “The Eskimos, as is well known, have fifty words for type
Then I thought, well, it was written more than 25 years ago, so things that sounded like old stories to me may have been new stories then – like this one:
He obviously means types of pasta.Then he got into some languages I have a smattering of myself – French and German—and I began questioning.
Some of it just sounded wrong, like the quote from an article that says most speakers of other languages aren’t aware there is such a thing as a thesaurus.At this point, I decided I’d read some reviews to see if anyone who knows more than I do felt the same way.
What a hilarious, fascinating, and educational look at our wacky, wonderful, and WAY complicated language.
If English is your mother tongue, this book will amaze and amuse you with interesting tidbits about just how our language evolved into the wonder it is.
If you had to learn English as a second language (and more power to you), then bless your heart for taking on the task.
Bill Bryson turns his sharp-eyes to "The Mother Tongue" and takes us all on a fabulous journey through and overview of the intricacies of human language.
You will laugh, smile, and learn a few things while you're at it!!!
For example claiming that the German preposition/suffix "auf" is unusual among foreign words in that it has more than one meaning...
anyone who has spent any time learning a language will tell you that all of them have words with dozens of meanings (Except maybe Esperanto?).
Almost every sentence has a mistake.It is a collage of newspaper clippings.
I can't go through all the mistakes, I really don't have the time, there are just too many.
I always enjoy a Bill Bryson book.
I love his sense of humour and the way he can turn the driest subject into something entertaining.
Of course that does mean you cannot believe a word of it since he is always looking for the most shocking or the most amusing way to present each topic.
Why ruin a good joke with the truth?So if you are looking for an erudite and trustworthy account of the development of the English language I am sure there are many very worthy tomes out there!
Lots and lots of 'aha' moments:) I enjoyed it very much.
Sorry Mr Bryson, but as a historical linguist of English myself, I cannot take this book seriously.
There are simply too many mistakes that have no place in a well-researched book.
The subject matter is not that hard, so I can only guess "The Mother Tongue" was written in such a hurry that you only consulted one or two sources, where it should have been five or six.
The history of English is not something you learn from reading one textbook; there is a lot of ongoing research and debate.
And most of your sources are a decade or two out of date, even for 1991.
Bryson's book on the English language is a compendium of linguistic trivia interspersed with the author's biased and misinformed musings on the history and features of the language.
Published in 1990, the book was written before Internet changed the way the world communicates and hence a lot of the content regarding the spread of languages is hopelessly outdated by now.Bryson is not a linguist, neither is he a historian.
Bryson's love for his native English is clear enough; so is his painfully obvious lack of knowledge of any other languages.
See my review on booktube: https://youtu.be/fGAGXfXO5uM
It's possible that philologists have changed their terminology and don't use the term "Brythonic" any more (just as they don't call themselves philologists anymore) but even if that is so, later Bryson suggests that Welsh is a Gaelic language, which no authority is going to agree with.As far as inconsistencies go, two stick with me: First Bryson tacitly identifies himself with Britain in the early part of the book, then later on as American...perhaps not surprising considering his Pond hoping tendencies.
One star (and really, with The Mother Tongue, I actually almost wish I could give less than one star, and I have since reading or should I say since attempting to peruse this book actively shied away from trying any more offerings from Bill Bryson's pen, his seeming general popularity notwithstanding, especially and in particular since many of the "facts" the author has cited to cement his claims that English as a language is supposedly somehow superior to and of better and more lasting quality than other world languages are academically wrong, are not the truth or only partially the truth, and for a non-fiction linguistic tome, this just is not in any way even remotely acceptable).
As a person who is not a native speaker, this book is very insightful in terms of how the most globalized language developed (and is still developing).
That's my biggest gripe from reading this novel.Nevertheless, the book itself is a bundle of joy of finding invariably humorous take on how word changed - even corrupted - over the course of time.
With the growing invasion of foreign and urbandictionary.com words, would English become the One True Lingua Franca?
English book fairs are always loaded with people (and bloody, thieving online shops).
But I also hope that these fluent young speakers do not forget their own language.
Some of the stories are interesting, and even reasonably factual, but at other times the failed fact-checking is glaringly obvious--and come on, the perpetuation of the "Eskimo Snow Myth"?I think the lesson here is that as a linguist, I should not be reading popular writings about language.
It's true that there are a thousand interesting things to encounter in the history of the English language, replete as it is with situations of language contact.
I think what bothers me most is the very thinly veiled "linguo"centrism that turns it from a piece of enthusiastic writing about the English language into a poorly-argued case for why English is better than every other language on the planet.
This is a good, concise, erudite, readable over-view of the history, present and future of the English language. Bryson is a funny man and a witty writer and this book ranges from the first recorded sentence in English - "This she-wolf is a reward to my kinsman" - to Cockney rhyming slang, though palindromes, anagrams and the politics of spelling. Recommended to anyone with any interest in our weird, wonderful, ever-evolving mother tongue.
The sole exception is in the name of the Australian Labor Party, which adopted that spelling in the 19th century.Bomboras are in the sea, not in rivers, a didgeridoo is not a form of trumpet, and outback is not an Aboriginal word (though bombora is), and we don't normally say "technicolour yawn": it was a joke put forward by Barry Humphries, not common usage.I could go on and demolish his assertions about the Australian accents (he seems to think that any one of us speaks one, only) and if somebody is going to be arch about other people's proofing, page 139, the first page of chapter 10 needs to be looked at HARD.I like the book, I just didn't appreciate the superior tone of somebody who is, like the rest of us, inclined to slip from time to time.
As a language lover, The Mother Tongue is fun and informative.
The best chapter is the one on what is considered obscene language, not because it feels good to curse, but because it increases your cultural awareness and empathy to think about how a conquering nation determines what words are proper and what words are vile.
It might make you think twice before you correct the way someone speaks with a regional dialect.
Bryson isn't about prescriptive grammar and language elitism, but about exploring the nature of human communication.
Language is a natural and essential aspect of the human condition and the more you know about language evolution and acquisition, the more you should appreciate the diversity of successful communications.
Mother Tongue: The English Language, by Bill Bryson, London: Penguin Books, 1990 (link is to a different, in-print edition).Summary: This amusing and informative book surveys the history of the English language and all its vagaries and perplexities of word origins, spellings, and pronunciations and why it has become so successful as a world language.Has it every occurred to you how many different meanings there are for the word fly?
Similarly, we have the divergences between New World and Old and some wonder whether American English will become a distinct language.Bryson's concluding chapters explore the origins of proper names, our propensity for wordplay, and the history of what are now considered vulgarities (although I think since Bryson wrote, what was censored in from public media in my youth is becoming more and more common).
(And I'm not even a linguist.)All of this makes me question all the other "facts" I don't know anything about, I simply don't know if I've learned more about them from reading this book.The Acknowledgements of the book mentions several people, but I hope for their sake that he didn't follow their advice.
There are so many inaccuracies, facts that are not facts at all and some Bryson attitude issues.I've mentioned the Norwegian example above and other Goodreads reviews mentions that, according to this book, mordern Finnish has no swear words (!) and Bryson's understanding of (to him) foreign languages like Japanese and German leads to wrong or not quite accurate conclusions.
A book like this should acknowledge these things.
Or that Shakespeare gave us no less than 1700 new words including barefaced, frugal, dwindle, and summit?Bill Bryson, an American transplanted to England, traces the history of English on both sides of the Atlantic.
However, the extensive research into the history of the English language makes The Mother Tongue an asset to any reference shelf.>>When Bryson was discussing the simplification of the English language, I couldn't help but think of the newspeak language in George Orwell's 1984...'no need for good and bad when you can just have good and 
Recently I read ‘Made In America’ by Bill Bryson, so I thought it would be appropriate to read ‘Mother Tongue’ as well.
Though there was a fair chunk of similar information in both books, ‘Mother Tongue’ is just more relevant.
Though the format and the style of the books are similar, I would recommend ‘Mother Tongue’ over ‘Made in America’ simply because the information is more relevant and covers all aspects of the English language.Recommended for all English geeks, this book will give you a deeper understanding of the language as well as grammatical structures like amphibology.
You know, there are probably better books on the history of the English language, there are probably deeper books on the nature of linguistics, there are probably a million reasons why you might not read this book - but it tackles something that we all ought to be interested in, our mother tongue, with style, flare and humour.
I read this years ago, tried to read it to the kids at night, but they were just that bit young, and then listened to the talking book recently.
If you haven't had the pleasure of this book yet, you should think about it.
It’s a fascinating and, as is usually the case with Bryson, entertaining account of evolution of the English language.
I don’t consider myself a word or language nerd at all, yet I loved all the trivia, such as those that I’ve quoted below.
As one congressman quite seriously told Dr. David Edwards, head of the Joint National Committee on Languages, ‘If English was good enough for Jesus Christ, it’s good enough for me,’ [Quoted in the Guardian, April 30, 1988].”
I also learned that a lot of the rules we hapless grammar teachers try to impart to our students have somewhat dubious origins.
For instance, I learned that using a preposition at the end of a sentence, as I have just done a couple of sentences before, is only considered improper because a fellow who wrote an influential book on grammar in England decided HE thought it sounded common and ungraceful.
I was also fascinated by all of the words that were once common in Britain that have fallen out of use there, are still in use here, and are now viewed as "Americanisms." In fact, the section on the "drift" between various English speaking countries was very neat.
I hadn't read a Bryson book before; it's unlikely I shall ever attempt another.Many of the 'facts' in the book sounded suspicious so I started looking them up elsewhere and found a great many to be wrong.
Some people giving favourable reviews said that they weren't put off by it—it had been an entertaining read anyway.I gave up; there's no point in learning a collection of made up 'facts', however interesting they seem.The only good thing I can say about this book is that it fired in me a greater interest in the subject, for which I turned to more accurate books by people who actually know their subject.
I feel like that implies that it was voluntary."We in the English-speaking world are actually sometimes better at looking after our borrowed words than the parents were."He also refers to the "n word" as an "insulting term" as opposed to a racial epithet."...the 'l' sound that Orientals find so deeply impossible." WTF, really?
Orientals?"Among the new words the Australians devised, many of them borrowed from the aborigines..." You mean appropriated."Those captured as slaves suffered not only the tragedy of having their lives irretrievably disrupted..." Irretrievably disrupted is what you say when you're talking about adopting a pet, not about the literal capture and ownership of PEOPLE."A second and rather harsher problem is deciding whether a person speaks English or simply thinks he speaks it."
