https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199552.Dersu_the_Trapper
This book is based on the journals of these expeditions and is dedicated to the Nannai / Goldi hunter who acted as guide for Arsenyev's surveying crew.(he looks a bit like Putin, doesn't he?)There are three main attractions in the story for me:1 - the descriptions of the pristine forests of Far East Asia, with their incredible wealth of plant and animal life, the rugged mountains, the marshes, the rivers full of salmon, the beaches inhabited only by seals and sea lions, the majestic tigers waiting to pounce almost on a daily basis.
The recent bestseller Tiger, (2010) by John Valliant, (also a lovely book) clearly takes its inspiration from Arseniev.There's a wonderful page up by Chad Garcia, titled "Watching Dersu Uzala," which describes Kurasawa's relationship to the material.
From what source does such human sensitivity arise?"Sometimes it happens that the mountain and forest have such a cheerful and attractive appearance that one would be glad to linger there for ever.
And such a strong book--in this case I know my feelings are not mine alone.
None of this Hollywood Aragorn-patting-grass-where-hobbits-made-love: no, Dersu the Trapper was the real dilly, an unfortunate kind of human that fantasy and culture have ruined by taking their banality and making it something fantastic, while their counterparts in politics have seen to it that they are properly destroyed and forgotten.Arseniev and Dersu battle tigers, bandits, and nature, while Dersu points up what an infant Arseniev and the other Russians are when it comes to reading the world around them.A classic that makes we want to vanish with my berdianka into the wastes above Lake Hanka!
They get caught in blizzards and have run-ins with Siberian tigers and navigate icy rivers.
The real good stuff here is the window into what life was like in this area a hundred years ago.
Arseniev is remarkably open to discussing the value of Dersu's native beliefs and animism, and he really puts the guy on a pedestal.
He openly discusses the ways that the native way of life is superior to his 'cultured' background.

I read this memoir of Siberian exploration because of Akira Kurosawa's superb film "Dersu Usala" which was based on it.
It's a lot like reading about the Lewis & Clark expedition except that the explorers feel no shame in acknowledging how much the native saved their asses.
There's a lot of respect and admiration in his writing, as much for Dersu's determination to live just past the edge of the encroaching modern world as for the native wisdom without which Arseniev and the rest of his corps of discovery would have perished on several occasions.
For now, five stars, only because I can’t give it six. Wow! What an amazing tale about an amazing man and amazing part of this planet. More later. Thank you, John Valient for turning me on to this incredible book.
Mostly a naturalist's travelogue through east Russian taiga around 1900, this book reminds me of Wallace's _The Malay Archipelago_ with snow and ice. More significantly, it also has the character of Dersu, a native of the area who grew up fending for himself in the wilds. Much of the attraction of this book lies in descriptions of how Dersu reads the clues of the trail, the animals, and the weather, not merely with experience, but often with the logical inference one might expect from Sherlock Holmes.
I love this book and this film about the Russian Far East. Dersu is a member of the Gold tribe--a tribe of hunters of the Russian Far East. He becomes a tracker for the legendary, but also real, explorer V.K. Arsenyev. The encounters with tigers, seals, and just Arsenyev's encyclopedic knowledge of flora and fauna makes this a great story about nature, about friendship, and about what is lost when progress takes over. The book is a classic and deserves to be rediscovered and Dersu is a true hero. Five stars.
Arsenyev's work is a hidden jewel in Russian literature with it's simple yet poetic depiction of the immense grandeur of nature, perilous yet humbling adventuring and relationship with an expectational character of endearing inconsistencies and a gorgeous world view. The reports into the landscapes and many numerous native and migrated peoples of the Ussurian Taiga are truly spectacular crossing many languages, races and cultures.
His task was to map the territory and he also describes the plant and animal life of the area, as well as the people.
Dersu saved Arseniev's life many times.
I enjoyed the descriptions of plants and animals and think any fan of [[John Muir]] would enjoy this book.This is also an action story as you can imagine attempting to survive in the wild and desolate area would be.
There were also descriptions of the different groups of people contacted on this trip and Dersu knew the helpful way to interact with each group, according to their customs and behaviors.
This book is a chronicling of the Ussuri Tiaga in east Russia of a surveyor for the railroad.Much like in Dances with Wolves, the author, Arseniev has a wish to see the Taiga before it completely disappears as civilization advances.
The author's expedition teams face starvation, poachers, and the elements testing themselves and gaining an understanding of the Taiga.I was turned to this by reading the book, The Tiger, By Jon Vaillant, which is an excellent chronicling of hunting a man-eating tiger in the Taiga.Unfortunately, both Arseniev and Dersu met sad and tragic ends at the hands of the most dangerous animal.
An account of surveying expeditions sounds like dry reading but this definitely was not the case with this book.
Arseniev wrote about several of his expeditions to the far eastern reaches of Russia in the early 1900's with a balanced mix of descriptions of the flora and fauna of the region and the adventure of the trek.
At one point he and his men meet Dersu, a native of the area, who truly spent his life living off the land.
Dersu could read the terrain and the weather like others could read a book and had a respect for nature that is seldom seen in today's world.
The character of Dersu Uzala is a composite, according to the introduction, yet he is based on real people and is lovingly and beautifully portrayed, leaves a stamp on the imagination and made me want to go camping again!
and already, the essence of this book is Arsenyev's nostalgia and his loving wish to record for posterity this beautiful possibility -- a way of life, in harmony with the elements.
A. is already conscious of a natural world under threat from the enslavement and oppression of native peoples, callously unnecessary hunting practices of so called "developed" cultures who lack compassion and a sense of interdependence.
Arsenyev predicts the desertification of once naturally abundant ecosystems.
La taiga es una region inhospita de la parte oriental de Rusia, para muchos occidentales es una region desierta. Dersu es un cazador de la taiga, acostumbrado a dormir en el lugar donde cae la noche, con una sagacidad del terreno y la vida salvaje. Vladimir Arseniev recorre la taiga, los rios, las montañas, llevando un diario y haciendo trabajo cartografico, en su camino conoce a Dersu que se hace su amigo, una amistad que durara muchos años y varias jornadas en esta zona salvaje pero hermosa.
Bazı coğrafyalarda insanlar hayvanların tersine rekabet ederek değil birbirine destek olarak dayanışma içerisinde hayatta kalırlar. kitaptan çıkarılacak bir çok ders ve bakılacak bir çok farklı pencere var.Dersu'nun şehir ve temel ihtiyaçlar üzerine konuşması da çok harikaydı. Bu yüzden herkese okumasını tavsiye ederim. Zaten hacimli değil ayrıca akıcı bir kitap.
Um dos melhores livros que tive a oportunidade de ler este ano. Desde o início o leitor fica preso à narrativa, que além de nos relembrar um bocado de geografia daquela porção da Ásia, nos faz pensar a natureza de modo muito diferente. O final é igualmente poderoso. Esta é uma bela história de amizade para se reler de tempos em tempos.
I don't give books five stars very often, but this was an exception. I can't say that this book was the most exciting, or dramatic book I have ever read, but I can say that I looked forward to reading it every morning. I think it might be one of the most enjoyable books I have ever read.
Al di là del "fardello dell'uomo bianco";al di là del mito del "buon selvaggio"al di là del terzomondismo piagnone.Un inno all'amicizia;un inno al rispetto tra diversi;un inno all'amore per la natura.
This was another Book on Tape for the Pasadena-Pomona commute. It's a nonfiction account of a Russian surveyor's friendship with a Siberian trapper in the early 1900's. It has been made into a film of the same name. It's a good story about wilderness survival skills.
This is an important book. And not because it inspired George Lucas' characterization of Yoda, or because Kirosawa's film version inspired elements in the SW films. As a Star Wars fan, I chalk that up to happy coincidence.
A beautiful and unique wilderness story... definitely a classic for any nature or anthropology lover. I enjoyed my time on the tiaga with the Captain and Dersu.
Interesting tale with insights into a very different way of life.
simply the best book i have ever read.
I finished this book today, and the last chapter made me cry, I'm such a crybaby... even when I'd already seen the Russian film, and the Kurosawa version, I cried, sitting on a bus. Yep.
An awesome bromance set in the late 1800s of South East Russia. I can't wait to watch the Akira Kurosawa movie again.
This book was turned into a really great movie in the '70s. The edition Courtney bought me is leather, with nice little sketches througout.
Simply one of my favorite books of all time.
It was interesting to read about the landscape of that part of the world in a time when Russian, Chinese, and Korean settlers were interacting with nomadic people there.
Arseniev titles his book after one of those native men, Dersu, who has lost his entire family to illness...
but lives on alone, hunting and trapping to survive.I must confess that I did not finish the book.
But the survivalist tale lover in me enjoyed reading how to survive a sudden blizzard in the steppes by using reeds to create a shelter quickly.
Arsenyev had to contend with bears, tigers, moose, you name it.
An indigenous man who shows up at the Russian camp in the dead of night hoping for food.
This simple event results in a lifelong friendship between Arsenyev and Dersu.
Dersu accompanies the Russian on two expeditions.
One of my favorite reads in recent memory.
I first saw mention of Dersu the Trapper in John Vaillant's excellent book The Tiger.
Tracked it down on abebooks.com since it is not in print but is definitely worth the read if you can find a copy.
