https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/237701.Caligula_and_Three_Other_Plays
Remember the conversations between the Joker and batman in "The Dark Knight" movie?If they had longer conversations, with Joker questioning his own Nihilism and Batman unable to give a satisfactory response, It would look like this brilliant play.
I collected as much Camus as I could then, from his notebooks to the plays, essays and novels, again, mostly from my parent’s old college reading list that they kept shelved years later.
Again, Caligula, the mad emperor, the incestuous murder, what’s not to love?
THE MISUNDERSTANDING, whose basic plot is first revealed in a newspaper clipping under the prison mattress of the narrator of THE STRANGER, is told as a Greek tragedy.
STATE OF SEIGE is a more political reading of Camus’ novel THE PLAGUE and THE JUST ASSASSINS is about just that, a group of Russian revolutionaries plotting murder.
A strong reminder that Camus can be very bleak when he so chooses. State of Siege was amazing.
Bit too artistic for me (what have i expected from drama though?), but thought-provoking as much as Camus can deliver.
It is interesting to turn to Albert Camus the playwright immediately after reading a dozen Greek tragedies.
Without claiming to equal them, these are at least the models to set oneself.Caligula and Three Other Plays are critical works of the existential imagination.
The first two plays in the book, Caligula and The Misunderstanding tread on the strange border between freedom and criminality, much like Camus's own The Stranger.
State of Siege is by far the longest play in the collection, and my favorite.
Years ago, I saw a performance of Caligula in Cleveland and had always resolved to read some of this author's plays.
I read this after reading The Stranger for a high school class and The Plague and The Myth of Sisyphus for myself. Camus had impressed me for being intellectually honest and courageously forthright, so I was on a roll, going on to read the above and then Resistance, Rebellion and Death, Neither Victims Nor Executioners etc.
I'm not particularly well-versed with Camus's philosophy and outlook on life, but while each of these dealt in some way with the potential meaninglessness of existence (heavy subject matter, there you go), they also celebrated the desperation and foolish ideals that force human beings to keep going.Caligula: Probably the grandest one of the lot, tragic from page one and you just know this isn't gonna turn out well.
Camus leaves room for very human disputes among the metaphysical which is, in my opinion, what makes this play a success.Final thoughts: Holy moly did this guy know how to end a scene!

The review is really just for Caligula.
I read the play a long time ago and did not have much of a reaction to it.
However, re-reading it again, and having digested a lot more Nietzsche since, I found it having a far stronger impact on me.
I feel that Camus' Caligula has the opportunity to be the theatrical equivalent of Milton's Satan from Paradise Lost.
Is Caligula insane, or just ambitious?
Camus here provides us with the antithesis of Shakespeare's Hamlet.
Where Hamlet is paralyzed by the nature of things, Caligula decides to change the nature of things.
Nobel prizewinner and co-founder of French existentialism Camus was a playwright as well as a novelist and essayist. This book presents four of his plays, including the best known, “Caligula.” All were written in the 30s and 40s, with WWII in the backgound. Three of the plays wrestle with the violent politics of that era, and all four with la condition humaine. *Caligula. Caligula is young emperor of Rome. So far he has been a just and good leader. But the recent death of his sister and lover D
The Plague and his Secretary reorganize the town (like the Germans they are big on organization and control), bump off people right and left and turn the survivors into slaves until the hero, about to be dispatched himself, stands up to them—and lo!, discovers that when a man who is willing to sacrifice his life courageously challenges them, their power weakens.
The terrorist hero is a man of conscience: on the first attempt, he does not throw the bomb because the Grand Duke is accompanied by two children.
I couldn't find the edition I was reading, but this is the closest I could find. There were 3 plays in this book: Caligula, The Misunderstanding, and the Just Assassins. I love Caligula the most, as it shows how a leader practices his absolute authority, which hasn't been found in this reality yet. As for the others, as absurd as they are, the theme aren't new, but well-told (or well-written?) and giving us this alternative ideas on how to see human connection.
All the plays are good. An unique collection. Existential point of view. In one play there comes a dialogue " .... you are living on the other side of the barrack." It indicates there are two sides. One is living [ center ] and the other [ marginal ] is not living. Clearly we can understand on which side Camus supports.
Emperor Caligula begins losing his mind after losing his sister and those around him fear for their lives. He wants to challenge the gods and his method is murder.I liked this play. The power of the character and his mania is very clear, and the inevitable conclusion rolls toward the reader throughout. Camus really brings us a tight, well written drama. Recommend.
I didn’t care for state of siege, a poor version of the plague; Caligula was excellent, the misunderstanding was ok, and the just assassins reminded me of Andreyev’s seven hanged and was great. It’s not quite as good as the latter which focused more on the characters executions, but I appreciated the complimentary angle of the play to that work.
Out of the four plays, I could appreciate only two of them to my utmost and the other two I felt I was unworthy of them. Ironies, contradictions and the absurdness of life were scattered all across the plays. Camus is an author which makes you delve in the world of nihilism.
Caligula: 4 starsLe Malentendu: 3.5 starsL'État de siège: 3 starsLes Justes: 3.5 starsThe translation by Stuart Gilbert is outdated and stodgy, but the ideas still manifest themselves without trouble. The introduction (trans. Justin O'Brien) is an absolute must-read.
...This world has no importance. Once a man recognises that, he wins his freedom… You see in me the one free man in the whole Roman Empire....
The plays themselves deserve a better rating than this translation of them.
Short thoughts on the 4 plays:Caligula - An interesting take on Caligula's last days, and an expansion on Camus's general beliefs about the role death plays in our human natures.The Misunderstanding - This seems like a pretty standard modernist era play.
The twistedness, the violence, and the narrative surrealism remind me a lot of Pinter.State of Siege - At first I thought this was going to be a dramatic version of The Plague, but it turns out to be a political discussion about the effects of death and disaster on society.The Just Assassins - Kind of an interesting take on the Russian Revolution, and the reasons why it was doomed.
I don’t know who would have the chops to direct or act such a play, where no one is without fault and perhaps Caligula is the only protagonist true to himself, but it would be stunning to see.The Misunderstanding is perhaps the weakest link in the book.
While the author seems to celebrate the restraint of certain members of a terrorist organization in Imperial Russia, I found little to respect as to their complicity in the murderous ideology which would quickly turn the Soviet Union into a more efficient and successful version of Robespierre’s dark vision.
I don't know which reading I prefer.On the other hand, I feel that State of Siege has some of the best writing in this collection, though it feels like the plot could move lot quicker.The play I have the most issues with is The Just Assassins, because I feel like using Russian revolutionaries was sort of an ideological problem at that point, considering that it wasn't a tremendous secret what Stalin was doing, and by making Russian revolutionaries positive, I feel that Camus affirms, in some ways, the Russian revolution and Stalinism.
And if I happened, by ill luck, to be scandalous, this would result solely from that immoderate devotion to truth which an artist cannot renounce without giving up his art itself." - From the author's preface"I've merely realized that there's only one way of getting even with the gods.
I should say the real tyrant is a man who sacrifices a whole nation to his ideal or ambition.
But I have no ideal...
if I use this power of mine, it's to compensate for the hatred and the stupidity of the gods." - Caligula [43:]"When one loves, one has no time for dreams." - The Misunderstanding [81:]"Those whose hearts are set on justice have no right to love." - The Just Assassins [269:]
Four plays: Caligula, The Misunderstanding, The State of Siege, and The Just Assassins.I liked them all, but The Misunderstanding was by far my least favourite, and The Just Assassins the one I liked best. They were all good, interesting, philosophical, and will bear rereading, although I cannot easily picture any by The Just Assassins being performed.I am sure there is more to the plays than I find, but I think I will not quite grasp some of the philosophy until I read The Myth of Sisyphus and I still do not trust my ability to judge drama as drama.
Camus' essentially novelistic sensibilities drag down what could otherwise be extremely fascinating and effective plays. Caligula, while it deals with interesting subject matter, is extremely awkwardly written, and I wonder how it would work on stage. The State of Siege, similar in theme to Camus' novel The Plague, employs some entirely fascinating concepts, but would likely work better if written by Eugene Ionesco. The Misunderstanding and The Just Assassins are somewhat more effective, but the reader is left rather with the impression that Camus' should keep to writing novels and leave the playwriting to Sartre.
The character of Caligula distills existential nihilism into a single, intense, delta function of angst. If that's your thing this play will really speak to you; if not it might sound a little like the "existential Star Wars" parody video on youtube. Historically speaking it plays up the Drusilla angle pretty hard.
Caligula has difficult and intriguing themes but thankfully, the development is skillful and quite easy to follow. It got me thinking about death, destruction and madness, and I would love to see it staged.Returned it before reading the 4th play tho
Honestly, although he loved the theatre, Camus was a lousy playwright. Stick with Caligula. The other three are less fulfilling. Or emptying. Depends on your feelings with the absurd.
read Caligula and The Misunderstanding. Started State of Siege, but quit. All sucked...
8.5/10
reading "The Misunderstanding"I can't believe I am saying this about anything of Camus' but, I don't buy it.
