https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1205209.Tomorrow_Will_Be_Better
It's hard to believe this book was written over 60 years ago. The subject matter of interpersonal relationships in our lives and everything that can be at work to affect them, for success or failure, is timeless. The setting is Brooklyn in the 1920's, as it was in Betty Smith's highly-acclaimed and well-loved first book, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.If you loved A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, then i think you'd love Tomorrow Will Be Better too!
I liked this very much--actually, more than I liked Joy in the Morning. I liked the shifting narrators--it was mostly about Margy, but it was great to be able to see inside everybody's heads, to know WHY Margy's mother was the way she was, to know what Reenie's fiancé Sal was thinking, et cetera. This book was a little franker about sex than Joy in the Morning or even A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, and I thought Frankie's character was so fascinating to read. And such a hopeful ending. I hope Margy gets the love she deserves.
a sad, sad book - but still fascinating
One of the reasons I like Smith is that she's not coy about sex, and in this book, her heroine has to come to terms with the fact that the man she marries is not attracted to her--or any woman.
As an adult, I find Frankie so sad, and much more sympathetic than I remembered.
In fact, I remembered the end as Margy telling him that some men weren't made to be married.
This book exists powerfully in my imagination; as I reread, I pictured images and sentences that were coming my way.
This is an incredibly mind-blowing book for its time, or even today in some places. Though, the book has many ideas and themes, Smith's treatment of sexuality is absolutely amazing.To give details would to be giving spoilers, and I recommend is a novel way ahead of its time.The first time I read it I was about 14, and hardly understood it. It was only when I thought about it and reread it years later did I understand what was going on.
Aunque, ¿quién sabe?
Al parecer ambas novelas tienen ciertos tintes autobiográficos de su autora Betty Smith.Lo que sí he llegado a ratificar con esta novela es que me gusta mucho como escribe Betty Smith y qie me gustan mucho las historias que se desarrollan en los EEUU de comienzos del siglo XX.Esta historia es bastante agridulce, me Atrevería a decir que a veces es incluso agria y retrata muy bien aquello de "lo que pudo haber sido y no fue".
En cietos aspectos que no quiero desvelar aquí, me ha parecido una historia increíblemente moderna sí tenemos en cuenta que se escribió en los años 40.Por supuesto, seguiré leyendo a Betty Smith
Betty Smith was just a great storyteller. I imagine her to be the Irish version of my grandmother. I still have all my copies of her books from my teenage years because I can never let them go. (Yes, they're chiseled in stone tablets. Whatever.)
This was another great book from Maggie Smith. I just wish it had been longer and maybe continued Margy's story.
How strange! left me feeling really bad/happy/sad/i don't know... just strange. you really feel like you know the characters.
My edition large print, over 400 pp. Line drawing cover, making it look sort of literary. Anyway. I think I should've just reread ATGiB instead (after all, I've only read it once, and that was almost 2 decades ago). Smith certainly does know how to bring her characters alive. Or, half-alive, which is all the luckiest of them ever achieve. An easy, but also wise read... but not an enjoyable one.
A wonderful novel that is virtually forgotten, Smith's "Tomorrow will be Better" takes us back to the tenements of Brooklyn in the twenties.
Smith does little to alleviate the gritty bleakness of growing up in poverty in Williamsburg.
Like "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn", Smith touches on taboo subjects like homosexuality.
Mother's love is shown through a slap, money is short, marriages filled with hope become dismal ruts, but youth is optimistic and Margy Shannon is no exception.
In the end we have hope for Margy, but the odds are against her she is after all just a tenement girl from Brooklyn.
Betty Smith truly knows how to engage her readers with everyday characters. In some places it can get a bit slow, but I still cheered for Margy through the whole book.As I’ve thought about this book, even after finishing it, I am struck by the title as the key to it. I think even if we are not absolutely sure that tomorrow will be better, we have to live trying our best to believe it in order to live lives of hope.
I enjoyed A Tree Grows in Brooklyn so much that I wanted more of Betty Smith.
This book was long ago out of print, so I assumed it would be dated.
I think this book should be put back into print.
So many of the chapters are thought provoking and as relevant today as they were in the day.I read A Tree Grows in Brooklyn in high school and loved it as much at 17 as I did at 61.I also read Joy in the Morning and did not think that it passed the test of time.
My biggest thrill was reading a book not set in the 40s, but written in the 40s.
It was an inside look at a fictional story of growing, life, work, love, parenting, and marriage of life set in the 20s.
Great detail was put into the small things and so much emphasis leading up to the big events.
But suddenly the big events were past and no time, detail, or words given to them.
The biggest shocker was revealed in a last couple words of a chapter and the following chapter would start after.Still very well worth the read and I guess we'll just have to use our imagination for the rest.
darn you Goodreads app.This was a book by the same author as A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.
It was about a girl in Brooklyn in the 20s and her sad life.
Margy grew up in poverty (which seems way worse now that we make more than $12 a week), married into poverty, and basically just lived her sad life where stuff kept going wrong.I really like the way Betty Smith writes.
And times have changed so much, it is just crazy.
Like Margy and her husband got engaged and married all in less than 2 months.
Craziness.
I decided to read Tomorrow will be Better after reading and falling in love with A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.
don't expect this book to quite live up to A Tree Grows in Brooklyn (but then again books can in my opinion) I think the key difference is that while reading A tree grows in Brooklyn I fell in love with almost every character whereas in Tomorrow will Be Better I found myself taking on many of the likes and dislikes of Margy.
For instance I had an extreme dislike for every mother in the book.
Maybe I would have appreciated this had I been older. Read it as a teenager. It was the most difficult of Betty Smith's four books for me to find. I wish it hadn't been the last one I read- it was a disappointment. Very depressing- about three times as depressing as Maggie-Now, which was almost devoid of joy. In my opinion, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is Smith's best, then Maggie-Now, then Joy in the Morning, and then this book.
This book is achingly real. It tells the story of a couple who slowly, painfully, and ordinarily fall out of love. The only problem I had with this book is that it was too convincing, too much like normal life-- except the characters ended up so profoundly unhappy. It took me a few days to recover after reading it. Not exactly the compliment to "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" (Smith's most popular novel), but beautiful in it's own devastating way.
This book really surprised me. I enjoy Betty Smith's works, but this one was quite different from the others I have read. It was as though Betty Smith has led two different lives. One filled with joy and love and the other mediocre and slightly depressing. I felt this novel was filled with the harshness of reality more than the promise of tomorrow. This is one Betty Smith work I will not be recommending to others.
I love Betty Smith. After discovering "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" about 10 years too late I had to get my hands on something, anything else she wrote. "Tomorrow Will Be Better" was a sad and truthful look at the optimistic idealism of young adults looking for a brighter future around the next corner.
I'm trying to put my finger on what I loved about this book because in so many ways it is tragic and quite sad. Without really delving into it, I'd probably say it's because Betty Smith gives me a front row seat to the story. She is masterful at painting a picture of each character, of Brooklyn and the vibe and emotions of that combination. She is quite raw in her descriptions and made me feel for each character.
As much as I ended up loving and knew I would love Tomorrow Will Be Better, I felt like it took a while for a real plot to develop. It was obviously well written and the characters, though sometimes were very flat, were interesting and kept me interested. But in the last 100 pages or so when the plot picked up I was completely in love the story and even found myself crying at the end. It is another wonderfully written piece by Betty Smith.
Totally depressing, I walked around feeling sluggish the entire time I was reading it. Same era as her classic, A Tree Grows In Brooklyn, this was probably shocking in it's day, Margy marries a man who's a closet homosexual. In the end she chooses Mr. Prentiss, but I wouldn't be too sure about him either. She could be jumping from the pan into the fire!
This is my favorite Betty Smith Novel. This is poignant and moving as told by a young woman who marries the wrong man to escape an unhappy home. She suffers a stillbirth and ends her marriage to eventually find a happiness.
Very enjoyable sequel to A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, using different characters but has same characteristics and controlling possessive mothers (multiple). So honestry well written, liked it a lot. I don't know why it's now out-of-print.
Another melacholy book with another weak man and hoeful young woman...Betty Smith's trademark. This book was mostly memorable for me in that the mother-in-law was even worse than my own ex-mother-in-law!
A bit on the depressing side at times, and definitely a crying book, but all in all I really liked this. It was written simply, but honestly, with good characters trying to make their way in the world, wishing and having hope.
I loved this book. It is every bit as good as "A tree grows in Brooklyn" but doesn't get mentioned as often. It leaves you wanting to know more about the characters, I keep wondering what becomes of them.
I read this as a teenager, then sought out all the rest of Betty Smith's novels - I loved reading about a story of young people making it work during tough times, though its scary. Even though it was published in 1948, the sames themes are true today, I think.
Not nearly as good as A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, but had some good moments.
