https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7510.The_Beach_House
I can not stand James Patterson. Only one book, that I have on this list was actually worth reading of his. This book is so simple that it actually insults my intelligence, but that is just his writing in general. If you want to sit on the beach with the water hitting your feet and be able to read a book fast without having to think, this is your book. Actually this is all his books
With *The Beach House*, I found it to be interesting how fast you can read through a book with small chapters.
Two, when Jack saw Peter's body, he was covered in bruises.
However, none of the officials agree with Jack and still claim that Peter had committed suicide.
Meanwhile, Jack gradually builds up a team of people who agree with the fact that Peter was murdered.
All seems lost when the court rules Peter's death as suicide.
That is when Jack and his people become desperate.
Jack and his people are rich but they aren't poor.
It's probably not fair for me to review this book, since I only made it 70 pages in. I just was not interested! My mind was wandering and I'd have to read the page again! I won't know if it's the author or just the book because I don't really feel like picking up another one of this guy's books. Plus, there was a lot of swearing going on too. Just didn't like it!
I'm not a big James Patterson fan, but I liked this book.
-seems like I read a book with short chapters faster because I think, "Oh just one more chapter won't hurt; it's only 1:00am and I can breeze thru another 3 before 1:30." ha!My favorite quote from the book is on page 154, and I believe this is why Mr. Patterson wrote the book.
In all those years, I have never been as distressed by the so called administration of justice in this country as I am today."I recommend the book but be ye warned of the language.
I love a well written mystery book!
And this one was very well written!
When I first read the title of this book, the first thought that crossed my mind, was “I should have read this book next summer, not now...
so near the Christmas holiday”, but now, after finishing it...
I’m so happy that I didn’t wait so long.
I couldn’t guess what the ending would be like and this impressed me.
Usually I guess the ending when I’m done with 50% of a book.
But this time I was impressed to be amazed and kept in the dark.
i read this only because there was absolutely nothing left to read and no way of obtaining anything else to read. it served to remind me why i have never, and will never again, read a james patterson "novel." (term used EXTREMELY loosely.) why are all his chapters 3 paragraphs long? why does anyone buy his books? the great mysteries of life.
Maybe it's because I haven't read a James Patterson book in a while, or maybe it's Peter De Jonge's influence (I haven't read anything by him before), but this story didn't impress me the way most of Patterson's novels -- especially the Alex Cross stories -- have.The story seems rushed, a feeling that's aided by the extremely short chapters.
To my knowledge, Patterson has never written Mitchner-length chapters, but he at least used them to build suspense.
For instance, you would get to a particularly interesting part in the story, something shocking would happen, and then the chapter would end -- the break in text worked as a tension builder.
I am not a big Patterson fan, but I enjoyed this one quite a bit. I read it while stuck in a traffic jam for three hours. I don't think I have ever read a book that quickly. A page burner.
Loved it!
Another good mystery. I really enjoy Patterson's book. They keep your interest right from the beginning.
This is my first James Patterson novel.
This is my last James Patterson novel, unless someone can convince me to give him another shot.This book was T-E-R-R-I-B-L-E!!I downloaded the audiobook from my library and I'm having trouble returning it; computer glitch or my library doesn't want it back?
Yeah, well this book had it's own "dum dum" (eye roll).The story itself was disturbing and so unbelievable -- (view spoiler)[ A rookie lawyer, alongside his grandpa and buddies, kidnaps a bunch of wealthy Hamptonians who are responsible for his brother's death.
Ripping tale, pumped out at huge speed. Loved the characters. What more do you need in a good read?
“As I get closer to the beach, I think for the first time about who might be waiting for me. It wouldn't have been hard to figure out whose voice was on the car phone. All I had to do was open the glove compartment and look at the registration, but that would have spoiled the surprise.” This book was a pleasant surprise. I didn’t like it as much as I wanted due to some strenuous plot points, but it still was a satisfying read. Thriller elements are exciting, the protagonist is likeable and it i
I didn’t like it as much as I wanted due to some strenuous plot points, but it still was a satisfying read.
Though, there is a simple story line consisted of showing money as an instrument of power and the ease that rich have in covering up their horrible acts, in the end, it's a straight-forward detective book for major part of the novel and a few plot twists only heightened the intensity.
That made me realise that I only like this book because it’s plot driven.
When his brother Peter turns up dead with a strong suspicion of suicide, law student, Jack Mullen decides that it is time to figure out what really happened.
Jack brings int he help of his grandfather, a private eye with who he starts to build a relationship, and a small group of locals to try and prove that Peter was in fact murdered and that there is a major cover-up with a surprising and disturbing sexual twist.Jack and his cohorts are forced to take extreme measures when the official inquest turns up a confirmation that Peter died either by suicide or accident.
I can't believe it took me so long to read this book, I started loving to read late in life only about 2 years ago so I am very behind!
Anyway I was going to the beach so I thought it appropriate to take this book Beach House with me and I absolutely love James P and murder mystery books.
The Mullen family has had a very bad week by the beginning of the book, the mother passed away years ago, and by the first half of the book 2 more family members are gone.
Huh!! I wasted almost a week for this book!! I could not switch to other book and at the same time this was not very interesting!!If u want to waste some time read this book
Let me preface this by saying that as exalted an author James Patterson is, his books just are not for me.
My husband- yes, and he is the one who suggested i give this one a whirl.
Fast paced and full of hold -your-breath moments BEACH HOUSE is an attention grabber!
The loyalty of brothers.....the adoration and acceptance of one another and one hell of a bizarre murder.
Proof that the acquisition of money doesn't make any single person better than another.
This book is full of suspicions , friendships, loyalties and manipulations!
I've only read one other book by him, but The Beach House impressed me so much that it gets an ultimate recommendation.It's not that Patterson's thriller breaks a lot of ground in the suspense/thriller literary genre, in fact opting for a simple storyline touching on themes of money as power and the ease the rich have in covering up their dirty deeds.
Effectively moving and comedic at the same time, Patterson's main character gives The Beach House a much more invigorating tale.And as we work our way into James' revenge, the plot escalates so well that it's a relief when we finally learn how James will uncover what he knows is true.
A really terrific narrative...I like books which can be completed reading within a single sitting, so I give 100% to this story.
These are given not as a casual happening but a characteristic feature of the capitalist society.The only idea which I had some objection is the way the narrator treated the HIV/ AIDS issue.
He could have well given another climax or feature for the antagonist’s characterization instead of saying he spreads HIV virus though it is required for the successful ending of the story.
Jack Mullen is a brilliant Columbia Law student when his younger brother, Peter, drowns in the ocean off East Hampton.
They grew up on the beaches of The Hamptons and Jack is convinced that Peter's death was no accident.
Jack insists, "You don't wash a motorcycle twice a day when you're contemplating suicide." The rich and powerful Neubauers, who own the beach house where Peter drowned, know more than they're telling.
Along with his grandfather, a close colleague and five life-long friends, Jack takes on the high-and-mighties of East Hampton to avenge his brother's death.This is more than just a web of lies and deceit.
Slotpleidooi gaat in eerste instantie over gerechtigheid en hoe sommige rijken gerechtigheid kopen. Ik denk dat dit boek van alle tijden is omdat alles wat er in voorkomt altijd al bestaan heeft! Weeral een pareltje van de hand van James Patterson!
Oh well -there's no denying the commercial aspect of the publishing business I guess!That being said, this book helped me through some rough times as I began it while was in the hospital being fed intravenous antibiotics for a massive infection.
It kept me busy without having to worry about complexity of plot while being interrupted often for blood tests and other things that go on in the hospital.
Having lived my entire life on Long Island, I especially enjoyed the setting.
Very realistic in that respect....And I guess public access TV is more than just for stuff like "Wayne's World" :-)!
Buku-bukunya tidak pernah gagal membuat saya terpaku dan tidak melepaskan pandangan dari kalimat-kalimat yang terpampang.Jack Mullen, mahasiswa hukum tahun kedua, pulang berakhir pekan kerumah orangtuanya dan disambut dengan berita kematian adiknya Peter.
Polisi menyatakan kematian Peter adalah karena tenggelam dilaut, sedangkan tubuh Peter dipenuhi memar-memar bekas pukulan dan banyak tulang retak.Tidak puas dengan pernyataan polisi, Jack dan teman-temannya berniat menyelidiki kematian adiknya.
Tapi Jack yang gigih walaupun pengadilan sudah menyatakan kematian Peter adalah karena tenggelam terus menggali kasus adiknya tersebut.Dalam penyelidikannya ini Jack harus berhadapan dengan keluarga Neubauer, miliarder kaya pemilik rumah pantai tempat lokasi kematian Peter.
Jack is working as a summer intern in a big league firm that is runs a project that helps people get off of death row.
Jack's younger brother Peter was working the big beginning of summer beach party.
Peter is found washed up on the beach after the party.
Jack doesn't believe it and tries to find out what really happens.
But the wealthy involved are doing everything that they can to keep what really happened under wraps.As usual with Patterson, this story is well written and keeps you turning pages.
A good read from the first page.
I read this on the iPad. Intriguing story and not nearly as repetitive as Grisham.s Sycamore Row. Patterson finds a way to tell the story without exposing the reader to all the evidence before the trial.
Well done Mr. Patterson.
I enjoyed reading this.Jack Mullen is a driven student of the law.
His brother Peter is a servant of the rich, parking the cars of the Hamptons' elite --- and perhaps satisfying their more intimate needs as well.
Then Peter's body is found on the beach.
Now Jack is learning a lesson in justice he never got in law school ...
Just. Such. Awful. Crap. Why did I finish? I'll admit that at first I was drawn in by the lure of handsome young brothers in the Hamptons; one murdered, one seeking justice. But it quickly became entirely ridiculous. Still, I kept telling myself that it couldn't get worse. Or more puerile. Or hackneyed. But it was a bottomless drop. And then that became a kind of fascination. A hideous, grimace-making fascination. Which might be a reason to pick this up. If you have superfluous brain cells to kill.
The author’s two page chapters and breathless descriptions careen through the parallel worlds of the super-rich and the often unimpressed townies at breakneck speed and I was caught up in the whirling dervish early. I was predictably offended by the overt inequality of the justice system for those that can afford to buy their way out of anything; that is until the “kangaroo court” sequence. There must have been some other way to provide equal justice for all. I felt cheated at the end but never the less this was a fast and fun summer read.
This was an awesome read. I enjoyed it from the beginning to the end. Really good reading. The character development was quite fascinating. You love characters you detest characters, and then there are the ones that break your heart and you feel real bad about them.I love a good court room. They are some of my favorite reading. This is no exception, except it has a couple twists and turns that make for a very good read. Don't want to be a spoiler, cause its that good.
I read this a while back. Patterson co-writes with several authors. This one I thought was going to be a slow read--- not so! To quote from the jacket " The Beach House is a breathtaking legal thriller of deceit and revenge--with a finale so shocking, it could only have come from the mind of James Patterson."
OMG, this was the best thriller I have ever read! Did NOT see the ending coming!
