https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953813.The_North_Ship
Larkin's first collection of poems - you can see the roots of something special here in several of his works.Here's "Winter", a good example of his style:https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=IqffYNX...
If Larkin had only published this and not his brilliant later collections, he would be forgotten today. The North Ship has a few poems that hint at his future genius, but most of the poems herein are interchangeable, working the theme of lovelessness in a way that echoes the cold emptiness of jazz - a horrible music that Larkin for some reason loved.The epic title poem, however, is something else entirely, and deserves to have been published in a booklet by itself.
The book does show a hero-worship of Yeats that made it archaic even by the end of the second world war, and any poet who's done the hero-worship thing and then looked back on his early work after growing out of it likely feels the same profound sense of embarrassment.
(In the Faber edition, Larkin adds a poem written a year or so after the work in The North Ship to show how radically his material had changed in such a short time; it sounds much more Larkin-as-we-knew-him.) By the time this edition came out, Larkin was already one of the UK's best-known and most-loved poets, and remained so until his passing in 1985; I shouldn't wonder if the republication of this little book turned an entire new generation on to Yeats, and that cannot be a bad thing.
Worth revisiting these early poems to compare with just how good Larkin's later works are.
Some women only date affluent male arseholes.
I am EXTREMELY disappointed for THIS to be my obsessional poetry interest.
Jesus.
No one could be more disappointed than myself.
Because this poetry is so fucking good, and like Shakespeare and Hughes and other arseholes, wonderfully imagistic (the 'long sibilant-muscled trees').
High point was the 'sharp vivacity of bone' from a 'polish airgirl in the corner street'- I reckon on HullTrains, because her voice is 'watering a stony place' and the stony godforesaken wasteland could only be Hull.
Although all of this rapture seems to simultaneously be taking the piss.
Introduction to a very different style of writing, one that seeks to endow inhuman clarity to a universe of abstractions - an endeavour which does not guarantee success but makes for remarkable, if slightly incoherent pieces.
This is Larkin’s first collection, and while I prefer his older stuff, I still enjoyed reading this and would recommend it to people who like traditional verse.
The poems in 'The North Sea' are less tight, less precise, but also less lyrical, and also feel distinctly teenagerish: death, girls, kisses, the futility of life, deer, birds, dark hair, snow, time, tears, parting.
Burial was no help:Next morning I got up and it did not.The first day after a death, the new absenceIs always the same; we should be carefulOf each other, we should be kindWhile there is still time.Maybe it's just being at two different ends of life.
This is the problem with such short poems: unless you are a writer whose language and ideas are punchy and immediate, brevity can be boring.
(I even stuck some sticky notes next to the poems I think I'll frequently revisit.) The longest poem, "The North Ship," is the clearest standout, but "Love, we must part now," "I see a girl dragged by the wrists," "Like the train's beat," "One man walking a deserted platform," "If hands could free you, heart," "Pour away that youth," "Waiting for breakfast, while she brushed her hair," and "Heaviest of flowers, the head" are all very good.These are rather traditionally written poems, observing rhyme and metre and form, and in some ways, as a reader, I respect it more than free verse.
Still, these are poems that I think the great Eastern poets (Li Bai, Basho, and their lot) would approve of.What saves this book from ever becoming a total muddy wash of mawkishness is the occasional razor-sharp precision of its images.
I'm thinking of concrete images like "girls with scarves around their heads," or "the broken plate...turned up by the [plough]share," or the man who ends a card game with Death by "overturn[ing] the table and go[ing] into the next room." And while the title poem is disappointingly dull, there's a poem about a unicorn here that's quite excellent (and, in my opinion, ought to have been the title poem of the collection instead).
This is Larkin in his twenties, during the War, and he hasn't found a voice. Very 'poetic', lots of inversion, echoes of Walter de la Mere. This is juvenilia, and one wouldn't be reading it if he hadn't written "The Whitsun Weddings"; the best poem is "Waiting For Breakfast..." which Faber appended in the first reprint. It's a couple of years later than "The North Ship" and his easy concision is beginning to show.
It is his first book of poetry and it isn't nearly as good as his later stuff. Noticeably so. Also too melodramatic. It is Larkin, so it is depressing, but it lacks the humorous cynical undertones of his later stuff. Still has some good poems and some great lines, but it is early work and it shows.
Poems IX, XI, and XX were great.
Larkin's first collection of poems originally published in 1945. One is struck with the originality of the rhyme schemes and the flexibility of the images. A superb piece of work.
