https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26575538-rising-wolf-the-white-blackfoot
Among the Blackfeet IndiansA young boy from a Canadian upper class family aspires to learn the fur trading business. Before he is sixteen years old he joins a trading group and is sent far from home. There he is assigned into the care of a Blackfoot Indian Chief with whom he travels, learns the Indian way of life, and comes to love them. Through them he learns the trapper trade and returns to the Trading Fort more a man than a boy. A book for the historian, researcher, and general reader both young and old.
What A Fantastic Story TellerI grew up in Minnesota and became friend with native Americans in my early youth. I have always loved going with my husband and children out West during the summers for many years. this was the West of Wyoming, Montana, and Colorado. the whole feel of the gorgeous land out there was for me like being home. my affinity towards native Americans and the love of the land yearns to be back in time when I could live with the Blackfeet, their families, and live the honest, loving, nature respecting way of life.
Read about land and people as among them now gone so goneAppreciation of the Native Americans in this Country long before even white trappers roamed the wilderness. When buffalo in their millions daily nourished the noble Blackfeet and Crows with food shelter clothing and tools. Share in the daily lives and wonder sadly they who lived in social structures perhaps surpassing ours.
A surprisingly good readThe storyteller has a knack for a good narrative and the ability to help the reader see very clearly what he saw as it was happening . I am searching for more about Hugh Monroe, Rising Wolf.
History of the Frontier Good text describing the entry of the frontier fur trade and the native Americans response to that activity. The incredible life of Hugh Monroe is a portrait of the daring forage of these men. Schultz brings his characters to life with great detail.
This book was well written a nd interesting. It presented a view of life in an Indian village in an interesting way.
For some reason this one just didn't click with me. It wasn't bad, but it just wasn't very exciting either.
I enjoyed the book, very educational, I would like to have love to have seen what Rising Wolf saw, to see the different tribes. Very interested in reading more about Rising Wolf.I enjoyed the book, very educational. I would like to have to have seen what Rising Wolf saw back in his time, and to see how the different tribes live. I !I've to read more about Rising Wolf.
Reading of rising wolfEnjoyable book, but maybe hoping for a little bit more, nice read though and would recommend this book. Four stars ample.
