https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1829709.The_Final_Warning
The problem, as I see it, is there was NO WAY he started writing this series with a plan to make Max's "saving the world mission" one that had anything to do with this topic.
If you go back and read the series from the beginning, starting with THE ANGEL EXPERIMENT, we all knew that Max and the gang had a special mission, a mission that would save the world.
But if this had been his plan all along, you have to think that there would have been SOME advance warning.
James Patterson seems to have a talent for making every next book in this series worse than the one before.
Huh. In my opinion, Patterson changed his mind and decided he didn't want it to be Jeb anymore, and know he has no idea who the Voice is going to be, so he's just going to brush it off and pretend it can just be some mysterious thing that we don't know about.
The color of Max's hair.
In the first book, she's described as having dark blonde hair.
Then, somewhere in the second book, she's described as having LIGHT blonde hair.
What the hell was that?
I've been enjoying the humor and action and adventure of this series (even though they are "young adult" and I'm anything but) .
OK, yeah, it had the humor.
And about two chapters of action and adventure.
The rest was penguins and Antarctica and snow and OHNOESGLOBALWARMINGISTEHBAAAAAAADDDDD!!!1!!11!!!ELEVENTY-ONE!!!Mr. Patterson, if I want a lecture on global warming shoved down my throat, I'll go talk to Al Gore.
From you I want what you do best: action, adventure, mystery, drama .
and a teensy bit of romance thrown in for good measure.
Approximately 4.8 million copies have been sold of the previous three books in the Maximum Ride series, so hopes were high that Final Warning, the new installment, would be just as entertaining.
Instead of adding anything new to the story, Patterson chose to focus on the issue of global warming and have The Flock, the six bird kids we’ve come to love, assist with scientific research in Antarctica.
Final Warning appears to be more of a filler book than a necessary part of the series.
In fact, if a reader were to skip Final Warning, there probably wouldn’t be a problem catching up when a fifth book is published.
Quite a disapointment, compared to the other three books. It's about a third of the size, and is not nearly as good as the others. Where is the HEART POUNDING ACTION? The WITTY SARCASTIC HUMOR? The SUSPENSE that makes you wanna CRY everytime you are forced to put the book down.I've heard rumors that there are going to be 5 books of this series, and I can only hope the others are much much much better.
I dropped this series after this book. I found it too childish and cliche. It's a great premise and I had positive expectations but it ended up falling short for me. It's a shame, I had hoped to enjoy this series as so many others had.
The first three books are an action-packed fun adventure with decent characters.
The bad guys are global warming extremists and apparently unrelated to the overall bad guys from the other books.
The next book is set up at the end as they fly off to meet at some distant coordinates and get back to fighting robots--this whole book appears to be a lame tangent you could skip completely.The global warming debate is an interesting and important one in my opinion--but keep the preaching out of a series completely based on action, teen identity, and family/lack of family roles.
Now she just needs to figure out how the voice in her head thinks she's going to do this.With the rest of her flock of Avian-Human hybrids, Max moves from taking down evil corporations to stopping global warming ('cause penguins are cute and hurricanes are bad!).Now, if only Patterson could be bothered to finish one plot thread before moving on to six more.If this hadn't been a Maximum Ride book, I would have never finished it, and most likely never even bought it.
What the hell?That was my general reaction to this book.
When inexplicable things like this happened in the other books, I played along, because the books are fun to read and I thought they would probably serve some purpose in the next book.
I thought Akila at least, a non-sentient dog we had just met, would be killed off.
The flock also survives flying, unprotected, in a category 5 hurricance.
It stands on such flimsy foundations that it's crossed the line from a fun dessert read to a book that's embarassing to be caught wasting your time on.
It was like Patterson was attempting to write the book, but wasn't done yet, and had forgotten to put in most of the excitement.
Mr. James Patterson, if this really is the ending of the series, I'm disappointed.
Sure I laughed, but there wasn't really any action or adventure I was hoping for.
It seemed more like a cry to save the earth, which the other books had some undertones of, but none of which were so strong as in here.
*shrugs*I want more books!
I want more Fang/Max!
I want more action and adventure!
The flock are led by Dr Martinez, who is now called Mom by Max, and Jeb to Washington where they are offered a comfortable life and an education in return for aid from the flock to the government.
Angel develops a shape-changing skill, Nudge develops magnetism, Fang develops the ability to disappear, and Iggy finds he knows what colour things are by touching them.
They are offered a place on a research ship which is on its way to the Antarctic, the flock accept and are soon on the bottom of the world.
Angel falls down a crevasse but is soon rescued by Fang and Max, who are in turn captured by Gozen.
In this breathtaking new story from the astonishing imagination of James Patterson, a girl has to save herself from an army assembled just to capture her - and maybe save the planet while she's at it.
Then she was threatened.Review: Wow, this book sucked.
It's hard to say.Things I Hated: It didn't seem like the James Patterson writing style that I know from previously.
The humor was totally off, and the writing was too crammed, and the plot was just so out there.
I read some other reviews and they are all saying that he didn't even write it.
THIS ONE WAS SOOO ACTION PACKED! I JUST LOV THE FLOCKZ HUMOR I CANT RECALL ALL THE TIMES IVE READ THIS BOOK!
There are some things that this book has improved upon, making it better than the last one; there aren't a dozen meaningless plot twists, Max's voice doesn't feel as "trying way too hard" as in the previous installment, and overall the flow of the whole thing was much better.However, this may be a case of the author setting his sights too low, in the name of achieving an easier goal.
The big revelation from the previous book is rescinded, we're adding another freaking dog to the cast, (at least this one doesn't talk...yet) and now everyone has MORE POWERS (yeah, that's why the last book sucked, there weren't enough super powers!).
Very, very bad."Save the world, Max!" "Yeah whoo!
He was a lot cooler as a bad guy who wanted Max all to himself) and then they gathered information on penguins.
The kidnapping was the only part that was cool but where in the world did the uber-director come from?
It was a whole lot better when the bad guys were Erasers who actually had a malicious desire to cause the flock pain.
The only reason I would is because of Fax but if that goes bad, then I don't want to end up ripping the book up and burning the pieces.
you know the feeling when you want to s t o p rereading bad books but somehow, your cold coal heart wants to try them again???
global warming, yes, is a really important issue, but it's one that doesn't need to somehow find its way into a book that ( even as a sub series ) has had nothing to do with global warming whatsoever.
there really was nothing important that came out of this book whatsoever ( except akila my bby )
Even FANG of all the characters was into the 'global warming is bad and we must save the world'...Total growing wings all of the sudden?Max's 'voice'-as in her normal character-was completely off.
If he'd wanted to talk about global warming, couldn't he at least have done us the favor of writing an entirely different book about it, and leaving The Max the way she was supposed to be.
As well as finally having Fang and Max's relationship actually GET somewhere.
The really exhausting part is that I do agree, overall, with its message, but I was so tired of being hit over the head with a constant lecture, right in the middle of every potentially interesting scene, that I just wanted to quit the book.
It's condescending, both to adults and tweens, in terms of its information delivery on political viewpoints, and many of the messages could have been made without all the exhausting preachy crap that was unnecessary to the story.
If the next book is like this, I'm quitting the series.
The Final Warning, by James Patterson, is the fourth book in the Maximum Ride series.
As I recall, this series was supposed to be a trilogy, but after the last book, Maximum Ride: Saving the World and Other Extreme Sports, it was clear that Patterson could still add to the story line.
While this book answers more of the lingering questions, there are still some that require more investigation, like "Who is the Voice?" and "Why are the kids mutating new powers?" The book begins with The Flock under attack from the Uber-Director and his new army while a short chapter brings the new readers up to speed.
Patterson, through The Flock, in general, and Maximum Ride in particular, really beats that theme over the readers' head.
It was a series about flying children and evil scientists, that was immensely interesting and enjoyable.
Until now.In this installment of the series, the gang head to Antarctica to promote environmental salvation.The main plot point of the entire novel is global warming.
This book was lacking the adventure and sarcastic humour that I had come to expect from the previous novels.
The global warming theme completely killed the plot line.The mere fact that the main villain in this novel is called "The Uber Director" and is literally a brain inside a box, tells you that Patterson is running out of ideas.
I again enjoyed this book and the exciting twists, I really liked the other ones more.
This one needs a little more wrapping up, that is if he's not planning on writing any more.
Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed the story, but he just missed out on the updated term for the warming/cooling trends.
Sorry, I just get sick of the hypocracy...I'm done with this subject for the night, can't sleep when I get to riled up over certain subjects.Yes, I did enjoy the book,so go ahead and read it.
He had better write one more in order to wrap up a couple of birds relationship, ugh.
For fans of the fist three, this book is a big let down.
Not only is it a lot smaller, but JP seems to only have skill in drawing up characters and the same confrontations, over and over.
Max is still funny, the flock get weird new powers, and the scientists are still crazy-strange.
But, by the end of the book, nothing is resolved between Max and Fang, and I felt cheated.
The book just seemed to be one big promotional tool to get people informed about global warming.
Plus, the flock didn't do much fighting.
I really wish this series would have ended after book 2 or book 3.This is just more of the same, with a message about climate in it.(view spoiler)[You already know the flock gets captures and they will escape. It's not even that exciting. (hide spoiler)]Only thing that kept me curious was the relationship between Max and Fang. Think that you can keep kids addicted to these books longer, but I will quit the series from now on. It was fun while it lasted, and I will add the first 3 books to my own bookshelf :)
E... niente! Anche questa puntata della saga di Maximum Ride non mi ha convinto. Questa fissazione di cambiare il mondo non regge alla lunga. Interessante la parte che si svolge in Antartide, ma niente di più. Ci siamo trasformati in documentario sulle cattiverie umane nei confronti della terra? Mi sa proprio di sì! Peccato, le premesse di questa saga erano diverse. Due sole stelline...
Why?!? Why does she keep running away from him?!? This book mainly focused on global warming and only had a few fight scenes compared to the others. Not my favorite from the series but still good. I liked seeing the weird new abilities on the flock and I'm still expecting Max to well...save the world, but in a cool-new-power way!
Ugh, this series is going seriously downhill.
The plotline of the book is that scientists studying the affects of global warming on the planet recruit the flock to help out.
I also feel as if the author only decided on the global warming idea during the middle of the series, because the 1st book has nothing to do with it at all.
And that’s bad because…?”	It’s not until the end of the book that Max understands why global warming has to be stopped.
I still found it to be enjoyable, but I feel like the massive changes that were made really slowed down the story and that disappointed me a little.
It doesn't really change my overall picture of the series, but I really would have liked to see things continue at the pace they were going.
I do like some of the messages this book carries though, and I am sure James's intention was to try and open up this issue to younger people through these books, and I think that is a great thing.
I start reading this book and have real trouble believing that it's a James Patterson.
He didn't say that but we read each other pretty well ;) I started another book months later and never went back to it, because when I did I could see it's flaws.
honestly, I forget, check my 'Not Good---Crap' Shelf ;)Though to be fair, or at least try to be, slightly, I felt it was maybe written (although, in my opinion, very badly) for a twelve year old with an interest in...
I just couldn't do that to the other books there *laughing*.
I’m sitting here laughing about the entire book right now.
I swear this is one of those books the author writes just to see how much he/she can get away with and have people make the purchase.The biggest disappointment of the whole book…If you want to skip spoilers now’s the time to stop reading…The saving the world nonsense?
Despite my ranting, I had a wonderful time with this series and laughed the entire way through, minus one time during book three where I considered tossing the book out the window.
If you’re interested in what I had to say about the other books in the series, check out my reviews here.
