https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21704.The_Black_Dahlia
I hated this damn book.My friend Hulk-boy told me to read this author.
I may punch him in the face.It starts with the boxing fight of two young police officers Bucky Bleichert and Lee Blanchard.
The hotshot team that got the LA police dept a raise with their boxing match.They team together after the fight as partner's.
That's the kind of fucker this book is.
It's based loosely on a true story but in real life the Black Dahlia case is still open.
Bless that poor girl's soul.Dirty cops, women seen as skirts, corruption and sometimes just pure stupidity threads throughout this book.
Elizabeth Short is found murdered and LAPD detectives Bucky Bleichert and Lee Blanchard catch the case.
I'd forgotten most of what transpired in The Black Dahlia so it was like being tied up and dragged down a gravel road all over again.The Black Dahlia is the rise and fall of detective Dwight "Bucky" Bleichert, and Elizabeth Short, the dead woman who ultimately did him and his partner, Lee Blanchard, in.
Much like Bucky, I was pretty obsessed by Elizabeth Short's murder and couldn't put the book down, as cliche as that sounds.
The Black Dahlia is a must-read for all serious crime fiction fans.
Or maybe sometimes the bisected body of a woman who had been brutally tortured would be left in an empty lot which would put a wildly corrupt police force in a frenzied media spotlight as the cops fruitlessly tried to solve the murder.It really was a simpler time…This was the book where James Ellroy stepped his game up from promising mystery writer to a creator of epic historical fiction by mixing a famous unsolved murder with seedy LA history via flawed fictional characters.
My Analysis of The Black Dahlia:-324 pages in the book-67 pages until the plot begins to unfold-300 pages before the book becomes unputdownable, as I like to call itWhat does that leave us with?...approximately 67 pages of wasted paper and 233 pages worth only borrowing from the library...
The book's only saving grace was the last 30(ish) pages where the twisted plot came into focus.In conclusion...What I liked: the twisted mystery plotWhat I disliked: Ellroy's inability to focus on what was important to me, the readerWhile this book may be worth reading for you mystery/suspense lovers out there, I would strongly suggest that you save our trees and borrow The Black Dahlia from your local library.

I devoured this book like a starving woman!Today I discovered for myself- (not you guys!
You probably discovered it many books ago!)a whole new genre and author- according to Wiki- neo crime noir.
I don't know why this was news to me when it comes from the 'noir' genre, but I really was genuinely surprised by its corrupt and sleazy undertones.
In the story everyone's lives were touched or ruined by the victim of the crime, the Black Dahlia, whether she was known to them personally or not.Can't wait to read the next one and explore this whole new-to-me genre!
Reto #2 PopSugar 2018: Un crimen real El 15 de enero de 1947 fue hallado en un solar de Los Ángeles el cuerpo salvajemente torturado y mutilado de la joven Elizabeth Short, a quien la prensa bautizó como "La Dalia Negra". Pese a las muchas teorías y hasta curiosas atribuciones de culpabilidad, el caso sigue oficialmente sin estar resuelto.Precisamente me llamaba la atención cómo el autor abordaría uno de los crímenes sin resolver más famosos de Estados Unidos, ya que no podía darse esa licencia
Más allá de la trama detectivesca, La Dalia Negra es, sobre todo, la historia de una obsesión, personalizada en Bucky Bleichert, el protagonista y uno de los policías a cargo de la investigación; Elizabeth Short acaba por gobernar su vida, incluso al punto de impedirle tener una vida amorosa o sexual normal.En definitiva, una novela negra diferente y muy dura, donde los personajes son más humanos, donde sus obsesiones y deseos se reflejan con gran sordidez y realismo, y que me mantuvo al vilo durante toda la lectura.

In January of 1947 the body of a woman, later identified as  Elizabeth Short , was found mutilated and abandoned in a vacant lot Los Angeles. In the papers (ever eager to run with a story of this ilk), she became known as  "the Black Dahlia"  after a film of the same name. In June of 1958 the assault and murder of another woman,  Jean Hilliker  (formerly Ellroy), hit the L.A. papers. Unfortunately, there were probably many other victims who came in between them, but these would be the two murder
In the papers (ever eager to run with a story of this ilk), she became known as 
In June of 1958 the assault and murder of another woman, 
(formerly Ellroy), hit the L.A. papers.
In real life, both murders remain unsolved.James Ellroy's world is a dark, dark place, one that is corrupt in every sense of the word.
I certainly could not live on a literary diet of James Ellroy alone (though I imagine that doing so would result in actual weight loss), but he is an undeniably powerful writer whose words (like the Dahlia's smile) will never really leave you alone.
Blanchard lost his sister and wants to solve the murder to in part deal with his rage and guilt over her loss; Bucky eventually also gets similarly obsessed with the case, and in the process gets involved with a woman who looks like Short who had a short affair with her.
I know, whew, a lot of layers to work through here, but Ellroy is good at digging deep into this muck.Everyone in Ellroy’s story is morally compromised, including we as readers obsessed with this sad, ugly tale, as we, too, ask questionable questions about her sexual reputation and get fascinated with her wild life: How many men?
Naked racism and misogyny abound, but there is redemption here too, with a bright hope for our hero in the final pages.Wow. Starting the book, the meeting and growing bonds of partnership between Bucky and Lee are a rollercoaster of crime, brutality and love.
Ellroy then melds the enigmatic and damaged Kay between and around them in a powerfully erotic and emotional alliance.In the early teamwork of Lee and Bucky, we see the brutality and youthful certainty of their growing power and authority.
We live this case ourselves through Ellroy's fabulous prose.So many fall in love with the Dahlia in death, in her beauty and who she might have been.
The novel opens with a boxing match between two cops, soon to become partners, and from this explosive introduction, the story continues to step-dance, duck and punch hard at the facts, sending the reader reeling more than once, emotionally exhausted after the long rounds, but high on adrenaline and thirsty for a K.O.I have noticed with another book set in the 1940's ("From Here to Eternity") how popular boxing was in the Us, especially with the armed forces and the police.
No matter how often I tell myself that the Ellroy book is fiction, I keep thinking the author could have done a better job in his portrayal of the victim (view spoiler)[ there is no evidence that the Black Dahlia slept around with anybody in a uniform  (hide spoiler)].
An abusive parent, crippling poverty – it doesn’t have to be bad, either: an early love of books fostered by the long forgotten sensation of your heavy lids slowly and rhythmically lulled to closing each night.
In 1958, James Ellroy was a small boy, and his mother was murdered.
He became fixated on an earlier wave of murders in the L.A. area, in particular the case of Elizabeth Short, the “Black Dahlia.” It will never be clear if Ellroy, the boy, held that carbon deep, to be slowly polished diamond-bright with that resulting psychic mess, with drink, with obsession.
So, now think on how your own minor or major life events have shaped you.
The novel is told from the point of view of Dwight "Bucky" Bleichert, who starts the book as a promising new LAPD warrants officer, until he gets embroiled in the case of the Black Dahlia, changing his life forever in more ways than one, as he is swept up in the obsessive circus that the investigation becomes.
This personal attachment fills the book with real earnestness and passion that helped to make it a crime classic.Aside from the fact that Ellroy's usual knack for great wordplay is on display, one of the most interesting things about the novel is the way the obsession over the Dahlia is detailed, an obsession that jumps from person to person like a disease, eating away at everyone it touches.
The memoir of a cop making bad choices, knowing that he is making them and unable to stop his own fate; leaving out the existential malaise that usually afflicts the protagonist in these stories and replacing it with a brutal and hard edged look at the underbelly of L.A. in the late 1940's.Ellroy takes the mood of something like Edward G.
(There’s that word again, but you can’t avoid it with him: Ellroy = intensity.) And he is more than a genre writer-- one need only look to this novel’s boxing scene, or think about some of its overriding principles of chaos, corruption, and selfishness to see this.
In other words, they were probably predisposed to liking it, probably having read and enjoyed other books that display similar themes.
For me he fits into a group of writers that I realize are great, but I just the same, happen to not enjoy.
E is for EllroyRead a book based on a true story.4.5 starsI cannot believe that I have never read anything by this author before.
I eat this shit up.I could almost hear Josh Hartnett's quiet and introspective voice narrating this tale of two cops and their obsession with the Black Dahlia murder.
Demons that force their obsession with a dead girl.
They gave her life.This book is not for the faint-hearted.
The way this poor girl was murdered is absolutely atrocious.
I just wanted revenge on the woman who ruined the two men I loved.'
This book will make you angry and sad.
Caught up in the investigation are Bucky Bleichert and Lee Blanchard: Warrants Squad cops, friends, and rivals in love with the same woman.
But both are obsessed with the Dahlia— driven by dark needs to know everything about her past, to capture her killer, to possess the woman even in death.
Hidden motives, questionable morals, crooked cops, double-crosses, and a spiderweb of links to crime after crime after crime make this one of the best noir books ever written, maybe even one of the best books of all genres.
First of all let me start by saying that this book is divided in 4 sections each one consisting of approximately 6-10 chpters.
I didn't read the first section of the book this time, it was far too boring to go through it again.
Anyway I was determined to keep my rating the same (1 star) until I started reading section 3.
This genre is not really up my alley but I would recommend The Black Dahlia to those of you who enjoy gruesome murder mysteries.INITIAL REVIEW- In case you consider quiting the book- Don't.
I think I completely lost interest when I started reading about the boxing thing...
Set in Los Angeles in the late 1940's, the story is told through the eyes of Bucky Bleichert an LAPD officer and former boxer.
Bucky takes up with a sexy socialite who even looks like the Black Dahlia, another step in his obsession as the case twists and turns, tangled even, seemingly forever unresolved.
I enjoyed the boxing match between the two friends, one a big puncher the other a more skilled boxer and the actions of Bucky Bleichert around the fight set the tone for both their actions to come.Also posted at http://paulnelson.booklikes.com/post/...
I’m a sucker for hard boiled story telling and Ellroy’s opening entry into his legendary LA Quartet is not to be missed.The Black Dahlia is the perfect example of what great noir fiction should be - interesting protagonists that we can root for but at the same time love to hate.
While the author doesn't leave the reader with many questions, I felt like it would've been better if he had left the mystery more open ended.
With Ellroy dedicating the novel to his mother, it’s possible that fictionalizing an ending to a legitimate unsolved murder helped the author work through some of his own issues.
Η 23χρονη Ελίζαμπεθ Σορτ βρέθηκε δολοφονημένη και κατακρεουργημένη σε ένα οικόπεδο το 1947.11 χρόνια
Turning the pages of THE BLACK DAHLIA will infuse the reader with a keen sense of time and place via a perfect blend of heinous fact and deeply disturbed fiction.
Story aside, the characters are what makes THE BLACK DAHLIA really come to life – not taking anything away from the case which looms over these characters till the very end.
Ellroy crafts a masterfully intense and provocative crime noir which takes the reader deep into his own dark places and allows them to wallow in a perpetual state of hopelessness and longing.
THE BLACK DAHLIA is confronting, disturbing, and demands multiple reads - one of my all time favourites and a classic of the genre.
So gripping that I read this virtually in one sitting, but definitely not for fainthearted. This is 1940s LA at it's gritty, sleazy best with lashings of testosterone, violence, sexism, racism, blackmail, corruption, bad cops, shoddy developers, family secrets and the odd necrophiliac. The characters are way past being flawed; they are totally f*cked up. And the details of the murder are grisly.Classic noir based on true crime, with the investigation being fictionalized into one man's obsession with the girl who became known as The Black Dahlia.
He strides through the bar, his stained raincoat flapping behind him as he pushes aside vacant bar stools and squints through the thinning veil of cigarette smoke.
But the first way was better, non?Anyway this was my first foray into the dark, stained and sullen world of the crime noir and it was quite an interesting journey.
This is where the press and detective agencies stepped in and filled in the blanks, not necessarily in the most factually accurate way, but in a way which gave the case the correct air of mystery, coupled with a shabby glamorous depravity.
Πισω απο τα λαμπερά φώτα του Hollywood, πισω απο τις υπέροχες λεωφόρους και τον λαμπερό ήλιο του Λος Αντζελες, υπάρχει ενας κοσμος καθολου αγγελλικός ή λαμπρός.
Ενας κοσμος σαπίλας, σήψής, διαστροφής Και διαπλοκής.
Η μαφία, η αστυνομία, το FBI,ο κίτρινος σκανδαλοθηρικος τύπος, οι επειχηρματιες και τα συμφέροντά τους κυβερνούν αυτόν τον κοσμο.
Και αυτόν ανατέμνει στην Μαύρη Ντάλια ο Ελρου.
Ενα έγκλημα που δεν εξυχνιαστηκε ποτε-οπως και η δολοφονία της μητέρας του συγγραφέα-γινεται η αφορμή αυτής της ανατομιας.
Οταν επιτέλους βγαίνουμαι στην επιφάνεια και πέρνουμαι ανάσα, ειμαστε σοφότεροι: σε αυτόν τον κοσμο δεν υπαρχει κάθαρση.
On the year of the 40th anniversary of the crime, James Ellroy gave a sense of (fictional) closure to the case with this masterful novel.
People can be obsessed with many things; money, power… a good book, but in this case it’s a woman.
As they begin looking for a man name Nash who killed an old woman, they stumble upon another crime scene that will take them down a dark and twisted path.After a somewhat slow start I became engrossed with this novel.
On the second day of reading, I was lost in the Dahlia case, reading over 150 pages before I finally made myself stop to get some sleep.
But overall it felt a little bloated and some of the points didn't have the same impact if it was a tighter novel.
I liked the build up of the book.
I read the audiobook and the narrator came across very much like you'd expect a noir narrator to sound like.
Then he did a Scottish accent and I lost a fair amount of respect for him.
I visit Scotland a couple of times a year and I've yet to meet one which sounds like a pirate.
Apparently this is how Scottish people sounded in the 40's, I think not.
I found the writing style of American Tabloid unreadable, and the novels of his that I have read have ranged from awful (Brown's Requiem) to pretty good (LA Confidential and White Jazz), but no matter how powerful I found them in stretches or how vivid the subject matter, I always had reservations about his novels.For whatever reason, however, I thought The Black Dahlia was really good, and the best novel by Ellroy I've read so far.
Maybe it was the real-life murder victim around whom Ellroy crafted his tale, and the vividness with which she allowed him to explore his complicated feelings about women.Well, whatever it was, I thought The Black Dahlia was a pretty great novel.
Tutti lo sono, ma se esiste una scala Richter del delitto, questo torceva i ponti, fletteva le cattedrali, abbatté una piramide.
Così come le ricadute possono essere molto più gravi della prima manifestazione della malattia, il caso della Dalia Nera, così fu battezzata la vittima Elizabeth Short, aizzò aitanti attenzioni, catalizzò consapevoli cronisti e determinò devastanti destini.
Solo pochi sbuffi della nube di sensi e significati dov'era adagiata sua madre coincidono con quelli evocati da Elizabeth Short, ma questo terapeutico tentativo di soluzione, Ellroy lo persegue indefessamente come tardiva riparazione.
Ma i travasi da fiction a realtà e viceversa, trasfusioni, non si limitano a questo.
