https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30164950-driven
You couldn’t pay me enough money to do something like that in public.You'll be doing that in public in about 10 seconds.2% - “Oh … um … I’m so sorry.” I hold my hands up in a flustered apology.
“So that’s what it will sound like?” I open my eyes, confused at his comment, to see him regarding me with a bemused look on his face.
“Those words, Oh God,” he mimics me, reaching out and running a finger down the side of my face, “Now I know exactly how you’ll sound when you say that while I’m buried deep inside of you.”*gag*9% - My computer pings and I click on my mailbox to see an incoming email.
This time you get Rylee who falls out of a freaking closet, looks up and there he is, Colton.
They just looked at each other and next thing you know, there is saliva splashing all over the place.
But she, good girl that she is *eye roll*, feels like a whore, or a cheep slut, that have been put on a display and sold like some sex slave.
"Just know, Rylee, the best sex you will ever have...
★★★★! The Driven Trilogy, book 1, a Debut by K. Blomberg. Famous, rich, sexy & unattainable playboy & race car driver Colton Donavan’s fast and furious pursuit of broken and withdrawn regular girl, Rylee Thomas!   “I will revel in that moment with him which will be filled with reverent sighs and entangled bodies, and I’ll be devastated when he walks away after having his fill of me.”   The Driven Trilogy is the fast-paced whirlwind romance of an ordinary girl with a painful past, Rylee
The Driven Trilogy is the fast-paced whirlwind romance of an ordinary girl with a painful past, Rylee Thomas, working for a non-profit organization when her world collides with the beyond handsome, elusive and jaded, (in)famous playboy, sought after bachelor and successful race car driver with Hollywood family ties, Colton Donavan.
However, I already saw huge progress in the last two-thirds of the book and my wish for the next-coming books is that he continues on the hot and cold path plus improves his dialogue.Six words to describe Colton Donavan: Driven, charismatic, enigmatic, relentless, unattainable and broken.
COLTON DECIDES WHAT HIS WOMEN WANT FROM HIM AND WHEN:COLTON IS AN ENDLESS LIBRARY OF CHEESY, SMARMY PICKUP LINES!COLTON GETS ALL OF HIS WOMEN BY BEING AN ASS, AND THEY LOVE IT!: NOW, MEET RYLEE:Our doormat extraordinaire heroine who piles on the excuses for Colton's asshole behavior, says one thing but always does another, spreads her legs at his commands, and believes she can fix this dude because she is sooooo special.
This is book 1 in a series, so there is no HEA nor do we get all of the answers as why they are so fucked up.
5 AH-MAZING Stars*****OMG what a Ride.... I don't know why its taken me so long to read this series, I'm telling you if you haven't just like me then STOP EVERYTHING and meet ACE!!!!!  I'm not going to write a big review as planning to do a series review at the end, but here are some of my thoughts so far. Sigh and swoon. what I have loved so far about this book is how Kristy has made palpable characters that give us feelings of realism. You literally feel and need to know what it's like to be T
I don't know why its taken me so long to read this series, I'm telling you if you haven't just like me then STOP EVERYTHING and meet ACE!!!!!
I'm not going to write a big review as planning to do a series review at the end, but here are some of my thoughts so far.
what I have loved so far about this book is how Kristy has made palpable characters that give us feelings of realism.
You literally feel and need to know what it's like to be THEM so much so you feel like your intruding in a way to there life.
Rylee was a strong woman who had control over life and who dedicated her time towards working for a wonderful cause helping children in need.
:)I loved Rylee right from the start.
"I'm seeing the true Colton Donavan - the unmasked version with a vulnerability that makes me want to reach over and take the hurt that often flickers through those green eyes and make it better.
Overall, I liked the pacing of the story, I enjoyed watching Rylee and Colton try to figure out their relationship and I can't wait to see what comes next.
I do not want to discourage others from reading this book.
Yeah I liked them when they first came out almost 2 years ago but I'm over the helpless girl falling over a rich handsome guy who she cannot understand why he makes her feel the way she does.
Then she stops and says she is not this type of girl.
One of the major turn offs for me was (view spoiler)[ Colton was kissing a girl when she walks by in the beginning of the book, then she fucking kisses him.
4.5 OH. FUCKING. MY. STARS!!!!!!My goal is to make you smile when reading this review, because I smiled so much in this book, my cheeks hurt!!!!What are you doing right now? Well, stop it and read this book instead!!!This book is for YOU.Sexy. Sweet. Heart-warming. Bossy. Dirty. This book made me FEEL.  I sigh into the welcoming silence, grateful for the chance to escape, even if only momentarily, from the mindsuck of the meaningless conversations on the other side of the door. That is the first
STARS!!!!!!My goal is to make you smile when reading this review, because I smiled so much in this book, my cheeks hurt!!!!What are you doing right now?
He keeps Rylee at an emotional distance because he knows he is not able to love and doesn’t want to hurt her.
Colton and Rylee communicate through music sometimes by texting songs with lyrics they want to say, whether they are fun, serious, or just damn sexy!
I want to build you up nice and slow and sweet like you need.
And then I want to fuck you the way I need to.
Cliché central...I don't even know what to say.Too much of everything. Too much sex, too much sexual frustration, too many descriptions of how Colton makes her body go tingly, too many bitchy ex-girlfriends to circumvent and please stop with the obvious childhood drama. We have had this before many times over. Like watching a car crash in slow motion. I'm pretty sure I will read the rest in no time, but damn this is bad in a seriously addictive way. I hate myself a little for even starting this ride.
4 Fast Stars.  Rylee went through a pretty tragic event and never completely recovered from that. Until he had been adopted Colton also had a pretty tragic past. Neither of them wants to feel, because they both believe they doesn’t know how to do that anymore. Until their worlds collide, they both have to work together and everything changes. Colton wants her and she wants him back, but he’s an f1 racer, with more money that he can count and a sordid past that insists on not being forgotten, wh
Until he had been adopted Colton also had a pretty tragic past.
Neither of them wants to feel, because they both believe they doesn’t know how to do that anymore.
I’m all for the “broken alpha male who falls in love and doesn’t know how to deal with it” type.
Rating:  4 Stars Characters Development:  Rylee, despite some minor annoyances, it’s a pretty good heroine.
It’s endearing to see him trying to understand all these new feelings, and despite some agitations he brought me through the book, where I just wanted to slap him, it has impossible not to fall for him.
Then move on."Cuz nothing says sexy like knowing you're disposable....______________________________________________"Let's get something straight, (...) If I want you, I can and will have you, at any time and in anyplace, sweetheart."Keep in mind these quotes are all taking place on the very first night that they meet.______________________________________________"So that's what it will sound like?"I open my eyes, confused at his comment, to see him regarding me with a bemused look on his ace.
I hate to say this but I dnf'ed at 68%.I just wasn't feeling it anymore.
But unfortunately it just wasn't enough for me.
She needed constant reminder of how beautiful she is, and I understand why, it's just that the confidence that she periodically exuded didn't gel with basket case she was most of the time.Now I understand not everyone likes reading the same thing, so in no way am I saying don't read this book.
Reading is a very personal thing and we can't all agree on the same stuff.
This book reeled me in, but somewhere along the line I lost that connection.
Such a shame, as I was so damn excited to read this book and started it right now because I felt like I needed a sure thing, that I could almost guarantee I'd love.However, the all too frequent and cringe-worthy grammatical errors, the cheesy dialogue, the unbelievable (not in a good way) storyline, the ridiculous first encounter, the whole sentences randomly in italics, the fact that both the hero and the heroine pissed me off, the creepy innuendos and the fact that it felt like the entire romance industry had thrown up on these pages, cramming every romance cliché in existence into the story, just made it impossible for me to connect with this book in any way.The fact I only got through 30% of this book, in two days, speaks volumes.
I'm biased here...
1st re-read from March 11 to 13, 20152nd re-read from May 1o to 14, 2018Well...this book was full of clichés and a bit predictable for sure.But you know  what ..I wanted  ALPHA MALE . I got  ALPHA MALE ....and what a fine specimen of alpha *sigh*I'm so glad that I have the 2nd book already on my kindle because it ends - **I know** like all   these kinds of books  - with a huge cliffhanger!
IT'S LIVE ON AMAZON..... http://www.amazon.com/Driven-The-Tril...  Full review now posted!!!!    Oh my HOLY. FREAKING. GOODNESS. THIS. BOOK. IS.... BEYOND. AMAZING.   I'm still trying to catch my breath... Man is this book AWESOME!!  The story is told from the perspective of Rylee Thomas. 26 yr. old Rylee works for Corporate Cares, a company that houses orphans. The state turns over their guardianship to her company. Corporate Care, houses kids who are at an age that the chance of adoptions are
By the end of the night, Colton has secured a date with Rylee after bidding on her in the charity date auction.
Colton manipulates his way into her personal life, work life and lives of the boys in her care.
She knows Colton only wants one thing.
And then I want to fuck you the way I need to.
Colton wants her, needs to consume her.
She knew what she wanted, as much as it hurt to not have Colton the way she wanted, she still refused to give into him when he couldn't give her what she needed.
I can't wait for Rylee and Colton's story to continue.
*4.5 Racing Stars* Before I started reading Driven I had heard people comparing it to Fifty Shades of Grey.
I can see some similarities but to me it felt more like Bared to You. There were some cheesy lines like: "Me playing Ana to his Christian." Either way this book holds its own in entertaining the readers.
Colton is the bad boy with a sordid past.
Reylee is the 'do-gooder' with a tragic past.
This is the third book this week that I've read that has a major cliffhanger and the series isn't complete.
I think I'm glutton for punishment.SERIES:
Cliffhangers
HOLY SHIT...DAMN HOT...OH GOODNESS...FUCKING AMAZING...ummm...were to start?
First of all I fucking LOVED this book.
Colton a hot car racer -Hello ?!
what more to say!...- okay just stick with 'sex on legs' 'fucks like he drives' 'lick on a stick' - you're sure will love him as much as I did!!!'I want to take my time with you, Rylee.
I want to build you up nice and slow and sweet like you need.
And then I want to fuck you the way I need to.
Bromberg...Oh I forgot to mention this fucking cliffhanger that made me want to throw my kindle and scream out loud.
UPDATE - Someone recently liked my review and I came back to re-read what I wrote for this first book in one of my favorite series. I felt the need to update the review with a quick note. I have never in my MANY years of reading seen such a change/improvement from a debut book to everything else going forward from an author. It pains me that this series has such a weak start and that this first book might put people off from reading the rest of this series. Because people....YOU WOULD BE SERIOU
UPDATE - Someone recently liked my review and I came back to re-read what I wrote for this first book in one of my favorite series.
I have never in my MANY years of reading seen such a change/improvement from a debut book to everything else going forward from an author.
It pains me that this series has such a weak start and that this first book might put people off from reading the rest of this series.
I may not have been wow'd with this first book and spent most of the time being wishy-washy with the characters, but I liked it enough to want to know where this is going.
"Come join us at Shh K. Bromberg Pre-Chat Co-hosting with my girl LIZ"If you haven't met Colton yet now is the time if you already read all these amazing books come chat with us about it. We will be interviwing K.B on the 20th...Don't miss out on the fun  Read On January 18, 2014WOW so good couldn't put this one down good! If you liked 50shades? Well you will love this one. I have so many butterflies right now...all I'm thinking is ACE aka Colton. I am so glad I waited to read this because now a
Bromberg Pre-Chat Co-hosting with my girl LIZ"If you haven't met Colton yet now is the time if you already read all these amazing books come chat with us about it.
I am so glad I waited to read this because now all I want is to get into boom two Fueled here I come eekkk
Colton crashes into my life like a tornado: sapping my control, testing my vulnerabilities beyond their limits, and unintentionally penetrating the protective wall around my healing heart.
But when our worlds collide, is the chemistry enough to bring us together or will our untold secrets and battle of wills force us apart?Book Order Series:
Colton was definitely a swoon worthy tortured hero. I can't wait to read more about him. His scenes with the children were so precious!! Rylee was also a cool heroine. I liked how she would challenge him and would play hard to get. Overall, I truly enjoyed it, I just wish they would Stop.Talking.Like.This. The ending definitely makes me want to dive into Fueled immediately. Can't wait to see how their journey is going to continue.
So as usual I saw everyone reading this and I got jealous and wanted to read it too... Oh and also cos of the pretty cover!! But then I found it was a trilogy with a cliffhanger so I was all like ppfftt I'm not falling for that trick! I'll wait.... AND THEN I read wayyyyy to emotionally charged books so I was all like.. man I need some sex...  "Goodreads come at me with an alpha", and I remembered the delicious Colton Donovan that everyone was talking about it.. So I took the plunge!! BOY AM I H
So as usual I saw everyone reading this and I got jealous and wanted to read it too...
But then I found it was a trilogy with a cliffhanger so I was all like ppfftt I'm not falling for that trick!
AND THEN I read wayyyyy to emotionally charged books so I was all like..
(No bullshit she legit falls out of a cupboard into his arms!)and then they start macking out like a pair of teenagers until she comes to her senses and tells him no...
No-one tells Colton Donovan NO...
and then a whole lot of OMG IT'S FUCKING HOT IN HERE SEX happens...
Oh and before the guy kissed the girl [whom he met 1 minute ago] , he also said 'Oh fuck it ' , you know the way Christian Grey said before he mauled Ana in the elevator .
*Edit*Ok so a couple of my GR friends on reading this review were like , you can't decide how the book is going to be with a few scenes .
From the ratings [which are the highest I have ever seen for books in this genre] and the reviews , the characterization is noteworthy and the story is gripping .
I don't want to read about another Ana or Christian/Gideon .
As far as Ms. Bromberg's writing skills went, I thought she did a wonderful job, although I did have a few complaints with the story and how it resembled parts of other popular books.
I counted at least three other stories that had come out more than a year ago, that had very similar ideas displayed as Driven.
I had read that idea in a book last year, and so I felt that it didn't hold the same meaning for me in this book.One of the other major complaints I had was with Colton himself.
2.5 Gah, this is a trilogy?! It's not awful, but it's pretty boring, I admit. It has potential and all that, but it's way, way too long! Only reason why it got 3 stars, not 2, is because it made me curious about the next book...
A FICTIONAL CHARACTER JUST FUCKED ME THROUGH A BOOK!!!!
❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤Wow!!!!
This book was a rollercoaster of emotions for me!
I cried, laugh, cried, cried.
Ad. Cried!!
Wow!!
I freaking love love love love love love love (get my point) love Colton!!
What is it about alpha make men!?
I swear I love them!!
Anyways, Colton is amazing sexy, confident, cocky, arrogant, crazy at times but sweet Jesus that man has a way with words.
I love rylee too..
I thought she was so strong and loving!!
If you haven't picked this book up!
Shit you need too!!!
Amazing!!!
Very early on, Driven seemed to be falling into the same trap many of the stories classified as erotic romance do.
Rylee and Colton met for the first time, neither knowing who the other was, and immediately fell into a passionate, sexual encounter.
Colton soon became involved with the company Rylee worked for in his capacity as a wealthy business owner, as well as racecar driver.
We find out almost no details about Colton, but, thankfully, there are another two books on the way *grin*.
Many of you have probably already read and loved this fantastic first book in The Driven Trilogy.
♥♥♥ 3.75 "MIXED SIGNALS" STARS ♥♥♥After reading a few mixed reviews, I wasn't to sure if I wanted to read this one or not.
In the end, I decided to try it for myself and hope for the best.
After a weird start to the book--which already had me thinking I might not end up liking it--I became quite hooked.
And was pleasantly surprised to end up enjoying this book.
●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●  ●"Let’s face it, you’re not a spend the night kind of guy, and I’m not a one-night st
After a weird start to the book--which already had me thinking I might not end up liking it--I became quite hooked.
The book begins with Rylee Thomas catching the famous racecar driver Colton Donovan in the act.
After getting flashes of vulnerability from him, she wants to get to know the real him, but Colton doesn't want that to happen.
As the story went on, we got to know a bit about Colton but there is still so much more to find out about him that he keeps hidden.
This is why Rylee was so hesitant to start anything with Colton.
Get it here: Amazon US * Amazon UKI can't believe it took me so long to start this series! Full trilogy review here
Rylee's response to Colton's butt-ness..The tug-of-war-of-love between the two (I LOVE YOU...Or Nah?)......Queue the snooty hoe...(Tauny)..The carnival scene ;)....The hanky-panky at the beach ;)....That ending though D:.....From the request of many of my GR friends, I read this book ASAP.
It was a very emotionally gripping read for me since by the end of the book I just didn't know how I felt about Colton.
90% of the book I was so angry with Colton for not being able to accept the goodness that Riley brought in his life, but as his past unfolded I was able to relate to him and understand why he felt the need to sabotage the good in his life like it was a confirmation that everything he loves eventually turns on him.
