https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/862022.The_Spider_Sapphire_Mystery
Reading Nancy Drew now is like watching a Mystery Science Theater short - one of those 1950's informational ones on personal grooming or careers for ladies.
And the majority of the story takes place in Africa (Nancy and the gang get to go on a safari, yay!), so there's lots of great vintage racism.
And at the same time, everything is just so goddamn wholesome it makes your teeth hurt: "Before long, the chattering, laughing Emerson group hurried aboard the chartered plane.
Nancy Drew must solve this case of fraud, counterfeiting, and blackmail before it's too late!
Oh, Nancy Drew...When I was a kid, I'd read a Nancy book a day.
The adventures were top notch and she was such a strong female character who had strong female, kick-ass friends.
This is what I hope will be the first of many re-read Nancy books.As usual, within the first 10 pages, Nancy is in a scrape and some criminals are stealing her purse and trapping her car in a parking lot for no reason.
In this mystery, a rare gem is stolen and Nancy is put on the case.
My biggest disappointment is that Nancy's friend George doesn't pull many judo moves in this one.
Someone shoots out Nancy's tires.
Actually, no, they shoot at her tires while she's parked, but don't manage to actually puncture them.
If a person is black, they're referred to as "a black," like, "the cab driver was a black wearing a gold chain." There's also some bitchy girl who chills out and is beautiful after a baboon steals her blond wig.Ned is drugged and kidnapped by unknown assailants.
George gets kidnapped by a "baboon" that ends up being a black in disguise.
Ned gets knocked unconscious in a fight.
Nancy and Ned get their hands burned by acid.
I remember having read this book, but otherwise very little about it. I got it from the mobile library that used to park on Kirkham Road, Southport, outside the Temperance Hall. I would have been about 8 years old and attracted to it by the spider in the title and on the cover - I liked spiders, and still do.My rating of 3 stars is rather arbitrary, but as it's stuck in my mind all these years I will give it the benefit of the doubt.
Placeholder for reread of Ilona Andrews' Magic Rises
Loved these books when I was a kid. Have enjoyed rereading them as an adult.
I absolutely adored these growing up, much more so than the Hardy Boys, and still carry a fondness for them into adulthood
The Spider Sapphire MysteryBy: Carolyn KeeneIn the book, The Spider Sapphire Mystery by Carolyn Keene, Nancy faces a mystery including a spider sapphire being stolen. Part of the mystery takes place in her hometown, River Heights, and in Africa on a trip. She faces many dangerous encounters while working the mystery. The lexile for this book is 760L.  I think the theme of this book would be to never intentionally do bad things. Over the course of the book the people behind the mystery that stole
The Spider Sapphire MysteryBy: Carolyn KeeneIn the book, The Spider Sapphire Mystery by Carolyn Keene, Nancy faces a mystery including a spider sapphire being stolen.
As Nancy found out more of the case, they would keep putting her and her friends in danger, which like I said, lead to major consequences.
It wasn’t predictable at all because the author always leaves you in suspicion at the end of each chapter and surprises you with things throughout the book.
The author includes sketches throughout the book to help you visualize some things which I think is neat.
This was the first "long" book I ever read. So it's kinda special. I loved this book as a kid so I thought I could reread it. Of course it wasn't that amazing like 6 years later. Things happened very fast which is good bcs I'm not a big fan of unnecessary things. The story was a bit messy. I got the names confused at times. But the most annoying thing was when someone said "Africa is an amazing country!". I don't know if the mistake was made while translating or writing it. I found it very annoying.
I thought this one was a good one. It didn't seem too easy for her, where all the pieces fell together easily. Although, she always seems to have an unlimited amount of $ for a girl her age, and so do her friends. When all of their clothes were ruined? No big deal, lets just run out and buy brand new wardrobes!
I liked this because it was interesting to see her go out on a safari. I liked the new character Gwen once she changed her attitude!🧐
I love Nancy drew, I found this book in a second hand book store and I fell in love with the mystery
I just re-read this book because I found an article about the original Carolyn Keene (Mildred Wirt Benson), that said this book was her favorite. It was fun, and interesting to read as an adult.
Awesome book!!! I have to admit even though that the series is way under my reading level I can always turn to nancy drew for an adventurous quick read!!!
Nancy helps solve the mystery of the missing spider sapphire jewel with the help of her friends Bess,George,Ned, Burt ,and Dave in Africa.
This was my favorite Nancy Drew book when I was younger. Rereading it now isn't quite the same, you notice the flaws when your older.But it is still a enjoyable read.
I am happily back enjoying the Nancy Drew mystery series again. I appreciate the clean, nonviolent, non sexual or evil emphasis but good simple adventure and mystery-solving.
The Spider Sapphire Mystery  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 45th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Nancy Drew's latest mystery starts in her home town where her lawyer father's client, Floyd Ramsey—who fashions beautiful and unusual synthetic gems, is accused of stealing the magnificent spider sapphire—a synthetic sapphire with a spider embedded in it—and exhibiting it as his own creation. When Mr. Ramsey's enemies blackmail him, and by their own vicious acts try to d
Nancy Drew's latest mystery starts in her home town where her lawyer father's client, Floyd Ramsey—who fashions beautiful and unusual synthetic gems, is accused of stealing the magnificent spider sapphire—a synthetic sapphire with a spider embedded in it—and exhibiting it as his own creation.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
I think this book was pretty good. I liked it because things were stolen and trips to different places were made. A spider mde out of sapphires was stolen and Nancy, Bess, and George had to go all the way to Africa because of it. There was also some blackmails which made the story even jucier. Every Nancy Drew book I have read, I have always loved. There's not a single thing I do not like. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes mystery.
This book focuses on Nancy going on a Safari with the Emerson boys, and Bess and George.
She goes to see the fake sapphire and sees a sign that says it is the real one and it is stolen.
before leaving nancy meets a singer whole brother Tizam went missing.
They go on many safaris, and when they are at a party, a man almost suffocates Nancy.
One day they meet the man whose sapphire was stolen.
they realize that it was the secretary that arranged the whole thing.Review: Yes this book refers to Indians in a harsh manner, and I am not condoning this language.
Nancy Drew is trying to unlock the case about the missing spider sapphire and one made in a lab.
The people with the spider sapphire really didn't want Nancy interfering with their hopes to sell the sapphire.In the end Nancy and Ned go into this dungeon in search for the sapphire.
Thats when they tried to leave but couldn't then out walked the men who had broughten all the trouble for the gang.
They wanted the sapphire and they thought Nancy had which she did but said she didn't.The searched Nancy and Ned the couldn't find the sapphire anywhere.
It wasn’t as detailed as some of the books that I’ve read but you knew how she felt.
I liked how there were those dramatic parts that their enemies did and just caught you by surprise.
I’ll definitely read another one of Carolyns book when I get the chance to.
Other than that I liked the book and want to read another one.
I would recommend this book to people that like mysteries because it was about a detective and her helpful friends trying to solve mysteries of stolen items and much more.
It was a very interesting book to read and I enjoyed it too.
As the original Nancy Drew books go, The Spider Sapphire Mystery is pretty average.
The Spider Sapphire unfortunately shows its age quite glaringly at times(it is kind of weird to see characters so casually discussing the uses of elephant and rhino ivory), and the resolution to the mystery subplot of Tizam's disappearance is very rushed and not particularly believable(amnesia as a plot device rarely seems to work very well anyways).
But it was cool to have a different setting for a Nancy Drew mystery, and I quite enjoyed the subplot of Gwen's transformation(it was very pleasant and refreshing, so I don't mind even if it's not wholly realistic).

The very first Nancy Drew book I read, and still my favorite!
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
Nancy is a world traveler! To Africa! With fewer comments about Bess's weight! No, really, I don't think it was as bad in this book.Nancy stumbles into a mystery when she learns that a fabricated gem containing a spider may be swapped out for the real deal. It belongs to an Indian gentleman but he is somehow in Africa? She, of course, solves the mystery, finds the gem and even locates the missing brother of a famous singer who was thought to have been mauled to death by lions but really made it out alive but with amnesia.
I loved the Nancy Drew books when I was a child but realize now that they are very simplistic and really stretch the imagination. There is absolutely no way a young girl could accomplish the things Nancy does in these books. I guess if you're a tween, they'd be engaging but certainly not if you've actually lived for any length of time. I read this for a challenge (needed something published in 1967), otherwise I would never have picked this up.
I read all the Nancy Drew books available (about 50) as a girl. I was challenged to "reread an old favorite" and thought I want to see if these are as good as I thought. Well, with a bit of suspension of disbelief, I actually thought it was still a worthwhile read. Thanks, Carolyn Keene for all those years of fun and suspense!
