https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50854.Between_Planets
Don Harvey whose (human) mother was from Venus and father was from Earth was studying on our good ol' planet when a message from his parents came.
By the way the whole situation with rebellion can be explained by a very simple analogy: imagine Earth being Britain and Venus being US right before the latter gained independence.
So did Mars by the way, but this is another story.
To make a long story short Don stuck right in the middle of Big Politics.
The first part - Don's misadventures on Earth - felt to me like 1984 Junior.
Just like some part of modern young kids.
Short Summary first: War is about to break out between Venus and Earth.
His ship is taken over by the Venus rebels and he ends up there.One good part of this book is it basically talks about being a refugee.
So he ends up up Venus; because of the war, his Earth currency is not good.
Don is a typical young Heinlein hero but his transition from naive high school student to adult is well handled.One really cool aspect of this book is the race of intelligent Venusians called "dragons" by human--which they do resemble.
I learned something very important from this book:1.) If you read every book that an author has written in chronological order;2.) While working 12-16 hour days in a factory that makes swimming pool liners and covers;3.) Indeed, most of that reading is accomplished during your breaks and lunches;4.) And in addition, you are having daily discussions with your father who wants to know why a smart guy like you with a B.A. in English is working at a factory that won't even still be there in ten years.
The no-friends thing especially works well if you initiate conversations that go somewhat like this: "Have you ever read Robert Heinlein?
Heinlein also looks to the past: the plot involves a battle of the planets with Earth invading its rebellious colony, Venus, much as Britain did with America, whereas someone's refusal to sit next to a “dirty Venerian” (Venus dweller) harks back to the Third Reich, although the Venus colonials respect for the indigenous dragons seems to be analogous to the first Euro-settlers arriving in the US and forging bonds with the Indians, broken by the unfortunate incidents with the smallpox blankets and the genocide.
I am addicted to listening to Heinlein juveniles. There, I said it.
One of my favorite juvenile Heinlein novels.
While in school on Earth, Don receives a message to immediately leave school to join his parents on Mars where they are station to do some sort of research as a war is brewing between Earth and the new "republic of Venus".
(I started with Heinlein and van Vogt who are polar opposites in every way but both having been editor Campbell Jr. stable mates.)Though classified as a juvenile, "Between Planets" can be enjoyed by a reader of any age.
This is one of his "juvenile" fictions, thus there is much less bottom pinching and kissing than one would expect from Heinlein, but despite the main character being a teenage boy I really really liked it.
(As an aside Starship Troopers was the last Juvenile book that he wrote but the publishers refused to publish it because it was too controversial and after that he didn't write any more intended for a younger audience).
Mars and Venus were both habitable, and both had intelligent life.
For all that it was a juvenile book it came across as intelligently written, even if the style was a little simplistic at times.
The fact that the characters do this generally in space is just a bonus as far as i am concerned.Anyway, this book is about a young man who is going to school on earth.
He is supposed to head to Mars to be with his parents becasue a war is going to break out between Earth and Venus and since he can claim citizenship on both planets, he is caught in the middle.
Oh, and this whole time, he apparently is carrying a secret message that was supposed to be delivered to his parents that will change the course of human history forever and both Earth and Venus want it...
For me, this was a 5 star read.
I wasnt annoyed by anything in the story until the very end, when the author used technology to take over the starring role.
That part was very pulpy, but up to that point it was the best kind of sci-fi.
That being a story about people, that just happens to take place in a sci-fi ennvironment.Our young hero is off on an adventure that crosses three planets.
Still this one was easy to read, I never felt like it was gettig to be a chore, and I recomennd it to anyone who cares to listen at my bookstore.
Heinlein's story of a young adult finishing school on Earth before heading home to Mars, only to find himself stranded by a war between Earth and Venus, has always been a favorite. I'm writing this after reading it in 2014 with the kids, and surprisingly this is probably their least favorite of the Heinlein that I've introduced them to.
He wasn't really libertarian or fascist, but I don't know how else to combine the intense libertine aspects of Stranger in a Strange Land and the obsession with liberty on the one hand with, well, Starship Troopers on the other.
It had the kind of rushed "and now the book is over" ending that a lot of the juveniles do, but the world-building is more and more interesting to me.
Mars is populated in his adult books (especially Stranger in a Strange Land), but I can't tell if the Martians of that series are the same as the Martians of the juveniles or not.Most of all: Heinlein books are just fun.
(Chapter 18, pages 154-155.) As William H Patterson points out in his Introduction to Between Planets, “This time he (Heinlein) would turn Space Cadet inside out, he decided: Instead of a young man deliberately preparing for war, this story would be about a young man surprised and overtaken by war.”Here, in Between Planets, we see the culmination of that ‘progress’, with an independent colony (Venus) demanding liberation from the original home planet, each world accusing the other of taking advantage of their status.
He is eventually released, but his family friend, Professor Jefferson, dies of heart failure whilst under arrest.Don then travels to an Earth orbiting space station en-transit to Mars.
And what does that cheap plastic ring from "Uncle Dudley" have anything to do with anything?In this one, we see some hints of some of Heinlein's political philosophy.
The story doesn't really support the political theory much, except perhaps some scenes in the big city Uncle Dudley lives in and the concept that scientific research should be allowed to go where it naturally goes without government dictating the direction.
However, much of our research is indirectly funded by Big Business and Big Pharma these days, not government, and we are much the worse for the change.
Like many of Heinlein's books it is a classic.
Still a fun read.I read this book long ago.
In fact I still have that version and when looking at it I discovered a notation on the inside front cover that I read it in January of 1975, some 43+ years ago.
I'm afraid that old copy is in pretty bad shape as the binding glue has dried and the pages are still in place only because it is standing in a book case between two other old Heinlein books.
Space Cadet (copyright 1948 and read in July of 1971) and H X 6 (six short stories copyright 1959 also read in July of 1971).
Don Harvey was born between planets (in space) of a mother from Venus and an Earth father.
His parents now live on Mars, doing scientific research, and he's going to school on an Earth ranch.He gets a note from his parents to come home and to visit a friend on the way out.
Things go downhill from there and everyone seems to be gunning for him.
Things get really hairy after that, but I won't spoil it for you.It's vintage Heinlein from his children's books era (older children) and is still fun for me to read several decades after my childhood.
I enjoyed the first 90% of this book. Classic Heinlein juvenile. Good pace. Good characters. Of course, the science is outdated, but, I don’t care about that. I am in it for the stories. Then, it ended very suddenly. I felt like Heinlein ran up against a deadline or a page limit and just ended the book. He wrapped it up, but, after all the set up, I wanted more ending than was provided.
A moving tale, definitely classic Heinlein and not something to be missed for the old school sci-fi fan. For those that missed it, Heinlein corrected predicted the cell phone in the opening scene 40 years before it hit the market. Bravo Mr. Heinlein!!!
I accidentally came across this book last week. I did a quick search on Goodreads and saw people saying it is a science fiction classic. So I had to read it. And I was not disappointed. Well, at times the science felt archaic. But I kept reminding myself that this was first published way back in 1951. Also, the story did not let me down. A classic indeed.
I mention this because I believe that in order to fully appreciate the early juveniles; you should see the illustrations as they were done for the original hardback books.
On Heinlein’s time line of future history this book occurs during a period when the solar system is fully settled and exploited.
This is the first of the juveniles in which Heinlein gives us a clear vision of what warfare would be like in such a time.
His conscience knows that it is right to resist evil, especially when it is hard.My son, who was about 17 at the time he read the book, informed me that I should write a book like this.
In the end it was a great book that kept me up late reading.This book tells the story of Don, a boy borne between planets and therefore a citizen of all the inhabited planets (Earth, Venus, Mars) but also none of them.
The world in which the story is set has natural inhabitants of the three worlds, and at the time of writing (1968) would probably have been up to scratch with our current knowledge of the solar system.
The differences between Heinlein's fiction and our current knowledge don't make me cringe as a lot of older sci-fi does, rather it makes me wish he were right.
I first read Between Planets way back when the Beatles were still extant, and enjoyed listening to this version during a long drive last week. It's one of Heinlein's famous "juvenile" novels (what they call y.a. these days), and it's a terrific coming-of-age tale set in the midst of a three-planet war scenario. It's an inspiring story of resourcefulness in the wake of displacement that seems just as topical and relevant today as it did when it first appeared, and I enjoyed revisiting it almost as I enjoyed that long-ago first reading.
Heinlein is a name to be reckoned with in Science Fiction. This was the first book of his which I read and I enjoyed it quite a bit. It is a quality adventure story and well-suited even for a SF neophyte such as I. Additionally, there are a lot of interesting themes here such as homesickness, authoritarianism, and alienation. Pick this as an introduction to Heinlein.
I thought this book was really dumb. This is probably the book I disagree with my father most over. Normally I let my opinion of a book settle before judging, & if I keep thinking of it years later then that's a great book. I only keep thinking of this book as "that bad book my father liked for some reason"
My Dad gave me Stranger in a strange land for Christmas. Since reading it ive been working my way through Heinlein's library.Between Planets is a short story which was entertaining all the way through, and kept my interest to find out what happened to the hero. Good story with some good ideas. I would recommend this as a light read or first sci-fi read.
Complicated and imaginative, very good.
This was the very first sci-fi book that i read and was pretty much hooked ever since.
another great by a master storyteller
They may vaguely know that such things exist (and that they're absolutely ruthless), but they cling to the bizarre notion that only the evil need fear such abuses.
And without knowing what happened in the past...The crying need is for a better education for ALL citizens of the Solar System...and, if they expand, other places as well.
Even the spies (who should at least be educated well enough to figure out how much information can be packed into a small compass) show evidence of very poor education.No real alternative is offered in this book.
Later Heinlein books do make some attempt to change the minds of the ordinary people.
The French government disagreed and expelled the American agents in Hanoi; its ensuing attempts to reimpose colonial rule quickly ignited a long war.In Between Planets the human Venusians ends up fighting a jungle guerrilla war against a military expeditionary force sent from Earth to "restore order".
The pseudo-dragons play partially the same role as China, e.g. by providing safe havens for the rebels in places where the Federal army will not go for political reasons.The story has a non-Vietnam ending, though (it was written before the decisive battle of Dien Bien Phu).
It's one of Heinlein's "juveniles", with the setting being a nearly-high-school-grad who gets caught up in the middle of a revolutionary war between the planets of the solar system.
That's certainly the primary interest I had in this book, but it was also nice just to read some more Heinlein science fiction about a time period early in the colonization of the solar system that *wasn't* also making attempts to explore human sexuality in bizarre areas or any of the other more psychadelic stuff that Heinlein got into in later years.
So, it was a fun and enjoyable book overall and would've been much more impressive if I'd have read it when it was written in 1951, but not amazing literature or anything like that.
