https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5826.Bel_Canto
This book came highly recommended, and once I started reading, I kept thinking I had already but couldn't, for the life of me, remember how it ended.
I understand its appeal - the coming together of hostages and terrorists alike, but the writing was a bit too ethereal and romantic for me.
Again, I think this was the author's way of romanticizing the event by leaving out the crapping of pants and desperate pleas for loved ones, but everyone was annoyingly contrite and calm, even the terrorists themselves, who seemed awfully nice and understanding.
Even the "about the book" section is dedicated all to loving opera without a mention to the actual crisis that inspired the events.There is a passage in the book about Roxane, the opera singer, singing a Czech piece and Gen, the translator, notes the distinction between knowing the words and speaking the language and only someone who spoke the language would see the lack of understanding.
And the other of what I know about Peru and the crisis situation, trying to meld that visual to this story.I realize that this is a piece of fiction and Patchett has the artistic license to write a fictional description of the crisis anyway she wishes, but I didn't like the story she chose to tell.
This "One-Dayer" deserves applause & praise & it will surely stay with you like some truly terrific (& best yet, catchy) song for days & days to come.What happens when terrorists take over a party held in honor of a Japanese businessman at the house of the Vice President of some unknown South American city?
A translator is thankfully employed, a Diva is made to sing like a modern Scheherazade.
This is what all those characters in Boccaccio did...
! (& anyone reaching the very heights reached by Boccaccio must MUST be extolled!)This Stockholm Syndrome is comical, sad, romantic.
The party is hijacked for political reasons but what transpires during the next few months are the unusual relationships that are forged by the beauty of a voice which unites both terrorists and hostages.
Where for long moments during this siege, captivity is interrupted and they are a group of people witnessing a main attraction, living it day to day.Patchett is an artist.
I searched arias and operas to get a sense of the beauty and passion this music can evoke.
I am smitten now with you, Patchett, but, I reserve the final star for the ending I wasn't as smitten with.
Travelling by train, I had plenty of time to read, but missed a lot of the beautiful countryside (especially of France and Switzerland) because I simply couldn't tear myself away from this book, it was that good.
I had just formed such a strong attachment to the characters in this book that the ending hit me almost as hard as losing a friend.
"Bel Canto" referring to the beautiful song that was the idyllic life of the hostages and captives.
I wasn't as impressed, as moved, or as eager to share this book with others as I was the first time around.
How could a wanna-read-bad TBR turn into a sorry-ass DNF?WTF?
Who doesn’t like a good hostage story, as long as it’s in the hands of a pro?
I don’t know how she did it, but Patchett managed to make a terrorist attack boring.
I don’t know what she was thinking, seriously.I don’t like opera, as I’ve said.
Surely there would have been at least a few hostages and terrorists who didn’t like it either.
I wanted so much to love this book, and god knows I didn’t want to abandon it.
I didn’t want my love of Ann Patchett tainted.
Bel Canto, Ann PatchettBel Canto is the fourth novel by American author Ann Patchett, published in 2001 by Perennial, an imprint of HarperCollins Publishers.
Based on the Japanese embassy hostage crisis (also called the Lima Crisis) of 1996–1997 in Lima, Peru, the novel follows the relationships among a group of young terrorists and their hostages, who are mostly high-profile executives and politicians, over several months.
Set in an unspecified South American country, the story begins at a birthday party thrown at the country's vice presidential home in honor of Katsumi Hosokawa, the visiting chairman of a large Japanese company and opera enthusiast.
هدف آن‌ها رئیس‌ جمهور است، امّا او در این جشن حضور ندارد.
I was introduced to Opera at the age of 10 and since then there has not been a day where I have not listened to it.
I remember traveling through Colombian jungle (with some friends) at the age of twenty four and ran out of batteries for my discman.
(now that's a good friend)so that I could listen at night until we reached the next village.I read "The Patron Saint of Liars" by Patchett in 2013 and thought it was a very good book (3.5 stars) full of psychological insight and an understanding of what disconnection does to family relationships.
Several people in the room are already in love with her, and others will fall in love with the sound of her voice.The moment she's done singing, the room is stormed by guerrilla fighters, and everyone in the home is taken hostage.
Which brings me to one of my favorite characters, the translator Gen. Without Gen, the entire story could not have happened, because he was the one who helped people communicate.
Gen is constantly in demand, translating from English to Spanish to Russian to Japanese and back to English again.There are some surprising and emotional attachments that form -- even Gen falls in love!
-- and by the end of the book, I was in tears.
A priest found his God next to him.Bel Canto embodies art itself.
And Ben Canto beautifully explores that.I wanted to write a book that would be like an opera in its structure, its grandeur, its musicality, its melodrama.Anne Patchette's carefully woven tale moves from one being to another within a room.
Drawing no line for herself, the abundance of well crafted words and flow of noble emotions in this savage plot, can get overwhelmingly on one's nerves which may as well explain the mixed reaction.In Bel Canto best human qualities blossom and present the philosophical problem that comes with the idea of every ideal society.
I was only 3 when Patty Hearst showed up on TV toting a semi automatic weapon looking bewildered and stylish in a  length leather belted coat. Do I remember this? Hell no, I was three, but later… you know when I was like eight or nine and I would think it was so cool that she was brainwashed---what an interesting word--- and I’d have Barbie kidnap Skipper and force her to drop her frumpy ways and really live the lie…, I mean life. Sorry.So, what does that have to do with this? Well, I guess you
Hell no, I was three, but later… you know when I was like eight or nine and I would think it was so cool that she was brainwashed---what an interesting word--- and I’d have Barbie kidnap Skipper and force her to drop her frumpy ways and really live the lie…, I mean life.
I must have been living under a rock, because I do not remember this… you think that something like this would have stuck, you know?
Moreover, I think that this could determine just how much you liked this book.
This work is as lyrical and dramatic as any opera, and the word "brilliant" isn't excessive to describe the talent of author, Ann Patchett.
It's a fascinating story and a rewarding and entertaining character study.The first 100+ pages were slow going as the stage is set; however, the ennui I experienced while reading helped me relate to the monotony of daily life experienced by the guests of a party, who'd been taken hostage in a failed attempt to kidnap the President of a South American country.
A novel about a hostage crisis that goes wrong -- with very sexy results, Bel Canto might have been a better read if at some point Patchett did anything to acknowledge the plot's ridiculousness.
Instead, she treats the readers to vague social commentary about South America, multiple nobel savage tropes, and a crisis situation where people do have sex, but only after first taking the time to fall in love.
It's also somewhat about opera, so allow me the metaphor that Bel Canto hits all the obvious notes with competence but without ever risking enough to engage the audience.Not to be a pure hater, I did love the hell out of the cover art.
I just couldn't do it! The premise was great, the writing was swallowable, but the story! The painful, painful story. There was no character that I truly cared about, and when the "hostages" became "free" or whatever I threw the book across the room and there it has remained ever since. A hefty dust bunny now resides atop. I'd rather read Better Homes and Gardens than finish this one.
yes, i have just discovered betterbooktitles.com
She also implied that I could stand to girly up my reading list a little, which is probably fair.
The characters were all likable and the story was engaging, if wholly improbable (Bel Canto could just as easily have been titled The Lighter Side of Stockholm Syndrome).
My main problem with it was the writing style, which I really didn't care for.
Each sentence is perfectly crafted, and would make any MFA writing professor thrilled, but therein lies the problem.
The writing is so well-crafted sentence by sentence that it ends up being somewhat characterless and a little dull in large portions.
[[notes]] I just watched the movie and I was kind of shocked how it made me a whole lot more emotional than reading the book itself.
Made even weirder by that epilogue.This is the first book I read that I did not like the epilogue.I just didn't feel 'danger' or 'passion' for that matter.
That was the only reason I didn't mark this as dnf.The voices in this had this flat tone to them which was strange considering a large chunk of the book talked about singing and opera and passion.
Because everyone in this LOVED opera THAT MUCH.It felt like the author didn't follow through and just left a lot of things out.
Bel Canto is the second book I've read by Ann Patchett.
Commonwealth was the first and I loved it.
I'd been wanting to read Bel Canto for a long time.
I liked some of the book but there were parts of it that really seemed to drag on and I had no problem setting it aside at intervals.
I felt like the action came very!
late in the story.
For all the hype I'd hear about this book, it was somewhat of a letdown.
That said, I liked the overall story enough to want to finish it.
Ann Patchett, Bel Canto (Harper, 2001)I have spent quite a while mulling this over, and have finally come to the conclusion that, patterned after Greek tragic opera or not, I can't forgive Ann Patchett for the climax of this novel.
But the book finally picked up, everything was going along swimmingly, and then, suddenly, bam-the most predictable possible climax.The story is based on accounts of the guerrilla takeover of the Peruvian embassy in 1992, but Patchett moves the action to another, unnamed, South American country and adds a few extra ingredients into the mix.
After some discussion, I tried to accept it as the pace and events of the book being modeled on Greek tragic opera (where such clichés as the climax of this novel were coined).
When an author loves her characters too much, the reader can often tell.
But in Bel Canto, it's clear that Patchett is in love with her characters, yet she is able to remain objective and in control.
What struck me on completing Bel Canto was that the characters are in a situation that strips them down to their essentials and forces each of them to come to know their true selves.
What Patchett does that feels almost revolutionary is that for every character, from terrorist to CEO, when they see their true selves what they see there is goodness and love for others.
this book is a tribute to the desirability of women.
you can say that the desirability in the book revolves around music but that would be false; it revolves around women.what is powerful, in my opinion, is that this point -- that women are the locus of desirability -- is made in a rather unself-conscious, unexamined way in what seems to me, all things considered, a rather superficial novel (sorry everyone).
There is nothing I can say. I don't even know how.Instead, I will veil my head, lament the deaths of each person loved since the beginning of time, and cry tears of unsurpassed desolation in the hopes that tomorrow, the sun will shine on my face and god will see me standing there.
it was... readable. flat characters. overly foreshadowed. i brought it to the beach b/c i thought it'd be a good beach read. it reminded me of jean-jacques beneix's film Diva, except instead of some large complex crime with lots of confusion and intrigue, it was simple and dull. maudlin and vapid. everyone loves the soprano. everyone loves each other. both music and love are transcendent, ephemeral, and life-altering. the end.p.s. the book definitely takes place in peru.
The plot of her book seems allegorical; it's certainly not realistic, which makes it a surprise that it's based on real events.
She thought - I'm taking much of my information from a terrific interview at the end of the book - she thought, "You know what this story needs is an opera singer," and here we are.What she's carved out of this lengthy hostage crisis is a utopian society: the have-nots forced to coexist with the haves in a world where art is the only diversion and the unifying force.
(hide spoiler)]It's a beautiful song, and this is the best book I've read in a while.
It felt largely like a vacuous prop to be honest, like rattling off a list of arias to prove yourself a connoisseur of the beautiful.But the writing was decent and I decided about a quarter of the way through I shouldn’t be too hard-hearted (and the book aimed to soften the petrified heart).
I took a look at the list of PEN/Faulkner award winners and have to say those I’ve read were in another league.Finally, the end asked too much of me in terms of plausibility.
My mother begged me to read it, as she sometimes does with books she's enjoyed.
I mostly choose to try reading this book because someone I like told me it'd be good, and definitely made it sound interesting.
It feels like there's no distinction between gender eventually, and the small quirks that separate each person start to fade out under all the jabbering about the opera singer.
I can imagine something else happening in a room full of men, isolated for weeks (months, or whatever it might be by the end), with a single, well-dressed woman they keep thinking about.
There is not much happening, literally, or psychologically.I also doubt everyone would be so heavily interested in opera, and be so unconcerned about their lives.
"Bel Canto" may be one of the top ten books I've read this year.
I really felt like I was there and that I was getting to know the characters as they got to know each other.
I felt like one of them.
Without giving anything away, I was totally surprised and shocked by the ending.
However, in retrospect, I realized that it really couldn't have ended any other way.
I recommend "Bel Canto" for everyone._____________________________________________________Added August 28, 2009:I was listening to the radio today.
(This was in regards to the Jaycee Dugard case.) He was talking a bit about the Stockholm Syndrome.
I have no words to express my thoughts on BEL CANTO, but Pat Conroy on pages 173 and 174 of the large print edition of A LOWCOUNTRY HEART:REFLECTIONS ON A WRITING LIFE beautifully reflects my feelings with the following words."But for me, Ann Patchett went to the top of the class when she published Bel Canto, a book that knocked my socks off...Ann Patchett did that wondrous, walking-on-water kind of thing- she created a whole world that contained grand opera, the revolutionary spirit always alive and close to the surface in Latin America, a siege, a story of Shakespearean grandeur, unbearable tension that built up with the turning of every page, a savage denouement, love stories haunted by the approach of death...I had literature all over my hands and face when I finished that book.
All of the love and the longing a body can contain was spun into not more than two and a half minutes, and when she came to the highest note it seems that all they had been given in their life and all they have them came together and made a weight that was almost impossible to bear."   "All of the orchestra supports her now, it reaches with the voices, lifts the voices up, the beautiful voice of Roxane Cossis singing her Gilda to the young Katsumi Hosokawa.
This is a weird and beautiful book about machine guns, chopping onions, and opera singers. Check your disbelief at the door and enjoy the language. I don't care for the ending -- but it was worth it anyway. Lovely writing. ***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement. I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
