https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108632.A_Winter_in_Arabia
I read this in parallel with the recent, excellent bio of Stark, Passionate Nomad, by Jane Fletcher Geniess. Stark's lyrical descriptions of people and settings in the Middle East are matched only by T. E. Lawrence. I became a nuisance with this book, trailing my husband around the house, reading out quotes.
I received this book from a dear friend and it spent years on my bookshelf until I finally finished it.
What a bizarre book for a modern Arab-American to read.
She speaks fluent Arabic and has an understanding of the culture that, frankly, I've never seen in many modern books about this part of the world.
It is impossible to not see it as the colonial, rich, white woman come to be amongst the "natives." Still, her discussions about the treatment of women in this part of the world and the ways in which women interact in community are fascinating.
How things change!Stark travels in the company of two other women, a game geologist, who joins in with the festivals, and an archaeologist uninterested in the locals or their customs (she wears a pair of trousers, which is tantamount to an insult).Stark herself is searching for the old "incense road" and the lost biblical town of Cana, where Jesus turned the water into wine at a wedding.Unusually for a classic travel book, Stark actually spends nearly half of it in bed ill with various fevers, laid low by every malign Arabian "microbe" in a time before vaccination.
"She kissed her forefinger and pressed it on the prettiest of the mannequins and said, "May Allah shower good on them."It is her ability to sketch out the situation for us, along with her affection and sensitivity to this distant culture --- so far from the Europe in which she grew up --- that makes her such an affecting companion on this new journey of hers.
But she explains it away by quoting a local prophet, Sayyid Abdulla, the watch-maker: "To leave one's troubles behind one; to earn a living; to acquire learning; to practice good manners; and to meet honorable men."§ § §One of Stark's greatest virtues --- at least to this reader --- is her ability with the language, her keen turn of phrase.
An interesting concept but a verbose execution.
Freya Stark sounds more intriguing than her writing. In the 30s and 40s , she was one of the first travel writers. That being said her writing is devoid of feeling, dull and boring.
I had never heard of Freya Stark until I read Jessa Crispin's excellent article "How Not to be Elizabeth Gilbert" - https://bostonreview.net/books-ideas/....Stand down, Elizabeth Gilbert and Cheryl Strayed.
You have nothing on the writing and the travels of Freya Stark.
Stark certainly shares her own experiences on her travels, but it's all through the lens of seeking to describe vividly her daily experiences living in a small isolated village in southern Arabia.
Stark paints her surroundings and the people that she meets there wonderfully without judgment nor idealization.
Stark managed to undertake an incredible journey and dictate it so that incredibleness is expressed truly and sincerely, when most people would find it difficult to do either.
In the plateau of British imperialism, she finds herself enthralled by the culture of the people (mostly destitute) throughout the Hadhramaut, and expresses her worry that the inevitable influence of colonialism will be to strip these people of their sincerity, generosity and wit, and replace it with greed.It's a good book, well written and highly sincere.
The reading is a little slow going only because there are phrases that aren't relevant in these modern times, but that is expected when you're reading something that was written almost a century ago.I enjoy how Freya loves the Arabic people and it is refreshing to read a book from that time written by someone who has respect for the people of the land they are visiting.
Anyone who enjoys a little history and Middle Eastern culture will appreciate Freya's descriptions of the culture and her experiences.
But, the book is a bit dull and I had difficulty finishing it.
Because I so enjoyed Alice Steinbach's memoir "Without Reservations" with its many quotes by Freya Stark, I put in a request at the local library for one of Stark's books and got "A Winter in Arabia".
It was difficult to follow her travels in what is now Yeman even with a detailed map from Google so most of the time I had no idea where she was.
She was one brave woman; she was sick in bed most of the time in Yeman; she died in France at the age of 100.
After Isabella Bird, Freya Stark was a breath of fresh air.
She clearly loves everything about the place; the people, the food, the scenery.
Things that would have driven me nuts-- people constantly asking her for money or trying to sell her useless junk, for example, she merely brushes off with a good natured quip.
Strangely, the book has nary a mention of the Second World War, witch must have been on its brink back home.
She also keeps a positive attitude, even when a bronchial infection keeps her in bed for a good chunk of the book.
I greatly admire Freya Stark's travels and life - gutsy, smart, and inspired.
From her own point of view, hers was a richly and brilliantly lived life - and that's not easy to do, particularly for a woman in the early 1900's.
I'm not sure it matters whether she was also a good writer.
I got so bored with the book I put it down and didn't finish it, which is unusual for me and unfortunate since I find both Freya and the Middle East fascinating.
I'm thinking to go back and study some pages just to understand, as a writer myself, why her style failed.
Besides having an awesome name, Freya Stark was quite an interesting explorer and travel writer. She travelled around the Middle Eastern countries alone (shockingly, for her times) in the 1930s and 1940s. She was a British woman, raised in Italy, and with an interest in archaeology and languages. In her travels, she easily won over local people by impressing them with her knowledge of their languages. Her writing is fantastic, when describing both the landscapes and the people. If you have any interest in travel writing, the Middle East, or just great writing, you should check out Freya Stark.
Hmm...
Well I am enjoying, however, I thought it would be different.
There are times it's hard to read: sometimes I don't understand what the diary entry is about, the culture words and names, and its because part of it is in a diary form - it doesn't roll like a story.
When I do understand what the diary entry is about I love learning about how the people of the area live, their culture.
Usually, I don't care for a lot of description, however, in this book it's appreciated.
I recommend this book to those who might already have some knowledge of the area.
Interesting. Gives one an insight into the way the British saw the 'uncivilized world'. It also sheds light on the region one Century ago. Some how, I can't get myself to keep on reading it, even though I've started doing that more that a year ago.The book seems to fit more into the history category rather than a strictly travel book.
Read this book as the State Department recommended it for folks heading to Yemen. Despite reading every word on all 200+ pages, I barely remember a think about this collection of diary entries except that she and her archeologist friend got sick a lot and that Stark appreciated the Yemeni landscapes. Big snooze...
I'm thinking this is more my failure than the author's. I grew quickly bored of this and just DNF... partly I am not outdoorsy, partly the idea of Yemen feels dull because it's mostly, well, outdoorsy. At least back then. as a picture book, it probably would have been fabulous. Scenic as all get out. But the idea of roughing it through the scenery... DNF. Call me shallow.
20 May 2010 - very descriptive, but a little hard to follow where she was going, and some of her terms were unfamiliar. A good glossary would have been helpful. Still it was an interesting snapshot of a moment in time.
Astonishing story and very well-written. Obviously like Thesinger the works she described has now disappeared under mountains of concrete and luxury resorts, so this is a historical gem. Unavoidably blue-stocking but fun all the same.
Profound sections mixed with slow moving parts. Not her best work, but excellent overall.
She writes as though her travels and time Yemen were ordinary, even though they were quite extraordinary for the time.
its gud.
Sorry, I relly enjoyed as much as I read but towards the end I was almost seasick from all the wadis.
Freya Stark easily became my favorite travel writer.
I loved this book. Stark understoond the idea of learning what is important to native people and acting accordingly!
Freya Stark was mentioned in To War with WhitakerBy Hermoine Ranfurly. They met during WW2.
