https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10538.The_Life_and_Times_of_the_Thunderbolt_Kid
That was the saddening part of the book as well - the inevitable loss of innocence that prosperity and productivity brings makes one yearn for the days when going downtown was the highlight of the week, where people dressed up to go out, and where things were just more fun because people didn't know any better.
Bryson played my funnybones like a xylophone!The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid is about growing up in the '50s.
Here on Goodreads, amongst all you worthy readers, I'm ashamed to say I haven't yet read the short stories by Jean Shepherd that the movie is based upon.
But if they're anything like the movie then they're filled with remembrances of how things once were, which is the path Bryson takes.
He also has my kind of sense of humor, so together these things are bound to deliver at least a very enjoyable read.
You read that right, Bryson often, intentionally writes over-the-top when describing outcomes and consequences of his many childhood tales.
Welcome to Des Moines, Iowa and the 1950s! There are some things you should be afraid of (mainly Communism, teenagers, and comic books not approved by the  Comics Code Authority ). But, no need to worry! The  Thunderbolt Kid  (aka  Bill Bryson ) will be your trusty tour guide. Ah, the 50s—a time when cigarettes made you healthy, your daily dose of amphetamines came in morning cereal, soda was the elixir of life, and prominent doctors defended a boy's right to be dirty.* In his telltale jocular b
In his telltale jocular but informative manner, Bryson lets his readers in on some of his childhood exploits, as well as the hopes and fears of the era.
to find you the perfect fit (though, as Bryson mentions, this handy gadget was already on the way out as he was making his way into the world).
This wasn't the best time I've had with Bryson, and children of the 50s will likely have an added layer of nostalgic enjoyment that I just can't appreciate.Well, I'm off to turn on my breakfast—I can't be late for the family reunion in our self-flying car!
In many ways this book – Bryson’s memoir of growing up in Des Moines, Iowa, in the 1950s and 1960s - is also travel writing.
In remembering and sharing his past, Bryson takes his readers to another place and time, both of which he vividly evokes in the narrative.
For me, Bryson's early childhood experiences are the most interesting part of that part of the books which is a personal memoir.
One thing that struck me about Bryson’s discussion of high school was his take on relationships between white and African American students.
However, I wonder whether his African American high school contemporaries would share that view.
I will be reading more by the author.
I think the best way to describe it is as a book of snapshots of a kid's life in the fifties in Mid-America, rather than either a biography of Bryson or a history book.
I felt right at home, myself being born in Milwaukee the same year.
It felt like going home.
I felt this through the author's choice of words, the food we ate, the toys we shared, the movies we saw and the jokes and gadgets and life of a kid then and there.
Bryson narrates his own book.
Book ReviewThe Life and Times of the Thunderbolt KidBy Bill BrysonReviewed by Tom CarricoI am not usually one to enjoy a memoir.
He describes his refusal to participate in the required civil defense drills, pointing out to his elementary school teacher the absolute irrationality of thinking that crawling under a desk could protect a child from a nuclear explosion.
He constructed his own alter-ego and named him Thunderbolt Kid. He imagined his super powers and practiced making teachers and principals disappear.The greatest segments of Thunderbolt are when Bill Bryson recalls the early days of television.
The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid by Bill Bryson is available in trade paperback from Broadway Books publishers.
This was the start of a definite return to form after a positive dip in the standard of Bill Bryson's books.What Bryson gives us here is all about growing up in 1950's America - largely autobiographical, although with Bryson's usually interesting and entertaining digressions, it's a strong book and a must for all fans of the world and works of Bill Bryson.
Young Bill Bryson always pictured himself as a superhero and in this novel, he is one.The Thunderbolt Kid is a somewhat fictionalized retelling of Bryson's childhood. Interspersing key events (such as the ever-present threat of nuclear war and humorous portrayals of his family) with the heroic efforts of the Thunderbolt Kill. Fun, charming and a bit precocious.Audiobook CommentsRead by Bill Bryson - so cool when an author reads their own book!Blog | Instagram | Twitter
This was a hilarious memoir from Bill Bryson. I grew up in Iowa too, so it made the book even a little better. Highly recommended!
the moment i spit an unhealthy mixture of sprite and airline peanuts all over the back of a poor old lady sitting five inches in front of me on my southwest flight, i was trying to curb my hysterical laughter so hard.I finished the entire thing between Arizona and JFK, even with periodic breaks for adjusting my chair angle repetitively and making the two morbidly obese young women between me and the aisle get up so I could use the bathroom.
Not because one of the aforementioned young women ate an entire tube of pringles in my ear in the last hour).
Baby Boomers Go to School20 September 2016 I wasn't really sure about this book because while Bryson's story about his trek around the continental United States was very entertaining, and quite informative, the idea about reading about somebody's childhood didn't really appeal to me – I've never been a big fan of autobiographies (or biographies in general). However I never really thought much of travelogues either before I read The Lost Continent, but then I guess it had a lot to do with Bryson'
Baby Boomers Go to School20 September 2016	I wasn't really sure about this book because while Bryson's story about his trek around the continental United States was very entertaining, and quite informative, the idea about reading about somebody's childhood didn't really appeal to me – I've never been a big fan of autobiographies (or biographies in general).
As for television, well, the interesting thing that I noted that was in the fifties product placement wasn't just a vending machine in the background, it was somebody walking onto the set and actually plugging the product – it's something that I simply cannot imagine happening these days – even product placement, as blatant as it is at times, is nowhere as bad as what Bryson was describing.
Ревю => http://justonebooklover.blogspot.bg/2...~ ~ ~От известно време се канех да прочета нещо на Бил Брайсън, тъй като съм го приела за синоним на думата "хумор", а в много моменти човек се нуждае именно от малко хумор и ето, че с "Животът и времето на Хлапето Мълния" тази възможност ми се отвори.
И напълно очаквано - тази книга беше ужасно забавна, но и изпълнена с много носталгия по детството и описания на все по-бързо променящата се Америка.
С тази си симпатична автобиография Бил Брайсън не беше изненада за мен, но пък беше едно малко откритие, което със сигурност ще имам предвид и за бъдещ избор на четиво.
I listened to this on CD, read by the author, so of course it was wonderful.
Things go by so fast on audio that you can't go back and re-enjoy the really good parts.
Bryson is hilarious while at the same time providing a lot of interesting historical things about the 1950s and 60s, both the good and the bad.
He really tells a great story about his ordinary but wonderful childhood in Des Moines.
Later on in the book, Bryson discusses how drastically things have changed since then, and how sad it is that some of those simpler times are gone forever.
"Хлапето Мълния" безспорно е най-любимата ми книга на Бил Брайсън (без да съм изчела всичките му произведения).
Сред нижещите се една след друга комични ситуации обаче прозират сериозни теми като ядрените опити и Кубинската криза, описани трезво и аналитично, в типичния за Брайсън стил.
Тази книга не бива да се преразказва, трябва да се прочете и да се преживее в духа на носталгията по идеализирания свят на детството, която всеки от нас изпитва от време на време.
И да, както няколко човека ми споменаха, наистина има допирни точки с най-страхотния за мен мемоар - "Автобиография" на Бранислав Нушич :)
With that said, I made this trade against my better judgment because I was flirting with a 20 year old, another lapse in judgment, apparently.Anyway, he championed this book as very funny and a very popular author in UK in general.
After reading this book, I realize why he is only popular in the UK and not in his homeland--because he sucks.
He meaders into fluff history essays that at times are racist--not funny, wildly inappropriate.I'm sorry, UK, your golden age of literature is evidently over and I take no responsibility for this American--he has clearly rejected us and I would like to return the favor.DO NOT READ.
As I look back upon all the memoirs I have read, I realize most are horribly tragic in some way.
No wonder I'm so depressed!Bryson's autobiography, on the other hand, is a breath of fresh air.
Nothing tragic.
Bryson, a child of the 50's, captures all the excitement of growing up in post WW2 era.
One of my favorite parts was when Bryson realized his desk would not save him from the bomb, so he opte out of the drills.
The only way this could be better is if Bryson were to tell it to me, in person, over a few beers.An extraordinary read of an ordinary life.
My son has been raving about Bill Bryson's for some time now, but I was not sure that they would appeal to me.
After hearing others rave about his memoir: The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid, I thought this might be a fun audio book.
Bill Bryson and I were born a year apart, and as baby boomers growing up in the 50's and 60's, I found this memoir to be a trip down memory lane.
He could be describing a whole lot of baby boomers in this memoir.
The Life and Times of the Thunderbolt Kid is a must read for anyone who grew up in the fifties and sixties. He captures life in the fifties and early sixties through the lens of a pre-teen boy. Though he grew up in one of Iowa's larger cities and I grew up in a small New Mexico town, the experiences are very similiar. Be ready to laugh out loud, but beware, he uses some language that I would have been given the old "Wash your mouth out with soap" treatment.
It is when he is elaborating on this time that I am captivated, but when he speaks specifically about his own life I get a little bored.
How sad, I thought, that his life was just a loose assemblage of every coming of age movie ever made.
I really feel that if a character is in the title (The thunderbolt kid for instance) that character should have more of a presence than just a snide snippet at the end of an occasional paragraph.I did not, however, hate the book.
It is just a little long winded at times, and the Thunderbold Kid parts seem especially pointless.
I could not bear to read much further than the first couple of chapters because Bryson's reverence for 1950s America is simultaneously disturbing, sad, and incredibly naive.
While I'm sure some Americans may have enjoyed the post-war wave of prosperity, Bryson fails to mention that more than half the population (women & non-whites) were still mired in the grim social circumstances set to implode in the 1960s.
I'm not sure if this book gets any better but I couldn't bear to go on.
This type of storytelling seems beneath Bryson; his other books are so much better.
The Gallup Poll people apparently have established that 1957 was the happiest year for people living in America.
(I think we can assume that Gallup means middle class white people.) THUNDERBOLT KID is Bill Bryson's remembrance of his childhood in those happy times.Bryson grew up in Des Moines IA, in the bucolic 1950s.
His childhood was largely unremarkable, but he is such a talented story teller that reading him recount episodes of childhood is unfailingly entertaining and, often, laugh out loud funny.
THUNDERBOLT is not memorable.
And you might wind up wishing that you had been able to read his dad's sports reporting for the Des Moines Register.
Like every other Bill Bryson book I've read, this one is utterly delightful, hilarious, endearing and charming.
I'm sure my husband grew tired of hearing me laugh out loud when I would stay up late reading, but I couldn't help it -- Bryson's stories are too funny to hold in the giggles.There's also a good bit of U.S. history in the book to ground the chapters, but Bryson even manages to make the Cuban missile crisis and the threat of nuclear annihilation seem humorous.This book would make a great gift for anyone who grew up in the 50s or who grew up in the Midwest.
(Don't tell my dad -- he's getting this book for his birthday.)
Very easy and enjoyable to read.Very funny and oddly made me nostalgic for the 1950'seven though I wasn't born then.
My favorite books, actually (ie A Tree Grows in Brooklyn) are not my favorite because they tell stories of heroism or defeat, but because the characters are so, so human.
Also, a lot of the things Bryson talks about, like duck and cover, the obsession with nuclear weapons, the booming economy and commercialization, were all things that I loved learning about in APUSH.
The singular narrative is a lot more interesting to me than war, which is why stories like The Book Thief are so popular.
Although I loved this book because it lightened my heart, I do wish Bryson had talked more about his adult life.
This is an addendum to my previous review.I had to read this for my book club this month and as it was an enjoyable trip down a nostalgic lane for this Iowa boy, I found something oddly revealing in Bryson's glowing adoration for the 1950s.
Inside of a dog it's too dark to read.” The Thunderbolt Kid is wildly funny, a simple memoir of Bryson's childhood in Des Moines in the 1950s.
Oddly enough, change comes slowly to Iowa and I could relate to much of his experience and sentiment having spent my own Iowa childhood in the 1960s.
Bill Bryson makes magic in this heartfelt memoir about his childhood in Iowa in the 1950's.
His take on the forces which shaped American life mid-century, in the middle of the country, is spot-on hilarious.
Exaggerating the ordinary and reveling in the extraordinary, he offers up an unforgettable depiction of the decade that shaped modern America.
For all its innocence, the cultural landscape was shifting inexorably, driven by the explosion of television and the preponderance of the automobile.
Bryson captures these shifts in a manner which is familiar, yet uniquely his own.
Anyone who is-or knows-a baby boomer, has to read this.
Bill Bryson is best suited for travel writing, where his crotchety personality shines through and assures us that the act of traveling is not always as romantic as Kerouac would have you believe-in other words, its ok to go through hell before you start to have a good time.
His memoirs are good because he is funny and disparaging and all that Bryson is supposed to be, but the preachiness regarding the decline of small-town middle America is a bit much.
You can't quite avoid the feeling that he wouldn't consider your own childhood, spent in suburbia and various McDonald's, quite worthy of the great nostalgia and idealism that he attaches to 1950's Iowa.
There are definitely laugh out loud portions of this book, particularly the sections on elementary school and cinema matinees.Bryson captures with feeling the atmosphere of the 50’s. There were a ‘lot’ of kids in the 50’s and early sixties. Stores and downtowns were different. There is a kind of ‘Peanuts’ quality to this era. There was a security blanket which is now lost.Bryson does extend the truth and it is difficult at times to know how stretched out the exaggerations are – kids building bombs in their own homes would carry completely different connotations in this day and age.
An interesting and quirky snapshot of Des Moines in the 1950s told from the perspective of a young, would-be superhero. Typically Bryson with some seriously laugh out loud moments (the tv clothing range in particular got me). This was a quick, fun read.
Но имам чувството, че съм започнала тази книга много, много отдавна, и че не просто чета, а вървя с Хлапето Мълния /което е всъщност самият Бил Брайсън, или по-скоро, неговото тогавашно, 9-годишно Аз/ по пътищата на една непозната за мен Америка.
Но признавам, че сега, когато чета тази книга, ми е и малко тъжно, защото осъзнавам, че онези деца, от неговото поколение, са имали детство, което сега звучи като невероятна приказка.
