https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110095.An_Assembly_Such_as_This
Elizabeth as seen through this Darcy's eyes is similarly a blend of irritating feminine tropes who would probably seem a lot more sympathetic if you turned her into a drinking game (sip every time the author describes her as "delicate").
(People do not "quirk" their eyebrows nearly as often as she thinks they do, nor are snorts usually "delicate." *slurp*) The book improves just a bit after Darcy gets to London and the author leaves Austen's narrative (and Darcy's obsession with Elizabeth) mostly behind.
[Unnecessary use of passive voice -- sentence would be stronger if it read "..., even Miss Bingley refrained from soliciting his opinion." Full stop.
Maravilloso! Creo que la autora ha hecho un magnífico trabajo de documentación en cuanto a época y costumbres, y que ha sabido captar a la perfección el corazón de Darcy. Esta versión de Orgullo y Prejuicio me ha conquistado. A por el segundo ;)
DNF at about 20%.
This came very highly recommended by a couple of GR friends as the cream of the crop when it comes to Jane Austen take-offs, but it was not what I was expecting.
It's a dead-serious retelling of the entire Pride and Prejudice story, from Darcy's point of view.
What I read, I found rather boring.
And Aidan takes three volumes to retell the whole story!
This book just ends about 1/3 of the way through.
O_oI can see myself enjoying this book these books sometime later when I'm in a really serious need for an Austen fix.
I should be more open minded, especially considering the fact that I've bitched for years saying I always wanted Darcy's perspective on the Pride and Prejudice story.
Yes, I know this is fanfiction and a retelling written by a modern author, but sadly I've become too used to stories where there's a heavy focus on the lead couple spending a good chunk of time together.
*Dodges the thrown shoe.* Yes, I KNOW I'm a walking moron, especially when considering that's the antithesis of the Pride and Prejudice story and how dare I be so asinine as to use that as a criticism.
While this book isn't a sequel, it's a wannabe adaptation: the first of three novels which basically retell the story of Pride and Prejudice from the viewpoint of Mr. Darcy.
This one ends after the ball at Netherfield, with Darcy and Miss Bingley conspiring to remove Charles from Hertfordshire.While Aidan manages to capture some of the language of the time, she doesn't attempt to be Jane Austen and I appreciated that.
One even wonders if her adaptations come from Colin Firth's Darcy, more than Jane Austen's Darcy.
Being an avid Jane Austen fan, when I heard that there was a good addition to the list of P&P sequels and spin-offs, I was all gung-ho on reading them.
Boy was I wrong!
Aidan dwelt far to long on Darcy's 'Passion'.
We meet Darcy, in the next chapter he's in love, and so for the rest of the series we get to suffer through his little idiocies of love-sickness.
Now, don't get me wrong here, I'm a hopeless romantic, but it has to Romantic, not just Mushy.
Don't read these.
It almost tainted my view of Mr. Darcy.
"It was tolerable but not enough to convince me."Pam - it was a great idea but you overwrote it.No doubt it doesn't matter a jot, Pam has sold loads of these pretty crappy books, but here's why I didn't enjoy it.1) Too much information2) Austen didn't write about politics - you should've left it out.3) I was really only reading it to find out about D's reaction and thoughts to E, but we got huge amounts of info where D was in town, D was talking to his horse, D was yabbering with his valet.
Austen did it; the fact you couldn't do it proves you're full of wind.Don't read this.
WARNING: If you are reading this review I have assumed that you have read the original work which this book is a retelling of,Pride and Prejudice,if you have not this review contains spoilers.Being inside Darcy's head is dream come true for Pride and Prejudice fans.
I have always thought it must have been hard for Darcy to trick Bingley to not got back to Hertfordshire and Aidan's portrayal of Darcy's inner struggle was spot on.The secondary character's Aidan has added are great and I think Jane herself would have loved them.One of my favorite new character's was Fletcher, Darcy's valet.
Part of the great charm of Pride & Prejudice lies in the mystery surrounding Mr. Darcy.
I thought that the story was remarkably fresh, despite having read P & P multiple times.
So much time is spent describing Mr. Darcy's every thought and action that the story of Pride & Prejudice is stretched into a trilogy, of which An Assembly Such as This is but the first.But for that one flaw, this story would easily have rated five stars.
But don't pay too much attention to my criticism--I still plan to read the second and third books of the trilogy!
This is book one of three retelling P&P from Darcy's perspective.
It begins with the arrival at the Meryton Assembly and ends with Darcy in London after separating Bingley and Jane.
Overall I found the pacing to be glacial, the details to be unnecessary and the characters insipid.
I can't figure out this Darcy; does he have Asperger's?
Also I cannot determine his relationship with his valet.
The valet is annoying and overbearing.
There is nothing specifically objectionable about the writing until you encounter a snippet of JA's brilliant prose and then the remainder of the book seems to dim.
In this manner, Aidan takes us to the point where Mr. Darcy has taken his friend away from Netherfield and the attractions of the Bennett sisters and been followed by Bingley's sisters.Lovers of Austen's writing will be cheered in the early chapters to come across much dialogue lifted verbatim from the original, but as the book progresses and Darcy leaves Netherfield for London, these become less common.
(Aidan seems to make the mistake of many in assuming that all marriages of the past were either society-defying love-matches or else craven exercises in loveless practicality.) I would recommend this to someone who enjoyed reading historical romances, but not to a fan of the writing of Jane Austen.
It is broken up into three novels instead of the original one and I felt like it was a bit stretched up and filled with "empty calories".
It comes across as a book so obviously written by a modern author trying to sound period and it is a bit awkward.
The language comes across a bit clunky and forced.
Even more than the language my real reason for not really liking this book was that I found I preferred for Mr. Darcy to remain a bit of a mystery.
I really disagreed in many instances with the author's portrayal and felt like she had put herself in a no-win situation.
Pamela Aidan produced a look into Mr. Darcy's heart and mind concerning all the events of the Austen story.
No one can write like Jane Austen but Pamela Aidan did a good job of creating a Mr. Darcy in language, manner, and character that was very satisfying to me.
The last book gives more satisfying details into the stories conclusion.
Aidan intruduces some new characters and gives us deeper insight into the Austen personalities.
The books portrayed a Darcy that Jane Austen would have approved--with values and good character.
3.5 stars!
I tend to shy away from modern books whose authors take off where a classic author left off, in this case, Jane Austen.
My biggest complaint, though, is that the book was just plain boring at times.
Darcy meets with his steward and goes over his business interests which leads to...nothing.
Unfortunately, when Elizabeth Bennet isn't in the picture, Darcy's life is, well, BORING.
The worst part was towards the end when Darcy and Bingley attend a soiree where Darcy tries to get Bingley's mind off of Jane Bennet.
But the author never explains the attire.
Then Darcy bests some man in a cravat-tying contest.
In my opinion, Katharine's review was way better written than the book and a lot more entertaining.
There were way too many details about absolutely nothing, and it seemed to me that she was just trying to fill pages by yapping on about bow ties, a horse (yes, an actual horse with a human personality) and that book Mr. Darcy was reading!
She (excuse me, he…Half the time I couldn’t tell if he was a man or a woman) really didn’t make his character clear, and he totally served NO purpose in the book.
Although I enjoyed the beginnings of Darcy's side of the story in this book, I think it moved a bit slowly.
Some chapters seemed dragged out, especially when Elizabeth wasn't present in the narrative.
The scenes with them together are the most fun, since we see Austen's dialogue juxtaposed with Aiden's take on Darcy's mind.
If this wasn't the story of Pride & Prejudice, I probably wouldn't have finished the series out, but I couldn't help continuing to find out what went through Darcy's mind in the rest of it.
The third book absolutely makes it worth struggling through the first two.
I didn’t realize this was a series. Ahhhhh. That being said I did like it but I’m not sure that I’ll keep reading the other two. Maybe I’ll read them as my pride and prejudice retelling next year.
OMG this book is so detailed.Like SOOO detailed.
I love reading Austen retellings.
Like take the events of one book:Pride and Prejudice and DRAG THEM ON into 3 books.
Darcy and the Bingleys leave Netherfield and go to London.
There are things in London with Darcy going to parties and meeting historical figures (Caroline Lamb for one).
Darcy is kind of a douche here.
And the insta-love he feels for Elizabeth I don't really like.
I'm of the opinion that he likes the way she looks (Lively and witty and laughing.) and then the things she does, being smart and challenging him and caring for Jane bring about a slow burn love.
This 1st volume in Pamela Aidan's fresh and entertaining trilogy that tells the story of Pride and Prejudice though the eyes of Fitzwilliam Darcy, Gentlemen, is enjoyable.
Take the events of the parent novel and give a spin on them that fits canon, but plays with it at the same time.The only thing that I really disliked was that I rather thought Darcy too besotted with Elizabeth.
The writing turned a little too sappy for me at times and I would have preferred less mooning over Elizabeth's fine eyes or the way that she distracts him.
First read 9/28/2014Congrats book and author....another star!!!! I was skeptical when this was suggested as an Austen in Boston read for this month. My "memory" ofthe book was hazy at best. And....."Darcy Darcy Darcy" but some of the interactionsbetween Darcy and valet....priceless! I might go on to read parts two and three.
Me gusta como se encajan algunas cosas, otras a mi juicio no creo que las pensara el Darcy de Austen, pero he disfrutado con este personaje.La lectura es más lenta que la de Orgullo y prejuicio, Darcy es más pausado y tiene una vida menos movida que la de la familia Bennet, lo interesante de la novela es la curiosidad que nos despierta conocer estos detalles.
While it wasn't so bad that I couldn't finish it. If it would have been any longer, I probably would have tossed it aside. I felt that I understood more about Darcy's relationship with his sister than I did his relationship with Elizabeth. I really wanted to like this book but found the entire book rather pointless. I will not continue to the others in this series.
The best of the P&P through Darcy's eyes, bar none. I really enjoyed the series, and liked this first book the best.Like so many readers, I enjoyed the relationship between Darcy and his valet, Fletcher, in particular.
A good start to this trilogy of books. I'll wait to give a full review till I finish all three, but this one was a fun look into Darcy's thoughts at the beginning of P&P and how he started to notice Elizabeth.
Creo que le di dos estrellas porque Mr Darcy es el protagonista, una lectura sumamente tediosa a decir verdad, no me gustó, no leeré el resto y tampoco lo intentaré más tarde.
I don't know why, maybe its the fault of our modern times when proud and haughty are just not very common, but many interpretations I have read/seen seem to go for something along the shy/awkward scale for Mr Darcy.
And proud/haughty/arrogant is not the same thing as shy/awkward!
I sometimes feel like some authors should not be writing Pride and Prejudice works but rather write their original stories under the title Shy & Impertinent or Awkward & Angry, which is the two characterisations one usually gets for Darcy and Elizabeth.
Puede que no sea para mí el mejor momento para leer este libro y que algún día lo vuelva a intentar y lo pueda terminar sin tener que OBLIGARME a continuar en todo momento, puede que más adelante me guste y lo disfrute o puede que eso nunca pase (QUIÉNSABE), pero la verdad ahora no me gusta y no tengo ganas de perder mi tiempo con un libro como este.¿Y cuál es mi problema?
O sea, no me jode si describe ponele, un atuendo especial o la relación de Darcy con otros personajes pero ¿Con el caballo, en serio?
Although Aidan's prose does tend to be a bit heavy on the melodramatic side of things, quite honestly that adds to the fun of reading the novel.
An Assembly Such As This takes the reader through the first third of Pride and Prejudice, up to the point that Darcy and Bingley's sisters conspire to remove Charles from the influence of Jane Bennet.
I can't recommend this book enough for any fans of Austen's Pride and Prejudice.
I didn't even finish.Totally not...
accurate.
Completely overly detailed.
"the wine went under his tongue, he thought about _ _ and then he swallowed".
The writer is trying way too hard to sound like Jane Austen, using words like "portal" instead of "door".
An entire paragraph of what seemed like a pointless description of his horse!
And he is TOTALLY over the top for Elizabeth!
r.i.d.i.c.u.l.o.u.s. I just do NOT think that that is how a man falls in love.
obviously written by a woman who thinks Mr. Darcy is the dreamiest, most thoughtful, sensitive, wonderful dream boat of a man!!
