https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135503.A_Delicate_Balance
Sometimes I’ll tune into a soap opera when I’m home sick just to see if any faces are being slapped.I’m not sure who Harry and Edna are meant to represent.
Probably they aren’t meant to “represent” anyone and I’m just being overly analytical as usual, but their presence in the play and their bizarre interactions with Agnes and Tobias are just a trifle too…weird…not to possess some sort of subtextual meaning.
Glenn Close and John Lithgow will be assuming the roles of Agnes and Tobias.
Inspired by Albee's memories of his grotesque parents and drunken aunt, living in suburban luxury, he becomes stylized with a hint of Pinter and introduces a neighbor couple who seek refuge because of an unknown "threat." In this play about Nothing, Albee punctuates his themes of loneliness & refined confinement with savage talk. A lot of brandy in a dribble glass.
Very good writing. I disliked all the characters. I didn't know what the play was about, which is OK, but a critic's blurb on the cover stated it was about the nothingness in our lives. It did have that 60's, nihilistic, hopelessness feel to it, which I often like (Heller, Vonnegut), but these characters annoyed the crap out of me and made me want to suggest they get hobbies or go for a bike ride. Something.
I liked this more than I thought I would, you can really see a shift between the slightly more realistic 'virginia woolf' stuff and the weird later 'seascape' stuff. I really like that the plot is set in motion by the couple arriving simply because they are 'afraid'. That he doesn't feel the need to explain this. It's an important thing to realize, that you can just include a plot development like that and it doesn't require an explanation.
Edward Albee is one of my favorite playwrights, and this play does not disappoint. The story involves an upper middle class, dysfunctional family that begins to crumble as the weight of alcoholism, divorce, age, and fear becomes too much for their already shaky home to stand. Albee's use of humor is subtle, but brilliant, and the drama cuts deep to something very personal in the reader. It is very deserving of the Pulitzer Prize and the Tony Award.
Albee is a brilliant playwright with a theatrical mastery and talent that resonates with Samuel Beckett. The play is charged with malice and characters on the verge of nervous breakdowns. Their sanity is sustained by a delicate balance they try to keep as they face the madness of daily living, their haunting pasts and monotonous futures. That delicate balance is something we all try to manage subconsciously; keeping us just a few blocks away from the dark side.
If you like your plays full of self-obsessed, pitiful drunks, whining about the nothing was of existence and tearing each other apart with sarcasm, then you'll love this play.
A Delicate Balance starts off promising enough, incorporating so many of the elements that make Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf so pleasurable to watch: caustic quips, outlandish scenarios, surreal wit, scathing social commentary. By the end of the second act, though, the plot's become tedious, the dialogue repetitive, the characters dull. The play, as with much of Albee's work, never realizes its potential. It stalls, steadily losing its initial grasp on the audience's attention, and it ends in a rather deflated form on an unearned note of profundity.
my thoughts on "a delicate balance" or what's the problem with rich, white, and privileged americans 101 by edward albee...this play started off as very confusing for me as it startled me as a reader through its unconventional dissection of the storytelling and narrative progression.
this is the first time i have read albee and it was breathtaking, heart-stopping reading experience.
this play started out as a satire of rich, white american's lifestyle surviving through chaos and their careless indifference to their own family members.
she is like 'the joker' who just wants to watch the whole world burn.
"We do what we can...we keep it from falling apart"Honestly, I could write essays and essays about this play and I've spent probably too much time trying to figure out how to write this review.
I first saw a production of it about six months ago and I've been preoccupied with it since then - running so many of the lines through my mind so regularly.
I've only recently purchased and read it, but having it in print has only made my attachment more intense.
This play deserved the Pulitzer that it won in 1967.
(In my book, not every Pulitzer prize winning play merited that honor.) These points notwithstanding, I gave the play 4, not 5 stars, because its literary merits, which deserve 5 stars, appeal predominantly to the intellectual.
Though it is existential in a neo-existential way, meaning this play is often funny and engaging in a visceral way, rather than a purely intellectual exercise, it brought to mind the final line of Sartre's play, "No Exit": "Hell is other people." Albee's play examines the ties that bind, stressing loyalties, not frailties.
Albee’s first Pulitzer Prize.
Some argued at the time that the play was “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf” unsexed and with its mouth washed out with soap in order to win over the Pulitzer committee (which shockingly passed over “Virginia Woolf” a few years before) and there are certainly elements of the plays that call each to each, but this is a much more ambitious, philosophical, even metaphysical work.
Absurdist drama of the highest order, a black comedy sparkling with stinging wit, gorgeous flights of language, and hot flashes of existential panic.
One of Albee’s greatest, which means one of the greatest, period.
CLAIRE: Is Julia having another divorce?TOBIAS: Hell, I don't know.CLAIRE: (Takes the glass.) It's only your daughter.
I should imagine--from all that I have...watched, that it is come-home time.
(Offhand.) Why don't you kill Agnes?TOBIAS: (Very offhand.) Oh, no, I couldn't do that.CLAIRE: Better still, why don't you wait till Julia separates and comes back here, all sullen and confused, and take a gun and blow all our heads off?
Agnes first--through respect, of course, then poor Julia, and finally--if you have the kindness for it--me?TOBIAS: Do you really want me to shoot you?CLAIRE: I want you to shoot Agnes first.
Alluding to it's timelessness Albee is said to have changed only 2 lines before the 1996 revival. Though well struck, the play, as a whole, is dead; a post War, WASPy, booze-soaked relic of the past. A cocktail period piece that barely has the legs of a good chapter or two of Updike or Cheever; though Parker Posie was born to be cast as Julia and Shirley Maclaine would be a pitch perfect Claire.If it's an untimely guest you're after, stick to Godot. Otherwise, Journey remains the singular American "family" drama.
The first new Albee I have read since Three Tall Women, this Pulitzer Prize-winner is characteristic of that subtle, unsettling style of Albee's; the one that seems to surreptitiously, subconsciously strip you of all defenses. His mastery of use of complex language to elicit the rawest of emotion is retroactively indicative of all his proceeding work, and just goes to show how true talent never fades.
Albee is one of the best contemporary playwrights out there, if not THE best, and this is the best of the best. You should absolutely read or see Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, since that is known as his magnum opus, but I think this is actually a better play. It's beautiful and haunting and thought-provoking and touches on grand, universal themes yet holds Albee's originality.
Anisette... Sticky.
This one doesn't quite grab you by the collar as "Virginia Woolf" does. Rather, it settles above your diaphragm and claws at you from the inside.
Not in my view, and I think of a short story by Thomas Mann, where a personage is calling into question the ease with which we say-	I love you, you are such a great friend- words cannot express it.-	This is nonsense, says that wise man: -	words like love, friend and more- mean such wonderful things that we do not see them in real life- we just say big words, without much to back themThe same goes for these guys: for how can you come at the door of friends, move in and take over the running of some things, just because you say you are “friends”.Oh, I forgot- Edna uses another argument- that they are also godparents to Julia and therefore entitled to various privileges.This edgy state of affairs brings out some other issues and characters are forced to choose between friends and family-	they brought with them the plague, says Agnes-	Tobias, you have to make a decision-	Why?
A DELICATE BALANCE. (1966). Edward Albee. *****. This was a Pulitzer Prize winning play from this playwright that manages to explore the stresses and strains within family life, and the forces that are applied to keep things in balance – necessary for survival. Agnes and Tobias are a married couple in their late 50s. They have reached a point in their lives where they have lived more in the past than remains to them in the future. Agnes’ sister, Claire, lives with them. She avers that she is not
This was a Pulitzer Prize winning play from this playwright that manages to explore the stresses and strains within family life, and the forces that are applied to keep things in balance – necessary for survival.
She manages to bring reality in this family life with a sharp edge of sarcasm.
Julia is the daughter of Agnes and Tobias.
Edna and Harry are the best friends of Agnes and Tobias, and precipitate the first crisis when they suddenly show up on Tobias’ doorstep and tell them that they are moving in.
With the added weight of Edna and Harry, the balance of the family changes.
The one thing that struck me throughout the play is the uneasiness between Tobias and Claire.
A critical reading of the play and after much discussion with my professor, the scenario was clear- Claire is a rape victim and the "common" aspect between Tobias and Harry that Claire tried to point out is is practically this.
Also the repeated sarcastic inquiries by Agnes from both Claire and her husband also redirects us to the haunting reality of the "hot and wet July".A brilliant piece of work by Albee, the play creates a silent uneasiness in the spectators and brings them close to the dark phenomenon of going insane.
This play focuses on a upper middle class couple (Agnes and Tobias), their alcoholic sister (Claire), their daughter Julia (a serial divorcee), and their best friends Harry and Edna.
The play unfolds over a three-day period where they trade barbs with each other about their dysfunctional lives, and the stifled existences each of them have been living.
The play hints at a shared dark past between Harry and Edna and Agnes and Tobias, but never goes beyond mere intimations.
As a result, I didn’t find the play satisfying, nor engaging.
bleak. depressing. I ran lights for a production of this play and halfway through the run one of the actors mentioned how draining it was to play, night after night, such an unhappy character in a play that is so tense from beginning to end.excerpt:“Time.Time happens, I suppose.To people. Everything becomes…too late, finally. You know it’s going on…up on the hill; you can see the dust, and hear the cries, and the steel…but you wait; and time happens. When you do go, sword, shield…finally…there’s nothing there…save rust; bones; and the wind.”
I saw the play and became interested in reading the script directly.
I read a couple of other plays by Albee while I was at it.
I loved the play performed and would like to see other versions of it but perhaps I will not re-read it.
It has been awhile since I read this but I recall finding it somewhat challenging reading desperate people who keep talking about themselves.
But the experience of friends who fled from their house or the man and his cat all seem real to me when I saw the play performed and in a way more intimate when reading it.
This makes for a pretty horrible reading experience with so many stage & character directions, but it's a potent, and masterfully written, play. There's a lot to unpack. I like the underlying thread, which to me is: what are the invisible boundaries in all of our relationships? what happens when we push past them, past comfort? what does it mean to be comfortable? what is hospitality? and what is owed?I can't say I found the play particularly moving, or that I'd recommend it, but I'm glad to have read an important part of the canon.
This play seems rather typical of the period for which it was written. A bit boring by today's standards and I think that even a remounting would have to be seen as a period piece rather than a current look at human behavior.I wouldn't mind seeing a brilliant, current production, by I can see where I might easily be bored by a less than stellar performance. A good director will keep the humor out front and the drama, biting at the edges.
Bunch of annoying and despicable characters arguing.Along the lines of Who's afraid of Virginia Wolf, Albee dedicates an entire play about absolutely nothing. Only that this is repetitive and tad boring.
More marital madness. Greater nuance than Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolf? but not nearly as dementedly entertaining.
Far more nuanced and complex than "Who's Afraid.." and I adore "Who's Afraid." This is one of those rare books that could be read over and over again for a lifetime.
I would like to see this performed now. I didn't find any of the characters likable, and yet I sympathized with all of them at some point.
