https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/322665.Veeck_As_In_Wreck
As Dickson notes in his Prologue, “he spent a lifetime challenging baseball’s staid establishment, cultivating enemies the way others cultivate friends.” Simply put, the other owners resented his showman’s approach to running his clubs, and it got very personal.So when it came time for Veeck to record his life (or at least the first five decades, he lived until 1986), he exacted his revenge, taking his side of his skirmishes with Frick, Yankees general manager George Weiss, Yankees co-owner Del Webb—honestly, just about every significant figure in baseball—public.Veeck’s career, of course, was about much more than political infighting.

The best baseball biography I have read, with a first person voice akin to Saul Bellow's =Henderson the Rain King=. Grand and playful and a fascinating look at the now lost world of maverick do-it-yourselfer as major sports team owner. The carnival quality of some of Veeck's stunts reminds us that sports should be fun.
The best baseball book ever. End of story. Forget the nostalgic, sugary and superstitious story of baseball. Here's the real history of the forties and fifties, told by one of the game's true heroes.
But I don't love his book.
Veeck is telling his story to settle up some old scores, more than he is to teach me things that I would enjoy learning.
That's business biography in our era (which started in the 60s when Veeck penned this book).Still, his unique role in baseball's American League during the 40s, 50s, 60s and 70s make a pretty good story.
So, I can't tell you not to read it.
But I can tell you this could have been a much better book with a little more factual narrative and a little less self-justification.
I'm stealing this line from my mother, but I feel like I just listened to Bill Veeck tell me stories at a bar for an evening.
(This is likely colored by his many accounts of enjoying nightlife.)I was born 25 years after the most recent events in the book, so most of the names held little meaning for me, but Veeck's an entertaining enough storyteller that it didn't matter all too much.
We're still having these discussions today, and Veeck was talking about them a half-century ago.
I think you have to be a baseball fan to understand all the deals he was making and to better understand the context of it all but what a fascinating life. A very creative business man and man of the people. I was growing up during the latter part of his life with the White Sox (the book is prior to that era)and was aware of him always being out the stands. Pretty cool to get a better understanding of it all.
This book made me wish I had met Veeck at some point in my life. He's the kind of guy you want to have a beer with, just sit back and listen. Good read for baseball fans. Also, for people who like to tweak sacred cows.
An entertaining autobiography by the man who brought us two of the great American innovations, the exploding scoreboard and a midget ballplayer with a 1.5" strike zone.
I had wanted to catch this one for years, and finally have. Great autobiography of Hall-of-Famer Bill Veeck, who owned multiple major league baseball teams between 1946 and 1980. Originally published in 1962. The only reason I didn't go 5 stars is because the more-recent afterword is badly written. It's amazing to see that, as much as baseball has changed over the years, there are some things that never change. And if you love baseball history, you'll enjoy this book.
A fascinating peek into the mind of a true baseball man.
From there he went on to own the Milwaukee Brewers (the just a minor league baseball team), the Clevelend Indians, the infamous St. Louise Browns, and the Chicago White Sox on two separate occasions.
In every place that he controlled a baseball team minus St. Louis, I think it is safe to say Veeck was successful.
Veeck spends time in the book talking about many of the characters in the game like Hal Peck, Satchel Paige, Larry Doby, Casey Stengal, Rogers Hornsby, Ford Frick, the Griffiths of Washington, the O'Malleys of Brooklyn/Los Angeles, and Tom Yawkey of Boston.
What I liked about Veeck's approach was that he wanted the fans to "experience" a baseball game.
Phil Wrigley “made the park itself his best promotion”.* that Veeck was 3 when his Dad took over the club, worked every part of the stadium even as a young boy,  and as his Dad died when he was 15-16, so Phil Wrigley took over about the same time.* as early as 1934 Veeck tried to get Wrigley to put lights into the stadium.
Wrigley called it a ‘fad, a passing fancy.’ One year later the other clubs started putting lights in...and as we know, the Cubs still did not have lights when this book was first written in 1972.* the idea for the ivy-covered bleachers came from Perry Stadium in Indianapolis.* Wrigley did not believe in the farm system as it stood.
I doubt a guy like Veeck would even be able to get his name on the agenda of an owner's meeting today, much less be allowed to buy into the league.Veeck's personal philosophy seemed to be something along the lines of "let's have as much fun as possible, and if we happen to make some money along the way, so much the better." Today, the bottom line is king.
Veeck understood that without the fans, there's no such thing as major league baseball.
Baseball would be better off if more owners took Veeck's approach to things.
Forget that the White Sox were a pretty good team when he purchased them.
It was also a time when apparently you can go to lunch and wind up buying a baseball team because people were always "getting deals done." Also, if Satchell Paige was so effective, why was he used sparingly out of the bullpen?
He also goes into detail of owners meetings including the debacle of when Veeck was unable to procure the votes needed to move the Browns to Baltimore and subsequently spent six years out of the league.
Veeck does criticize Rickey for not paying Jackie Robinson's team for his services.
Simply put, Bill Veeck was one of my all-time favorite Americans, a man who started with something and recurrently risked it all in the interest of giving people a good show.
His father, William Veeck, was a Chicago journalist who was hired by William Wrigley to run the Chicago Cubs.
Finley ran the A's into the ground, while Veeck set attendance records wherever he took his operations.
Veeck, writing in 1962, did have a blindspot regarding the telecast of home games, and how televising one's home games could actually help promote attendance; aside from that, he was very much on top of things.
(I was sad to learn that Veeck was gone from Chicago before my personal all time favorite event, Disco Demolition Night, took place, but I'm sure he would have loved it) In an age where "big" and "loud" (and "fan-friendly") were not words used in connection with baseball, and a Game Day Ops Manager would have been undreamed of, Veeck thought of them all.
But for anyone interested in the evolution of baseball to where it is today, this book is a must read.
The book starts to lose steam about halfway, when it gets more into the back-room politics of who got what franchise and why, although it was undoubtedly a powderkeg when it was published and the people Veeck trashes were alive (or their children even ...
It comes across in the sort of inelegant, blustery prose one connects more with old, rich drunks than authors.Veeck was a showman, con artist, life of the party (the story where several people took a tray of martinis to put a friend on a train in NYC then chartered a plane and met the friend in Cleveland with fresh martinis -- on the same tray -- is a classic), baseball man and all-around huckster.
His promotions and gimmicks bedeviled and enraged his fellow owners and the purists within the mort bound baseball establishment while they delighted the fans who Bill had a knack for attracting anywhere he went.In this fascinating, fun, romp of an autobiography, Veeck showed that his knack for telling stories was as well honed as his knack for whacky promotions.
Whether writing about sending a midget to pinch hit in a ball game, planting the ivy in Wrigley Field as a young man, creating the first exploding scoreboard, creatively financing and finagling ownership deals, or feuding with fellow owners, Veeck's stories are hits, every one.If you love baseball, mavericks, or showmen, you can't go wrong with this one - highly recommended.
I felt like I was sitting down to have dinner with the man, and he was engaging me with stories of his career and imparting his wisdom.About half way through (right about the time the baseball establishment got sick of his antics and/or jealous of his success) the book turns into rant after rant about the various American League owners and officials that vexed him in his time with the Browns and out of baseball.
The most interesting arc this book manages to portray is the outside perspective of Veeck with the inner workings of his conscious mind.
Self-proclaimed enemies intertwine with his closest of friends, he runs successful operations while he fails at others, and he is prophetic yet unable to win the trust of any other owner.
However, his gratitude to ballplayers, willingness to mingle with fans, tireless work ethic, and loyalty to those in his past should be commended.
Was the book great?
Way too much owner financial jargon and not enough personal stories of legendary ballplayers deem it average in my mind.
I was amazed at how a book written 52 years ago is full of great ideas and common sense logic that is still in short supply by owners today.
You cannot refute this, either, because reading his autobiography with fifty two years of hindsight and history vindicates the man and his ideas.
I was amazed at how backwards team owners were compared to today, because you learn that the traits that make a bad team owner have been universal constants, and that few, if any, ever question them.
It's a funny, insightful, and revealing autobiography of probably the most unique baseball franchise owner in history, Bill Veeck.
The reader gets to understand the hows and whys of Eddie Gaedel's at bat, the innovations and gimmicks that Veeck plotted (and instituted) to modernize the game and increase attendance, and other unique aspects of financing and owning a ball club in the 1940s and 1950s.
He indeed was unique, and stands above and beyond others of his ilk as creative, passionate about the sport, and most of all, a fan's type of owner.
This was Erica's choice for Book Forcening.Some of the things Veeck did as a ball club owner are things familiar to anyone who attends games today.
But some of the things he got up to (particularly surrounding the business side of the game) I cannot even imagine happening nowadays.
Veeck definitely blazed his own trail, and he seems like the kind of guy who would be fun to gab a drink with.I'm not very knowledgeable on MLB history, so it's kind of fun to read about times when teams either didn't exist or where known by different names in different cities, and mull over what's changed (and hello, O'Malleys, what hasn't).
I feel like, were I 20 years older and read this when it first came out in the early 80s, I would've found it amazing.
Instead, not so much.
Kinda' want to give it 2.5 stars, but it's not an option.At times the book gets lost in bookkeeping, but the stories about the period of his life in Milwaukee and Cleveland were great.Still, for anybody interested in Veeck and/or baseball history of the 40s through 70s, it's an important book to read.
Those are probably the exact portions of baseball history that I happen to be least interested in.
A book about Veeck's life as a baseball owner, and from the midget batters to the fireworks shows and giveaways, there certainly has no lack of amusing and colorful anecdotes. I never understood how the baseball speech in Field of Dreams correlated to the comparatively sterile, corporate form of baseball today, but Veecks freewheeling style of running a baseball team harkens back to that era.
I wondered why my rating was so much lower than the average for this book. It is fascinating...for baseball fans (and I am a baseball fan). Of little interest to others, and Veeck does not try to make it so because he wanders occasionally and includes details that don't add much to his story. For a narrative from 1962, however, Veeck does not pull any punches, and the book must have caused a stir in its day.
One of the funniest books a baseball fan could ever want. First read it in the '60s when Veeck was still active and re-read in 1976. He was responsible for many fan-friendly enhancements to sporting events, including fireworks when the home teams hit a home run or won a game.Lots of serious material, too, about how Veeck overcame financial difficulties to become an owner and about his battles with stick-in-the-mud old-time owners. But still humorous throughout.
Entertaining and rambling autobiography of one of the most interesting team owners in baseball history. Veeck was a guy who had a million war stories to tell, and he tells them in full yarn-spinning style, with all the strengths (funny, insightful, spontaneous) and weaknesses (disorganized, sometimes overextended) thereof. Great for baseball history fans or people interested in the politicking behind a professional sports league.
This book is almost 50 years old (written in 1962). A very entertaining book written by a guy who preferred to do things his own way, and was definitely not afraid to rock the boat. In fact, he often insisted in rocking the boat because it needed to be rocked.I think you don't even have to be a baseball fan to enjoy Bill Veeck's story. This is the second time I've read this book. He had a different way of looking at things, and one can argue it was often a better way.
