https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129617.Perfect

After reading Paradise and all of the reviews here I was sure I was about to read a story of epic proportions:A prison escape?A tortured, cold, brooding hero?A smart and strong heroine?The enemies-to-lovers trope?"I'm falling for my captor" theme?A slow burn romance?Except the proportions were not so epic…I can’t say I didn’t enjoy it because I did.
I don’t know why, but I feel like this author’s descriptive style just doesn’t work for me.
I’m sure I would have loved it more had I read it when it was first published.
My re-read was just as PERFECT the second time around. “She wept with shame for her lack of will and with fear for a love she couldn't control.” I loved this one. It’s an oldie but stands the test of time. Rugged, charming, alpha hero.Sweet, hometown, innocent heroine. What’s not to like? Long ago and far away I dreamed a dream one dayAnd now that dream is here beside meLong the skies were overcastBut now the clouds have passedYou're here at lastChills run up and down my spineAladdin's lamp is m
My re-read was just as PERFECT the second time around.
“She wept with shame for her lack of will and with fear for a love she couldn't control.”
I loved this one.
It’s an oldie but stands the test of time.
For the first time in his life, he finally knew how it felt to have a home and a family.
Julie was his home, his family
It had drama, romance, laughter, tears, family, friendship, misunderstandings, make-ups … everything I love in a good book.Loved catching up with the characters from the previous book, Matt and Meredith.
He’s sitting in jail in Texas five years later ready to execute his escape plan.Julie was born on the streets of Chicago and abandoned.
Because of her life as a small child, she had a lot of health problems that kept her out of school.
She starts to doubt that this man is capable of murdering his wife.
Zach has never felt love from anyone before, and he has such a hard time accepting it; especially from someone as pure as Julie.
When he finally admits he loves her in a letter, it is SO good!
Initially Julie is frightened and desperate to be released from captivity but with every minute spent in the presence of Zack, she soon realises he is no murderer and her treacherous heart falls in love with him even though doing so will only guarantee her a lifetime of heartbreak, pain and longing.
When Zack and Julie are reunited the book takes on the same playful tone it did during their happy moments in Colorado but this time Judith McNaught lets readers enjoy the laughter and joyfulness without heartbreak around the corner.
All this D-rama of secondary character stories, lusting, murder, and life living is told through an early '90s romance view point.
I ended up not liking the hero because of his overly aggressive, I know you love me/want me so I'm going to sexually man handle you until your body forces you to admit it, a heroine who could be read Mary Sue-ish with some innocent, too sweet to be real, 26yr old virgin, wishy washy, and "Perfect", a puritanical vibe, and a overhanging view that good wives are cooking and doing laundry.
I despise injustice.So, let me start getting the negative out of my way first: grandma Stanhope.My only issue in the story is that I was left holding a grudge against her.She didn't deserve forgiveness so easily.What an evil witch!When that predictable "making peace" scene happened I had to roll my eyes, only to soon be taken by surprise with another tearful moment.
Two lives destined to collide by fate when Zack decided to escape from prison after 5 years behind the bars.Julie was the unfortunate person who crossed his path when Zack needed a car to get away.
Those last pages summed up the book wonderfully and felt like a beautiful extended epilogueThere was some laugh out loud moments and plenty of dialogue which broke up the narrative and made it easy to connect to the characters.
It's not imperative, but Mathew and Meredith's story is just as compelling as Zach and Julie's, and when they show up in this read you'll understand who they are.My only complaint is that two secondary character's fates felt unresolved.
Still a 5 star read for me and I look forward to reading more of Judith McNaught's books, she is an exceptional author!
I'm not a giant fan of contemporary romance, but I've always had a soft spot for Judith McNaught's books.
Mainly because she was the first romance author I ever read!
I'm not entirely sure why, but I always find her stories engaging and enjoyable.
It is however the first time I've read it in many years.
The story is interesting enough.
Zac Benedict, former movie star and Hollywood golden boy, has spent the last 5 years in prison for the murder of his wife.
I liked both Julie and Zac. They were different characters, but I liked them as a pair and enjoyed their story.
And, really that’s where my positivity sinks into the ground like the pulverized book in a solid rainstorm.
And I thought, “Well, what is this fresh hell?” And the book Perfect answered me back with a resounding, “Just the beginning, Sam.”Characters always have questionable choices, kind of like regular people.
And just in case you want to read this, I won’t go into the complete nonsense of this book.
The dialogue made me want to scream, just like the rest of the book.
There’s also an incredible amount of rehash and replays in this book, so it rounds out at something like 700 pages.
I bought this book and have no intention of even looking it's way again.I think that McNaught's historical romances are set up a bit better than this book though we still have the trope of heroine does something and hero takes it badly without listening that appears twice in this one.
I can't with Julie having sex with a convicted criminal and not even thinking about STDs. AIDS was a thing back in 1993 and my first thought would be men being raped in jail or raping others and ugh this is why sometimes I have to yell at myself to just read and not get all actually about books, but it's hard.
Loved Zach. Hated Julie the betraying, preachy cow and was massively disappointed that she did not die by a toilet seat to the head. She was utterly useless and I hated her with a passion. But the writing was good and the story fun. Except for Julie.
The title says it all: PERFECT!!!I loved everything in this book: Julie, Zach, the story, the simplicity of the words used to tell it, the way it was written, the witty dialogue, the secondary characters, tehir stories, the immense love Julie and Zach had for each other...
It just touches something in me and I simply melt!Every part of this book is so interesting that I don't know where to start!The part of Zach's life before meeting Julie with the descriptions of the movie world; the part of Julie's life when she's an illiterate and orphaned street urchin; the part of Julie's strife to help the less fortunate being them illiterate women or handicapped children; the kidnapping part, the falling in love part; Zach's usless fight to do the right thing for Julie; Julie's defence of Zach's innocence; the friendship between Zach and Matt...
This was fantastic and wonderful and, poignant, moving, touching, affecting, powerful, stirring, emotive, heart-rending, heartwarming, impassioned, etc....I think you get the picture.I love this book and it deserves a ten star rating that's what this book deserves!!!I'll never get tired of reading Zack and Julie's story. Absolute Perfection!!!
It's "Prison Break" meets "Pretty Women" (minus one fabulous hooker) meets "Cinderella"...THE BEST book I've read since "When He Was Wicked" (by Julia Quinn). And I just loved how McNaught wove a piece of "Paradise" in with it. It was nice to catch up with Matt and Meredith (and their little girl)! So ladies this is a MUST read...I've never steered you wrong before, and I'm not gonna start now!
Five perfect Stars.It was a very good read.
Julie - a School Teacher and Zack - a film Actor and Director Two very different people came together and create a beautiful story.
The chemistry between Julie and Zack was just Amazing.I liked every turn of the story.
Some people will say that the author was dragging the story or there was no need to explain Julie and Zack past life ...
But without explaining their past life we couldn’t have felt the depth of the characters and the story.
And that simple but perfect poem, Oh !!!!!
Loved this book. :)
Hay libros a los que siempre vuelvo, y este es uno de ellos.Amo muchísimo esta historia y a Zach ♥
4.5 stars Reread First of all: this is a CR set in 1993, so there wasn't any trace of Computers, Cell Phones or Internet in the story. It felt really natural to read it without those influences, and the same story set in 2015 wouldn't have worked the same way, with the same suspense level and the same sense of adventure. After enjoying it immensely the first time reading it (with my favourite BR ladies), I got the sudden urge to do so again, just because I knew what I could expect. Sounding lik
It felt really natural to read it without those influences, and the same story set in 2015 wouldn't have worked the same way, with the same suspense level and the same sense of adventure.
It's about Zack and Julie, two people who could not be more different in every sense of the word, yet develop deep, deep feelings for each other.
Boring isn't a word that applies to this story at all.
The part where Zack, escaping from prison after being judged guilty of murdering his wife, kind of spontaneously kidnaps Julie?
No one writes relationships better than McNaught!
With each new book, she takes situations, responses and the emotions behind them and makes them absolutely real and intrinsic to the reader.
Her gift is in understanding exactly how a person would respond to a given circumstance, then drawing out the perfect emotion one would feel in that situation.
Amazing!"Perfect", however unrealistic the plot line may be, had me so involved with the characters that I found myself dripping tears in numerous parts - something I RARELY do even once!
It is because of the improbable storyline that I realized just how great McNaught's writing really is.
Five PERFECT stars!!! "What book are you reading?" "It's my book—an early copy, fresh off the press."He smiled and said it aloud: "You named it Perfect."
The title says it.Loved it.
And full of empty drama.I vowed to stop reading anything McNaught after reading Kingdom of Dreams because I had a problem with the plot/character development: in my opinion, I think the hero was really unjustly mistreated by said author and the heroine bimbo was seriously favoured, despite her annoying tantrum and ridiculous decisions.
(hide spoiler)]I think McNaught didn't delve into the issue of guilt and mistrust as deeply as I would have liked, as if Julie's sins were part of the everyday of couples (God I hope not, or else I'd rather stay single forever).
Long ago and far away,I dreamed a dream one day—And now that dream is here before me.Long the skies were overcast,but now the clouds are passed—You're here at last.Chills run up and down my spine.Aladdin's lamp is mine.The dream I dreamed was not denied me.Just one look and then I knew—That all I longed for long ago was you.  What an absolutely brilliant book!!!!! It was a masterpiece of captivating plot and sizzling romance.  I loved that the story spanned over years, that we got to see an 11
I loved that the story spanned over years, that we got to see an 11 year old Julie, who had been through so much, who was such a sweet and lonely little girl, and an 18 year old Zach and his horrible family who forced him to face his future alone.
And the bond that forms between captor and captive brings a love that both have yearned for, but also a complication that neither wanted, because Zach is a fugitive and the only future he can give Julie in one on the run.
I can’t wait to read more of her books, and to be blown away by her stories.
So this was my first Judith McNaught novel and I loved every page of it....it was like indulging my sweet tooth with the very best chocolate souffle I've ever eaten - LOL.
The storyline is completely unreal and over the top and it's certainly not the best book I've ever read, but I willingly admit it tops my list of self indulgent romance/drama/mystery novels.
I found Judith's style of writing in this novel completely engaging, filled with humor, plenty of juicy unexpected twists, and yes, at times, the main female character's "wholesomeness" made me want to gag....but I loved the storyline and each character in spite of that.
McNaught beautifully introduces readers to both the hero and heroine and their difficult heartbreaking pasts, their family background and how they come to be where they are in life before running into each other.
I really enjoyed both characters' back stories, seeing Zack in the Hollywood lifestyle going through the ropes of filming a movie was very impressively handled.
I loved her big heart and innocence but there were moments when she tested by patience.
I adored seeing Julie melt his heart and charm him.
Yes it's a totally sappy gushy love story but it has it's dark moments and is filled with angst, suspense and drama.
Definitely my all-time favorite book and I have literally read hundreds.
I was pushed into reading it many years ago by my sister.
I didn't want to read another "cheesy love story".
Julie's innocence, and the way it is explained in the book, makes her the perfect leading lady.
There are a few scenes in the book that come across as being silly, but the rest of the story more than makes up for it.
I have read it several times over the years and still enjoy it as much as I did the first time.
I loved this book! Suspense, intrigue, romance and a little humor - this book was PERFECT! I loved the heroine in this story. From the moment you meet her in this book, you can't help but fall totally in love with her. The romance in this book was unique given the circumstances but it was fantastic. This is the first book I've ever read by this author but I can't wait to read more.
It's a pet peeve of mine when a hero calls the heroine "little one" in a novel. Especially during a love scene. When he chucks her under the chin with his finger and smiles down at her, it's just too damn patronizing for me.
Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
