https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334214.Mohammed_and_Charlemagne
Instead of placing the pivotal historical moment that splits the ancient and medieval worlds at the barbarian invasions, Pirenne pushes it forward to the spread of Islam in the seventh century.
The Roman world was centered on the Mediterranean, its easily traversable waters connecting the empires disparate parts through trade, administration, and shared cultural foundations.
Trade routes continued, tax systems survived, and Gothic kings styled themselves as Byzantine emperors in miniature.The big change, according to Pirenne, came with the rapid spread of Islam around the Mediterranean basin.
Pirenne argues that the 'dark ages' weren't truly dark until the advent of Islam and its conquests in Africa and Spain shut down the trade and communication network that the Mediterranean had continued to provide to Western Europe even after the fall of Rome in 476 CE.
The Merovingians were rich in gold, and administered their kingdom along Roman secular lines employing landed, literate 'senatores' most often of Roman descent; after the Arab conquests, kings such as Charlemagne were reduced to issuing silver coinage for lack of gold, and administering their empire through the Church, where the last remaining literate candidates could be found.
This jewel was found at Ohio Books and read while a contractor lowered our bathroom ceiling and installed an exhaust fan. I feel enriched by the opportunity.His thesis elicited an outcry at the time of its publication: the Middle Ages did not begin with collapse of Rome in the 5th Century but rather in the 8th after Arab control of the Mediterranean threw the West into stasis and decline. Pirenne argues that the barbarian invasions did not disrupt Roman institutions but were simply co-opted by the needy n'er-do-wells.
It's an appealing idea in its neatness, and in its emphasis on the dependence between Western Europe and the areas around it, and the prose is astonishingly well-written for a first draft (Pirenne died before the book was finished, and it was ultimately published by his son).
The archaeological evidence doesn't really accord with Pirenne's statements about it (and far more contradictory evidence has been found since he wrote), he's got some weird ideas about Islam (Muslims did trade with Christians and with other People of the Book without major issue for most of the medieval period, so far as I'm aware), and there's an anti-Semitic undercurrent to a lot of what he says about Jewish merchants.
Pubblicato nel 1937, due anni dopo la morte di Pirenne, il libro propone la tesi di una fine del mondo tardo antico posticipata di almeno duecento anni, e dovuta all'invasione araba e alla diffusione dell'Islam.
Le invasioni barbariche invece non modificarono sostanzialmente la civiltà romana affacciata sul Mediterraneo, mantenuta viva dagli scambi commerciale e dalla circolazione aurea; gli stati romano-barbarici funzionavano grazie alle imposte percepite allo stesso modo dell'amministrazione imperiale; lo stato (pur riconoscendo l'autorità dell'imperatore di Bisanzio) era assoluto e laico, dotato di un'amministrazione dipendente solo dal monarca e stipendiata, etc.
Medieval history generally bores me to tears, but I found this a very stimulating read, despite the fact that poor old Pirenne was never able to refine his work -- he died shortly after completing the first draft. But the book is clear, to the point, easy to read, and a valuable contribution to our understanding of the decline of the Roman Empire and the beginning of the Middle Ages.
.
Pirenne arguye que es la fundación y expansión del islam lo que le da la oportunidad al imperio de Carlomagno a establecerse.
Utilizando una gran variedad de fuentes literarias, Pirenne traza la evolución de los territorios del difunto imperio romano y muestra como el cambio cultural no es tan radical como se ha presentado.
Igualmente, él muestra cómo, después de que el islam conquista el mediterráneo occidental, la cultura de Europa comienza a desviarse del patrón romano y a crear las instituciones y tradiciones asociadas con el medioevo.
El libro esta argüido fantásticamente y, aunque el detalle de las evidencias es a veces un poco excesivo, definitivamente vale la pena leerlo.
Her ne kadar, Akdeniz'in İslam egemenliğine girmesiyle, Batı Akdeniz'deki ticaretin sona erdiği tezi artık çürütülmüş olsa da, dönemi anlamak için çok güzel bir eser olmuş. Yazar özellikle Germen istilalarının Roma'ya ve Avrupa'ya etkisini ve İslam'ın Avrupa'daki yayılışını çok güzel anlatmış. Kitaptaki büyük eksik ise, yayınevinin, Türk yayınevlerinin ekseriyetinde olduğu gibi, kitaba anlatılan coğrafyanın anlaşılması için bir harita koymaması. Neden bundan imtina ederler anlayabilmiş değilim.
Read for my freshman Western Civilization course in college, this book was written by a distinguished French historian in the 1930's. Its thesis is basically that the Muslim conquest of the Middle East and North Africa, by disrupting the cultural and economic unity of the Mediterranean world, was the decisive break between Antiquity and the Middle Ages. Western Europe was cut off and had to work with what it had left to develop its own civilization, which emerged thereafter.
An important work for understanding the development of medieval studies. Interesting challenges to Gibbon's theses about the fall of Rome including a wealth of evidence for the actual date of the "fall" of Roman institutions and culture in the West.
La fin de l'empire romain ne date pas de l'invasion des barbares mais de la conquête de la méditerranée par les arabes.
Continuity was preserved, not just in Byzantium but in Africa, Italy, Languedoc and Iberia.
The Germans wanted the status of Roman citizenship, once they had tasted it.So why, then, did the Western Empire nevertheless collapse and Europe sink into a Dark Age?
Pirenne's answer is that the astonishing, explosive expansion of Islam a mere few years after the death of Muhammad turned Europe on its head and the Western Mediterranean into a corsairs' boating lake.
What the German and Turkic barbarians did not achieve by way of fragmenting the Empire Islam achieved in a moment.
Com o fechamento do Mediterrâneo, o Ocidente é agora germano: o latim entra em decadência, a classe letrada deixa de ser a elite e passa a ser a dos clérigos, e o Estado deixa de ser laico, como era o romano e seus sucessores merovíngeos.
Se quisermos pensar, com o Kenneth Harl, em "Roma e os Bárbaros", Clóvis seria aceitável ainda, mas Carlos Magno já não, seria um bárbaro completo, algo muito mais estranho a Roma do que eram os invasores (ou migrantes?) que levaram à fragmentação do império no século 5.
I am not a historian, just a regular guy with an interest in Antiquity, but Pirenne's carefully constructed thesis, that the rise of Islam, rather than barbarian invasions, stifled the Western Roman Empire, kept me reading despite my academic shortcomings.
Pirenne's conclusions contrast the more mainstream view, such as Peter Heather's The Fall of the Roman Empire, which places the blame squarely on the pressure of Attila the Hun's raids on the Germanic tribes inhabiting the margins of the Empire.I struggled to keep track of the unfamiliar names of people and places, and routinely ran the Greek and Latin quotations through Google Translate just to have some bearing on the historical and literary background he most certainly expected his audience to possess.
Inicially, it mostly concentrates on political and military history except approximately last seventy pages which include economical and social topics.
I can suggest to read other medieval books of Pirenne which are "Economic and Social History of Medieval Europe" and "Medieval Cities: Their Origins and the Revival of Trade" From my point of view, correlating a relation between Muhammed and Charlemagne is as elegant determination as using it as title.
Furthermore, he is one of the most eminent historians to understand a little bit late antiquity, early middle ages, the seperation of Merovingian dynasty and Carolingian Empire; also the importance of the trade system of "Mare Nostrum" as a part of not only makeing state but also making culture.
Fairly brief and an important book in the historiography of the early Middle Ages. Pirenne argues that the essentials of politics, commerce, and religion that existed in the late Roman Empire persisted until the spread of Islam disrupted the critical commercial networks of the western Mediterranean in the 7th and early 8th centuries. A reasonable familiarity with the broad strokes of the 6th-9th centuries is probably required; I would have been lost without having read Goldsworthy and Heather a few months earlier.
Scholars are still trying to punch holes in Henri's classic thesis. Some have been successful, some not so much, but what we must agree on, is that in order to develop a more accurate picture of the economies of the early middle ages, we must first deal with the persuasive arguments put forward by Mr. Pirenne. If you are interested in the Middle Ages at all, you HAVE to read this book, and all of his works.
The Gothic/Germanic invasions of the C5th did not spell the demise of the western Roman empire; previous political, economic and cultural patterns prevailed, though in a degraded form. The demise of the western empire came about as a result of the rapid rise of Islam. Without Mohammed there would have been no Charlemagne, no middle-ages. This is a fascinating read - a bold claim rigorously argued. Excellent.
قرأت الكتاب بحثا عن أمرين رئيسين: ١- حال الروم قبل و أثناء بعثة النبي صلى الله عليه و سلم.. لكن الكتاب أسهب كثيرا في قبل البعثة و بعد البعثة، و تناول بشكل مختصرجدا حال الروم أثناء البعثة..٢- أثر الإسلام على الروم.. و هذا الموضوع تم تناوله بشكل رائع..مؤلف الكتاب بلجيكي مستشرق لكن معتدل إلى حد كبير..
A classic. Stirred a lot of dust in the historiographic community wehen it was published (1930's). Still, the 'Pirenne hypthesis' about the influence of the muslim expansion on the decline of Late Roman civilisation and the move to the North of 'European' civilisation is being discussed. It can't be discarded out of hand.
THe first historian to look at the emergence of the Carolingians as a fucntion of economics and the spread of Islam, as opposed to only in terms of local European military and political factors. Some odd misconceptions, though, such as the statement that Jews were 1/3 of Narbonne, but were also "all bankers, since they were waelthy".???
Pirenne's posthumous work where he advances the thesis that Medieval Europe was made possible by the rise of Islam, which severed many of the East-West ties that kept the West under the influence of Byzantium.
Es una colección de datos, sin el mas mínimo análisis. Pensé que se trataba de otro tipo de libro.Sin embargo, puede servir para consulta, eventualmente
Henri Pirenne nije baš najotvoreniji povjesničar slobodnog uma.
EXCLENTE OBRA. CONCEPTOS E INFORMACION CLAROS SIN ATASCARSE DE FECHAS Y DATOS
Pirenne's MOHAMMED And CHARLEMAGNE is a classic, as relevant today as when it was first published in 1937.
An intellectually thrilling read.
I had to read this for a history class and sorry, I thought it was super boring.
