https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1260721.Marianne_Dreams
Great children's classic, with vivid and memorable characters, a dark yet beautiful dream world and the power of imagination. I can remember how much I loved it as a kid, and I recall watching a pretty good film adaptation of it called Paperhouse, as well. This classic, reminiscent of stories like Skelig and Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, is timeless and magical and unlike any other.
The latest in my season of re-readings of classic children's books.
The characters are marvellous; well-drawn and quite without sentimentality: I especially love the fact that illness makes them both so cranky and unpleasant - it reads as a deliberate challenge to the "saintly invalid" trope that permeates so many children's books (Little Women, Pollyanna, etc.
The Freudian undercurrents are much stronger and more apparent now than when I was a child, and all the more satisfying for that: this is the kind of book that grows with you, rather than staying in the realm of childhood.
I would have been the same if I read the book as her age; and I would have been as disturbed as she and Mark were by the watchers.The eyes that Marianne drew onto the boulders when she was angry with Mark had turned them into sinister, sentient beings that she knew would harm the two children if they tried to leave the house.
The house that Marianne imagines (dreams about) and draws with her special drawing pencil has a boy in the window (who actually also turns out to be a real boy named Mark who has had polio and is thus housebound and cannot or perhaps will not come out, cannot or will not leave his home, which is probably why at first Marianne has imagined and drawn her envisioned domicile without doors or stairs).
As it turns out the pencil she has been using is not just an ordinary pencil but the kind that makes her drawings come to life later on at night when she is dreaming.
The story is very atmospheric and quite spooky, the borders between reality and dreams become quite blurry and I have to admit I was tiny bit frightened when I read it late at night in my bed.All in all it was a "jolly good book" to read when it is so "beastly" outside.
I think anyone who dreams or imagines a lot about things they hear about, or just likes to make stuff up, would like Marianne Dreams a lot.
It is up to Marianne to imagine a way out.I recognized that feverish dreamlike feeling that makes things look sinister or magical (or both).
I have to say I LOVE that feeling (there is such a thing as too much of a good thing, though).The closest book to this one I can think of is Charlotte Sometimes by Penelope Farmer.
In fact, I found out about this one because I was on the looksie for another book I would like as much as that one.
I'd never come across this children's novel at all until a friend recently recommended it to me.
That night in her dreams, she visits the house, but can't gain entry as she hasn't drawn anyone inside who is able to let her in.
Awake again, draws a figure in the upstairs window, but in her next dream he still can't let her in because she hasn't drawn any stairs in the house.
Even though this is ostensibly a children's book, I would heartily recommend it to anyone with an interest in tales of the supernatural and unrest.
I read this when I was a kid. It is a MUST read if you like dark fantasy. The book was made into a movie and surprise, surprise... the movie was excellent!
When I read this as an 11-year old, I didn't quite fully grasp how incurable illnesses and death exist in a desperate murky no-man's-land dreamworld. Now I do. Both Marianne and myself got perspective, learnt about the floor-dropping sensation of cause-and-effect and consequences and grew up a little. It's a lovely little book about friendship, sharing and being responsible. I really like the ending because it's so positive.
Where was this book when I was 9 or 10? Man, I would have adored it and read it over and over and over. Marianne is bedridden with what sound like mononucleosis to the modern ear, and she finds herself whiling away the long hours drawing with a magic pencil and visiting her drawings in her dreams. There's a boy with polio involved, and several missteps and a nearly perfect ending. This one was delicious. Thanks, Constance!
It's a haunting tale of a sick little girl who draws an alternate world that she visits in dreams.
It's spooky and magical and much more enjoyable than this book.I recently discovered that the movie was based on this book, so of course I wanted to read it.
The book is described as a children's classic.
It's definitely for children but the writing isn't as inventive and emotional as the summary of the tale might suggest.
This might be a fine read for early readers, however I recommend that adults bypass this book in favor of the film.
I loved this book when i was growing up. The idea that anything you drew could take on a life of its own in your dreams had me wishing so abadly that I could do the same! The film made of this - 'Paperhouse' was really well done and really brought across the dark side to it all. That i can have such a lingering memory of it after all these years is testament to its content.
Marianne is convalescing after an illness when she finds a pencil that she draws a house with. Later when she dreams she visits this house and discovers that what she draws with the pencil in her waking life will appear in her dreams.The watching stones are a fun, scary addition to the story and we enjoyed the coming together of the two childrens lives and their escape. The illustrations are good too.
An unusual book about a girl who is bedridden and starts drawing out of boredom - and the things she draws begin to exist and draw her into their world while she is sleeping.
This is maybe the creepiest children's book I've ever read - the stone watchers are terrifying. 1958 was pretty hardcore, apparently.
Charming and whimsical yet deeply profound. It reminded me of a more kid-friendly version of Mandy and Alecto or Yesterday's Doll.
Now I understand why this book produced such a lasting memory for me when I read it age about 10 .... there is no way my 9 year old will be reading it any time soon!! Scary stuff.
I liked this book, but think it's the kind of children's book that is really much better to read as a child :) I liked that the kids seemed like actual children in their conversation, actions, and thoughts. The story was less fantastical than I was expecting. A good book that I think my children will enjoy.
This book is every bit as sinister as I remember. It has that ambiguity that marks its dread all the more effective. And unlike some older books, it’s story holds up. For once a reread of an old favourite didn’t disappoint
Catherine Storr's Marianne Dreams is another one of those books I didn't know about as a kid, but would have liked it if I had.
And like the C.S. Lewis Narnia books,  Marianne Dreams has little illustrations interspersed throughout, and while they're certainly not fine art, they add to the charm of the book and convey the sense of a child's drawing come to life.
The line drawing of a confused Marianne standing in a vast field of grass, with nothing in sight but an oddly-drawn house surrounded by a low fence and a few rocks, conveys exactly that sense of puzzlement, solitude, and mystery that dreams so often have.
I refused to because I thought I was too young to read a whole entire book.
being the president of the group I was the one who chose the book.
This is the first book I read.
The story was about Marriane who Got an illness, she was bedridden so she couldn't attend school, go outdoors.
Its a kind of story that you couldn't just stop yourself from reading because you wanna know what will happen next.
What was more intriguing was when the story presents the young little boy in her dreams named Mark and how Marriane created and manipulate everything inside their dreams.
Storr is an author is able to use the wealth of her own inner life to take us into our own deep Inner Space.The book starts abruptly.
Marianne, on her birthday, has her first horse-riding lesson and immediately falls ill with a mysterious illness and has to stay in bed.
Staying in bed, the symbol for the womb requires emergence - rebirth.
Marianna has a tutor to help her keep up with her school work.
The tutor has several pupils, among them a seriously ill boy Mark, also bed-ridden, and eventually so ill he is put into an iron lung.
The plot starts suddenly and ends suddenly and it works.
'Marianne Dreams' is a haunting but captivating story about a young girl who is diagnosed with an illness confining her to bed.
I read this book when I was about 11 years old on a plane to France , it made the time pass quickly.
Up until recently , I have never been truly sure whether I enjoyed this book , however it is a story that always remained in my heart and left an impact.
Now , after re-reading I decided I really do like this book.
Additionally , Marianne learns about commitment and selflessness , the author tackles issues such as loneliness and illness , well in this book.
This is one of those books that I read several times as a child.
It takes it's inspiration from the stones at Avebury in Wiltshire (or so my mum and wikipedia both claim!) - and I suppose that's why we had it on our bookshelf, growing up.
Marianne is a frustrated, bed-ridden child with nothing to do other than to consult with her imagination.
The result is a pile of pencil sketches which, as we soon discover, become the scenes and characters that populate her dreams.
I'll read it again, soon, and see whether it still holds a spell over me.
I absolutely loved this book. It is beautifully written and its old style of writing reminded me of books I read as a child. I was instantly hooked and drawn into Marianne's world. The relationship between Marianne and Mark was particularly interesting as their sympathy and understanding of each other and the situation they were facing developed slowly yet increasing eerily throughout. The book made me feel quite uncomfortable at times and definitely left me with many questions but will certainly be a book I return to in future.
I was given this book when I was ten and have been reading it on and off since.
This book is about a girl called Marianne that falls ill on her birthday.
Due to spending alot of time in bed due to her illness she dreams alot.
This book captures all the dreams that we expeirence during a fever and puts them into words.This is a very good read and I would recommend this as a classic must read for a child between the ages of 10-13.
This is a great "first novel" for children as it is an easy read but captivates you with the mysterious story line.
It's been years since I last read Marianne Dreams, with her struggles to draw helicopters and fits of impatience and an oversupply of boiled eggs. I found it recently on my bookshelf (when I was looking for something else), and yet again, it's pulled me in and given me something to think about. I'll probably locate the sequel/s soon.
Incidental music is Dreams by the Cranberries and Dreams by Gabrielle.Listen to the story. Nine y.o.
I still have the puffin edition of this book that I read 100 years ago. The way the line between dreams and reality is blurred fascinated and haunted me. I love this book. I should reread it. I'd like to revisit all the seminal books of my young reading life, and see what my impressions are now.
Absolutely loved this book, it begins light but becomes thrilling and quite scary! A great story with a fine line between reality and fantasy, following a young girl and boy fighting their own illnesses and becoming companions along the way.
