https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/205662.The_Only_Living_Witness
I remember in grade school, one of my best friends' mom and my mom were very close.
Her sister was missing, and I vividly remember the day her mom came by my home, crying, and reciting the story to my mom.
After some time, it came to light that she was a victim of Ted Bundy.
I had a fear of him when the killings were going on in my area, then to find he had killed a friend, escalated the fear until he was caught.
I read this book some years later, and I have to say of all books written on Bundy, this one was the best.
This book was truly the most anyone has gotten out of Ted Bundy out of his own words about his crimes.
The author and his fellow investigator in 1980 (one year before I was even born) was trying to get Bundy to talk about his victims.
Then the author and his investigator about to stop the project realized they were frustrated because Ted Bundy was acting like a 12 year old boy stuck in a grown man's body.
After Bundy stopped talking they took their recordings to forensic psychiatrists asking what he thought and if their impressions were accurate--that somehow Ted Bundy stopped maturing at about 12 years old or so.
This, and Bundy's assertion (amongst others) that "there are a lot of people who are not in prison, a lot of people who are not in prison, who were far more successful than I" went a long way towards giving me a serious case of the wiggins.Essential reading for true crime junkies - but make sure you have someone to stay with you for a while afterwards!
"آن" به خاطر آشنایی نسبتا مختصری که با" باندی" داشت و شغل خبرنگاری، اولین و معروف ترین کتاب رو در این باره نوشته، ولی زمانی که می خوندمش حس می کردم با اینکه سعی کرده همه چیز رو توضیح بده ولی انگار خودش هنوز درگیر طلسم باندیه.
برای من که در این کتاب ها دنبال روند تغییر و تاثیرات جامعه و دلایل این اتفاق ها هستم توضیحات عالی ای داشتدرسته که این افراد از درون تفاوت هایی با بقیه دارند ولی اینطور نیست که یک روز بیدار بشن و تبدیل به موجوداتی بشن که در آخر هستن.
A chilling, well-written and surprisingly unsensationalized account of Ted Bundy's murders and police efforts to find him. The authors do not dwell on the tabloid aspects of his crimes, but spend time examining Bundy's psychological make up and speculating on whether he was just lucky, or whether he was in actuality an almost-flawless killing machine. They made the point that the police never caught Bundy until he allowed himself to be caught, which was interesting.
This was the first Ted Bundy book I read out of 3 so far and I think it's my favorite one. It's detailed but not graphic about his crimes and the authors have a good cop/bad cop thing going which is cool. This book really allows you to get into the mind of a infamous serial killer.
It's bizarre to admit, but while reading this book it's as if I felt close to Ted. I can almost feel sympathy for him.
He knew he was evil, but maybe deep down he had a dab of good in him.
The evidence is right there!" Ted was a true puzzle.
Reading a good book, drinking coffee and petting my dog are my pleasures; murdering were his.
I'm clarifying that.All in all, I believe Michaud did an excellent job on writing this book.
I wonder how many books have been written about serial killer, Ted Bundy?.....I was lucky enough to choose this one as it contains interviews with Bundy which are very revealing about his persona.
But then became quite miffed when Gary Ridgeway, the Green River Killer's victim count exceeded his (even thought he declared he didn't kill anyone).
He actually spoke with investigators regarding the Green River killings as an "expert".
He was a twisted, evil man who was lucky to escape justice as long as he did.
This book is really interesting.
It was very intense at times and it was heartbreaking to hear about the way ted murdered these women and it was especially sad to hear how he murdered a 12 year old little girl.
On the other hand it was fascinating to read things from Ted's point of view.
One thing I will say is that i found the title of this book a bit misleading.
The title makes it sound as though the book will be written about one of the people who survived an attack by Ted, but it is actually more about Ted than anyone else.
So this brilliant, kind girl was snatched away, subjected to incomprehensible torture, murdered, and then dumped in a special spot s Ted could come back and rape her corpse, but the best descriptor the author can think of to describe her and girls like her is "prude."That said if you are fascinated by Bundy then you can't miss out on this book.
Intelligent, eloquent, witty and handsome, he seemed like anything but a predator.The most interesting thing about this book was that it revealed Bundy to be much more of an “ordinary” serial killer than he appeared to be.
The style doesn’t suffer the usual reporter-turned-author shortcomings and while it is adequately descriptive it is not gratuitously graphic.
Another thing that kept me interested more than most books like this was varied format—Michaud and Aynesworth rely on research, court testimony and interviews with Bundy himself to draw a complete picture of a man who was just as flawed as any other psychopath.
Sure, you could hew to the truly trashy low road, like any number of authors did in recounting the strange case of Ted Bundy, but the quality of most of those books seems plodding at best.
You could shoot also for the high road, the "literary" true crime story, but in many respects, this is even more aggrieving; "The Executioner's Song," while good, is 1,000 pages long, and unnecessarily so, "In Cold Blood" seems mostly like the fabrication of a big city grifter, and the recent and much beloved "Serial" podcast is a formless, lifeless shaggy dog whose doleful subject is probably completely guilty as charged.
the problem with this book is that hearing ted's own words creates this sense that i am learning, which seems deeply unfair to his victims.
i don't want to say i'm enlightened to what he was - but i will admit that the work stephen michaud accomplished with this book was a grasp on the boggling concept of how one person could exist and thrive on murder.
michaud seems to share my feelings as a reader.
i think that's why it is unfair for people to say that books such as these and SBM can't share space in the canon as accurate portrayals.
To me this book is perfect True Crime, from the pacing and the way it's structured, to the insane way they trick Bundy into talking about the murders. A great look at just such a fucked up and insane story…"Just one of those people who cast weird vibes at you. He usually wanted to tell us how great he was. He wanted people to acknowledge that he was a great person. Apparently no one ever had."
Read this right after The Last Victim, and decided I needed a break from true crime... When Ted Bundy starts to come off as a quotidian character you know you've reached criminology saturation...
Very creepy read... Reminds me of some of the prison inmates where I used to work...
This is One of My all-time favorite true-crime books .
The author and his fellow the investigator in 1980 were trying to get Bundy to talk about his victims.
Then the author and the investigator were about to stop the project realized they were frustrated because" Bundy " was acting like a child stuck in a grown man's body.
And through this "game" just like a child he really believed no one would think HE had done these things even though he had details of the crimes he spoke that no one else could possible have!!
This is a frightening book about the crimes of serial killer Ted Bundy.
What sets this apart from other books on the subject is that Bundy himself was interviewed by the authors.
Bundy was still claiming he was framed so the authors could not ask him why he raped and killed his victims, or ask anything that implied he was guilty.
Bundy was happy to give his insight into the actions of this 'killer', and it was creepy to listen to him talk about the details of the crimes he committed as if it was someone else who did it.`Deeply disturbing book that really gave me the horrors.

A surprisingly factual, undramatic book on not only the crimes that Ted Bundy committed, but also a look into his psyche.
Michaud stipulates that Bundy experienced an arrested development and has very little connection with reality, and that he was compelled to commit these atrocities.
While not the biggest supporter of the death penalty, I am certainly glad Bundy has been removed from this earth so that he can never shatter lives again.
I admit I was surprised that he wasn't incarcerated in a mental institution, since he was clearly insane, but it's probably best that he went to death row instead.
I read this one when I was a teenager, just graduated from high school. I took a trip to see my godmother and stay for two weeks. During that time, I went camping with extended family and cousins. I read this one in my tent when I was bored with activities. Scared the bejeezus out of me!
9 out of 10. great book!
Stellar portrait of a fascinating and sickening individual. Bundy's third-person confessions--in which he "speculates" on how the crimes were committed--are spellbinding.
Read this in super quick time considering a) I have flu and am too tired and b) my reading rate is rubbish these days. Very interesting look at possibly the most infamous serial killer ever. Read it.
Couldn't put this down.
The abductions are better documented and provide a new insight into how they were possible by explaining how the victims were feeling on the day of their disappearances.
The authors were very clever to concoct a plan to get this insight from the killer.
Some of the most fascinating information came at the end of the book.
I felt like it was rushed and was worth elaborating on.
I felt like some other information was omitted such as the interaction with his victims whilst they were still alive.
You would think that by now I would stop being surprised by how horrific these infamous serial killers actually are.
But they never cease to disgust me.
And when you consider some of the areas he got his victims, it's kinda amazing he got away with it without being caught sooner.
His trial was held in Miami, about 20 miles away.
But I have to say the most disturbing part was learning that me and ole Teddy boy share the same birthday.
I finally learn I share a birthday with a famous person, and it's one of the biggest wackos ever.

As usual, this focuses too much on the killer and not enough on the victims, but maybe the authors had no choice in the matter. The other main frustration is the way the authors say over and over that the killer is mentally ill, and that all the experts agree on that, but they never tell you what his diagnosis is supposed to be. Nevertheless, this is a fascinating and compelling read. I long for an updated edition that might fill in the information the killer revealed in his last-minute confessions.
Exceptionally well written and fascinating descent in to madness.I have read books about Ted Bundy before and we never really get to the heart of what goes through his mind. The two escapes document a series of blunders which unfortunately allowed Bundy to continue his murders. How he got from Colorado to Florida was exceptionally unlucky for all concerned.It also gives us a lot more detail on the victims and those who avoided his clutches. Fascinating.If you have never read a book about Ted Bundy then read this. Excellent.
