https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28686830-turbo-twenty-three
Let us all join in on the Stephanie Plum prayer (that hasn't worked over the last five* years): Please, dear God, let this be the last book.
Just let it be over.*possibly (probably) longer.Edited to add 11/16/2016 (after reading):My prayers went unanswered.
The feeling of frustration when Stephanie is still in her life-threatening situation that happens at the end of every single book and there are fewer than ten pages left in the whole book is such a bitter one.
Possibly ever.
And you also know that you will continue to be fooled into reading one of these books every year because surely it has to end at some point, right?
RIGHT?!?
Team Ranger or Team Morelli?This is like watching a train wreck. You want the series to stop, but still you can't look away (or add it to your wishlist for that matter). Probably repetitive like the previous one, though.
I have no expectations that: 1) Stephanie will age; 2) Stephanie will choose Joe or Ranger and live happily ever after; 3) Stephanie will mature in any way.
I do expect that this book will have a mystery to solve and that Stephanie will be right in the middle of it.
Stephanie doesn't age; Stephanie doesn't choose Joe or Ranger; Stephanie does show slight signs of a tiny bit of mature growth, but nothing to be concerned about.
Working closely with Ranger has Stephanie in a quandary, the same one she has been in for the last 22 books: Joe or Ranger?
I saw it coming.After reviewing her last two two books I knew another one was more than likely going to be published.Sigh.At least in her last book there was a SMIDGEN of a hope for some character development.
I just hope Turbo Twenty-Three continues in this vein and does not leave the main character in an endless loop that has plagued the previous six or seven books.Make a decision.
They have just been too similar.-------------------------------------After reading:Exactly as I feared.
Maybe by book 25??
Or it will just go on and on and on with no character growth and similar plot lines.
TURBO TWENTY-THREE-------------------------------If none of the characters are going to grow, at the very least, Stephanie should find Rex, the hamster, dead.[image error]As the Methuselah of hamsters, his time has probably come.
3.5 stars! Always a fun, easy and comical read!
Quick, serves a purpose and consistency, you know exactly what you are going to get.
Grandma Mazur and her very funny antics, Lulu wearing clothes she has to squeeze in to, trying to help Stephanie but usually making things worse, fires, wrecked cars, and either Morelli or Ranger coming to the rescue.
The cases may change but not much else does.
Not much changes, but I think I have.
My three rating reflects the fact that I knew exactly what I was getting,, it is not the books fault that I no longer find it filling.
poor kid probably has a raging case of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome by now.There aren't even sex scenes, and that would be fine if you could actually feel chemistry and romance between Stephanie and her two boyfriends.
I mean, Ranger sends out sparks, but Stephanie seems to just go along with having sex with two men.
She'll be able to wear these if she keeps eating like she doesSpeaking of which, doesn't it bother anyone else that she is in a committed relationship with Morelli, but is still kissing Ranger constantly and having sex with him occasionally?
I haven't missed reading very many in this series featuring bounty hunter Stephanie Plum.
And while I admit the last two or three weren't as stellar as the others - how old must Stephanie get before she grows up and stops making goo-goo eyes at possible husband and cop Joe Morelli and the hunky, mysterious Ranger, for instance - the story itself and the fairly frequent yuk-yuks were sufficient to keep them enjoyable.Not so here.
Then he hijacks an ice cream treat-maker's freezer truck and is stopped, after which he takes off.
always a quick fun read
Another hilarious installment the the Stephanie Plum series. Keep them coming
I read these knowing just what they are and I think that's why I love them so much.
They are just great entertainment for me and a fast read.
I like that I know how it is going to go with Stephanie getting in the middle of a mystery, losing a handcuffed FTA, wrecking a car, something getting blown up, G-ma going to a viewing, Lula being outrageous,a little Rex and Bob and no decision being made between Morelli and Ranger (definitely Ranger for me).
It is what it is and to me that is a fun and hilarious read.
Usually, these books make me laugh.
I found very few laughs in this book.
Maybe it is too stale and all the same.
Even Grandma Mazur is wearing thin and she is the best character.
I was entertained, but I wasn't tickled pink either.
PLEASE, PLEASE Janet, please end this series.
You can't keep drawing it out.
It needs a decent ending.
I want some sort of an ending.
I plead with you Janet, give us a decent ending!
Focus on wicked series which is wonderful and fresh.
Another fun, laugh-out-loud installment in the series of bounty hunter Stephanie Plum. Not much has changed in Stephanie's eventful and humorous life.Her sidekick Lula is forever hungry and there are a lot of descriptions of the foods she is craving, be it hotdogs, snickers, donuts, fried chicken - I always find myself wanting to eat when I read these books... Stephanie is still torn between the mysterious Ranger and potential husband Joe Morelli and luckily they are both still keen to rescue her from her sometimes disastrous encounters!
I have enjoyed this series.
This book is the 23rd book in the Stephanie Plum series and I've read them all....in order.
But unfortunately, this is my least favorite and the sad thing is, is that I was so looking forward to reading this one.
I'm disappointed.
Stephanie, as an MC, is lost and she is losing even more ground.
There was no progression in this one for anyone.
I'm losing interest and I I don't know if I need to slap myself for continuing to hang on and hoping for the best, or to slap the author for letting this go stale.
I haven't read a book in this series since maybe #17, so when I saw it come up on my library rental list, I thought what the hell, I'll get it and flip through, see if anything's changed.
But Stephanie is with Joe and has sex with Ranger.
It's the main reason I quit the series about 7 books ago.
Not even a free library rental will ever sway me to open up another book in this series again.So, yeah.
I just hate seeing a series go from one that I really enjoyed to one that needed to end about 10 years ago.
I still ate ice cream today so I don't know what that says about me.I was dreading reading this book, 'cause it's the last one until the next one.
I neither like or dislike clowns, I just think the whole idea of them is weird.
Also, I think people who work as clowns are not happy people.
So I wasn't surprised to find a killer clown in a book about ice cream related murders.
I got this beautiful chocolate skin and I'm not going all crone with it because of smoking.""How did you quit?""I traded in my cigarettes for a vibrator.
You know what to expect with this series, and the story contains the usual comic and romantic elements: Stephanie and her sidekick Lula - a flamboyant former 'ho' who carries a big gun - create havoc in New Jersey; vehicles crash and blow up; Grandma Mazur snags an elderly motorcycle-riding boyfriend.....and hops aboard in her pink pantsuit and white sneakers; Stephanie's mom compulsively irons and has a few nips; Stephanie gets cozy with both Morelli and Ranger; and so on.
I'd like to see Stephanie, Lula, and Grandma Mazur go a little more 'over the top' in future books.
Hilarious and Fun!What a great book.
Ranger and Stephanie are working together closely to figure out the problems at an ice cream factory.
Stephanie has to go undercover and work there.
Love him.As for the love triangle between Stephanie, Ranger, and Morelli well that is still going on.
While in Florida working on the case with Ranger Stephanie has an epiphany.
Now if Ranger could have one,that would be great.
Ranger is the one Stephanie is in love with, the one she wishes for.
Maybe Tank or Hal can help him have his own epiphany.I gave this five stars because it definitely is if I could give it more I would.
I don't read series. Yet somehow I've read all twenty-three of these Stephanie Plum mysteries. How to explain that? It's the characters. I'm crazy about Grandma Mazur and Lulu and Ranger and Stephanie's parents and all the bad guys Stephanie encounters in the course of her work as a bounty hunter. As long as Janet Evanovich keeps writing 'em I'll keep reading 'em.
“Turbo Twenty-Three” is another funny and endearing novel in the Stephanie Plum series. I found myself laughing quite a bit and thrilled at some plot threads that were explored. My only issue with it is that it feels like the author knows things need a bit of a shake-up after all this time, and began to go down the road, only to chicken out rather abruptly at the end. I hope she takes some chances on the next one.
This was a light, fun read.
Stephanie Plum, bail bond enforcement agent, is still going back and forth between the two men in her life, Ranger and Morelli, which is getting a little old.
She is still doing undercover work for Ranger while apprehending fugitives.
And I might only be an eight on a good day."Lula on smoking: "I traded in my cigarettes for a vibrator."There are laugh out loud lines in this book.
I read it in one day.This was a library book.I rate it 3.5 out 5 stars(rounded up to 4)
Picked this up today at my local library and finished it a few minutes ago. Once again I found myself laughing out loud at the shenanigans of the regular crew. Once again Ms Plum is still caught between two men as the saga will continue. Now the long wait for #24.
Start here, at the beginning.Fall in love with Stephanie.
And, of course, choose sides: Cupcake or Babe.I took a quick peek at what others thought of this one.
I want Stephanie.
I need Lula and Ranger and okay, even Morelli (Team Babe!).
My point is, why must she choose?
Stephanie was missing pieces of herself.
Stephanie Plum.Maybe this was her doppelgänger and she's off with Diesel somewhere (Christmas Cookie shows up in book 8.5).
Maybe she was dreaming of Stephanie 2.0.
I don't want Stephanie to die.
I don't want Stephanie to die.
Pretty weak effort. Usual Stephanie Plum messes. Lula driving/crashing a semi was pretty funny. Why Ranger thinks Stephanie can help him solve security problems for his Rangeman business is one of the great mysteries of the universe, but he is always there to save her. This books is ostensibly about two warring local ice cream makers, one of which seems to be really down on his luck. Meanwhile Stephanie tries with varying degrees of success to bring in various people who her boss Vinnie has bonded. Oh, and Lula's reality television ideas are modestly amusing.
I still love these books!! Steph has to go undercover in an ice cream factory. The whole time she was working the conveyor belt I kept thinking, "when does the Lucy scene start? Remember, "I Love Lucy" working in the candy factory? She starts eating them when it gets out of hand? As a kid I kept thinking, "what a great job!"Reread June 2018– I never thought going to DisneyWorld sounded all that great, but Steph makes it sound magical! Or maybe it was Ranger that made it magical. 🤔
I still love this series. Stephanie and Lula still make me laugh out loud. If Lula's description of going into a public men's room (her idea for a new reality series, after Naked Bungee Jumping didn't work out) doesn't make you laugh, you should probably be reading something else.
Industrial sabotage sees Stephanie moonlighting as an undercover investigator for Ranger at the Bogart Ice Cream factory.
Oh, and no free ice cream!!As usual, plenty of madcap goings-on: in between bringing in skips, Stephanie is present for the demise of a Police car, her own Jeep Cherokee and two ice cream trucks; Lula decides her path to fame is in the making of naked video clips, the Trenton version of Naked and Afraid; and Grandma Mazur drives her daughter to drink by assisting in said videos, then bringing home a tattooed bikie bar-tender.
And of course, Stephanie keeps vacillating between Morelli and Ranger: tempted between having her cake and eating it too.
Despite the fact that Stephanie misses a huge clue and almost gets frozen herself, the case is solved.
I guess I probably could if I really tried but I love listening to these audiobooks because they're so easy so I'm often listening as I do other things and just kind of enjoy instead of analyze.
It could be worse because there have been worse love triangles in cozy mysteries that still also haven’t resolved and at least I like Ranger and Morelli both… But it’s been twenty-three books!
I guess I probably could guess a few if I tried but I love listening to these books on audio because they’re so short and fun and easy to listen to while doing other things.
A fun, lighthearted read.My View:As I read the Stephanie Plum sagas I am transported into a world of mad cap adventures, over the top situations, zany characters that I know and love and a heroine that is ditzy but always manages to come out on top.
Part of the enjoyment facto when reading this series is you know to what to expect – a light, fun, entertaining, unpretentious read that is guaranteed to have laugh out loud moments, a fast paced plot, a few misadventures, a continuing love triangle situation and a bit of crime thrown in.
