https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113091.A_Death_in_the_Family
I just read James Agee’s A Death in the Family and it’s so damn depressing that all I want to do is sit in a dark closet and tremble with existential angst.
The version of A Death in the Family that I read is the Pulitzer-winning McDowell-produced work.
Lofaro evidently reconstructed his more “authentic” version by removing the McDowell opening (a sort of prologue titled “Knoxville: 1915” that was actually a previously-published Agee story), putting the book back into pure chronological order (rather than McDowell’s interspersed flashbacks), and adding chapters that McDowell removed.McDowell claimed that he hewed to Agee’s original manuscript with a few minor exceptions.
A young husband and father is taken in the prime of life.
It’s also a discussion of God interpreted by the young boy who has lost his father.
He tries to interpret things through the contradictory and confusing things he hears from adults.
Most of the story is told through the eyes of this young boy.The work is set in 1915, so we have hand-crank cars and horses.
Agee led a typical Great Author life: he was a chain-smoking alcoholic who died at age 45 from a heart attack in a taxi on his way to a doctor’s appointment.

You May Ask Yourself...Am I Right? Am I Wrong? ....Same as it ever was; same as it ever was"  And you may ask yourself:Do I Want to Feel the Loss of a fictional Close Family Member?And you may tell yourself:Might Help Me through GrievingLetting the days go by, let the water hold me down ["Once in a Lifetime," Talking Heads]Set primarily in east Tennessee, A Death in the Family won the 1958 Pulitzer Prize for Lit. This book is among a handful that I could not finish reading after realizing where
And you may ask yourself:Do I Want to Feel the Loss of a fictional Close Family Member?And you may tell yourself:Might Help Me through GrievingLetting the days go by, let the water hold me down ["Once in a Lifetime," Talking Heads]Set primarily in east Tennessee, A Death in the Family won the 1958 Pulitzer Prize for Lit. This book is among a handful that I could not finish reading after realizing where the novel was headed, saying, 'nope, life's too damn short, I cannot volunteer myself to suffer through this experience.' Specifically, I chose abandonment after asking why I must read a book to experience a tragic event (death of a man, who was a father, a husband, a brother, a son to surviving family members) and its aftermath (grieving), so painful to endure in reality.
Published after the death of the author, A Death in the Family won the Pulitzer Prize in 1958.
Unfortunately, that fact provides no guarantee that every reader is going to love a given masterpiece.
Sadly, this is going to be the case here.
My rating is not a reflection of the quality of the writing, it is based solely on personal preference.Very fine writing captured the devastating grief of the new widow, the confusion of her two small children, and the awkwardness and helplessness of friends and family that invariably follows in the wake of a death.
I felt the suffocating sorrow knowing the worst was yet to come for the characters: after the ceremonies end and friends and family slip away to return to their lives, you are left alone and the shock wears away to leave you hopeless and bereft.
Although Agee died before the book's completion and its contents were pieced together, I didn't feel anything was left unwritten.
The fixation on the manner and details of Jay's death was so natural - we are wired to sort out and categorize events in our attempt to understand and control.
“Sobre tu dormir profundo y sin sueños, pasan las estrellas silenciosas” “Una muerte en la familia” es una novela verdaderamente singular en la que su autor explora con gran delicadeza los sentimientos que rodean la muerte, desde la incomprensión, la protesta y el abatimiento hasta el profundo sentimiento de soledad y la final resignación llena de amor y ternura. Singular por ser la única que escribió el autor y que editó y publicó póstumamente su amigo David McDowell en 1957 alzándose con el P
“Una muerte en la familia” es una novela verdaderamente singular en la que su autor explora con gran delicadeza los sentimientos que rodean la muerte, desde la incomprensión, la protesta y el abatimiento hasta el profundo sentimiento de soledad y la final resignación llena de amor y ternura.
Murió anoche mientras yo dormía y ahora ya es por la mañana.
En los momentos finales de la novela, una simbólica mariposa que se posa en el ataúd durante el entierro parece conciliar las posturas en ese anhelo vital, bien de trascendencia, bien de poesía, del que nunca nos podremos desprender.
Yet such scenes as when Jay, in the midst of stealing a quick, backsliding nip, lifts his boy up onto a bar counter and proudly watches him charm the tavern patrons, or afterwards pauses with his son on a hill overlooking their town and places his hand steadily and affectionately atop the child's head, are sparsely worded moments that Agee fills with a tension, a meaning, a resonance familiar to all.So it is that we come to feel a sense of kinship with the characters.
Using flashbacks of the family softly singing with each other under the stars, interacting with visiting relatives, and soothing Rufus' night terrors, Agee manages to paint touching portraits of the bonds between parents and children, husband and wife, a gentleness and kindliness to this hard-framed, firm-jawed man.
James Agee was only six years old when his young father died in an automobile accident.
The novel was unfinished when James Agee also died at a young age.
His editor had to decide where to place several gorgeously written flashback scenes of happier days for the family so that they would not detract from the main story.The beginning of the novel shows the love between Jay and his son Rufus.
This is a sensitive look at a family dealing with life and death.More about James Agee and his family: Agee also wrote a shorter autobiographical novel, The Morning Watch , about his years at an Episcopalian school in Tennessee.
Two InquiriesI'm starting this review for the third time, hoping to make it more focused and succinct. Let's start with the best the book has to offer: Knoxville: Agee's childhood home…On the rough wet grass of the back yard my father and mother have spread quilts. We all lie there, my mother, my father, my uncle, my aunt, and I too am lying there. First we were sitting up, then one of us lay down, and then we all lay down, on our stomachs, or on our sides, or on our backs, and they have kept o
We hear it in the unhurried description of the summer evening sounds, the ordinary detail of family life in the garden, the mazy repetitions, the lapping rhythm lulling the six-year old boy to eventual sleep, all leading to that startling ending: "…but will not ever tell me who I am." It is printed as the Prologue to this autobiographical novel, published after his death two decades later.
When I read it, I assumed that this had always been Agee's intention, and that the 240-page novel would continue the adult's exploration of that primal question—Who am I, and what has made me so?—taking the six-year-old boy's experience of his father's death in a car accident as the germinal, catalytic event.To a certain extent, I was right.
He felt that although his father loved their home and loved all of them, he was more lonely than the contentment of this family love could help; that it even increased his loneliness, or made it hard for him not to be lonely.I've been at a loss about having these kinds of "insights" into people I have known the way that young Rufus does.
Sometimes the things you think make it too easy to walk away, to feel less lonely apart.He told me because I wasn't there and he wanted to tell somebody and thought I would want to know and I do.
The vivid inner lives of the characters that Agee creates are instantly recognizable--I think that Agee is close to Tolstoy in his ability to verbalize those intimate feelings that pass through us, discharge their precious emotional cargo and then carry on, leaving us to dig into the recesses of our mind to try and recall, through the help of that tired bloodhound named Memory, what actually happened to us.
Mind you, the book is quite sad and offers none of the satisfaction of a good yarn with its tidy realization and conclusion.
********************************I have chosen to give this book five stars because it so very accurately portrays death in a Southern family.
The book is about a father's death and how this impacts on the lives of his children, his wife and every single member of the family.
I close this book with admiration for the accuracy with which the death in an ordinary Southern family is drawn.
I have read the McDowell version.
The book was first published in 1957 after the author’s death.
The flashbacks are in italics in the printed McDowell version.
Agee's prose seems to me deeply influenced by Faulkner, but with an uncanny ring of Chekhov. Still reading.— Ah, the book fell from my hands. Must give it another try when the planets align. :-)
This book starts out gentle and familiar with the description of a father and young son at the movie house watching Charlie Chaplin.
Words are not required to convey the message of connection.Similarly, the quiet interaction between mother and father, husband and wife, later in the middle of the dark night is filled with meaning, much unspoken but riveting.
A lot of space is devoted to what is going on inside people’s heads and I find the writing quietly captivating.I found Chapter 12 is especially interesting as the family deals with loss: All of the people in the house feel a strange presence, and they become convinced that it is Jay’s spirit, come home one last time.
I could have read sooner but whenever you get to a book is it's proper place in time and I'm grateful finally found my proper time for this masterpiece.post script 6/15/08 father's day- I don't know if I'm up for 615 pages for the revised edition because I was so impressed with the first -- it was short and "sweet".
On this father's day i salute my dad who worked with Agee at Time and tells the story better than I about having to sit on him to calm him down at a very short Christmas party because there was a woman in the research department (not my mom) with whom Agee was extremely upset; whether because she was ignoring him or was involved with someone else - don't know.
The book follows the grieving and thought processes of those closest to him: his wife Mary, son Rufus, daughter Catherine, and several of his in-laws.
This book is to be read for the writing much more than for the story.
I was especially impressed by the way the author captured the thoughts and feelings of the children, Rufus and Catherine, as they observed what was happening around them and tried to understand death and all of its rituals.
There is so much honesty in this book about things we don't usually admit to thinking and feeling and wanting when a loved one dies unexpectedly.
This is life on the page.--This was my thought when I was about half way through this novel.
How was I to know that it was to become even more sad to the point of wishing I could explain to a child as I read the final page.
Agee knows human beings on the most basic level and he is able to bring them to life.The descriptions of Mary and the children saying goodbye to husband and father are precious and painful.
The description and words of Father Jackson made me want to scratch the page.
A masterpiece of characterization. I can't wait for the BBC Radio 4 discussion about it with the author.A month after the above sentences, I discovered that the book of the month announced, though of the same title, is actually the first volume of My Struggle by Karl Ove Knausgaard, another highly acclaimed 'A Death in the Family'. Well, I will read that one as well. All I can say is that it was a lucky mistake :-)
As for myself, it makes me want to punch a wall or break things when I have to plod through painstaking descriptions of people's thoughts, going round and round over the same thing like a dog worrying a bone.
When not filling page after page (with nary a paragraph break) with the same thought being described ten ways to Sunday, the author then switches to dialogue: a tortuous, repetitive dialogue that goes on for pages and pages of either a person saying the same thing over and over in different ways, or of a group of people talking and talking relentlessly about the same subject.
If I were to try to describe the book merely based on the plot, I would probably struggle because apart from the one focal incident (the accident), there are no big plot points.Instead, it's a haunting exploration of the anatomy of grief seen primarily through the eyes of Jay's 6 year old son, Rufus, and also through the eyes of the adults that surround him - his maternal grandparents, uncle, great-aunt, his sister and mother.
Yes, the pretext for the novel is a death in the family, but the subject matter is the experience of life.The best captured experience of life here is from the point of view of a 6-year-old boy in the context of the untimely death of his father.
The experience of early childhood is not so much a gender specific one.
Before the injection of hormones forever divides the various genders, the experience of early childhood is a more universal one than the experience of later life.This is an extraordinary novel.
At least to me.Certainly there are lyric passages of great beauty, the most famous of which would be the introductory "Knoxville: Summer of 1915".
But even that was improved upon when Samuel Barber famously set it to music as a commission for the great American soprano Eleanor Steber.
Agee's descriptions of nature, light and shadow, and the sounds one hears (or does not hear, in the case of the numerous nearly-deaf characters) are most successful.
I was much less taken with his dialogue and character portrayals, one exception being the deliciously malevolent Father Jackson.Agee talked of pursuing an improvisational writing style akin to Jazz music.
I don't believe I've ever read a book or seen a movie that so realistically portrays a death in the family and what every single member goes through; the weaving of conversations and thoughts between the characters, and being an outsider looking in, some of the conversations and things that were said to Mary and the children.
People think they are doing good and mean well, when actually they are saying all the wrong things.
Agee's father had gone to see his father who had had a heart attack and died in a car accident.
Which makes it all the more heart wrenching.
it's true that this book contains some beautifully evocative and poignant images of a family's grief, but overall it was a real struggle to get through.
i haven't read a book like this since my american lit classes in grad school, and i can't say that i miss the style of early 20th century prose.
james agee died before this novel was finished, and the published version contains two long sections that suggest, to me, that he had a longer work in mind, one that might have revolved primarily around the death, but gave a fuller picture of the entire family.
و هرچیزی که قابل اثبات نباشد، به هر ترتیب از نظر من رد شده است._کتاب رو میشه به دو قسمت تقسیم کرد، قبل از مرگ و بعد از مرگ.به همین شکل روایت ها و اتفاقاتی که قبل از مرگ و بعد از مرگ میفته متفاوته، مرگی که به شکلی ممکنه در هر زمان و مکانی سراغ هر کسی بیاد.
طبیعتا تا حرف از مرگ میشه خواه ناخواه افکار به سمت دنیای پس از مرگ میره که آیا این پایان کاره یا نه؟ کتاب هم دید مسیحیتی داشت و هم هر آزگار ی ضد مسیحیتی، وقتی فردی از خانواده ای از دست میره همگی برای آمرزش و شادی روح اون دست به دعا میشن.
She wanted to take her in her arms and groan unto God for what it meant to be alive(p120).""Suddenly there opened within her a chasm of infinite depth and from it flowed the paralyzing breath of eternal darkness.
You've got to keep your mind off of pitying your own rotten luck and setting up any kind of howl about it.
You've got to remember that things as bad as this and a hell of a lot worse have happened to millions of people before and that they've come through it and you can too.
***3.5 Stars***
5 Stars for the writing.
2 Stars for the story - in MY opinion.
And I felt so bad for both Rufus and Katherine as they struggle to figure out what is going on around them.
There were parts of this story that I just didn't like; didn't like the writing, or the story, or what was going on.
Hence the 2 stars.
I struggled with a lot of the story in general; some of it was the subject matter and what I have already experienced - there were quite a few moments of tears.
There are golden moments in here - particularly with the alcoholic brother - but they are few and far between because it seems that no one dared take a blue pencil to this short yet all-too-long novel.A slice-of-life style novel, "A Death in the Family" focuses on the events leading up to, and immediately after, the death of a young suburban father.
As I mentioned earlier, the only character of any interest (by dint of actually being DIFFERENT) is the alcoholic brother, who doesn't factor in nearly as much as the other boring, white suburbans.
