https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826698.Jefferson_the_Virginian
although the author mentions this slave by name on at least two occasions, he provides no additional information in this volume.The history of this period Is often dependent on the letters and other writings of the major characters.
Although the author suggests he had a great love of children, he regularly left his own children in the care of others for long periods of time while he pursued his own activities.I was mystified to read that he privately wrote of opposing slavery while he continued to own and profit from hundreds of slaves.
His private scruples evidently did not impact his political actions on that topic.I began this six volume series assuming it would cover Jefferson in significant depth.
This is the first of six volumes about the life of Thomas Jefferson. I love to read real history like this that was written decades before it all got put through the lens of political correctness and the continuing apology tour that so many so-called historians pass off as history in the 21st century. Nice to read an author who doesn't pander or insult their audience! Great book! Looking forward to eventually reading the remaining volumes.
This is the first of six volumes by Dumas Malone in the Jefferson and His Time series- winner of the 1975 Pulitzer Prize for History.
It is one thing to have known in the abstract that the American Revolution and the creation of our constitution was an exceptional event in history, but quite another to envision the man, immersed in philosophical study, informed by the realities of his age, drafting the first statute on freedom of religion for the state of Virginia.
You can hear the lament in his words when he could not uncover essential bits of information he wishes were there.
The Audible narrator for this volume is memorable- both genteel Virginian and female with swagger at the same time.
Rather comprehensive. I cannot imagine that this is one of six volumes as it covers his early life all the way through the age of 41. Dumas makes no apologies for the life of this great statesman, philosopher, musician, scientist. He is sympathetic in ALL areas, which lies in contrast to other volumes I have read, and while somewhat refreshing, can be annoying as well. His writing is so interesting it made for a pleasant read. I learned new things pretty consistently throughout and one cannot help but respect and be humbled by this man.
He was the oldest man ever awarded a Pulitzer when he received it in 1975 at age 83 (before the landmark work had even seen its last volume), and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1983.“Jefferson the Virginian” covers the first four decades of Thomas Jefferson’s life, up to the point when in 1784 he was sailing across the Atlantic to become an American diplomat in Europe.
And since this is not an American history book, while incremental context would be useful it is not strictly necessary.Overall, I am pleased but not overjoyed at my first experience with Malone’s towering work on Thomas Jefferson.
Due to the author's hardheaded defense of his subject which seems to restrict him from raising even the smallest criticism, I can't give this book higher than a 2/5 (Only recommended if you can tolerate some major problems with this book).This isn't a terrible read--in fact, I found the portions about Jefferson's youth pretty charming--but Malone's bias in favor of his subject is so ridiculous that it skews the historical accuracy.
He is so quick to defend literally everything Jefferson said, wrote, and did that it's sometimes hard to know exactly what happened.
He also already attacks Jefferson's rivals to the point of strawmanning them...
He forgives Jefferson FAR too much.
Detailed, sympathetic, and surprisingly readable.Malone doesn't shy away from Jefferson's ambivalent attitudes toward slavery, but the net impression is that he was about as enlightened as one could expect a person of his station and time to be.
In other areas, Jefferson is presented as, next to Franklin, the leading Enlightenment figure in the British colonies.
One reason I was glad to read this was for the detailed investigation of Jefferson's conduct as governor of Virginia toward the close of the revolution.
Malone clears Jefferson of the most serious partisan charges made against him, yet the episode remains the least glorious of an otherwise distinguished career.
I bought this at Monticello when I visited in either 1973 or 1982. Have moved it from home to home and it finally got pulled from the Shelf of Unread Books. But I couldn't finish it. It may be award-winning and well-respected, but it's also dry, dated, and full of assumptions that can't be supported. "He may have thought this... or felt that... or walked down this street." All may be true but it doesn't support including all the might-have-beens in a biography. Write a novel, for crying out loud! I'll look for another biography of Jefferson.
interesting, not as full of stories and anecdotes as I like but thoroughly factual and informative.
The book covers the first approximately 40 years of Jefferson's life, walking the reader through his birth in colonial Virginia, his family's early ties with the famous Randolph family of Virginia, and his training in the law under respected Virginia law teacher George Wythe.Malone then delves into Jefferson's growing role in the government of Virginia; he not only served as a lawyer for a brief period, but he began to attain a role in the pre-Revolutionary War legislature of the Old Dominion state.
Jefferson's less than stellar actions during the fighting, which have been much criticized and (in Malone's take) overstated, are looked at in chronological order in Jefferson the Virginian.
Thomas Jefferson has always been one of my favorite presidents.
This is the first volume in Dumas Malone's six-volume biography Jefferson and His Time.
This volume covers Jefferson's early life until he leaves for France in the 1780s.
It's hard to imagine any of today's politicians embracing these forward-looking ideals, especially when so many are so desperately trying to move backwards.If I was an academic historian, I would probably give this 5 stars.
At times the focus on Jefferson was a little to tight.
Never the less, I enjoyed this and look forward to the other volumes.
This first volume of Malone's 6-volume-biography of Jefferson covers quite a long time of Jefferson's life.
After a short visit on Jefferson working as a lawyer the book turns to the political mind of the man, covering his political views widely but ostensively.
The chapters on his time as governer and the war of independence show how controversial even a figure like Jefferson can be.
Having bought the whole set I am not yet sure why it had to be streached over 6 volumes when the biggest part of Jeffersons life (at least time-wise) could be put in the first volume.
Thus begins my somewhat lengthy journey through Dumas Malone's multi-volume biography of Thomas Jefferson.
The story starts out somewhat slow, with a history of Jefferson's ancestors and their activities in Virginia.
After that initial history, however, the pace picks up a bit.
By the end of the book, I felt as if I'd read a complete biography of someone.
This book brings you right up to the point when Jefferson was appointed as an ambassador to Europe.
I look forward to reading the next volumes of this biography, as I'm sure they will shed more light onto the complex personality of Thomas Jefferson.
This was the first in a six volume series on the life of Thomas Jefferson.
This was a wonderful read that took us from Jefferson's birth to the day he left for Europe following the Revolutionary War. The detail was incredible, but it was written in a way that it never felt overwhelming and the story never felt stale.
The reader develops a real appreciation for how Jefferson later became the famous and even legendary American figure.
My only criticism would be that I felt the book did not look at Jefferson's personal life in enough detail, but as a political history, this will be a series to treasure.
It’s shocking to realize this book won prizes. The writing is pompous, ponderous, pedantic and generally terrible. Yes, all these adjectives are appropriate. On second reading, just to confirm my opinion, I lowered my rating. What saves the book is the amount of detail Malone collected. As a researcher, Malone probably did well. As a Jefferson fan, he’s enthusiastic to the point of nausea. As for the book, it needs a writer.
3.5 StarsThis biography is well researched. It’s not the easiest book to relax and read. The author goes into detail or better described, tangents of people around Jefferson. This makes it somewhat hard to follow. In saying that, I got an understanding of why Jefferson did certain things that I learned in American Sphinx. Bottom line, I can’t get enough history on Founding Fathers but I had to push myself to finish this.
Dumas won a Pulitzer for this book and his following Jefferson works. Need I say more? This book gave me an extensive, thorough understanding of Jefferson, his time, his world, and more. Exhaustively researched, and extremely well written, this book is one for the ages.
This book is excellent. I learned a lot about him and it is only the first 41 years of his life. I also loved reading about the revolutionary war from a non combatant and how he saw it happen. I will read the others later.
Very well researched, you forget how instrumental Jeffers was in laying the groundwork for our nation and how much trial and error went into many of the early legislation. Dense, but well worth it.
Decent biography of Thomas Jefferson that covers the time between his early life to his post-Revolutionary War trip to France.
This first volume of Malone's biography was published in 1948, in the midst of an American society that was getting ready to undergo profound change -- indeed, in the very year in which segregationist Southern Democrats responded to the national Democratic Party's move toward civil rights by bolting the national party and forming their own rump party of "Dixiecrats." But one would not know much about the difficult times in which the book was written, or about the complexity of the antebellum American South as a cultural and historical context for Jefferson's life, or about Jefferson's tangled relationship with race and slavery, from reading Jefferson the Virginian.
This volume is aptly titled as almost all of it concerns Jefferson's service to his own state of Virginia.Malone begins by talking about Jefferson's genealogy, specifically his father Peter as he was a well-known geographer and local politican in his own right.
That quality of writing makes the book eminently readable, even if some of the subject matter itself (Jefferson's thoughts on the separation of church and state in Virginia) is somewhat dry.
Malone also makes Jefferson out to be the most benificent slave-owner that there was.
I suspect that Malone knew of Jefferson's affair with his slave Sally Hemings, as he does mention the Hemings family a few times, but he chose not to write about it.
This is mostly a good book. As a chronicle of Jefferson's early (first 41 years) life, it is pretty spectacular. However, it is detailed to the point of boredom much of the time: Malone gives you what seems like a day to day account of Jefferson's life, rather than an overview as many other biographies typically do. Whether this is a positive or not depends on what level of reading you are looking for, but this book is not an easy read (compared to, say, McCullough's book on John Adams).
However, Malone does an excellent job of backing up his historical opinions with supporting documents and after reading this account of Jefferson I like him more than I did before.
He does not delve in to much detail on these so keep Google handy if you are historically challenged.The part I liked the most was Dumas discussion of Jefferson's years as governor, especially the British raid on Monticello, which gives me a much better understanding of what really happened.
One doesn't feel like they really know Jefferson as a person when the book comes to an end.
Personal background throughout is perfunctory, though not lacking, and Malone seems less enthusiastic about the less philosophical parts of Jefferson's life.
The personal and philosophical are treated separately, and while this doesn't detract from Malone's overall emphasis, it does reduce Jefferson at times to a walking idea, a philosophy rather than a man.
The emphasis is on the mind of the man himself, alone.Given the age of this series, this first volume is surprisingly readable, certainly understandable, if not enthralling.
The book provides an excellent accounting of Jefferson's achievements, but still leaves one wondering what the man himself may have been like.
Part of this is due to the fact that Jefferson was a private individual who kept his personal business to himself, though Malone himself (who could have used accounts written by Jefferson's contemporaries to reconstruct a semblance of his personality) seems to deliberately keep his subject at arms length.
Two minor criticisms:1) Like many historians, Dumas is enthralled by his subject and tends to put a positive spin on the more unseemly aspects of his life.
This book is an exceptional history of Thomas Jefferson.
The level of detail regarding Jefferson's family and early life is better than anything I have read to date.
The book attempts to explain the many facets Jefferson's life as an architect, naturalist, jurist, political theorist, governor, philosopher, inventor, the list goes on and on.
Jefferson was a extremely learned man and was a voracious reader.
Although I love Jefferson, I am sure there are things that were left out in an attempt to protect his name, I assume of course.I can't wait to get started on Volume II
This review applies to the entire series, Jefferson and His Times.Anyone who wants to understand a fraction of Jefferson, needs to start here.
Heavily footnoted, this series puts to shame all other works on this great American.
Some popular authors have written of Jefferson suggesting what he may have thought, or he may have done (Brody, anyone?) Malone is authoritative and needs not speculate.
Read the series and then ask yourself, "Is it more likely than not that Jefferson fathered Sally Hemming's children?" I can only conclude that he did not.
All resurrected in the hope of distracting the American public from a current political scandal.
An excellent work concerning the early years of Jefferson in Virginia.
I read most of this in preparation for my trip to Virginia, including Monticello and Williamsburg.
Reviewing this book helped me appreciate many of the historical sites we saw throughout the state.
It also helps you understand more of Jefferson's thinking about slavery and freedom.
Malone gives enough detail to be interesting, but not so much that you get bogged down.
Dumas Malone was mentioned on our tour of Monticello (I think that's where I heard it) as the foremost historian on Jefferson.
year span.
Overall, Jefferson the Virginian was an enjoyable read.
The first volume in the series Jefferson and His Time traces Jefferson from his childhood to the start of his voyage to France for his role as minister plenipotentiary to France.
At times, I felt that Malone was a bit too fawning over Jefferson, that Malone needed to come up with an excuse whenever he discussed anything that would cast Jefferson in a negative light.
For example, Malone glosses over the British raid of Monticello.
Despite some issues I had with this volume, I plan to continue to read the other volumes in this series.
