https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19809.The_Last_Lion
In many ways, he was the British Teddy Roosevelt: an accomplished writer; an inveterate adventurer; an ambitious politician; a daring thinker; a warmonger and killer (by his own account, Churchill slew a handful of dervishes at Omdurman); a lover of navies; a benign white supremacist; a man of tireless of enthusiasms; a man whose personality shaped the world.
Ironically, it would be his chief nemesis – Adolf Hitler – who made Churchill into a great man, a remembered man, rather than a footnoted failure of the Great War. To my mind, Manchester is the perfect author to take on the task of dramatizing Churchill’s life.
If you are like me, books and films lead you to admire for Churchill’s leadership, resolve, and inspiration during World War 2, but you are short on details about his origins and accomplishments in the decades before his becoming Prime Minister in 1940 at the age of 67.
One final case of direct action in war came when he was forced out of his Admiralty post after the Gallipoli defeat, and he took up a position as a lieutenant colonel for several months on the Western Front in Belgium, reportedly making 36 forays into No Man’s Land.
I tend to think however, that the reason Churchill's story continues to resonate is because he was such an abject failure in so many ways.
He failed as a student, as a solider, and as a politician and yet somehow he drew from some part of himself for the strength to continue.
Granted, Churchill was never confronted the challenges of someone like Malcolm X, but his approach to failure continues to distinguish him to this day.
If you want to read about another great man, meandering effortlessly along a path to fame and glory, don't bother with Manchester's work.
This is what the old Lion said: "I have thought carefully in these last days whether it was part of my duty to consider entering into negotiations with that man….If this long Island story of ours is to end at last let it end only when each one of us lies choking in his own blood upon the ground.""Even though large tracts of Europe and many old and famous states have fallen or may fall into the grip of the Gestapo and all the odious apparatus of Nazi rule, we shall not flag or fail.
I cannot get through it without blubbering.The book is a lens into the Victorian era with the remarkable details that shaped the lives of young Winston and all of his peers.
Magnificent! Just finished my second reading of The Last Lion 1: Visions of Glory 1874-1932, the first installment of William Manchester biography of Winston Churchill. Even better the second time around, after having read many excellent books about the period when Churchill lived, specially about both World War I & II. Highly recommended! Full review to come, for now on to the the next The Last Lion 2: Winston Spencer Churchill Alone, 1932-40!
Description: Winston Spencer Churchill: Visions of Glory 1874-1932When Winston Spencer Churchill was born in Blenheim Palace, Imperial Britain stood at the splendid pinnacle of her power. Yet within a few years, the Empire would hover on the brink of a catastrophic new era. This first volume of the best-selling biography of the adventurer, aristocrat, soldier, and statesman covers the first 58 years of the remarkable man whose courageous vision guided the destiny of those darkly troubled times and who looms today as one of the greatest figures of the 20th century. excellent - straight onto book 2...
Through his force of personality, he swayed many debates in the House of Commons.
This volume is the first of three covering Winston’s life from birth up through the early 1930’s.
Like every man he had his flaws.
He was politically ambitious and during this part of his life he held a seat in the House of Commons, was Chancellor of the Exchequer, Minister of Munitions, and a Naval Lord.
I am looking forward to moving on to Volume II covering the years between the wars.
As this volume ended, Winston was out of favor with all 3 of Britain’s major political parties.
Never close to his father--if at all--Winston would write pleading letters to his mother to come visit him during the years he would spend at prep school.
Winston would levy powerful rhetoric in defense of his allies and against his enemies, giving "impromptu" speeches after hours of preparation the night before.This first volume of the biography covers the first fifty eight years of Churchill's life, up to a time when many politicians would be entering the twilight of their careers.
With nearly 1000 pages and a dynamic figure like Churchill, an author can do darn near anything he likes, so we shouldn't be surprised that he does.
Of course, as the author himself observes, even with a particular topic is limited to a contemporary matter, Winston Churchill can drop in observations that are timeless and do so in an amazingly quotable fashion.In fact, that may have been the biggest surprise of the biography, to see Winston Churchill as a working writer rather than as an aristocrat dabbling with writing.

In Manchester’s biography one can almost feel Winston’s personality softening up somewhat, after he meets Clementine.Mr. Manchester explains with great clarity the several ups and downs of Winston’s political career (the Dardanelles’ being a major one) – his goal was always to occupy the Prime Minister’s office.
Part of the reason Winston did not reach the Prime Minister’s office was his inability to play on the team.This is a marvelous biography of one of the great figures in history – one, who in many ways, had his feet in both the 19th and 20th centuries.
I have read several Manchester books previously and this is the best of his books.
Manchester spends a lot of time developing the character of a young Winston but as Winston ages there is more discussion of the various battles and politics of the time than straight bio.
The description of the Battle of the Dardanelles in WWI is the best that I have read.
I think the discussion about the military operation in Khartoum could have also been longer.
Let me add that I went to YouTube to listen to the real voice of Winston Spencer Churchill and it was not this disagreeable.
In addition the narrator made the mistake of not only using his horrible intonation for direct quotes but also the author's views of what Churchill thought on various subjects.
This made it further unclear what exactly was a direct quote and what was the author's view.
However this book is not directed toward those who don't have a rather good knowledge of the man and the history of his time before they even pick up the book.
Both the subject and the author's way with words made this first volume a very engrossing read. I'm going to start on volume two of THE LAST LION today.
He does this a few times in the book, returning later to establish the changes in Edwardian England, and once again post-Great War. The English mindset differed greatly at these three points and with Churchill as the central actor, which makes it important to understand how he fits into this backdrop, as it surely shaped his decisions and his life.
Manchester highlights Churchill’s Cabinet time in Asquith’s Liberal Government, placing such issues as Irish Home Rule and the eventual push into the Great War as decisions that paved the way for Churchill’s successes and abject failures as an MP.
As someone who has not (yet) read a lot of 20th century history, the picture in my head of Winston Churchill was that of an almost mythic figure, the indefatigable opponent of Adolf Hitler.
His "black dog," he called it: "I've no desire to quit this world, but thoughts, desperate thoughts, come into the head." Churchill once confided to his doctor: "I don't like standing near the edge of a platform when an express train is passing through.
I don't think anyone needs to be told this, but Winston Churchill was quite a fascinating person.
The author, William Manchester, does a good job of bringing to life Winston's childhood and early development.
These foreign adventures and experiences are the parts of the book I enjoyed the most.
Otherwise, a large portion of the book deals with Winston and his experiences in parliament and the cabinet.
Overall, some of the political intrigue, debate, and insight into the decision making process that occurred in these institutions was interesting, but on average I didn't find these parts quite as interesting as Winston's experiences abroad.
I've read a bunch on Churchill (mainly about his roles in WWII and WWI) and this book is only topped by writing Churchill did himself.
This is the first of two volumes that Manchester wrote about Churchill.
This volume covers his life from birth to 1931 and obviously includes his time in the British Cabinet during World War I.
I was not very familiar with his father's role in Parliament nor Churchill's own role as a journalist during the Boer War in South Africa (and his capture and escape).
I look forward to reading the second volume.
He was a hero of XX century, but it is a noticeable fact that he won his first election in the XIX century.3) His partnership with Lloyd George in the implementation of social reforms in Britain in the early XX century.4) A very detailed account of Churchill participation in Gallipoli's crisis.It's a long book (over 800 pages), but it's worth each minute spent in the reading!
I read this in short segments over several months and like other biographies I've read, it was a real eye opener for me. I wanted to find that there was brilliant planning and execution. But like so many things in history, huge decisions are grey instead of black or white, based on gut instinct instead of tremendous intel. I'm going to wait for a while to pick up the follow up book. I need something light now.
"Now at last, at last, his hour had struck. He had been waiting in parliament for forty years, had grown bald and gray in his nation's service, had endured slander and calumny only to be summoned when the situation seemed hopeless to everyone expect him." THIS is a biography! Absolutely stellar and I can't wait to read the other two volumes. Don't be fooled by the shear size of the book; Manchester doesn't waste a page.
Thorough. Very thorough. Thankfully, the subject is fascinating. I learned so much about Churchill and his era (much of it surprising) and enjoyed the book so much that I just made a commitment to an equally long and dense Vol. 2.
After listening to 32 discs, I wish there were a way to follow up by reading an abridged printed version — an abridgment selected by me that I somehow (by wrinkling my nose?) marked as I listened.
Reading this trilogy gives an amazing overview of the first sixty years of the twentieth century in Europe.
So great was my pleasure in their relationship, that I've borrowed a bio of Clementine to learn more.The best part of this book is the preamble (pp 3-108) which gives an overview of WSC's life.
If you haven't watched Dunkirk yet (or even if you have) read these two pages.
Absolutely wonderful work. Brilliantly and engagingly written, covering a staggering amount of material. His grasp of the time period and how it weaves through Churchill's life and actions is astonishing. His painting of the background of events and the way things were is masterful, and of course Churchill himself is fascinating. Highly recommended.
It had been over a thousand years since Alfred the Great had made himself and his countrymen one, and sent them into battle transformed, one in this new exigency, confronted by the mightiest conqueror Europe had ever known England and looked for-- another Alfred, a figure cast in a mold which, by the time of the Dunkirk deliverance, seemed to have been forever lost. England s new leader would have to stand for everything England s decent, civilized establishment had rejected. They viewed Hitler
He was like the lion in Revelation, “the first beast,” with “six wings about him” and “full of eyes within.” He said: “it was the nation and the dwelling all round the globe that had the lion̓ s heart; I had the luck to be called upon to give the roar.” However, the spirit lay dormant within them until he became prime minister and they, kindled by his soaring prose, came to see themselves as he saw them and emerged a people transformed, the admiration of free men everywhere.All his life he was a man of extraordinary personal courage.
How do you begin to review a biography that essentially hits you as one of the best biographies you’ve ever read, of a fully important figure who had so much influence upon the 20th century world?
And the author was not only in full command of his subject, but also in full command of the material and his writing, which is fitting because Winston Churchill was a master of the English language, using it at times as an artist uses a brush and at times as a fencer thrusts with his foil.
The author notes that Churchill has often been identified as a warmonger, but notes that he views the natural state of man as being in conflict with one another, not at peace.
The author points out that Churchill was a man of the Victorian era and exemplified the British Empire.
However, the author also asserts that he was a genius, with ideas coming so quickly that people could not keep up with him and definitely didn't understand his grasp of world events and people.
Not knowing a lot about British history or government, I didn't always understand things about Parliament, elections, peerages, battles , etc but enough to follow the author's storyline.
Perhaps Manchester here is too sympathetic to Churchill, but some blame still should fall on him.There is no doubt that Churchill is one of the greatest men of his time, not only being a soldier, statesman, writer, artist, but a great orator who never wavered from his beliefs, and even when down and out stuck to his convictions with risk to his own persona, finances, etc.
This volume the first in a planned three volume biography, which the first two were completed in Manchester's lifetime, with the third being completed from his notes years later.
Manchester is masterful at setting the scene and context for the creation of Winston Churchill.
One of the better moments is when Manchester points out that Churchill is often thought of the ideal 20th century leader, when in fact he was a Victorian Man summoned to face the problems of the modern world.
I can't help but feel like Manchester was very subtly drawing illusions to England's mythical King Arthur with the first book showing how Churchill through political cunning and knowledge of coming events unsheathed a metaphorical Excalibur only to see him reach sleep in Avalon in the second volume and eventully fulfill the Arthurian prophesy of rising again when England needed its greatest king most.I have read a great many biographies in my life and dare say this is among, if not the, finest portrait of man I have ever read.
Covering the historical situations surrounding the world with an in depth account of the Victorian Era through and beyond WWI.
The details in this book were fascinating especially the social norms and customs of the age.
Details extend in all aspects of the book including the complicated and horrendous unfolding of World War 1.
All in all, one must give credit to the mammoth undertaking of these historical events and the educational fulfillment that it accomplishes.
I will be reading more historical accounts from this author who is now definitely on my radar.
