https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/857528.Call_It_Courage
We are all enchanted by the tales of adventure in the South Sea islands, probably because most of us will only travel there in the pages of the books we read.
They are a mystery to us, their history, their beauty, their people, and that fuels our imagination, that need for the ultimate adventure.
It's a feel good story that has a predictable ending, but it still gives us what we want, to be transported for a few hours to paradise.1941 Newbery Medal Winner.
My 13 year-old son brought this book to me two days ago and said that it is one of his all time favorites.
So I put my novel away, and took the time to read something that my child cares about.
This youngest son of mine is the original intelligent caveman and this gripping adventure goes right to the heart of such a boy.
He gives it his best; and although he is war-torn and weary, he overcomes the challenges and trials that he faces--one step at a time.
Mafatu, the ten-year-old son of a Polynesian chieftan, has always feared the sea because in his toddlerhood he and his mother were swept away by a storm in which his mother lost her life.
That night he is caught in a storm, in which he loses his paddle and all his tools, and he washes up on an island where cannibals are known to live.
He builds a shelter and canoe and chooses to survive; while living there he kills an octopus, a boar, and a shark, and faces the human terror of ritualistic cannibals, barely escaping with his life.
Can he face his fears, learn to accept himself, and survive long enough to make it back home?As me matey Jackie says, “Yes, this 1940 Newbery Award winner certainly has some representation issues.
From the modern perspective, it is interesting to note that Maftu would not have survived his ordeal if he hadn’t mastered the “women’s work” that is scorned by the men of the tribe.The author was well known for his travels to the South Seas and the stories he brought back.
His pictures of Maftu adventures and island life were wonderful.I do think all readers could find something to enjoy in this tale.
I read this while reading middle-grade Newberry honor books for my student, and while this may have been good in the 1940s when it was published, the book definitely shows its age to modern readers.
It's also troublesome for me to teach my student about gender equity if we're reading in the novel that Mafatu, unable to do the manly work of fishing (because he's...
Overall, I can see liking this for the nostalgia factor if it was a book you grew up with, but for new readers, it's probably better to stop combing the Newberry back catalog and look for something a little more recent.
Meh. This is pretty much everything I dislike about what I thought of as "boy" books when I was a kid. It's like something that'd be published in BOY'S LIFE (the Boy Scout magazine). Definitely not better than THE LONG WINTER, which won an Honor that year.
Readable, yes. But the problem is I have read tons of other "castaway" "lost at sea" "living off the elements" books that are way way better. It's like a third rate "Life of Pi". It can easily be read in an hour and a half, though. It's just that with all the great newberry honor books out there.. This one falls flat.
This was a super good book, I couldn't put it down at times!
Due to a tragedy that took his mother when he was a baby, Mafatu has a great distrust of the sea, so one day he takes a small boat and, accompanied by his dog, forces himself to face his fears.
While building a shelter and another boat, he also faces predators and then the return of the cannibals.This slim story is, unfortunately, rather simplistic, and is dramatic only in the way that, say, old Tarzan serials are.
I was disappointed in the illustrations since they are only blue and white and not the beautiful flamboyant colors of island life.
I didn't like the message that peer pressure was important enough to risk one's life over.
I did like the message of if-you-want-something-badly-do-something-about-it, but it did seem that a "don't do this at home" label applied to most of what Mustafa did alone with no instruction.Of course, if I had been a child growing up in the 1940s I probably would have loved this book!
A delightful adventure, and a most deserving winner of the Newbery Award. Ten-year-old Mafatu, a boy from a Polynesian Island tribe, doesn’t seem to measure up to the standards set for being a “man” in his tribe. Most troublesome at all is his fear of the water. How can he grow up to be a powerful, confident, courageous chief if he is afraid to paddle out to sea and go fishing with the other boys? A wonderful tale of overcoming challenges and reaching through barriers to achieve your goals. Every child could benefit from this inspiring read.
Cleanliness: Children's Bad Words - NoneIllustrations - 1 Incident: a sketch of a naked boyReligious & Supernatural - 8 Incidents: “They worshiped courage, those early Polynesians.” Mentions “Moana, the Sea God.” Mentions a “tupapau - a ghost-spirit.” “He called a prayer to Maui, God of the Fishermen.” Mentions demons, referring more to a boy’s internal struggles of fear and cowardice.
A boy finds an idol where the cannibals offer sacrifices.
The boy offers a six-stanza prayer to a god.
A boy sees cannibals dancing in front of an idol.Romance Related - 3 Incidents: “Breast” meaning chest.
This particular copy included the preserved original, beautiful blue and white illustrations.Mafatu, 15 year old son of a Polynesian island chief, has had great loss in his life.
Only Mafatu survived - but was left with nightmares and a fear of the water so great that it impairs his daily life.
With each hurdle crossed, Mafatu becomes more self assured and confident.Anyone that is bullied or has a fear confronting an issue, juvenile or adult alike, would be advised to read this simple but rich story of historical fiction published originally in 1940.
All to prove he has courage.i was not interested in this book because it was slow i never understood it,he had to go to many different places in order to murder creatures that could kill the boy, Mafatu to bring back to the island dead to prove to people that he is not a coward.
plus he stole a spear from an island that he didn't live on to kill the boar and take its tooth.Why Would Mafatu Care About What People Think About Him?Would He Had Needed to kill the shark to face his fear?Why Would He Use The Boar Tooth To Kill The Shark?Why Would People Call Him A Coward After What Happened to his mother?would you kill something to prove courage?i dont have to show courage to anyone because i have my mother
– I give this book to all my nephews, my friend’s kids, and of course to my son as soon as I think they are ready for it.
It is a Polynesian fable told through the eyes of a fifteen year old boy trying to overcome his fears and win the respect of his family and tribe.
Determined to overcome his fears and win the respect of his peers, and most importantly his father, he sets out, alone except for his dog, Uri, and Kivi, his pet albatross.
He sails across the sea and is ship wrecked on a tropical island.
I remember absolutely LOVING this book as a kid - the adventure and the suspense of Mafatu's plight.
Another thing that bothered me about the book was that the two main conflicts were at the beginning and the end (the storm, and the arrival of the eaters-of-men).
I feel like I'm being overly negative of the book, perhaps because I remember loving it so much, so I apologize for that - I just can't seem to find any good in the book right now.
i was glad when this book was over ... sad. it had some good and interesting parts, but then there was a lot of dragging going on. then - suddenly something would happen. the book just wasn't laid out very well. i don't think any of my students will read this book, let alone enjoy it. i could be wrong though.
I was glad when this book was over sad , but true. it had some good and interesting parts, but then there was a lot of dragging going on. Then suddenly something would happen. Then some more dragging and then something would happen and so on! The book just wasn't laid out very well.
A survival story that fans of HATCHET or ISLAND OF THE BLUE DOLPHINS may enjoy. It ages okay, but I'd like a better sense of the cultural research done by the author.
So, though he was the son of the Great Chief of Hikueru, a race of Polynesians who worshipped courage, and he was named Stout Heart, he feared and avoided tha sea, till everyone branded him a coward.
It happened many years ago, but even today the people of Hikueru sing this story and tell it over their evening fires.Plot:The plot was okay, it wasn't long at all though.
I thought overall the plot was pretty good, just lacked in some areas.Writing:I was pleasantly surprised that Armstrong Sperry's writing style is actually good.
The plot definitely lacked depth, but I don't regret reading this book.
He's the son of a warrior and he's a scared boy: scared of the sea, scared of everything.
He is the Boy Who Was Afraid.
Is it a "boys" book?
Maybe, but I think it is a classic because the message reaches into anytime and either gender.
Excellent!"The tide was running out of the lagoon with the sunset in a whispering hum of sound, like the reassuring hush of a mother to her child.
He had found a new belief in himself." —Armstrong Perry, Call it Courage.I think everyone should read it at some point in their lives.
I enjoyed the novel because it was a very fast read and I immediately felt immersed in what was happening.
I think it speaks to our most basic fears; of loneliness and shame.The whole point of the story is to find your own courage in whatever adversity you may find.
Don't expect this novel to be the most beautiful thing you will read, because you will not enjoy it if you overanalyze it.
I think being able to enjoy this book every time I read it speaks to the simple nature of the story and maybe seeing how primal our fears really are.
Armstrong Sperry did a great job on conveying a story in this book.
It was quite inspirational and showed how to prove something, you must do it, however, this book was way too straight forward.
The story would've also been better if they included more of the history of island and their traditions so we could learn more about who the main character really was and get to understand him better.
One of the good sides of the book however was the character development.
Over all, This book had its downside but did a great job on its moral and inspiration.
His extraordinary use of language does for me the same thing that Holling C.
The book itself is a powerful message of a boy who is so ashamed of his lack of courage that he chooses to set off on a dangerous voyage across the sea, riding in a vessel that is much too small to be safe, rather than continue to face the scorn of his people.
Mafatu's journey toward redemption in the eyes of his father and people is truly compelling, and of course that remarkable use by Armstrong Sperry of the English language is the reader's constant companion.
Main Characters: Mafatu, Uri, and KiviSetting: Pacific IslandsPOV: narratorSummary:Mafatu, the main character, is a young Polynesian boy who suffered the death of his mother very early in his life.
Mafatu fears the sea due to his mothers death but throughout the book, Mafatu tries to overcome the tragedy and conquer his fear.
He takes fate into his hands and decides to go out into the sea in search of courage and bravery that will ultimately help him become a warrior and in order to gain the respect of his people and Tavana Nui, his father, the Great Chief of Hikueru.
Overall, it is a wonderful tale of overcoming fear and challenges to achieve your goal, as well as courage and honor.
Call it a (mercifully) short story about a kid who needs to be courageous, so he runs out and does a bunch of stuff that he was totally too scared to do but is somehow magically okay with all of a sudden, after maybe a sentence of "ooh wait I'm scared...
nah, I'm okay!" I dunno, maybe you need to read it as a kid to really fall in love with it, but I found this book impossible to connect to.
Since it was so short, that means I probably skimmed half the book.
This was my moms favorite book when she was young and so she told me to read it.
It's deffinitly one of those books that you never want to end.It keeps you on the edge of your seat the entire time, and it makes you feel like you are there running for your life from bloodthirsty cannibals.Not only is it a great adventure story but it's a leason of getting over your fears and facing them.
So he faces his fear and goes out into the ocean starting his amazing adventure.
Even though this is a young reader I would deffinitly recomend reading it anyway.

This book will entertaing and I would recommend it to students in high school that are looking for a shorter adventure book.
The beginning really explains the reasons why the boy ,Mafatu, leaves his home island.
It shows connections between the human and spiritual world with all the praises to different gods by the young boy.
Mafatu's only friends are his dog and a pet bird that he nutured back to health.
This book also shows how overcoming fear can be your choice and what you do, will determine your legacy.
Overall it was a decent book that showed courage in a young man.
Boy is ridiculed for his fear of the ocean (had killed his mother and almost him when he was little - but I guess you don't get a break just for that!).
Boy sets out into the ocean on his own and somehow finds crazy courage to: survive an ocean journey, survive on an island alone, kill wild a pig, shark, and octopus, escape cannibals, survive an ocean journey home, .
Kind of made finding the courage seem a little too easy.I did use this book as inspiration in my own courage-seeking today - to clean up a dead bunny in our window well.
Blah - it was horrible, but I was brave.
