https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159336.Weep_Not_Child
When he gets to the high school level, it is the first time he has interacted with white people - the monks who teach at the school.
The white man also controls the black tribal village chief.
They would destroy themselves to the end.” As the young boy matures, he is amazed to learn that it wasn’t always this way – village elders remember the time when the white man’s land was their own land.
The main character and the tribal chiefs daughter are in love but the class difference keeps them apart as does his brothers being in the rebellion against men like her father.
Njoroge believes that knowledge of English is the measure of a person's education and that 'our country needs us' (ie educated people), but when his best friend Mwihaki asks him what for, he has no answer for her; he has no idea what concrete benefit will come from his education.This problematisation of language creates a tension, because the book is written in English, clearly rendering Gikuyu dialogue into that language.
Later Njoroge's father, Ngotho, a peaceable man, tells a creation story, which causes his son, Boro, Njoroge's much older half-brother, to get angry with Ngotho and his generation for losing their ancestral, god-given land to the white colonists.
Schedario-repertorio (luoghi, tempi, nomi, titoli, domande)1) Luogo del racconto: Kenya.2) Luogo del racconto, più precisamente: «In a country of ridges, such as Kikuyuland, there are many valleys and small plains»...3) Tempo del racconto: all'inizio della sollevazione anticoloniale dei Mau Mau, quindi inizio anni Cinquanta («No, Mau Mau is not bad.
26 giugno: in Italia dimissioni del primo governo Moro, 22 luglio: secondo governo Moro; ottobre: elezioni generali nel Regno Unito, Harold Wilson primo ministro; Brežnev diventa segretario del Pcus.17) Fantasmatica-mitica-trasfigurata presenza del futuro presidente nel presente della narrazione: «there was growing up in his heart a feeling that the Gikuyu people, whose land had been taken by white men, were no other than the children of Israel about whom he read in the Bible.
This book describes generally the life in Kenya during the Mau Mau revolution and the struggle of the black people to get their freedom and dignity from the English colonist.
Unfortunately, the English colonist tore apart his whole life; hopes,dreams, his unique love and even the unity of his family.In despite of the sadness and the bleak side of the story, I really enjoyed reading Ngugi's first book ever.
The book was beautifully written,  it rejoiced me a lot and made me grateful for all the graces that the Almighty had given me while some people had to fight to get what I have in my life....
I read this book as a child growing up in Liberia, West Africa. I remember loving the language and the rich culture that very similar to my own. I look forward to reading it again as an adult and growing a deeper appreciation for it.
A well developed African story of hope and disappointment set in Kenya during the Mau Mau uprising. Ngugi weaves fiction and nonfiction well to provide both depth of characters and storyline. What I admire most is the sense of realism injected into the story, never a perfect character, rarely an ideal scenario coming to fruition, no perfect ending.
Τα βιβλία άλλωστε του Thiong'o φέρουν για τον τόπο του την ίδια βαρύτητα που είχε για τους Αμερικανούς το μέχρι πρότινος μοναδικό βιβλίο που είχε εκδώσει η Lee. Τέλος, το πολιτικό σκέλος-σχόλιο του συγγραφέα (ο κόπος των ιθαγενών κι η εξίσωσή τους με τα ζώα της φάρμας κτλ.) θα θυμίσουν αρκετά τα Σταφύλια της Οργής του Στάινμπεκ.
Όλα τα παραπάνω είναι σωστά.Το βιβλίο το έπιασα μόλις είδα ότι στο εκδοτικό πρόγραμμα του Καστανιώτη για το 2017 υπάρχει η μετάφραση του Petals of Blood, του βιβλίου δηλαδή που οδήγησε το συγγραφέα σε φυλακή υψίστης ασφαλείας για ένα χρόνο.
Το ιστορικό πλαίσιο δίνεται επαρκώς απ'τον Thiong'o κ αν ο εκάστοτε αναγνώστης βγει απ'το πρόγραμμα του κ ψάξει την ιστορία για μια πιο σφαιρική αντίληψη είναι θεμιτό.
Y tras la lectura y comprensión de todos los sucesos, una no puede evitar una enorme tristeza, tanto por no conocer la historia con anterioridad como por el hecho de que se trata un relato de privaciones y vejaciones constantes, contado por un experimentado narrador con una voz impecable y un gusto exquisito para escribir.
Wa Thiong’o escribe de una forma muy directa, sin sutilezas, pero exprimiendo al máximo el monólogo interno y la sencillez de las intervenciones de los personajes para que el relato adquiera un estilo muy cercano pero cortante, familiar pero rompedor.
3.5 stars.Read without placing it in relevant contexts, this book will seem nothing special.
The writing reminds me of R.
K. Narayan, which if I refuse to think beyond that would put me off.
But there's a reason why the writing of Ngugi's first English novel and R.
K. Narayan's work in English is so simple and direct.
There's a reason why their stories aren't all that special.
They bring to life the first generation of what was to evolve into proper postcolonial literature.
There's power in that.
Maybe it's the lit student in me talking, but you gotta value that power.
Una storia cruda e triste del rapporto conflittuale tra l'uomo bianco e la popolazione locale del Kenya. Il protagonista è un bambino che vuole istruirsi e "riscattare" pacificamente la propria identità culturale - ma in realtà nemmeno quello, lui vuole solo istruirsi. Chi vuole riscattare la popolazione Kenyota è il padre, e il fratello che aderisce a un gruppo di guerriglieri.Finirà male per entrambi.
This was mandatory read back (way back) in secondary school but the struggle in Kenya pervades today's disenfranchised "Africa" resulting in the kidnapping of the "Nigerian Chibok girls" to the west; hijacking of ocean liners by Somalian pirates in the east; economic mismanagement by leadership of most African countries and many more tragic situations which have led to citizens being displaced and corrupt government officials being celebrated.
Weep not, childWeep not, my darlingWith these kisses let me remove your tearsThe Ravening clouds shall not be long victoriousThey shall not long possess the sky The British/French/Germans long since left, but the calibre of today's African leaders are worse than any colonial master.
I am African and I stand by that statement.
Weep Not, Child is a beautiful book about how colonialism in Kenya tears apart families.
This book can also be read in one sitting, which is another of its attributes, because that allows its full emotional impact to work with intensity on the reader.
Ben Okri compared Weep Not, Child to Romeo and Juliet.
By the time I finished reading this novella, I agreed with Okri's assessment, in spite of the two works' clear differences.
Weep Not, Child is a moving story and a great introduction to an important Kenyan writer and to the issues of colonization and the Mau Mau uprising.
This book was a jumbled mess that had a lot of potential. The writer's style was too simple, and the direction of the story was horrible. That's as much critique as I can muster. It was a waste of reading time.
Thiong'o manages something most novelists only strive toward - perfect pacing, character tone, poetic descriptions, complexity hidden in simplicity.
Thiong'o creates a three dimensional chess board, deftly moving his narrative between levels, complicating the apparent straight-forwardness of his storytelling.
Sons are brought low by political events.
I could go on, about how this English Language novel is subverted by the interruption of italics.
How Thiong'o subverts Shakespeare Romeo and Juliet trope, masterfully.
Snidely claiming how all love depends on cowardice - meanwhile showing violence as a redemptive force (brought by and to bear on the white man).Meanwhile, the Mau Mau competes with the Bible for the future soul of Black Kenya...Truly, an amazing book.
*spoiler alert!Ngugi gives us an intimate account of how real people and families were effected by the Mau Mau Rebellion in Kenya in the 1950's and how the same interests of preserving land rights got cast as vastly different and racialized interests, resulting in the deaths of many.
Ngugi's ability to interweave the stories of Mr. Howlands, a white expatriate originally from Great Britain, but who claims Kenya as his home, Jacobo, a black land owner who "sells out" and supports the white cause in the conflict, and Ngotho, a traditional Gikuyu man who believes the prophecy of his people long ago that blacks will reclaim ownership of the land that was stripped from them when white European settlers arrived.
Like most people faced with challenges-this book is all about them and how much dreams are blurred by brutality and how the only people who you think have lost it all still gain the strength to hope for another day.
This is a very good and short novel that addresses the stress and anguish of late colonialism in Kenya. This text is rich on many levels as it deals with hope, despair, injustice, redemption, etc. I'm going to teach this in both African history and World History.
Bleak. Very bleak.
There appears to be some distinction between Africans and blacks, but I'm not sure about this either.There are so many background details - this is set just after the World War I & II, and there's talk about blacks going to fight a white man's war.
The white man makes a law or a rule.
We leave with (view spoiler)[Njoroge bereft, with only his mothers - having contemplated suicide due to Mwihaki rejecting his call to run away from his duty.
A slim book set in Central Kenya during the struggle for independence. I thought it exquisite and devastating. Highly recommend.
One would identify Njoroge as Ngugi's own life and Kamau as his brother -- although their stories are not completely intertwined.
Again, this is based on realities of Africans living in the village during the colonial era in Kenya - highlighting the challenges faced by the locals who find themselves dispossessed of their land, having to pay hut taxes to the new foreigners who had taken everything and having to work for the new white settlers.
I liked the developing love story between Njoroge and Mwihaki, though their fathers never saw eye to eye, - first as innocent kids with love for their newfound opportunity to go to school, and as young adults, although, their love is never realised.
this was my third novel by ngugi, and possibly my least favorite?
don't get me wrong, it's a worthwhile read, but i vastly prefer his later a grain of wheat (amazing!).
that said, ngugi's light story-telling touch works as well as ever-- he renders his characters with a willful naivete that would almost remind me of kurt vonnegut, were it not so free of snark (and full of wonder).
the characters-- though likeable-- are a bit one-dimensional, and i was disappointed at the glimpse of white, colonial kenya (which was one of the big strengths of a grain of wheat).
It may be in part due to my inability to absorb the particular setting of African colonialism, but it seems to me that the whole thing about African literature falls short of what it claims to be.
It always reminds me somewhat of Hemingway hypes.
You hope for the heap of what seems to be treasure passed down from old time, only to find some overrated, overused junks.
It certainly has some value in cultural aspects and flaunts unique perspectives that need to be told.
Like many of Wa Thiong'o's books, this novel also throws many questions about Kenyan Independence and the Mau-Mau, especially in psychological angle.
I am not a fan of Classics but the synopsis caught my interest. It was good in the beginning but then the character soon became dismiss able as the pages turned. My main problem with this book was the lack of characterization and how silly it came across. There was absolutely no direction or anything that motivated me to continue reading. This book only emphasized why I do not read many Classics, cause most of the time I am disappointed with the execution.Oh well it was "okay" but I doubt I would be reading novels by this author.
I am not a fan of Classics but the synopsis caught my interest. It was good in the beginning but then the character soon became dismiss able as the pages turned. My main problem with this book was the lack of characterization and how silly it came across. There was absolutely no direction or anything that motivated me to continue reading. This book only emphasized why I do not read many Classics, cause most of the time I am disappointed with the execution.Oh well it was "okay" but I doubt I would be reading novels by this author.
This is written in a pared-down though poetic style that makes it feel mythic, though the story is very much set in a particular place and time (Kenya, the Mau Mau uprising). It's in some ways a simple story--Romeo and Juliet maybe, as Ben Okri writes in the intro--but in other ways rather complex in its renderings of various divisions in Kenyan society of this period. Even the white characters who wind up on the side of repression and torture are granted their humanity--which in this novel means sadness, disappointment, and loneliness.
Behöver läsa mer av Ngũgĩ innan jag kan säga något om honom - denna var så tydligt en debutroman. Fina punkter och stunder men med många skavanker, särskilt vad gäller karakterisering.Skildringen av förtryck fick mig att tänka på en av Farrokhzads formuleringar: Det enda språk du kan fördöma förgripelsen på är förgriparens språk / och förgriparens språk är ett språk som uppfanns för att rättfärdiga förgripelsen.
The writing style is simple, and Thiong'o is a good storyteller. That said, it seemed disconnected at times and huge gaps occur that you have to fill in yourself. I was hoping to get a bit more information about Kenyan culture from this, but it didn't seem to be what I was hoping for.
Nestāv ne tuvu "A Grain of Wheat" manās acīs: pārāk švaki ieskicēts, pārāk paļaujas uz melodrāmu un arī tēli šeit ir daudz plakātiskāki.
Clearly a first book- after reading Ngũgĩ's childhood memoirs this book clearly had a lot borrowed from his own experiences growing up.
