https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2722413-evernight
Sorry, guys. I deleted this review because I basically explained the WHOLE damn story in it. It was back when I was a shit reviewer. But thank you for all those who read and like it! I love you beautiful beings!
Gee, I'm 'only' 27 and I wonder how on earth I managed to learn how to 'operate' my iPod (that has no wireless connection because that's EXACTLY what I'd want to do on my tiny screen, check my email *eyeroll*) in such a short amount of time.My other problem with the humans is why anybody would think it's a good idea to put a few walking and talking blood banks in the middle of a horde of hungry vamps.
And how come Lucas suddenly learned a few vampire tricks himself?
But hey, I'm one to talk, huh, seeing as I'm about to do the same: The only comparison between the two books I think is appropriate to be made (and the only one I'll ever make) is that while it is Twilight's tagline that says "deeply seductive and extraordinarily suspenseful, Twilight is a love story with bite", Evernight is the book that fits that bill.
Evernight, methinks, has real suspense "in equal parts" with romance.Moving on, as this rant is getting too long-winded and distracting attention from the review itself.Don't let the beginning of this novel get to you.
Really, I enjoyed it much more going into it blind than I would have (view spoiler)[if I'd known there was a twist coming.
Just go into this one cold and enjoy it for what it is.Just a word of warning: even though this book wasn't quite the usual run of the mill PNR, you've still got to deal with a YA romance in the oh-he's-so-hot-and-wonderful-and-if-I-can't-be-with-him-I-think-I'm-going-to-die sort of vein.
(hide spoiler)]Since I pretty regularly fail to take my own advice, I went and dug through the blurbs and reviews for the rest of the books in this series (at least I did finish this book first), and I think I'm just going to quit with this book, even though this book's ending does kind of leave you hanging.
¿Sabéis esa sensación cuando termináis de leer un libro de sí pero no? Pues eso. En general la historia me ha gustado, así como los personajes, perooooo la relación entre Bianca y Lucas me ha parecido 'ajena'; lejana, con unos sentimientos entre ellos que no he logrado sentir. Es más, voy a leer el segundo sólo por Raquel y Baltasar....
In fact, as far as sappy YA paranormal books go, it's not THAT bad.I don't actually know what to do with myself.
If you can imagine that Harry Potter is the dignified, lovable parent and Twilight is the alcoholic but not-abusive-enough-to-warrant-removal parent then Evernight comes out somewhere in between.
Still, the book is not entirely archtypical of a genre so polluted with hastily spat out gibberish.Bianca is actually intelligent.
I don't mean the Wuthering Heights reading kind of intelligence although Wuthering Heights does warrant a mention in this book.
Which is to be expected because Bianca and Lucas are childish and silly.
Evernight, by Claudia Gray, pseudonym of Amy Vincent, starts out with an okay plot, but the choppy writing and barf-y love story make it seem like the worst Twilight rip off possible.The gothy setting combined with the suspicion and eerie-ness of the students are lost on the reader when they realize that the main character, somehow "failed to mention" the minor detail of BEING A VAMPIRE.
She navigates her way through the story with all the deftness and skill of a drunk sea captain steering a flooded ship through a hurricane.
And that makes for one huge disappointment.
Lucas only hesitated for a second. "Bianca, I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.""Lucas?"His eyes met mine. "I love you."   HA. That moment when you realize you love a TOTALLY cliche book that almost all your friends (And most of the community) hates. I literally am laughing right now because, really, what are the odds that everyone hates a book I love. It's crazy. But, frankly, I don't care. And, ya know, I'm almost done with the second and I don't QUITE get what everyone's bitching about.Okay, so, it's
That moment when you realize you love a TOTALLY cliche book that almost all your friends (And most of the community) hates.
Oh, there is a wonderful guy who likes the quirky girl on top of the main boy she will clearly end up with....I'm sorry, but plenty of YA books use this little formula and I don't see near as much hate.
But that's the beauty of an older book-it's like a ghost, people don't care anymore.
Some people liked Lucas very little and thought Balthazar was the one for Bianca-I am inclined to disagree.
I didn't like this book for a few reasons, but the biggest one is probably that it was so...weird.
I mean, like they go through half the book and they make her out like she doesn't know anything about what’s happening at the school, and then BANG, all of a sudden, well she knows everything, and had all the time...
its just weird.
First she's all shy and stuff, but then she's like not, and then she is, and so on.
She's like dreaming about how much she loves him, and she's suppoed to be shy??
It was boring and unreal, even for a fantasy book.
In this case, part way through, we find out that the author has pretty heavily been editing the character's words to keep us from seeing that...(start spoilers)...she's a vampire.
Now, it seemed that the character wasn't editing her own words, because being a vampire is just a way of life for her.
But the author is editing her words, limiting what we see, to trick the reader into thinking she's not a vampire.
I would have enjoyed a book about a girl trying to figure out where she exists in the world of vampires, who's in love with a human boy.
The characters are sweet, secretive, and charming at the same time.
However, once I did I felt that the pairing of these two characters was meant to be!I ended up being surprised twice during this book, which is exceedingly difficult for authors to do with me.
It is very rare for me to be truly surprised.
The fact that this author managed what very few authors do...just enhanced the book for me.I fully recommend reading this book.
I read it in one day, because I simply could not put it down.
I intend to begin the second book in the series tomorrow!
Check...okay, can we stop having popular guy who's liked by everyone in YA books!?(6) Dramas at Prom Night.
Get .A. Life!" I mean, the whole drama with Lucas makes Bianca look like a five years old instead of a teenager.I know.
I'm 10 years older than the targeted audience of this book, still I'm damn sure a lot of teenage girls out there will also find Bianca's behaviors immature and silly.Then we follow Bianca through a series of school dramas, meeting her new roommate and making friends among students.
Evernight is set in a very Vampire Knight setting, and is about a girl who is secretly a vampire (yeah right) who falls in love with a boring, uninteresting, controlling Romeo-wannabe and that's it.
Bianca and Lucas have nothing in common, neither of them have personalities (Oh wait, they are both clichéd and love old movies and books because the author tried to make her teens unique just like any other YA author these days.
so like, Bianca is in love with Lucas...
(This book is 3 1/2 stars worth)Okaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay...WTF WAS THIS??I will try to sum up my reaction in Gif:- FIRST 10 %  I'm patiently waiting for there to be a point in all this......25%... ...35%...  I cant believe this IS A LOVE AT FIRST SIGHT STORY!! ...40%... I have better things to do......50%.... "what...wha..what was THAT??!! she was..she...she was IT all along??"...65%... TELL HIM ALREADY!! ...80%.......Love is in the air!!...95%... HE HAS SKELETONS IN HIS CLOSET???100%AWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW FUCK NOW I JUST HAVE TO BUY THE NEXT BOOK RIGHT??
A newly transferred student, Bianca Olivier, doesn't want to be in Evernight Academy.
When she tries to escape, a mysterious and attractive guy, Lucas Ross, stumbled her way.
They easily get along with each other but he warned her not to get close with him.
Despite his warnings, she's drawn to him and nothing can stop her for being with him.
As their secrets unfold, the connection between them might set apart and loyalties are going to be tested.Unfortunately, I didn't like this book.
Bianca is an immature, reckless, clingy and whiny heroine.
I can't stand her obsession on Lucas as she keeps talking about him.
COW.I've been enjoying the reading I'm doing as research for the agents I'd like to query about my own novel.
And I've read some great surprise endings (the twist in the last Hunger Games novel blew me right out of the water).What I haven't encountered in as long as I can remember is a stunning surprise MIDDLE.I literally jaw-dropped.
Had to run down the hall and tell my husband (since I knew he wouldn't be reading it, so it's not like I was ruining it for him) what this writer had pulled off.
Damn but I hated this series. I found it completely ridiculous! I couldn't even finish the second book! For god's sake the plot is boring, the characters idiotic and the heroine... I want to kill the heroine!Bianca is actually a baby, and I don't mean the fact that she is 16, I mean that she is a naive, whiny, scared little girl who makes one bad decision after another! We also have the "admirers".  Bachelor No1, "Lucas"... Lucas thinks himself a protector! Oh, but he is gorgeous! My cousin is g
I want to kill the heroine!Bianca is actually a baby, and I don't mean the fact that she is 16, I mean that she is a naive, whiny, scared little girl who makes one bad decision after another!
Bachelor No1, "Lucas"...
My cousin is gorgeous too, that does not a hero make!A brainwashed teenager, as ignorant as he is boring!Bachelor No 2 "Balthazar".
The guy is centuries old and he still wants a teenage girl with insecurity issues!The fact that in the second book both of them run from friends and family in order to be together instead of standing their ground kind of tells us what kind of personalities we are reading about!
The romance is schmoopy-lovey-dovey-eyes for no good reason other than the fact that it's instalove, & therefore everyone should be on board with Bianca & Lucas as a central pairing.
This limitation is one of the few design flaws of the iPod. Subsequent models are likely to incorporate some form of wireless connection, and, of course, there's also the iPhone--which we'll cover next week." [...] "Anyone else?" Mr Yee looked around the room and then sighed.
"Yes, Ranulf?""What spirits animate this box?""We've been over this." Putting his hands on Ranulf's desk, Mr Yee slowly said, "No spirits animate any of the machines we've studied in class.

I was having a lot of fun with the world, the characters and the charming love story.Then...chapter 8 happened!Seven chapters into this story, we view Bianca as a shy 16 year old kid.
Bianca is your typical loner, but she was just like your average everyday gal...I always knew this was a vampire book, but the way it was delivered was just...wrong!
I have no idea what the author was trying to accomplish my confusing readers this way, but now I understand where a lot of bad reviews come in.But with that said, I still really just liked this book.
OK!! I am shocked!! I was reading and reading! I reached chapter 7 and then BOOM!! The story was leading to some point but I am not sure I get what is going on! How could Bianca not know that she was a vampire?Ok! She knows but she is confusing me!Another shocker is Chapter 15!! Lucas is a Vampire Hunter!!! I knew something was wrong when he said to Bianca:"Don't ask me to do this. Don't give me that chance." But this I wasn't expecting! Great Book! I liked that there is a character named Dana just like me ;)
When her parents both take teaching positions at Evernight (as if she didn’t already have enough reason to be singled out by the other students) she is reluctantly forced into the world, stuck at this strange gothic academy.
There is a definite “in” crowd at Evernight with her gorgeous, perfect (and kinda bitchy) roommate being one of “them” On her first day (as she contemplates running away) Bianca meets another outcast, Lucas.
I can tell you that I enjoyed the romance, ill-fated lovers and all that and Bianca didn’t annoy me, as some teen heroines tend to do.
Aviso : la reseña tiene un spoiler (no es grave, pero es spoiler al fin) que oculté debidamente.Encontré pocas cosas que me gustaron de este libro, pero son lo suficientemente buenas (desde mi perspectiva, claro está) como para que no pasara a integrar mi lista negra de una sola estrella.
Bianca es una chica de dieciséis años a la que se le ocurre fugarse de la escuela en donde sus padres (que además son profesores en el mismo lugar) la anotaron por su bien, porque ya no sabe en qué idioma decirles que no quiere asistir allí.
Lucas was more interesting to me, he was mysterious like you never knew what was going on in his head.
Bianca and Lucas' relationship seemed believable to me and I liked that even though they shouldnt be together because of what they are that wouldn't stop them.As for the secondary characters I liked Balthazar the best.
He was kind to Bianca from the beginning and stayed her friend even after she choose Lucas.
(not that she was ever going to pick Balthazar).
I want to know more about him and his past so I'm quite interested in the book Claudia Grey is writing about him!!
Compulsively readable. Like, went to go buy the next book that night but they didn't have it at Dolly's...Will drive into SLC tomorrow for the sequel. Is that so wrong?
As their friendship deepens into something more, the school's big dark secret threatens to come between them and change Bianca's life forever.This engaging novel has a big twist about halfway through which I will do my best not to even hint at - it came as a lovely surprise to me, as it will to you too I hope.
Well, I believed some, but.While for the first half of the novel you're completely caught up in the eery creepiness of Evernight - and Bianca's parents - and what the Big Secret could be, the second half, now that the Big Secret's out, drags a bit.
Lucas and Bianca have one quick moment in the forest (cutest moment in the entire book), they chuckle and flirt.
She likes something, Lucas doesn't though.
4. She comes across this amazing brooch, and Lucas buys it for her.
Multiple times in the book the humans in the story have mentioned the fact that the school grounds are just LITTERED with dead squirrels.
Bianca finally later explains that eating humans is like eating a hamburger that punches back.
I'm giving it 2 stars, because I liked the idea of the Black Crosses, and because in the end I did laugh till I had tears in my eyes.
Gray starts out luring readers into believing they are reading a Twilight replica: the bronze-haired boy with chiseled features (yes, she uses the word the words bronze and chiseled) who is way too fast to be normal and such uncanny perception that maybe he can read minds.
Then halfway through the novel, Gray throws in this twist that basically means the entire book up until that point is a lie.
Later in the book there is another plot twist that didn't perturb me as much since it wasn't the protagonist who was lying, but in light of the first twist it still annoyed me.
I wanted to at least be able to like this book, but, alas, it was not to be.
Seriously, I liked the plot.
The way it was written, I was not expecting Bianca to be the vampire, even though I had seen and noted the clues.
So, against my wishes and expectations, it turns out Bianca is the dangerous and damned one.
But the "love" story was downright disgusting after a point and, just, ick!Balthaszar was a more nuanced character that I did really like.
Don't expect much from the sequel, Stargazer, but I'll give it a shot when its released.
Sound vaguely familiar?Bianca spends too much time thinking about Lucas, almost to where I was starting to think is this all there is to this book and then, close to halfway through, the story completely changes direction and from that point on, it takes off and the story is different and exciting.The characters are interesting and intriguing and the twists in the second half of the book are great.
