https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227658.Running_Out_of_Time
I can't believe I forgot this book existed. I remember this from my childhood. Remembering books from that time period always gives me the happiest nostalgic feeling.
This book reminded me a lot of an M. Night Shyamalan movie which I won't name, just in case someone thinks I would be giving away too much of the book's plot. The storylines are kind of similar, but I think that I like the plot twist in this book better than the movie.
M. Shyamalan’s ‘The Village’ has a plotline suspiciously close to Margaret Peterson Haddix’s ‘Running Out of Time.’ A nineteenth century backwoods settlement is completely artificial; we’re actually in the present.
The author of the fabulous ‘Shadow Children’ series has written a novel far superior, not to mention slightly more plausible, than Shyamalan’s humorless clunker of a movie.Since ‘Running Out of Time’ is written for an audience that is willing to suspend disbelief, readers might excuse the lack of planes flying overhead.
Jessie Keyser is a resourceful, yet vulnerable, kid, with the same sources of strength, and the same insecurities, as seventh and eighth graders in the nineteenth, twentieth and twenty-first centuries.
Loved this one! And I swear this is where the idea for The Village came from! I loved that movie too!
Jesse escapes and on her own and has to move through this strange modern world to find help for her village.The only thing I can think of to complain about is that it's sorted as a "science fiction- dystopia".
Guys, Jesse is running about in our own society, which the author is absolutely not going out of her way to criticise.
I think one thing that I like about it as a teenager is that it's NOT a dystopian book but still manages to create that high-tension atmosphere.
The author keeps the pace very brisk but there's still time to develop Jesse and really have her observe our world.
My in-laws live near Conner Prairie, Indiana which is an outdoor living history museum; we had just returned from visiting there when we read this book.
The frontier village of Clifton, Indiana which Haddix describes seems much like the tourist attraction, Conner Prairie, a mid-American country town frozen in 1836.
But what if there were real people in the living history museum?
And not just as live models for the museum...How can such a sinister-sounding story be so good?
Haddix uses the unconventional features of her story's environment, time and circumstances to raise important questions about life, health care, death and who has the right to make critical decisions.
Shame on me for doing some digging.From Wikipedia: Simon & Schuster, publishers of the 1995 young adults' book Running Out of Time by Margaret Peterson Haddix, claimed that the film had stolen ideas from the book.[19] The book had a plot which features a village whose inhabitants are secretly forced to live in the 1830s when the year is actually 1996.
”Jessie wanted to ask so many questions, she couldn’t think where to begin. She wanted to know about the ‘something dangerous,’ but she wanted to understand everything else Ma had told her first. She wanted to watch Pa and Mr. Smyth and the Ruddles and all the other adults in Clifton and see what they were hiding.” I’m not one to begin rampant speculation on a theory. In the end, there’s usually a logical explanation for everything. But in this instance, there are just too many examples to igno
Because a certain movie’s premise sounds an awful like this book.I enter into evidence these examples.
(view spoiler)[That secret is that they aren’t really living in a village in the 1800s; they’re actually living in the present day pretending to live in the 1800s.
(view spoiler)[A group of adults willing participated in the concept to live this way for various reasons, however the real reason the village was founded was kept secret from the adults.
(view spoiler)[Villagers are getting sick and so it’s up to Jessie to bring back the help/medicine they need.
(view spoiler)[The heroine’s beloved is sick and so it’s up to her to bring back the help/medicine he needs.

That's true of "Running out of Time," but also pretty much unavoidable: The point of the book is throwing a character from the 1800's into modern time, and the time described - in terms of fashion, entertainment, and technology - is very much 1996, and will never seem present-day again.
This gives the story a "modern vintage" feel that readers may or may not appreciate.I picked up this book because it was free (or nearly free) at a bag sale, and I was thinking about giving it to a tween girl.
Tweens and teens will likely enjoy it more.
This book is a very quick read, as it is intended for a fairly young audience. With its simple characters and plot, it is not exactly captivating, but I did enjoy the protagonist's commentary on the elements of our time period, which were completely foreign to her. I also like the dual meaning of the title. Many of my students enjoy Haddix's books, and this is one that I will recommend to them.
Due to the outrageous turns of events and the in-depth character developments, this book was a “page turner”, in the truest sense of the word.To begin, the plot and turn of events easily caught me by surprise.
This was one of the many turn of events in the book, but it was definitely the largest.The other thing that made this book interesting was the highly developed characters, mainly Jessie.
Overall, this well-developed personality change made the book that much more interesting.
The interesting plot and well-developed characters really do propel this book to be one of the most unique books I have read.
I liked the premise of this book more than I did the execution. The set up was great, and I felt like I understood the world very well. But the book seemed to fall apart a bit at the end, where things got rushed. I wanted to see a bit more deeper characterization overall. I think that for what it is, it's a solid and enjoyable read though, and would recommend it if you're looking for light entertainment.
This book was really interesting! The idea of a colony of people who thought (for the most part) that they lived in the 1800s was really cool, and Jessie's experiences after escaping were really neat. Everything worked out differently than I thought it might, and there was some untapped potential in the story, but it was a really enjoyable read! The only part I didn't like was Pa's trouble adjusting and psychological problems. But otherwise, a great book!
I like this book because its about a girl who is in New York and she was exploring the city and one day she gets lost and her mom calls her to come home and she gets lost in the city and she has a minimum time to get home so she starts her time and by the time she gets to were she wants to go shes running out of time this is why i like this book.
I remember the first time I read this, I was thirteen and read this book in one day sitting in a hammock during summer. I loved the characters and all the plot twists. This was my first fearful social utopia book and it sparked my interest that I still have today.
One of my faves as a kid. I wonder where my copy went? Anyway, supposedly MPH got super pissed when The Village came out, and she accused M. Night Shamalamadingdong of stealing her story. I have no idea about this. I have never seen The Village. The End.
I was really into historical fiction as a kid, and this was my gateway into dystopia and worlds where the entire society was not to be trusted (instead of just random evil adults). I should probably reread it to see how it holds up.
This is a really enthralling book that keeps you on the edge of your seat:P I absolutely love it and I have read it several times:D
My daughter recommended this book one day in the library.
The only world she knew was living in a cabin with her family in 1840 until her mother confides that it’s really 1996 and she must escape the village to find help for sick kids.
With only a brief knowledge of 1996, Jessie is given the responsibility to discover the ‘new’ world on her own without being caught as well as saving all the sick children from the village.
I can see why my daughter enjoyed this book and why it made an impression in her young mind.
Ooooh, this book gave me the shivers.
It was very well-written and very well-planned.
I found it quite suspenseful, and as I held onto the book tightly, my fingers almost froze with pure terror, even though we're right smack in the middle of summer.Towards the end, when Jessie takes the brave step and decides to call a news conference herself, I was in tears.
I cried all the way until the end.
I was sad and relieved and happy all at once.
It's been a while since I read such a stimulating, nerve-shattering, emotionally touching book.I loved it all the way.
Read with Meri (13) & Bella (11). We loved it!
Holds up fairly well, but try and explain a phone booth to today's kids and they might be as confused as Jessie.
It wasn't a bad book, but pretty much nothing happened.
Forgot about this book until I was cleaning out a closet! Reread it this weekend. I loved it (again)! Definitely think M. Night must have read it too...
This novel managed to entice me with the premise alone, and the writing and character development were able to carry me through an emotionally driven story, filled with anxiety and worry. The ending also got to me, and was able to make me feel that the story had been wrapped up, with a small open end for a possible follow-up.
This book revisits a concept the author has spent much time pondering: How children, and the societies they live in, deal with the concepts of past, future, and how and what to preserve.Jessie lives with her family in 1840 Clifton, a small town tucked in the woods of Indiana.
And why has the town's doctor changed from passing effective pills under the table even as he makes a show of prescribing useless folk remedies to not doling out pills at all?When children in Clifton begin falling prey to a diphtheria epidemic, and the "Quarantine" signs posted by Jessie's mother start disappearing, the puzzles only increase.
I think this book was great the way the author explains the character's personality and the setting.This book is mostly about this girl named Jessie living in a village named Clifton in the 1800's.
The conflict of the story is person vs society because Jessie goes through lots of obstacles in order to help her family get medicine for the disease and meets people who get in her way and try to stop her.I like how the author describes the main character (Jessie) as in her way of confusion and frustration.
I would recommend this book to people who like historical fiction and books about the past.
Jessie's mom urges her to leave Clifton in order to find the cure for this disease called Diphtheria.
She has to figure out how to work telephones and computers to communicate with people in order to explain that her whole town might die because of this deadly disease.
At the same time, Jessie is battling the disease and becoming weaker and weaker.
Will she be able to save her town or will all the people of Clifton die as a result of this devastating disease?
I liked how the author wrote the book but I thought in some parts it was a little confusing.
Honestly I really hate the idea of star ratings for books.
I'm giving this book one star very arbitrarily, because I hate that my profile for some reason tells me what my average rating is and I have no idea what that is supposed to mean?
Am I supposed to be like the Simon Cowell of this personal reading review website and having a low average rating is like a badge of honor for discerning taste?
Do too-high average ratings mean that I'm a simpering, uncritical fool that does not recognize fault in writing.
