https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41887.Uncle_Shelby_s_ABZ_Book
Uncle Shelby's ABZ Book, Shel SilversteinUncle Shelby's ABZ Book, is a satirical alphabet book by Shel Silverstein. First published in 1961, it is sometimes described as "subversive". The cover on some editions of the book read "A primer for adults only" while other editions read "A primer for tender young minds" instead.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دوازدهم ماه آوریل سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: الفبای انگلیسی عمو شلبی: کتاب پایه، ویژه ی ذهنهای جوان و لطیف، اثر: شل سیلور استاین؛ مترجم: رضی خدادادی (هیرمندی)
Uncle Shelby's ABZ Book, Shel SilversteinUncle Shelby's ABZ Book, is a satirical alphabet book by Shel Silverstein.
First published in 1961, it is sometimes described as "subversive".
مصور، شابک: 9646965059؛ فارسی - انگلیسی، موضوع: آموزش الفبای انگلیسی - خنده دار - سده 20 مخلاصه: آموزش‌ الفبای انگلیسی و برای آموزش بزرگسالان و بکارگیری هر یک‌ از حروف در یک‌ کلمه همراه با جملاتی در ارتباط با آن‌ کلمه به‌ صورت شعر یا داستان کوتاه خنده دار است.
ا. شربیانی
But I didn't realize exactly 'how' different at that time.When I got home I announced to my two boys that I had a surprise, a new book, and we'd read it after dinner and bath time.
Difference in appearance, it showed up on the scene with a glossy colorful cover that was more in line with Dr. Seuss books than anything characteristic of Silverstein.
I asked my oldest son---he said that at some point a babysitter had read to him Silverstein's text.
I believe this is the essence of Silverstein's motivation for writing Uncle Shelby's ABz book.
The first book I ever bought with my own money, back when I was about seven years old. Sick, subversive, whimsical, horribly inappropriate, and illustrated with delightfully loose line drawings, as are all of Silverstein's books. My copies has little drawings I made on some of the entries that I took half-seriously, or didn't understand at all.
:))
They might not have a world view, or understand global economics, but they sure as heck understand humor when they see it, and aren't so stupid that they, after reading this book, will think they should scratch angry lions behind their ears, or do any other of the misdeeds suggested in this book.
Does anyone really think children will bury their sisters in the yard after reading this book, as suggested by "H is for Hole?"Have a little faith in a kid's mind.
Shel Silverstein's books are not always meant for children, though I am strongly tempted to give this one to kids. This is the alphabet book uptight parents fear, full of sarcastic, vicious and just plain bad advice for kids. L is for lollipop sure enough, and L is also for lye. If you want a lollipop tell your mom you've drunk all the lye (a little white lye) and when the doctor has pumped out your stomach he'll give you a nice red lollipop. And the alphabet's out of order to book.
Even thought this says "Adults Only" I used to sneak it off the bookshelf and laugh at it when I was a kid (like 6 or 7). I re-read the whole thing when I was in my teens and found it even more hilarious. It's a fun little read, and comes from the very twisted (but very funny) mind of "Uncle Shelby". It's a far cry from his more heartstopping books like "The Giving Tree" and more along the lines of his silly poems - only for adults! Pick it up, you won't be sorry!
This guy is damn funny. I thought Go the fuck to sleep was first of it's kind. But Silverstein has done some wonders for adults to enjoy and to hide deep inside so their children won't see it.
alefyaaaaaaaaaaaaaay amoo shelBketaaB ke age man vaasat bekhoonamghash mikoni:dvaa3 bozorgaasdast e bache nademagar in ke betoonin az pa3 bache he bar Baayllvll
Subversive fun.
This book would be a great book to use for kids in third or fourth grade.
I would assign the kids to write the simplest form of children’s book: an ABC book.
The student could discuss what elements of this book make it a book that is good for older kids and adults to read.
The children could also write a story that is essentially a children’s story but could also but could also be a book for an older audience as well.
If a teacher uses this book they need to preview it and make sure that it is a book that is suitable for the children in the classroom.
Uncle Shelby's ABZ Book is a play on every other ABC book about there.
Every page there is a new letter being talk about, only most of the letters are described in a negative light, such a S is for Stanley the murderer.
This book is defiantly geared more towards adults.
It is extremely sarcastic and most of the sarcasm would not be understood by children.
The entire book looks like it was written in pen just for you and it is a one of a kind look.
I really like this book, however, like I've said before I would not let children read this book til their teenage years.
Delightfully wicked. Although this says "for adults only," in truth, the satirical barbs are not all that terribly different than those he places in his children's poems in books such as "Where the Sidewalk Ends"—it's just that those poems can be understood on two levels, by children and by adults, and these little tidbits…they would only confuse a young child and perhaps lead to untoward behavior.
I LOVE this book! It is extremely funny and not for children. Uncle Shelby is not too fond of children and tries to get them into trouble throughout this primer. From having the alphabet out of order to telling the kids he hopes their parents didn't steal the quarter he stuck on the page, this is the book you never want to fall into your own kid's hands.
Don't listen to the grown ups, children, ALL KIDS WHO READ THIS BOOK GET A FREE PONY!!!! And a parade! And a million dollars, pasted into the back of the book. (Hope your mom didn't take it out and keep it)
Merkin read this to me for our first date. We'd been talking on the phone, and he asked if he could come over and read me a bedtime story. We found a couch in the study section of my dorm, and he read it aloud to me. It was an awesome first date. I'd never seen anything so funny in my life.
Definately not for kids. But I stumbled on a copy as a kid. My sisters eyelashes grew back eventually
In love with it, officially.
maybe someday you can go to Detroit.")One of the jokes was too dark for me--"S is also for Stanley," the crazed murderer who likes to kill small children early Sunday morning, so go climb into your parents' bed because they love that.
I understand that that's not reality for the majority of Americans (I hope), so I'm not judging on people who enjoyed the whole book or laughed at stuff which I found less funny.I think if I were a parent, I might also find a lot of the other jokes less funny as well, but since I think of kids in the abstract, jokes about strangers with lollipops or burying your sister in a hole can still make me laugh.
Uncle Shelbys ABZ book goes over the ABZ’s (switching c and z from the original ABC’s) in a very comedic way.
It has a lot of funny stories along with the different letters.
But, as much as you may want to read this to your kids; too bad.
The ABC’s is also mixed up.
This is an issue if a kid learning the ABC’s reads this because they will get confused and would mix them up.
I thought it was funny and I could not put it down.
Not sure if kids would even understand most the jokes in this book.
"K is for kidnapper, see the nice kidnapper. The kidnapper has ice cream cones. I like vanilla. See the kidnapper has a keen car. Tell the kidnapper that your Daddy has a lots of money. Then maybe he will let you ride in his car"The book is fun read, even though It's not a kind of book I generally read I enjoyed it. The cover suggests that it's for kids, but in reality it's written in a sarcastic manner.
Wow. I mean, huh? I mean sure it's stupid, but it's funnier than I expected. Definitely not a little kid's book, much more adolescent humor. Silly and witty. I'm glad I don't know a whole lot of books like this one though.
The first book I ever read by Shel Silverstein and instantly fell in love with his humor, whit and art!
This book never ceases to crack me up. Definitely not for children, but will delight teens and college students with its dark humor.
A most entertaining disaster.
Parts made me giggle, other parts not so much. Gotta read the whole thing because it's hit or miss until the end.
Good times! Thank you, Uncle Shelby.
So wrong. So right. So good.
I had no idea this book existed! Definitely not meant for kids :)
For the awesome kid in all of us, this delightful children's classic can also be found as a free pdf download. (Wow!)
