https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8205669-wicked-appetite
So she's just like me - except I only have one mysterious, dangerous hunk who fancies me but he can't shag me or we'd lose our Magical Talents.
Anyway, I fancy the "good" guy but I can't shag him 'cos we'd lose our Magical Talents!
Did I already say that?"Anyway, just like Stephanie Plum, I have preposterous adventures, only mine are even more preposterous because they involve Magic!
Soon I'll have heaps of books too because Evanovitch writes them at about one a week, which is easy for her, because apparently they are all the same!
Be vewy, vewy quiet, I'm hunting Stones... or possibly dwawfes!Wicked Appetite is like an episode of Looney Tunes. It's goofy, it's over-the-top, and it's hilarious! Janet Evanovich finally gets her groove back after a long, torturous 'Plum'met into really boring fiction. I first fell in love with Evanovich way back when she was writing weird, wacky romances for Loveswept. Books like Naughty Neighbor and The Rocky Road to Romance marked her as being a class apart, especially in the paperback ro
Envy, Pride, Greed, Gluttony, Lusty, Grumpy, and Sneezy.” “I think some of those were dwarfs,” I said to DieselDiesel tells Lizzy that any person who manages to collect all seven stones will have the power to create hell on earth.
And for fans of Janet Evanovich, like me, this book heralds the return of the non-collaborative, non-Plummy, original and gold-plated queen of the funny romance.
I'll be looking forward to the next book in this series.P.S. I just discovered that Diesel and Carl (the monkey) have previously appeared in the Stephanie Plum novels, and that Diesel, in fact, was a sort-of love interest for Stephanie.
I didn't finish this, I was listening to the audio and stopped about 1/5 of the way in.
The main character is very similar to Stephanie Plum -- except she can cook and has blonde hair.
Stephanie's failed marriage both failed in "comical" ways).
The main character inherits a house -- just like Joe in the Plum series and a main character did in Evanovich's Overboard.
Diesel was just not interesting and seemed to be a combination of Ranger and Joe. Diesel was more interesting in the "in between" Plum novels.
Wulf is also looking for the stones and so Liz is caught in a race against time to discover their whereabouts.I was really looking forward to Wicked Appetite when I first heard about it – I thought it sounded amusing and exciting.
It is very often extremely unfunny and there was not a hint of excitement to be found within the pages.I enjoyed a few things in the book – principle amongst them the description of Liz’s cupcakes, mostly because it made me hungry to eat some of them.
This was a fun series and a nice change in pace. I really liked Diesel from some of the Stephanie Plum short stories so it was nice to see him in his actual element but I have to say, I think I like him and Stephanie together as a team more than Lizzy and him but maybe that is just because I'm more familiar with it, who knows. It was fun seeing Carl though, he was a nice surprise to the story line.
I thought it would be a great new series.Reading this book I kept thinking that either one of her kids or employees wrote this and turned it in under her name, or else she is just tired of writing but likes paychecks.
Instead of more editing, plot, and/or pages Evanovich wastes precious space with a lot of "we got out of the car and climbed a flight of stairs.
She has some 'unmentionable' (aka special/supernatural) ability to find objects and teamed with Diesel they set out to beat Wulf to the punch/save the world/etc.
We've got a badass (almost comic book like) hero out to save the world.
I loved the humor in this book.
I love sexy and fun Diesel, and Wulf seemed interesting.
I think those two are going to be fun to have together.
I love Carl!The only thing I have to say negative about the book is that nothing really happened.
The basis of the story is the seven deadly sins, and the road the author took with it will be interesting.As a side note, after reading some other reviews I realize that this is sort of a spinoff of the Stephanie Plum series, which I have not yet read but am planning on reading soon.
Apparently Diesel and Carl the monkey first appeared in the Stephanie Plum series.
I was familiar with Diesel from the "Between the Numbers" Plum sub-series and I liked many of the Stephanie Plum books anyway, so when I saw that the author was going to be writing a new one with a more-than-hinted-at supernatural angle, I picked it up.
(Forgive the run-on sentence.) Anyway, I have it listed on my "better than I thought it would be shelf" because Evanovich's recent books have not been her best efforts* and I had a lower expectation going into this.
http://www.gelatisscoop.blogspot.com Merged review:I have received a lot of messages and questions about this novel.
And now everything is facaca.”“Your life isn’t out of control,” Diesel said, “It’s expanded.”I know that some are going to say that this is almost a Plum novel without Lulu, but you know what, in my book, Janet Evanovich delivered the goods and entertained me.
And now everything is facaca.”“Your life isn’t out of control,” Diesel said, “It’s expanded.”I know that some are going to say that this is almost a Plum novel without Lulu, but you know what, in my book, Janet Evanovich delivered the goods and entertained me.
What gives?"Me: "Witches."You: "You know there's going to be romance in this story, right?"Me: "Yes, but...it's October.
Out of all the witchy stories out there, you picked a genre you don't like by an author you no longer read?"Me: "YOU DON'T KNOW ME!
Maybe you know me really well and so you're probably surprised by those three stars.
Yes, I did!I used to read the Stephanie Plum novels back in the ‘90’s and I know I loved them then but I also know when I tried to pick 'em back up in the last several years, I couldn’t do it.
I am a huge Stephanie Plum fan, and really wanted to like this book, however it just fell a bit short....Lizzy and Diesel were OK characters, but a little under developed, and I never understood their attraction to each other.....
not sure if I will pick up the next book in the series, but on a positive note it really has nowhere to go but up (hopefully)....*** narration:Lorelei King definitely made this book more enjoyable than it would have been in print; she is the voice of some of my favorite Stephanie Plum and Charley Davidson, so whenever she adds her voice to a book it definitely increases my enjoyment....
definitely a case where the narrator improved the book!
This is the book when you’re looking for a good time and want to read some real funny fluff.Lizzy is a pastry chef who makes some seriously fabulous cupcakes with an average and fairly normal life until she meets Diesel.
And monkeys.” Suffice it to say, the word cupcake appears 125 times in this novel.
Big as in:Now that’s a cupcake.The monkey’s (or unicorn if you’re Wendy :D) name is Carl and, well… Carl is hilarious.
He has a glass eye, half a tail, and he’s apparently a ninja.There’s the obligatory bad guy, Wulf, and the required hot guy, Diesel.
So, in an effort to try a JE novel, without starting with the Plum series, I picked this most recent work.
Sure, I enjoy a fantasy and the opportunity to get away, get involved in a story, but, in my honest opinion, Wicked Appetite is wickedly ridiculous.The characters were silly.
Writing is about scene set up and allowing the reader to use their imagination.Is JE trying to capitalize on the paranormal interest?
Maybe JE is writing for a movie or series pick up?
Don't get me wrong-the narrator is good, it's just that she(obviously) makes Lizzy sound the same as Stephanie and all the other characters sound just like Plum series characters.
This time some supernatural elements were introduced, but writing about the paranormal just does NOT seem to be J.E.'s forte, and in that aspect, as well, the book falls flat.
The book was literally starting to stress me out, because I kept thinking how pristine car after car is being turned into a pig sty by a damn monkey, spilling ketchup and throwing up on the leather seats!?!?!?!
From here her life changes and she's swooped along on an adventure, which turns out to be quite fun and reveals she has certain abilities of the magical kind.There's lots of ridiculous antics and rushing from one place to another (which happened a bit too frequently) an interesting magical mystery to solve, but there are a few additions that I didn't like (such as Carl the monkey!).Everything happens a bit too quickly in "Wicked Appetite", and Lizzy and her friends except everything without as much as a blink.
We, my Mother and sisters, have been sharing Janet Evanovich novels for a while.
Janet Evanovich writes like she writes.
I am comfortable in the fact that I am going to be able to sit in my chair and just chill to a goofy story, laugh at Carl the monkey flipping everyone the bird, something burning down, and a lot of romance and romantic tension throughout the novel.Wicked Appetite was no surprise in content to me.
The plotline was nice and comfortable and fit like one of my favorite bedroom slippers, so it made me happy.
This story was hilarious!
My niggles with the plot would be that the final conflict wasn’t very conflicted, and the element that kept the protagonist and her love interest apart didn’t ring true to me.
They had great chemistry, though, and the madcap, magical adventure was loads of fun.I had many favorite lines, but the passage that goes into, “why wasn’t I clever enough to write that first?” territory is this: You just passed a supermarket!
I want to make sure I have enough Raisin Bran.
I mean, what if I ran out of Raisin Bran in the middle of the night?
Having never read anything by this author, I didn't know what to expect.
This book is drivel and a complete waste of time.
I forgot the main character's name and kept having to check the back of the book.
None of the characters had any personality, what passed for a plot was so thin it could turn sideways and disappear, and the one character who MIGHT have been interesting was given no development or motives.
The main character is bullied by her romance interest, who forces his way into her bed, and at point is thought to have been assaulted and/or raped.
I will not be reading anything else by this author.
This book was trash.
Just horrible.
Must be the first book in Janet Evanovich's new paranormal series.
Lizzie, our phenomenal baker, discovers that she is one of the two "Unmentionables" who can detect magical items when two hunky cousin vie for her help in finding a stone that is related to the deadly sin, Gluttony.
Although it is definitely Evanovich, I found the characters refreshing.
Lizzie is definitely not Stephanie.
(Don't get me wrong, I love you Steph!) And Diesel and Wulf are both hunky guys but Wulf is evil.
Ranger is sketchy, but definitely one of the good guys.
Initial Impressions 9/24/17: The monkeys, Janet? Really? What's with the monkeys in these books? Anyway. I liked Lizzy and I like the new setting (Salem! Totally didn't pick this up on purpose because of that but yay!) but Diesel is really just 75% Ranger, 25% Joe Morelli. He's fun but none of this is very original, although I guess I didn't really expect that. I'll still continue the series. Janet Evanovich's books are fun and a nice brain-break -- perfect for listening while I work!
Wicked Appetite was my first ever Janet Evanovich book, and I can see why her Stephanie Plum novels are so popular! The dialogue is witty, there were several laugh-out-loud moments, and the characters cracked me up! -Jennifer W.O.-
This was hilariously stupid and not in a bad way. I didn't expect this from Evanovich. I definitely laughed out loud at the ridiculousness of it all.
Shades of Queen Betsy!
Kind of a nice change of pace after all the serious books I've been reading.
(At least he isn't masturbating or flinging poo which is far more typical.) The humans were also amusingly eccentric.The world is ours, but has some magic in it.
Not typical magic, though.
I don't know if or when I'll read another.
It would be like having a second bowl of Rocky Road ice cream with peanut butter & chocolate sauce on it.
While that's possibly my favorite dessert (But cheesecake!) one bowl every few months is plenty.
Having rated a couple of the Stephanie Plum series 3 stars by the same author, I didn't have much expectations from this one, nor did I read the summary before borrowing the book from Overdrive but I'm so glad I gave it a shot, I think this was my first paranormal cozy mystery and I did love it.Lizzy & Diesel are 'unmentionables' who come together to prevent Wolf from gathering the charms of Saligia stones.
It's just more light reading with a little element of plot/story forming.
Overall it is one interesting read.Besides, I like the side characters of Glo and Carl.
Rated 3.5 stars
Isto para explicar a curiosidade que sentia em ler alguma coisa dela, apesar de saber que grande quantidade de vendas não corresponde, necessariamente, a qualidade.
Em Portugal, a TopSeller começou a publicar três séries de sua autoria, mas quando comprei este livro na FLL havia apenas duas e a outra tinha começado no 17.º volume, por isso decidi experimentar a série Lizzy & Diesel.
Se este pequeno resumo da história vos pareceu parvo, não queiram saber como tudo isto foi explorado no livro.A verdade é que, se não fosse por teimosia e por o livro não ser muito grande, não o teria terminado.
I’m a huge fan of her Stephanie Plum series (including the supernaturally spiced Between-the-Numbers novellas that this new series is based on) and have wondered for years what a full length paranormal novel from Evanovich would be like.
Familiar in a good way, flirty in a great way, and more fun than urban fantasy ever gets to have!Everything I love about the Stephanie Plum is in the new WICKED APPETITE book: quick fun dialogue, simple yet sharp characterizations, dangerously sexy guys, zany sidekicks, and a main character who is like the best girlfriend you ever had.
I could barely finish this book it was so bad.
I really like Janet Evanovich, but I must admit I was a bit skeptical when I saw she was trying to make a foray into the paranormal romance genre.
This book was terrible.
For the JE loyalists who have read every Stephanie Plum book in the series, this book follows her formula in that series almost exactly.
This one was disappointing and made me feel like JE should just accept that she's peaked, be happy with the money train that is Stephanie Plum, and stop being greedy.
Could call it Paranormal Romance to settle it, although the book wasn't terribly romantic.
I wanted to like this one more than I did - I'm a big fan of Evanovich.
It just felt too forced to me, cute story and cute scenes, but overall so "Cute" it started ruining itself.
I also felt zero chemistry between Diesel and Lizzy, so their romance just wasn't believable to me.
He seemed to show up, they liked each other right away for no big reason, and that's that.
The monkey was fun sometimes, but he didn't give me big kicks either.
