https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22548.The_Dark_Tower_and_Other_Stories
Where was he going with The Dark Tower?? It's maddening! Ah, it started so well.Not all tales in this short story sci-fi collection are equally as good, but most are interesting and the title work alone, unfinished though it be, makes the book worth purchasing.Update: here is a photo of The Dark Tower itself - or, rather, the tower of Cambridge University Library, of which the Dark Tower was an exact replica being built in Othertime:(click for higher resolution)
The Dark Tower I found intriguing, and wished that Lewis had developed and completed it.The Man Born Blind, reminiscent of Poe.
(that threw me for a loop.)After Ten Years, a myth retold, also made me wish it had been completed.
Reading the opening, and gradually realizing where you are and what's going on was exciting.Basically, every story was pretty interesting in its own right, if not polished.
But of course they weren't polished - they were unfinished manuscripts.
I see a lot of people aren't impressed with this work, but obviously Lewis wasn't either, or it would have been published, right?
Excellent book for what it is: a collection of unpublished stories, some finished and some not, by C.S. Lewis. It's quite an interesting read as you discover what could have been, and Lewis had some pretty unusual concepts in here. That said, it's also a little frustrating because you get involved in a story and then it's like— oh, nope. Not finished.That said, the story about the people who keep disappearing on the moon? Loved it. LOVED the twist at the end. I'd reread this in a couple years just for that.
Wow. So sad that The Dark Tower was never finished. But what an interesting look into Lewis' mind and creative process.
If it had read ‘The Dark Tower by H.P. Lovecraft’ I wouldn’t have doubted it for a second. I really enjoyed The Dark Tower’s strangeness and ‘othertime,’ and wish it would have been longer. The other stories were unremarkable.
I wish there was a way to mark a book as unfinished. I read a couple of short stories and started into the dark tower, but, my word, I think it is no bad thing that these remain in their current state of obscurity. How twisted and macabre they are! I think poor Lewis overthought about overthinking sometimes. He rather just thought too much, which is why I am such a fan of many of his works, but golly. These are not my cup of tea.
As explained in the preface, this book is the definitive collection of Lewis’ other fiction books. Combine this with Til We Have Faces, the Narnia books, and the Space Trilogy, and one has all of Lewis’ fiction.This book itself consisted of two uncompleted longer works (‘The Dark Tower’, ‘After Ten Years’) and then four short stories. I thoroughly enjoyed reading all of them—some more than others, but all were great.My favorite was definitely ‘The Dark Tower.’ At around 115 pages, one really beg
Combine this with Til We Have Faces, the Narnia books, and the Space Trilogy, and one has all of Lewis’ fiction.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading all of them—some more than others, but all were great.My favorite was definitely ‘The Dark Tower.’ At around 115 pages, one really begins to get into the storyline and characters.
Nevertheless, the structure and feel of it was Lewis-like, just a little creepier when it came to ‘The Dark Tower.’)The other larger work, ‘After Ten Years’, was interesting as well, although I didn’t enjoy it anywhere near as much as ‘The Dark Tower.’ It’s about the fall of Troy and an ancient marital relationship.
Two of the works were uncompleted, given the burning of manuscripts by Lewis's perhaps fire-happy brother.The Dark Tower - Lovely concept and imagery; I wish it would have been edited, reviewed, and completed.The Man Born Blind - The most abrupt and odd ending to a short story I've yet encountered.
"How can I end this odd story about a blind man trying to find light?
That'll clear it up quite nicely!" The Shoddy Lands - A shoddy short story about a woman only interested in material goods.
I didn't think Lewis had it in him to write so candidly of sex, age, and urges.
Audible was selling this for a couple of dollars one day and I could not pass it up.
These are mostly quirky science fiction stories, some not even completed.
I wonder why no one has tried to finish The Dark Tower, it hangs at the end waiting for completion.
The story of an ugly Helen after Troy was truly fascinating and I like the commentators idea that eventually Lewis would have had Menelaus fall in love all over again with this not so lovely Helen.Lewis had a beautiful mind and Ralph Cosham really captures the feel of the writing, in my opinion.
Not well done, but Lewis abandoned it. It's an interesting look at a story idea that apparently Lewis decided wasn't worth his time.Some of the accompanying short stories are interesting because so untypical of what we've come to expect from Lewis. I'm not sure any of them merited publication, let alone twice--in this collection and in Of Other Worlds. But others have rather thoroughly questioned Walter Hooper's motives and competency as Lewis's "literary executor".
This was so much different from Lewis' other work,and has got me interested more in science fictions stories of time travel, and I found the book fascinating and very interesting. I wish he would have been able to finish The Dark Tower story, and the idea for the story he had for "After Ten Years." I think my favorite out of this whole collection of stories is "The Man Born Blind." This is a book I will definitely return too.
The Dark Tower and Other Stories was a very good read. It was interesting to see how some of his writings developed during his career. I know this is what everyone talks about when reviewing this book, but I am sad that I didn't get to finish the end of The Dark Tower and After Ten Years, which was my favorite by far. If Lewis could have finished his historical fiction, it would have been his masterpiece.
Interesting, but either not by Lewis, or Lewis running on half his cylinders.
Having read much of C.S. Lewis (and now, with this book, all of his fiction), I would place "The Dark Tower" into the category of ephemera, interesting and necessary only for those who have enjoyed his "Perelandra" trilogy.
"The Dark Tower" is unfinished, as are other short stories in this volume.
There are two intriguing science-fiction short stories, both complete, and an unfinished fable based on the story of the siege of Troy.
The two science-fiction stories are about space travel and are revealing, as well.
"The Dark Tower: And Other Stories" by C.S. Lewis contains several short stories and one longer story.
The works are science fiction and future fiction.
There are notes provided to the writing process and where Lewis may have intended to take a particular story from the stopping point.
First, I have a long-term commitment to read everything "Lewis".
The first story was beyond my understanding in many places.
The additional stories were quite entertaining and I did understand them, even the references to ancient cultures and their mythologies.
"The Dark Tower" is one of those books I will revisit at a future date.
They give you a better sense of how these stories came to be published and also provide context for Lewis' original writing of these stories, critical because two of the works in this collection are unfinished.
Yes, unfinished - and normally I hate works that leave you hanging but in this case I think it was definitely worth it to even publish these as they are so creative and fascinating, even in incomplete form.
The unfinished works were actually some of my favorite pieces in here, as well as "The Man Born Blind", a story which I found to have been so interestingly constructed that the form of the writing itself actually really drove home the story's plot.
This is solid stuff, and some of the very short short stories are first rate (I particularly liked Shoddy Land and A Man Born Blind), but the attenuated and abbreviated manuscripts for the titular first story and the last one, After Ten Years, about Menelaos and the now aged Helen, are fascinating and, obviously, being unfinished manuscripts set aside for a later date, inherently frustrating.
The story and unfinished story collection is fascinating for anyone reading ABOUT fiction, planning to write fiction, or interested in Lewis in particular.
Lewis' late wife understood that, but most women do not.
The Man Born Blind was also an interesting short, though it is really more of a conceit than a story.The following two short stories, The Shoddy Lands and Administering Angels, are terrible as a whole and feature some cringe worthy views on women.Forms of Things Unknown, on the other hand, is an understated short that works wonders.
Not a work of genius but great for what it is.The final story, After 10 years, is an interesting introspective, but is too short in its current state to leave much of an impression.
Read the introductions because the editor explains how he came to possess these early chapters of what would have been an interesting, if even mind bending, sci-fi novel.
It's a good read and just be warned it simply stops when the editor ran out of pages to share with us.
There are also a couple of very, very good sci fi short stories and the first half of what also might have been another novel had Lewis finished it.
It's a quick read, overall, but if you're a fan of C.S.Lewis I'd dare.to call this small book a must have
I am not a science fiction-fantasy reader, but I enjoy C. S. Lewis writings--Tales of Narnia and some non-fiction essays--so I wanted to give this a try. The writing is cleverly imaginative, I think, and I thought it displayed some philosophical ideas to think about. The Dark Tower is not all there, as parts of the manuscript were missing. I wonder what Lewis planned to put in those spots or were they just destroyed? I especially liked The Man Born Blind. Considering the issue of how to define light is an interesting topic.
I've always appreciated C. S. Lewis as a Christian author, but this collection of stories left me cold. The stories were imaginative for the 1930s I suppose, and the time travel observances were interesting, but without the story ending (manuscripts lost), it was a disappointment. Just my opinion, of course, but Lewis just didn't cut it as a SciFi writer. Maybe that's why he never submitted these manuscripts for publication. If you're a dyed-in-the-wool C.S. Lewis fan, you'll likely enjoy this book.
Two stories stand out in this collection, The Dark Tower, and After Ten Years.It's amazing to read some of Lewis' later works and think through what could have been, and still could be. One thing that delights me to consider is that Christian authors who have passed may yet be bringing glory to God in heaven - I look forward to arriving there and knowing my God fully along with those who have gone before and given glimpses in their writings.
I grew up reading "The Chronicles of Narnia", and while a teenager I devoured the "Space Trilogy", yet for some reason I'd never thought of their author writing about time travel! Even uncompleted, "The Dark Tower" is riveting, with characteristics of a sci-fi/thriller/adventure story; readers of "Perelandra" and "That Hideous Strength" will note similarities between many of the concepts put forth in "Dark Tower", but the tale itself stands quite well on its own.
DisappointedAs much of a Lewis can as I am, this was a disappointment. Rather a set of well-designed tales, you get some poor stories and parts of others. As the editor admits, some were the result of partial manuscripts or stories that Lewis began, put had no idea how to end. The editor's notes at least explain that the reason for these problems but if he was to have been more honest, it would have better to have not published this as a separate volume at all.
This book is fascinating reading for the true Lewis enthusiast, but it's not for everyone. It contains several complete minor short stories that are quite engaging. But it also contains a couple of uncompleted longer works, which, though quite interesting, might be frustrating to some because of their unfinished condition.
Very interesting read. Happy to read some additional Lewis fiction. If you are a fan of his space science fiction series, you will recognize and enjoy seeing Ransom in the unfinished Dark Tower story. My favorite of the short stories was "Forms of Things Unknown." Love the surprise ending and classical mythology element.
CS Lewis does many things well, but writing three demential female characters is not one of them. Other than that, the ideas in the stories are compelling and his world building is on point as always.
Unfinished manuscripts; unpublished for a reasonI realized midway through that I have read the Dark Tower before. And I realized again, too, the frustration of reading an unfinished story.
This anthology of some of Lewis' unfinished works is interesting because the stories were written by Lewis. But in my opinion, the stories are interesting only because they were written by Lewis; they are not very fascinating in themselves.
Typical LewisSurprises abound with each tale and C.S. Is laughing at the reader! My least favorite was the title story due to it's abrupt end but the rest are true germs! No idea where they were taking me but enjoyed the journey!
