https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137972.The_Last_Vampire
I don’t know what to say first, I usually start by saying the good aspects of a book but in this one there is none.
Not just the writing or the plot or the same characters that are reproduced all the time but even by the font of the book you guys!
HOW CAN IN YOUNG ADULT BOOKS PEOPLE LOVE A PERSON WHOΜ THE BARELY EVEN KNOW?
Anyway, I think I’ve said way too much, but as you probably can tell I disliked the book from the first page to the last.
I first read this book several years ago.
When I first read I was not aware it was actually a series.
Re-reading the book was great.
Sita/Alisa is a great character who is easily like-able.
The one who turned her to what she now is.The past meets present as these three characters draw closer together.
I will let you read the book to find out.
A great book for young adults especially but even adults could enjoy this short series.
While this book does have elements of romance, do not mistake this book for Twilight.
I completely adored this series when I was younger.
Even looking back, I feel that it hit upon some of the classic elements of vampire literature that I love so much--the origin of the Vampire, and the origins of the main character (also a vampire).
Sita is a wonderful heroine--hardcore on account of her age and experience, but she hasn't let that turn her emotionally cold.
The cast is just as wonderful, and I remember crying so much when I read the final book, partly because of the events and partly because the series was over.
Christopher Pike did a brilliant job of bringing events and characterization in a full circle.
Μας αφηγηται με μια ελαφρως καυστικη, καπου καπου χιουμοριστικη νοτα το παρον που βιωνει αλλα με αρκετα flash back στο παρελθον της.Ετσι τα κομματια που ενωνουμε μας βοηθαει να ξεδιαλυνουμε το μυστηριο που την περιβαλλει.
Παρά τις λιγες σελίδες του, καταφερνει να δώσει στον αναγνωστη οσα αυτος μπορει να αποζηταει απο ενα βιβλιο αυτου του είδους, δραση, ερωτα, μυστηριο, δραση, δραση, δραση!
Η Σιτα, αρχαια και υπεροχη με πολυ μικροτερες αναστολες απο τις συνηθισμενες μπαινει στη ζωη μας σκοτωνοντας τον αφελη πατερα του αγοριου που μετεπειτα θα ερωτευτει!!!
Αυτη ειναι η Σιτα, ενδιαφερουσα, εκδικητικη σκληρη κ επιτελους δεν μοιαζει με καμια αλλη, μια κ μοναδικη.
Basically, it's about 600 fewer pages, and so much more goes on...and the writing is worth a damn.First, Pike's main character, a 5000-year-old beautiful vampire named Sita narrates the story in a way that explains all that being a vampire entails from kicking ass to living through history and demonstrating that no matter how inhuman she may be, she can still love and care for things and people.
But something makes me stop."Later, she realizes she loves this man, and she does have sex with him because she believes she's going to be assassinated soon (ps she's not THE last vampire).
Sita sure is full of herself and likes to brag a lot. I like coming at the vampire mythology from India. This book is what sparked my interest in (beautiful) Hinduism back in the day. The story is ok. About as good as you can expect from YA of this era.
Yes, I realize it is written for teens, but give them some credit, they still want something well written without blatant inaccuracies --- Inaccurate you say, it is a vampire novel, and last time I checked they don't exist -- well, near the beginning, Mr. Pike has his main character (who is SOOOO very annoying) say she has read Dracula, has even met Mr. Stoker -- but he had it wrong, because the sunlight is not her mortal enemy ---- READ THE BOOK!!!!
pike??Ok, hated this book, maybe someone else will find something redeeming -- I just couldn't, and I will NOT be adding Christopher Pike to my must read list.
I wish I could remember who recommended this book to me so I could smack them upside the head! What an atrocious, awful book!
I’ve read some reviews that find her over-confidence off-putting, but I think Pike gave us one of the toughest, most badass female characters I’ve ever read, and I’m happy that I had Sita as a literary role model before I was even paying attention to things like female representation.That’s not to say that the representation across the board is good.
On the one hand, this provides a fascinating layer to the story that I’ve never found anywhere else, and it’s one of the things I love about the novels.
i LOVED this book when I was younger, and to this day I pick it up for a quick fun read.
When Twilight became huge, I distanced myself from it because of its similar tones.
I did see the movie of Twilight and the whole time thinking...
Why wasn't "The Last Vampire" ever made into a movie series???
It has much more passion and the story has about 800 times more "meat" (from what I have heard).
I am off to read Twilight so that I can better my comparison, as I have just been bitch slapped by my best friend.
Love you Richelle!!!
I ended up finding this book in my school library as a child, and liking vampire novels the way I did, I decided to read it.I was a little surprised, it was awfully violent during some parts, and for some reason had a slight science fiction feel to me.I liked the book even though it seemed like a little bit of a rough start to a series (as most people don't tend to like Sita/Alisa as a main character due to her self-absorbedness).
When I started reading The Last Vampire, I felt that it had a lot of potential.
Alisa AKA Sita was a very powerful, witty and selfish character which actually made me excited about the book.
I felt that the storyline and the plot lacked a lot; everything was rushed; not to mention the silly love between Sita and Ray. They instantly fell in love and would die for each other, and what?
One time, she described him as a self-centered powerful man, and the next he’s some sad weakling who just wants to die?I can’t believe when I started this book, I was raving about it to my friend; I was very mistaken!Also, there were a lot of details in the book that were totally unnecessary.
The writing.
It makes sense for her to have a strange "voice".
They all have the same voice.
There are no colloquialisms that I know of.Example: I scratch on his window with my hard nails and givehim a scare.
He opens the window and I climb inside.
"I have been writing about you all day."2.
Sure others might like it, but I was hoping for more of a VAMPIRE story.
I don't get the "love story".
they're in love.
(view spoiler)[ He basically forgives her instantly for killing his dad, WTH?!
(hide spoiler)]2 stars for the effort.
my all time favorite series of books.
i don't care what you think.
i am in love with the main character, and her interactions with Krishna inspired a lot of the thoughts i went on to have about life and spirituality.
i have 'maya' tattooed on my wrist.
these books began my life long infatuation with vampires, and NOTHING created since then has come even close!
No movie, no book, no tv show, nothing.
THIS is how a vampire story should be.
honestly, i read ann rice after this, and was sorely disappointed.
but people are stuck on her and her style, what can i say.
3.5 stars for enjoyment factor.Nothing hugely groundbreaking here, but it probably was 20 years ago! Now vampires are a common literary staple. Writing was ok, and the story was entertaining. It's book popcorn: tastes good, eaten before you know it, but not really that filling.I would be a little displeased about the cliffhanger if I didn't have the other books. :)
This was a fun summer read for me. Strong female vampire and I really like her storied history. Also, I kept thinking, "This is the way vampires should be!". Easy reading, fun, and kept me entertained.
But it was fantastic whatever it was.It doesn't read like a traditional YA book because you're being the eyes of a 5,000 year old vampire and it shows.
In fact I think it stands out more because instead of a moldy boy with sparkly semen swooping in to commit statutory rape, it's a chick who's far smarter and probably better looking too.Pike makes Alisa ruthless and I love him for it.
She's a freakin' vampire!And yeah, there is some type of love interest in this book but I think it'll take the reader by surprise.
One such series is The Last Vampire, by Christopher Pike, first published in 1994.
Pike has Sita tell us many of these things though, showing most character development through narration and not action.
Sita is an interesting character who may seem a little too much like Superwoman, but hey, she is a vampire after all and Pike doesn't pull punches when making her powerful.
Pike's Sita is one of the first vampires I can really remember reading about, and for a few years she really kept my attention; I reread the series, especially this first book, often as a teen.
She spoke like a Vulcan, except that she still had the passion of a human, and power far beyond what we know.When I started reading this, I thought it was going to be "another vampire book".
This book predates any vampire book I've ever read (except Bram Stoker's Dracula, of course), and as such, it has a different flavor from books nowadays.
I liked it very much.Also, I loved the author's delving into Hindu religion, instead of Christian.
All the time, people rely on Christian influences when they're talking about vampires.
This was a different and fascinating take on vampirism.
I first read this series as a teen and loved it.
Recently I saw these lying about and decided to give them a re read because I couldn't remember if I finished them or not.So apart from being pretty much the same as I remember and for someone with shitty memory like mine, I realized this wasn't all that.
I mean it was great and nostalgic and I love that this involves Hindu mythology and Indians(Even if Sita isn't brown).
She's ruthless and pragmatic and fearless.But she's also next to perfect and indestructible.
I mean ok, good for you but I'm over it.
This book just didn't hook me in, despite my love for vampire novels.
For a start, i disliked the protagonist because she reminded me of Elena from the Vampire Diaries.
She hardly has any modesty (and she was too bloodthirsty for my liking).
Plus, the more you read, the more tedious it got for me.
Unfortunately, i didn't like the writing style, it was not  exactly  old fashioned, but quite weird, as if i'm reading historical fiction.
I guess this book wasn't for me.
Extremely biased. Read it when I was a kid and enjoyed it a lot. If I read it again, I'd probably not like it as much, but eh whatever. It was tons of fun.
Το 1994 κυκλοφόρησε το πρώτο βιβλίο της σειράς "The Last Vampire" η οποία και έφτασε πλέον και στη χώρα μας, υιοθετώντας όμως τον τίτλο της σύμπτυξης των 8 βιβλίων της σειράς, "Δίψα", που κυκλοφόρησε για πρώτη φορά μόλις τρία χρόνια πριν, με σκοπό προφανώς να ανανεώσει μια ιστορία σε μια εποχή που η πέρασή της έχει ξαναζωντανέψει και παράλληλα, για να προσφέρει στους αναγνώστες πιο χορταστικό υλικό για μελέτη.Το βιβλίο μπορεί εκ πρώτης όψεως να μην σου γεννά μεγάλες προσδοκίες όσο όμως προχωράς στην ανάγνωσή του, εκπλήσσεσαι πραγματικά ευχάριστα.
Oh how I wish that Pike had spent more time crafting the story and the characters.The main character here is Sita - a 5,000 year old vampire who does not originate from Romania, or even the less common but still popular Egypt but India.
Afterwards both Yaksha and Sita want to live so desperately that Krishna decides to spare them and tells them the conditions in which they might do so, but seeing as he's a trickster god at times things don't mash up - Yaksha can live as long as he kills all the other vampires.
This isn’t my first encounter with Alisa I’ve read the series a few times so I knew what to expect because I do remember the story.
I know that she’s just going to get better as the story progresses and we learn more about her past as well as why she is the way she is.It’s been a long time since I’ve read The Last Vampire but it was one of my favorites as a young teen, and even remembers my parents rushing me to the book store to pick up the newest one.
but Alisa is, perhaps, the oldest vampire written about (exception going to some of Rices' characters) and so the powers she has (and gains throughout the series) are understandable - they show power increases (similar to LKH) as opposed to her 'just being that good' (and you can guess to which vampire books I am referring with that statement).
Regardless of how truly the religion was portrayed I think it interesting to have a religious vampire - purely because in so many of the legends anything religious will harm them.Out of all the male companions Sita has, it is Ray that I like the least...
Síta se po světě prochází již nějaký ten pátek.
To by se ale nesměl objevit jistý detektiv, který se až příliš šťourá v jejích osobních záležitostech.
Nemuselo by to dopadnout dobře - pro něj.
Měla by být přeci posledním upírem, tak proč cítí to podivné mrazení v zátylku?Sítu bych mohla nazvat takovým ztělesněním pořádného upíra.
Tihle upíři jsou až příliš morální a na lidech jim většinou záleží.
Zabíjení jim nepřináší většinou žádné uspokojení, ale spíše výčitky svědomí.
Síta je přesným opakem těchto slaďoušků.
Nevíte, tak si přečtěte Posledního upíra.
Samotný tenhle fakt je pro mě hodně překvapující.
Sita is a wonderfully strong character, although--as cliche as this may be--her only flaw is that she cares too much, despite alternating between loving and hating humankind yet this isn't an irritating trait for the reader, as I said before, she's quite the bad ass.
Also equally exciting to me are her action sequences when she unabashedly kicks ass and is basically unparalleled to any pithy mortal that think that they can take her down.My only gripe is that I personally find the rest of the series to increasingly decline in terms of quality, something that I hate admitting, as I adore Pike, Sita, and the concept of his vampires.
I have the first two Thirst volumes that contain the first six books in the series.
I’ve read one of the six and I’m a good way into the second.
I’m kind of on the fence about the series so far.
But there are some things about the writing that kind of pull me out of the story.The series is about a 5000 year old vampire named Alisa (at least that’s her name this decade, originally Sita).
Anyway, the books are quick reads.
Or they will be as I’ve only finished the one so far.
It’s also an easy way to get six more books read.
This is a fun, fast-paced novel with lots of action.
When I read it, I felt as though I was reading the novelization to a film (and this wouldn't be so shabby to see on the big screen).
I love the Indian backstory and origin of the vampires.
With Pike you always get a twist on traditional mythology, and it's what I love about him.
The only complaint I have is that of Ray's character, which seems rather flat.
It is as though he is just a background character, just kinda there.
Maybe this is intentional, but hopefully his character is given more depth as the series progresses.
