https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253813.America_Is_in_the_Heart
"The old world is dying, but a new world is being born. It generates inspiration from the chaos that beats upon us all. The false grandeur and security, the unfulfilled promises and illusory power, the number of the dead and those about to die, will charge the forces of our courage and determination. The old world will die so that the new world [will have] less sacrifice and agony on the living."  Carlos Bulosan is a Filipino author who is considered both a socialist writer and a labor organiz
His writings have a lot of impact for many Asian immigrants who can relate to his chronicles of hardship, sickness and despair as he tried to make a living in America.
It's worth noting that this book's setting is majorly in the Depression era so certain economic strains and struggles that American citizens have experienced then seem to only contribute to the way they blame the Asian immigrants for almost every ills the American public then perceives are their doing.
This is an important book and even though Bulosan has clearly lived a life of impoverished state and abuse, he had also learned to rise above that and become greater than his suffering.
Hard to believe that a mere 70 years ago they were beaten for sport by shitheel Oregonian cops.There isn't as much self-criticism and irony in America Is in the Heart as I normally like in my memoirs.
But when the surrounding circumstances are so brutal (racism, murder, diseases of poverty, oppression of paisano populations), I don't feel like self-criticism is all that necessary.
Bulosan doesn't come off as a martyr, but rather as a human doing his best given the circumstances.There's this tradition in American writing where members of an oppressed group face their situation with some modicum of hope and a belief that there was some power in the sheer force of love.
The only difference is that the white Joad family – the main characters in Grapes - becomes brown Bulosan brothers.
The heroism exhibited by Filipino soldiers fighting side-by-side with their American compatriots changed the impression of Americans with regard to their brown brothers in the Far East.Since one of my favorite novels is Grapes, I thought that all copy-cats will surely fall below my expectations.
However, Wiki says that one of the characters in the book said in the interview that this book is only: "30% autobiography, 40% case history of Pinoy (Filipino immigrant) life in America, and 30% fiction." Again, Bulosan is entitled to use poetic license but he also had a plagiarism case so everything leaves a questionable after thought when I finally closed this book.
The book was first published in 1946 in the US and was only given an attention in the country during the First Quarter Storm (1972), its great relevance during those times gave this biography the attention it needs.
Carlos Bulosan was one our great writers that I believe to be underrated, this book still rings its relevance today, this book showed me tragedies and hardships of the past that we need not to ignore.
I recommend this book to every Filipino, especially to those who have family members who left in search of a greener pasture working to support us, let us not forget their hardships.I’m planning to read his novel “All the Conspirators” this month.
In the midst of reading or right after you have read it, you may conclude that Carlos Bulosan ‘s personal accounts of his childhood experiences as well as his abject misery in America appear to be OVER EXAGERRATED , or far from the reality.
Wright, Carlos Bulosan also dreamed of freedom from the unjust socio-political system.
After all, I thought – since I am not much well-read about the world history- that Black Americans were not the only center of cruelty and discrimination.
My parents both lived in their own provinces; their attitudes are provincial.
America is in the Heart tells the story of Carlos Bulosan, a strongly inspired Filipino peasant who strives to leave his life of poverty behind to fulfill his American dream.
Wanting nothing more than to live a decent life, Bulosan must endure the struggles of being a poor Filipino in America and continue to remain strong to reach his dream.
Bulosan comes into realization that the reason why Amado had run away was because he was tired of living in poverty.
The idea of America as existing and thriving in the heart is what fuels the constant hope that Carlos holds of unity and acceptance for himself and his fellow countrymen.Bulosan’s initial struggles for survival in the Philippines and his final migration to America create a picture of what early United States immigrants endured against the face of racism, the economy, and the cultural climate that eventually led to Japan’s bombing of Pearl Harbor.
Bulosan, who initially could not find a name for the listlessness and anxiety that he feels when confronted with racism, eventually finds a way to reach the hearts of men through his writings and teachings, and a way to let them into his vision of an ideal America.
I think this story could have been INFINITELY better if he had decided to focus on JUST certain parts of his life - rather than trying to put literally every single person, place and thing he ever did from childhood to adulthood.
And then the end was also very powerful from his story as a aspiring writer and adult person.
Like I said in my update for this book, the middle of this book became "and then i went here...
and then that person died...
This book tells the journey of Allos from the Philippines to the United States (where he becomes Carlos) where he suffers from violent economic and racial exploitation running in fear from the savagery of the life he faces until he discovers socialism and communism and labor unions and intellectual white women and he becomes Carl the author while recovering from tuberculosis.
Reading Bulosan is reading not only the biography of a single Filipino coming to grips with a new world of exploitation, it is the history of the whole uprooted Filipino workers who sought to understand the America that was idealized and the America that was reality.
This paper aims to highlight the contradictions in the conception of America in the writings of Bulosan as we will find that the praises he often sings for America, is for an abstract America that is an almost utopian ideal divorced from reality.
This is an autobiography about Carlos Bulosan's life in America. Bulosan was born in the central Philippines in Binalonan. After arriving in America in 1930, at the age of 17, he discovered a new world of violence, racism and oppression.I personally think this is a GREAT text! It is sad of course because it is about the lives of Filipinos in America and their struggles with racist people and even amongst themselves.
It depicts the circumscribed life these migrants had living with the Western States racist laws restricting economic and social activity by Asians, depicts the (often) horrifying working conditions in which these migrants were employed, and describes the nascent labor struggles of these workers to unionize and demand better working conditions.
There are limited texts by Asian migrant workers from the time period, and as a psuedo-ethnography this text has value (while the author is criticized for combining events from several Filipinos lives into the life of a single character, this does not detract from the text's ethnographic merit).However, as a piece of fiction, this text left much to be desired.
It's definitely long and at times hard to sift through and a bit rambling, but important to keep in mind who Bulosan was and when it was written.
He's a really interesting guy, and although we know that parts of this book aren't necessarily taken from his own life (he borrowed from the experiences of his friends and family) it's still a really good insight into this time period and the experience of Filipinos in the United States, a group that doesn't always have its story told as many times as others.
The narration can be inconsistent, and sometimes things are really hard to keep track of, but knowing the overarching plot line and journey isn't really as important as the experiences and thoughts on being in America.
Bulosan, like many, believed in the American Dream but became quickly disenfranchised when he saw "the real America." While I appreciated some of his stories, there were many parts where the "day to day" activities were retold in too much detail.It was also difficult to read because I felt that it "hit too close to home" in many parts.
The history of Filipinos in America is a story of racial discrimination that is not often told in American history but I think it's important that we all have a greater understanding of the discrimination that occurred.
(you can tell it was a bit of a struggle because of how long it took me to read it)The book started out strong - I found the history very interesting and informative, and the overall narrative well put together.
It is a non fiction book, but one can still have a solid narrative or flow within that genre, and it was really lacking here.
So overall, a 2.5 stars, but brought down by my frustration with its flow/purpose/focus :(
When they arrived the pull factors of democracy and freedom taught in their occupied land were not readily available to them.
Told in a story format some of the incidents leave you wanting to know a bit more and the internet is an option.
Particularly interesting were the parts that Seattle played in the story as they really happened and I have been to many of the areas they talked about.
Taught history but in an interesting way that I wanted to keep reading and find out what happened.
I read this novel for a Postcolonial literature class at CU Boulder.
I give it three stars only because it is so raw and honest.
As for the writing, while beautiful at times, the novel was very hard to follow.
I eventually realized that, to continue reading, I would just have to stop caring about one big story and start enjoying the little stories as they came at me.
Absolutely loved part one but after that, the writing is a mess that becomes harder to follow the deeper you get into the book.
Won't read it again.
But won't forget it.
Another Asian American "canon" book. This autobiographical novel centers on the life of a Filipino American transnational and his experiences as a migrant worker traversing the heterogeneous topography of California. I also tend to like this book more every time I read. Bulosan was a true activist in the way that I think academics can totally forget about, being chained to books and not going back to the communities that they might be representing for and/or speaking about... Carlos Bulosan keeps it real!
Reminiscent of Fredrick Douglas' own journey into literacy and social consciousness, this book traces the life of a Filipino poet from a chaotic world on the fringe of American society to a world of poetry and social action. The book records an aspect of American culture that is a blind spot for most of us and will certainly deepen the complexity of anyone's view of America.
This is the very first book about the Filipino American experience that I ever read. Despite certain complexities regarding how "true" its account is as an actual autobiography the book changed my life. Quintessential for students of Asian American Studies, Filipino American Studies, Ethnic Studies as well as for anyone interested in the "immigrant experience".
A breathtaking account of the immigrant "manongs" who endured relentless discrimination and hardship to create the foundations upon which Filipino Americans thrive today. Heartbreaking at almost every turn, but you can't look away
this is a good book showing filipino american history
It offers a good, if limited, guide to what the society is really like, not what it professes to be.""It is my conviction that there are always two nations in every nation: the dominant on-going nation, enchanted with its self-proclaimed virtues, values, and glorious traditions, and another nation that exists on sufferance, half-buried, seldom surfacing, struggling to survive.""It is fair to say that america is not a land of one race or one class of men.
America is in the hearts of men: of a system that knows no sorrow or strife or suffering.
An Important ReadAn important read for Filipino-Americans (especially recent immigrants), for anyone who wants to truly understand the state of the nation during the Great Depression, and for anyone interested in the history of civil rights.As a Filipino-American (recently naturalized), even though I have lived in the US for about 17 years, I was completely unaware of this aspect of our history as Filipinos and Filipino-Americans.
I came to appreciate how lucky I am living at this time in history while realizing that I could have been him or others like him if I had come here just decades earlier.
I know though of authors who have written books on the history of Asian immigration who consider this to be a memoir.
How a book that was written in the 30s of the last century -- which detailed the simultaneous heartbreaking and back-breaking struggle of Filipino farmworkers in the Northwest, and Bulosan's first encounter with fascism -- is still relevant to this day.America is in the Heart is presented as the autobiography of Carlos Bulosan, a Filipino peasant migrant from the Philippines to the U.S. While many facts in the book are refuted, it nonetheless stands as a testimony and a witness to the early experiences of Filipinos in the country.The book is a sweeping account of his life, from growing up poor in the Philippines, in a small village in the northern islands.
At an early age, Allos was becoming more and more aware of the conditions of people like him, which made up the majority of the Philippines -- the peasantry.To read my full review, check out my post here: https://libromance.com/2017/04/25/to-...
The case was tried in court and many technicalities were brought in with it to degrade the lineage and character of the Filipino people.”Although gets very preachy and dragging at times, America Is In The Heart is an essential read to understand the pre-war lives of Filipino laborers in the United States and the racial discrimination they suffered from in connection with the “friendship” between the Philippines and the US.In its own way, Carlo Bulosan’s work is a condemnation of the American imperialism that exploited, among others, the lives of many young Filipinos back then who were promised a good life far from the country yet were treated harshly.
While Filipinos now make up a large portion of residents in the United States, this semi-autobiography is a perfect reminder that things weren’t always like how it is now – even if racism still really exists.
this book was so depressing [but beautiful]here's a quote that sums it up quite well:"I came to know afterward that in many ways it was a crime to be a Filipino in California.
I came to know that the public streets were not free to my people: we were stopped each time these vigilant patrolmen saw us driving a car.
We were suspect each time we were seen with a white woman.
And perhaps it was this narrowing of our life into an island, into a filthy segment of American society, that had driven Filipinos like Doro inward, hating everyone and despising all positive urgencies toward freedom" (121).
Bulosan's literary merits do not emerges from the reading of this memoir (and perhaps there was no intention for them to do so whatsoever) though some passages strikes your attention for their poetic elan.Also, sometimes the narrative is confused and one moment Carlos is trying to establish a Communist unit in Los Angeles and two lines later is on a train to Alaska and at the end of the page is back to San José and is talking to a former prostitute.I guess the book might be 1/4 shorter without losing touch.
I really really really liked this story. I felt more personally connected to the character. I liked the way in which he wrote about his own life. Also he was a migrant worker in the Central Valley for some period of time so I knew the cities that he referenced. I just love how much this man loved America despite all the hardships he faced while being here.
3.5 stars. Finally, a Filipino writer whose prose I like. I especially enjoyed reading about Bulosan's childhood in the Philippines and initial experiences in the U.S. The racism was infuriating. The narrative, however, became disjointed and I lost track of his friends because they were not as distinctly drawn as members of his family. Still, an important read.
