https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85691.My_Life_in_Art
Section Two - Artistic Adolescence.
Section Three - Artistic Youth.
Section Four - Artistic Adulthood.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز چهارم ماه اکتبر سال 1977 میلادیعنوان: زندگی من در هنر؛ نویسنده: کنستانتین استانیسلاوسکی؛ مترجم: علی کشتگر؛ تهران، امیرکبیر، 1355؛ در سی و دو 459 ص؛ موضوع: کنستانتین سرگیویچ استانیسلاوسکی، زاده ی سال 1863 میلادی - درگذشته ی سال 1938 میلادی - سده 20 ممدارس بازیگری امروز دنیا؛ یا حداقل همه ی مدارس بازیگری یکصد سال بگذشته، وامدار کنستانتین استانیسلاوسکی هستند.
استانیسلاوسکی متولد سال 1863 میلادی بودند، و آغاز تلاش ایشان به پایان سده ی نوزدهم برمیگردد، آغازی ست که تا پایان عمر ایشان یعنی تا سال 1938 میلادی ادامه یافت؛ روانش شادمان.
This Grand Master of theatre has many things to teach you. I enjoyed reading it and learned many things.I read a persian translation of this book, by Ali Keshtgar which was published by Amirkabir Pub. (1976. the translator had written a preface for the bookwhich was just a socialist party manifesto about artistic styles. read it as a warning about any dogmatic ideology and its effects on your any resultings ...
For anyone who has an interest in creating art, specifically art in theatre, this is a must read. Directors, actors, scenic designers--there's something here for everyone. His attitude towards creating art is beautiful and refreshing: artistic community, with all the artists working towards the goal of creating art (not showcasing themselves). Stanislavski is humble, honest, and inspiring.
For such an incredible artist, this book was pretty dull.
p.28 – The huge auditorium [of the Bolshoi Theatre] and the thousands of spectators that filled the parquet, galleries and boxes, the drone of human voices that only stopped when the curtain went up and revived in the intermissions, the discordant notes as the orchestra would begin tuning up, the gradually darkening house, and the first bars of music, the rising curtain, the great stage on which men looked like dwarfs, the trapdoors, the fire, the stormy waves painted on canvas, the wrecked property shop, scores of big and little fountains, fish and whales that swam at the bottom of the state sea, caused me to redden, to turn pale, to sweat, to weep, to grow cold, especially when the kidnapped ballet beauty begged the terrible pirate to let her go.
Dvejopi jausmai pabaigus šią knygą.Visų pirma erzino pono aktoriaus/režisieriaus kuklumo stoka.
Įpusėjus veikalą arba pripratau, arba to kuklumo atsirado kažkiek daugiau.Visų antra stebino veikalo žanras.
žmoną (poroje vietų užsimenama, kad kartu vaidino), apie šeimą prasitariama irgi vos vos.
Jis kone akiplėšiškai teškia į purvą tų laikų kultūros politiką ir mane asmeniškai labai stebina, kaip toks veikalas praėjo cenzūrą.
Jis pats buvo buržuazijos atstovas, kultūrininkas, inteligentas - visais aspektais priešingas bolševikų deklaruojamoms vertybėms.
Tad labai įdomu skaityti knygos paskutinius skyrius, kuriuose jis aprašo teatro veiklą 1917-1923 metais ir jausdamasis jau senu žmogumi nenori visos savo patirties nusinešti į kapus ("kad nereikėtų iš naujo atrasti Ameriką").
"Give me a stylish armchair around which I will find an endless number of positions and movements to express my feelings.
Honestly, the sage given in his autobiography is not exclusive to it.
He commented frequently on his frustrations and early pretentiousness, but he did not clearly expatiate his discovered solutions that would aid the young actor.
Again, it's an autobiography, so his goal was to paint his life.
One thing I did learn from the Director's life was to take vivid field trips for one's art.
This advice is for playwrights, directors, and actors.
Гадуур зарагдаад байдаггүй ч уншихыг хүсвэл урлагийн сургуулиудад захиалга өгч болно. Орчуулсан. К.С.Станиславскийн театрын урлагийн онол сургаал практик гээд бүх л зүйлээ тэмдэглэн үлдээсэн жинхэнэ уншууртай ном. Анх 2013 онд уншиж байсан одоо болтол хуудасны мөр бүр нь сэтгэл зүрхнээс огт гардаггүй юм.
Great insights into the process of creation of one of the best Russian theaters of psychological realism and of the Stanislavsky's acting system used by actors all over the world.
Somewhat dull in parts, inspirational in others.
Обязательно к прочтению всем, кто причастен к какому либо творчеству.
no idea why i tried to read this
"My life in art" by K. Stanislavski is one of the unique books upon which I have felt the presence of the author. Anyone who has a relation to art should definitely read it!
Stanislavski was a well-known and well respected actor with the company and was instrumental in its founding.
The group itself was very active in Russia, and, through Stanislavski’s friendship with artists like Tolstoy, Chekov, and Gorki they were able to solicit their plays and have them performed in an appropriate manner throughout Russia.
Stanislavski had definite ideas about the craft of acting which had developed over the years.
This book is not really an autobiography, but more of a history of the Moscow Art Theater.
Some parts of Stanislavski’s personal life are discussed, however, including his friendships with other famous actors and writers, and his conflicts with Nemirovich.
This is the best place to start with Stanislavski. The other books can be easily misconstrued and misinterpreted but this being an account of his life, contextualises and thus clarifies his ideas and practice. From here I would then say go to 'An actor Prepares' and the other books, but definitely make this a foundation stone.
Alternately riveting and a snooze fest. His stpries about Chekhov and how the tumultuous political climate affected the work of the Moscow Art Theatre are fascinating, but his lengthy chapters on how well he played Uncle Vanya I could have done without.
I love this book. I read it for the first time many years ago. I feel such kinship with this great theatrical thinker. He searches himself for the meaning of his life in the art that so absorbs him. One of my favorites, one I go back to time and again.
Incredibly useful advice for a serious actor. Brilliantly paints this mans life, while also imparting critical advice and paths in the realm of technique and theory that will allow the actor not only to grow as an artist, but also as a person.
После этой книги я поняла/почувствовала почему люди хотят быть актерами
This is my homeboy... all the MXAT kiddies had to read about his musings and appreciate. It's good to hear where you come from, even if his teachings were bastardized into american Method acting.
Я не читала много книг о театре, но я читала много биографий, и эта - одна из лучших. Радует, что автор при написании думал о читателе больше, чем о себе :)
Edition irrelevant.2005-06-08
and what a life!
