https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/822989.My_Story
Hardest thing I every had to read.
The first time I read them by choice and since I did not have small children I was only appalled on the most basic level.
Now with a five year old and having to read it again for class, I am tortured.
I want to reach through the pages and choke the mom out.
Also I am furious at the so-called "saviors" who finally after years at looking at evidence of the most heinous abuse finally decided to "risk" their jobs and call the police.
Don't get me started.
I read this for work and I struggled my way through it. This was and still is the hardest book I've ever read. I wish it were a fiction. When I finished reading this mans story, I couldn't have it in my house anymore. I gave it to a friend of mine who is a teacher and asked her to pass it on when she was done. She told me she also struggled to get through it but felt that all teachers should read Dave's story. It's a sad and disgusting example of how so many people failed him.
I have very mixed feelings for this book.
No doubt, this book indeed helped in enhancing my knowledge and understanding of child abuse victims, but it arose several questions in my mind which remained unanswered till the end of the book.
Secondly, the book discusses a lot about david's struggle but there was hardly any mention of his brothers later in the book.
In the book, it is mentioned that David divorced Patsy from whom he had stephen because they were different an dcould not understand each other.
This made me doubt every word of the book I have read.
I almost cried reading what horrible things the mother was doing to her child.
At the beginning his mother was very nice to him she took care of him just like how she takes care of her children.
The story was almost all about child abuse.
The mother use to hit him with very sharp things.
He never felt loved by his mother, he only felt loved by his teachers and people around him.
Eventually the child grow up , he wasn't jut successful but he also dedicated his self to help others.
My Story is a book that you will not be able to put down.
You will wake in the night, wanting to just read the next chapter (then the next, then the next!!).
Anybody who has children will give them extra hugs while reading this book.
It is the true story of a boy mentally and physically abused by his mother from the age of 4 until his rescue.This is truly a story of bravery beyond imagination.
It is hard to imagine a child going through this torture and coming out the other end.You will cry till it hurts.....
Brilliant, brilliant, brilliant!! If there is a book anybody should read it should be this one. Not for the faint-hearted though as some of the things this mother does to her child would be extremely sensitive to some readers as this book explicitly describes how she abuses her son. One cannot believe that somebody could be so cruel to their own child. This book does end on a very good note, though. A MUST read!!
Dave's remarkable story both shocks and offers a message of hope. It is hard to believe that some people do the horrible things they do, especially to vulnerable children. What he went through as a child was worse than hell. What I remember is his lack of self-esteem, his feelings of guilt, which kept haunting him as an adult. He made it. That is an exceptional achievement.
I read this series many years ago.
It's one of the most heart-wrenching stories I have ever read.
The fact that it is a true story is what made me continue the series to see how it all worked out.
It story is a horrible one and it sucked me in the way you have to slow down and look at an accident.
Much of it is written so matter-of-factly yet you feel his pain.
That makes it even harder to bear and read.
Reading you learn firsthand the depths of evil, manipulation, looking the other way, brainwashing, and human resilience.
Considering the topic, I really thought the book was well written. It gave the reader a good idea on how David felt as a child while he was being abused mentally and physically. Once I started reading the book, I could not put it down. This book makes you realize the importance of what we say and doo, and how others interpret those words.
Read this years ago. I cried my eyeballs out. Gut wrenching, heart wrenching and in the end, sweet triumph that still makes you cry. Since reading these 3 books there has never been any other series or single book that has made me cry as much as.I often ponder about rereading these, but I can't bear the thought of the emotional tsunami that it would erupt.
very sad story of a mother's betrayal to her son. but very inspiring how he turned it all around. very addictive read
It's three books that have been compiled into one volume: 'A Child Called It', 'The Lost Boy', and 'A Man Named Dave'; an apparently true account of a man's experience of extreme child abuse at the hands of his sadistic, psychotic alcoholic mother, who overcomes his experiences of trauma against all odds.'A Child Called It', the first book in the series, is stomach churning and absolutely horrific.
However… by the time I was finished the final book in the trilogy, 'A Man Named Dave', I couldn't help wondering how much Pelzer had embellished his recounts of his abuse.
As I read this book, I can’t imagine how a mother could abuse her own flesh and blood to this extent.
Fortunately he turned out to be a selfless man who went on to help the children who were abused.
Kudos to his teachers, the social workers, his foster parents who have helped him move on with his new life.
The book serves as a good reminder to parents that we should never cross the line when it comes to disciplining the children.
This trilogy is such a powerful and gut wrenching tale of a man who had one of the most darkest childhoods in the U.S. We all know there are stories of children who have had it worse but just reading this one will actually break you down emotionally.
I liked the breaks in the tales to represent the transition of growing up.
Truly a triumphant and inspirational and moving tale of how strong the human spirit can fight the odds.Definitely a must read.
I enjoyed it so much that I have read the trilogy more than once.
The first part of the book is about the author’s misery, fear and how the abuse impacted on his life as he grew up, his struggle to develop meaningful relationships with his mother, father and siblings and for how many years he was misunderstood.
I can’t believe that his mother can do such cruel act and badly abused him.
I can’t believe that all has been told is true, that it really happened.) The second one highlights the trauma of and confusion of being passed from one foster home to another as he was removed from the family home.
This is another one of those books where I say it is difficult to like.But this is for another reason.I have no doubt that some of the things reported by the memoirist actually happened, but the focus on the first book is the torture, and the focus on the subsequent two books in this anthology is also the childhood torture even though the focus should be on the life he was living at the time as an adult.Pelzer is a very savvy businessman and knows what sells.
He also knows how to sell himself.

I read these while in middle and high school.
They made my heart HURT!
The author was later on Oprah, and the book sky-rocketed.
I cannot say that this was a book I enjoyed reading, but it was sonething I feel as though had to be read.
You cannot learn from the mistakes of the past, if you do not know what they are.
These books were hard to read emotional, but were written well.
Full of description and feeling, your heart goes out to this little boy as he grows up and stands tall even after everything he has been forced to endure.
I agree with the previous review. This was on of the hardest books I had to read. Not because of the writting, but because of the content. The things this man had to go through as a child ripped at my heart. There was one point I actually had to stop reading for a while because I just felt awful for him. While this isn't the regular type of book I read, I'm glad I did. While I may not run across a child in those circumstances to help, it makes me love and appreciate my son even more.
I would highly recommend this book. It is a very depressing book that tells a story of a young boy that gets abused by his alcoholic mother. It was all about this author's childhood gone horrible with the extreme abuse, the torture and suffering. The author described everything he went through, all the pain he had to go through, how he felt and everything.This book was a hard one to read yet I couldn't put it down.
This book brought tears to my eyes. Explaining child abuse in a way that I have never imagined before. I feel like it has to be spread and everybody has to read it so their voice reaches societies. And I found it inspiring how things have changed in his life, triumph after a long-hard battle with suffer and starve. Writer did good job making me feel what David has gone through as if it were me. I still have un-answered questions of why his mother would treat him the way she did.
A hard terrible story of survival by one small defenseless boy whom nobody seemed to notice being tortured and starved by his sick mother. The following books tell of his life subsequent to his horrific childhood and escape from his psychopathic mother.
This book is so sad. The boy gets abused too much. If you read this i think you would feel bad and start crying like i did. I personally reccommend this book to every one. And to think that this is real and there is a kid out there that is getting abused like this one.:-(
a real life horror story that is told simply and straightforward. dave's childhood was "lost" . . .one can't help but compare their own relationship to their family as one reads this. i'm so very, very thankful that i had been blessed with loving parents.
Shocking - violent but not angry. This story shows how a child can grow to adapt to the most sickening abuse, and then as an adult, embody the things he wished he saw in others growing up. Admirable - and without ego.
Such a compelling story as much as "The Mother"'s behaviour disgusted and revolted me, Dave's strength and determination inspired me. Many a time I was moved to tears throughout this book. Definitely a must read for anyone!!!
Finished this trilogy. A very tough read, but could not put it down. It's hard to believe that a parent would treat a child like this & nog bed held responsible for it. Hopefully things have changed in the last 30 years. A very strong story of survival.
Amazing story! I read before I even had children and I was sobbing uncontrollably which made my husband ask why I kept reading, I just couldn't put it down. Hard to believe there are monsters like his mother out there!!!
Heart warming and touching. As a child from an abusive home it helped to me to see what others have gone through. As a school employee you see children daily and have no idea sometimes just what they endure. You may possibly be the only positive person they encounter.
Sociopathic serial killers are created from less abuse than he endured...the fact that he actually dealt with the abuse, became an incredibly generous member of society and stopped the cycle of abuse is just incredible. Harrowing stuff indeed.
