https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15993203-the-dark-days-club
In 1812, Prinny had been regent for one year. Britain was on the brink of war with America, and in its tenth year of almost continuous war with France and its emperor, Napoleon Bonaparte. None of these countries, however, knew there was another, even older war being waged. Alison Goodman did not disappoint.In some ways, this book reminds me of Donnelly's These Shallow Graves - the setting, the mystery that emerges, and the heroine who is strong-willed but feels true to the time - though I think
Alison Goodman did not disappoint.In some ways, this book reminds me of Donnelly's These Shallow Graves - the setting, the mystery that emerges, and the heroine who is strong-willed but feels true to the time - though I think Goodman's work is even better written and more layered.
And there is a paranormal twist.What I like most about Goodman is that her ideas truly feel fresh.
Rather than running with the ideas of others, I always feel like she brings something new to the genres she writes in.
London, late April 1812: a month that had seen violent civil unrest, savage battles on the Continent, and the rumblings of aggression from the new American nation. It was also the month in which Queen Charlotte—after a two-year hiatus—returned to the practice of holding drawing rooms for the presentation of young ladies into high society. A battleground of a different kind. My goodness, this book was delightful! It's got everything I like! Historical romance? Check! Magic? Check! Murder?! Check
And boy was it fun to read.Young Lady Helen is about to make her debut in society - presented to the Queen, no less, when people start disappearing.
She behaves as befitting a young lady of her era, and despite the book's blurb of will her intelligence and headstrong curiosity wind up leading them into a death trap, I did not find her TSTL in the least.The problem I have with most Regency novels is that the main female character often mistakes bitchiness for independence.
Until she meets the mysterious and infamous Lord Carlston, a man dangerous yet alluring, who will be her guide to a hidden world, full of foul creatures that threaten mankind.
Helen doesn't know whether she should trust the Dark Days Club.
Her rational part keeps repeating that she is a lady, and has no business with secret clubs, that her Reclaimer powers are a burden and not a call that must be answered.
Alison Goodman's attention to every detail and the thorough investigation she has conducted are truly astonishing, she has left nothing in chance.
Holy moly, this book was so great. Amazing research, really fun characters and such an original idea. I read it because I am going on tour with Alison Goodman and now I'm just going to meet her and fangirl and she's going to be like "who are you, please go away."
It's no surprise that this book is terrific--every Allison Goodman story includes a world that comes alive in a way few books do.
Paranormal Regency London shimmers with whirling silk skirts and is bound by careful decorum, yet our heroine finds herself defying everything she's been taught when she experiences powerful magic for the first time and is drawn into a web of intrigue and danger.I'm surprised to find that I do have a couple of reservations about the book, so I need some time to sort out my feelings.
Review to come.
My favorite thing about  The Dark Days Club is the historical accuracy.
The rest of the book follows Lady Helen.
Lady Helen is preparing to be presented to the queen, something her uncle hopes to go well so she secures a husband this season.
Lady Helen has so much going on preparing for her presentation when one of the house maids goes missing.
Dark rumors follow Lord Carlston making him a bit of an interesting character.
There is an author’s note provided at the end explaining the research that went into  The Dark Days Club.
You can still marry, if that is your wish, and lead a mostly comfortable life.Or you can fight demons.To Lady Helen, it is not an easy choice, and she struggles with it for the entire book.
Every time she thinks she has figured out her destiny and is about to make the final decision, something or someone comes along and messes with her mind again.I’m not surprised this doesn’t have more readers.
Except, one must admit that Lord Carlston’s situation is an extraordinary one and there is more to the story than we were told and made to believe.This was my first Alison Goodman book and, ladies and gents, I am impressed.
ماذا لو قلت لك أن بيننا أبالسة، وحوش شيطانية بشكل بشر، يعيشون بيننا وتحسبهم منا، مهمتهم إشاعة الفحش والعداء والدم والطاقة السلبية، فهذا ما يمنحهم قوتهملتتعرف علي المزيد..ننتقل إلي بريطانيا ، ربيع 1812حيث الفتيات المجتمع الراقي بين التطريز وحفلات التقديمفي اجواء جين اوستن الفيكتورية الثرية، تأتي تلك الرواية الأنيقةنادي الايام المظلمة *** الحكـــاية ***الملكة تقيم عرض التقديم لفتيات المجتمع الراقي بعد توقفها لسنتين منذ سقوط الملك جورج الثالث في انتكاسة الجنون وهيلين، فتاة في الثامنة عشر مدعوة له ل
مألوفا أيه، بيقولكDark Days..ربما يقصد بذلك الوقت ، 1812 ، شيئا كنابوليون بونابرت وحروبه..أو شيئا أخطرولكن أليس هذا ما يحدث دائما؟لم يكن هتلر أخرهم بالطبع...وحتي الأن المصائب دائما تأتي من تلك الخلفيات العسكريةحقا، الا يبدو لك الوصف مألوفا؟ولكن ماذا ستفعل فتاة كالليدي هيلين في مثل ذلك النادي؟"أحيانا لا يوجد أختيار جيد" “Sometimes there is no good choice.”
3.5*Maybe it's because I just wasn't in the mood for it, but I found this to be so so slow. It had a great atmosphere, great characters, great historical aspects, but I just felt like I was being dragged along for an unnecessary amount of time. *I received an advanced reader copy of this book from Indigo Books & Music Inc. in exchange for an honest review*
I love the historical aspect (which the author has clearly done a good amount of research on), the romance (I ship it), the engaging plot (it’s creative and kinda creepy), the mystery (did not see any of that coming), the paranormal aspect (some seriously weird shit), and the characters (Helen, while not perfect, was pretty badass – especially for a woman in the 1800s).It starts out rather slow, but by a quarter in, it gets way better.
It’s lovely to see that she gets more of a fighting spirit as the book progresses.In addition, she cares about her servants, particularly Darby.
When worlds collide - the glittering world of Regency London, and the shadowy world of demons - Helen's life will never be the same.You all know how much I love adult historical romance novels.
This book is set during the same time as many of those historical romance novels - Regency London, the 1800s.
Lady Helen is reluctant to join (which is so reasonable), and it's respectable that Lord Carlston does not push her.I've seen some people asking if this book is similar to Susan Dennard's debut trilogy, but I personally don't think so.
Historical fiction/ fantasy, Australian author whose previous books I love, beautiful tempting cover - what more is there to ask for?I enjoyed this one very much.
Someone described it as Regency romance meets Buffy and that is not far off the truth.
Alison Goodman is a big Regency fan and it shows.
The author manages to make her modest and unassuming as a good girl from that period would be, but underneath she is much, much more.
I am looking forward to the next in the trilogy.Highly recommended for anyone who likes some fantasy and mystery in their historical romance.
2.5 starsRounded up for old times' sake, because I was mostly bored by the novel.This story is simultaneously well written and yet so incredibly slow.
Goodman is just so good at writing historical details and manners, and her characters are all over the age of 18, there is some fornicating and pornographic cards included in the story.
I would have liked the novel with more smut, humor and romance and some mystery instead of the whole boring paranormal deal.Not interested in revisiting or reading a sequel.P.S. I hope to not hear/read a word "miniature" for a long time.
Actual rating: 3.5  Look at the picture below source It is Alison Goodman at the Jane Austen Festival. She is a great fan of Regency era and while writing her book she did not only researched the era but had an experience living in the Regency era. Quote:"I checked the historical weather reports, read military and crime accounts in The Times, made notes on the phases of the moon, perused the fashion plates in La Belle Assemblée, studied numerous eighteenth- and nineteenth-century museum exhibi
To imagine a girl of Regency era fighting demons is not an easy task, especially if you are well aware of the position young ladies were in at the time.
Though, Helen will have a choice in the other matter: whether to accept her unique powers for fighting demons or to reject them.
I'd say that it was a fresh view on a well known mythology and at times a rather terrifying one, giving the story a more believable angle.Of course, what historical book goes without romance.
As for me, I am ready for the next amazing historical fiction book to come and knock me off my feet.
After reading what this book was about I thought for sure it was going to have fight scenes in every chapter and demons galore.
Instead, our main character, Helen, was slowly submerged into this world over the span of the entire book.
I loved the main character Helen and how curious and witty she was.
She has a lot expected of her from her family and society in general.I'm really looking forward to reading the next book!(view spoiler)[There were definitely a lot of questions raised about Lord Carlston that we still don't know about.
Demons walk among society, sucking the life force and energy out of unsuspecting humans (quite literally) and Lady Helen is one of the few people who are able to do something about it so our heroine is whisked away into secrets and danger, whilst having to deal with an Aunt who is dragging her along to frivolous parties and making polite conversation with other nobles.The world building in this is fantastic.
As I said, there are many details in this novel and the research Goodman has undertaken is clear and I feel like this made the first portion of the book drag on a little.
This is a fantastic historical fantasy which I thoroughly enjoyed.
There is a great heroine, Lady Helen, whose housemaid goes missing.
Instead of wallowing in a world of society parties and marrying a suitable Duke, Helen opts to find out what has happened to her.
Especially as she and the housemaid had a good relationship and are close.
She gets involved with Lord Carlston with a view to asking for his help and embarks on a thrill ride that includes magic and demons.
Additionally, what are the secrets in Helen's family?
A great read that is well plotted and full of intrigue.
An ARC of this title was provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review. My thoughts are my own. This review can also be found at The Starry-Eyed Revue.Did you enjoy  Buffy the Vampire Slayer ? Do you like Regency era fiction? Then hold on to your bonnets because you are going to loooove this book! It really is an incredible cross between the two, with Lady Helen battling demons in her petticoats, while also trying to maintain her reputation as a well-bred lady.There's also a Chosen
But she's also clever and sneaky and stronger than she appears, so you don't want to cross her if you can help it.I rather enjoyed reading as Helen attempted to preserve a certain sense of propriety, even in her dealings with The Dark Days Clubs and the demons they fought.
And yet Helen cannot resist the pull to do something about the demons that plague her world.There's also the magnetic pull of the enigmatic ne'er-do-well who brings her into the folds of The Dark Days Club.
It's made me want to re-read Eon/Eona to revisit another world that she makes truly breathtaking.This book was plain fabulous!
When Helen asks for an explanation Andrew explains that 3 years ago Lord Carlston murdered his wife.
In some way.Helen and her Aunt run into Lord Carlston.
Most of the time Andrew is out and the two don't interact a lot.When I first read about Carlston I felt for him.
It was interesting to read about the demons and the abilities that Carlston and Helen possess.
You do not find out what happened to Carlston's wife and why he has been gone for the past 3 years.The most interesting aspect about the demon's was that Helen actually had a choice in joining the Dark Day's Club.
A Regency London infiltrated by demons in human guise with only a small band of dedicated warriors able to detect and fight them!
Lady Helen soon finds herself torn between two worlds, one where she can be a devoted wife and society lady or a darker more dangerous one where she must learn to be brave and strong.
Lady Helen is a complex character who has always had to hide her intelligence and quick wit in society and it will be interesting to watch her develop during the series (and to see if she succumbs to the Earl's charms!).
Not many well-bred ladies accused of that, are there?Also interesting is Goodman's obvious determination not to wholly embrace the status quo for thoughts and behaviors of gently-reared ladies of the time.Even in steampunk, with a multitude of high tech gadgets and gender equality, we frequently see our heroines brandishing umbrellas and the like, b/c it's consistent with the ideal.
But almost immediately, Goodman has our heroine snickering to herself over some porcelain shoe-shaped contrivance used by ladies to "relieve themselves" when they must wait forever and ever for their name to be called at one of the queen's drawing room introductions.
A copy of this novel was provided by Harper Collins Australia for review.I’d heard a lot of good things about this author’s other books, so I jumped at the chance to read and review Lady Helen and the Dark Days Club.
Except that I knew by the end of the first chapter that we were not meant to be.Because I like lists, and there are a few things about this book that were off for me, here are some weird/unlikeable things about Lady Helen and the Dark Days Club:1) The writing style.
Her struggles made her character more real.I can't wait to read the second book where, hopefully, Helen will be more invested in the secret society and finally lerns to fight like a true Reclaimer.I love that Alison Goodman wrote both her series in times that are hard and not accepting to women, but menaged to create interesting and strong heroines, which are always in some ways defiant of the set society.It took me awhile to warm toward Lord Carlston.
My dearest friends, I am convinced that Buffy the Vampire Slayer + Pride and Prejudice and Zombies had a book baby and named her:  The Dark Days Club. BEHOLD LADY HELEN WREXHALL:      Bio: eighteen; avid reader; curious cat; die-hard romantic; assumes the strength of two grown men when necessary; rebellious; loyal friend; witty; no filter.Seeking: Answers surrounding the mysterious death of her parents and a man that loves unconditionally, and isn't in a rush to get married.      I PRESENT TO Y
Bio: eighteen; avid reader; curious cat; die-hard romantic; assumes the strength of two grown men when necessary; rebellious; loyal friend; witty; no filter.Seeking: Answers surrounding the mysterious death of her parents and a man that loves unconditionally, and isn't in a rush to get married.
(I actually don't know what da heck he is seeking because he's so goddamn mysterious.) 
This book was jammed packed with paranormal activity, mysterious murders, wonderful romance, a lot of pride, A LOT of prejudices, and a whole lot of action.For the love of Regency, do yourself a favour and READ.
WrensReads Review:I absolutely loved this book.The world building was so unique and beautiful.
Is there a reason why they are both drawn to her?Helen realizes that there is more to the story of her mother the traitor.
“You have far more courage than you think you do.” Helen realizes that there is a different world out there that she is suppose to be apart of.
There isn't really a love triangle; but you do end up questioning who you want her to end up with.
It isn't really focused on the love-aspect of it.
I took a while to get through this book because I loved it right from the beginning and I wanted to savor it.
I adored Lady Helen from page 1.
She's smart and so logical while in the middle of an illogical situation.
Lord Carlston was enigmatic and perhaps unintentionally swoony, but I just couldn't get enough of the two of them together.
I have a theory and since nothing was completely revealed, I'm still going to think I'm right.
There better be at least one more book and as soon as I'm able to, I'm going to get it in my greedy hands.
I see why both Eon: Dragoneye Reborn and The Dark Days Club could be too slow or detailed for some people, but to me it's quite remarkable to see how much research was done in order to write something realistic when it comes to the setting.
Slow beginning aside The Dark Days Club is a good book and I liked it as much as Eon, if not more.
I do think that the only thing it lacked was...that "something more" that makes you truly love a book.
Lady Helen had a hilarious slapstick comedy feel to it, but set in the regency period.
For example, it was hilarious seeing the tall dark and handsome Lord Carlston flip, fight and flail over multiple deceivers and their whips, while everyone stands on and observes in fascination.
I'm actually quite curious to see where her character goes, especially with what happens towards the end of the novel.I also liked Lord Carlston's character, and how he was conflicted with his decisions.
Overall, I was pretty impressed with Lady Helen and the Dark Days Club, despite it's slow beginning and weird tentacle sex demons.
You really, really should.This was my first read by Alison Goodman and since Eon & Eona have released, I've heard nothing but amazing things about her books.I can totally see why.Guys, the WRITING.
I haven't read a lot of books in the Regency Era, but in the general aspect where propriety is a real issue, I have read.
I love such a good female relationship and it warms my heart to know that Darby would do anything for Lady Helen and keep all her secrets, no matter what.Also, very little romance.
So read this.(also, no, this wasn't anything like Something Strange and Deadly.)--Two thingsOne, this book is fucking brilliant.
Allison Goodman is a master at depicting 18th century London in all its glory!
The detailed imagery and scenes, to the slow burning chemistry between our two main characters, to the detailed descriptions of gowns and carriages, loved it all.
The ending was just great, leaving book one enough closure, but knowing there's a whole heck more than can be done in this new world Goodman has created.
I love Lady Helen as a main character because she is kind and generous, but also very strong and independent.
Gave me goosebumps when they would stare at each other LOL!
