https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/592737.Joseph_Smith_the_Prophet
By the time Madsen is done painting his portrait, the Mormon Prophet seems more a Greek statue than a human.When I was a green LDS missionary in rural Maine, my trainer introduced me to this collection of lectures.
So I was primed to relish these lectures.Madsen is candid at times, especially about Joseph's introduction of the practice of polygamy.
There is much of Joseph Smith's history that Madsen doesn't cover, or makes no attempt to be objective about.
But as a cultural sampling of how endeared Joseph Smith's memory is to contemporary Mormons, I say don't pass it up.
As I believing member of the mormon church I loved this book, but after reading Richard Lyman's Rough Stone Rolling, it's obvious that Truman Madsen decided not to delve in to the less faith promoting details of Joseph's life. The book does a great job of promoting the image Joseph Smith that the LDS church teaches, but is leaves out major themes and incidents from Joseph's life that. I'd recommend Rough Stone Rolling for anyone interested in a more historically accurate look at Joseph Smith's life.
My testimony of the prophet Joseph Smith was not quite complete until I read and listened to this several years ago.
The experiences and life of the prophet are captured in a way only Brother Madsen can do it.
Both he and Joseph Smith are legends in church history.
I know without reservation that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God. Reading the book will only strengthen your resolve to be more Christlike, appreciate what the prophet went through to restore the truth to the earth, and give you desires to build the Kingdom of God upon the earth.
This is a great book given to me by a wonderful friend for my birthday.
My father is good friends with Truman and so I took interest in reading Truman's writings.
I loved reading the lectures on Joseph Smith.
I enjoyed how he broke down the spiritual gifts the prophet had possessed and also the personality traits of the prophet.
The other part that I enjoyed is that the book is full of footnotes that expounds even further the dept of information Truman acquired.
I give this book a thumbs up.
This is a profound book about Joseph Smith.
It captures, better than any other book I know, the greatness of Joseph Smith and his largeness of spirit.
The reader learns insights into his character traits and personality.
Rather, we revere him as the first prophet of the latter days.
We revere him for having restored the full gospel with its saving ordinances.
In the book, readers may see a more accurate picture of who Joseph Smith was and gain a meritorious appreciation for the role he played and the many hardships he endured to accomplish his vital calling.
A really great book that contains oodles of information about the Prophet Joseph Smith.
The writing style is easy-going-- not sterile research language-- and all the great little insights and tidbits from the Prophet's life helped me visualize him as a real person.
The only flaw I found with the book is that it couldn't possibly hold as much information as I wanted.
When I would read about a particular experience or quotation from Joseph Smith, I would wonder, "Well, what happened then?" or "What were the implications on Person X, Y, and Z when he made that statement?" I guess I need the comprehensive guide to Latter-Day Saint Church history...
I read this book recommended by my dad and was pleased with the insights and testimonies presented by Madsen.
It is not an exhaustive history of Joseph Smith (nor does Madsen present it as such) but reviews/discusses various roles in which the prophet was called to serve in his lifetime.
In the introduction, Madsen states that we still wait for the "definitive" work on Joseph Smith.
Madsens's book certainly accomplishes what he desires: that it will "move others to look not simply at Joseph Smith but through him to the Master--and, with those insights, to take a searching look at themselves."
This book is adapted/transcribed from eight really excellent lectures given by Truman G. Madsen about different aspects of Joseph Smith and his life. I heard the lectures on my mission and really, really liked them and wanted to see the sources for the quotations. The eight lectures can be read fairly quickly, but pondering and really understanding the depths of what is being communicated in them takes a lot more reflection.Its an excellent book, and a powerful and meaningful tribute to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I really enjoyed it.
I liked the book overall as it had some very interesting quotes in it; however, Madsen's approach to Joseph Smith ends up being (for lack of a better way to say this) quasi idolization of the prophet. When he continually says things like "Joseph was the life of the party", or praises Joseph Smith for his physical strength, the credibility of this book diminished. Is it important for a prophet of God to be "the life of the party"? How is this relevant to any prophet's calling and mission?
Maybe not as technical or in depth as could be, but Truman Madsen excells because you can sense the love he has for the prophet and feel that he wants to share and instill the same for the prophet in the listener.
If you liked the lectures, you will like the book better. There are several little inaccuracies in the lectures, quotes that aren't quite word for word, etc. He fixes all those in the book, great read, great reference.
I first read the book several years ago and loved it. I recently listened to audio version with Truman Madsen giving the book as a series of lectures. It was even better than reading it.
I'm grateful for the Prophet Joseph Smith, his life, his sacrifices, his example, his faithfulness, and all the good that he brought into the world.
10).""Throughout his life the Prophet had important things to say about the power of the evil one, but he never said the evil one was as powerful as the living God. He knew both.
29).""The Prophet's home life with Emma included prayers three times a day, morning, noon, and night.
The Prophet jumped to his feet and said to Emma, 'I knew the Lord would answer my prayer.' He shared and shared until he was utterly impoverished (p.
This was a great follow up to reading Saints Vol. 1 earlier this year. My largest complaint is that this book wasn't long enough, but given that it was initially a lecture series I suppose it's a good length for that. I really learned a lot from Madsen about many things that I've wondered about when reading other accounts of the prophet as well as about things I'd never even wondered about. I will definitely want to read/listen to more of his work. This was a very faith and testimony building work.
This is a wonderful set of lectures about the Prophet, Joseph Smith. What a wonderful and foreordained soul he was for the great Work he brought forth. I listed to the audio of these lectures. I am fond of Joseph’s capacity to develop the attributes of faith and faithfulness and goodness. He was flawed just like any, but the Lord magnified him in magnificent ways. What a great example for all to follow.
Want to know more about Joseph Smith but don't want to take him off a pedestal? Look no further! Madsen finds the best faith promoting stories about Joseph Smith and somehow manages to spin controversial instances into some of Joseph's finest hours. If you just can't get enough of your "Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith" manual, this will keep your testimony in check.
Wonderful review of many parts of the personality, character and life of Joseph Smith. Joseph was humble and teachable and through that grew from a farm-boy of 14 years old at the time of the First Vision, to truly an instrument for great good in the Hands of God.
Want to know if the Mormon church is true? Study reliable, documented sources on the life and teachings of the prophet Joseph Smith. Madsen’s research and love for Joseph are inspiring. Absolutely loved listening to these lectures.
This was a fantastic lecture series on the prophet. It was entertaining and factual. I heard some stories I’d never heard before and gained insight on ones I had. I expected it to take a week or more to listen to, but I found myself unable to turn it off until I finished!
Love this series of lectures from Truman G. Madsen! Learn so much about the Prophet Joseph every time I listen to these!
This book was everything - just what my soul needed.
Not particularly many pages in this book. Yet, good information dealing with the Prophet Joseph Smith.
I enjoyed reading this well-researched and detailed sketch of the prophet Joseph Smith.
Definitely not a comprehensive history of JS. Meant to faith promote rather than inform.
I listened to the audio book, and the talks are original. Excellent history on Joseph Smith. So much information I plan on going back and listening to certain sections again.
This is an LDS Classic which every Mormon should read! I loved learning things about the Prophet Joseph Smith I had never heard before.
So much to love about this book!
Eight wonderful lectures on the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith, given by the late Truman G. Madsen. I listened to this on audio CD while I was serving my mission, and it was a great experience.
Plato may or may not deserve the reputation of being the greatest philosopher of the western world, which has been reiterated through many generations, but I say that Joseph Smith, as an instrument for receiving and transmitting God's word, was more profound than Plato (p.
But clearly the prayer presupposes that something more is to come.' Then he said, 'There's also that language in the Book of Acts about the 'restitution of all things.' This man is an expert on the Dead Sea Scrolls.
If the restorer was a Joseph named Smith, the world must wait for 'that prophet who is to come,' who is to restore all things (p.
Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, also known as Mormons or LDS, revere Joseph Smith as a modern-day prophet.
What followed was a vision of God and Jesus Christ, the translation of additional scriptures to join with the Bible, and the establishment of a Christian church which has enjoyed exponential and worldwide growth ever since then.
This book is a look at Joseph Smith, his life and personality, which grew from Truman Madsen's original lectures at BYU Education Week.
