https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6330.The_Best_of_Roald_Dahl
This book is collection of 20 stories of Roald Dahl. Longest Story is ‘Claud’s Dog’ and Shortest Story is ‘Dip in the pool’. Here are some brief points, I wish to say for now, but I am emphatically going to talk about this book and his writing in greater detail later ! -His stories are very offbeat and of different styles.-This writer gave me goosebumps many times.-These stories lingered on my mind for long.-His stories are full of twists and turns.-I could not put it down in between.-Unexpected ends are common.-Language is very captivating.-Its exotic and enticing.-It touched me. `
This may be the best collection of short stories I've ever read.
I read twisted.)I've always been a huge fan of Dahl's kids' books.
I'm guessing this one.)As masterful as Dahl is with novels, he's perfected the short story as an art form.
As it continues, though, his male characters get in on the fun.My faves: The Visitor, The Great Switcheroo, Parson's Pleasure, Royal Jelly, Lamb to the Slaughter and William and Mary.Finding a new author is like falling in love.
Finding a new branch of an old one?
Falling in love with an old friend.
There is no darker, funnier writer than Roald Dahl.
His children's stories were the original series of unfortunate events.
(Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, James and the Giant Peach, etc.) In the 60's, Alfred Hitchcock had a television series, Alfred Hitchcock presents, in which he used many of the stories found in this anthology.
(Tarantino's contribution)Dahl is as creepy in his descriptions as any "horror" writer to date.
Like a brilliant comedian that holds you for ten minutes until a great punchline, Dahl's punch is straight to your gut.My personal favorite stories are The Visitor and The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar.
It's true that nearly all writing reveals a great deal about the person behind the words, but it's especially true in Roald Dahl's case because all his stories have more or less the same tone: classy, stylish, and gruesome.
Instead of good little Charlie Bucket, he gives us three-dimensional nightmares, like glutton Augustus Gloop, all grown up, and Willy Wonka, if he hadn't dedicated his life to chocolate.
(You know, come to think of it, Roald Dahl probably was Uncle Oswald with the brains of Willy Wonka.
Just look at photos of him.)My only beef with this volume is the chunk of "Claud's Dog" stories near the end.
Every story was good, except one. That's not bad considering in most short story collections there are usually several examples one could wipe their arse with. Not the case here. Dahl shows that he can be a twisted bastard. Just look at the shit-eating grin on the cover. If he can put dick flavored candy in Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (snozzberries are dicks), he must definitely have a high degree of smart-assery going inside his head. Enjoy!
This was the most suprising read I have had in a long while. Because I know Roald Dahl as a childrens author and loved all of the fantastical stories the twits, matilda and so on, I was pleasntly suprised to re-discover him as an adult. These tales of adult pleasure and fantasy really knocked my socks off! The last story I recall vividly as the last story in the Tatintino flick "Four Rooms" I highly reccomend this light hearted read as a grest series of bedtime stories.
I've read this book per request of Hendrickje over at bookcrossing.com.
She wants to give this book to her daughter as a present for Sinterklaas.
I've read Roald Dahl's stories many times before and it's always enjoyable, even though I already know the outcome.
I especially love Lamb to the slaughter, but I'm starting to really like the other stories too.
Roald Dahl's stories are timeless, and make us think about things we rarely think about (unless your philosophically inclined).
An enjoyable read and now I'm going to share it with Hendrickje.
I took it with me from the Bookcrossing meeting at Castricum this year.
This quote gives hints to the reader on how her next victim (Mr.Billy Weaver) is going to be 'taken care of'.(The way up to heaven) : “It is really extraordinary how in certain people a simple apprehension about a thing like catching a train can grow into a serious obsession.” This is my favourite quote because it sums up Mrs. Foster's personality which is something that I can definitely relate to.
(The way up to heaven) : My favourite character in this short story is Mrs. Foster.
dahl was a writer who clearly loved telling a good story, and when you read this collection there's no escaping the feeling that dahl had immense fun when wrote these stories.
this collection also serves as a fascinating study in the evolution of a writer.
dahl's craft and perspective grows and shifts over the course of the collection such that the writer who penned the first story is in many ways not the one who penned the last.
as i've said before, if you think you don't like short stories, try to reading some dahl.
Roald Dahl was the quintessential story teller of all time.
It's sad to think that there will never be another new Dahl story.
This passage particularly struck me from his story Georgy Porgy and I share, "I spend many hours each day playing with sentences.
Now and again I try to put a really big one right next to a very small one in such a way that the big one, turning slowly, will make the small one spin so fast that it hums.
Very tricky, that."I especially love the stories 'The Way up to Heaven' and 'Skin'.If you haven't already, you must read this book!
I hadn't read short stories in a long while, and was reminded of the unique joy of these little single-serving packages of fiction — particularly the first batch of these short stories.
These stories are really about the final twist — which is often shocking and brilliant.
Having said that, the lead-up to these twists gets overly long in many cases, particularly in the later stories (the book is organized chronologically).
Still, the first half of this book is full of little gems — some of the best and most twisted short stories you could ever hope to read.
A set of stories with fascinating, yet twisted endings. It's hard to think that the same person has written a lot of innocent fiction like the BFG, Matilda, and all the kids' stories!
after reading this book I believe Roald Dahl could have been besties with Edgar Allen Poe
eggsellent
Roald Dahl (September 13, 1916 to November 23, 1990) was a British author who penned 19 children's books over his decades-long writing career. In 1953 he published the best-selling story collection Someone Like You and married actress Patricia Neal. He published the popular book James and the Giant Peach in 1961. In 1964 he released another highly successful work, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, which was later adapted for two films.
Needless to say, very quirky. Surprisingly, there are some WW II stories amongst the group.
I will hide major spoilers but I cannot review the stories without talking on some important things that others might consider as spoilers.
But one thing leads to an another and they go off on a small adventure that sorta ends with (view spoiler)[ each one getting a girl for the night........I guess?
2. Man From The South [Rating: 5/5]I loved this short story.
This is a story for (view spoiler)[vegans (hide spoiler)].
I loved the story and the ending.
I didn't recognize the author by name, but when I turned to the back cover, he was introduced as the creator of Charlie and the chocolate factory.
This is one of the most beautifully written set of short stories I have ever read.
They are mysterious, thrilling, and have twists and turns that defy everything the story has started with.
When I opened the goodreads page of the book, I wasn't surprised to see a rating of above 4.
The book deserves it.
And this experience literally shattered my prejudism about authors and books.
A great reading experience.
Must read.
The pros: loved Roald Dahl as a kid and this book didn’t disappoint as a grown up version. My favorite stories was about the boy and the turtle and the sound machine. The cons: Some chapters made me feel super uncomfortable, very akin to Larry David’s sense of humor and Dahl uses questionable language to describe some of his characters. Also- as a former vegetarian it was hard to read the Vegetarian short story.
Adult stories by Roald Dahl... as opposed to his kids stories that I might enjoy more as an adult than I did then. This is a great collection. Ashley, a friend of mine used to read these aloud when we were camping in Colorado. I have an amusing memory of a group of adults sitting around a fire listening to one. She said she was tired and could not finish the one she was on. And there was revolt- "No you have to!!!" -like a bunch of kids. heh heh. A must have.
Though many probably associate Dahl with his children's books (James and the Giant Peach, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory), these very adult, often dark, short stories are a true delight. It's no wonder that Hitchock used "A Dip in the Pool" for a "Hitchcock Presents" episode. Each story comes with an O'Henry-esque punch to it at the end that left me chuckling and/or surprised. I find these stories fun to read aloud during roadtrips - a refreshing break from music.
The first three quarters of this short story collection were awesome. Dahl is gleefully wicked and fun to read. The last third I couldn't quite make it through. The later stories seemed less subtle, more forced. I knew reading them that something awful was probably coming, but instead of making me want to know what it was, they just made me squirm. The first part is well worth the purchase though.
Hooray! Hooray for the whole old damn old world! I keep wreaking havoc and then having to suffer for it but OH MAN. There's stuff out there I can't even get close to with my magical fuck-up powers and ROALD DAHL IS OBV ONE OF THEM. Good on you, sir. You are making everything better all the time.
Some stories I really liked, some I barely cared for. In the end the thing I found a little tireseome was that every story ended with some character getting their comeuppance. These stories would be excellent aloud.
I have loved Roald Dahl since childhood (Matilda! The Witches!) and I love introducing his short adult fiction to my students. "Lamb to the Slaughter" and "The Landlady" are some of my favorites for irony.
The perfect book for the Roald Dahl fan, but best for sipping rather than gulping.
I' m not sure what to think about Mr Dahl. He' s a mystery to me. Mystery is good - I think.
This one, JH
funny and provocative. great book for walking a slow dog.
The best of Roald Dahl (paper back) পরকাশক- পেঙগুইনমুদরিত মূলয- ৩৯৯ টাকা একজন দূরধরষ ফাইটার জেট পাইলট, দবিতীয় বিশবযুদধের সময় যিনি হয়ে উঠেছিলেন শতরু শিবিরের তরাস, অরজন করেছিলেন উইং কমানডরের পদ, এমন এক জাঁদরেল বযকতিততবের পকষে কি সমভব সারথক শিশু সাহিতয রচনা? কিংবা মনভোলানো ছোটগলপ? হয়ত সমভব। এমন দূরধরষ সেনা আধিকারিকই লিখেছিলেন ‘charlie and the chocolate factory’এর মতো শিশুসাহিতয। তিনি রোয়াল ডাল। পাঠককূলের কাছে মূলত তিনি charlie and the chocolate factory’ , ‘ matilda’ এর মতো শিশুসাহিতযের সৃষটিকরতা। ক

