https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71150.The_Night_Battles
This book had a bit of an uphill battle against expectations: I've been hearing about it for years before I finally got around to reading it, and I already knew the rather amazing central focus.
But it's central conceit is really amazing: it's a study of a group of peasants in Fruili who called themselves benandanti, most easily translated as "do-gooders." These benandanti were "born with the caul" (when a piece of membrane covers the newborn's head), an event which destined them to a period of service as what essentially amounts to an anti-witch.
By the end, the 'night battles' of the benandanti had been assimilated into the idea of the witches's sabbath.
Over a very long period of time, this interaction slowly turns a very Christian cult into a devilish coven of witches convening at a sabbat fighting against God, and therefore against the Church.
Of course, this aspect of the book is essential for scholars of the Italian folklore of the time, but it can be more than a little tedious for someone just interested in one of the more seminal texts in the development of what we now call “microhistory.” While this might be difficult for someone with a less-than-scholarly interest in this material, it is nonetheless a careful and very important study that deserves the attention it has garnered.
One common belief was particularly extreme – a man named Moduco, addressing the inquisitors in 1580, explained it: "I am a benandanti because I go with the others to fight four times a year, that is during the Ember Days, at night; I go invisibly in spirit and the body remains behind; we go forth in the service of Christ…[we fight the witches of the devil] we with bundles of fennel and they with sorghum stalks." Many other self-proclaimed benandanti made identical claims, right down to the fennel and sorghum.
Apparently there were some people in Northern Europe who made similar claims, except they said they were werewolves who fought witches for the harvest.
quando vedo su un banco di libreria uno di quei tomi di centinaia di pagine, con titoli a sensazione
In the 16th and 17th century a small group of people believed they left their bodies to fight in an astral war on behalf of God. Whether they were insane, mistaken or somehow right, the Church saw them as Satanists. This book is a terribly interesting examination of how the Church trampled individual spirituality and attempted to explain Pagan experiences with its own cosmology and morality. Carlo Ginzburg's research is distilled into very readable and accessible prose.
This new identity was imposed, according to Ginzburg, by the inquisitors who used leading questions and other devices such as fear to convince the accused benandanti into altering their confessions to fit the new model of witchcraft, which can be traced through the confession transcripts.
Chapter one introduces the benandanti, their beliefs, and the inquisitors; chapter two describes the benandanti who associate with the dead and traces possible links of origin; chapter three returns to the benandanti and the inquisitors, and to the evolution of the benandanti identity; and chapter four sees the conclusion of the benandanti fitting themselves into the accepted mold of witchcraft.
Confirms that even for historians “bad” witches are more interesting than “good” witches."Anna la Rossa was trying, it would appear, to alleviate her own and her family's poverty by exploiting an extremely common but also insatiable desire, the longing to know something about the fate of a departed loved one (and linked with the hope of life beyond the tomb), mingled inextricably with the instinctive inability to think of a dead human being without restoring to it the life it no longer possessed.
But this desire is tinged with remorse: remorse for not having lived up to what those beings had expected from us in life, here both alleviated and accentuated by the thought that there might be a way to do something for them, to directly better their otherworldly lot." -p.
34"Even the excommunicated eat..." p.
Carlo Ginzburg’s The Night Battles: Witchcraft and Agrarian Cults in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries deals with a previously little-known area of early modern European history.
The majority of the book takes place in the trial rooms where alleged benandanti claim to fight on the side of the Christian God while facing interrogation that believes otherwise.
(xvii) His investigation into the benandanti, particularly the assimilation of benandanti into the church's perception of witchcraft, is aimed at exploring this larger idea from within the smaller scope of the trials taking place in and around Friuli.
Interesting survey of the evolution of a complex of myths in Italy. Ginzburg attempts to show how the Church and Inquisition morphed an ancient agricultural folk cult into the traditional witches sabbath. I found myself thinking of this as a meeting of two Heideggerian 'worlds' where the Inquisitors, baffled by the seemingly contradictory "good witches" they encountered, tried to shoehorn the benandanti into the Church's closest conceptual analog i.e. witches, the devil, and the sabbath. Of course, the benandanti are the ones in direct opposition to the witches!
Docela jsem se na tuhle knížku těšila, i když je opět - šokující - zahrnuta v mé povinné literatuře. Některé momenty mě bavily, ovšem neustálé opakování toho, co jsou benandanti, procesy s nimi, kde vyslýchaný říkal více méně to samé, co ten předchozí... To bylo unavující. Celá kniha je v podstatě soubor procesů s benandanty/čarodějnicemi a to je vše. :)
My class tore this book to pieces but honestly, I kind of liked it. Do I feel that Ginzburg was a little bit willful with his evidence? Yes. In the words of Sherlock Holmes, he was twisting facts to suit theories instead of theories to suit facts. But do I think he is on to something? Also yes. This book is worth the read.
Overall a highly compelling microhistory, particularly for those interested in that strange and wonderful region of Friuli, with Venetian inquisitorial practices, and with folk beliefs in early modern Europe.
Vážně velmi čtivě napsáno, což se mi u tohoto druhu literatury moc často nestává. Autor vychází z výslechů a udání v tehdejší době a snaží se nám vše jasně vysvětlit. I když se po nějaké době člověk může začít ztrácet, protože se hodně faktů prolíná a míchá. Ale za přečtení rozhodně stojí.
It is all over the place and not in chronological order. You get information after you needed it not when you needed it.
Often times the caul is worn on the person in order for them to participate in the battle.
They were vowed to silence unless they get beaten or killed.The Inquisition by the Catholic church which was started to route out heretics and witches took a lenient view toward the Benandante during the 1300’s .
As time progress they were associated more and more with witches and they could end up being imprisoned or tortured.
A total change in attitude.It seems connected with the Witches sabbat where in a goddess like Diana in Italy or Hulda or Perchta led a procession of fairies or souls of the dead.
The benandanti were members of an old fertility cult in northern Italy whose participants believed their souls left their bodies to fight witches at night, the victor determining whether the harvest succeeded or failed.
Ginzburg's main point is that through the interrogations and persecution of the Inquisition, over roughly a century, the benandanti came to see themselves as the witches that the inquisitors accused them of being.
In essence, their answers changed from, "what is a sabbat?" to "yes, I go to diabolical sabbats at night," over time, due to the suggestions of the dominant, learned class.
The depositions tell of a semi-uniform story about nocturnal visionary journeys in which each benandanti leaves their body to fight malevolent witches and warlocks that are threatening their crops.
Eventually, the church believes that benandanti are witches themselves and persecutes them.Ginzburg also compares the folk tales of the benandanti to other legends about witches, werewolves, warlocks, etc form other parts of Eastern and Northern Europe to establish parallelism between the different folk traditions of late medieval and early modern periods.
They have been recorded in depositions by the Holy Office from around 1400s - 1600s.
The book deals with the roots of this fertility cult and its folklore, to a time when it was moulded to fit Christian motifs and ideas.I found it interesting and the chapters are bite size (though the paragraphs can be long).
The book did not have a satisfying conclusion (it actually had no summing up at the end) but then maybe historians only seek to show, not dictate, what happened in history using the evidence available.Either way, it is a fascinating snapshot (based on accounts at the time) into that society and region.
1 of: The Night Battles: Witchcraft and Agrarian Cults in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries [Paperback:] By: Carlo Ginzburg, et alCondition: Used - GoodSold by: owlsmart_usa £6.94Having read the scrumptiously dark novel The Owl Killers I became quite intrigued with agrarian cults and with some help from Miriam steering me in the right direction, this is indeed the right book. So far I have read about the 'benandanti' and the Italian Branch of the Inquisition and now am reading about werewo
1 of: The Night Battles: Witchcraft and Agrarian Cults in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries [Paperback:] By: Carlo Ginzburg, et alCondition: Used - GoodSold by: owlsmart_usa	£6.94Having read the scrumptiously dark novel The Owl Killers I became quite intrigued with agrarian cults and with some help from Miriam steering me in the right direction, this is indeed the right book. So far I have read about the 'benandanti' and the Italian Branch of the Inquisition and now am reading about werewolves.Engrossing stuff!
Who wouldn't love this outstanding work of history? Ginzburg pored through Inquisiton archives previously inaccessible and brought us the story of the "benandanti", or "good-walkers". Largely rural folk, the benandanti of the Friuli in Italy were people with the ability to leave their bodies at night and battle witches and demons to protect the villages' crops and livestock. No shit. Numerous denunciations and interrogations of benandanti are discussed here. Even cooler, there is evidence elsewhere (the Livonian werewolf is my favorite example) of eerily similar rites occurring elsewhere in Europe at this time. Doesn't get much better than this.
This book was impossibly dry. The information contained within it was often presented without appropriate background, or without the background presented first. I was often lead to read the same paragraph or section over and over again in an attempt to understand it - it was not well written. Though the subject matter was very interesting, the book itself was a disappointment simply because of how difficult it was to get the information out of it that it was intended - and attempted valiantly - to present to it's readers.
A book for Historians and one that probably needs some context. Ginzburg returns to the much berated works of Mary Murray and offers a new perspective on the witchhunts. The book lacks a good conclusion and often the author is merely making educated guesses unsupported by the evidence offered. For the well read on witchcraft this is a must read, but for the novice this book can not stand alone.
Come sempre, quando un saggio storico riporta le voci dei ceti subalterni, come nei verbali di un processo dell'Inquisizione, mi piace moltissimo. Qui si tratta di credenze popolari e culti agrari del Friuli.As always, when a history book reports the voices of the people, such as verbal of inquiries of the Inquisition, I love it. This one is about popular myths in Friuli (Northern Italy).
A really interesting look into the origins and applications of the witch craze in Europe. It's not just about midwives anymore! Instead you get to see the actual trials of the benandanti--a group of people in the Friuli region who fought against witches, but then came to be seen as witches through the Inquisition's manipulative tactics.
I had to read this for a class about Witchcraft. The book was interesting, but the author repeated himself a lot (about 2/3 of the book could be condensed into the other 1/3), and he wasn't able to prove his point extremely well. However, important points were made in the book, and I'm glad I read most of it.
so many things I love in this book: benandanti, werewolves, the procession of the dead, witches... a really fun book!I must remember to look further into the Kernstniki and the Vile(viljenaci), and history of the island of Arbe.
Bello, chiaro,esauriente,interessante. Accessibile a qualsiasi tipo di pubblico. Ci riporta indietro ad un universo mentale per noi quasi inimmaginabile, presentandoci testimonianze dirette, vocI di persone esistite,pensieri di uomini e donne così lontani da noi nel tempo e nella sensibilità.
This book concentrated on the sort of stuff that really fascinates me. It had elements of witchcraft and the occult, along with broader social and political structures. That being said, it lacked a certain amount of analysis that was bothersome for me. Over all though I liked it.
Classic study of the disjunction between learned and popular conceptions of witchcraft in the early modern period.
Interesting topic, dry reading.
