https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/166997.Stoner
I stacked a lot of hay, feed cattle in subzero weather, pulled calves (you've never been properly slimed until you've spent time up to your elbow in a cow's uterus.), fixed fence, rode tractors listening to Royals baseball games to keep from dozing off, drove trucks full of grain, and every minute I wasn't doing something for the farm or playing sports I was reading books.
The author John Williams grew up on a small farm in Texas and had a similar escape to the University as Stoner and I.
I hope they accept it.Original Review October 2009:This is the most straight-forward linear narrative type of novel I've read in the past year.
But I soon realized that the novel is impressive precisely because it is able to be so damn linear, the writing style so damn plain, and the characters so damn dull and yet...
Each one, even the ones that make our protagonist's life hell, you can't blame them because the writer makes you understand (slowly) why they are the way they are.
His wife deliberately takes away any pleasures he has, such as converting his den to her “art studio” so that he can’t spend time alone with his daughter while he works as she does her homework.
Just as we can imagine a good friend or a brother or a sister telling us “you should have done this, Jim; you should have done that.” It’s obvious to them where we went wrong; yet they can’t see all the things we think and feel at the time; they can’t live our lives for us and despite all the advice and evidence that we should have done THIS or done THAT, instead we DON’T do that or we DO something entirely different.
One message of the book is “carpe diem” (seize the day, or in youth speak: YOLO), which is also reflected in Sonnet 73’s focus on decay, death, and enjoying what we have while we can.Stoner can be brave, such as swapping from an agricultural degree course with its predictable future to an English literature degree, inspired by a sonnet he struggled to explain – and yet he doesn’t have the courage to tell his parents until after they’ve attended his graduation.What Sort of Man?
THIS WAS MY BEST BOOK OF 2016! It was a hard decision; it was a choice between this and  The Vegetarian by Hang Kang. But I had to think which book taught be the most, and which book helped me the most. I enjoyed them both immensely, I loved them, but this one set me on my path in life; thus, I will always be grateful for John Williams and his Stoner. ****************************************************** He opened the book; and as he did so it became not his own. He let his fingers rifle throu
I enjoyed them both immensely, I loved them, but this one set me on my path in life; thus, I will always be grateful for John Williams and his Stoner.
However, through all the shit times, and the occasional glimpses of happiness, one thing keeps him animated; it’s a thing every reader knows: a love of words, a love of books and a love of the wonderment of literature.
>Why you should read this: I don’t often go as far as to explicitly state something like this in a review.
If you take a good look at this painting and then envision a son, an only child, working the fields alongside his father, you will have a clear image of the starting point of Stoner, John Williams’ classic novel of quiet perfection.The novel follows the life of William Stoner from his boyhood on a Missouri farm though his years as a faculty member of the English Department at the University of Missouri.
Through all the years of isolation and alienation, including Edith’s wedging a wall of separation between Stoner and Grace, there is one particularly poignant scene where we read, “Once, while Edith was upstairs, William and his daughter passed each other in the living room.
E proprio come Flaubert con la sua Madame Bovary, mi viene da dire, Stoner sono io.Scrittura bisbigliata, lineare, semplice, chiara, limpida, trasparente come una superficie di vetro, si vede attraverso, si capisce...Un piccolo miracolo, che illumina: proprio come Stoner rimase illuminato dal sonetto 73 di Shakespeare.**Un difetto di luce, o meglio, A Flaw of Light, era il titolo originale di questo romanzo quando Williams lo consegnò alla sua agente, Marie Rodell.
Instead, I am going to confess that I read only half of it (and, thereby, my ignorance has been properly disclaimed) but that this aborted reading filled me with such unmitigated contempt for the author that I plan on mounting every soapbox (if soapboxes haven't been technologically obviated by now) from here to the Great Barrier Reef condemning this plodding, tiresome, amateurish book with an antagonistic passion that literature hasn't evoked in me since Cambridge's A Concise History of France (wherein concision meant excising significant historical events in favor of agricultural data and a dimly Marxist perspective, but I digress -- as always).I shouldn't blame John Williams for my rising blood pressure because in fact YOU are to blame.

Stoner is like a Rothko painting put to words; empty blotches, perhaps, at first glance, but sublime, minimalist depth with time and attention.
An excellent introduction (I don't think I've ever said that before...most introductions are stupid) in the NYRB edition includes a rate Williams interview in which the author describes the main character as heroic for, essentially, sticking to his own values and doing the best he can.
What might appear as small failures are potentially victories in the context of Stoner's values (which, in other characters' eyes, sometimes appear as stubbornness).
And beyond.P.S. In some of the book's NYRB promotional materials Tom Hanks praises Stoner.
Not having Stoner’s gift of endurance, I fled, abandoning the dream of a life of learning and science after 6 years of struggle, as university was not the refuge and source of wisdom this naive working class daughter hoped for, but a ruthless, almost egotistic habitat crushing me – a place where teaching didn’t really matter.
I disliked Williams’s portrayal of Edith, Stoner’s vicious battle-axe of a wife – I guess I am not conversant enough with the perception of American women in that part of history, but her one-dimensional depiction hardly exceeds the caricature image of the neurotic frigid female, like the Madge in Frank Zappa’s Harry you’re a beast (You paint your head - Your mind is dead -- You don't even know what I just said - THAT'S YOU: AMERICAN WOMANHOOD!
Αρχικά, διότι μόλις η σύζυγος του αποφασίζει να τον αποκόψει απο την κόρη του και να διαχειριστεί τα πάντα μέσα στην οικογένεια ο Στόουνερ απλά βολεύεται, το δέχεται αναντίρρητα και συνεχίζει το έργο της διδασκαλίας και της συγγραφής βιβλίων.
Παραμένει εγκάθετος στη θέση του σχετικά με κάποιον φοιτητή που θεωρεί πως δεν πληροί τις προδιαγραφές φοίτησης και προσπαθεί δυναμικά να τον απομακρύνει απο το πνευματικό και ιερό χώρο του πανεπιστημίου.
Όταν του ανακοινώνει πως είναι έγκυος απο κάποιον συμφοιτητή που δεν γνωρίζει καλά καλά, ο Στόουνερ αφήνει τις σκοτούρες και τα βάρη στην σύζυγο του και δέχεται τα πάντα τρέχοντας να κλειστεί στο γραφείο του για να συγγράψει το έργο του.
The love story within this book is suddenly out-of-nowhere rapturous, and the marriage is brittle, delicate, insensible and perfectly done.
The book feels so modern, though the bulk of the action is set in the 30's and 40's.
I kept stopping to check that this was true - the love affair, in particular, feels like something that might be happening this moment in an office at, say, Middlebury.
Stoner's marriage, in contrast, is painfully frozen in time and in the cultural expectations of women in the early part of the last century, but even so, Stoner's wife's personality feels very real to me, and the way it is written about feels revolutionary.
“Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them.” - Henry David Thoreau The triumph of this work lies in its self-effacing world-weariness, its tone of indifference even to the prospective reader's concerns.
William Stoner, first student and eventually English professor at (fictionalized) University of Missouri lives a life of flawed choices, unrealized potential and innumerable regrets, witnessing the world go through a period of tremendous sociopolitical ferment in the 20th century, and remaining invisible in the eyes of history.
Kenton * Thomas Cowperthwait Eakins (1844-1916) - http://ow.ly/BTMT302ZgKN William Stoner se sintió vinculado a él de una manera que no hubiera sospechado; sabía que Lomax había pasado por una especie de conversión, una epifanía de conocimiento a través de las palabras que no podía ser explicada con palabras, como a Stoner le había sucedido una vez, en la clase de Archer Sloane.El amor a la literatura, al lenguaje, al misterio de la mente y el corazón manifestándose en la nimia, extraña e inesperada combinación de letras y palabras, en la tinta más negra y fría… El amor que había ocultado, como si fuese ilícito y peligroso, empezó a exhibirse, vacilante en un principio, luego con temeridad y finalmente con orgullo.
Pero muy pronto advertimos la deriva, descubrimos que en realidad William Stoner es rehén de una fragilidad radical y de una amarga represión interior.
Only under my breath, after their departure, would pass a smile of assurance and utter, ‘They do.’In the moments that saw me reading the last few pages of this book, that old vision made its presence felt; much like a feather that comes flying from nowhere and perches on the evening window sill.
’You, too, are cut out for failure; not that you'd fight the world.
But in the angst of those shadows, lies the petals of life; someday you should pause and feel its textures.
But he falls in love with English literature instead and thanks to a particular professor he becomes a teacher himself, growing estranged from his family in the process.We follow his life through 40 years of teaching, of crushed illusions and bitter disappointments about his failure of a marriage to the wrong woman, of rare fleeting blissful moments in a rather bleak existence in solitude, of a life dedicated to teaching where he finds his only solace.I found that as the years passed by, the voice in the novel gained in strength and that Stoner became the person he was always supposed to be.
His seemingly detached account of the years between the two great world wars, his increasing estrangement first from his family and later from his own wife and daughter, his struggle for an idealistic conception of what university teachers should be like...
He is lucky to know what he plays for: "Lust and learning!"And he is lucky to be able to see the short moments of happiness and be grateful for them, instead of ambitiously pushing for unrealistic goals by fighting windmills to keep up the appearance of importance and vain actionism.Stoner is in love with teaching, and maybe that is too absurd to be taken seriously if you have not felt the same yourself.
That is why his life - dedicated to learning, reading and sharing - is a perfect rebellion against the mediocre world he lives in.
His life advances in an isolated manner, devoid of the force that transforms a thought into action or the knowledge of how to use it.Stoner grows up on a farm and lacks the notions of the bigger world’s complexities.
Lacking experience, he isn’t able to connect his own life with this imaginary world and instead, separates them completely.
Despite all the theoretical knowledge, he doesn’t have the tools to question and resist his own life course.This book is a monument to the mundane, to the paths we choose without really choosing, to the joys and sorrows that coincidences distribute unevenly among people, and of a life that has much more within its reach, yet stays motionless and trapped between opposing forces.
I don’t know if anyone else interprets Stoner this way, but he seemed to me to embody the reading experience itself -- the losing of one’s self in the text and the passive acceptance that life’s narratives play out according to some authorial design.
He lacked what it took to write his own story.Williams, an academic himself, said in a rare interview that he never considered Stoner a loser.
And even if we don’t like the man, we can still like the book.Stoner gets the NYRB Seal of Approval and, for that matter, mine as well.
I would have never thought the bland life of an unfulfilled midwestern professor could be so grasping. Stoner is not someone you want to know or be related to but his struggles are real and worth knowing about. At times, it appears he will find contentment (he is able to get out of the laborious life led by his parents) but his hardships are rough and his life is never lived for himself.
.The critic Morris Dickstein called Stoner, "something rarer than a great novel -- it is a perfect novel, so well told and beautifully written, so deeply moving, it takes your breath away.” I could not agree more with Dickstein’s account of this book.
I was deeply moved by the story and I constantly rooted for this very gentle, introspective and solitary man throughout his futile attempts to achieve some sort of happiness, good fortune or pleasure…anything…please, god, help him out here!
“A war doesn’t merely kill off a few thousand or a few hundred thousand young men.
And has this to say about the main protagonist: William Stoner emerges from it not only as an archetypal American, but as an unlikely existential hero, standing, like a figure in a painting by Edward Hopper, in stark relief against an unforgiving world I'm sorry, but that's just a crock, even allowing for reviewer hyperbole.
But those are authors with, you know, discernible intelligence, an affliction which John Edward Williams has apparently been spared.I just read David K's excellent review and realize that I am a hero, albeit a "Master and Margarita"-loving hero.
So I said okay, imagine that me and your mother weigh exactly the same, then who would you throw out?
So I said okay, imagine that me and your mother weigh the same and we’re exactly the same age, now who would you throw out?
Oh and then Bill Stoner gets embroiled in a ridiculous trench war in the English department, the upshot of which is that now his boss also hates him and spends 25 years making sure his professional life is a misery.
Albrecht Dürer: Job and his WifeVintage books seem to specialise in producing beautiful paperback editions of titles that have been out of print or have only recently been translated into English. I have a small collection of their red-spined covers sitting on my shelves. They all have something in common apart from the red spines; they are books I may read again sometime in my life because of the quality of the writing, the depth of the characterisation and the overall worth of the contents. T
I’d love to see his books getting more attention; a re-release of McGahern's works would allow a new generation of readers to see how he evolved over time, how he kept rubbing away at a small number of themes until they were as smooth and perfect as a stone polished by the sea.Smooth but not flat.The word flat occurs to me because I found Williams' writing flat from the beginning, not flat as in spare or plain but flat as in lifeless.
But, although Stoner goes on to read widely, eventually teaching in a college, his literary journey doesn’t influence the language of the novel very much; there is no interplay between Williams’ writing and Stoner’s literary evolution.
An incredibly melancholy, wistful campus novel whose flurries of hope are always the perfect length - we root for Stoner, even knowing from the beginning where the story will end.
There are incredible descriptions: marble stairs wearing down over 40 years; college greens stretching forever; memorable bodies on memorable characters; faces of loved ones flashing through light.
One pleasure of this book is that no one, except a certain love interest, is particularly morally good, but every character, even the antagonist, is treated generously.
Despite the frustrations of campus politics, teaching itself is at core a holy thing, and Williams understood that.
Stoner felt himself suspended in the wide air, and he heard his voice ask, "Are you sure?""I'm sure," Sloane said softly."How can you tell?" How can you be sure?""It's love.
The subject will be some flavor of English and decided when the time has come, but more pressing questions of what type were whittled down to a mere few, the final one concerning the choice between high school and college answered a day ago.
Stoner said, "Tell her—he paused awkwardly—"tell her that, if she wants to, she can come live with us.
Don't you know that?"Stoner nodded, "I suppose I do," he said.
This manuscript may still be found in the Rare Books Collection, bearing the inscription: 'Presented to the Library of the University of Missouri, in memory of William Stoner, Department of English.
Even though the perceived greyness.Stoner's Axiom: every story of a lifetime needs to be told.Vote: 9«Stoner si iscrisse all'Università del Missouri nel 1910, all'età di diciannove anni.
Il manoscritto si trova ancora oggi nella sezione dei "Libri rari", con la dedica: "Donato alla Biblioteca dell'Università del Missouri in memoria di William Stoner, dipartimento di Inglese.
Nelle pagine di John Williams scorre lineare la vita del protagonista, una vita come tante, scandita da delusioni più che da momenti felici.
Reading Stoner (especially after we listened to Skippy Dies) opened us both back open to the wisdom of fiction.
(In the case of Stoner, it made my old man finally decide it was time to consider retiring, still as vital with research, publication, and teaching as ever, but, at age 75, still.) Eventually, we let go of everything.
People that think they know the most often treat people the worst.Loved this book, though, and the character of Stoner, and the view of society and and passing time in one life that the author illustrated through Stoner.
Stoner broke my heart.
