https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84927.Amadeus
You weep like you’ve never have before because you know that this man is better than you.
You have to live with the knowledge that this man is the best musician of the age and nobody else knows.So what do you do with this brilliant man called Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart?
Mainly because your stupid sense of self image is insulted that a man such as him, one who acts like a child and is loud and obnoxious, could be better than you.But, as hard as it is for me to say it, this is only one reading of this play.

It also starred Morag Hood as Constanze Weber.The film a couple of years later became a well-deserved favourite, but this was a breathtaking introduction to what has become a famous story about the tragically short life of the composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.
Did Mozart, shortly before he died, know that the Requiem Mass he was writing would be his own?The idea that (view spoiler)[Salieri poisoned Mozart (hide spoiler)] has intrigued people ever since Mozart's death.
Pushkin wrote a short play entitled "Mozart and Salieri" five years after Salieri's death, and later the composer Rimsky-Korsakov set it to music as an opera.
اینقدر خوب بود که وقتی 10-20 صفحشو خونده ام متوجه شدم با اثر فوق العاده ای روبرو هستم...کم کم از بس دوسش داشتم نمیخواستم بخونمش...و وقتی تموم شد واقعا توی بهت بودم.
توی کتاب "تراژدیهای کوچک" پوشکین اولین بار بود که این موضوع رو خوندم...اینکه سالیری آهنگساز برجسته ایتالیایی از سر حسادت و طمع، موتسارت رو مسموم میکنه و موتسارت در اوج جوانی در 35 سالگی از دنیا میره و البته سالیری 30 سال بعدش در 74 سالگی میمیره.
الان متوجه میشم چرا توی تشیع جنازه اش هیچ کس نبود!توی این کتاب شخصیت موتسارت بی پروا و گاهی کاملا مثل یه فرد عامی نشون داده شده بود و واقعا برای من عجیب بود...
I've never personally watched an Aleta before and hence, this review is solely based on my limited grasp of the play.
The play is more than just about rivalry or envy, it is about love and compassion.
Love that is destructive and compassion that burns ones own soul.
Both Salieri and Mozart love their work, to an extent that destroyed them.
Salieri destroyed himself not just out of envy for Mozart's talent but despise for his own limits.
There is love and there is envy bordering on hatred.
There is expected mortality, yet immortality coming out of it.
"Something immortal- yet stinking of death.
این نمایشنامه ، داستان آهنگسازی ایتالیایی به نام "آنتونیو سالیری" را روایت می کند که در آخرین سال های عمرش مدعی می شود که آهنگسار معروف ، "موتزارت" را به قتل رسانده استصرفنظر از این واقعیت که چقدرِ این ماجرا حقیقت داشت یا نه ، این طور مبتذل جلوه دادن "موتزارت" اصلا منصفانه نبود . یعنی تمام تصورات شیرین و شاعرانه ای که از خدا بیامرز "موتزارت" در ذهنم باقی مونده بود رو این اثر بر باد داد
جهان دراماتیکی که پیتر شیفر در نمایشنامه های خود خلق می کند تحت تاثیر این دو منبع مهم ادبیات غرب قرار دارد: انجیل با مضامین الهی شناسی خود، و اسطوره های یونان باستان.
شیفر در نمایشنامه های اصلی خود از جمله آمادئوس، ارجاعاتی به انجیل را مورد توجه قرار می دهد.
گروهی دیگر از منتقدان بر این باورند که تلاش سالیری برای مورد بحث قرار دادن ماهیت عدالت جهان و اعتقاد همیشگی او به خدا، با الهام از ماجرای بحث میان حضرت ایوب و خدا خلق شده است.
The best play ever about envy and talent. I loved the movie, but the dialogue in Peter Shaffer's 1981 stage classic is just wonderful, and Salieri's fury at God for imbuing Mozart with unappreciated talent is a great observation of human character and the unequal balance of musical gifts.
جنون، نبوغ و هنر، سه ضلع مثلثی را تشکیل میدهند که در مرکز آن تنها یک واژه جا خوش کرده است؛ ویرانی.
جنون، نبوغ و هنر، سه ضلع مثلثی را تشکیل می‌دهند که در مرکز آن تنها یک واژه جا خوش کرده است؛ ویرانی.
نمی دانم به عنوان کسی که فقط فیلم این کتاب را دیده، حق دارم نظری راجع به آن بدهم یا نه.به هر حال.داستان در سطح متوسط به بالا بود.
تلفیقی از واقعیت های زندگی موتزارت و تخیلات نویسنده و این دو را به زیبایی با هم تلفیق کرده بود.
علتی که به زیبایی با داستان زندگی موتزارت در هم آمیخته است.فیلم پر است از صحنه های اپرا و ارکستر که اگر به موسیقی کلاسیک علاقه داشته باشید، برایتان مهیج خواهد بود.
نمی دانم کتاب که شامل این موسیقی ها نیست، آیا جذابیت فیلم را دارد یا نه؟و در نهایت، مضمون کتاب، حسادت و در عین حال عشق دو شخصیت به هم است.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Dying composer Salieri is fiercely jealous of his young rival.
F Murray Abraham reads the play about Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.2/8: Salieri's jealousy of Mozart ignites a plot for revenge.3/8: Salieri wrestles with his conscience over seducing Mozart's wife.4/8: Will Salieri finally take his revenge on Mozart?
Or is his quarrel really with God?5/8: Salieri is seething when Mozart writes an Italian opera, so he plots to stop it.6/8: Salieri plots to ensure Mozart falls out of favour with the Masons.7/8: Will Salieri's plan to scupper 'The Magic Flute' work?
And who is Mozart writing a Requiem for?8/8: Did Salieri really poison his rival?
And who was Mozart's mysterious visitor?
All is revealed.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00shhrl
I judged Peter Shaffer's "Equus" by its vague title and its enticing cover.
For years, "Equus" has steadfastly remained my favorite play.
With this being said, I can't believe it took me so many years to read "Amadeus," a Shaffer play which has competed vigorously and perhaps successfully for the title of Shaffer's greatest work."Amadeus" immediately impressed me.
I also, for the first time, gandered at the possible effect Mozart's talent must have had on the professional musicians around him.
Shaffer's writing allowed me to see these historical figureheads as people.

Such rich writing and depth of personality insights from Shaffer's script, which I've enjoyed as a London stage productions and from reading. Fortunately I can also recommend Malkovich's film Amadeus; he had the sense to avoid that usual Hollywood saccharine.
I will never be able to listen to Mozart's music ever again without hearing his high-pitched giggle.
فیلم آمادئوس یکی از محبوبترین فیلمهایی است که تا کنون دیده امدر مورد کتاب هم باید بگم که نمایشنامه بسیار عالی و زیبا نوشته شده، البته فکر کنم بانسخه اصلی پیتر شیفر تفاوت داشته باشهدر هنگام مطالعه کتاب این ابیات از سعدی مدام در پس زمینه ذهن من تکرار می شدهر آنکـه گـردش گیتـی بـکـین او بـرخـاسـت بــغــیـر مـصــلــحــتــش رهـبــری کــنـد ایـامکـبــوتــری کـه دگـر آشـیـان نـخـواهـد دیـد قـضـا هـمـی بــردش تـا بـسـوی دانـه و دام
Then Mozart himself was also terrifying; if there's one thing about me, I can't deal with people who act childish as adults.
Very likely, he had some hand in it.Now that's out of the way, I do think Shaffer was brilliant.
Despite me really not liking any of the main characters, I did care for them in this odd way.
I felt for Mozart and his plight of even trying to just survive in a cutthroat musician world he wasn't ready for.
I felt for Salieri and being haunted by what he had done as an old man, realizing that he was in the wrong.
I don't often read plays since I figure they're meant to be performed, and I more or less knew how this one would end, but Amadeus was still a riveting drama.
For a play, it contains a lot of exposition.
Salieri, the composer who is now remembered as Mozart's rival, is both the narrator, delivering monologues that relate past events, and a character in the events that unfold.
As often happens with historical fiction, some of the most improbable details -- Mozart is portrayed as infantile, with a scatological sense of humor -- turn out to be based in fact.
I watched the film couple of years ago for uni and since then always longed to see the play on stage. And finally I had the fortune of seeing it at the National Theatre in London on Feb 1, 2017! <3Obviously I wanted to read the play beforehand and what else to say than that it's as brilliant as the film?!!! Even without music it's really powerful and simply fantastic.
Peter Saffer's beautiful dramatic work,a distinguished account of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart life and struggle against his envious enemies on top of all the Italian musician Antonio Salieri...The movie based upon the play was really awesome ,the director & his main actors gave truly amazing performances,coz of which their integrated work is considered now to be a highly praised classic...
I remember seeing a production of this play years ago and I really enjoyed it. I really love the movie, and I would probably go see the play again.
Me ha encantado la obra!!!
Da una parte il genio assoluto di Mozart incarnato in un individuo volgare e caricaturale, arrogante e privo di savoir-faire, ma così in anticipo sui suoi tempi da non essere compreso, nella sua geniale creatività, che dal suo più acerrimo nemico.
Salieri invidia a Mozart il suo ruolo di “preferito” da Dio (“Ama-deus”, nel senso che Dio lo ama) e nella cesura tra i due atti, al culmine della tensione, si rivolge alla divinità gridando la sua rabbia, in uno dei passi più belli del dramma:Salieri [rivolto a Dio]: “Da questo momento siamo nemici, Tu ed io!
It’s great fun in any version, but the terrific thing about this “Signet Movie Edition” of the play is that it couples the play with Shaffer’s musings on the results of his extensive adaptation work later with Forman (who co-wrote the screenplay).
For another, the movie adds the fully fleshed-out supporting characters the play lacks – Constanze Weber’s mother, Mozart’s father, the diva Katherina Cavallieri, the Emperor Joseph II, and even the soundtrack which makes die musik a character in its own right – combining to make the story a meatier, more substantive work.
I know the written play wasn't a final complete work, it's suppose to produce on the theatre and got
Bettie's Books
Excellent play! Even the stage direction is intriguing!
The universal example of a genius, Mozart, uses his astonishing, unfair talents to make the life of the hardworking, kind of plodding main character Salieri miserable without even trying or knowing that he's doing it.
It's good, especially, I imagine, if you know anything about music.
I saw the film version of this back in something like ninth grade, when some overworked teacher was trying to get a few class periods of a break (I can't imagine what class it was in, or how it was even postulated to be part of a unit) and I still remember a lot of the scenes.
Salierin kunnianhimo ja missio säveltää Jumalan armosta kääntyy häntä vastaan, kun röyhkeä sikaileva Mozart saapuu hoviin. Mozart on lahjakas, mutta heikko ylläpitämään sosiaalisia suhteita. Salierin juonii Mozartin köyhyyden ja hulluuden kuilun reunalle ja sen yli. / Tekstissä oli minun makuuni liikaa suoraa puhuttelua yleisölle.
As a performed play, I would certainly give this 5 stars. However, I don't really like reading plays--so much is missing. I recently saw the National Theatre Live broadcast of this and it was fantastic. Wanted to read it to get it more firmly in my mind. Not really factual, but a wonderful exploration of giftedness, jealousy, and what the book jacket called "divine unfairness."
