https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3261447-quantum-of-solace
As the title suggests, "Quantum of Solace: The Complete James Bond Short Stories" has everything but the novels -- and Ian Fleming did write mostly 007 novels, so this is a relatively brief collection.
While the stories vary somewhat in quality, they do demonstrate that Fleming was a talented writer with a good eye for description, a sharp wit, and strong sense of pacing, even in the tighter format of the short story.I'm not sure what's suggested by this, but the two best stories in the collection, "Quantum of Solace" and "Octopussy," feature James Bond as only a tangential character.
The ultimate bathtub or plane reading book.
It goes from the eyes to the brain, but doesn't stay long there.
But that something else doesn't come along.I was raised with James Bond in the pop culture background, and it's interesting to read the original source.
All the short stories here are enjoyable but at the same time it's crap.The beauty of 'James Bond' is more important than the actual literature by Ian Fleming.
But saying that I have only read "Casino Royal" and then this collection.
i imagine that the stories first appeared in various 'men' magazines.
You can smell the after-shave lotion in these stories.
Some of the plot elements here were used in the film For Your Eyes Only."The Hildebrand Rarity"Ian Fleming displays impressive nature-writing skills, offering vivid descriptions of Indian Ocean marine life in this non-spy story set among the Seychelle islands.
A year before the construction of the Berlin Wall, Bond is sent to Berlin to help a British agent possessing important intelligence to cross from the East back to the West.
I picked up this book because I enjoy the Bond films so much.
The Bond of the book world, however, is different in some ways from the Bond of the film world.
This Bond, although confident and poised, experiences some inner conflict about the things he must do to serve his country.
But I won't psychoanalyze Bond.Bond seems driven not only by his devotion to his country, but by a desire to cure boredom.
Overall, the stories are good entertainment, and Bond is a memorable figure.
I think anyone who enjoys the films will also enjoy this collection of short stories.
I enjoyed all the Bond books, and read them at a clip in 2008.
This one is just a collection of short stories, but if you've read a few full-length volumes ahead of this, the change of pace will be nice.Some are a bit humorous and flimsy, others are hard-hitting.
If you're just sampling Bond, this might be it, or it might be one to skip.
If you're going for the series it's of course a must and I'd read it in the order of publication.I will say that it's nice seeing how different this story is from the film that came out later.
To a greater or lesser degree, each tale has merit and serves to define and expand the character, the life, and times of this exceptional Cold War warrior, but one or two of the stories absolutely illuminate the human condition, especially the eponymous tale.
In the end, after the other guests depart, his host recounts a most amazing tale about people whom Bond had considered too common, too comfortable, too complacent, too unremarkable; in every way, he has pronounced even the attractive older woman of the husband-and-wife couple as completely unworthy of consideration.
His collection of James Bond short stories was a delight to read though definitely not for everyone.Fleming's 007 should not be confused with the Bond of the silver screen.
One of my favorite passages came from "The Living Daylights," where an officer assigned to assist Bond criticizes him for having a drink before getting down to business:‎"Look, my friend," said Bond wearily, "I've got to commit a murder tonight.
I am looking forward to revisiting more of Fleming's works and getting reacquianted with Bond in his original form.
The original James Bond stories are an interesting read if you want to see what the character was originally like.
One great example from the short story "Quantum of Solace":Bond says he wouldn't mind having a flight attendant girlfriend because "...it would be fine to always have a pretty girl tucking you up and bringing you drinks and hot meals and asking if you had everything you wanted.
Despite the comments that would be considered vaguely racist or sexist today, the stories are entertaining and easy to get through.
Don't ask me why I've a soft spot for Bond, but I do.
I suspect it's my inner car-geek (mmm car chases) combined with my inner gadget freak.
I read my first Ian Fleming long ago while I was in school, but I can't remember which one.
I remember being unimpressed at the time.
This time around, however, I enjoyed it.
The stories weren't as sexist in the ways I'd expected and yet, they were more sexist in ways I hadn't expected.
(Same with the racism.) Anyway, fun in a vintage way--in that it provides an insight into Western cultural history of the era.
unfortunately, I had to abandon my copy of this book, but 70% fully read and 30% skimmed revealed, I believe, one very good story full of psychological complexity, and the rest being pretty straight formulaic fiction, including some filler based on Fleming apparently needing to write something and coming up with two or three scuba diving stories that are only incidentally about License-to-Kill #007.I suppose I could turn this into one of those really clever academic deconstructions of the bond character.
However, I felt the time was right to revisit the James Bond short stories, which in 2008 were collected in one volume called Quantum of Solace to tie in with the film release of that name.
Since it has been a couple of years since I last read any of Ian Fleming's original works, it was refreshing to revisit his wonderful writing.
And even if I stand by my original feeling that Bond is better in novel length stories, these shorts are almost all essential Bond adventures and well worth reading.
Even the titular story, Quantum of Solace, which is not actually a proper Bond adventure is a most enjoyable read.
I wavered between 3 and a 4 because the very, very good Quantum of Solace, alone, was enough to make it noteworthy. For students of Bond, those who recognize that the short stories, novels and movies are distinct, but interrelated, you do gain a better understanding of the Bond ethos. That makes it worth reading.
I've been a huge James Bond fan for 35 years. Both the films and the novels. This is a collection of the Ian Fleming shorts stories.All of them are very good, and it gives a good look at the "Book" Bond. Several of the stories have elements that found their way into the Bond films.Highly recommended for all Bond fans!
The stories waver between three and four stars...he's obviously working some things out. I must say that my appreciation for the title of the collection, and consequently the recent movie, was increased ten-fold by reading the fantastic short story so named! And so begins my decent in to all things Bond!
WOW - very interesting to read because it is SO dated. Racist, sexist, anti-German, you name it. Really liked a couple of the stories, but I had to keep reminding myself it was written around 1960.
This collection is all nine of Ian Fleming's James Bond short stories published as a movie tie-in under the title of one of them: QUANTUM OF SOLACE.
The Thomas & Mercer editions of the entire Bond series is the new line as of 2012; if consumers want these nine stories under that handsome imprint they'll have to buy two books instead of one (FOR YOUR EYES ONLY and OCTOPUSSY) to get all the material in QUANTUM OF SOLACE.That material is uniformly excellent by the way, including the two or three times Bond is not on assignment.
I wanted to like the stories, if only I could get over being offended.
These stories are like the detail scenes in-between the action scenes in a Bond film.
“From a View to a Kill” *** Bond uncovers an enemy’s secret hideout.“For Your Eyes Only” ** Bond is sent on a personal mission for M to avenge his friend’s murder.“Quantum of Solace” *** A dinner host relates a story of the twists and turns of an ill-matched couple.“Risico” *** Bond works to stop a drug boss, but all is not as it seems.“The Hildebrand Rarity” *** Bond goes “fishing”.
“The Living Daylights” ** Bond’s double standard strikes again.“007 in New York” * Bond is a snob.
But, having read that one, I decided to finish off the few remaining stories in this collection I'd been working on over the years (which combines the previous collections For Your Eyes Only and Octopussy & The Living Daylights) so I could say I've read all of Ian Fleming's 007 novels and stories (except for the back half of Thunderball, which I never went back to).
But for this book in particular, the range in quality of the stories (taken from two previous 007 short story collections: For Your Eyes Only and Octopussy & The Living Daylights) I'm going with just three stars.
Quantum of solace is nine short 'James Bond' stores by Ian Fleming. These stories are 'true' Bond stories and not the unbelievable movies with the same names. Ian Fleming is a great author and the stores are easy to read. Some are better than others. But all are fun to read, great Bond stories.
A bit formulaic at times but mostly enjoyable short stories, specially; "Quantum of Solace" (a rather different take on the Bond routine), "Risico", "The Hildebrand Rarity", "Octopussy", "The Property of a Lady" (It's all in the subtlety of the details) and "The Living Daylights" (My personal favourite).
I enjoy Fleming, and I enjoy Bond. It's a nice collection of stories. One of the last was too short to be much of anything. There are a lot of artifacts of Fleming's time in all the stories, in his attitudes towards women, and people of color, but I take that like I had to sometimes with my Grandfather, that what he said reflected his age as much as who he was.
This is chewing gum for the eyes, diverting enough as casual reading but nothing more. Fleming was a decent writer, and his Bond is a much more conflicted and ambiguous character than in the films, but ultimately this is pure entertainment with very little substance.
Complete! Outstanding!
3 1/2 stars.
A collection of short stories with titles from some Bond films but not the same content. Entertaining if you can get over all the women hating.
Read it for 007 in New York, if anything.
nine very short Bond stories.Action packed
:O Yes, I am aware Bond is not very civilized in the books, but it's still kind of shocking.Quantum of Solace: 4.5 stars.
Is this a bad thing?Risico: 5 stars.
Actually, the title story is the only one so far that HASN'T ended with naughty implications for Bond.
3 for the story and an extra half star for the description of the Emerald Sphere itself.
Actually, adding an extra half star for the descriptions of the various guns.
But yes, apart from the description there's not much else going on in the story, and the ending is rather rushed.Overall rating: approximately 3.5.
There is a good deal of description to this story, to the point where it is very easy to imagine the surroundings or imaginings of Bond.
5 starsThe Hildebrand Rarity: Bond covers up the murder of an annoying man to protect both a beautiful woman and a friend, during an expedition to find a rare fish.
2.5 starsOctopussy: The story of a man who killed someone important to Bond.
2 starsThe Living Daylights: Bond is such a whiner in this story!
(edit; 'The Living Daylights,' Bond does care about the fate of a woman, opting to only injure the left hand of a female KGB operative instead of killing her, despite his orders.
7 good, short stories about my favorite spy, 007!
As to the stories..."From a View to a Kill" is a really good read!
Despite that, I really liked the who-done-it ending!"Octopussy" is funny to read, as the story has almost NOTHING to do with the movie of the same name, except that it is the background story of the title character and is recounted by her!
But, it's a good short story, with very little of Bond in it.
The plot is almost all about Smythe, though it has a personal place in Bond's life, one that is hit upon in the movie "Spectre".
