https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238961.Killashandra
Again, I read this book when it first was published.
Almost none of the story takes place on the crystal cutting planet.
Killa is desperate to get off-planet, before crystal resonance shakes her apart, so after she cuts 44 white crystals for an organ-- the kind that plays music-- she gets to go install them in the organ for the planet that buys them.
She's also requested to look around the plan because people go there, but only the tourists leave.
So, she goes and has a huge adventure, not a whole lot of crystal stuff, but enough.
It's a good read and I liked it a lot.
I need a good light read and McCaffrey delivered as always. As usual, her novel delivered a strong female character perfectly capable of taking care of herself, yet willing to be swept off her feet. Over sentimental and thick on the love struck, the novel made for an enjoyable light read. The second book in a series, the novel itself stands alone, since I've never actually read the first. McCaffrey does insert back information with a time that assumes foreknowledge; rather than delving into the
I need a good light read and McCaffrey delivered as always.
As usual, her novel delivered a strong female character perfectly capable of taking care of herself, yet willing to be swept off her feet.
Over sentimental and thick on the love struck, the novel made for an enjoyable light read.
The second book in a series, the novel itself stands alone, since I've never actually read the first.
If I am left feeling there is more to the story, out doesn't leave me confused but instead desirous of locating the first novel.
Though the characters at times feel a bit over-the-top, they are amusing and enjoyable.
Action, Drama, Mystery and RomanceAnne McCaffrey has reached a new high point of literary success with this work.A page Turner you will not want to put down.
Review to come :)
another hospital reread
Excellent character development. Tight narrative. Second of a trilogy. Couldn't put it down!
It was a re-read to the power of n, where n= 'impossible to calculate as I have been re-reading this book since the 80's-90's'.Killashandra Ree, after successfully training to be a 'singer' of black crystal in the first novel of the series, has unfortunately lost her claim for the immensely rare black crystal.
A lot of that has to do with the world of Optheria because the time Killashandra spends in the tropical islands never fails to enchant me.
Very readable, moderately recommended.: The second of Anne McCaffrey's books about Killashandra Ree is a pleasure to read although highly predictable and somewhat over-sentimental in places.
The fact is that while you may have guessed exactly what will happen next you still want to read on.
Unlike many books I could mention you end up caring about what happens to the characters, you can't help it - they are so well written.
While Killashandra is hardly intellectually taxing I would still recommend it.
Perhaps as a holiday book.
It certainly contains the sun, sand and sex to get you into a holiday frame of mind.
Okay, I must have read this at least a half dozen times. I really enjoy the spunky main character of Killashandra. She kind of reminds me of my little sister. Feisty. Determined. Practical. If you enjoyed the first book, Crystal Singer, you will enjoy this one too. I also like the jabs McCaffrey takes at those who feel it is their responsibility to decide for others what is best for them. It is almost over the top with the symbolism she uses to do it, but it works in the context of this narrative.
It's a shame when a sequel of a book you really liked falls flat. Not entirely, but enough that you wonder why you remembered it as being better than it is. Most of the story revolves around something being wrong in the idyllic, utopian paradise, add some intrigue and a fairly creepy bit of romance, and you've got the essentials of Killashandra.
When a family member bought me this book as a gift I read it so much that the cover fell off and the pages started to wear out.One of these days I'll write a more intelligent review than this but I had to say I loved this book that much.
Perfect light read for me! Actually a reread... again. Killashandra was a comfort read to give my brain a break from a rough work week. I needed some old school sci-fi!
Lars Dahl! So many hearts. And Killashandra has also held up really well between when I first read it as a teenager and now. Love this series!
It's also a very different book in plot and tone.
The nominal plot is that Killashandra is tasked to deliver a load of the crystal she just cut to a world that strives for pastoral naturalism with the native ecosphere and is socially centered around its music academy.
The world has a ban on natives leaving the planet, and the galactic government wants to make sure this is a popular measure and not an unwanted level of societal control; Killashanda's mission to deliver the crystal and repair their crystal organ makes her a good agent to check that out.
But I really can't get behind a book where the heroine falls madly in love with her kidnapper.
She's gonna get him back and tell him it's bad to kidnap, drug, and abandon people.
But no, she's really in love with him.
Apparently his world had some bad politics he was fighting so it's all good.
I love almost everything I've ready by Anne McCaffrey (the bright point of this book was the scout ship!), so I was really disappointed.On a writing note, I found the book to be a bit meandering and in need of a tight edit.
This had been one of my favourite Anne McCaffrey series and I wanted to do a reread of some of her work.While I love how outspoken Killashandra is and how she stands up to some of the sexism and bullshit she encounters, she is absolutely overdramatic and it is interesting to watch.
I enjoy McCaffrey's style and humour for the most part.It is definitely of its time though.
The cover on my old copy is...interesting.
And then the subtle comments about LGBT characters (who were all on the side of the villains) and Killashandra's reaction to finding out someone in her escort is bi really started to bother me towards the end.
Everything by Anne McCaffrey is good (IMHO) so my only ding on this is a completely personal preference, and shouldn't really dissuade readers (I almost feel guilty for nocking McCaffrey) but here goes.
I didn't want Killashandra to start dating other people or even be interested in anyone else after connecting with a particular character in the first book.
Second, I didn't like the plotline so much, because it stressed me out, and I have enough stress in my life.
So was it still captivating--yes, I just had this dream of a lead character and the author didn't do what I wanted (ha, imagine that).
After thoroughly enjoying the first in this series I was looking forward to exploring more of Killashandra's universe. I praised the first book for showing an empowered female character who owned her sexuality and whose story wasn't driven by romance. How disappointed I was to see the reverse in this book! Not only that, I found the whole thing such a slog to get through and resorted to speed reading the later chapters in between bits that looked interesting. A real shame after a stellar start.
I really liked this one. In the first book, Killashandra is on the annoying side of an immature primadonna aspirant. In this, I found her a much more likable character. She performed some acts of generosity and self-sacrifice in the last book, but in this one, she's again, much more likable. She is much more judicious and has a greater awareness and benevolence for the world outside of herself.The plot in this was very enjoyable. It's really a mystery novel in space where the last was more space opera.
A novel that left me with a huge smile on my face. Very different to the first novel and I wasn't enjoying it any where near as much to begin with but the last third of the book very nearly made this a five star on their own merit. It's been a while since I finished a book with such a sense of absolute satisfaction. To have managed that whilst successfully building a suspenseful and engaging fantasy mystery that doesn't tend towards the soppy that much.... McCaffrey did herself proud.
I loved this second volume Killashandra is a very endearing character. The author takes us from the realm of Ballybran to Ophteria while going through the Islands. In this book we find Killashandra which must be repaired an organ on Ophteria but it won't happen as planned, she will find himself in a strange situation and dealing with problems her blocking the road.
I LOVE Anne McCaffrey, but I love her more when the romance/love story is in the background and the adventure is first and foremost. I feel like this was a romance book first and sci-fi second. In her defense, i was warned of this in the description😊 and I chose to read it anyway... because I love her books!
This is the first novel I have read by Anne McCaffrey, but I was so impressed that it will not be my last. Many of the other reviewers suggested that the Crystal Singer be read first, and although I may have gone into the reading of this book with a better understanding, I don't feel that I was at much of a loss as this book does well as a stand-alone novel.
Anne McCaffrey was the first female fantasy/sci fi writer I ever read and as such she holds a special place in my heart. Her books are always wonderful, well written, and perfectly characterized. All of her series are great but I especially like the Crystal Singer series because of its action and clever look at the near future.
Good story! More fantasy than hard science fiction. No violence, killing, murder, etc. Very good adventure, discovery, imagination, etc. Wonderful characters, planets, aliens,etc.I'm not a big fan of McCaffery because of the romance she adds to all her stories. It's not a show stopper, but I usually skip-read past these pages.
I loved this series when it came out in the 80s. However, now it's showing its age. Jokes about rape are not acceptable. A kidnap victim and her captor falling in instalove, even after he punches her in the face is also not acceptable. It's well written but isn't a good fit with today's female readers.
This book was interesting because I liked the events, but it was hard for me to like Killashandra the character. The concept of crystal cutting and crystal singing fascinated me. I hope I like the character better in the next two books.
This book seemed to really drag for me. I didn't not like it very much. After this book I decided not to bother to read the 3rd in the series.
Some of the romantic bits were a bit Mills & Boon for my taste, but still a well-written Science Fiction story.
One woman turns half the galaxy upside down in her perpetual quest for food, sex and decent beer.
