https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/413467.The_Cowardly_Lion_of_Oz
So the racism comes from her.It's (maybe?) not as egregious as the Silver Islanders in Royal Book - mainly because we spend a lot less time with the Mudgers, who "if it were not for their bright blue whiskers, you would take them for Arabs" - but it's still bad.
We have Bob Up, Notta, the Stone Man, Nick, and the Cowardly Lion for our main characters, plus all the Mudgers besides the scolding wife of the king appear to be men.Darn it.Also, RPT seems to have a lot more annoying verses cluttering up her prose.
Unlike Baum's Oz books, which I loved as a kid and as an adult, this Oz-series entry from Ruth Plumly Thompson didn't click for my grown-up self.
Why does he talk about it so much?) In addition, Thompson's characters shout and scream and shriek a lot, which honestly made me feel like it must be awfully noisy in Oz. Does she not know any homonyms for talking in a normal voice?
It's still a bit manic, with lots of strange creatures being introduced seemingly just for the puns, not to move the plot forward, but the best thing about this book is that it finally gives the Cowardly Lion a starring role.
The last time the Lion as a character has been this important to a story was in the very first Oz book.
Since then, while the Tin Woodman and the Scarecrow have become main characters, along with other characters introduced after the first in the series, the Lion has been relegated to supporting player.
I thought this was a middle-of-the-road Thompson (only the third I've read, I admit) -- I didn't like it as much as Kabumpo in Oz but liked it more than The Royal Book of Oz. She does do a good job of remaining true to Baum's characters and introducing new ones, so it was certainly fun to read, just perhaps lacking a bit in the charm of Baum's books.
Thompson appears to be improving her writing as she goes along expanding Baum's world of Oz. Again she has introduced new characters, but this time they have a purpose in capturing the Cowardly Lion for a lion obsessed Mudge. The ending is a little weak and extremely abrupt, but on teh whole this is a likeable addition ot the series.
I have mixed feelings about this particular Oz book. I was never that fond of the Cowardly Lion as and to see him as a main character and not a supporting character was odd. Thompson's new characters and add-ons to Oz geography are wonderfully silly, however, and much enjoyed.
I'm done with this Oz continuation thing. It has not aged well. It's bad. Really bad and I'm out. DNF
Nowhere close to the charm, magic, and inventiveness of the originals. These books should not be considered Oz canon.
Book 17
