https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5019.The_Saturdays
After a page or two we really loved this book, we so enjoyed the different characters and how separate adventures happened in each chapter, each character taking their turn to enjoy the pooled allowance to spend in their own way.
But practicalities aside this was a lovely theme for the book and gave the opportunity for them each to take the lead role in their chapter.
Despite our copy not having the author's illustrations we so enjoyed the story, we really enjoyed Mrs Oliphant's story of being kiddnapped by gypsies, Rush's trip to the opera, finding a homeless dog, and the end trip to a lighthouse was wonderful.
I don't know if I think this book is practically perfect because I know it by heart, because I love each and every one of the characters, or because the writing is stellar.
It's particularly odd to read about a family who lives in New York City who have a house and a yard and who are decidedly not rich.
I'm impressed with the sheer staying power Enright's images have- so many things I remembered as crisply as if I'd read them for the first time last week.
The vignettes are very vivid, and in a lot of ways I think this book is a love poem to a vanished New York.
Elizabeth Enright captures the drama, joy, and adventure of childhood in the books that make up her Melendy family series—true classics of children’s literature.  The Saturdays , originally published in 1941 and the first novel in the series, introduces us to the New York City based family: Mona (13), Rush (12), Miranda/“Randy” (10), Oliver (6), Mr. Melendy (a writer), Cuffy (the beloved housekeeper), and Willy Sloper (the handyman, who maintains the old coal furnace). The story begins on a rain
Elizabeth Enright captures the drama, joy, and adventure of childhood in the books that make up her Melendy family series—true classics of children’s literature.
, originally published in 1941 and the first novel in the series, introduces us to the New York City based family: Mona (13), Rush (12), Miranda/“Randy” (10½), Oliver (6), Mr. Melendy (a writer), Cuffy (the beloved housekeeper), and Willy Sloper (the handyman, who maintains the old coal furnace).
They meet up with Mrs. Oliphant (an old family friend who knew their parents when young and who, herself, had a very surprising adventure of her own in childhood).
For some people who only read YA or adult books, this might not be for you, but if you liked The Moffats when you were a kid, or other books like those, and still do, you will probably love these books.The characters all seemed so real.
I probably always will.) One of the best things was having a character who plays the piano excellently, writes music (in later books), and enjoys opera, all at the age of twelve.
That was probably one of my favorite parts of the book, finding out that the character likes opera.
Rereading this classic was wonderful! The Melendy's are a delightful bunch, full of spunk, fun and have a tendency to get into trouble.
Elizabeth Enright's books are exactly the kind I would want to write if I wrote children's books. And her characters' adventures are exactly the kind I would want to have if I could be a kid again.
This is funny and warm and happy and exciting - and really well-written - and a great example of the "summer book" genre -I have no idea why it took me so long to reread this.
By the way, Mona gets her hair cut and styled and her nails done for $1.50.
Mostly, though, the Melendys run around in a glorious idyllic sprawling city, where the days are long and the people exciting.I'm not sure if that's what summers were like for me, or if that's just how I remember them.
Either way: this is a nostalgic read.
This last year I read it again with my 5 year old daughter and it has only gotten better on the second pass.The story is of four children from the ages of 6 to 13 in 1930s New York City who have decided to pool their weekly allowance.
But I believe the the book is much more than the value of that story line for both them and adults - Enright's writing is beautiful at times and downright funny at others.
This was not an obvious choice as a read-aloud for a nine-year-old boy (it was one of those times when I didn't have a book for him waiting on deck, and had to delve into my own shelves in desperation), but it worked surprisingly well, even the beauty parlor chapter.
The book itself is a wonderful love letter to New York City as it was 70 years ago.
The occasional World War II references completely escaped me the dozens of times I read it as a child; as far as I was concerned it took place in an eternal now.
Delightful. 1941 - four siblings decide to pool their allowance and each Saturday one takes it all (a whopping $1.50) to do something special - go to a museum, an opera, the circus. A Very special book filled with great warmth and good humor. Episodic and easy to read, this is a classic for good reason.
Sweet story. The Melendy family is a good example on how to treat each other and admit your faults. I definitely recommend this for all kids.
As the book continues, we get to see what each kid chooses to do on his or her Saturday; Oliver even has quite an adventure of his own.
Enright writes about how things look or smell or sound in a way that's concrete and delightful; passages like this reminded me of similarly satisfying bits in some of my favorite kids' books, particularly L.M. Boston's Green Knowe series: [The rain] plinked and splashed and ran in long curly streams down the skylight.
Mona 13 spends her fair share of pooled Saturday allowances on professional haircut and manicure.
concerned about yourself" selfish p 101, Mona rushes from part-finished supper in tears, has to apologize for "vanity" p 102 and scrape hands raw.
(hide spoiler)]Saturdays can make dreams come true "a door opening into an enchanted country" p 19 when the Melendy children take turns to spend their pooled allowances in WW2 New York City of horse-mounted policeman and nursery fires.
For acceptable "girly" behavior, Mona's family jeers her away from unfinished supper into tears, forcing an apology to Cuffy for "extreme vanity".
One rainy Saturday, Randy gets the idea of pooling their resources: each Saturday, one of the four will get all of the allowances, resulting in a sum that, in the 1940s, is enough for a ticket to the opera or ballet, and various other adventures besides.
Along the way, they also discover that the most enjoyable experiences are sometimes serendipitous (and free), and they make many new friends on their adventures.This was lovely!
I’d also recommend them to fans of E.
I wish I could go back and recommend them to my childhood self!
I had read the rest of the series but had somehow skipped this first one, so I finally read it and enjoyed it immensely!
There's an often absent but loving father; a strict but kind housekeeper/cook/nanny, and of course the children: Thirteen-year-old Mona who is going to be an actress; Twelve year old Rush, a piano prodigy who wants to make music AND be an engineer; Randy (Miranda) age 10 1/2, who dances like a fairy and wants to be both an artist and a dancer; Olivier, age 6, thoughtful and determined.
Bored with their ordinary lives, the Melendys decide one rainy Saturday afternoon to pool their resources to give each of them a chance of experience a day of doing something they had always dreamed of.
I loved the eccentric Melendy family.
Cleanliness:Attitudes/Disobedience - 8 Incidents: A girl tells a lie because “she was enjoying being difficult.” A girl disobeys her father in order to see the circus.
A boy and girl decide to run away from an abusive step-mother.
A boy decides to go to the circus without telling anyone.
A boy is frustrated so bangs on the piano.Conversation Topics - 5 Incidents: One of the main girls in the story wants to be a dancer someday.
Along the way, the children make a few mistakes but learn valuable lessons about character and what's important.For a full cleanliness report, which includes Children's Bad Words, Religious & Supernatural and Romance, visit my website.
Like Swallows and Amazons, it had a family doing adventurous things that I would never have the chance to, partly because of the accidents of location.
I always loved the idea of the book too: the children pool their pocket money and then each have one Saturday to do something delightful.The Melendys aren’t cookie-cutter children, by any stretch of the imagination.
But they are also one of the literary families whom it is a delight to know.
It’s always hard to know what to do with books like this one, once much loved that still have a familiarity to them, but which have the potential to hurt other readers as well.
A simple tale of four children living in NYC during the 1930s.
Like almost all books set before circa 1980s it shows children who know how to entertain themselves, creatively.
Reading books that show children doing just that makes for great reading.
The author, Elizabeth Enright in her introduction confesses being an only child, but perfectly pegs what a rambunctious household with four children looks and sounds like.
It's such simple story that her theatrical reading improved the experience for my older children, who found the story a little childish.
This book would be good for children from kindergarten to about 5th grade.
Just the children, sometimes with the dog, and the backyard or playground.Reading The Saturdays reminds me a lot of my own childhood.
Running around and playing in the dirt with the native children of Papua.
Climbing up the trees so high that once I even managed to walk to our house's roof from a tree branch.
:)In The Saturdays, although they are living in the big city of New York, the simplicity of life and the innocence of children are there.
I love the way the Melendy children are portrayed in the story, their relationship with each other, and their adventures.
Somehow I missed out on Elizabeth Enright while I was growing up, an oversight I intend to avoid for my children!
"The Saturdays" is exactly what children's literature should be: innocent, erudite, interesting, and fun.
I enjoyed reading about a New York City in which 10 year olds could be allowed out on their own without anyone calling the cops having the parents arrested for endangerment and neglect.
I will be keeping my eyes open for used copies of this and the other books in the series: I think my kids will love them when they're 8 or 10 years old, and if they don't - well, I'll enjoy them anyway!
I love these books.
I hate, hate, hate the new covers.
Hate.
What in the world could be better than Maginel's little girl's watercolors?
Ahem.Oh how I love Enright's books.
This one has a special place in my heart, naturally.
This one has the alligator!
Oliver!
The bob!
The opera- though even Enright failed to make me appreciate opera in real life.One must never forget Enright's keen eye for botanizing.
One can rest assured that if Enright says it's blooming, then it is in fact blooming at just that season in just that locale.
A virtue far to seek lately.
March 28, 2008 Well, as this is a library book and as I'm becoming toooo busy with wedding-preparations, I have to stall on this one. But, I'll hope to return someday as it began very sweetly.So nice to read a book about children who knew how to be creative with thier childhoods; knew how to play and be imaginative. (This was written in the early 40s!) So far, reminds me a bit of an "All-of-a-Kind Family" sort of tale. We shall see how it progresses...
Sweet, lighthearted story about four likable children and their adventures in 1940s New York City (which are nearly impossible to fathom...9yo going out on her own for the day?!?). My 8yo wasn't super into this but the 5yo *loved* it and was begging to listen to more Melendy stories.
Lovely, charming book! I loved reading about 1940s city life and all the adventures the Melendy kids have. Great fun.
This series was my absolute favorite as a kid - loved just as much as an adult!
This is a quaint fun read about times just after WW II.
The children have decided they are old enough to go off on their own.
So they develop the Saturday club.
They pool their allowances and each Saturday one child is able to go out to enjoy whatever they choose.
Rush, Mona, Randy and Oliver have adventures each Saturday.
Oliver, the youngest, even had his own adventure.
The family was frantic when they could not find him, however, all turned out quite well.I don't know if children of today would enjoy this book.
However, I am from a different time and love reading even children's books.
This book was just cute and pure. Enright was, no doubt, a very talented wordsmith, and she put together a wholesome story of children looking for adventure. As I finished, I realized that the characterization of each child (complemented by the excellent audiobook performer) was so complete and unique that I could identify each child’s responses without noting who said them. That is masterful writing. I may check out the following books.
Ah, the memories this book brings back.... This was one of my favourite childhood books, and it's such a joy to revisit it! It's such a delightful, darling little book and I just love the four Melendy siblings and their adventures. I love books about big families (probably because I'm part of one myself) and this book does not disappoint. It's just so sweet and wholesome and humorous.
Feeling conflicted about this one - it was one of my favorites as a kid so I re-read it when I was back home this summer.
It was a quick read and took me back to why I used to love it — children my age having adventures, yes please!
At the same time, it was delightful to read about a time where stranger danger didn’t interfere with childhood joys.
Not sure if I’d recommend it or not; my favorite by this author is probably Gone-Away Lake.
