https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7821447-sh-t-my-dad-says
Are you any more likely to be injured if I typed "fuck" instead of "f*ck?" There's this really stupid notion that asterisks somehow cleanse a word.
When I type fuck I have no intent to offend, it's just a silly word, an expression.
The story of when his father took little Justin to a lecture he was giving on thyroid cancer to a bunch of doctors is hysterical.
It just means right now, I like silence more." Or the scene with the complaining father at Little League, or the teacher who didn't want to teach.
I'm pretty sure the blurb takes care of whatever curiosity most readers have, but (if you're too lazy to read the blurb) the short version is that Justin started Tweeting the shit his dad said.So, yeah.Halpern senior is smart & funny, but I think the thing that everyone loves is the way he just says whatever he's thinking without caring about any social repercussions.
But if you're one of those readers who just has to take a moral lesson away from everything you read, then here's what I took away from this one: actions speak louder than words.Sure, Justin's dad cuts him (and everyone else) very little verbal slack.
It looks like two squirrels crawled on their head and started fucking.”On Canine Leisure Time“The dog is not bored.
He’s a goddamned dog.”My father-in-law, also Jewish, looked like a less fierce version of Justin Halpern’s dad, and although he didn’t use the word “fuck” nonstop he also dispensed some acerbic wisdom here and there.
Halpern started writing a Twitter page to record the “shit” his father said.
“Then one day I woke up to find a thousand people were following me.
I said tell me what you want for Christmas, not make me a fucking college football poll.”
Politically incorrect, irreverent, with a liberal smattering of profanity, vulgar at times but oh so funny.
Probably many of us know someone just like Justin's dad, a truthful, no holds barred type of person but with a very big heart underneath.
A man who when it really counts will do, anything for his family.
This was a laugh out loud, amusing look at one such man, a self made man who came from poverty to working on cancer research in nuclear medicine, a man who has blunt advice for his son of most any occasion.So needed this amusing book after my last read, so thanks to my GR friends who posted their reviews and brought this book to my attention.
That’s the face of a man who hates himself.”What follows is a book that delivers pretty much everything I've been seeking: laugh-out-loud funny anecdotes, family, cursing, and so much more.Here are a couple more gems I'd like to share:On How to Tell When a Workout Is Complete“I just did an hour on the gym machine.
Even though you never met a goddamned one of them,” he said.”Sam Halpern really made me shift my whole view with just the one sentence: “You give a shit what all these people think, huh?
If you're looking for a swift and comical read that'll have you laughing out loud, Sh*t My Dad Says is the one.
2016 Genre Challenge : Non-FictionThis book was funny, or it had some laugh out loud moments.... But I think I went into expecting something a little different. I guess reading the blurb, I thought it would be about a twenty something guy living with his seventy four year old father and the antics of an older gentleman. In reality, this book was about the authors father and everything he remembers his father saying as he was growing up. It's like a reverse "my child's funniest phrases" book. For me, it was just alright.
Justin’s dad is Jewish and his mom a quiet, loving Catholic and though their child rearing approaches seem as different as their religions they make a good parenting team.
It’s like you’re the G**D***** SS I’m living in f****** Nazi Germany….”At the End of the Day, at Least You a Have a Family:“So, there you go.
Justin was the youngest of three sons and the last chapter of the book is the story of one of Justin’s love affairs gone awry and his dad comforting by telling the story of his first wife’s life and death.
I think when I heard the concept for this book I expected Sam Halpern to be kind of a dick.
Though he is really direct, I was shocked at how kind and loving Sam Halpern was.
As a parent, I related to SO much of this story.
And as a kid of parents who are still very much involved in my life, I also related to Justin, too.
I really got the dynamic between Sam and Justin, and I found myself smiling and nodding along the entire time I was listening.
“Snausages? I’ve been eating dog treats? Why the fuck would you put them on the counter where the rest of the food is? Fuck it, they’re delicious. I will not be shamed by this.”  This is Sam Halpern, father of Justin Halpern, the author. He's very blunt and unapologetic. “I don't need more friends. You got friends and all they do is ask you to help them move. Fuck that. I'm old. I'm through moving this shit.”  He cares deeply about his son's welfare. “Don't touch that knife. You never need to b
You never need to be holding a knife...
I don’t give a shit if she said you could have it, that’s what she’s supposed to do, and you’re supposed to say, ‘No, I insist.’ You think I’m gonna drive around with my wife in the backseat and a nine-year-old in the front?
"On Yard Work: What are you doing with that rake?...
Different styles of raking?
They’re throwing people in the fucking gas chamber, and you want a Skittles?” “On Sharing: I’m sorry, but if your brother doesn’t want you to play with his shit, then you can’t play with it.
It’s his shit.
On Deciding to Use His Senior Discount for the First Time“Fuck it, I’m old. Gimme free stuff.” When 28-year-old Justin Halpern’s girlfriend breaks up with him and he loses his apartment too, he finds himself moving back in with his parents. His 73-year-old dad Sam is retired and spends his days at home, so the guys spend a lot of time together. Halpern Senior has an opinion about everything and doesn't sweet-talk his way around it, he says exactly what he's thinking and doesn't give a shit abou
His 73-year-old dad Sam is retired and spends his days at home, so the guys spend a lot of time together.
Halpern Senior has an opinion about everything and doesn't sweet-talk his way around it, he says exactly what he's thinking and doesn't give a shit about what other people think of him.
Hence the idea to make a book - it consists of anecdotes from Justin's childhood all the way to the present, and after each story are a couple random quotes.
However, underneath that tough barrier is a kind, old man who loves his family more than anything.
The kids are happy and successful and they love their old man.
When I first picked up Sh*t My Dad Says, I had no idea it originated from Halpern's twitter page.
Hindsight being 20/20 and all, I can see why the twitter page, which compromised of random quotes from Halpern's dad, would be a hit.
So, in that context the quotes found in Sh*t My Dad Says are funny.
What was once humorous as an occasional tweet, turned into just a very vulgar book.My biggest issue with Sh*t My Dad Says is that most of the quotes were directed towards Halpern when he was a child.
Review posted on Got Fiction?I bought this for my husband and I later found it in the bathroom (choice male reading space).
So my husband endorses the hilarity of this book too ;)Holy crap is this book hysterical!
His dad comes off as some redneck jerk of a dad, but actually used to be in nuclear medicine!
So the book is fun and funny and apparently great bathroom reading.
Wondering who's going to take over for David Sedaris now that he's moved to France and used up all his family anecdotes? Justin Halpern is here to save us. Shit My Dad Saysis basically, one of the funniest things I've read in a long time. He truly demonstrates how a skilled writer can take his Twitter feed and turn it into a legitimately hilarious, well written, and poignant read.
Re-read only a few months later :-POriginal read: December 2016Re-read: Feb 2017Listened to this with my brother when I rode with him to work and with my mom when we went shopping..
both gave me"WTH are we listening to?" look but they laughed too so I count it as a win:)If you are sensitive to swearing, this book does have quite a bit but never in a mean wayJustin's Dad grew on me fairly quickly..
---Original review:Great audiobook for my book-slump and not feeling good (my allergies/sinus seem to love so much every December that they keep re-visiting).
I cannot remember the last time I laughed this hard.
The audio was fantastic.
I'm pretty sure anyone who saw me at the Y today has solidified their opinion that I must be a total lunatic.
It was that funny!This dad is an enigma: clearly brilliant, yet seemingly unable to string together three words without using profanity.
The title is incredibly apropos, as this dad says the word shit or discusses bowel movements almost constantly.
This audio was just what I needed after many heavy reads.
I laughed a lot.
I'm not sure what that says about me but that's it!
Την ομότιτλη σειρά ποτέ δεν έκατσα να τη δω, ενώ έπρεπε να περάσουν πάνω από πέντε χρόνια από τότε που κυκλοφόρησε στα ελληνικά το βιβλίο για να το αγοράσω (έναντι δυο ευρώ από κάποιο παζάρι βιβλιοπωλείου - με τόσα λεφτά ούτε ζαμπονοτυρόπιτα δεν παίρνει κανείς).
Και πέρασαν πάνω από δυόμισι χρόνια από τότε που το αγόρασα για να κάτσω να το διαβάσω.
Ευχαριστήθηκα για τα καλά όλες αυτές τις κουλές ιστορίες του συγγραφέα για τον τρελό και ανορθόδοξο αλλά συνάμα φοβερό πατέρα του, ενώ πλάκα είχαν οι "σοφιστείες" λίγων γραμμών του πατέρα Χάλπερν για πολλά και διάφορα θέματα.
This book's first mistake was making a joke of which I found in particularly bad taste.
The worst thing you can do is offhandedly pick on someone, and then expect people to laugh.Especially since I hold a sort of respect for said person.Moving on,Let's Give You Fifty Tonics and Hope You'll Like OneMany tv shows have decided to do this now.
Let's throw a bunch of jokes at the audience and hope that they'll laugh at all of them.I laughed three or four times throughout this book.
It's easy to understand how he got that way (with a dad like that, who wouldn't?) but that doesn't stop it from being annoying as hell.
After all, I don't like vulgar books.
On the other hand, I get pretty depressed about all of these humorous blogs being essentially repackaged as “books” and sold*.
Maybe that’s the next big thing, but there’s a large part of me that feels like a bunch of lowest common denominator type jokes loosely strung together does not a book make.If you didn’t catch on, that was my passive aggressive way of saying that I hate this book and everything that it stands for…which actually goes a long way toward explaining why I hate this book.
4 Stars!Seen this floating around on GRs and needed a laugh so I grabbed it. If you're wanting a laugh this is a quick read that will have you giggling in no time! Justin's dad is a hoot! If you don't like cussing in books then I'd stay away from this one because Justin's dad loves to say fuck! Everybody knows that's one of my favorite words so it didn't bother me at all. lol I loved this! I will probably be reading the next one called More Shit My Dad Says when I'm in need of more giggling. lol
Throughout the pithy and vulgar thoughts on the mundane of everyday life that Mr. Halpern's father rants about, one can see that this is a dad who loves his son and only wants what is best for him.If you put aside the crude language, which is where much of the humor comes from, you will see that Mr. Halpern's father actually has some pretty sound ideas about the world and this thing we call life.

I do not have gutter humor but both I and my 17 year old daughter who does thought it was hilarious.
Warning, this is not rated G and not always completely PC (although most times it actually is, as the father says it's okay to be gay and to cry).
Tell her I yelled at you and called you a moron.
Actually, don't tell her anything.
I know that scent, and let me tell you, it's disturbing to smell your wife on your thirteen-year-old son.'"
Όλοι ξέρουμε έναν άνθρωπο στον οποίο αξίζει να γραφτεί πάνω του ένα βιβλίο.
Για τον Justin Halpern είναι ο βρομόστομος αλλά και πανέξυπνος πατέρας του, ένας άντρας που όλοι θα θέλαμε για φίλο, αλλά όχι για γείτονα μας.
Μέσα από μικρές ιστορίες μαθαίνουμε τι του αρέσει, τι τον εκνευρίζει, αλλά και το ποσο άβολα και ιδιόρυθμα δείχνει την αγάπη του στα παιδιά του.
Το βιβλίο διαβάζεται μονορούφι ( μιλάμε για πολύ γέλιο !!!) .Και όπως δηλωσε και ο ίδιος ο πατερας του συγγραφέα στον γιο του : « Ελπίζω να ενδιαφερθεί κανεις να το διαβάσει.
Alright, alright I should've known better than to read a book with a title like that.
But I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say that if you took out all the sentences that had a swear word in it you'd have maybe 20% left (at most).
But it was like laughing at a 10 year old boy's fart jokes at times.
They held my attention but nothing compelling, which happens most of the time when I read non-fiction books.
If I rate this book purely for entertainment I'd give it 2 ½ maybe 3 because I was entertained but bothered at times by the language and a few of the stories.
Having grown up with a curt sarcastic father, I thought I'd enjoy reading the snide comments of and family stories about someone else's terse sardonic dad. Although I laughed out loud several times as I read this, there was such an undercurrent of mean-spiritedness that I found it unsettling, and the book ultimately undoes its own humor.
Got this book this morning in Morrison's from the donation table and I've read it through laughing all the way. :)Justin Halperns Dad is an absolute star. He is wise, honest, funny, angry, protective of his home, the part where he is crawling naked on floor with a shot gun at 2am because he heard a noise in the kitchen had me in stiches.:) He is foul mouthed (he says the f word ..a lot) and I love him to bits.Thank you Justin Halpern for introducing your magnificent Dad to me, he is hilarious. :)
This book is fucking amazing! Shit. Am I swearing too much after reading it? Well, FUCK!P.S. Seriously though, I loved this book. It's funny, heartwarming and full of wisdom. The fact that this guy exists makes me want to hug the world. Also, it can double as a parenting manual.
One of the funniest books of 2011 and it's based on a Twitter account.
I love a well turned phrase & how Sam, Justin's dad, thinks.
The second time it was returned by my son in pieces in a baggie.
I followed up with a visit in which the teacher returned to the class fuming.
I even got my dog, Lily, pretty much the same way.Justin did a great job of putting this all together.
I don't know if the gravelly voice he gave Sam is anything like the real thing, but it worked really well.It's short, a good thing.
There was enough time to get to know Sam without getting worn out by too much of the same thing.
I have avoided this book for so long, thinking that it would be lame, like Stuff White People Like: A Definitive Guide to the Unique Taste of Millions, but then Audible was having a sale, and this was like $4, AND they had recently credited me $10 for being awesome...
I fucking loved listening to the shit that Justin Halpern's dad said.
So I appreciated Sam Halpern, and only wish that my dad was as witty.
So I think I'll be picking up "More Shit My Dad Says" one of these days (when Audible has another sale.
