https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14267.Iceland_s_Bell
Contrarily to the detached style of his prose, the themes treated in the book are anything but superficial: questions about the existing institutions, the fairness of law, trials and legal procedures, so subject to politics and superstitious tradition, the role of the state in the development of a country, the importance of folklore in the making of a national ethos or the concept of freedom are brought up in a surreptitious manner, evoking the eighteenth century French satirists and philosophers.There is neither a whiff of glorification of the past nor of Icelanders of yore in Laxness’ terse prose, but he takes good care of his protagonists, in spite of showing the vices and weaknesses that make them look contemptible most of the time.
As três personagens principais: Jón Hreggvidsson - um agricultor “ingénuo”, facilmente irritável, mas insubmisso perante os homens e a autoridade por eles exercida, é acusado de ter assassinado o carrasco do Rei da Dinamarca, que foi enviado para a Islândia, com a tarefa de confiscar o símbolo da sua independência, o sino de Þingvellir (Thingvellir ou Pingvellir), sendo sentenciado à morte.
A mestria de Halldór Laxnees reside na conjugação das três partes - "O Sino da Islândia", "A Donzela Loira" e "Incêndio em Copenhaga" - escritas originalmente e agrupadas neste romance, numa narrativa esplendorosa e desconcertante, que se aglutina nos capítulos finais, num contraste perfeito entre o conflito e a tenacidade das personagens - inspiradas em figuras históricas.
He even pulled the van into a tourist stop with a tiny book shop way out in Iceland's amazingly beautiful wilderness, so that I could get a book to begin reading immediately.
The characters were so real to me---Snaefridur, or "Iceland's sun", a beautiful, strong young noble woman who was both constrained by her society and had the gumption to make her own way against proscriptions, has been added to my list of most interesting female characters in books.I heartily recommend this book.
The prose was good enough that I read many passages aloud to my husband just for the enjoyment of the writing.
It may be that thye most victorious race is the one that is exterminated."And under Danish rule, Iceland did come close on several occasions to being utterly annihilated, from plague and smallpox; from the volcanic eruption at Lakagigur in the 1780s that led to an even more vicious plague; and starvation.Laxness is not only a great Icelandic and Scandinavian author: He is perhaps one of the very best novelists of the Twentieth Century -- period!
E cada uma delas tem um propósito final no sentido de cuja consecução a narrativa evolui - Jón procura a sua absolvição, Snæfríður resgatar a honra e bom nome do juiz seu pai, Arnas preservar a identidade do seu povo indómito.Confesso que o livro não me prendeu desde o início, apenas aos poucos fui desvendando os significados do que estava a acontecer e talvez só o tenha compreendido em toda a sua plenitude já próximo do final.
За това допринася и преводът на Айгир Сверисон - наполовина исландец, наполовина българин, потомък на славен исландски род, както става ясно и от една от бележките под линия.
Един селянин бедняк, крадец и вероятно убиец, чието митарстване из Исландия, Холандия и Дания е една истинска одисея.
В края на книгата е приложено писмо до него от селянина Йон Хреквидсон, в което той разказва патилата си, послужили за основа на "Камбаната на Исландия".Има много цитати, които си отбелязах, но някои от тях заслужават особено внимание.
Тя може да има добър или лош стопанин според случая.Плюя върху Ония Големите, които съдят грешно - рече Йон Хреквидсон.
It is fitting that we started with a novel by Laxness, the only Icelandic citizen to be awarded the Nobel Prize for literature.This is the story of Iceland during the 17th and 18th centuries, when it was poverty-stricken and controlled by Denmark.
The bias against Icelanders causes all sorts of problems for the central characters, who are imprisoned, beaten, have property stolen from them, and are generally treated like trash.
I've heard that Laxness writes differently in every novel, so I'm looking forward to another experience.For the foodies: beyond generic foods like shark, soup, and steak being mentioned, one meal starts with bowls of raisin porridge.
1700s in Iceland was not a happy place.
Famine, epidemics and the ruling Danes doing everything to get rid of the place.
Even the wealthiest of Icelandic folk live very modestly.Written in three parts.
The second part focus's on the beautiful noblewoman Snaefridur and the last on Arnaeus a collector of books.
Hreggvidsson's story looks at the injustice that exists, the harshness of life and the stoicism of the Icelandic people.
The second and third parts focus on the relationship between Snaefridur and Arnaeus.
Mais um dos bons livros de Laxness, onde nos conta a história da Islândia, Pais colonizado e escravizado pelos vizinhos Noruegueses, isto na perspectiva de um homem e a sua longa luta pela prova da sua inocência. Demasiado extenso mas recomendo.
The historical/real-life character of Arni Magnusson goes everywhere to collect scattered pages of vellum manuscripts and lost Icelandic books, finding them by visiting other characters, as the items could be in a barn or even a mattress stuffing.
A third plot brings in both Arni and Snaefidur onto opposing sides for or against the historical, shadily accused farmer Jón Hreggvidsson, who seems to accept the label of bad guy and whose case being retried time and again over thirty years catapults him between Iceland's Althing and Denmark's king.
Otherwise the poverty, the hardscrabbleness (the description of an old women's bed near the beginning of the book is absolutely revolting), the infanticide, the disease, the floggings, the executions, would have been a bit hard to take.At the novel's center are several criminal and civil cases which take years to resolve, making this a sort of 17th century Icelandic Bleak House.But I never really warmed to the characters' lack of psychological depth (this is intentional, Adam Haslett informs us in the introduction, as Laxness is creating his own version of an Icelandic saga).
It made everything feel very remote.
I've never read a better historical novel, free of anachronisms and sentimentality, witty yet never 'light history,' as are too many historical novels written these days. Laxness writes such vivid, complex characters and depiction of life in the 17th century, when Iceland was under the heel of the Danes -- scorned in every way yet unbowed. The narrative sags in places, but is well worth one's patience. Joh Hreggvissson, Snaefridur, Arnas Arnaeus, are all unforgettable. I will be reading more Laxness, for sure.
Laxness writes this historical novel with such passion, honesty, and dark humor that the result feels like a complex love declaration, for a country whose people were everywhere despised as "that collection of lice-ridden beggars on that shithole up north", but who persevered and preserved their literary traditions out of pride and something deeper, as exemplified by Snæfríður's speech:  "Why won't the king of Denmark leave us our names?
I will admit that at times I struggled with this novel, at times I thought I would never finish it, but now that I have finished it I feel exactly how I felt when I finished Laxness' more widely known Independent People: I cannot wait to read this masterpiece of literature again.
On the one hand, all three have their interesting aspects and all three have fairly strong central characters, but it's hard to enjoy the first plotline once you taste of the second and the third.
In the end, I found myself wanting to read only about the love-story thread (interestingly enough), rather than the summary accredited main character, Jon Hreggvidsson.The problem is that the story often feels very distant.
I found myself bored by his many antics and wanting to read more from the two other stories, rather than working my way through a bizarre journey across Europe.Yet even with my difficulties, I enjoyed the book.
While I admittedly learned quite a lot about Iceland and its people, I wouldn't want to read this book again, and I wouldn't recommend it either.
There is a difference between writing in great detail about hard or sad lives, and actually making the reader feel as devastated as the people in the book.
I did have to look up a lot of things that were mentioned (and I learned more through looking up those things than through the book itself), but I still didn't make any important connections that would have helped me understand the characters, their emotions, or their motives.What did not help at all was the writing style of the book.
Obra-primaTexto para o Diário Digital:http://oplanetalivro.blogspot.pt/2012...
Laxness publie la trilogie Íslandsklukkan, La cloche d’Islande : le destin de Jón Hreggviðsson, présumé assassin de l’envoyé du Roi. Ce même envoyé qui, quelques jours plus tôt, a fait fondre la cloche de Þingvellir, symbole national de l’indépendance Islandaise.
Autour de Jón le vengeur gravitent plusieurs personnages, notamment Arnas Arnaeus, qui n’est autre qu’Árni Magnússon, l’un des héros de l’histoire islandaise : il compila toute sa vie des vieux manuscrits de sagas dans sa bibliothèque danoise, et permit leur sauvegarde et leur copie.
Arnas Arnaeus bat la campagne, de ferme en ferme, pour trouver des bouts de vélins sur lesquels se trouvent inscrites les vieilles sagas.
The individual stories interact with the larger history beautifully, never losing sight of the human dimension of the robustly drawn, well-developed characters.One reservation: I read the book fresh off a trip to Iceland, and so with at least a passing awareness of important places and people in Icelandic history.
This added a quality of richness to the story for me, and I imagine I would have found the book a bit opaque at various point without this.
With my tourists view of Icelandic history, I found I rarely needed it, which is great as I personally hate having to do this kind of reference work in a work of fiction.
Iceland's Bell n'est pas le roman le plus connue de ce laureate du Prix Nobel de 1955. Cet honneur va a Gens Independent. Cependant Iceland's Bell est mon favori. Tout le monde crie contre le colonialism. Tres peu decrit la bête et ses methodes avec autant de precision que celle de cet écrivain rouge foncé.
Laxness has given us a crazy, wonderful, hysterical, silly account of an historical lawsuit in Iceland. Follow the misadventure of poor Jon Hreggvidsson as he gets kicked all over Europe by nasty upper crust rotters and smug Danes. My favorite Laxness novel...
4.5Nordic angst is the best. ვრცელ რივიუს მოგვიანებით დავწერ თუ მოვიცალე :დ
Mais tarde é preso por ter difamado o rei, mas o que se arrasta na justiça durante mais de trinta anos é o julgamento onde é acusado de ter assassinado o carrasco do rei, o mesmo que o obrigou a retirar e destruir o sino da Islândia, em Þingvellir.O julgamento, e todas as personagens que nele participam, directa ou indirectamente, vai servir de pretexto para conhecermos as condições de vida dos islandeses, a forma como viviam, o que pensavam e o que ansiavam.
Este livro vale pela história e pelo que nos dá a conhecer da Islândia e dos Islandeses.
Halldor Laxness is Iceland's Nobel-Prize winning author.
I struggled reading this and at times became lost in all the characters.
In addition, Icelandic people and place names can be very long and difficult to pronounce.
Besides this so much fat had piled up on the woman that she looked similar to a clay statue that has fallen from a shelf and compressed itself into a lump before being put in the kiln." It was work to read, but I'm glad I did.
What made the reading easier was the introduction by Adam Haslett and the notes at the end of the book.
And incidentally, on our recent trip to Iceland, our tour guide pointed out the house in which Halldor Laxness once lived.
ადგილი, სადაც მეტი მოჩვემება, ურჩხული და ქაჯია, ვიდრე ადამიანი; ადგილი, სადაც ზვიგენის ხორცს ნეხვის გროვაში ინახავენ და მერე ხეთქავენ; ადგილი, სადაც როცა მოშივდებათ, ფეხსაცმელს იხდიან და ღეჭავენ; ადგილი, სადაც მიწურებში ცხოვრობენ; ადგილი, სადაც ყოვლად გამოუსადეგარი ხალხი ცხოვრობს; ადგილი, სადაც მამები თავიანთ ქალიშვილებს უცხოელებს სთავაზობენ; ადგილი, სადაც ქალიშვილი უბიწოდ ითვლება, ვიდრე მეშვიდე ნაბიჭვარი არ ეყოლება. მოკლედ, ხელმრუდები, ცრუ და გაუტანლები, ბაქიები, ლოთები, გახრწნილები, ლაჩრები... ეს ყველაფერი ისლანდიასა და ისლანდიელებზე კარგად შეჯერებული და უპირობო აზრი იყო მე-17 საუკუნეში მცხოვრები დანიელებისთვის, შვედებისთვის, გერმანელებისთვის და ყველა სხვა ევროპელისთვის.ვრცლად: http://popularpopcorn.blogspot.com/20...
Another wonderful novel by Halldór Laxness, who is fast becoming one of my favourite modern authors.
Iceland's Bell feels in some ways like an Old Norse saga, yet it is written in a clearly modern style with superb use of wry, witty humour and hints of parody.
In many ways it is a dark tale, but thanks to Laxness' skilful prose, it never feels gloomy.
There is a wonderful sense of both period and place, and the story and its players held my interest from start to finish.
I have one more Laxness novel in already in my tbr pile, and I will certainly seek out more after that.
I don't know how to describe this book.
the story may not seem that thrilling or romantic, unless the reader can get down with the harsh reality of iceland under the danish boot.
the harsh conditions described by Laxness are that which constitute the culture and its history that he is also describing.
this makes the characters and the story interesting.
the narrative seems to translate well into english, but I have no idea.
i find the narrative compelling enough to want to keep reading and to want to read more of Laxness
Extremely well-written, but I found it very depressing. It was an "I want to slash my wrists" kind of book. I couldn't stand the way the people are treated by the occupying Danes, and how their love of their culture has been eroded. Laxness is such a good writer. You would have to be a good writer in order to take somebody on such an emotional roller-coaster.
Difficult to get through, but very rewarding if you stick with it. Easy to see why Laxness is one of the literary masters of his time.
This book was totally absorbing. It sounds boring, but isn't. Give it a shot- you won't regret it!

