https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24465724-happily-ever-after
It'$ not about the money, money, money.We don't need your money, money, money.We ju$t wanna make the fan$ read.Forget about the price tag.
OHMYGOD!!!!! THIS WILL BE FREAKING ILLUSTRATED!!!
I liked getting to see the relationship's form between him and America's maids Anne, Mary and Lucy and the respect they have for him and see the love they have for America.
Not necessarily with America but his dedication to America remains steadfast throughout EVERYTHING and he's caring, sweet and all around a wonderful person.Illustration of Aspen & What I picture he'd look like.
I love all the extra juicy details into there relationship and I really enjoyed seeing a few scenes that happened throughout The Selection series but through Marlee's eyes.
I loved getting a look into Lucy and Aspen's relationship and I am so happy that they ended up together.
The Maid: ★★★★Scenes from Celeste: ★★★★★The Prince: ★★★★★The Guard: ★★★★The Queen: ★★★★The Favorite: ★★★★★The One Epilogue: ★★★★★ THE MAID The Maid hace parte de los relatos cortos de La Selección que encontramos en el recopilatorio Happily Ever After.Esta historia nos muestra a Lucy y Aspen hablando seriamente del punto en el que se halla su relación. Los dos están enamorados, los dos han perdido un montón a lo largo de su vida y, por supuesto, los dos quieren evitar el ser heridos de nuevo por
The Maid hace parte de los relatos cortos de La Selección que encontramos en el recopilatorio Happily Ever After.Esta historia nos muestra a Lucy y Aspen hablando seriamente del punto en el que se halla su relación.
pero lo mejor de todo este relato es ver a Lucy plantándose firme y no dejando que Aspen juegue con ella por su confusión sobre America.
El punto con esta historia corta (QUE ES DEMASIADO CORTA Y ME PARECE FATAL PORQUE LA DE ASPEN TIENE MÁS PÁGINAS ¬¬) es que vemos a Maxon unas semanas antes de que empiece la Selección.
I liked that it showed the stressors Maxon has to deal with, his relationship with his parents, and his personal thoughts about the selection process and the girls.The Guard:Review from March 2014:★★★☆☆The Guard is a novella (#2.5) in author Kiera Cass's The Selection series.
I've been Team Maxon since book one and that hasn't changed for me, especially after reading this book.The Queen:Review from March 2015:★★★★☆The Queen is a prequel novella (#0.4) in Kiera Cass's young adult, dystopian series titled: The Selection Series.
The Queen gives quite a bit of insight into these two characters, and when compared to the series, does a great job of reinforcing the fairytale aspect of Maxon and America's love story.
I'm so happy to have finally read this!! Huge shout-out to Rizoli for lending it to me, by the way. This made me remember why I love Kiera Cass' writing so much. It's because I don't have to think at all and because it is so addictive. It took me so little time to read even though I'm so busy in school! It was also nice to be back in this world and the feels hit me hard with the pictures and the happiness and I just... I feel happy.
Oh my gosh. Loved this book so much!!! My favourite parts were The Favourite and After The One. Loved hearing from the different characters and seeing where they ended up. I LOVE KING MAXON!
Just be warned that there will be spoilers for The One.That was a lovely read!Mostly................The PrinceI miss Maxon.
Not like a mean jerk, but Lucy asked him if he still had feelings for America and such and he told her that "no" but his instinct to protect her would always be there.
I read it already and lost respect for Amberly and hated Clarkson even more.
Then she met an amazing man from New Asia, found love, and married him (not out of duty).
They had kids.The whole war in New Asia thing made me hate Clarkson even more.
There isn't much to say about this collection of novellas apart from wow. I'm Selection series trash. I adore it, despite how absolutely ridiculous the whole series is. I can never stop once I start. I absolutely adore the characters, with the exclusion of Aspen, and loved getting more perspectives of the original books. Plus more. If you're Selection trash like me, I highly recommend picking up this little extra. If not just for the snippet we get of Maxon and America after The One.
Enough is enough. This series is turning into a money trap. I feel so bad for people who bought the first collection. Let it go Ms Cass, please let it go...
I'M LIKE:
SO GOOD AHHHHFull review to come soon!
Honestly, this should've been more of a novella during the Selection told in Maxon's POV instead of making Daphne and her unrequited love for Maxon play even the slightest role in the story.
I was so disappointed when the story ended and honestly wouldn't mind it one bit if Kiera rewrote the whole book in Maxon's POV.
Unlike Aspen and Lucy's "relationship" in The Guard, we actually got to see Marlee and Carter's love 
As much as I loved reading Celeste's POVs, it made me even more upset that she didn't get a better ending.
I truly believe that Kiera Cass should've ended the series after America and Maxon's story.
The Queen (Amberly) - 1 StarThe Prince (Maxon) - 2 Stars The Guard (Aspen) - 1 StarThe Favourite (Marlee) - 1.5 Stars Celeste's POV - 2 Stars Lucy's Scene - 1.5 Stars Where Are They Now? - 2 Stars
While I wouldn't rate every story in this collection 4 stars, it was interesting to garner an insight into the other characters from The Selection series and further my understanding of their motives and actions.
I found some parts a little repetitive as alot of the scenes were featured in the main series but viewing them from an alternate perspective was fascinating.
Also, knowing the ending of each story did not impact my enjoyment of them, as I thought it might.
I love an author who takes the time to expand their fictional worlds in this way so this collection combined is wholly deserving of 4 stars.
This was such a cute collection of stories!
I loved getting to see more from some of my favourite characters from the Selection series and getting to know more about how their lives played out after the Selection.
I only have two small complaints about this collection.
The first being that two of the stories had been in a previous collection so I had already read them.
The second being that there was no story about Eadlyn!
I would have loved to have had a story about her life and marriage after her Selection.
Other than that I thoroughly enjoyed this book!
A solid addition to the series! I definitely recommend if you want to know the details behind the story :)
THIS IS LIKE BEYOND 5 STARS.ITS SO FREAKIN GOOD THAT I HAVE NO WORDS FOR IT OH GOD.I TOTALLY ADOOORE THIS BOOK!!!
In the end, they miss the chance to make their world better because they only see the worst in it.""She seemed paralyzed now, afraid of taking any kind of step because she didn't know what would fall apart along the way.""Yes, we still had a long way to go, but I knew it wouldn't feel that way if we were in it together.""I want her to stay.
It seems like everyone leaves when I need them to stay.""We know you're strong, but accepting help is its own kind of strength.""And I just thought that maybe I could give you a shot at a life that would be better than the one that I would have been able to give you.
If you enjoyed The Selection then this is a great compilation of different points of views on what happened.
What can I say? I freaking loved this bind up! It was everything I wanted and more!! I especially loved The Favourite... It was my favourite! I have a full review on my blog containing short reviews for each of the stories in the book, as well as an overall review! Check it out here :)
I usually don't like novellas or series add ons but I think this one is actually a great addition to this series. There is a lot more content than just novellas and the extra scenes from different characters were really enjoyable.
This was really cute. I loved the illustrations for each novellas and getting a glimpse at more characters (: I can never get enough of Maxon and America, but I think my favorite has to be The Favorite ❤
This was really cute. I loved the illustrations for each novellas and getting a glimpse at more characters (: I can never get enough of Maxon and America, but I think my favorite has to be The Favorite ❤️
The Queen: ★★★The Prince: ★★★The Guard: ★★★★The Favourite: ★★★★★Celeste: ★★★The Maid: ★★★After the One: ★★★★Where Are They Now?: ★★★Overall: ★★★★
I don't know if The Heir ruined this series for me or I'm just outgrowing these books, but this collection of Selection novellas wasn't as enjoyable as I expected it to be.I've always thought of Kiera Cass's books as addicting, cheesy, and lots of fun.
I didn't feel much excitement from reading about a young Queen Amberly and Aspen and Lucy's turmoil really wasn't that emotional.I used to think the romance in Cass's books was the sweetest, swooniest, most romantic thing in the world.
Jóó, bylo to fajn, moc mě to bavilo. :) Akorát jsem čekala, že se u Aspena bude vyprávět o jeho zamilování se do Lucy. Nebo jsem něco přehlédla...
I really enjoyed the concept of this book!The Queen was the first novella in the book, and it showed the romatic pairing of Queen Amberly (in her perspective) and King Clarkson.
The love between them was so well, necessary in some way that still showed they found there true soulmate.
I think even though Marlee did experience luxury, the first ever happy moment she shared was with Carter and that made the novella that much sweeter.The extras at the end gave the book a slight nodge up, especially yhe "After The One" scene which was probably my most loved scene in this book.4/5 stars
The first novellas titled The Queen tells Amberly's story when she was in the Selection process and I honestly thought she was treated like a dog.
How the hell does that happen?)I read The Prince and The Guard a few weeks back and really loved Maxon's story.
In fact I wanted more of it because Maxon is a guy for everyone.
It rehashed Aspen's and America's story and I didn't appreciate that.
I wanted Aspen and Lucy's story.
We then have a few scenes from Celeste's POV and a chapter from Lucy, America's maid who later falls in love with Aspen.
TODOS OS MEUS PENSAMENTOS AQUI: http://www.thebooktarian.com/2018/08/... (PORTUGUESE REVIEW)  Actual rating: 3,25   A Rainha:  2 estrelas O Príncipe:  4 estrelas O Guarda:  3 estrelas A Favorita: 3 estrelas Celeste: 2,5 estrelas A Aia: 2 estrelas Depois de A Escolha:  4 estrelas Onde Estão Agora: 3 estrelas
