https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33456.A_Dirty_Job
Christopher Moore - image from the Portland Mercury Charlie Asher is a pretty regular guy having a regular life, until he sees death hovering over his wife following the birth of their first child.
Strange things begin to happen and it takes a while before Charlie learns that he has been selected as a Death Merchant, a collector of the souls of those nearly or recently deceased.
It gets even weirder when he learns that his baby girl has a bit of power all her own.
And oh, yeah, he is pursued by creatures from below, sewer-harpies who long to return to the land above for a little bloodletting, with Charlie and his baby topping their menus.
For Hiaasen you have a huge dollop of quirkiness.
Charlie has also been appointed to be a death merchant.
Poor Charlie also needs to run his business, grieve for his late wife, take care of his newborn daughter, battle monsters and deal with lots of quirky people.This is a funny book, with a few memorable characters (sarcastic Goth girl Lily and a seven-foot black man who dresses in a green suit and goes by the name of Minty Fresh, to name a few – yeah, quirky); however, if it was half the length and had half the quirk, I’d have liked it even more.
Go read this book. Now. It's hilarious, you will not regret it. That is all the review it requires. =)
It seems to me that Moore wants to be a cross between Stephen King and Dave Barry, and for the first half of this book, he nearly succeeds.
This tends to be a consistent problem in all of his books I've read to date - he seems to value his own cleverness as far as crafting one-off jokes rather than trusting that humor will naturally arise from well crafted situations and characters.
In short, it feels like a first draft rather than a completed novel.However, his books do continue to grow in popularity (which should be no surprise to me given that "Two and a Half Men" is consistently in the Nielsen top 10).
Moore has a smart, comical way of writing that just tickles my brain in that oh so delicious way that makes me just love language even more, and this book does not disappoint.
And this book is set in San Francisco and is full of lovely little descriptions and anecdotes about the city (which had me snickering and nodding as I love SF, but even if you don't know the city, it will make you feel like you'd like to).
All in all, this book vies for the title My Favorite Moore Book, and definitely for one of the funniest books I've ever had the pleasure of reading.
I wanted to read Moore's book Lamb, but it was checked out so I picked up A Dirty Job instead.
It maybe was a bad sample of his work, but as luck would have it, it's what I read, wanting to stop in several places, but hoping it would redeem itself.
No such luck.
The book was hard to follow timewise-- basically you don't know if action is taking place over a week or 6 years.
In the end, my interest in reading any of Christopher Moore's other books has been permanently put to rest.
Such an odd story. The only bit I did not like was the very imaginative ending. I just can't deal with monsters and evil crow women or 50+ creatures made out of mixed animal parts. The characters were brillant. Funny situations and funny conversations. Loved the Russian and Chinese woman that looked after Sophie all the time "strong like bear"My favourite quote from the book has to be " Mrs Ling covered Sophie's eyes to shield her from the abomination her fathers' unwillingly journey into beastiliaty.
The job, unfortunately, comes with a shit-ton of problems, such as being suspected of murder; hellhounds unexpectedly manifesting in his home; sewer harpies taunting him at every turn; encounters with an army of small, nattily dressed chimera; the perpetual threat of the Forces of Darkness rising if he fails; and the disconcerting knowledge that his daughter can kill by simply pointing and uttering that most powerful and fear inducing of words: "kitty." Plus, "Hi, I'm Death.
It should be no surprise that people die in a book about death, but what may catch many off guard is the genuine respect Moore demonstrates for the passing of a human life and a keen understanding that "Most of us don't live our lives with one, integrated self that meets the world, we're a whole bunch of selves.
Moore is stringing together elements of his other novels and has recurring characters, all the more fun.A Dirty Job deals with the tale of Charlie Asher, the owner of an antique store in San Francisco who is a “beta male” as opposed to an alpha and he is raising his daughter alone following his wife’s death.
Moore includes elements of the strange and bizarre, mythological and fantastic characters (like the Irish Morrigan) and also Orcus of Advanced Dungeons and Dragons fame (and Roman and Etruscan myth).One of Moore’s better books, it is told with humor and warmth and would be a good introduction to his work.
I generally like my humorous reads to straddle the edge of believability, and this went a bit further than that.
I accept though the boundaries of other people's imaginations can stretch a lot further than mine.The book is slickly written and it tweaked my funnybone quite a few times.
I was fine with the sexual references.I confess it took me six weeks to read this book.
But my sluggishness had much more to do with my busy work schedule than the ease of the read.
Having cleared my work commitments, I ripped through the last third of the book today.
And occasionally, they need a soul.For such a funny book, Moore has put a really interesting metaphysical idea in this book.
Charlie Asher's job - his and the other Merchants of Death - is to make sure those souls are kept safe until their next owners come by to collect them.Of course, it's never quite that easy.
For a guy who makes a living writing funny fantasy/horror, Moore has done a very nice job at making his point.Oh, and I mentioned before the subject of his endings, how they usually seem to be kind of forced and too fast.
Check.Snoop Dogg aka Minty Fresh (yes, that is his real name) as a faithful sidekick.
Check.Hot bird creatures that give men hand jobs in dark alleys.
Check.Yep, this book has it all.Would I recommend?
Yes, totally.
But only if you’re into dark humor and don’t mind the whole death mood that Moore has going on.One of my favorite scenes in the book:(view spoiler)[
Mint Green Death sighed heavily.
Do you want some?” “Sure, try to lull me into a false sense of security, then spring.” “You’re tied the fuck up, motherfucker, I don’t need to lull you into shit.
It relies too much on a type of humor that won't tickle everyone.
The first section, 100 pages or so were almost exclusively this, without much plot.
While initially funny, I almost got tired enough of it to put it down, but there was just enough hope to keep me going.
I'm glad I did.
After that, the plot developed nicely & it was a fun read.
It's a neat world that Moore created with a fun mythology about Death & he takes an insider look at San Francisco that will tickle any native, I think.
The book started off with great premise: for some unknown reason a guy assumes the office/duties of DEATH.
and the plot started to smell like a Tarantino/Rodriguez action script complete with tall badass black man with big guns.One character, Lily, is a 16 year old in the beginning and then a 21 year old later and she goes from goth to chef sex therapist...
Maybe I'll appreciate Moore more after that.SPOILER ALERT *******I still thought the book was hilarious, but it's hard for me to believe the main character's inability to see his daughter as the Luminatis.
The main character is a white man but the supporting cast are all drawn from offensive stereotypes (racial and otherwise): a big black man who is sassy, violent and who gets accused of pulling "the race card" for no apparent reason; an old Russian grandmother who's always talking about bears and who steals a dead goldfish to fry up for her dinner; an elderly Chinese woman who can't pronounce Rs and who grew up in a village where baby girls were unceremoniously killed.
There's even a teenage girl character with an eating disorder she acquired from her time as a ballerina.
Charlie Asher (Beta Male) suddenly finds himself widowed after the birth of his daughter, Sophie.
No, he is not The Death, he is simply to collect the souls of the recenly departed and store them until they are ready to be placed with a new body.
He is a Death Merchant, or at least that is the name coined by Mr Fresh, the record store owner who collected his wife's soul.As if all of this wasn't enough, poor Charlie has to figure out how to keep his little girl from pointing at people and saying, "Kitty".
While I enjoyed the story line and found myself laughing out loud at some of the dialogue, this wasn't a book that kept me racing to the end. I'm happy I read it and would recommend it to others who are looking for a truly unique (and weird) read. I plan to give Moore another try in the near future...not sure which book yet.
I've read a couple of books by Christopher Moore, his masterpiece Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal and Practical Demonkeeping. I loved them both so I figured I'd pick this one up. "A Dirty Job" is very well put together, and a funny book, all right, but not hysterically funny as I was expecting it to be, oh well, that's personal. All in all, a solid novel, I liked it, 4 well deserved stars.
Honestly, the humor in this is otherwise really clever, why the hell did we need that (and other examples like that) Maybe I'm just easily offended, I dunno.Also, Lily having sex with Ray right in front of Charlie, because "Lily is a freaky chick and Ray is just desperate" was gross.
I love funny books, and this also falls under the "black comedy" genre, another favourite of mine.But honestly, why was the Teletubby scene mentioned.
This was cute and fun and delightful......until it wasn't.Here's the weird thing about this book.
I think I checked the CD out awhile ago, listened to it and then had a problem somewhere around disc 7.
So the lesson here is that beta males aren't cute and they shouldn't be encouraged, despite what this book would lead you to believe.Fisher Stevens reads this (remember him?
Minor quibbles.All and all, I enjoyed it 2.5 stars worth and will probably accidentally re-listen to it in five years when I forgot I've already read it.
Confieso que me daba miedo leerlo porque no estoy acostumbrada a los libros esencialmente humorísticos, pero a las dos o tres páginas se me pasó el prejuicio y me di cuenta de que valen la pena, sobre todo cuando estás sepultada entre libros y papeles que se toman el mundo demasiado en serio.
De ahí a que entienda qué tiene que hacer y cuáles son los motivos hay un largo trayecto en donde se suceden hechos ridículos, personajes caricaturescos (Charlie me cayó bien, hace bastante que no me pasa eso con un personaje masculino) y remates de chistes subidos de tono.
What they had in common, besides being widows and immigrants, was a deep love for little Sophie, a precarious grasp on the English language, and a passionate lack of confidence in Charlie Asher’s ability to raise his daughter alone.Mrs. Korchev as a “Russian soul, conditioned by a thousand years of angst, really wasn’t equipped for unbridled happiness”.
Soon the plot starts getting Gothic and Charlie has to take on the tasks of a superhero in fighting the forces of darkness.
I chose this book for my upcoming Real-Life Bookclub because, well...
I have stumbled across a surefire way to tell when you're "old".
Christopher Moore, laughing.
And that right there is when I knew that I was probably going to love this book.
I loved how with a subtle turn of phrase, Moore could have me laughing out loud or wiping away tears.
This was something that I had not experienced before with any of his other books, and I really, really loved it.
But I don't think that Moore has that problem, at least not in this book.
4.0 stars. This was the first Christopher Moore story I ever read and did not know exactly what to expect. I was laughing out loud in the first 10 pages (the opening hospital scene was just great). The main character is Charlie Asher, self-described "beta-male" who owns a second-hand store in San Francisco. Following the unexpected death of his wife, Charlie takes on a new job, that of retrieving the souls of the dying with hilarious results. Smart and very funny but also emotionally touching. An excellent read. Recommended!!
Moore is deeply deranged, in the best way a human being can be, and it’s wonderful.
A painful, and often terrifying part of life, but Moore somehow took that core subject and wrote a beautiful story about grief, the reasons we go on living and how we deal with the inevitable.
It’s a surprisingly comforting novel, given all the weird sex jokes…I loved all the characters in the book: even the dumbest ones were still somehow endearing, in that way that makes me wonder what the Hell is wrong with me.
This is my third Christopher Moore book.
The second I can't even remember, only that I couldn't finish and it was about vampires or something.
This one is about as good as the second I read.A Dirty Job starts with a fun premise - a sad sap becomes a collector and placer of souls called a Death Merchant.
Then it deteriorates as evil forces come after him, giving him hand jobs in alleys and speaking to him from the sewer.
My husband loves Moore.
A friend of his loves Moore.
I'm not a guy and I don't love him the way they do.
This book was hilarious and original. That is all!
Funny-wack, not disturbingly mentally-ill wack (although that might explain a few things...) (As an aside: Do people still say "wack" or was that, like, so 2004?
In this one, Charlie, a mild-mannered widower and single dad discovers that he is Death.
People mysteriously die around him, he starts seeing glowing red objects, and he receives a book in the mail (no return address) entitled The Big Book of Death, a how-to book about transitioning the souls of the recently deceased into the afterlife.
Moore cleverly and deftly combines fantasy, horror, comedy, and pathos to create a lovable story about Death.
If you have not read this book, you must put down whatever you're doing, sign off this computer, and find a copy.
Apart from giving the precise sociological explanation of a beta male (to which women are not initially attracted, but to whom they really will enjoy being married), this book explains in a comforting, eloquent, and humorous way what happens to your soul when you die.
There are hilarious and real-feeling incidental characters in the protagonist's lesbian sister, his uber-Goth employee Lily, and his pathos-ridden, mail/male order-bride-marrying backup employee.
Charlie inherits his father apartment building with vintage shop on the first floor.
That is the most luck Charlie has had in his life.
However, in exchange Charlie gets Sophie, the Iluminatus, and a couple of hellhounds (after a succession of pets that don’t quite make it past one day).
The former only for a short passage, but Minty is on for most of the book.
The Emperor also gets a couple of chapters and Bummer gets to be quite the hero leading the Squirels and Charlie into the abyss (well, not quite the abyss, but close enough).
