https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/740506.The_Bloody_Sun
i made the mistake of reading about marion zimmer bradley, her life, the accusations, the whole horrible portrait of a monstrous mother and an enabling wife, of a strong and terrible woman, torturing and traumatizing, hiding things away.
other books helped me to recognize things outside of my own experiences, outside of my gender - in particular the struggles that women face, every day, throughout history, today and yesterday and tomorrow.i try my best to separate author from text, the artist from the work.
one can learn from even the most terrible of people.but it's so hard when that author, that artist, is someone who had such a seminal influence.
En particular, El sol sangriento -el primer libro que leo de la saga Darkover- es una novela íntegra, no solo porque se puede leer en forma independiente de cualquiera de los demás libro de la serie, sino porque además cuenta con todos los componentes de quienes gustan de este género: fantasía, ciencia ficción, acción, traición, redención, lealtad, amistad.
La autora logra crear y describir el planeta Darkover en su aspecto político, económico y cultural de tal forma, que se logra comprender el accionar de todos los personajes criados en este entorno.
Es una mezcla entre la más compleja tecnología y un estilo de vida que me recuerda historias medievales.
This is the 3rd novel written in the science fictional Darkover series, first published in 1964.
I don't know how much of that is the original edition and how much is the 1979 re-write.
There's a little bit of the feminist theme that came to dominate the later books in the series.This is a relatively straightforward suspense story, with the central mystery revolving around a main character with fragmentary memories of his childhood.
The writing is still a bit melodramatic, but this is, overall, one of the stronger Darkover stories.This edition also includes a short story that tells the backstory of some minor characters from another novel.
(if you don't know about it, sorry for possibly spoiling one of your favourite authors - for details google)I haven't read one of her books for ages because of this, but i needed brain candy and I really do enjoy the Darkover novels because they cover a lot of the bases for me: sci-fi, sci-fantasy, telepaths, complicated relationships, huge time-span).
Even though I've read Game of Thrones and other stuff so I know it's historically something that happened.
I'm a fan of Marion Zimmer Bradley, but my affection for her rests not on the Avalon books, which I didn't care for, but her Darkover series.
Ruled by a psychic aristocracy, it is later rediscovered by a star-spanning high-tech human federation after centuries, giving the series a feel of both science fiction and fantasy.
This makes it difficult without a guide to know what story to start with, as MZB really didn't come into her own as a writer until the mid-seventies, and books published before that are among the weaker in the series.
This book, although originally published early on in 1964, was however, later expanded and extensively rewritten in 1979.
Darkover, with its catalyst stones, towers full of red-heads with psi powers, and its forgotten colonist history. Fascinating and mysterious, I loved the combination of space port and medieval city existing side by side, and to me, this is the best book in the series.
Este libro me ha encantado, ya que en cada capítulo aparecen nuevos elementos que enriquecen considerablemente la trama. En concreto, lo que más me ha llamado la atención es esa mezcla magistral que la autora crea entre ciencia-ficción y fantasía, representada por las sociedades "terrana" y "darkovana", respectivamente. Otro aspecto destacable, es que a la par de explicarse el panorama social que conforma el telón de fondo del relato, se detalla mucho las vivencias de cada uno de los protagonistas. Bonito libro de inicio a fin. Lo recomiendo sin lugar a dudas.
4.5 |
Finally in audio book and well done! Loved it.
(view spoiler)[Unaware of the powerful intimacy between the members of the circle and the strong untapped empath laran he possesses, he finds himself reacting as a Terran boyfriend would, not like a Darkovan Tower technician should.
(hide spoiler)]Being in Arilinn Tower, he not only learns about laran and psi powers and how to use his laran, he is taught how to use the matrix stone given to him by his mother.
(view spoiler)[With this controversy and when Jeff’s feelings are reciprocated by Elorie Ardais, the Keeper of Arilinn, they both leave the Tower and circle.
The Bloody Sun (1964) 191 pages by Marion Zimmer BradleyJeff Kerwin was born on Darkover, raised in the Terran orphanage until he was twelve when he went to live with his grandparents.
He finds out more of his heritage, and the Com'yn.About halfway through the book Bradley introduces a subplot involving the the Terran-Darkovan relations.
Then Jeff breaks a taboo and no discussion of how they'll finish the survey, or of what options he has, just picks up with him on his way back to the Trade City.The theme that I take from the Darkover novels is a greater heed to the environment.
It's a familiar motif, and one which Bradley very deliberately followed; she said that "the essence of the Darkover novels" is "the clash of cultures between Terran and Darkover." Although I understand why she did this, some of her late 60s early 70s had a bit of sameness and predictablity to them.Spoiler AlertI am going to give away the end, so skip the next paragrapgh if you don't want the ending spoiled.Reading "Bloody Sun," however, even if you've read a number of her other works, you don't mind.
There's a certain amount of bedroom farce in this one, as Jeff moves into the slightly different mores of a telepathic circle, falling first for Taniquel and then for Elorie, but the metaphysical (and physical) problem of how Elorie can be both a Keeper and sexually active is more important, and also links the current-generation story with that of Cleindori, who was persecuted for precisely the same reason.
The volume concludes with a short story called "To Keep the Oath," which details the [pre-Thendara House:] story of Camilla's entrance into the Free Amazons.
First, to clarify (because this book has a confusing publication history), I own a late printing of the "expanded and revised" edition of this novel (1979) that also contains the short story "To Keep the Oath." Because this novel deals with the fallout from events in the later novel _The Forbidden Tower_, I'm guessing Bradley decided to add in some material to her original 1964 novel to let her readers know what had happened to the characters in that novel and the eventual fate of the seeming revolution in Darkovan matrix technology that the characters of the later work (the members of the Forbidden Tower) were on the cusp of developing.
Having said all that, in many ways this early novel deals clumsily with issues that Bradley developed over a decade later, exploring similar themes and covering much of the same territory as _Forbidden_ did.
1979 Grade A.
Book D10.
Fictional year 2110.2013 Grade A.Bloody Hell, what a conclusion.
The first half of the book is also hard to put down.
It gets introspective enough in the third quarter that I speed read bits.
But it more than makes up for that in the rest of the story.==================================Notes on The Bloody Sun. May contain spoilers.
These notes were taken during reading long before the internet existed.
His parents were Cleindori and Arnad Ridenow who, with a friend and a Terran, were experimenting in non-tower loran use.---- charactersKennard Alton (full adult son of Valdir)ElorieJeff Kerwin (30?) son of CleindoriThe next book would be Planet Savers.
Another Terran defects to Darkover.
This one's a little mystery, intrigue, history, and surprise at the end.
I don't like how the Terrans are making inroads.I also don't grok how Terrans have managed to remain so provincial about sex.
I mean, good grief--even Star Trek knew enough to say with space travel, marriage should be a temporary contract (5 years).
And how do you settle countless worlds but still consider others to be alien and beneath you?
How are there still just two sexes?
I mean, Heinlein already happened, too.
Why does the idea of group sex in telepathic rapport make Earth guys freak out?

In the early blush of my Sci-Fi love affair (the 70's), I had heard or read that MZB had used strange logic (Darkover was so far from Earth that the laws of physical space had changed) and it turned me off from this series.I may have been hasty.
This is a great piece of work with a very 70's pop mentality of ESP and the like would be like.
And I can see, how the natives and most of the "ruling" class/practitioners would have come across as magic users in the early stories or the early history.
My loss for not dipping in sooner.
Thank goodness Bookcrossing sends stuff my way that I would not buy for myself.
Colpi di scena degni di una soap opera!Anche se può essere letto indipendentemente – come tutti gli altri romanzi della saga, del resto – “L’esiliato di Darkover” si apprezza molto di più se prima si ha letto “La Torre Proibita” di cui ne è, in un certo senso, il seguito ambientato un paio di generazioni dopo.
E, quasi alla fine, si resta a bocca aperta per i colpi di scena rivelatori degni delle migliori soap opera!
Decisamente uno dei libri più belli di tutta la saga.
I found The Bloody Sun in a box of books that my great-grandmother was getting rid of. The cover art attracted me, and it became the first book I've read in the Darkover series. I really love military characters, such as Jeff Kerwin. However, I enjoyed following this adventure even more because along with military training, Kerwin was also skilled in abilities pertaining to fields outside of war. I appreciate seeing that in a character. The Bloody Sun had an excellent mix of political and psychic actions that influenced outcomes on both sides.
I may have to change this rating because I am having trouble remembering which book in this series goes with which name.
If this is the one that I think it is, then it is the best of the series.
To a great extent, most books of this series are a rewrite of the other books of this series - certainly there is a large group that are very similar.
I find it strange that so many of these books culminate in the same realisation, in particular.
Of the books that all are very similar, I think that this one is the version that does it best.
Just re-read this, in one of the DAW omnibus editions, with Star of Danger and Winds of Darkover, which I haven't got to yet. I remember this being one of my favorite Darkover books when I was reading them in college, and I still like it quite a bit. There's something about the "partial-amnesiac-looking-for-his-missing-past" storyline that gets me every time, and the Forbidden Tower arc is one of the ones I like best, as "brave rebels trying to subvert the Establishment" is one of my story-tropes too. Could do without some of the skeevy gender issues--those haven't aged well.
The first book of the 'Darkover' series I read. I think it's a good place to start since the main character is an outsider who knows nothing about the ways of this world and we get to experience it and learn about it with him. It was very easy to identify myself with the protagonist and his difficulty to understand a culture so different to his (our) own. Very enticing, it left me craving for more... now I'm hooked on the Darkover series!
Jeff Kerwin tries to reconnect to his childhood in this story that tries to make psionic power into hard science. Bradley casts her hero into the mix of Darkover politics, clan loyalties and the threat of takeover by the Terran Empire.I giggled when Jeff stepped out of the spaceship hatch and climbed down the rungs of a ladder to the spaceport surface. Given that the book is from 1964, it made perfect sense.Recommended
THe journey of self-discovery is an oft-travelled road, but Marion Zimmer Bradley takes us down it in a refreshing and characteristically engaging style through the eyes of Jeff Kerwin. Learning more of the aftershocks of the Forbidden Tower and seeing into the inner workings of Arilinn, the changes overtaking Darkover are fascinating to watch. As always, the world building and character development are lovely, and the reveals throughout the book pile up to a startling climax.
I'm big fan of Marion Zimmer and this book remind me of that. The reading is very fluid and captivating. Although the course of the story is very predictable and have nothing original in the plot I kept wanting to go further with the reading. This book has many of the particularities of Marion Zimmer that I learn to enjoy and accept. She really made me open my mind and be more comprehensive and tolerant.
I am rereading all of the Darkover books in publication order.I really enjoyed this inside look at living inside a Tower, being part of a matrix circle, and the resolution of the Forbidden Tower story-line.I can't call it "amazing" just because the writing is a bit too dramatic and the characters not developed fully.
A nice tale full of revelations and mystery. I like the Darkover setting because of the correct mixture of psi powers and sci fi elements. This may be an older story but it is still relevant today. Truly a delight. =)
I read the 1964 edition. A lot of this old SFF is hard on the scientific feminist brain. Psychic abilities instead of technology and promiscuous women as a symbol of equal rights. A nice enough book, but with too much dialogue.
of the "surprise you're a Comyn!" books, this one is one of the best...plus I've been waiting to find out what exactly happened to Cleindori since the doom and gloom note at the end of the Renunciates books...
