https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25644601-grey
my inner goddess is screaming out the safe word, but e.l. james is acting like we never set ground rules. rutabagaRUTABAGA!!RUTABAGA!!!!!it's like she doesn't understand how BDSM works!!!oh, wait.come to my blog!
Oh, fantastic! A Fifty Shades of Grey told from Christian's perspective is just what the book world needed.
ok so this is the Midnight Sun that Twilight fans never got
AM I THE ONLY ONE CREEPED THE FUCK OUT HE TALKS LIKE THIS PENIS IS A SEPARATE, LIVING ENTITY? MUSIC TO MY DICK?! THE FUCK?!LOL kSee more from buzzfeed here. Edited to add again: Just like Midnight Sun, the manuscript for this one was stolen a week before release and is feared to have been sold to the highest bidder in the black market. If it was really stolen, that was unfortunate. As much as I loathe the series, that's a douchebag move. However, I'll rip the book a new one if I find out this w
AM I THE ONLY ONE CREEPED THE FUCK OUT HE TALKS LIKE THIS PENIS IS A SEPARATE, LIVING ENTITY?
THE FUCK?!LOL kSee more from buzzfeed here.
Edited to add again: Just like Midnight Sun, the manuscript for this one was stolen a week before release and is feared to have been sold to the highest bidder in the black market.
However, I'll rip the book a new one if I find out this was only noise/marketing to hype the book even more.Edited to add: Apparently, so many pre-ordered this it's already a bestseller, before it's even published.
Primero que nada, el libro desde la perspectiva de Christian definitivamente NO era necesario, menos después de tanto tiempo.
Una parte de mí pensó que tal vez la autora innovaría, PERO NADA, es la misma novela, con alguna que otra escena nueva...
Lo que sí es que las escenas de sexo las leí muy rápido y sólo "por encimita", porque qué flojera, eran casi IGUALES a las del primer libro, sentía como si ya las hubiera leído.
OMG ESO SÍ, me reí muchísimo con todo el libro, ES QUE PARECE UN CHISTE.¿Me pregunto por qué la trilogía entera no la percibí así?
ETA: I need this book as much as I need dog shit on my shoes.
Meaning, not at all.
Beware of Christian's inner goddess god.Yeah, milk that cow.
Pathetic.
$__$Christian and Ana should buy a dog or a cat, so James could publish Fifty Shades of Animal Dungeon.
Sorry cats and dogs.
Imagine, she could publish their POV's too.
*gag*ETA: June 20, 2015.
The excerpts I added can be found here:http://www.buzzfeed.com/scottybryan/i...Scott Bryan was so kind and tweeted about his terrible nightmare.Before we go anywhere, you should know that many chapters of the book open like this.
He sounded like a juvenile kid guy with these strange italic monologues and the inappropriate usage of exclamation marks.
Just an example from the a few pages itself:(view spoiler)[She peeks up at me and bites down on her full bottom lip.Fuck!
I'm not used to this."I can tell, baby, but right now I don't give a damn because I can't take my eyes off your mouth."Take all the time you need, Miss Steele." I need another moment to marshal my wayward thoughts.Grey...stop this, now.
But I have only read a couple of pages from my signed first edition of Weyl's Quantenmechanik und Gruppentheorie when the door opens, and the housekeeper, a former Miss Honduras, arrives carrying a breakfast tray.
As she smiles and leans over to put it on my Louis XIV escritoire, I ask my cock what he thinks of the bountiful assets she is so generously displaying.
He evidently made off while I was trying to decipher Weyl's rather terse explanation of spherical harmonics.
It is the second time this week.My housekeeper notices my expression and asks me what's wrong; I shamefacedly confess my predicament, and together we search the room.
4 stars! Fifty Shades of Grey is a series I will always hold near and dear to my heart. I’ve been an avid reader most of my life, but Fifty was the book that jump started my reading. It got me to start reading more romance, and with that, I joined groups on goodreads and found so many indie books I may have never discovered and made many friends I’m sure I would have never crossed paths with otherwise. I’ll keep this review fairly short, most people have read Fifty Shades so there is no need to
I’ve been an avid reader most of my life, but Fifty was the book that jump started my reading.
I’ll keep this review fairly short, most people have read Fifty Shades so there is no need to rehash that story.
Grey is a retelling of the first Fifty book from Christian’s perspective.
If she brings the rest of the books out from Christian’s pov I will most definitely be listening to them on audio!
I would recommend this book to:~Fans of the Fifty Shades of Grey trilogy~People who don’t mind retelling of the same story from a different perspective.
Releasing June 2015!EL James announced that: "For the readers who wanted to read Fifty Shades of Grey from Christian Grey's POV -- on June 18 (Christian Grey's birthday) the book GREY: Fifty Shades of Grey told by Christian Grey will be released!"_______________________In Christian's own words, and through his thoughts, and reflections, and dreams.
E.L. James offers a fresh perspective on the love story that has enthralled millions of readers around the world.Christian great exercise control of all things: his world is neat, disciplined, and utterly empty — until one day that Anastasia Steele falls into his office, in a tangle of sharply limbs, and tumbling brown hair.
Fuck no.
Buuuuuuuuuuuut I figure you can't make bad decisions all year unless you start on January 1 so I decided to read this today.My reaction upon the announcement of yet another Stephanie Meyer rip-off and a "Grey" story rather than a "Rising Sun" release left me with a pretty strong reaction .
No need to troll me, I'm more than happy to admit Christian Grey is just not my cuppa (but as I said I appreciated the ownership of his fuck-up-edry way more this go 'round).
Oh and dare I forget that I wasn't aware of Christian being from England.
Of course I’m looking forward to reading.Naturally I’m able act cool about it.But on the inside I’m beside myself… all giddy…After all Christian Grey has an honorary place… …in my book history. He brought be from HR to CR and from there I found GR.
5 Deeper Grey StarsFirst read September 2015reread June 2017 Who love the fuck outta this book?
I loved the first book in this series, Fifty Shades of Grey , but I loved this one more.
OMG I really didn't think I would like this book more .
I mean I knew going into this, that I would most likely like it.
I liked the first book and this is just the first book in Christian pov.
I knew I would get a little more info about what was going on in Mr. Grey's fucked up mind, but the same story.
I loved s
5 Deeper Grey StarsFirst read September 2015reread June 2017 Who love the fuck outta this book?
I loved the first book in this series, Fifty Shades of Grey , but I loved this one more.
I loved seeing things from Christian's pov.
We are all free thinking people and I love that, but when I wrote my review on Fifty Shades of Grey, I had some people message me or leave comments on my review that said all kinds of mean things.
Grey made me miss the series so much I am going to reread book 2&3.
2,5 Underwhelmed Stars.  50 Shades of Grey, despite not being my favorite book series, caused a sensation, caught my attention and a few years ago, the curiosity to see if other people thought like me was what brought me to Goodreads. By that alone these books will always have a place in my heart. But this one… just left me underwhelmed. And mad, considering I’ve paid 4£ for it and could have bought a few books with that money. I’m not speaking about the story itself because being a male POV I k
50 Shades of Grey, despite not being my favorite book series, caused a sensation, caught my attention and a few years ago, the curiosity to see if other people thought like me was what brought me to Goodreads.
But let me tell you that when I read the books, even with the crazy amount of his issues, I always thought of Christian as sexy, confident and powerful.
But if you’re going to write a book with more than 500 pages of a Male POV I expect you to cover at least the most important moments of the trilogy and add a new and nice epilogue.
EDIT 2/7/2015: So this is why Grey has such a fugly cover.Note from Stephenie Meyer:EDIT 19/6/2015: I read some excerpts and all I can say is E.L. James takes the saying, "Men think with their dicks," way too literally. Hey, look, it's Midnight Sun! I will pay all of you a million bucks to leak a draft and stop this from happening.
EDIT: 18/6/2015Let us bow down to Scott Bryan, he who decided to spare us the pain of reading this atrocity by reading it himself... And live tweeting it. http://www.buzzfeed.com/scottybryan/i...Well, the summary definitely needs some work: And it's written by someone who a) wrote 50 Shades and b) went on to write a book on "writing advice."How about no.
From a business perspective, I applaud the decision to release a version of a book that has already been published that is largely the same as the book that has already been published.From any other perspective, this book is a travesty.
The writing is terrible, just fundamentally terrible.
Christian Grey is boring and he cannot even be bothered to be tortured in an interesting way.
Mad at myself for PAYING for this and then reading it even though I knew what it was going to be, having read the original trilogy a time or three.
I am part of the problem.
I read the FIFTY SHADES trilogy, and, YES, I liked it.Guess what?I liked TWILIGHT, too.And THE HUNGER GAMES, and I bloodydamn love HARRY POTTER.If you think that means I have crap taste in books, then good riddance.If you think that means I love ALL the hyped-up books, you don't know me, so who cares what you think?I read what I want and heaven help anyone who tries to make me feel bad about it.*steps down from soapbox*Honestly, I'm not terribly worried about that in Rabid Reads space, b/c lovers of speculative fiction tend to be a less judgmental crowd.But when the top dozen Goodreads reviews are all, "Hell NO, we won't read this crap, and we'll be (not so) silently judging anyone who does," well .
Is this a prank?
*****4.5  "I WANT MORE"  STARS*****{BR with Mel, Sharon, Tiff, Kelli, Jen, and Tera}I've come alive since I've known her. These last few weeks have been the most exciting, the most unpredictable, the most fascinating in my life. I've been enticed from my monochrome world into one rich with color - and yet she can't be what I need. I really loved this book!!It started off a little iffy for me but in the end, I freaking LOVED THIS!!!Yes, there was plenty that seemed to be a regurgitation from the
AND, I was one of those nutty fans who emailed E.L. James and BEGGED her to write the books over in Christian's POV.
For those of you who loved the "Fifty Shades" series, I highly recommend reading this book.
BUT, go into it knowing that this is the same story just with some added insights into Christian's past and what his thoughts were during his month with Ana. The book doesn't end how "Fifty Shades of Grey" did.
I also heard that E.L. James will be writing "Fifty Shade Darker" in CG's POV too!!!
Should I spend $9.99 for basically the same story as the first three ?  Welp! The pre-order price is now down to $7.99 for ebook.
DNF @19% - no ratingLong story short...GREY IS A PUSSY!I can be mistaken, but I always thought he was this super domineering alpha who is in control (or aspires to be).
Well, if I had any sort of attraction to him before it is now GONE.
Every single time he tries to assert his control said action is followed by a truly ridiculous piece of monologue (in italics) questioning himself, making him look uncertain and whiny.
In conclusion: Grey is a pussy and I can't deal with this BS.Oh, and in case you were wondering.
There was nothing new to the story except for two conversations between Grey and Elena.
I understand that the thoughts were those of a child, but the writing was in broken sentences and made him sound "Special".
All of his flashbacks are painful due to the horrid grammar.So the real question is was this worth my time and honestly, I can not encourage anyone to read this book.
Fortunatley, my library had the CDs of this book so I was able to listen to it while driving to and from work, and while folding laundry, so I didn't feel like I wasted time.
Now, is E.L. James a clever writer or not!!!! Did we actually need this book??? Of course not!! GREY is exactly the same book as Fifty Shades of Grey and the earliest section of Fifty Shades Darker ..there's only one difference.........let me tell you more...  It's time for us to get Christian Grey's very own POV............oh....we gonna find out what makes this guy tick!!!!Never mind that it's the exact same dialogue.... that we get to read the legal contract ....again.........we get to check
It's time for us to get Christian Grey's very own POV............oh....we gonna find out what makes this guy tick!!!!Never mind that it's the exact same dialogue....
that we get to read the legal contract ....again.........we get to check out all the emails that we have read before...........so why do we go out and pay for something we have read before????Because we are totally besotted with Christian Grey.......well, I am.............
Grey is not the worst book I’ve ever read - I wanted to read it when I heard about it....and I am happy I did..............will I read it again????
Or maybe I will in twenty years time!!!!!!!But honestly........Christian Grey may be egotistical, OCD.....and all those other things....but hey.....
