https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13490073
Kvachi, first written as a series of sketches and reworked into a novel, was published in 1925, a year after the author evaded execution for supporting the socialist party, and less fortunate writers met the brunt of the Communist uprising.
The figure of the self-made scoundrel is popular in Georgia and other East European countries, having a famous bedfellow in Jaroslav Hašek’s hilarious The Good Soldier Švejk, published in Czech in 1923.
Pikaresk roman tarzında yazılmış bir eserdi. Okurken keyif aldım diyebilirim. Yazarın diğer kitabı olan Lambalo ve Kaşa'yı da alıp okumaz farz oldu. :D
Another one I wanted to write a good long review of but the library wants its book back.This is a raucous, insightful, sometimes raw sendup of both pre-revolutionary Russia and the early Soviet Union. Bittersweet, very funny. I loved it.
The original title of this book was Kvachi Kvachantiradze; presumably the publisher of the English edition thought that was a bit intimidating. With names like Javakhishvili and Kvachantiradze, it is of course my book from Georgia for the Read The World challenge.It’s actually my second attempt for Georgia; I tried reading  Avelum  by Otar Chiladze, but didn’t finish it. I wondered at the time if it was a problem with the translation, but this had the same translator, Donald Rayfield, and was mu
I wondered at the time if it was a problem with the translation, but this had the same translator, Donald Rayfield, and was much more readable.It’s a big fat novel — 523 pages; my heart sank slightly at the sight of it — but the blurb was promising:This is, in brief, the story of a swindler, a Georgian Felix Krull, or perhaps a cynical Don Quixote, named Kvachi Kvachantiradze: womanizer, cheat, perpetrator of insurance fraud, bank-robber, associate of Rasputin, filmmaker, revolutionary, and pimp.
არის ბატონ კვაჭანტირაძეში რაცხა ნამეტნავათ ნაცნობი და მშობლიური. ჭავჭავაძის მერე ალბათ სწორედ ჯავახიშვილმა მოგვცა ქართველის ეგზომ ზოგადი, ამაღლებული და ჰეროიკული სახე კვაჭის სახით. იმას,რომ ორივე, ლუარსაბიცა და კვაჭიც, ჩვენი ხორცია ხორცთაგანი, ისიც ამტკიცებს, რომ ჩვენ არ გვძულს ისინი, ჩვენ ვიცინით მათზე, გამოვტყდეთ და ალბათ თანაგრძნობაც კი გვიჩნდება. ერთი სიტყვით, ეს ნამდვილად არაა ჯავახიშვილის magnum opus მაგრამ კარგია.
Javakhishvili's picaresque tale of the early twentieth century takes the reader to Georgia and then lurches on through antebellum Paris and Tsarist Russia.
Meanwhile, the reader sees Georgia through Kvachi's eyes.
At first Kvachi regards his native country as a backwater and his people as boors, but by the end of the novel these opinions are complicated by deep feelings of loss.
His reckless, restless pursuit destroys the lives of nearly everyone around him; and in the end, the narrator muses, Kvachi never had a clear idea of what he was pursuing.
This sprawling picaresque novel of the life of Georgian Kvachi Kvachantiradze is a romp through the early history of the 20th century in Georgia, Russia and further afield.
Kvachi is a con-man and cheat, gambler and womaniser, friend of the great and not so great, including Rasputin and the Tsar, and he lies and deceives his way through all the major events of his times.
Amusing to start with, I found his headlong progress began to pall after a while, especially as his adventure become more and more unbelievable.
The author is regarded as one of Georgia’s best 20th century writers and this novel is apparently now considered a Georgian classic.
ჩინებული წიგნი! სხვა მიხეილ ჯავახიშვილის რომანები რომ გადაითარგმნებოდეს, მაგათ წავიკითხავდი. ქართულ ენას ვსწავლობ, მაგრამ სამწუხაროდ მხოლოდ ინგლისურად და რუსულად ვლაპარაკობ. ეს რომანი ინგლისურად წავიკითხე.A great book! It's a shame there's so little of Mikheil Javakhisvhili's work translated into English, because if this novel is any indication of his quality as a writer, then the (English-speaking portion of the) world is missing out. At times bawdy, sardonic and even downright subversive, it's no surprise the poor author came to meet such an unfortunate end (executed by the Soviets in 1937).
მსოფლიოს დონის ერთ-ერთი ყველა დროის საუკეთესო ავანტურული რომანია.როგორც იქნა ინგლისურად ითარგმნა და იმედია გამოხმაურების გარეშე არ დარჩება.
I’m taken by how relentlessly unredeemable a character Kvanchi is, how his imaginative schemes serve such an unimaginative greed, his gauche tastes, his sociopathic lack of empathy. Kvanchi is the epitome of the worst tendencies of his society and times. Which makes for some vicious, uproarious scenarios. But also for many tiresome, redundant ones. Generally the book is at its most enjoyable when it lets its protagonist run amok at the intersections of history.
Kvachi, that Georgian scamp.
That trans-European scallywag.
That chameleon, shape shifter, man about town.
That moustached fop.
What a man!
Silver-tongued.
Well-hung.
Handsome.
That rascal, that rogue.
Bed your women, he will.
He's a rob-you-blind buy-you-dinner kind o' guy.
He's Red, he's White.
And every shade between.
I heard the strangest thing the other day.
Well-travelled.
Well-heeled.
Well, just couldn't help myself.
Had to have a taste.
Bad boy.
Too clever too quick to stay down for long.
Had his scrapes, has he?
well, I wouldn't be surprised.
A scoundrel.
Heard he had it on with youknowwho.
Don't know the man.
Reviewed by The Complete Review
