https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35068763-the-home-for-unwanted-girls
She presents the divide between English and French in Quebec in the 1950’s both from a family perspective as well as a societal one.
Maggie ‘s father is English and her mother is French.
Elodie’s story unfolds and we learn of the awful things that happened to thousands of orphans.
In addition to the divides between the English and the French, there are family rifts.
There are rifts between husband and wives, father and daughter, but there are also enduring bonds.
Although it was easily one of the saddest novels I've ever read, the feelings I had at the end were of lightness rather than darkness, which, all things considered, is an amazing feat.Maggie is sixteen in 1950, living in rural Québec with her father, who owns a seed shop and her mother, who really just sucks.
The things that take place in the orphanages/asylums in this novel, in real life, are appalling and tragic and easily qualify as crimes against humanity.
The way the two stories in this novel were woven (Maggie's and Elodie's, over the course of 20 years), I was left formulating a dozen different endings in my head.
THE HOME FOR UNWANTED GIRLS by JOANNA GOODMAN was such a moving, heart-wrenching, and riveting historical fiction novel that had quite the emotionally gripping story.
Being from Canada there were some events that I was aware of but some that I wasn’t and it was definitely an eye-opening experience for me reading this novel.
Learning that this book was based on the author’s mother just made this story even more thought-provoking, touching and heartbreaking.
Title: Intriguing, sad, fits the story so well and love how it plays so meaningfully into the story.Writing/Prose: beautiful, engaging, and empathically written.Plot: Provocative, captivating, steady-paced, held my attention and extremely enjoyable.Ending: Hopeful, touching, and satisfying.Overall: A fantastic, emotional, important, memorable, and heartfelt read!
I truly loved this novel!This story ripped my heart out.
Simply stated – I adored this book!This novel revolves around Maggie Hughes who, at fifteen, becomes pregnant and is forced by her parents to give her baby daughter, Elodie, up.
Her character touched my heart in so many ways.
The author, Joanna Goodman, does an impeccable job creating such vivid, real and relatable characters.
I loved them both and thought the novel flowed seamlessly and at the perfect pace.
I look forward to reading more from this author!This touching novel was a Traveling Friends read.
3.5 An emotional roller coaster of a journey, a young fifteen year old mother, Maggie forced to give up her newborn daughter.
We follow Maggies journey, her life, and eventually her struggle to find and reunite with her daughter.
Elodie, in an orphanage, finds harshness, but never outright cruelty, and even kindness from one of the sisters.
Now her life is one of hardship, outright cruelty, so hard to read what happened to these children and at the hands of sisters who were supposed to show Christian mercy and acceptance.
Not just the churches though, the harsh judgement and non caring atmosphere of society in general.
Maggie Hughes is the 15-year old daughter of an English speaking Canadian father and a French mother living in Quebec.
Unfortunately, Elodie is never adopted from the Home for Unwanted Girls, an orphanage run by nuns, which later changes to a mental hospital to receive more government funding.
Maggie and Elodie are the narrators and the story shifts between the two, often in parallel time frames.
I found it an interesting contrast as Maggie moves on with her life but never forgetting the child she lost and Elodie never giving up hope that her mother would attempt to find her.
The story also exposed the ethnic divide between the English speaking citizens and the French.
Traveling Friends Group ReadWhen I saw that beautiful, intriguing and haunting cover I knew I had to read this one.
Goodman gives a voice to the victims of this scandal through Elodie, allowing us to feel so many emotions for them while reading this story.
At the final discussion, we used the questions provided by the publisher and that really gave us so much to think about and discuss really enhancing our discussion.We highly recommend this story to everyone who loves historical fiction based on real events.
We also highly recommend to reading groups as there is just so much to discuss with this one.
Two things drew me to this book: location and time.
Interesting fact of the time- This was 1950 and a woman was not allowed to keep an illegitimate child.
What drew me most in this book was Elodie and her storyThe other aspect of the book that I found so true was the animosity between the French and the English at that time.
As a child (I am Italian, but I went to English schools) I was taunted by French children and I remember my brother being beaten up for coming to my defence.
Set in rural Quebec in the 1950's The Home For Unwanted Girls, by Joanna Goodman, is an incredibly well-written novel that is not a true story but is based on real life events.
The author depicts a shameful part of Canadian history when the children of unmarried women were thought to bear sin, were sent to orphanages and then to asylum's because the nuns running these institutions were paid more to care for the mentally ill.Maggie Hughes is a teenage girl with an English father and a French mother.
Maggie Harper lives in a rural community in Quebec during the 1950s.
Her father runs a Seed Store, and Maggie dreams of one day running it herself.
Her daughter, Elodie, is sent to an orphanage and was well taken care of and educated for the first seven years of her life.
Things change dramatically when the Quebec government and the Catholic Church determine there is more funding available for psychiatric hospitals, and Elodie along with thousands of other orphans are declared to be mentally ill.
Told through alternating voices of Maggie and Elodie, their yearning to find one another is heart wrenching.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The story is unique and the fact that it is based on true events of 1940s and 1950s Quebec makes it especially disturbing. While it’s not an easy read, it’s definitely worth picking up.
I’m emotionally torn with this story:Young love between Gabriel and Maggie with the harsh disapproval by Maggie’s father of Gabriel.
The baby is named Elodie and the sadness and betrayals and secrets are so painful - there are so many, and not just by one person.
Can she forgive her mother, her father, her grandparents, the horrible nuns, nurses and doctors who were of no help to her and instead of listening to her, punished and drugged her to shut her up and make her complacent?
It starts with a young teenager (Maggie) who falls in love with someone (Gabriel) that her parents do not approve of.
That said, there were also parts of the book that felt as though they had been written by a teenager.
The love story between Maggie and Gabriel is the prime example of this.
I found the entire book to be very cliche and seemed to be written by someone who really didn’t have a lot of knowledge about anything - not love, or child birth, or reality.
This book was the Twilight version.
Is it a riveting story about a horrible time in Canadian history?
Yes. Will it give readers a lot to talk about in their book clubs.
With issues like those, it's not surprising that this book has emotional scenes but, if I'm being honest, my feelings for the book faltered a bit towards the end.
Around two-thirds of the way through I felt the book loses momentum and after all of the emotion and anguish throughout the book, the ending felt weaker than I was expecting.
Overall, this is a wonderful read that confronts a horrible time in our history within an emotional story that will bring lively and heated discussion to any book group.
3.5* Was not a bad story at all but I honestly did not warm up to any of the characters except Elodie. Most of the other characters were not very likable. The writing was great but the characters I could not warm up to. I had pretty good expectations for this book because my grandmother said she loved it. But unfortunately the characters let me down for the most part. My quick and simple overall: good story and worth a read.
Joanna Goodman has written a beautiful novel containing the entire range of emotions experienced by the human heart.
The Home for Unwanted Girls tells the story of Quebec in the 1950s-1970s, but more specifically of Maggie, a young girl living in the Townships with an English-speaking father and French-speaking mother.
The story also follows Elodie, Maggie's daughter, who is raised in Quebec's highly fraught orphanage system.
This book is the story of Maggie and Elodie, but also the chilling story of so many Quebec children who were abused at the hands of nuns and priests when they had no one to advocate for them.
In our story, Maggie Hughes, who lives "55 miles southeast of Montreal" becomes pregnant.
Even though Maggie is half French herself (her mother is French, her father English), her father, Wellington Hughes deplores the French, thinking them of low ambition.
Wellington runs the seed store in town and is known as ‘The Seed Man.’ Maggie loves working in the store with her father.
When Maggie becomes too involved with Gabriel, she is sent to live with her aunt and uncle.
At one point in the book, Goodman writes that one nun might have to take care of as many as fifty children.
This was a fantastic book!
The writing, the plot, the character development, everything is superb!The story focuses on Quebec orphanages that were converted into mental hospitals in the 1950's as a way for the government and church to make more money.
At that time, orphanages, which were run by the church, were paid a small amount of money.
Out of greed, the provincial government opted to change the orphanages into mental hospitals to qualify for Federal government funding, which significantly increased the amount of money for the church.
The story is heartwrenching and tragic yet there's elements of hope and perseverance.
We are shown a family where there isn’t really a lot of love shown, the parents don’t seem to like one another, he is English and she is French, and like the Province they are like oil and water.A young couple get caught up and the result is an unwanted pregnancy, and at that time it was an embarrassment, and the child was put up for adoption, or so they thought.The author shows us a blight on history, the story is historical in nature as this horrible event really did happen.
I am sorry but this wasn't a great book. Way to melodramatic. The love story (lust story) of Maggie and Gabriel was terrible and never fully developed. It read like a cheesy romance novel. I would have liked more story about their child and less about them. I gave up half way through. Too many other books on my list that I would rather be reading to waste my time on this one.
Unfortunately, the laws change and classify orphans as psychiatric patients and Maggie's possiblities of finding her daughter compicate further more.Upon reading the description of this book, I knew it was something I just had to read.
The narrative follows Maggie as she falls in love with Gabriel, the French boy on the farm next to her house.
But Gabriel's pull far exceeds that of her father and Maggie ends up pregnant.
Under the rule of Maurie Duplessis, the Premier of Quebec at the time, children were exploited for monetary gain.
The book centers on Maggie, a teenager who enjoys working in her father's seed/gardening store and aspires to run the store someday.
Maggie's father has made the choice for his children to speak English and tells his children to stay away from the French-Canadians.
I definitely learned about a new part of Canadian history and I'm wondering if there will be apologies someday.Joanna Goodman has written four other books, but this is my first read.
Based on how much I enjoyed this one, I'm planning to read those someday.
She tells her father she wants to name the baby Elodie, but at the hospital the baby is taken from Maggie, as her parents had arranged to send the baby away, keeping the secret of the illegitimate girl.
She is privately burdened with the loss of her baby girl and Gabriel, her true love.At the same time we get to know Elodie.
It is all that she knows and what she is used to, not much love or nurturing, but she has food and shelter…until the government rule changes orphanages into mental institutions.
The first part of this book is pretty tough to read- because of the content. An important story to be told, for sure. It’s just a tough one to finish and say “I loved it!”, again because of the content. Would be great for bookclubs though, as there is plenty to discuss.
Choices made, good or bad. This story flew by.
3.5 stars The reunion was way too short. I hope the author considers continuing the story.After reading this book, I looked up Duplessis Orphans. I didn't think it was possible, but I'm left even more disgusted by the catholic church.
I have now officially read a girly -romance novel.
I thought this was a serious work about orphans in Quebec in the 1950’s.
The orphans were declared insane and treated as such for many years.
Maggie at sixteen has an illegitimate child.
Her parents force her to give up the child at its birth.
The book see-saws back and forth between mother and child.
The book is an OK read.
If you’re marooned somewhere and there are only two books, and the other is in Mandarin, read this.
You might also use the subject matter as a source for a good novel should you be an aspiring novelist.
Honestly I couldn’t put it down. I wanted to keep being immersed in Maggie’s life and felt like I was living it with her. Beautifully written.
Wow. This book gets ALLLLL THE STARS! I *will* be returning to this space to write the proper review this book deserves, just as soon as my emotions have calmed down a wee bit. --Jen from Quebec :0)
This book is officially on my Birthday wish :D
