https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79790.Magical_Thinking
He just does not care whether you like him or not.These are what make Augusten Burrough's memoirs very different from what I've read so far.
This was when I read Dry (3 stars) and his sensitive gay side comes out when he said inside the gay bar: "this place is full of naked lonely souls."So, in this book, when he said "I am not normal in anyway." I believed him.
So, if you don't like him, don't buy and read his books.
He told a couple of stories about those encounters and I just laughed out loud this morning.What am I doing reading all these books by Burroughs?
A few years ago I read Running with Scissors and found it over-the-top but tolerable.
Last year, I read Sellevision and detested it, swearing off Burroughs forever.
So I decided to give Magical Thinking a chance because Burroughs was going back to his strength, and because rather than a full-length memoir, Magical Thinking is a series of short snippets of his life.
Burroughs admits that he’s a terrible person with lots of issues, so the only thing that I can think of that makes him so popular is that he’s so open to revealing his terrible side to everyone it’s captivating in a horrible way.
I couldn't laugh anymore because I thought he was just plain cruel most of the time whether it be to animals, children or adults.
Now I havent read Running with Scissors or Dry yet but I do understand that he had a very screwed up childhood...but that fact still doesnt make me like the fact that he is so incredibly self-absorbed and mean (even if he does have his guilty moments - and I do have a sense of humour - honest!)...the backcover blurb says "Augusten Burroughs gives voice to the thoughts we all have but dare not mention" - ummm nope not me.
I have a lot of trouble laughing at other peoples pain, Augusten seems to revel in it and make it a source of his happiness.
In the past, I have only listed books on Goodreads that I have enjoyed and would recommend.
Today, a friend put Magical Thinking in her TO READ pile.
I commented that I did not want her to read it because in one of AB's essays, he describes wishing a boss dead (the origination of the title) and incredibly goes on to gleefully reveal that she did die after hoping it would happen.
When I negatively commented on the book as it was listed on my pal's page, Goodreads removed the comment.
Yes, this is why I hated the book.
I found nothing nothing charming about Magical Thinking and while I was reading it all I could think was that he represents the unshaven underarm of society – the type of person who finds everything wrong with the world and the slice of pie he has been delivered but fails to notice the good things like the fact that he is eating pie.
The only reason I finished Magical Thinking was that I needed something to occupy my time in the bathroom.
Guess it's the poorest man's David Sedaris: Augusten Burroughs.
Burroughs would be better if he'd at least admit he's a bitchy gay man instead of trying to tack on "But everybody is okay" drivel messages at the end of his bitchiness.
(Or people who tack on "Now don't get offended" before being absolutely offensive dicks...)I couldn't help but remember all of Bill Hicks' anti-advertising people bits when reading this.
I dig how immoral and ethical Draper is, and how he relates advertising to what people think everybody else thinks and try to conform to that view (however, I'm never impressed by his epiphanies.
Nice Augusten Burroughs book. My favorite after Dry.
Ugh, why the hell do I ever even bother trying to read books by this Augusten Burroughs guy? Another bunch of vulgar and lewd sob stories by a man with a severe case of exaggeration and trying to pass off fabrication as fact.
The shower came after I cleaned the shower but, get this, before I took a bubble bath.Now what sense does that make?
Steve thinks I should have asked her for coffee (the irony of that being that we were in a Tea store).---I read Dry before Running with Scissors, and you would have thought that I would have learned my lesson a second time through.
And after reading 193 pages today, that's too much time to spend in one day about his boyfriend.Maybe Augusten Burroughs and I think the same way.
I really love this book.
Because the stories are short, pretty quick reads, it's great for those times when you want something to read but have a lot of distractions around.
That's why I took it to the DMV with me a few weeks ago when I was getting my driver's license renewed.
It was a long wait, and the lobby was packed with all kinds of cranky people and their unruly kids.
As I read about Burroughs' experiences dating an undertaker, getting blowjobs by priests and dealing with a psychotic housekeeper, I kept bursting out laughing.
It definitely made the hellish DMV experience a lot more bearable.
In Which Augusten is in Love with the Guy in the Previous Story.16.) Key Worst.
In Which Augusten Goes to Kmart to Buy Dennis an Iron, and Realizes He Is Becoming Domesticated.This book is funny.
In this book, Burroughs makes fun of people with Down's Syndrome.
It's also fair warning for parents who read this book that Burroughs actively dislikes children.
However, after reading this book, even if you laugh a lot, you would never, ever want to be his friend because you know how he thinks and talks about people.If you are going to read an Augusten Burroughs book, I would suggest DRY.
Augusten Burroughs é um dos meus escritores favoritos, não só porque escreve bem, mas especialmente 
After enjoying Burrough's bitchy humor for a few chapters, I began to find the stories lacking in any redeeming qualities.
What I eventually realized is that in Burroughs I was hoping to find another David Sedaris -- a funny, bitter, bitchy gay man with a keen memory and scathing attention to detail but with an evident heart and soul.
The chapter on killing the mouse in his bathtub totally lacked a point -- and the second half of the book badly needed an editorial hand.
I mean 237 positive critiques from the worlds most reputable sources can't be all wrong, can they?Besides, I love David Sedaris, and out of the 237 reviews, 235 of them had a fond comparison.
David Sedaris is gay too, but I didn't feel that in his writing it defined who he was.
I don't walk away from David's book saying, "memoirs of a gay man," just like if I ever write I would hope people walked away with more than, "*sigh* another straight man's memoirs..."Not that there weren't funny anecdotes in here.
So Anthony bought me this book last weekend and I finished it in 3 days.It's a collection of his essays, much like the style of David Sedaris.
And just like David Sedaris, only a couple of these essays are "laugh out loud" funny.The first 5 essays feel like he's just trying to fill space in the book with nonsense "what if" stories that are obviously all taking place in his head.
Like any collection, it has its stronger and weaker elements.
My favorites are the kinder, gentler stories; the ones about Dennis, and about getting excellent blowjobs from Catholic priests, and his experiences at the Barbizon modeling school, and the title essay.Partly I was fascinated by these stories because Burroughs is basically the anti-me.
Not just because he's a gay guy and I'm a straight woman, but because he is an alcoholic urban ad agency executive who watches endless TV and, as he says in one of his essays, if he wants nature, he turns on the Discovery Channel.
Amusing enough to make me laugh out loud a few times. It doesn't get five stars because Burroughs is amusing but not endearing. And he made a few typos and can't seem to get his facts straight (did he start working in advertising when he was 18 or 19? does he use magical thinking to keep planes aloft or not?). Sooo...four stars.
A solid collection of humorous stories, with a smattering of heartfelt and touching stories to boot. Burroughs is no David Sedaris, but he is certainly an enjoyable comedic author.
I didn't read the whole thing--only to the essay where he writes about how he tortured a rat. I got so mad I tore the pages out of the book then tossed the book into the first trash can I found.
Obnoxious but compulsively readable. Burroughs is pretty damn funny when he's not being an ass.
3.5 starsThis is an interesting book of short stories.
So how did I feel about this collection of stories you ask?
Well, it was a mixed bag of stories and my feelings were about the same.
The rawness was like flayed skin and some things were funny, but not really a light humor at all.
It's a weird feeling and I won't call it coincidence either because it's just happened too many times to say that it's not magical.
I'm still working on that.Anyways, an interesting book with some uncomfortable spots and lots of great funny moments.
I love this collection of essays. I think Augusten Burroughs has a very clear, witty, engaging writing style, and I wish I could write with even a modicum of his humor. There is a great mix of the intimate and emotional and observational and confessional in this book. Burroughs is a thoughtful writer, who is also very honest about his own shortcomings and eccentricities. There were a lot of laugh-out-loud moments, some cringe-worthy sections, and some thought-provoking essays. I’m glad I took the time to read this, and I will be adding more of Burroughs' writings to my TBR!
If you think David Sedaris' stories are funny, then you'll really explode with laughter when you read this collection from Augesten Burroughs.
Author Augusten Burroughs has hit a home run again in this funny, sometimes acerbic collection of true anecdotes that reveals the dark thoughts we all sometimes have, and then carries them out to their seemingly insane conclusions...but with wit and that satirical twist.These snippets are not presented in any particular chronological order, but begin in childhood, with memories about a Tang commercial, and lead us through the panicky drinking days and the one-night stands.One of my favorites is the chapter about a rat he finds in the bathtub in the middle of the night, and the panic that ensues.
How many times do breast implants have to be mentioned, and why would a gay man care so much about them?It was still a funny read with more than slapstick, an apt commentary on a lot of twisted garbage in society, and succeeds in threading a story through seemingly disparate essays.
Friend Suzanne is redescribed in such a way that makes me think the editing wasn't fully up to snuff.After a childhood/20's like his, even what's normal and mundane must be viewed from a distance, and maybe that's the humor.
Separating the book from the man, it is amazing that someone even survived half the things Burroughs talks about.
When he's working late and I'm alone, or sometimes when we're in bed together, the lights off, I try to make even a small list in my mind of his faults: Things I Put Up With Out of Love.
But his face, when he sees that he's done this--where are my keys?--it's the most crestfallen face, and I tell him, " Have you checked the pockets on that jacket you wore last night?" And I check the bathroom and the floor under the sofa and all the unlikely but possible places for lost things to be.
I've had stop trying to look for cracks and flaws to prove that it's not as good a it seems.
Burroughs has received the "good" the world has to offer-- which makes me have hope.
Here is an excerpt that depicts his wit, but also his honesty about his life experiences that have shaped him."But you'd make such great parents!" Yes and no.
Dennis would make a good parent.
Whenever I see a baby-slapper on CNN, I think There but for the grace of God. I'm terrified of what sort of parent I would make.
And Daddy will give you ten bucks if you put it on mute."Another problem is that I was raised without proper parenting myself.
One example, in Better Not Cry he says he ate a life size wax Santa and had to get his stomach pumped, but then in Dry he says " I had gotten my stomach pumped before after eating a wax Santa off the Christmas tree." Also, in Magical Thinking he goes into graphic detail on his sex life with the "undertaker" but when you read Dry, come to find out, that suddenly the undertaker is a heterosexual with a "stacked girlfriend" -- and then he says the undertaker told the girlfriend he wouldn't kick him outta bed ha ha ha" and then follows it with "One time the undertaker and I were so drunk that he didn't kick me out of bed, when we woke up naked we were mortified, and I almost wanted to remind him of that." So which story was real?
Who knows if all the details are true, i don't care.
What is evident, and wonderful is that the stories are each little gems that i don't want to end.
Each chapter has wonderful sentences that make me run into the room where jason is, or poke him on the train, and read aloud.
I don't want this book to end.UPDATE: I am finished reading this book, and loved every single story except the story about him trying to kill a mouse trapped in his bathtub.
It was way too detailed, and involved bleach, pesticide, scalding water.
I didnt finish that one.
I did, however, feel there was a certain rushed tone, like he had to slam out these stories quickly to keep his name relevant.
I wouldn't really call any of his writing "thoughtful," per se, but these stories in particular seem a bit shallow (which I'm sure he'd readily admit).
I think he's used the story about being in Tang commercial as a child in at least three separate books now ("Running with Scissors," "Possible Side Effects," and now "Magical Thinking").
You were an extraordinarily vain child who was obsessed with celebrity at a young age.
You're a star now, so relax and take your time with your next book.
