https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121227.Forlorn_River
Not only was the story not as exciting as its sequel, I had trouble picturing this younger version of Ben Ide. Unlike Nevada, where Ben is a supporting character and is somewhat boring as a respectable husband and father, this book gives him center stage as a restless young hunter of wild horses.Rereading it now for the first time in decades, I am able to appreciate it much more on its own terms.
Without too much of his usual melodramatic exposition, he makes it clear that there is more than just Ina’s reputation at stake.That said, I do find a couple of problems with this book:Early on, Grey establishes the location by having a character look northward from Forlorn River toward Oregon, with Mt. Shasta protruding skyward in the distance.
Now I'm trying to find the sequel to see if Nevada gets a happy ending too! It was a little bit predictable, but I loved that the setting was an area I visited last summer and my new favorite quote, "you bet I would not take him fishin'," is a great way to measure a person's character.
In my desire to find new authors and books to read this year I have read a large number of books written in the first half of the twentieth century.
This book written in 1927 falls in to that category.
I had only read one other Zane Grey novel, namely "Riders of the Purple Sage" which I enjoyed.
Zane Grey, in my experience with only two books does the unthinkable in inserting a sensitive romance in to his novels.
Reading this book made me feel like I was watching an old black and white movie, which based on the last few movies I've watched is not a bad thing.
Forlorn River and its sequel, Nevada, are my two favorite Zane Grey novels.I find these novels brimming with Grey's loving descriptions of frontier wilderness.
In these novels, though, the women characters come across as very strong and the men as capable of love and loyalty.--"Injuns and Greasers": Minorities get minimized by Zane Grey, and that is true in this novel also, yet to a lesser degree.
Good people are conned by bad people, eventually to be saved by a good man who possesses a hidden, bad past--and a large, deadly pistol.In Forlorn River (published in 1927), young Ben Ide is cast out by his rich dad, branded a wild horse hunter and possible rustler.
It was a decent enough story, but I found Zane Grey's writing style to be just too much for me to really enjoy the book.
He seemed to have supernatural abilities as a tracker, he often communicated in sign language, and when he spoke, it was usually something quite wise and contained the phrase "heap big..."The most distracting part of the book was that Grey seemed to make a conscious effort to find alternatives to the words "said" and "asked", but he had a main short list of alternates.
But the one thing that was more distracting than anything else, was the unbelievable number of times that the characters "ejaculated" something.
Ben Ide is a wild horse hunter in northern California, who has had his reputation tarnished by rumors that he has become a rustler.
When Ina Blaine, Ben's childhood sweetheart, comes home from being away at school for four years, she finds everything changed.
Everything that is, her feelings for Ben. However, Ina's father's new business partner, Less Setter, has plans not only for her father, but for Ina. If Ben and his pards can't figure out a way to catch the real rustlers, they may just lose everything.A wonderful, classic western romance.
I read this book when I was about 12 because it was in my Grandma Frampton's bookcase when I was down in Provo for a visit.
She let me take it home to finish it, and she died before I could get it back.
It is obviously a western, but I was so caught up in the characters then.
Especially the one called Nevada.
It describes the lava fields and caves in northern California, and talks about the Klamath Indians.
I still have the old book, but it's falling apart.
A lot of memories came flooding back as I read through it.
Life in the Old West.
A father is disappointed in his son and casts him out.
The son creates a new life for himself and gathers faithful friends.
Then the love of his youth returns after being away at college and an evil man has become his fathers partner and has spread lies about Ben. To win his lady love , he must clear his name and make good of his life.
Many people believe in him and that is essential to his belief in himself.
It is a hard won battle, but he does win.
It is the Old West of my TV youth.
This was the first Zane Grey book I read. A friend loaned it to me. The think that hooked me was that it was set in the Tule Lake area of northern California, a place I visited often while growing up.
I coudn't help but picture the characters over-acting, but I also couldn't help but picture the beautifully described Northern California wilderness. Zane Grey is a perfect summer read.
fun easy one day read
