https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3205994-the-road-to-en-dor
Simultaneously a memoir of two prisoners of war doing whatever is necessary in order to win freedom and an amazing description of how several men in a Turkish prisoner of war camp managed to duplicate nearly every effect of the famous "spiritualists" of the day (what we would now call "mediums" or "psychics").
At first this was for amusement, but when some of their captors became believers in their abilities they attempted to use their "powers" to win their freedom.
While it is impossible to fully communicate such an extraordinary experience, this well-written account manages to give some of the flavor of it.
Brilliant and bizarre. Very well written book which tells a most extraordinary story. It is packed with period detail about the dying days of the Ottoman Empire, as well as about prisoner of war camps in Turkey in WW1. But the main attraction are the bizarre events that are described in the book. Well worth a read.
Well done!The power of faith, focus, and resolve. Something turned into nothing, nothing turned into something! Not spirit domination, men's manipulation. JESUS approved!
i ENJOYED THIS BOOK i LOVE TO READ ESCAPE STORIES. 4 STARS.
As Jones gets more and more experienced at faking the voices of the dead, he finds ever more subtle ways of influencing his fellow inmates, always walking a tightrope between discovery and deepening of the deception.But Jones’ hijinks come to an end when he realises that his newfound skills, in conjunction with the superstitious nature of the Ottoman camp commandant, could lead to more than just idle entertainment: it could bring him a real possibility of escaping Yozgad and returning home.Though ostensibly true, the tale of The Road to En-Dor is told in the “ripping yarn” style of pre-war Imperial narratives such as King Solomon’s Mines.
Harold and Edna gave this to Grandfather Mitton Feb 1931Harold would not have imagined that in 10 years he would be fighting with the Rats of Tobruk, not far away across the Mediteranean...We still have not read it all!
Mary has read half of it, all about the spook and codes in a scam about a seance....Signed Harold in Perth 1/2/31.
Cost 5/3.
The Weekend Library..John Lane The Bodley head..Being an account of how two prisoners of war at Yozgad in turkey won their way to freedomThe right to indoor who's the oldest Road and the craziest ride home rule strike two runs to the witches about mood as you did in the days of soul and nothing is changed hope the sorrow in stool for such as go down on the road to indole KiplingBy Siri....

Amazing story. Somewhat dated in style - and length, written as it was a long time ago. Really would make an excellent film.It's not written by the EH Jones (Doctor Who fan) that Goodreads has it though, haha.
One of my favourite books
Pretty good. What an audacious plan. Ending seemed a bit abrupt though. It would have been nice to see them actually on the way home.
Too long.Over 400 pages, plus lots of notes and appendicesWe really didn't need to have so much detail and verbatim reports of seances.
One of two First World War prisoner escape accounts which I have read.
