https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119825.The_Reckoning
My gosh. All I can say is I'm so sad it's over. This was by far the best trilogy I have ever read. Some day I will go back and read them all over again.Penman can introduce a ton of characters and somehow she writes where you can keep them all straight in your head. She makes you FEEL for these characters until you think you actually know them. I caught myself slowing down and wanting to stop reading because I didn't want it to end! Wonderful. Everyone should read this trilogy!
In my entire history of reading, no book(s) have affected me the way SKP’s Welsh Trilogy has.
I fell totally and completely in love with Wales and her people.
SKP’s books are so historically accurate with just enough added drama, you just can’t help fall in love with these characters.
I feel my words just don’t convey the greatness of these books but, I highly recommend this trilogy to all!!
“Here Be Dragons” the first is my favorite!
And what’s not to love about that awesome title!
I just discovered SKP this year and she has rapidly topped my list of favorite authors.
In Book 2 Falls the Shadow we see the rising of Simon de Montfort who fought for the people of England's civil rights and the continuation of the English and Welsh wars.
In this final trilogy, without giving too much away a grown up Llelo aka Llywelyn The Last continues to fight the English for an independent Wales.
I went into all three books not knowing about the Welsh wars and knowing little about Simon de Montfort.
As I was told, do not google as you read, for the stories are all page turners and you want to be surprised.
Rating: 4.5 starsThe final book in Penman's Welsh Princes series is even better than the first two; less political, more emotional, and in the last 100 pages, totally heartbreaking.
Adorable little Llelo from Falls the Shadow has grown up into Llewelyn, Prince of Wales, as courageous as his namesake grandfather from Here be Dragons, and facing the same adversaries in the form of treacherous kin and arrogant kings.
I sat in silence for a while after finishing, taking in the full story from all three books, all filled with so much hope and so much sadness.The Welsh Princes trilogy is one of the best series' I’ve read.
So far, this has been one of the best book series I’ve read, and undeniably one of the most heart-wrenching, too.
This series has led me to appreciate and respect these heroes and the causes they fought for, to shed a considerable volume of tears I never thought I actually possessed (as I don’t cry that easily), and for that alone, Miss Penman deserves more than 5 stars from me.
Anyway, I was supposed to write an objective review about this book, but my mind is still in 13th century Wales and brooding over the many “what ifs”—however foolish—that this book/series has conjured up.
This book concludes the trilogy to a wonderful Historical novel, centering around the vying powers of Wales and England.
.. difficult to do especially in the second and third book, when Longshanks or Edward I, comes into the spotlight.Wales is losing ground and, for the first time, England has a powerful ruler who can take advantage of it.
In addition, a fatal wound and no heir, leaves Wales in turmoil, leaving Edward I the advantage of taking over the country.Note that Edward I was also Longshanks, who was the English King in BRAVEHEART.
But while Penman is a much better character writer than your average historical novelist, this book is not the best example of her talents (or I've simply read too many of them).
This may be unfair to Penman--particularly as I just finished reading Anya Seton's Katherine, where the author takes a far more anthropological interest in 14th century England--but while this book is without a doubt solid on its historical information and psychological truths, its picture of 13th century life is sketchy.
Edward I, Edward Longshanks, Hammer of the Scots doesn't even get a mention in a list of Worst Kings of England.
Edward had little of any of that - he was ruthless.He also had a firm belief that God wanted him to.....do exactly as he pleased, which meant hammering Scots, going on Crusade to hammer infidels, decimating the Jewish population of England and annihilation of the Welsh, who it pleased him to see as being in rebellion against him.
Completing the trilogy that began with Here Be Dragons and continued with Falls The Shadow, this nov
This one was definitely the most emotional book out of the trilogy - actually, it’s the most emotional SKP book I’ve read yet.
I was so devastated for Davydd and his family at the end - but then, he did do a lot of growing up in the second half of the book.I was also devastated for Wales and the Welsh, though I’ve only ever been there once and have no prior attachments or associations with them, SKP makes you feel for them wholeheartedly nonetheless.
(hide spoiler)]I know that Edward I was known for his ruthlessness and this novel really does an excellent job at portraying why.At the risk of sounding like a fangirl, this is the best book I’ve read in the last couple years.
What a great book.
Along with an engrossing story I learned much about English history that I had never heard of before.
I have to admit, some of the things that came up during the courtship/marriage of Llewellen and Ellen seemed absolutely bizarre, and then I searched the internet on these characters and they did actually happen.
Edward I was and is an absolute two timing double faced snake in the grass!!
I won't give it away, but a scene at the end of the book was so heartbreaking I literally cried for about 10-15 minutes.
I can't recall any other book affecting me so.
Sometimes, it’s really difficult reading the novels of a writer whom you know takes great pains to be historically accurate while still telling a sweeping, dramatic and emotionally fraught tale.
So it is with Penman who, in this last book of The Welsh Prince series, brings the story of the struggles of the Welsh prince, Llewelwyn, and the machinations of Edward Longshanks, King of England, to a close.
For those who know the history, you understand the ending is not a happy one and it’s this that makes the novel difficult reading.
I can now say I've read all of Penman's novels, a baker's dozen of them, and my favorites remain The Sunne in Splendour and the first novel in the Welsh Princes trilogy, Here Be Dragons.
Not to be counted among my favorite books of all time and it didn't move me to tears--but great as historical fiction nevertheless.
As a love story, it's has it's share of the bitter among the sweet, but of all of Penman's books I'd say its the most upbeat.
All at the same time making medieval Wales terribly appealing to a modern reader.
This book tells the story of Llewellyn the last and Simon de Montfort's children, who are inextricably linked due to the cruelties of England's King Edward Longshanks, son of the ineffectual King Henry, and Llewellyn's planned marriage to Eleanor (Ellen) de Motfort.
The novel explores Llewellyn's tortured relationships with his brothers Owain, Davydd, and Rhodri, King Edward's relationship with his de Montfort kin, young Simon "Bran" de Montfort's guilt over his role in his father's death and the impact of the family's downfall on the de Montfort children.
I came to love so many characters in this books, that almost dreaded to read the author's note were she would reveal which were total creation, and it blows me away how she endowed them to the point that they could've existed!
Trough this trilogy I have found another great leader, one to admire and love, one I didn't know about: Simon the Montfort.
Will learn more about him and his great reforms, spectacular character, masterfully depicted here by Sharon.There's, in my opinion, no better way of learning history that trough SKP writing.
Had an special time, loved every second of it and will definitely read more of Sharon's books.
A blanket statement would be that I liked the books, which in a way was almost a given because of the subject matter; more succinctly put, I like her writing style.
So, putting the two together and adding a soupçon of historical accuracy embellished by her establishing a human aspect to the characters made these a really good read.
Even though I knew of Simon de Montfort's horrific death at Evesham at the hands of Edward's men, it was brought home much more by reading of the reaction of his family and friends.
It's the time of year to 'nest' with a good book & a cuppa :)
This book was heartbreakingly good.
I've read three other books by Penman and each one is such a pleasure to read -- I look forward to my bedtime so much more (and go to bed even earlier!) because I have one of her thick books to read.You probably already know how marvelous Penman is with her research, but she has a way of building the story that makes it seem so real -- well, real-er than a history book.
I got emotionally involved in the book, which is one of my criteria for a Truly Great Book.Hope you'll read it!Lori AndersonLori Anderson:The Store Pretty Things:The Blog Facebook
Summary: Brings to a close the struggles between Wales and England under Edward I, the complicated relationship between brothers Llewellyn and David ab Gruffyd, and tells the story of the women who loved them--a true tale of love and loss.Last month, I reviewed the second volume of the Welsh Princes Trilogy, Falls the Shadow, which focused on Simon de Montfort and his campaign for the rights of the people with their king.
Davydd marries Edward relation, Elizabeth at Edward's behest, a relation that blossoms into genuine love.Meanwhile, Llewellyn, fighting for Wales survival, and without an heir beside his betraying brother Davydd, revives his betrothal to Ellen, Simon and Nell's daughter.
This book was dull by the pages several times.
At times I would have rated the book one star.
At other times, all of the stars in the Milky Way would have been too few.
I read the Welsh trilogy straight through without a break, and my favorite character was the last Prince Llewellyn.
The Welsh aristocracy never caught a break, and their losses of kin, property and life made for such sad reading.
In reading this trilogy, I focused on the aristocratic ladies who rubbed elbows with the princes.
The women loved those men!Thank you, Ms. Penman, for a good read.
Even though I read this end to the trilogy without reading the prior books, I was completely hooked in this story about the last Welsh Prince. That is what makes any of Penman's books so fantastic-the ability to take any event in history and make it so real. Every character, whether a main or secondary, was so wonderfully written that I cared about the fate of each and every one- leaving me crying for the last quarter of the story.
A heart rending masterpiece.
In my memory, this third of the Welsh Trilogy was a bit of a re-tread and a bit weaker than the other two. On this reading, I found that I was much more engaged than in the second one, and much more gutted by the ending. A beautiful, well-written, education, meaty Historical Fiction. Nobody does this better than Sharon Kay Penman.
You already know that Wales is doomed as a separate political entity from England, but Penman frames the story in such a way that you grieve for the personal tragedies as well as for the unique Welsh way of life, in which, for example (and this is in the Middle Ages), a woman may leave (divorce) her husband for any reason.
The Welsh certainly fought among themselves for territory, for leadership of a "united Wales." But they united in fighting the English for their way of life.Though Penman's bias slants toward Wales and the Welsh princes -- Llewellyn "the Last" (as he would later be known) in THE RECKONING -- it is difficult even at a distance to sympathize with the English point of view.
What a wonderfully written book!
This book was the 3rd in a trilogy written about Wales.
I had very little knowledge of the history of Wales before reading this trilogy, and I loved the historical details that were a character in and of themselves in these books.
I learned quite a bit about the history of Wales and of England during the reading of the books.
The books chronicle three generations of Welsh leaders and the turmoil within their own families as well as within Wales and England.
I thoroughly enjoyed this trilogy of Wales and the family of Llywellyn Fawr.
This final instalment of Sharon Penman's 'Welsh Princes' trilogy charts the fortunes of Llewelyn (grandson of the Llewelyn of 'Here Be Dragons') and his wife, Ellen (daughter of Simon de Montfort of 'Falls the Shadow') and their struggles against the ruthless Edward I who is determined to crush Welsh independence.
It's no spoiler to say that there is no happy ending as obviously we know Wales is not a separate state and that the title 'Prince of Wales' is held by the heir to the British throne.
Yet again I had tears in my eyes at the end.
I can't praise this trilogy highly enough.
Wow. These people lives such amazing lives!
I have truly loved this 3 book series, but I didn't love the other books as much as I've loved this one!
What an amazing story.
I fell in love with the hero and heroin of this book.
They went through so many hard things together and apart, but a lot of amazing things, too.
It made it so much more fascinating to know that the main events truly happened.
Thoroughly loved their love story.
I felt like screaming at the injustices of things they went through!
But, I felt like it was kind of for the best.
Penman finishes her Welsh Princes trilogy with this book, and it is bang-up, just like the first two.
Once again, I found the real events in the history she recounts more gripping than a novel.
Once again, I also learned so much I had not known about this period of British history, about Wales, and about historic figures I either knew nothing about before this trilogy (Llewellen ap Gruffydd, Elen de Montfort, etc.) or only knew by name (Edward Longshanks.) I am now hooked on Penman's historical novels, and look forward to launching the next.
The last of the Welsh trilogy. I can't do better than Penman when looking through the local librray. She adheres strictly to chronicled facts - meticulously researched, and the past is portrayed in beautiful prose. I picked up one of her books ten years ago - recommended to me - and became an avid fan from then on in. I'm sitting on the edge of my seat waiting for Penman's next novel.
The entire series is wonderful. I was so sorry to see it end. I loved the characters and felt as though I knew them as they fought for the right of self rule for Wales against King Edward. For those who enjoy reading about the lives of those who went before us, I highly recommend this series. This brings our history to a personal level and makes us appreciate the lives of those who shaped our world, for good or evil. We see their struggles, weaknesses and strengths. A great series.
The Reckoning by Sharon Kay Penman was hard for me to read. I am a fan of Wales and to see them fall was hard. As it was written in the Welsh chronicler after Llewelyn ap Gruffydd died,"and then all Wales was cast to the ground." There was no way Davydd could keep it together. I found Edward mean and insufferable, He was a liar and was fickle and untrustworthy. Not a very good King in my opinion.
