https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12845.Tales_of_Power
My favorite Carlos Castaneda book by far.
The lessons in this book have a similarity to many things I've been discovering lately that I've garnished from many different sources.
I am not in a place to deny or confirm the truthfulness of the stories found in the Carlos Castaneda books.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is exploring their spirituality, or who has an interest in a culture that is so far removed from the one they are familiar with.
I think it is freaking hilarious when people find comfort in "proving" something like this to be a hoax. Even if it is completely what hoaxers say it is(n't?), I fully believe in Oscar Wilde:Now, the value of an idea has nothing whatsoever to do with the sincerity of the man who expresses it.
If this is a fiction - it's amazing!If this is real - it's amazing!
I was reading Castaneda books at the age of 15 and i can't put into words how much they impacted me. I was always searching for answers about god and Castaneda series of books explained and delivered it all. But you need to read all of them to understand the whole picture. Many of the Don Juan teachings corelate with modern day quantum physics theories, energy vibrations and law of attraction. I found it fascinating, you can connect them also to many spiritual belifs around the world they are just put into different words. 5/5
Tales of Power (The Teachings of Don Juan #4), Carlos Castaneda عنوان: افسانه های های قدرت؛ افسانه های قدرت (نخستین حلقه ی قدرت)۰ 1363 انتشارات فردوس ـ ترجمه ی مهران کندری و مسعود کاظمی۰
Sono appunto di parte perché vivo e studio lo sciamanesimo femminile, ma anche per questo posso presentare il libro sotto un altra prospettiva, fornendo la mia visione al riguardo e questo libro è una bella lettura, solo che deve essere letto con gli occhi chiusi al mondo (Tonal) il termine sciamana significa Colei che vede al Buio, secondo alcune interpretazioni e sostanzialmente il libro parla di questo o dimensione sottile se volete fornirgli un altra definizione.Don Juan un personaggio inventato da Castaneda, un maestro che non c'è, dice all'allievo che le donne hanno più dimestichezza con questa dimensione, appunto sciamanica, o magica le due definizioni divengono sinonimi, nel libro stesso, ed ha ragione, infatti il mestiere più antico del femminino è quello della sciamana, di colei che viaggia tra i mondi, Tonal e Nagual per dirla come li ha definiti Castaneda stesso nel libro.
Of the three, I most like The Teachings of Don Juan, his reworked doctoral dissertaion.In the years following I obtained a copy of Tales of Power ('74), fourth book in the series.
Having not followed the controversy since that initial Times article I have no opinion about Don Juan or what Castaneda's actual fieldwork, if any, was based upon.
The popularity of his initial trilogy during the sixties was likely based to some considerable extent on the fact that many recognized in his experiences and insights some of their own.In any case, having the fourth book anyway and recognizing this "certain authenticity", I proceeded to read it.
The second book '"A Seprate Reality" had some incredible imagery in it.
The third one "Journey To Ixtlan" had some of the best writing up to that point.
He even encourages him to ask any questions he wants and write everything down (something Don Juan previously mocked him for as trying to explain alternate realities when some things can't be explained using conventional wisdom).
Also the ending is such a great climax to the book.
This is truly one that you just don't want to end, it's that good.
I read Castaneda`s books, oh about 30 years ago. They had a big impact on me back then and while I don't think of them consciously now, I KNOW they are part of the ME thats passed through all the filters- and makes up whatever constitutes the deepest part of my being.
I read Castaneda`s books, oh about 30 years ago. They had a big impact on me back then and while I don't think of them consciously now, I KNOW they are part of the ME thats passed through all the filters- and makes up whatever constitutes the deepest part of my being.
Книгата определено отваря много теми за размисъл. Може да се каже, че не е я чета в подходящия момент от битието си. Оценявам я като идея, но човек трябва да е настроен по спиритуално, за да й даде по-висока стойност. Все пак бих прочела още нещо от Кастанеда.
The fourth book in Castaneda's tales of Don Juan is a brilliant blend of philosophy and story, somewhat inspired by Native American mysticism but made timeless through expertly woven undertones of eastern philosophy.
In years following the publication of these stories, the American culture may have taken a disapproving view of Castaneda's storytelling (calling them hoaxes with numerous inaccuracies concerning the traditions of the Yacqui and Mazatec Indians) but that probably just speaks to their near complete inability to understand and have practical purpose for mythology.
Encontré este libro muy interesante porque es toda una experiencia sensorial de la cosmogonía milenaria de las culturas indígenas Mesoaméricas, la comprensión del Tonal y del Nagual son conceptos metafísicos de difícil comprensión y determinan en buena parte la temática de este libro. Es sin duda una obra literaria compleja y tremendamente ilustrativa de un conocimiento ancestral con el que sentí gran conexión y simpatía. Me gustaron muchas de sus citas que resalte en mi lectura, el libro en general tiene gran sabiduría y me invito a una posterior reflexión filosófica en referencia a entender cuál es camino del guerrero.
Another book to read if you are on a path of Earth Spirit; and a whole lot more.
The same like the rest of the series, wonderful.
What we dream when we are asleep, what we daydream about, the things we carry with us, saved movements in time that are as real in the present as they ever were in the past, all get bundled into what we know, what we perceive.
They are books about a lot of things, but the uniting theme, among them, is a simple explanation of how most anyone perceives, thinks; how we form what is known as conscious thought, the inner voice.
I can just as easily reimagine a situation with a different outcome, and say it as such, an imagined thing, but as I am thinking it, it is as real as anything.
اعتماد به نفس یک سالک یا یک مبارز مثل اعتماد به نفس آدمهای معمولی نیستآدم معمولی اطمینان را در چشم دیگران جستجو میکند و اسمش را هم اعتماد به نفس میگذارد ولی یک سالک و مبارز، اعتماد به نفس را از دیدگاه خود میبیند و اسمش را فروتنی و تواضع میگذاردشخص معمولی متکی به دیگران است، ولی سالک و مبارز فقط و فقط به خودش متکی است
اعتماد به نفس یک سالک یا یک مبارز مثل اعتماد به نفس آدم‌های معمولی نیستآدم معمولی اطمینان را در چشم دیگران جستجو میکند و اسمش را هم اعتماد به نفس میگذارد ولی یک سالک و مبارز، اعتماد به نفس را از دیدگاه خود میبیند و اسمش را فروتنی و تواضع میگذاردشخص معمولی متکی به دیگران است، ولی سالک و مبارز فقط و فقط به خودش متکی است
Es uno de los libros más interesantes de la serie (hasta ahora). Se abren las puertas de lo desconocido para Carlos Castaneda y los conocimientos de los libros anteriores empiezan a unirse, gracias a las explicaciones de Don Juan, a la vez que hace un repaso general de lo que pasó en libros anteriores.
What an incredible journey! I laughed and exclaimed out loud during the last couple of chapters and was left in awe at the climax of Castaneda's adventure into Shamanism: what an impecabble warrior to behold! I wish personal, internal growth like this was accessible to the mainstream, imagine the possibilities; terrifying yet how liberating.
Sometimes I feel that the author is putting me on and other times I am not entirely certain. The author takes me through a convoluted path toward wisdom and hope. I have concluded that factual or fictional, it makes no difference. I try to keep my mind open to new thoughts and possibilities. Carlos presents both.
This is mostly about the tonal and nagual. There was a recapitulation at the end of the book, but I didn't understand it. I think that this book needs to be read after one fully understands the earlier books (or at least understands more about them than I do).
و بعد، من بودم، تنها
Excelente
[The reader soon stops finding it surprising.] Yet there are so many nuggets of wisdom in it, and I suppose similar nuggets are scattered through all the books."You must cultivate the feeling that a warrior needs nothing.
The friend need not respond at all, just refraining from disapproval or criticism.]"There is nothing wrong with the feeling of helplessness.
Both paths lead nowhere; but one has a heart, the other doesn't.
On the other hand, a path with heart is easy; it does not make you work at liking it." Ever since I read the book I have followed that advice.
It is not the time explaining the un-explainable nor is it the author's self important assumption that all readers will have read his previous works.
No, my main beef is with Carlitos' self pity, bowel releasing fear and his inability to accept the explanations given.Carlitos, the protagonist, asks questions, which is ok.
The annoyance is when the answer happens to be: "It cannot be explained." As a reader,I have to be content with the answer, but old Carlitos asks why it can't be explained; bringing one to the childhood game of questioning every answer with one word: Why?
June 2011Another box of books has been reopened for cleaning, sorting, and reevaluation and lo and behold, many of the collected works of Carlos Castaneda are part of the contents.Many years have gone but I remember this author and his works vividly.
There's a new series of works by authors/students in the same genre.
These are a continuation of the anthropological journey that Castaneda undertook to learn of his heritage and a way of life that existed if only in a shadow of the original form.This generic commentary is going to be applied to all the writings of CC as a review until a rereading decision is made.
I looked C up on wikipedia and it turns out he ended his days as the leader of a "suicide cult" so-called centered around ancient Toltec exercises he renamed "tensegrity" (I never knew) and that the validity of his books has always been in question, but that Castaneda had taken extreme steps to erase all evidence of his own existence, calling everything still further into question.
Anyway, the book had its moments, helped me think through a few things about my own unusual take on reality, and may or may not be true.
I am going to give the same review to all the Carlos Castaneda books I read in that series, simply because they are all outstanding.
I was lucky to come across Castaneda very early on my magickal path.
My spells and rituals have always relied on the power of intent, and I have found no better education on how to focus your intent than in this series of books.
And having been a Wiccan Faery Witch now for 13 years I know much of what is real to us is fiction to those not walking a magickal path.
These books are essentially a series of journals of Carlos Castaneda`s account of his studying under Don Juan - A Yacqui Indian Shaman.For anyone ever into Psychedelics or Native American Spiritualism ; Carlos Castaneda is undeniably one of the most captivating writers from the 70`s to capture the Imagination of the Dreamquest.These are engrossing reading at their finest.Some have speculated that this was nothing more then a Fictitious account used as a thesis for his Harvard Graduate doctorate.Nevertheless , he deserves some type of Literary accolades for this outstanding achievement in writing on this series.I have re-read these many times.
The book was alright. Beginning was much more interesting than the end to me, because it's less obscure. It's probably better to read his books in sequence, but I started with this one because we had it in the library.There are a lot of things I don't like about his writing, which are all mentioned in other review, however the ideas in the book are interesting enough that the style is not so important. The most important thing besides ideas presented, is how they're explained. This book is very easy to read and to understand.
I've read too many Castaneda books to review each individually, other than to say "I'm sorry I found this so compelling." I have to admit, I was conned.Also of note, is that outside of all the magical ubermensch stuff, the stable human themes are sterility, futility, failure, and survival through blind, dumb luck.Anyone with at least a passing interest in Castaneda's books should read this disillusioning Salon article.
