https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17288661-sycamore-row
For me personally, it would actually be a 2.5-star rating as Grisham's writing is commendable, but he has written so much better stuff.
Firstly, I didn't see why this had to be set back in the late eighties (did so many people really have car phones back then?) and although I read A Time to Kill, to which this has been dubbed a sequel of sorts, I read it more than 15 years ago and remember it being a lot better than this.
I really didn't get to root for or even relate to Jake, and the fact that his personal life was so hidden seemed strange.
Reading the first fifty pages of Sycamore Row I experienced two very different emotions.
Upon his death and his family’s arrival Lettie is cast aside like a mess on a shoe, left to fend for her family and unemployed.Now that I’ve finished Sycamore Row I can categorically say that those emotions never went away.
You never quite knew where the bubble would burst but you knew it would at some point.This is without doubt the best legal thriller I’ve read this year, hands down the best.
The handwritten will left 90% of Seth’s estate to his black maid, and caregiver, Lettie Lang, 5% to his long-lost brother, Ancil Hubbard, and 5% to his church.
Things get complicated and ugly fast, with Seth’s family trying to disparage Lettie at every turn so that they can convince the jury that Seth Hubbard was not in his right mind when he wrote the handwritten will.
Why would Seth Hubbard leave Lettie Lang all of his money?
.. the list goes on.Until Sycamore Row, the last John Grisham book I had picked up was The Pelican Brief, over twenty-five years ago.
The brother turns out to be a key - hardly surprising given the subplot - to the dead man's past, with a story about a childhood trauma of witnessing a horrible crime.
This is supposed to be a twist but honestly, most readers will see it coming since it is telegraphed all the way through the book that something awful happened in the housekeeper's family past, connected to the dead man's family past.Worst book that I've read by John Grisham and I only finished it because of my interest in the brother's subplot, which I knew would turn out to influence the ending.
I've read the precursor to this book, A Time to Kill, but don't remember much about it - it was a long time ago.
Having recently read another excellent courtroom yarn, in Michael Connelly's latest offering The Gods of Guilt, I had little hope this would compare favourably.
I was wrong, it's as good if not better.I love the Deep South setting and the characters Grisham develops here.
I loved it and have read all the books he's written since, each of them of the highest quality.
I'm hoping he springs back to form with his next book.
A smart, fast moving story about the legality of a Holographic Will.
Jake Brigance and the, "Time to Kill", original gang return with another southern, court room, roller coaster.
Jake Brigance is a handsome, lawyer who has a reputation for his ability to woo a jury.
Lawyers and family members start popping out of the woodwork when the dollar amount of the Will is revealed and then it is off to the races.
This is a must read for those of you that enjoy legal thrillers.
However, he doesn't leave anything to his kids or grandkids which erupts a legal battle that questions Seth's state of mind when he was writing the will and whether he was coached.The plot description definitely grabbed my attention as I assumed it would involve more exciting aspects but this wasn't the case.
The only real exciting moment of the book happens at the end but at the point I was disinterested in the looming mystery of why Seth really did it.
A Good Story!This is quite a good story especially if you are interested in a career as a lawyer. There is a lot of detail on preparing for the trial, seeking witnesses, and the actual trial itself. I was captivated right at the beginning and found it to be an easy satisfying read right to the end.
Initially I wasn't going to write a review for this forgettable novel but surprisingly I couldn't forget it.
No, Sycamore Row is not a great followup to A Time to KIll. It doesn't even compare to Grisham's The Chamber.
Seth Hubbard's children are vile people who cared nothing about their father until they pictured dollar signs upon his death.
Let's focus on what I liked about this sequel to A Time to Kill.
Honestly, Jake Brigance let me down.I have to stop ranting and say what I couldn't shake about this novel.
I liked this novel because it made me pace with apprehension.
I believe it is always wonderful to see an author return to his or her roots, the things that made them special and gave readers a thrill to have read them.
Suffice to say the story keeps moving, all 400+ pages of it with lots of twists and turns and things "lawyerly."I heartily recommend this novel and even though I am not a mystery book lover, this story made me want to rethink my "thinking." Read it and enjoy an author who has in my humble opinion found his way back home.
If you have read A Time To Kill and enjoyed it, you will almost certainly enjoy Sycamore Row. All of the characters rerun from the first book.
Jake Brigance a lawyer who at times seems to be in way over his head.
His pal and fellow lawyer Harry Rex, and Ozzie the sherif of Ford county.The story is about a handwritten will written by a man named Seth Hubbard done so the day before he hangs himself and whether the will is valid or if the one he had professionally prepared 3 years earlier is the one to be executed.
Twenty five years ago, the initial print run of John Grisham's first novel, A Time to Kill, was 5000 copies.
In his latest novel, Sycamore Row, Grisham takes us back to Clanton, Mississippi and his first character - 'street lawyer' Jake Brigance.
His new handwritten will lands in the office of Jake Brigance, delivered by mail the day after Seth's death.
Jake is extremely likable, principled and the kind of lawyer you'd want in your corner.
The legal machinations employed are just as detailed (and interesting) Grisham both grew up in the South and practiced law in Mississippi.
this book is very slow and boring. I am a die hard fan of john grisham and was deeply disappointed.
I love Grisham when he is on top of his game.
The beginning was wonderful, 5 stars all the way.
But when Grisham writes courtroom scenes, I can see and hear everything.
I feel it in my gut, the way he writes it.
Ending also, five stars all the way.
Even if you don't think courtroom thrillers are your thing, I think you should give this book a try.
Makes the book even better, which is what an audio performance should do, IMO.
It should make a great book even better.
Michael Beck does many of Grisham's books, and in my opinion, he is one of the best.
I was pleased to revisit Jake Brigance, who is one of my favorite Grisham lawyers as well as his colorful group of friends (and foes). This is a good story, a few twists and turns, but maybe a bit too predictable all in all. Grisham has done better courtroom drama, but he is still a master at building characters and telling their stories. Expected to love this....but it fell a bit short. Still, it is a Grisham story and always a dependable and enjoyable read.
Jake Brigance returns in Grisham's 'Sycamore Road' This novel is a sequel to 'A Time To Kill' but can be read as a stand alone.
So now you know there is going to be a fight to see if the old man was off his rocker.This a great courtroom thriller that brings about the subjects of segregation, racial prejudice,handsome white attorney.
Just remember, "its not about a fair fight, it's about winning."Don't I know it ?As I was reading this, I understand that this is fiction.
Some things are like one step forward, two steps back.
This was a great book and interesting to read.
This was one of the best books by John Grisham that I've read. I highly "recommend" it to anyone that enjoys the writing of JG. To the few people who have not read John Grisham, this title would be a good place to start. This book deals with subjects that effect our lives today: love, lies, greed, racism, hatred, revenge....all woven together in an absorbing story.
John Grisham, one of the most popular novelists of our time, first comes to prominence in 1988 with "A Time to Kill”, a story set in a small town called Clanton, Mississippi, about a ten-year-old black girl raped and disfigured by two whites, of an incensed father who takes the law into his own hands, killing the two rapists in a courthouse shooting, and of the young but sharp defense lawyer Jake Brigance who saved him from the gas chamber.Twenty-five years later, John Grisham brings back Jake Brigance to his stomping ground, the fictional town of Clanton, Mississippi and its courthouse in his new novel, Sycamore Row, which centers on a new trial that exposes Clanton’s uneasy past with race relations.
Every kind of attorney, from a black rights firebrand to a corporate hotshot to a disbarred alcoholic to earnest Jake Brigance makes an appearance, all of which inflames the community and creates a deep divide between local whites and blacks.All sides decide to have a jury trial to determine if the handwritten will is legal and binding - that is, if Seth was of sound mind when he prepared the will and not unduly influenced by Lettie.
While preparing for the trial one of the Hubbard family lawyers unearths information about Lettie's past and about Seth that he thinks will derail Lettie's claim.
Cranking out his first adult-fiction sequel was a good move, even if he chose his lackluster "A Time to Kill" as the source material.
It was a below-average legal thriller with a patently ridiculous climax, but folks were hungry for more Grisham, so it sold well and eventually got turned into a pretty good movie.Sycamore Row returns three years later (1988) to Clanton, Mississippi and its young legal eagle Jake Brigance.
Colorful characters show up.
It's totally predictable, and folks get lost in the huge cast of characters.
Still, it's the best thing Grisham has written in a very long time.Highly recommended.
The story was interesting. I thought it was really wordy. Every character was introduced and explained in much detail. It got to be a bit much at times. Some parts dragged. Some things were repeated too often. I wanted to know the ending but didn't always enjoy the journey.
As the executor of a dear aunt’s estate, I have lately become an unwilling student of the long drawn-out process known as probate.
With only memorabilia or an occasional antique at stake in our estates, I can only imagine what would happen if there was any real wealth.
I don’t have to imagine any longer, as John Grisham has spelled it out.
But Grisham allows me to keep faith in the small-town street lawyer, just trying to help the average Joe. The only reason this wasn’t 5 stars was the repetitiveness at about midpoint.
4.5 stars.
John Grisham is that promise of quick, pacy and excellent court room dramas. In his latest, he delivers on that promise and a little more. My thoughts.  What I liked: One, the pacy read. I know, a lot of reviews by fellow GR'ians say otherwise but I ask, what good court room drama can be written with lopsided or one-swoop wins? none; because unlike what bad writers tend to do, John Grisham knows that battle of wits and stratagem are won by the inches and millimeters. So, if you as a reader are o
John Grisham is that promise of quick, pacy and excellent court room dramas.
none; because unlike what bad writers tend to do, John Grisham knows that battle of wits and stratagem are won by the inches and millimeters.
So, if you as a reader are on the same page with Mr. Grisham on that aspect, trust me, this is indeed a pacy read in keeping with the true spirit of court room drama.
While I am not an expert in laws of Clanton or US but the narrative for court rooms scenes just ooze that touch only an insider like Mr. Grisham can know.
Don't bother. The usual 'rescuing' mentality at play.
Excellent read! I love Southern fiction and John Grisham and this was great. A moving story and a satisfying ending.
Who in the whole world does John Grisham think he is?! I always call it like I see it. You might not want to read this review but it's the bitter honest truth. Here goes... SPOILERS & Anger This book started out okay. I thought I was glad to see Jake Brigance after so many years from the Time to Kill book and movie. But this Jake, I don't even know who this was? This book in fact turned into something that ticked me off to no end. I thought this was going to be another courtroom drama based
Somehow in Mr. Grisham's book although it stated it was set in the 1980's all the black people were poor, uneducated, drunks, stupid and were as slow and dull as a step n' fetch it.
And when Lettie did have a lawyer a black character, Mr Grisham made a fool out of him.
When the case was won and Lettie was to have the money that was legally hers, Noooo the good judge had to step in and say that it should be put into a trust for the education of her family and not wasted on cars and frivolous things!
Grisham welcomes the reader back to Clanton, Mississippi for another visit with Jake Brigance, small-town lawyer.
A great follow-up for any admirer of A Time to Kill and Grisham fans alike.I have read a great deal about the comparison between the two Brigance books, as though one ought to pick up the thread of the other.
'A Time...' was penned back when Grisham was new to the writing scene and had little to no experience, while this is a book with over two decades of writing experience.
I was a little worried when I sat down to read Grisham’s latest which returns to the setting of A Time to Kill, Clanton, Mississippi and lawyer Jake Brigance.
Jake has never met him, but there it is – a letter naming him as the dead man’s lawyer and a new handwritten will, one that cuts out his family and leaves his substantial fortune to his black housekeeper, Lettie Lang.
The courtroom is full of lawyers - some for the kids, some for the grandkids, some for Lettie - and Jake as he fights to see that his dead client’s wishes are fulfilled.
"Metas žudyti", pati pirmoji Grishamo knyga ir, formaliai žiūrint, šios knygos priešistorė (nors pats autorius teigia, kad Jovarų takas nėra tęsinys, tiesiog tai kita istorija, kurioje daug tų pačių veikėjų iš "metas žudyti") man labai patiko, didelį įspūdį paliko ir jos ekranizacija su visu pluoštu pirmo ryškumo Holivudo žvaigždžių, ar bent vėliau tokiais tapusių - Matthew Mcconaughey, Sandra Bullock, Kevin Spacey, Oliver Platt, Sutherland Sr&Jr., Ashley Judd, Samuel L.
Taigi, kadangi pirma dalis buvo tokia žavinga ir man patikusi, labai laukiau šios knygos, ir su džiugesiu bei patosu balse skelbiu, kad ji manęs tikrai nenuvylė.
There is a chance that will change when reclusive millionaire Seth Hubbard ends his own life rather than waiting for cancer to kill him, naming Jake as the attorney who will handle the probate of his estate.
Jake will be paid no matter what, but he will have to work for his money – digging into Hubbard’s past to see exactly why someone would choose to leave such a fortune to a woman who had only worked for him a few years.I stopped reading Grisham 12 books ago.
Grisham provided those answers for me and at the end of the book I still loved the characters.
