https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16692325-the-crab-cannery-ship-and-other-novels-of-struggle

In the title novella, you feel like a member of the crew, living under horrible, diseased conditions in the "shit-hole" of a gigantic trawler and working for almost no pay.
Never once did I doubt the sincerity or drive of his characters to create a better future.Kobayashi, an organizing member of the Japanese Communist Party, was brutally murdered by the secret police of Japan's fascist regime, only because his works exposed the daily horrors of Japanese factories.
Works like Kobayashi's should be required reading for students, especially those who grow up in affluent neighborhoods without any conception of what it means to be exploited.
All three of these stories are just incredibly gruesome, dreary and depressing.
Kobyashi seems incredibly frank: there's probably not much else in popular fiction of the 1930s that covers situational homosexuality, is there?
Soiled underpants and loincloths, damp and giving off a sour stench, lay balled in shelf corners." TMI, Kobayashi.
A union official is living like a foreign spy or a terrorist; he's broken off all contact with his former life and assumed a new identity to build support amongst workers.
Others risk their lives and their dignity to help him in his work.
Makes you cry.In real life, Kobayashi was beaten to death by the police.
This text includes 3 stories by Kobayashi, most famously the Crab Cannery Ship.
I enjoyed reading these stories, though I was (unpleasantly) surprised to find that the Yasuko and Life of a Party Member were both unfinished tales.The writing style here is descriptive with very little individual characterization, but the world that is created is convincing and engaging.
The Crab Cannery Ship itself is likely worth the price of admission for anyone who would enjoy this sort of lit, the other 2 stories are take it or leave it affairs for me.
Five stars because its hard to hold the author accountable for not properly finishing his work as he was tortured and killed by police for his political views. Despite not being the most famous work included, I thought Yasuko was the best of the three stories. The introduction was also very well done.
