https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/529626.Sometimes_a_Great_Notion
It's an incredible family—Henry, the patriarch, the crazed, stubborn old goat who started the logging business; his son Hank (stoic, serious, earnest, proud, charming) and Hank's cousin Joe Ben (brimming with enthusiasm and joy and good will), who now run the company; Hank's gorgeous and quiet and wonderful wife Viv; and Hank's much younger half-brother Leland, an intellectual and a weakling who fled the rough workaday life as soon as he was old enough, and now lives in New York where he is finishing college.
I haven't said hardly anything about Hank, Joe Ben, Viv, Leland, and Henry, because if I start writing about them, I'll end up transcribing the entire six-hundred-page book here.

Every character has a turn at first person voice and the speaker can switch several times, sometimes even within a single paragraph.
Seems confusing but I rarely had to reread because Kesey is that good.
When the town finally thinks it has crushed Hank Stamper, there is only superficial joy, because his spirit was the spirit that had all given up too long ago.Criticism: characters were a bit simple.
Just the same, they aren’t not flat but very real, just a little simple.Question: Why didn’t Kesey ever manage to be that good again?
Hands down the most underappreciated American novel ever!
I think it should be up there with "Moby Dick" "Grapes of Wrath" etc.
In fact, I think it is better.
it's hard to imagine Ken Kesey, hippy acid head that he was would be able to so write so poignantly and beautifully but he absolutely pulled it off, his other famous novel "One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest" doesn't even hold a candle to "Sometimes a Great Notion" It's rather long and it is written in a "Faulkneresque" style where POV's switch back and forth but you get used to the rhythm you can easily sense the flow between characters points of view.
If V. Woolf hada) grown up within sight of the Coastal Range, andb) enormous, swinging testes,then this book would be sold in a 3-pack with "Mrs Dalloway" and "The Waves" today. It's such literatoor, but it's so masculine and so blue-collar also. God I love it. The beautiful, funny slang; the creepy, right-on descriptions of the menacing landscape... It's got man vs. land and man vs. man. Who could ask for anything more?
You know how George R.R. Martin changes narrative voices between chapters?
Well, this book does that, but within paragraphs.
In the first hundred pages, there were a few paragraphs that had, internally, four different perspectives.
And I thought, what have I gotten myself into?
Is this pretentious?
Is it precious?
And more to the point, can I put up with this for 700 pages?Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
I must admit that the premise for this novel – a strike in the logging industry during the 1960s – didn’t exactly set my heart aflutter with excitement, but I loved Kesey’s writing so much in One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest that I really wanted to give this one a chance.
What is it like to feel intense hatred for someone and be cursed to incurably love them at the same time?
It’s about the consequences of our decisions and the way one moment can change the rest of one’s life.
Ken Kesey, Sometimes a Great Notion (Bantam Windstone, 1964)I really, really wanted to like this book.
Well, to put it in as few words as possible, Kesey's writing style.One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest works, and works so well, because it's tight.
Kesey knows what he wants to say and says it.
But if Cuckoo is Kesey's Christmas Carol, then Sometimes a Great Notion is Kesey's Bleak House.
If you thought that was painfully unreadable, Sometimes a Great Notion may well send you into apoplectic fits.
I'm going to divide my review of this into 2 sections: me as a reader, and me as a writer:I love reading books that straddle that line between profundity and enjoyment.
He avoids this because of the tone with which he wrote the book: it's fun to read.
Some times, maybe it's better to write a fun, kick ass, hilarious, vivid, sad, confusing, all-encompassing messy book!
There's a vitality and life in this narrative; it almost feels conversational, like someone's whispering it in your ear.
But if you don't like "working" a bit to decode what's happening on the page, this one probably isn't for you.Definitely in my top five all time...
My husband had gone to high school with his son and described a Ken Kesey separate from the Merry Prankster charter member and that public persona.One late spring afternoon, we were driving from Springfield towards Pleasant Hill, and came up on a big old convertable -- maybe a Caddy -- with the man at the helm with a grin on his face and the wind ruffling his greying hair.
I had picked up and put down this book so many times, trying, without success, to make it through the first 100 pages.
It was only until a co-worker and i decided to form a "one-off" book club in order to read it before a theater adaptation by a local company that i made any real progress.
however, hang on because somewhere around page 120 the whole book suddenly opens up and the story just -clicks- into place.
i absolutely loved this book and am looking forward to reading it again and again in the future.
If you have read One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, realize before you begin reading Sometimes a Great Notion that this is not that.In case you missed my biasedness, I like Ken Kesey’s first novel.
Because there’s plenty to like about Notion: at times, Kesey’s manly-man poeticism; his terrific characterization of his main players and supporting cast; his use of setting, rooting us into this Oregon logging town; as well as establishing and always sticking by his theme.The reason why I had trouble with this novel is because it’s a difficult reading experience.
If you've had a good psychedelic trip where you turned around your perception and saw the holiness and glory of dirt and death and trees and life and how everything vibrates and you can never unsee it and wouldn't want to, you know what I'm talking about.I'll be adding to this review as I read it but already I can tell you one thing about this book that makes it so awesome is that there is more going on in one paragraph than most books have in a whole chapter.
Oddly enough, I wasn't terribly confused by the character-jumping narrative, for me the trudge came at the hands of the drawn out descriptions, the constant, seemingly trifling ruminations, and the inexplicably soap operatic family skeletons, so easy to predict yet delivered with such severe, assured confidence.
Somewhere in this book is a great American novel, but it somehow falls just short.
It's a huge, sweeping novel, but I could never get beyond feeling that the story itself was much smaller than the book it came in, like a giant box with a small present inside.
The opening is difficult to get through, and I needed to start reading it three times over the last few years just to build up enough momentum to get through it.
No doubt about it, Sometimes a Great Notion is a difficult novel.
But I also think it is a great novel.
And once I reached the middle of it I realized that I was reading a masterpiece.This is a book about men, what it means to be a man, issues of being a man etc.
Kesey knows his woods like Richard Powers' tree bible only from opposing sides which brings me to a salient query: isn't it funny, strange, mystical, etc., how books bleed into each other?
I didn't plan to read Saragamo's "Cain" followed by Steinbeck's "EoE" followed by Kesey's own more subtle twist on biblical Cain & Abel metamorphoses (Ovid's book too) spin.
Just like those (Powers) trees communicating to each other, attentive, free-wheeling readers riding that perpetual wave of euphoric imagination catch a 'notion' of where next to go unbeknownst as where one goes many the time, a casual blink here, a nod from there, here, read this next!
Kesey's masterful novel about a logging family in the Pacific Northwest and the impact of a strike in collision with their never-say-die attitude towards the world, has been somewhat overshadowed by the success of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, and that is unfortunate, for it is one of the best novels written about the west and the western mindset.
Belongs on the shelf with Stegner's Big Rock Candy Mountain, Denis Johnson's Dead Again, and Steinbeck's East of Eden.
A movie was made from it with Michael Sarrazin, also Paul Newman, Henry Fonda and Lee Remick--why do I only remember Sarrazin?
The only Kesey book I've appreciated. His best depiction of Oregon.
It's hard to know where to begin - the back of my edition proclaims, "The earthy, torrid story of a lusty, yelling, Paul Bunyan of a man and his battles with society." (In fact, it proclaims that all in caps.) That sort of describes an aspect of the book, but mostly it's kind of like those ads for action movies where they play up the love story angle to try to get the women to come and see it - you know how they cut together the 5 minutes of time actually devoted to the supposed love story and then have a voiceover of something like, "a love that wouldn't be denied"?
The second wife eventually leaves him (she was from the east and not the kind of woman cut out for living in a shack on the shore of a river in the middle of nowhere Oregon), taking young Lee with her.
Published in 1964, the plot revolves around the fictional Stamper logging family who reside along the Oregon coast.The setting is the mid-1900s, when loyalty still meant something.
The story itself is told in an ever-changing, and sometimes challenging, POV between the main characters of Hank Stamper, the oldest son, Lee, the half-brother of Hank, and to a lesser extent Old Henry, the patriarch.
Lee, having been on the East coast since the age of twelve, returns to the family home in Wakonda as a young man bent on settling a score.A wide variety of characters inhabit the small town of Wakonda and they all have important struggles within themselves.
Issues both real and imagined rise up and have to be dealt with, culminating in an amazing bar scene where the brother refuses to fight someone to prove a point but the main character takes it the wrong way and the brothers’ sacrifice seems wasted.One of the strongest elements of the book, I think, is that we hear both brothers’ thoughts, giving the reader both sides to the story.
It's lovely.
The writing is lovely.
I was constantly thinking of turning down corners to mark passages only to turn the page and find something more beautifully written.
I can't seem to find a way to tell you about it without ruining the surprise.
I hadn't read any reviews.
I think that is the best way to read this novel.
Let it surprise you.
It's a bit unsatisfying, the ending, but it has occupied my mind from the second I turned the last page.
Perhaps that's the best ending of all.Go read it.
It takes a little getting used to but the effect is worth the effort.There were many wonderful aspects of the book including the humorous dialogue and the fascinating group of supporting characters, but my favorite part was Kesey’s descriptions of the Northwest.
I’ve never been to the Northwest, but Kesey’s book allowed me to visit for a little while.The actual plot of the novel is almost irrelevant.
The main draw of the novel is to watch the conflicts between the Stampers and the town and between the members of the family themselves.
Tried to read this in my early 20's or late teens after Cuckoo's Nest and the now questionible "Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test."Wasn't ready for a book that truly captures the NATURE of coastal Oregon, let alone loggers in a grand Shakespearean manner.
Kesey could have taken that LSD and run wild with it, yet I think it opened his mind so that he could really get into some characters, and really see the relationship between man and nature.
Kesey was high on drugs when he wrote the book and from what I understand it is obvious to the reader.
That doesn't diminish the straightforward message of this movie.Sorry fella, no weirdness here.

This book is mind blowingly amazing. The first 100 pages are a real slog, but once you're in the story is like a river current that won't let you go. A quintessential Northwest read, I highly recommend this book for anyone looking for a moving, memorable and challenging read.
The StoryThe struggle and ultimate acquiescence to nature (and reckoning with ultimate power [God]) is the theme of this huge, rollicking, informative and most interesting story: Nature seen in the ever-present rain and wind, the rivers, the trees, seasons, the moon and the entire animal kingdom.
This story is told from a huge array of characters, each defined in loving detail, including their unvarnished physicality as well as their frame of mind.NatureKesey tells of the old time ways and inexplicable response of a wild animal upon being rescued (analogous to himself, as we will see), on coming on a swimming deer while checking with an old Swede his crab pots in the mouth of the river leading to the ocean(p.
I completely failed to identify him as the author of the excellent One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, a book that left images in my mind that remain today (e.g., Chief throwing the heavy bathroom fixture out the window).
All of this came together to remind me that I liked Kesey's writing, that I had never read Sometimes a Great Notion, and that perhaps 'someday' had come.I tend not to use bookmarks.
(To be fair, Kesey knew the area much better than that, but it doesn't come out.)There is a certain grand, very Greek and tragedic aspect to the plot - larger than life family members and all the wrong people having sex.
When you mention the novelist Ken Kesey most people respond with a reference to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, especially after the Academy Award-winning film version directed by Milos Forman and starring Jack Nicholson added to its' fame.
No Northwest novel may have a more Northwest opening passage than "Sometimes a Great Notion," which begins as Kesey tracks the birth of a river:"Along the western slopes of the Oregon Coastal Range ...
By the way, in 1970 there was film version of Sometimes a Great Notion.
Besides escape, he has a more sinister motive: revenge on his half-brother Hank, who he's had a fierce grudge against since childhood.The first time I read it, it took me about 50 pages to even recognize what in the hell was happening.
The closest thing to a bad guy is the union organizer who is trying to get the Stampers to stop working, but even HE gets his own lengthy chapter where it tells his whole life story and transforms him into a sympathetic man who is only trying to do what is right for the town.
Even the most minor characters get their own threads that tell some amazing story about their life.This book isn't for everyone.
