https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17834834-once-we-were-brothers
In reading the reviews for this well written first novel I am totally aghast at the low scores that people are giving this outstanding novel!
Well written and historically accurate, the book gets into to your soul and you cannot put it down.
I felt it was an awe inspiring first novel and I look forward to reading what comes next from Mr. Balson.
I will look forward to his future work and can now acclaim myself a true Ronald Balson fan!
That aside, if you have never heard of the Holocaust and need a quick but somewhat flawed understanding of the Holocaust in Poland during WWII and do not mind mixing your genocide with a modern day is-he-a-Nazi or isn't-he-a-Nazi accusation that involves a young lawyer and her soon to be SPOILER ALERT.....
Balson writes that there was a 26 mile buffer zone around Auschwitz "to hide the camp from the outside world"; however, many of the townspeople lived close to the camps, saw the daily trains, and most of all, smelled the odor of buring flesh.
And every time I looked over he was staring directly at her, I never saw his eyes look away for even a second.' When describing what they said, you would probably paraphrase, only quoting the subjects if a particular line really stood out; 'They were arguing over money, about what they could afford.
These are things you could talk about afterwords if your friend still had time ('and to think, just earlier today I read an article about diminished domestic strife') but would distract from the impact of your narrative if you included them earlier.In Once We Were Brothers, Ben Solomon has a dramatic story to tell.
Sadly the execution of telling the story is terrible.
This book reads like a cheesy predictable soap opera.
In fact most of the characters seem like the same person with different lines.
and that was just one of the ridiculous questions about the holocaust posed.) The main character seems like a condescending no it all and the bad guy turned from hating the Nazis to being a Nazi in no time at all.
If you want to read a book about the holocaust there are many awesome books, fiction and nonfiction alike, written about this time in history, unfortunately this isn't one of them.
5 STARSSENSATIONAL... it would make a fabulous movie. Took me a while to get into it, but after the midpoint, I couldn't put it down. Well done. And the narrator was fantastic.
How did they survive and deal with all that was going on especially the Jewish population?This compelling WWII book is one you will want to read.
It's Chicago, 2004,when Holocaust survivor, Ben Solomon accuses a wealthy businessmen, Elliott Rosenzweig,of being former Nazi SS officer, Otto Piatek, otherwise known as the "Butcher of Zamosc." To no one's surprise, Rosenzweig denies his accuser as nothing more than a sick man dealing with tragedies of the past.
Catherine is at first, reluctant to accuse the prominent businessman of such horrific crimes,but as Benjamin tells his story and strange events begin to happen, Catherine starts to realize that there may be more to the story than meets the eye.Wonderfully paced and historically well researched, Once We Were Brothers is a great read.
I’m not inclined to pan a book, but here goes...At a very public event Ben Solomon, an 83-year old Polish concentration camp survivor living in Chicago, attacks Elliot Rosenzweig, a Chicago philanthropist.
Solomon claims that Rosenzweig is really Otto Piatek, a Nazi who stole Solomon’s family’s treasures.
We are asked to believe that Catherine will sit for many unbillable hours listening to Ben’s overlong story while she ignores her paying clients and her partners’ demands for billings.
And do we need to hear the story of Nazi cruelty in Poland at such length—is the supposedly intelligent and highly educated Catherine so clueless that she must be told?
Several issues raised by Balson resonate sharply with me as I work through similar issues in my own new novel.WARNING … POSSIBLE SPOILERS BELOW,,, Ben hates his former friend and "brother" Otto for failing to save his parents and others from Nazi torture and murder but gives no credence to the enormous risks Otto did take to save Ben and his wife, the unsuccessful but still substantial efforts Otto made on behalf of others, and the numerous warnings he made for all of them to leave Poland while they still could.
Is the one person who all know as the richest benefactor of the town secretly a Nazi war criminal who escaped Germany and has been in hiding for the last 60 years , Ben thinks so and in fact he thinks he knows that one man as a child that both his parents took care of when that child was abandoned by his parents in Poland , all because they couldn't take care of him at that moment.
We are transported to War torn Poland , to the polish and Jewish resistance, to the concentration camps , to convents and finally to America, all leading towards an unknown end.
The thrill is perhaps in going through WWII with Ben. We go back and forth in time as Ben tells his story to convince a young attorney than a very rich and prominent Chicago philanthropist is in reality a childhood friend of Ben's named Otto Piatek, who was abandoned by his parents and went to live with Ben's family.
Ben would have appointments with Catherine, the attorney, and while he is telling his story we are transported back to Poland just as Hitler is coming into power.
When his time is up with each session, we are dropped back into the present, like going on a roller coaster.
I signed up for a chance to receive an advance readers' copy of Once We Were Brothers through Good Reads and was lucky enough to be sent a copy.
I didn't intend to because it was the wee hours of the morning when I picked up the book, but I couldn't lay it down.The story moves back and forth between a Polish Jew's account of his family's experiences during Hitler's rise to power and WWII and a young lawyer's originally reluctant but eventually determined effort to help Ben Solomon receive justice by bringing a lawsuit against a wealthy Chicago philanthropist admired by all and seemingly untouchable.
The man, Ben Solomon, is tackled and arrested and Rosenzweig denies this allegation.
Yet Ben Solomon is sure that this man was not just a Nazi but also his brother.
In the court of public opinion, will Rosenzwieg's name be tarnished or are those accusations the ramblings of an old man?I love reading and have a particular affinity with historical fiction.
As you are reading, there is doubt as to wether Solomon is right about Rosenzweig but he remains likeable none-the-less.While I like the book there are a few issues.
One of the best audio books I have listened to. I loved this book and would classify as a WWII Crime Thriller. I look forward to more in this series.
As written on Amazon......From Nazi-occupied Poland to a Chicago courtroom Elliot Rosenzweig, a respected civic leader and wealthy philanthropist, is attending a fundraiser when he is suddenly accosted and accused of being a former Nazi SS officer named Otto Piatek.
Although the charges are denounced as preposterous, his accuser, Ben Solomon, is convinced he is right.
Solomon urges attorney Catherine Lockhart to take his case, revealing that Otto Piatek was abandoned as a child and raised by Solomon's family only to betray them during the Nazi occupation.
But has he accused the right man?
Balson, is a Chicago trial attorney and educator.
I have read dozens of Holocaust books and found this novel to be well written and captivating.
For readers who know little of the Holocaust as well as for readers who DO know of the Holocaust, the author paints a picture of survival, determination and love.
He illustrates determination to seek his retribution for the devastation he suffered and continued to endure as a result of the war and his once friend/brother, Otto, and the Nazis.Ben, Hannah, Catherine & Liam were compelling.I was most satisfied with the ending of the novel.
I now need to discuss it right away with someone else who has also read it!
Balson is a novel with a compelling plot about two boys and a family that struggles to survive in war-torn Poland.
Two lives, two worlds and sixty years all on course to collide in a fast paced legal thriller.The book's premise is extremely compelling, and the shifting events from present-day Chicago to war torn Poland and back create an interesting narrative that makes for a good paced read.
The story however is very well researched historically and is an easy and interesting read.
I did enjoy this novel and I would have rated it a 3.5 if I could.
Ben Solomon accuses one of the richest, most philanthropic men in Chicago of being the Nazi, Otto Pietak.
But Otto became enamored of the power being a Nazi gave him and he ended up being as brutal as any, actually sentencing Ben's family to death.I liked this book on many levels.
I liked how Catherine was so impatient with Ben getting on with his story at first, then gradually becoming entranced by it.
The only thing that didn't ring true for me, and it's trivial yet still bugs me, is that Ben puts flowers on Hannah's grave, which is totally a non-Jewish thing to do.
This was a compelling book and I stayed up late to finish it, but I thought it would have been much better if there were more nuance to the good Jews and bad Nazis theme.
For example, what was going on with Otto's transformation from son in the family to evil Nazi.
Did he always feel like an outsider?
Slighted by not being part of the family?
Did he suffer for his decision to shoot the father, or did he feel that he was saving him from torture?
Ben Solomon and his Jewish family took in a Gentile child named Otto Piatek and raised him as their own son from 1933 on because his father was out of work and the German mom left Poland for her native Germany.
First, both Catherine/Liam and readers get to hear the whole story of what happened in that town to those people as part of the story and while there is a lot of history discussed as it happened to Sam and his family, his future wife Hannah and her family and Otto, that is part of the story and explains Ben's actions in 2004/2005.
I LOVED THIS BOOK! Ben was such a dear heart! The way this story unfolded was like a historical fiction, courtroom thriller. It was so good!
I've read a lot of books, both fiction and non-fiction, set in this time period and this just failed to pack a comparable punch.
The author is trying to teach the reader about the history, which is important, but in doing so, he makes one of his characters seem horribly uneducated about the most basic of details.
Many of facts presented read like Wikipedia entries rather than plausible dialogue.
Structurally, I think it would have been much better to start the narrative in Nazi Europe, giving all of the necessary details, and then bring us to the present chronologically, culminating with the lawsuit.
Or even a non-linear structure would have worked better.
A gripping read with a brilliant premise that kept me guessing until the end.
"Otto, who is much younger, taller, and stronger than Stanislaw, steps forward and blocks Stanislaw's approach. 'Don't you ever push anyone in my house,' he says. 'Ever. Or I'll break you into little pieces...' Catherine shook her head. "The Otto you're describing in your story, he's...""Once we were brothers," said Ben sadly. This was not my normal read, I have to admit. Not that I specifically stay away from these types of books, but historical fiction just doesn't seem to appeal to me as muc
Ben Solomon spots billionaire and philanthropist Elliot Rosenzweig on television one random evening then makes his way to a charity event in order to confront him with an (unloaded) gun and accuse him of being Otto Piatek and the butcher of Zamość.
When Otto's parents make another appearance 6 years later, his mother holds an important position as secretary to a very important Nazi and has been receiving bits and pieces of info that she has pieced together to form a solid idea of what's to come for several Polish cities, including Zamość, and insists once again that Otto leave with them, only this time her pleas are desperate.
However, at about the midpoint this turned into quite "I cannot put it down" and "one more chapter" book.Elliot Rosenzweig is a wealthy Chicago philanthropist and is attending the opening night at the opera when Ben Solomon, a retired Polish immigrant, makes his way through the crowd and puts a gun in Rosenzweig's face claiming that he is Otto Piatek, a former SS officer.
He hires a young attorney, Catherine Lockhart, to whom he relates the story of his family's struggles and atrocities endured in Nazi occupied Poland.
Sometimes they get to shed light on history in a way that works, but too often the author makes them mouth didactic information he thinks we should know.
A character's authenticity limned by his going into a trance-like state and using the present tense as though re-experiencing the past, when such a mode more nearly raises doubts about over-suggestibility.I sensed a subtext of anti-Holocaust denial.
That's genuine.I've been thinking that "speaking truth to power" often doesn't look like a big hero surrounded by compatriots and striding up boldly to confront society, but like a little guy shaking in his (or her) boots.Everyone complains that the deck is stacked.
WWII and the Holocaust are elements of our recent history that are still real – still raw.I guess that’s why countless books, documentaries, poems, and movies cover this topic.
And it’s one that’s been written better.On the cover, it’s marketed as “the next Sarah’s Key.” I’ve read Sarah’s Key and it’s one of my all-time favorites.
And therefore, loses interest in the outcome of what should be a beloved protagonist.Would I recommend it: Only if you enjoy reading 400 page newspaper articles or legal briefs.
I know it is fiction, but the author's descriptions of Poland before and during WWII are so well written, you just know there was tons of research.
The author captured this most horrific moment in time in such a way that compels you to open your eyes to the horror, but at the same time to bear witness to the love, strength, endurance and will of a group of people to not only survive, but to live.
This is not an "entertaining" book, it is an "experience".
Thanks to the author for the experience.
I was really looking forward to reading this, however, the story and its characters lacked feeling. About 3/4 of the way through I did finally glimpse some of the emotion that I was looking for. The premise was a really good one, I just really was expecting it to grab me and, sadly, it didn't.
My mother was less concerned with the book's merit as a novel -- which is where, for me, it falls somewhat short.There are two timelines, and the historical narrative is by far the better of the two, though the device of having it told in the present does not always work well.
The characters of Ben Solomon, his family, his girl, and his foster brother turned enemy, Otto Piatek, are well realized and nuanced, and their story is compelling.
The novel was Balson's first, and I've read worse first efforts, but there's a somewhat amateurish feel to it at times.(view spoiler)[This might be an unduly literary approach, but Balson had the opportunity to write a considerably more interesting story.
