https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99085.Lord_Brocktree
As he once wrote in the introduction to the Friend and Foe guide, "Goodies are good!" And yet, despite growing up on his work, I find myself less and less fond of black-and-white morality over time.
It is therefore notable that one of the main characters, and the one written most so that the reader identifies with her, is young and female - not exactly a common choice for a genre which is traditionally extremely masculine.Reflecting on Dotti got me thinking about one of the things I like best about Redwall in general: that in the years I've been reading the series, I've never felt like there was no place for me in the world it portrayed.
Sad to have finished this one. I do love a Redwall tale. There is something infinitely comfortable about them and yet they still entertain.
Lord Brocktree is awesome...he's kind of like this big, gruff warrior 'guy' with a poor ability to hide his true gentler side.(read about the way he acts around the molebabes and such). Dotti Duckfontien Dilworthy or whatever is a very amusing character, I really like the way Jaques portrays her spunk. The two twin hare brothers that you meet later in the story are also amusing, especially in the way they admire Dotti's singing.(Not everybody likes her voice, you know)
One one hand, the book contains a fun and interesting story with likable characters.
Yes, Brocktree and Stonepaw are interesting characters who have a fun supporting cast up against an intimidating villain.
But with everything that works well in Lord Brocktree, there's a fault that offsets it.Chief among those faults is the large amount of unnecessary content, especially in the first half of the book.
While I don't expect every species to talk exactly like the others, some characters (any mole, for example) speak in nigh unreadable dialects.
It's an epic story with a large cast of fun characters.
You know how the story turns out after five minutes of reading and nothing really comes as a surprise.The other thing that drives me nutty lately about the Redwall series is that animals like Rats, Weasels, and Stoats automatically have cruelty and brutality hardwired into their brains.
That's almost racist.Another thing that rubs me the wrong way with not just Lord Brocktree but the entire Redwall Series are the kids/dibbuns are virtually idiots and are basically implied to be seen and not heard.
Very excellent. This story, like the previous two books I've read in this series, boasted a nice [somewhat] fresh plot from the usual fare you get from Redwall. It was quite well done and enjoyable.
I just love every single book of the Redwall stories. I love the simpleness of plot, yet charmingly told. I love the characters, I love the things they do best. I love how the author painstakingly written down every weird accent, and I love how he created all the lovely food. I love all the wise advice along with the story; classic, told in old ways, but never boring with stories like this. A great children book!
Beautiful Book, I absolutely adore Brian Jacques' writing, i have read many of his book multiples times starting at a young and continue to read them into my adult years. They never get boring dull or cumbersome. They may come across as whimsical to some, however this is what i love most about them. We all need more Whimsy in our lives.
Loved it. Brian Jacques is a force to be reckoned with.(I've read the entire series)
In fact, it doesn't do anything to distinguish it from the other books in the series, not even containing the iconic Lord Brocktree.While these books usually have one character that carries me through, all the characters in this book are kind of jerks, even the good guys.
In fact, if it weren't for the the fact that certain types of animals are always good and certain others evil, you'd have a hard time distinguishing the good and bad guys in this book.
Not the best Redwall book, but still good.
As many have said, Redwall has a plot pretty much set.
Villain comes and does evil (Usualy a wildcat, rat, stoat, ferret, weasel, fox or bird of some sort) and a hero saves the day, usualy with killing only the main villian.
Usualy, there is another to continue said villainy, not just a bunch of cowards.
Regardless, a good series and book in general.
I like that we get to see more of the Redwall world, like in Mossflower and Martin the Warior to name a few "roaming" books.
I found a signed hardcover copy of this on a BARGAIN TABLE once. Best purchase ever!
Spoiler alert!Beautifully told. When Fleetscut and Jukka died together I literally cried, two enemies united in the end. Perfect.
Lissen, matey, you get back t’the cave an’ tell ‘em to whomp up vittles for victors…”But I don’t want to scare you away from Jacques’ world – it’s a beautiful, lifelike, engaging place where the badgers and hares and squirrels battle wildcats and rats and a fox named Groddil, who takes a well-deserved place among the literary characters I will never forget.It’s epic good and evil, with feasts and weapons and battle plans and young warriors jockeying for a maid’s favor.
Honestly a really good read, very descriptive and engaging. I was surprised how violent it got for a children's story. It was turned out to be a really good fantasy adventure story, with really interesting and well developed characters.
I read this one to my kids. How can you not love an epic fantasy story about a Badger Lord taking back his mountain kingdom from a deranged wildcat? And there are so many otters! It's too bad Jacques has passed away.
Reaching back through the rich and awe-inspiring history alluded to in previous Redwall novels, Brian Jacques casts a mesmerizing spell of gorgeous language and strong, brave characters in the telling of the legend of Lord Brocktree, the first Badger Lord to organize Salamandastron into the powerful fortress that it would become in later years, home to the stouthearted Long Patrol of fighting hares and the ever-present Badger Lord, who always fought with everything he (or she) had in the interest of justice for all creatures, often sacrificing his or her own life to rid the world of unsavory vermin whose influence was good for nothing but to tear down and destroy the thoughtful work of peaceable creatures.
(3/5★)The Redwall books were a staple of my childhood reading.
While the stories told are usually fairly formulaic throughout the series, there is a certain charm that each book has that still makes it an enjoyable and comfy read.
The monstrous badger Lord Brocktree himself is possibly one of the most badass heroes Jacque's has ever created, and helps pave the way for the lore of the series considering that this book, chronologically, is the first.
While the ending is great, the build up to it was very slow and almost difficult to get through at times - mostly because of certain dialects that are exaggerated and grating to read.
My exposure to the Redwall series has been that of attempting to read Salamanastron when I was a kid and not getting passed the first few chapters due to the dialect.
A few years ago i attempted to try to break into the series again as I read through Redwall and thoroughly enjoyed it.
I was a bit surprised to read this in the book as besides a few mentions of animals fighting and killing each other during certain battles, the rest of the book is animals singing and eating and all in all being pretty innocent.Lord Brocktree, it's a decent little book but to me it just felt like it needed to be more focused on the task at hand and a little less focused on meals and songs.
Lord Brocktree is probably the cleverest Badger Lord of the Redwall series and throughout the book relies more on his brain than his brawn.
Her emphasis on proper manners just to rile her opponents made for some of the funniest scenes in the book, and let’s not forget all the times she called herself a “kingess.”All of the Redwall books have fighting in them, and most have some sort of war, but I think that this book has the best depiction in terms of siege, battle plans, etc.
I've been a massive fan of Brian Jacques ever since I was a child(or a dibbun as they would say in the Redwall world) and re-reading the series changes very few things for me.The plot is simple: Peace has gone on for too long near the mountain fortress of Salamandastron; the ancestral home of the badger lords.
Meanwhile, an army is amassed to come to the aid of the mountain.The thing about Redwall novels that makes them great it the camaraderie.
Each novel ends with an invitation to come back to the world of Redwall and that is why I think so many of us choose to keep coming back.
Some of the characters are Lord Brocktree, Dotti, Lord Stonepaw, Ungatt Trun, King Bucko Bigbones, and a bunch of hares.
All the hares in the story go with Lord Brocktee and help defeat Ungatt Trun.The theme of the book is that no matter what good will prevail.
For example when the mountain was under control of Ungatt Trun all the hares and Lord Stonepaw kept fighting them until Lord Brocktree came and helped defeat them.
The main idea of the story is that the mountain of Salamandstron is being held under the rule of a Badger Lord and then a wildcat comes and takes over the mountain then he is defeated by another Badger Lord.
I heard a lot about the Redwall series, so I found Lord Brocktree at a garage sale, I picked it up.
That it was, although there was little magic, and the big difference with Watership Down is that the Redwall novels are aimed at a younger audience.
It started out nicely, with the badger Lord Brocktree traveling to his ancestoral home, Salamandastron, not knowing that it is besiegde by a horde of vermin.
He is joined by the young haremaid Dotty, on what soon becomes a quest where animal after animal joins Brocktree.
The Tolkien-like songs became so over the top and needless, that I skipped probably 95% of the them.After a month away from reading, I felt recharged enough to take it on again, and, sure enough, was able to finish the book when I stopped reading it as a book about ACTUAL animals and more a story of warring clans of Vikings that take on sigils of the animals Jacques has set forth for the characters.Overall, this book is still a solid read as long as one realises that this childrens' series is exactly that: written for children.
I was OBSESSED with this series when I was in middle school - I read about one of these books per week.
Although there are definitely parts where you can tell beyond a shadow of a doubt that it was written for twelve year olds (deaths are glossed over, the consequences largely ignored, etc.), it was still solid writing.
It's much better than most teen fiction out there.
Definitely worth the read, especially if you're a middle schooler, and even if you're an adult (as long as you recognize this wasn't written to be adult level fiction).
My experience reading Brian Jaques, began with Martin the Warrior, then Redwall, and Mossflower.
This is the thirteenth book in the series, and it still showcases Mr. Jaques storytelling abilities.
The message is simple: treat those you meet with compassion and friendship.
In the end, Good will triumph over Evil.
I know I'm stating this too simply, but that does seem to be the message.
Those who act with cruelty, will meet their end getting what they deserve.
Not for self-serving actions.The series was I believe, originally aimed at a middle-school level, but their are lessons here for all ages.
How flat and formulaic can these books get? I read this long ago, when I was still a very inexperienced reader, and even then I couldn't stand the annoying characters, predictable point-A-to-point-B plot, and draggy story. All the villains are EEEEVIL, or mean, or stupid; all the heroes good and brave (and unintentionally annoying). I think I was about 40 pages from the end when I gave up! And that was the time when DNFing books felt like the Cardinal Sin of Reading to me. Bleh. Skip it.
Well it wasn't my cup of tea. The different dialects of the creatures was confusing. It may be because I don't have a great imagination but it was hard to understand what they were saying. I also didn't like the fighting theme throughtout
I don't love this one as much as the other Redwall books. Dotti's character irritated me too much in middle school aaaand looks like not much has changed.
This is my personal favorite
