https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2815590-serena
with a greek chorus." which as a customer, i would hear and think, "i must read this book." but it doesn't always work.
serena enters the community after her new husband has already established himself there, and has already fathered a child on a local girl.
all is destruction.i know i have said this in a another review somewhere, but what heightens the impact of this book is not only the danger of serena (and her husband ain't no pleasant master, either) but the danger of nature itself.
George and Serena Pemberton are timber barons from Boston who have set up a logging camp in western North Carolina.
Set in 1929 in the early days of the depression, the Pembertons fell trees at the expense of the fledging National Park Service who desire the land for themselves in order to leave a lasting gift for the American people.
Rash also employs a Greek chorus as loggers discuss Serena's bidding, adding to her lore in the logging camp.
I am sure that Serena will not be my last Rash novel.
In the book, for example, it is clear early on that Serena is a dark and powerful force, with a hearty dollop of madness mixed in.
Bradley Cooper's character, Pemberton, seemed a bit harsher in the film than in the book, where he was much more driven by events than he is in this treatment.
Rash was asked, in a 3/24/15 interview by Judith Rosen in Publishers Weekly about his involvement with the film adaptations of Serena and an earlier novel I made a decision early on not to read either screenplay.
“A kind of annihilation, was what Serena called their coupling, and though Pemberton would never have thought to describe it that way, he knew her words had named the thing exactly.”  Bradley Cooper and Jennifer Lawrence play the power couple in the 2015 movie.George Pemberton brought back a wife from Boston. More than a wife, more of a force of nature as dangerous as a witch and as pretty as an angel. He feels stronger with her by his side, and though never a man lacking in confidence, that sel
“A kind of annihilation, was what Serena called their coupling, and though Pemberton would never have thought to describe it that way, he knew her words had named the thing exactly.” 
Before going to Boston to marry Serena, Pemberton fathered a child on a young girl named Rachel, a worker in the timber camp.
“He (George) suspected the workers thought of Serena as beyond gender, the same as they might some phenomenon of nature such as rain or lightning.” Men who cross Pemberton or even men who get in his way start having mishaps.

Because before George met Serena- he had a past in Waynesville- a past that is about to reveal itself in a baby.
More than one person's undoing actually...As Serena and George settle in to their life- people that stand in their way of happiness- start feeling the pressure.
For Serena is a scary foe to have...She may look like an angel...but Serena is far from angelic- sitting on her white horse with an eagle at her side...There are not many people that will get in her way......and who is left standing at the end of it all...and who isn't- may surprise you...I loved this book!!!
I really like strong female heroines and Ron Rash’s Serena delivers on that.
You might not like her, but the novel’s title character is capable, resourceful and ruthlessly ambitious.
As was the case with The Cove (a Ron Rash novel I read in the spring), I was continually impressed with Rash’s writing; his descriptions evoke the land and the people who inhabit it.
In the end, though, Serena is written as a larger than life character in a way that undermines her believability.
Overall, I enjoyed this book and will read more of Ron Rash’s writing!
The heart of the novel is Serena, a deeply flawed, mysterious heroine that bends eagles and men alike to her will.
And there lies the fault of the novel.
When the two main characters are absent, Serena simply seizes to exist.
As a result, much skimming and skipping pages took place in a novel that is not particularly long.I could see the end coming from a distance when (view spoiler)[Pemberton expressed the will to aid Rachel and his illegitimate son (hide spoiler)] so I wasn't that surprised.
Pemberton was much more developed, Serena sometimes came across as one-dimensional.
And I think I'm supposed to admire the main characters, but hate them at the same time since they're fairly heinous?
Pemberton is a tall, strong, ruthless man who shows a "common touch" by doing the work that he asks his employees to do; I think we're supposed to find this modern and admirable.
It feels like the author's fantasy of himself and his perfect mate were masturbated onto the page.The redeeming parts of the book (to me) were the descriptions of the mountains of Virginia.
I'd read a book from Rachel's perspective, with more characters like the widow and the Galloways and more insight into a 1920s logging camp.
Beautiful descriptions and a great storyline. I don't like the title now that I have finished reading it but I think that is sort of the point and I'm not saying I know a better one. Ron Rash did a wonderful job of making the reader hate the characters that were to be hated, and also feel pity for those that were to be pitied.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “You men notice so little. Physical strength is your gender’s sole advantage.” Allow me to introduce you to Serena . . . . .  Aint’ she sweet? Serena has moved to North Carolina to start a new life with her husband, the owner of a timber company . . . .  (Don’t worry – this ain’t a kissing book.) Upon arrival, Serena proves she’s not your average Depression era rich bitch lady of leisure. She wears pants, lives in camp with the axemen
“You men notice so little.
Serena has moved to North Carolina to start a new life with her husband, the owner of a timber company .
(Don’t worry – this ain’t a kissing book.) Upon arrival, Serena proves she’s not your average Depression era rich bitch lady of leisure.
She’s also just a little .
Okay, maybe not a little.
Serena pretty much embraces the idea of being a badass every day and she doesn’t care what or who she has to destroy in order to get what she feels should be hers.
Book two in my quest for a new coffee mug complete!
Wicked good storytelling. Wicked. Good. Love to see the "power hungry female" fleshed out and OWNING it. Truly unlikeable character(s) in actions and deeds. Business partner not agree with your vision? Hunting accident. Disloyalty? Make an example out of him. The courageous and altruistic? SO DEAD. Strip and rape the land, too. Then move onto another country. Repeat. Wow. Just wow. READ IT.
The father wanted to settle matters, and Serena calmly told Pemberton that he should get his knife and do exactly that.
Conservationists wanted the timberland for National Parks, the various interests in the company partnership began to diverge, and the local law didn’t always see eye to eye with Serena and her accomplice in almost all matters, Pemberton.
These were as important to her as knowing the mot juste would be to a Valley girl for social survival.The one thing I didn’t care for in an otherwise great book was how little internal conflict there was once Serena’s relentlessness was established.
There are plenty of other things to like, though.
Serena lacks that truth and depth and dark essence flowing through novels of mentioned above.
Yes, I found Serena rotten to the core but instead of reading about her riding with her eagle, agreed, very scenic but mostly laughable, I wanted to know what made her, what shaped her the way she was.
I only can imagine how the novel could be if only Serena hadn't been so cartoonish, if in her portrait had been less silk and lace and more psychological truth, if she hadn’t felt as provincial lady Makbeth.
I feel a bit shmuckish for not enjoying this book more than I did, and after some serious pondering I have come to the conclusion that I would probably have loved this book if I had a Y chromosome.Seriously.It's not that it isn't entertaining.
I also think it's not that the book is poorly written - because, damn, there are some incredible passages.
We'll test this out when I wrap this book up and give it to my dad for Christmas to see what he thinks of it.
Serena is a slow burn of a novel brimming with darkness and intrigue.It's 1929 in Waynesville, NC and plowing trees for timber is a booming industry.
Serena especially brings an extra layer of female power by leading the men, wearing pants!
In addition to the barren landscape, Serena finds herself in the same predicament as the landscape that she has claimed.
I really enjoyed reading this book, more of a slow burn than a page-turner.
I couldn't wait to see what Serena would do next, the only downside was that the author didn't give us too much in her background, but ultimately it wasn't necessary.
Warning! If you do not like ruthless, greedy and revengeful characters, you will not like the story of timber magnates Serena and George Pemberton as they are the epitome of evil to everyone and everything they touch. Set in 1929 North Carolina, they proceed to strip the land with disregard to the environment, treatment of animals or anyone who gets in their way. Starts out with a bang and has a thrilling ending! Update: March 28, 2015 Holy Crap!.....just watched the movie.....Be prepared for a
Warning! If you do not like ruthless, greedy and revengeful characters, you will not like the story of timber magnates Serena and George Pemberton as they are the epitome of evil to everyone and everything they touch. Set in 1929 North Carolina, they proceed to strip the land with disregard to the environment, treatment of animals or anyone who gets in their way. Starts out with a bang and has a thrilling ending!
  Update: March 28, 2015
Holy Crap!.....just watched the movie.....Be prepared for a completely different, but still shocker of an ending. Liked it better than the book!
Rash paints a vivid picture of a lumber camp and utilizes the sawyers perfectly as the Greek chorus element in the story.
The author also has a deft hand at creating characters - both male and female - even minor actors in the story have the heft of an author who knows the craft.
The coda presented a plausible and fine ending, but I would have enjoyed the book just as much without it.Highly recommended - I will definitely be reading more of Rash's work.
Thanks again to Anthony Vacca for the recommendation.
Probably one of the most evil women characters that I've read about. The thing is you can't look away..you have to see what Serena is going to do next. Set in North Carolina before the Great Smokey Mtns. became a state park. Tells the story of greed and what some people will do to see their means to an end. Wonderful book filled with characters that will stay with you.
I am going straight down the middle on whether I liked it or not!
The writing was beautiful, the background interesting and informative and the story was frequently tense and exciting.
Nothing to like there.
Also I have a history of not enjoying books where bad things happen to animals.
This dates back to Black Beauty, read as a teenager, so it is pretty much a fixed part of my personality now.
By the time I had finished skimming all the animal cruelty in this book I had probably missed a huge chunk of it.So I guess this one was not really for me.
Serena takes place during the Great Depression, where anyone would do anything for a little change in their pockets, even the Pembertons.
I never read of a stronger woman who tames hawks, and does the work of men.
There were a lot of strong women in this novel, and I loved that feature.I liked the historical factor of this book, and how Ron Rash writes the cruelty of the depression, and the work environment.
I thought the actions of Serena were out of character, but at the same time in character.
I developed another Rash. This one took me back to the mountains of North Carolina. However, instead of meeting the good-hearted people of The Cove, I was introduced to some of the most ruthless characters in literature. Serena and George Pemberton have never met a living creature (human, animal, or plant) they do not wish to dominate (or destroy) for their own gain. With an element of suspense, Rash weaves a tale of ambition gone awry.Highly recomended for fans of southern literature, those who like strong female characaters, or those who just like a darn good story.4.5 stars.
Did you ever read the right book at the wrong time?
Such is my Serena.On the heels of my previous read, a forever favourite,The Secret History, still occupying way too many rooms in my head, this one felt barren, almost raw, like no one threw a rug on the floor.
The terrain is relentless, the characters rough and tumble and the story serves up greed, sex, deceit, death by logging, betrayal and murder.I should have loved it, but truth be told that while I recognized what a great story this was, I somehow felt disconnected.
I mean, even the eagle failed to pull me in and I love birds of prey.
Rash doesn't tell you - "this guy is good; this guy is bad" - you judge by their actions what the characters hold inside.Five stars and on my favorites shelf, I've read this three times now and seriously, after writing up this review, I feel like reading it again.STOP READING HERE - SPOILER AHEADI found this abstract of Lesleigh Jones' and now want to go back to read the Greek story of Clytemnestra.
Maestro Marin Allsop tells us Carmina Burana is “all about fate and fortune and how that impacts our lives, and also the hushed quality after this enormous opening.
She was accompanied by her father, who carried beneath his shabby frock coat a bowie knife sharpened with great attentiveness earlier that morning so it would plunge as deep as possible into Pemberton’s heart.”And the chorus rises in a wave of sound as the tide of fate and fortune pulls the reader into this Shakespearean tragedy.
Serena and George Pemberton, newly wed after a blink-of-an-eye courtship, arrive in the backwoods of North Carolina to claim their fortune in timber.
I'm glad so many people loved this book because I certainly didn't.
It's not hard to guess how the story will unfold but by page 185 hardly anything has happened (except my loathing for this book).
For a Southern book, descriptions of the landscape and terrain are pathetic.
Unfortunately, it reminds me of a story my daughter wrote in junior high.
The entire thing was pages of "she went there and did that--then she went (wherever) and did that" etc.
No doubt the book gets better (my daughter's writing did in high school)but I'm about half way through and I can't take anymore.
I was very excited to read this once I read the plot and saw that it had a great cast attached to it for the film adaptation.
I kept thinking 'I'm sure something exciting happens and it gets better!' Alas, it did not.
Before he met Serena, George Pemberton was apparently a bit of a ladies man, however he was apparently completely enamored with Serena from the moment he met her - but the why is never explained.
I think the movie adaptation can still be good, they can elaborate on a lot of the plot points that were never explained.
I finished this book quite a while ago but as always, life intervened and there was much internet-free gallivanting and acres of sand between my toes and billions of hours of driving last week, all of which conspired to prevent me from writing this review.
And then there are people like Serena – who go up against adversity and seem to become honed by it.
Serena is a girl who survived a deadly flu epidemic, burned her childhood home to the ground, braved the wildernesses of Colorado, found herself a suitably powerful lumber baron to marry, and set her sights on expansion.
The story begins with lumber baron George Pemberton arriving home with his mysterious new bride, Serena.
It quickly becomes apparent that neither of these characters will be winning any humanitarian awards - ever!
The lovely Mrs. Pemberton is a different kind of evil.
It is only her one scheme - the one motivated by jealousy instead of greed, that causes her world to begin to unravel.There are some sympathetic characters.
The local sheriff who becomes suspicious of the Pembertons is an admirable chap.
All of the characters in the book were "just doing their jobs." Some followed their consciences and others had no conscience at all.
This Shakespearean Tragedy-cum-Southern Gothic-cum-Literary Thriller has some truly great moments.
Great MomentsThe opening chapter sets the uneasy tone of the novel perfectly and the strong closing chapter with Pemberton going on the mountain lion hunt will stick with me for a long time.
Another moment I strongly "felt" featured Rachel struggling to get her sick baby into town and running into the pack of wild dogs at the bridge.
I actually dreamed extra scenes into the novel based on this episode.Clunky MomentsThe entire Komodo Dragon bit was over-the-top and should never have been included.
