https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12065457-the-madonna-of-the-sleeping-cars
When looking over at Amazon to find books that were made into movies I have seen over the years, I was introduced to Maurice Dekobra's The Madonna of the Sleeping Cars.
Furst had touted Dekobra's novel & it being a best seller of it time (1925), it sound like an interesting read.
What I find enthralling is reading a book about Germany's Weimar Republic (1919-1933) pre Adolf Hitler & Stalin's Russia (Communist Russia) through the eyes of someone living in those times.
Publicada originalmente en 1925, y después de convertirse en un imbatible bestseller que reportó a su autor popularidad a nivel internacional, la desternillante obra de Maurice Dekobra (París, 1885) ha permanecido agazapada en un discreto tercer o cuarto plano hasta que Impedimenta ha decidido, con muy buen criterio, rescatarla del olvido.La Madona de los coches cama es, sin ningún género de duda, una de las novelas más hilarantes y descaradas que he leído en mucho tiempo.
La frivolidad recalcitrante de Lady Wynham, así como el romanticismo indiscriminado de Séliman, vertebran la vertiente cómica de una novela que no da la espalda a los episodios más truculentos del período de entreguerras.
Like James Bond, he loves women and does well with them; unlike James Bond, he is a human with feelings and also respects women as people more than he desires bedding them.
Given the current political news, it was very peculiar to read a book set in the mid 1920s having a plot centered on Russia, corruption, and oil, and even more peculiar to be rooting for the obscenely rich noble main characters.
The book is good read, that was equal parts frothy and dark.
I enjoyed it.Also, the main author changed his name to DeKobra because he really liked cobras, so that's pretty badass.

Un des plus beaux succès littéraires des années 20. On pense à Nancy Mitford ou Evelyn Waugh pour le rythme endiablé de l'intrigue, les personnages extravagants, la satire et la verve ironique mais aussi à la grande tradition du roman d'aventure, avec rebondissements et révélations à la clef. Un roman fin, merveilleusement bien écrit et qui se trouve être aussi un divertissement de premier choix. :)
At worst, I thought it might simply be a frivolous pastime, but it was curiosity that was foremost in my mind.There are four main characters: the aristocratic Westerners Lady Diana Wynham and her secretary Prince Gerard Séliman (who is the “author” of the book — and so it represents his take on the characters and their attitudes) and the Russian Communists Leonid Varichkine and his partner Irina Mouravieff.
This is the first book I've read in the Neversink series where I thought, upon finishing it, "Why?" Why republish this, why think it deserves a broader modern audience?
This might have been relatively intriguing in its time (the free-loving heroine, the jabs at Communism, the relatively open acceptance of pre, post, and intra-marital sex) but, unlike the books by Keun and Horvath, even the Strugatskys, that Melville House has previously published as part of this imprint, this little picaresque piece holds nothing but historical value.
I can't recommend it to anyone but completist collectors of this series.
Overwrought and antiquated, with Soviets as cartoon villains.
I had only recently become aware of Melville House and was quite intrigued by the design of these books and the mission of the Neversink series, to make available titles which had been under-appreciated or unfortunately forgotten.
After Midnight for sure, people in an apartment fearful of the Nazis bursting in upon them, and the Right Way to do Wrong, Houdini just riffing for about 200 pages.
Somewhere along the way I must have sold off several, at current I only count five Neversink volumes on my shelves.
Many goodreads reviewers seemed mystified as to why Melville House would republish a book that amounts to such a light entertainment.
Ligero y entretenido, recrea a la perfección la alta sociedad británica-europea tras la Primera Guerra Mundial. Mucho glamour y encanto, y unos revolucionarios rusos de traca. No me ha parecido gran cosa el argumento, pero reconozco que está bien escrita y se lee muy fácil.
The author seems to make a point of contrasting him with the women he encounters, more mighty, knowledgeable and daring than him, although I felt the real finale was achieved by another man, one assumed incompetent up till that point, by shooting the icy Irina Mouravieff dead, the only real action we get.
I personally felt let down by the novel's ending, which was meant to be mysterious and free-will-y, but only turned out to be another wealth/man-seeking expedition.
a fun glimpse at the culture and society hi-jinks of the european upper class in the mid 1920s.
while the writing and the characters seemed a bit overblown and sensational, there is also a wonderful light-hearted escapism in reading descriptions of such extreme extravagance as well as the growing climate of tension, apprehension and excitement between the capitalist west and the strange echelons of the post-lenin soviet union.
the characterizations are mostly topical, but the atmosphere of eroticism personified in lady diana and underlying the staunch social mores of that time is kind of a fascinating and exotic read now.
I had a bit of trouble deciding how to rate this; there were things I liked a lot about it, and things that very much annoyed me.
The style is florid, sometimes to the point of seeming like parody, and while reviews have commented on the way that Dekobra keeps the tone light, even in the more harrowing scenes, I found that juxtaposition jarring rather than charming.
I also found the character of Lady Diana annoying much of the time.
All that said, at bottom it is quite a good spy-ish (not actually about espionage, per se) adventure story, and very firmly rooted in the inter-war period at the birth of the Soviet Union.
There's a fine flavor to the sentences, especially the dialogue, as these characters talk as no real human can possibly ever have done: "Will you tell her for me that any of the kind of presents that Artaxerxes might offer would leave me cold, and that I'll countersign the papers for her concession when the rising sun surprises her in my arms."Really a great translation.From the exuberant dialogue to the outlandish characters to the world-traveling plot, the author is just having a big old time."...most human beings, whose souls are leopard skins, spotted with unconfessed vices...""As I filled the pores of my toast with fresh butter..."
'Charming' seems to be a word often used in reviews of The Madonna of the Sleeping Cars, and I can only concur.
There were some pointed barbs aimed at both English upper-class society and the Russian communist regime, but still I felt like I was skating across the surface, admiring the pretty bubbles and not being drawn in.
This may have had something to do with my expectations (after all  the blurb on my copy does describe it as a 'delightful romp'), as well as the unflappableness of the narrator and the elegant prose.
Such fun to read.
Published in 1927 and out of print for 50 years it's spy novel set after the Russian Revolution.
The main character is beautiful and independent Lady Diana Wynham.
Learning she is facing financial ruin she asks her secretary Prince Gerard Seliman to go deal with the Soviets to gain control of the oil wells confiscated by the new regime.
In his attempt to save her wealth Gerard crosses a very sadistic representative of the new secret police, lovely lady spies and possible redemption of his past.
This book was really amazing. Apparently it was a bestseller when it was published and it was just brought back into print. I got the original copy through ILL and it literally fell apart while I was reading it. It is a perfect view into the world of 1925, with women locked into roles and trying to find a way out and the first inklings of what communism was doing to Russia (seriously, how prescient). All with some really interestingly descriptive passages and an out of this world vocabulary. Perfect escapism without mindlessness.
Glad I bought this at this year's Brooklyn Book Festival. It's one of the earliest international spy novels and it caused a huge sensation when it was published in 1925. Lady Diana Wyndham is the ironically-named Madonna and an early manic pixie dream girl. I didn't find her an annoying mpdg, though, and mostly I sat back and enjoyed the cross-continental European travel. Now I want to dip further into the spy genre.
Published first in 1925, this book is a precursor to the James Bond international man of mystery type of book. I didn't really care about the plot (Parisians, rich people, communists, yachts, etc) but I really loved the way Dekobra describes things. His narrator deceives things so wittily that this book feels MUCH more modern than it is. So three stars.
Sort of a Murder on the Orient Express via P.G. Wodehouse... Reads very much of its time (1927), and I love the quote from the Times that's printed on the first page: "Railway travelers - appropriately enough - seem constantly to be reading it." New York Times, 1929
Ce roman se lit presque d'une traite, j'étais vite plongée dans l'intrigue et le moins qu'on puisse dire c'est qu' on voyage beaucoup entre les hôtels particuliers de Londres, Berlin et les prisons russes du CaucaSe, impossible de s'ennuyer avec le prince Seliman et lady Diana Wyndham! Merci Emjy!
I enjoyed it -- witty and charmingly written, but not overwrought, as some spy novels are. Trenchant observations about the philosophy and results (mostly results) of the recent Russian Revolution. First published in 1927.
Written in 1927 and recently reprinted - a story of intrigue involving a British woman, her French prince assistant and their involvement with a Russian Communist man and his very jealous lover who is the evil one in the book. An interesting time piece, but not great.
Some girls some hats and hitler
http://bibliotheca.skynetblogs.be/pos...
"They say that to go away is to die a little, but it's my theory that to die would be to go too far and that to travel is simply to change one's ideas."
Prince Gerard Séliman is a little bit James Bond and a lot bit Jacques Clouseau.
Interesting largely because of - unlikely - plot involving Russian Communist spies written in 1925. Amusing.
Charming, though slightly dated, tale of espionage, love, gallantry and human foibles. Apparently, immensely popular in its day but still worthy of a quick, light read.
This book was a slow burn-it didn't really pick-up into two-thirds of the way in. An interesting story that takes you through some unique lands and adventures. The afterword is well worth the read.
