https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1076260.A_Miscellany_of_Men
Reading Chesterton is a jerky experience, like being stuck on a subway train that keeps lurching forward and shuddering to a stop for no apparent reason (yes, Toronto Transit Commission, you’re still on my shit list).
In short, I don’t even know if there’s a name for his particular ideological orientation, apart from ‘screwy’.Although Chesterton exasperates me to no end, he’s one of the few writers I keep going back to year after year because, for all his claptrap, he handled words with such casual aplomb.
A Miscellany of Men was published in 1912 and contains some thirty or forty short essays that range in quality from good to magnificent -- particularly in "The Mystagogue," in which he says everything there is to say about criticism.At the same time I read this book, I have been reading the music criticism of Aldous Huxley, which he wrote for The Weekly Westminster Gazette during the 1920s.
But because the man is trying to express it, it is most probable that there is something in it, after all.
Say what you will say about the ideas of the Catholic faith that, to a 21st century socially liberal reader, will seem extremely outdated and not "abnormal" at all when Chesterton defends them as "normal" things, Chesterton himself, and his writing, are always vividly refreshing.
He writes controvertially, as he always does, about things that were "right and proper" in his time, and seem right and proper in our time as well.
In fact they actually drew me in and caused me to think about the nature of feminism and its goals.
And no argument can be bad that promotes a critical think.
K. Chesterton, it's just that...(fill in the blank.)The guy was entertaining and he makes you think, a man with a nimble mind and clever way with an aphorism, ideal in fact for writing opinion pieces in a newspaper, where these three dozen observations probably first appeared.
But sometimes he leaves me shaking my head.Take for example his take on women in politics from an article called 'The Suffragist'.
Chesterton, the Suffragist, and the wet brolly - that would have made an excellent Edwardian tableau!
More broad than some of the other collections of this type, this book still has a cohesive feel as the themes of Family, Liberty, and Common Sense permeate the work.
Especially relevant to our current political environment are Chesterton's comments on political choice, " For the powerful class will choose two courses of action, both of them safe for itself, and then give the democracy the gratification of taking one course or the other.
The lord will take two things so much alike that he would not mind choosing from them blindfold - and then for a great jest he will allow the slaves to choose."
So it was a little dated in style and some of the sentiments expressed would have Chesterton labelled today as a racist, misogynist, jingoist and much worse, the prescient tone and clarity of expression make Chesterton a writer with timeless relevance.
This collection of essays is particularly good at illustrating how the best and worst of human behaviours remain constant down through generations.
Chesterton remains positive and hopeful, with an amusing touch, but he manages to avoid sarcasm and scorn.
His wisdom and humility are invaluable but you do have to acknowledge and forgive the social thought errors of his time.
Another excellent one from Chesterton, the apostle of common sense. This one is a great reflection of some of his journalism from his early career. Not only could I see the development of some of his key ideas, such as Distributism, but also I learned about the history of the early twentieth century through the lens of Chesterton's writing. Definitely recommend.
Decent Chesterton -- though by no means his best. Vast selection of topics, good sense of humor, keen insight. A few unfair rants against businessmen that were a little out of place, especially for a man who's overwhelmingly romantic about everything else; but I guess that sort of thing was handled perfectly by Ayn Rand, so I'll give Chesty a pass.
Terrific compilation of essays and articles by GK Chesterton written for an English paper between 1930 and 1934. Insightful, wise, witty, thoughtful, and funny... Chesterton is at his best in essays of socio/political/spiritual commentary.
It's easy to tell that in most of these essays he's talking about political concerns of the time. Not being as conversant with said issues some of it was hard to digest. But some of the essays were lovely-- and he makes some good points about introspection, freedom, and nature.
Highly interesting
