https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/414402.Mortal_Stakes
Oh, and he's a real wiseass too.In addition to having a manly hero, the book is all about sports: baseball to be precise, America's “national pastime” (at least that's how we thought of it in 1975).
And then there are the other two women in the novel, Linda Rabb the star pitcher's wife and Patricia Utley the high-class madam.
Both have their own moral choices, and the decisions they make—and their consequences—result in a few of the most vivid and moving scenes I have encountered in any detective novel.This novel is so good even people who don't like mysteries should read it.
Floating this one to marvel in the glory and wonder of what a difference a few years can make to a sports franchise.Spenser is hired by an executive of the Boston Red Sox to investigate a rumor that their star pitcher, Marty Rabb, has been throwing some games, and the executive makes it clear from the start that if Rabb is guilty he’ll be out of baseball permanently.
But I’m a Royals fan so what do I know about baseball?Posing as a writer, Spenser meets and likes both Rabb and his wife Linda, but when he starts checking out their history he finds a secret that made Rabb a blackmail target.
Parker was really starting to get into a rhythm with these Spenser stories.
Spenser is shown sorting out the clues he gathers and going through a methodical process to get to the bottom of it all.
It was almost like Spenser was drawn to them for no apparent reason other than getting the show on the road.
Hell, the major reason I started reading these was because they take place in my home city (well, I lived 45 minutes outside of it, but it's still "my city" in a way.) Anytime a writer wants to use Fenway Pahk as a setting is wicked pissah with me!
And, yet, they are still the same characters I met in the later novels; the difference now being that I am truly meeting them at an early stage of their literary lives.
You see, what it comes down to is this: Spenser is one of my favorite literary characters; Parker is one of my favorite novelists, and to see them in their infancy was incredible.
But unlike the later novels, Parker takes his time, allows for growth, shows a side of Spenser I'd never seen before.
If you only know Spenser through Parker's later novels, take the time to go back and discover Spenser's roots.
A Red Sox bigwig hires Spenser to investigate a pitcher who he suspects has been intentionally blowing games.
Spenser's investigations take him into a web of deceit and blackmail and the pitcher's wife is caught in the middle...Spenser is really growing on me.
In this one, I think Parker started hitting on all cylinders.Mortal Stakes is a tale of a small town girl in Boston being punished for the sins of her past and her husband, Red Sox pitcher Marty Rabb, is being blackmailed by gamblers.
If you can use four or five words to make me feel, seamlessly, exactly what you’re talking about, then consider me yours, my friend.Because Robert Parker has written almost 70 books, because we currently have no less than three different titles under his name on the FT table, it’s been easy for me to dismiss him as a writer over the years.
Spenser: “’I would like you to stop blackmailing the Rabbs.’ ‘And if ah was blackmailing them, and ah stopped, what would ah get out of that?’‘Well, I’d be grateful.’”“'Lester,' I said, 'you can’t handle Doerr.
And, when he’s hanging around the world of baseball, I like it even more.Unlike most mysteries, Mortal Stakes doesn’t involve murder.
And, if I happen to end up ruminating about my one and only experience of watching a game in Fenway Park and feel like I’ve walked across the same plaza in Boston more than once (Copley Plaza, in front of Trinity Church) where Spenser takes one of his walks, that’s all the better.I started reading books later in the Spenser series and recently had a treasure-trove of early Spenser paperbacks put into my hands.
Boston, the Red Sox, codes of honor and a couple of terrifying confrontations. Great stuff. I can't possibly top Bill Kerwin's review so here's a link.
Spencer and baseball, one of his first loves.
I always enjoy early Spencer, with it's rich description and fleshed out mystery.
Nothing says period piece quite like "paisley jacket." He goes undercover at the Boston Red Sox, travels to a small town in Illinois, then on to New York in his background investigation.
I enjoyed his sense of humor that no one else appreciates, and all the details that get pared down in later books.
It's a sticky mystery with a mix of real-world not-quite perfect and emotionally satisfying revenge resolutions.
And don't worry, the baseball overload only lasts a chapter or two.What we do have is a broadening and deepening of Spenser as man and hero.
In this book, more than previously, much is developed of The Code that all true heroes need.
Parker handles this well, and the ending of the book has a truth and personal honesty that I loved.
As another reviewer said, there are four strong women in this book, and this reflects very well on Parker.
I am truly pleased to see Parker's loving and mature Susan, a thoughtful and honest partner to Spenser, well deserved by him and by us.
How Spenser goes about his task leads to the clearest exposition of his code of honor (chapter 29), as explained to Susan Silverman for the first time.
NOTE: After the code has been explained time and again, especially in the later books in the series, it gets old, but it's significant at this stage of the series, especially since Spenser violates it in cold blood.
As a bonus, Martin Quirk more or less states his position about Spenser clearly in this book.
Spenser is pretty physical early in the series, as though not quite under self-control.
I haven't read #2 yet and I hate reading them out of order but the only thing I think I missed from #2 was the introduction to Susan Silverman who Spenser spends some time with, along with Brenda Loring who he met in the first book.In this novel Spenser is hired by the Boston Red Sox to investigate as to whether or not their star pitcher, Marty Rabb, is throwing games.
The book was written in 1975 when the Red Sox lost the World Series to the Reds.
This didn't factor into the story at all.So you have baseball, bribes, an ego maniac announcer, prostitution and the mob involved.
And don't worry, the baseball overload only lasts a chapter or two.What we do have is a broadening and deepening of Spenser as man and hero.
In this book, more than previously, much is developed of The Code that all true heroes need.
Parker handles this well, and the ending of the book has a truth and personal honesty that I loved.
As another reviewer said, there are four strong women in this book, and this reflects very well on Parker.
so clearly now for Spenser, we see The Code: I should be gone.
Have you ever noticed how many ticky left eyelids there are in Parker's books?
Parker wants to preserve his characters honor by having him brood for several chapters about what he did and whether or not it was ethical or right-- it just did not seem to fit the character to me.Here's my minor problem-- Maybe this relates to my recent weight loss related surgical procedure-- but Parker spends way too much time describing the food Spenser eats..
There is a sex scene more prolonged and explicit than would sit comfortably in later novels.Then there are the characters Spenser encounters when he is commissioned to investigate the possibility that something is amiss inside the Red Sox baseball club.
Spenser without Hawk is only half the wise-cracking tough but sensitive private eye he will become.Interestingly, at the end there is a signpost towards the subsequent books when Spenser and Susan conduct a long discussion about the principles by which he lives.There are better - - much better - Spenser tales to follow but Mortal Stakes is not negliginle.
This caper takes Spenser to New York City and back to Boston.
It also takes him to depths of violence he hasn't encountered before.I continue to love this series.
Spenser is such a likable character.
Parker's character development is just outstanding.
Even a character like Violet the pimp, who only appears for a very short stint in the novel, leaves a lasting impression on the reader.I enjoy the variety and uniqueness Parker uses when developing his plots.
In this novel, a character even says to Spenser, "you know more shit that doesn't make you money than any person I know." I love it!
I'd never read Parker, but the fact that the story for "Mortal Stakes" involves a Red Sox pitcher and his wife got my attention, having done my own Red Sox book, "One Day at Fenway." I found this one a delight.
Spenser could maybe hit for a little higher average with his sense of humor, but that's kind of the point, isn't it?
Makes him human.
I also like the steady presence of books in the story, from Spenser making a "book joke" at what point involving Henry James to this: "You spend too much time reading, Spenser.
Another great effort, same funny stuff and it is tied around baseball.
so good, dammit, so good, i love his attention to detail, i love spenser's various foibles, i love his humanity, i love his sluttiness, i love these books godammit...
The description of streets and eating establishments places readers into Spenser's world.
He's a strong character, probably set in his ways, and would not be willing to compromise on those things most important to him: his eating habits, his independence and solitary living, and his desire to bring justice to his corner or the world.This story was interesting to me because of Parker's (via Spenser) take on the game of baseball, specifically as played by the Boston Red Sox. Yet, even amongst the traditional and hallowed halls of major league ball, there exists liars, cheats, and swindlers ...
I certainly will be picking up the next installment of the series, if just to know that Spenser survived and is back on another case of injustice against the "little people."Thanks, Mr. Parker for another great read.
Natürlich soll Spenser verdeckt recherchieren, denn schon wenn herauskommt, dass die Frage im Raum steht, ist die Karriere von Marty Rabb gelaufen.
Und so wird Spenser diesmal Schriftsteller, der sich unter Spieler, Journalisten und sonstiges Mannschaftsanhängels mischt, um neugierige Fragen zu stellen – natürlich nur um ein Buch über die Red Sox zu schreiben.Einer wie der andere?Die Spenser Reihe umfasst ja fast 40 Teile und ich habe bisher nur einen Bruchteil gelesen.
Es macht richtig Spaß, die zu lesen.Was war schlecht?Einzig der erste Schreck ist mir in Erinnerung, als ich die ersten Seiten gelesen habe und dachte, oh je – Baseball!
As Spenser investigates (he poses as an author writing a book about baseball), he discovers a blackmail plot involving pimps, a high class madam and a loan shark ...
Marty's wife, Linda, had lived a secret life before she'd married him.This is the third in the Spenser series (there are currently 46, with the last six written by Ace Atkins after Parker's death in 2010).
This book was written and is set in the 1970s so is dated with some of its references and lingo.
The wisecracks are becoming more natural, and the character seems more likable; he shows himself to be a good, likable, mature guy who is not perfect, but realizes when he does something that is not 100% right.
He might beat up or even kill a bad guy, but he doesn't feel good about it.
He also believes in helping people, even if it means losing money.
He's willing to quit a case and give up the money if he can't do what he believes is right.This one should interest the baseball fans out there, although it will also interest those who couldn't care less about the sport.
The mystery was good, with Spenser asked to investigate a pitcher (Marty Rabb) on the Red Sox to see if he was on the take.
As Spenser gets involved with the Rabb family, he uncovers their secret and wants to help them get through it.
Here is where we learn more about Spenser's personality and his desire to help people, no matter what.
We've met Susan, and she provides some much-needed advice, although we don't have the familiarity with her that we'll have later in the series.
And we haven't yet met Hawk, so there seems to be something missing for those who know the series well.
ConsistentGood story with humor. Spenser is progressing as a character. Look forward to when hawk comes on board. Worth reading.
Since there are like a million books in this series, I figured he was going to make it.
Book 3 of the Spenser series in classic Parker mode. Spenser is hired to investigate fixing games by the Bosox pitcher and ends up resolving the issue for the team and the pitcher's family.
This is only the 3rd Spenser novel; he’s still in his formative stages. Knowing the character so well from later works, it’s interesting to see him still discovering who he is and what he’s willing to do in the interests of justice as he understands it. Well worth reading.
Both carry a reputation of being quick with their guns when things don’t go their way, but Parker unobtrusively to injects humor into the scene when Spenser, unlike others in such a tight situation, openly challenges them.
It is one of those times that leaves readers chuckling.This novel tells us more about Spenser himself, the man Parker has created, a guy who makes whipped cream biscuits, chooses to eat zucchini squash and prepares a batch of spareribs while he creates a plan to deal with his opponents.
Maybe the "Spenser pub crawl" could become a post-Parade institution on St. Paddy's Day, like Chicago's "Death March" on the South Side.Parker begins to wander into po-mo detective territory here; the case doesn't wrap up as neatly and tidily as one thinks, and the character begins to wax metaphysical at the end about his code of ethics and how he can live with things that force him to choose between following that code and self-preservation (it's Susan who helps him articulate that code to himself, btw).Again, I have the same problem here as with the first, the need to describe characters, even the insignificant ones, by race.
Beyond the counter ....." If you can buy any cop being allowed to wear platform shoes on the job, note immediately after the description of the secretary:  "The woman at the desk was lean and young, not long out of Vassar or Bennington.
