https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28815.Influence
Buy it now if you haven’t read it.Table of contents:1 Weapons of Influence2 Reciprocation: The Old Give and Take…and Take3 Commitment and Consistency: Hobgoblins of the Mind4 Social Proof: Truths Are Us5 Liking: The Friendly Thief6 Authority: Directed Deference7 Scarcity: The Rule of the FewNotes:Below are my key takeaways and some interesting points, but I’m telling you.
* People like and believe in commitment because their image and reputation is on the line (ie the Chinese concentration camp example above).
* The power of social proof, or the idea that if others do it it’s good.

I don't understand why so many people rated this book so highly.--It panders to the audience by using overly simple language and repeating the same idea 5 times to make sure that the reader really understood.
Our choices are influenced by the people around us.
There are countless examples of one's choices being swayed by his or her peers." Thanks, I got it the first time.--The first and second "weapons of influence" were interesting and thought-provoking.
(Also, cassette tapes were out of style by the time I was in high school...)--His choice phrase for people who consciously used these "weapons of influence" were ...
Six "weapons of influence"1)Reciprocation - People tend to return a favor.
In his conferences, he often uses the example of Ethiopia providing thousands of dollars in humanitarian aid to Mexico just after the 1985 earthquake, despite Ethiopia suffering from a crippling famine and civil war at the time.
At one point this experiment aborted, as so many people were looking up that they stopped traffic.
Cialdini cites incidents, such as the Milgram experiments in the early 1960s and the My Lai massacre.
People were more likely to buy if they liked the person selling it to them.
Some of the many biases favoring more attractive people are discussed.
I put this book under "dangerous knowledge." Cialdini, still a top consultant in this field, has a tiny disclaimer at the end of the book saying how he's aware that this knowledge could be misused, but doesn't go much further. I see this stuff abused all the time, to spin democracies to go to war, to sell us products and services we don't really need and much, much more. I've been wanting to start an ethics institute around this topic. Interested? Write me!
Required reading for all marketing professionals. The book details the most common approaches to influencing the decisions of others, backed up by the authors time spent infiltrating direct marketing companies and the like. Offers handy hints on how to spot when you're being manipulated and how to handle it.A very enjoyable read, should leave you much more aware of how you're being played next time you're in the market for a used car.
Not a runaway train of rapturousness like 1776, Moneyball, or Outliers but like Anna Karenina it seems to encompass all of life and address all of life's important issues. I would recommend this to anyone and will definitely listen to it again.I tired one of his techniques on a colleague I had been chasing for week and it worked like a charm within an hour, so 1 for 1.
Cialdini repeatedly uses the term ‘click, whirr’, which explains our behavior patterns when we encounter a situation for which we have a ‘programmed reaction’.
This is due to the contrast principle, which is that on spending a high amount of money on an expensive thing we are likely to spend money on something less expensive than the initial product but which is still expensive enough if compared to its alternatives in the market.
Each chapter explaining, through case studies, social experiments, research and psychological analysis of human behavior, different methods and tact with which we are convinced to do or not do a certain thing.
كل شيء غال هو جيد/ جمال امراة عادية يبدو باهثا امام عارضات الازياء ومعايير الجمال الذي يتم ترويجه في الاعلام/ البائع يجب ان يعرض على المشتري السلعة الغالية اولا ثم السلع الرخيصة لانه في حالة العكس ستبدو السلعة الاعلى ثمنا جد جد جد غالية-قانون التنازل.
الانسان لكي يظهر امام الاخرين بمنظر السوي الذي يمكن الوثوق به يجب ان يبقى ثابتا على مبادئه وافكاره وقراراته لكي لا يظهر بمظهر المشتت المجنون المزاجي المتقلب.
وهذا يستخدمه المستغل عندما يجعلك تظن ان هناك رواجا واقبالا على منتوج ما-قانون المحبة.
هذا يجعل المستغلين يستخدمون اشخاص شكلهم جميل لترويج سلعهم واشخاص يشبهون المستهلك المستهدف-قانون السلطة.
For example, saying offers are available for a "limited time only" encourages sales.Liking - People are easily persuaded by other people that they like.
Thus, the pervasiveness of free samples in marketing.Commitment and Consistency - If people agree to make a commitment toward a goal or idea, they are more likely to honor that commitment.
For example, in car sales, suddenly raising the price at the last moment works because the buyer has already decided to buy.Authority - People will tend to obey authority figures, even if they are asked to perform objectionable acts.
it turned out to be an instructive read.The author offered six principles of influence, i.e. getting people to comply or say yes: reciprocation, scarcity, authority, consensus, commitment and liking.
Also the six principles are no way exhaustive in the arts of influencing.And yet this was a nice little framework, and to me, there would have certainly been less fun ways to pass time than listening to this book.
رغم أن الكتاب في مجال التأثير وإغراء الناس( وليس إقناعهم) إلا أنه يعتبر مرجع جيد في مجال علم النفس الاجتماعي. أسلوبه جميل وواضح وأمثلته متنوعة حية مشاهدة. وأما تلك التي من عالم الأسماك والمخلوقات البرية فممتعة :-)أظن أن المهتمين بعلم النفس الاجتماعي لن يجدوا فيه جديدا ولكن ترتيبا لبعض الأفكار. اللهم إلا أن يكونوا ابتدءوا به
One, for example, is the mark of authority -- people are more likely to follow directions and suggestions given by someone with a title (Dr., Judge) than otherwise.
The same applies to suggestions given by people who dress as if they are in the successful upper-class, or who are acknowledged authorities in some field (it doesn't have to be the one under discussion).
What makes the book interesting (besides the highly useful listing of techniques and defenses) is the additional research -- including the surveys showing that people *are* in fact completely unaware that they're doing it.
كتاب جيد جدا وغير سطحيّ.يعيبه بعض التطويلذو القعدة - 1439
What made me about apoplectic is that his fifth edition continues his inaccurate presentation of the Catherine Genovese myth despite that it has been widely discredited.It's kind of disappointing.
I'd recommend it to people as being worth reading but I strongly wish it were more academically rigorous.
Perhaps he's just as much of a chump when it comes to ideas as he says he is when it comes to complying with the requests of other people.By the last couple of chapters I couldn't stand it anymore.
The fifth edition, with its extensive editing, shouldn't be this sloppy.
As a reader, you may feel that you already know some of these tricks of the trade, but then author brings out specific edge cases where a particular influence approach may fail because you just are trying to blindly apply the technique without understanding those edge cases.
A must-read book for anyone looking to come across as a person who gets the buy-ins she or he wants.
Obviously, a mere reading of this book won't make you a master.
But taking specific notes and applying them in your real life is what matters.
тия дето не са прости) хора рядко забелязват обаче е, че и те самите често не мислят много.
Това е поради устройството на мозъка ни и начина, по който е организирана работата му - в много ситуации той предлага автоматични, бързи реакции и решения, вместо бавни, сложни и обмислени.
Политици, търговци и бизнесмени може да не са наясно с невробиологията и невропсихологията на човешкия мозък, но от хиляди години намират и използват техники, с които да се възползват от "автоматичния" му режим за да убедят притежателите му да направят каквото те желаят.
И как да почнем да мислим или поне да се опитаме (щото инстинктите не са в главата ни от хиляди години случайно).
You could say that it is even better if the person fallaciously believes they do know themselves and are confident in that understanding, these are even more gullible than the naiveté.
Robert Cialdini dissects all the different tactics that marketers have known for years on how to get people to do things they initially had no desire for.
The author's impetus for even conducting this study a sincere desire to understand himself better because of how many times he had been duped, sold, tricked, conned and convinced into purchasing/doing things against his true wishes.
This book again is an evidence of how easily men can manipulate each other, highly recommended for entrepreneurs and influencers.
With the sophisticated mental apparatus we have used to build world eminence as a species, we have created an environment so complex, fast-paced, and information-laden that we must increasingly deal with it in the fashion of the animals we long ago transcended.Another fascinating book, this time provided by the "Influence Without Authority" class I took through Deere back in April.An overarching idea of the book is that people don't always use all the available information to make a decision - somtimes they use shortcuts.
Because by signing the petition, people "saw" themselves more as the type of person who would take action for public causes like traffic safety.The Chinese used simple tricks on prisoners.
I have read a fair amount of literature about psychology, group dynamics and social influence - mostly from various little articles and blogs in the net, so although I knew many of the topics covered in the book, I am pleasantly surprised that I didn't know most of it.
This book pretty much covers all the popular studies done on the human psyche and far from being an academic paper, brings the Psychology of Persuasion to the masses in a well articulated, well referenced, book.I especially liked how the book used said studies in how it affects daily, and non-daily lives.
Та хүсээгүй эсвэл төлөвлөөгүй худалдан авалт хийх бүртээ, бусдын ятгалаганд орох болгондоо яаж яваад "за" эсвэл "тэгье" гэж хэлэхэд хүрснээ гайхдаг бол энэ номыг санал болгоё.
Бусдаар хүссэнээ хийлгүүлэх, бусдыг өөрийн талд эргүүлэх маш олон арга байдгаас хамгийн ихээр хэрэглэгддэг хэдийг нь тайлбарлан өгүүлсэн.
1. Reciprocity буюу Аяганы хариу өдөртөө зарчимИх бага нь хамаагүй ч та эхлээд өгчихвөл дараа нь өөр том зүйлийг авахад илүү төхөмтэй болно гэсэн үг.
За тэгэхээр би гэдэг хүн өдөр тутамд хэн нэгний ятгалганд автан өөрийн хүсээгүй зүйлдээ зөвшөөрөхөд хүрдэг юм байна.
Харин одоо бол уншсан мэдлэгтээ тулгуурлан илүү ухаалаг, бодолтой шийдвэр гаргах болно оо.
Их хэрэгтэй ном байна.

اليوم انتهيت من قراءة هذا الكتاب الرائع، الذي يساعدنا في تفسير أمور كثيره نستسلم لها بدون ان ندري ، فالكتاب يشرح بشكل مفصل كيف يستسلم المستهلك لخدع البائع ، ليس هذا فقط الكتاب يتناول هذه الأمور من ناحيه نفسيه كيف ننجر الى ألاعيب التجار الكتاب يعطي أمثله متعددة فهو يخدم الشخص العادي والتاجر والقائد والأب والام ( كل طبقات المجتمع) . العيب الذي لم يعجبني في الكتاب هو التطويل والسرد الامنتهي في بعض الامور.الكتاب شيق ومثير كما أني انصح به للقراءة .
This book gives good insight to compliance strategies and main reasons we are persuaded - however I was unimpressed by a few of the examples Cialdini used and the main conclusion he made at the end of the book.
Example 1: After claiming to have been a bigger socialite than he really is to impress a young attractive saleswoman, Cialdini became particularly pugnacious about her "strategy of tricking him into exaggerating his habits" where as this was his fault, not the saleswoman's.
3. SOCIAL PROOF - One means we use to determine what is correct is to find what other people think is correct.
AUTHORITY - We are trained from birth that obedience to "proper" authority is right, and disobedience is wrong.Information from a recognized authority can provide us a valuable shortcut for deciding how to act in a situation.
(People want what they can't have)As opportunities become less available, we lose freedoms; and we hate to lose the freedoms we already have."Probably one of the best books I've read.
A must read if you're doing business; or if you want to understand why you buy things.
I tried to explain to mom how the rule of reciprocation influences our decisions while having dinner with her, tried to explain the reason behind certain behaviors of our newly appointed driver to my father.
If it is not someone's birthday, or a special occasion where someone is giving a treat, but is trying to pay my bill, I feel uncomfortable.
I simply did not want to have the Rule of Reciprocation influence me.The book with vividly furnished examples and case studies tells you what persuades and influences people, their decisions.
كتاب عظيم و مؤثر ، و بالأخص التجارب المجتمعية التي يحتويها .. و الميزة الأكبر له هي تعلمك أساليب ترك الأثر النفسي حتى تتجنب أن تكون ضحية لها على الأقل.ملاحظات أخرى:1- تشيالديني هو عالم نفس اجتماعي تجريبي و الكتاب يقع تحت أحد فروع علم النفس .. علم نفس الإقناع2- الكاتب يعتمد على أسلحة يسميها أسلحة الاستجابة الآلية .. تلك الأسلحة التي تجعلك تقول "نعم" لأي طلب كان.3- المبادئ الستة لفن الافناع التي يفرد لها المؤلف فصول الكتاب : 1- التبادل 2- الالتزام و الثبات 3- المحبة 4- السلطة 5- الندرة 6- البرهان الاجتماعي
Although this book is informative it is also repetitive. It states that a vast majority of people don't think for themselves and go along with the majority. I might have believed some of that, but I read.  Every day more and more web sites open up with alternating viewpoints. Just look at the varying opinions on this book, alone. We are not as easily led and controlled as this book and the current administration would like to think.
Robert Cialdini's very readable and sensible book satisfied both needs simultaneously.Cialdini, like many psychologists, argued that humans face many difficult decisions in life.
Supporting these ideas, Cialdini described experiments, his "undercover" work with a number of sales experts (such as car sales), and the times when he and others have been tricked to buy or do things without recognizing (until after the fact).
I'd like to share this with the other members of a board I'm on – and everyone I know who wants to influence others' behavior.
