https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41704.Shock_Wave
When I got to the condo, I took the bike inside and left the backpack inside my truck.Now, a word about my truck.
There was very little to steal, except the bag with all my biking gear which was indeed gone.However, apparently this criminal fuckin' mastermind, before making off with my bag, opened it up to see what was inside.
Apparently it is worth taking special effort out of your day, in the very middle of an act of criminal larceny, to specifically AVOID stealing Dirk Pitt, #13.------------------------Arguably the best book I've ever read.
Lucky number thirteen in the Dirk Pitt series Shock Wave actually has a few surprises to offer, elevating it from the standard Clive Cussler formula.
As for that daughter Maeve, she is not only an admirable young woman and a pretty decent heroine, but a legitimate romantic interest for Dirk Pitt.
Dorsett's two other daughters are largely cartoon caricatures, with Boudicca unnecessarily (and illogically) over-the-top, but important in demonstrating their father's ruthless power and control over them.While the story is book-ended by some massive action pieces, involving daring rescues and last minute escapes from certain doom, Cussler does something different in the middle of the tale.
Do tattooed breasts behave differently from non-tattooed ones (no experience here, sorry)?For the most part, I do give credit to Cussler and/or his editor for removing most of the mind-boggingly weird and usually exploitative sexytimes so oft present in the earlier Dirk Pitt novels.
As other readers have noted, this is a very James Bond-esque Dirk Pitt novel.
In general, I like the Dirk Pitt novels that involve him looking for a treasure or sunken ship, and not so much the ones where he, Al, and Admiral Sandecker save the world (again).
A cruise ship drops some people off on a shore excursion to Seymour Island in the Antarctic.
Just when things get desperate, Dirk Pitt and his pal Al Giordino shows up to rescue the people inexplicably abandoned on the island.
Dirk and his friend Al are ruggedly handsome men and all around good guys.
Dirk is the Admiral's friend.
The defacto leader of Seymour Island shore excursion is Maeve Fletcher.
In other words, they are a nasty lot.Adventures abound in the story as Dirk gets in one predicament after another.
I didn't know what to expect from Shock Wave because it got mixed reviews, but I was very amazed!
In this entry of the Dirk Pitt series, Pitt is up against a ruthless Diamond Businessman who has devised a deadly threat to the world.
I found this one to be very different from the previous books, I think it's because we normally find Pitt searching for Treasure or sunken ships, and this was totally different, but in a good way.And Shock Wave also shows us Pitt's softer side, and some emotional moments, Cussler really didn't focus on that in his earlier books.
Wow, the 13th book in the series.
Will it be unlucky for Pitt?
I think we both know that won't be the case.The formula is set and you know it by now.
So do millions of others around the world, and that's why we buy and read these books.
They're fun and a great escape from the same-old same-old.This book is another in the line.
You start out with your historic opening and then move to today.
Cars and women and rich tyrants - what's not to like?
I'm confident you'll enjoy this book, just like you enjoyed the others.
Have fun!
I’m really enjoying this series. This novel has been my favorite. As always looking forward to many more.
In the 13th installment of Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt NUMA series, Shock Wave, Dirk and Al return to save the day in another wild and crazy action-adventure.
When Dirk investigated the baffling deaths of marine animals in Antartica, he stumbled on sonething more chilling.
The passengers and crew of the cruise ship died, leaving stranded on a remote island whaling station, a small party of tourist led by Maeve Fletcher.
And it lead him to her estranged father and sisters of the global diamond cartel Dorsett Consolidated Mining.
From an escape of a Canadian mine to shark infested waters, it was up to Dirk to thwart Dorsett's plans before an unthinkable disaster happened.
I can't believe it but Clive Cussler out did himself with this Dirk Pitt novel. What made this book surpass the other I've read in the series is seeing a different side of Pitt. He actually falls in love with a women and wants to spend the rest of his life with her, this is what separates this book from the others. It added a depth to the Pitt that wasn't there yet even with the Pacific vortex novel. Best book in the series so far!
Dirk Pitt is my hero! I love, love, love Cussler's Dirk Pitt adventures. This was the 1st Pitt adventure I read and I had to read the rest.
This is 500+ pages of pure adrenalin filled, life threatening adventure.Dirk Pitt rescues a cruise ship (and 20+ passengers) circling an island in the Antarctic Ocean after an horrific plague has killed nearly everyone onboard plus all the animal-life surrounding the island.
Two of the passengers (Maeve and Deirdre) are related to Arthur Dorsett a diamond mining kingpin with grand designs of ruling the diamond world regardless of who is killed in the taking.Dirk is tasked with solving the riddle of this plague that kills indiscriminately.
His daughters - Maeve, Deirdre and Boudicca all play a role in this spectacular saga.
This was easily my least favorite Dirk Pitt story to date. It's still good, just not what I've come to expect. Things started off well: action in the ocean! Then a bunch of weird stuff happened, some parts were still in the ocean but it a lot of the action had disappeared. Then the end almost got things back on track: more action, funny back and forth between Dirk and Al, even a more human side of Dirk (not sure if that's good or bad). All in all, not my favorite but better than a sunburn.
Het lukt de kapitein om alle opvarenden op het vlot te krijgen, maar door stormen, vechtpartijen en ziekten overleven slechts een handje vol mensen de helse tocht en belanden op een afgelegen eiland.In het hedendaagse blijkt het eiland een bron te zijn van vele diamanten en de basis van het Dorsett-imperium.
De nabestaanden van Dorsett en Fletcher proberen om de diamantmarkt in te laten storten door in een keer al hun diamanten op de wereldmarkt te gooien.
Hier voor hebben zij een speciale procedure ontwikkeld die echter een dodelijk gevaar bevat.Het verhaal wordt op een gegeven moment langdradig, en herhaalt zich soms.
This was another good Dirk Pitt book. It was a fascinating look into the world of diamonds, and how driven someone can become by greed. And at the end, yes, sea serpents do exist! I always enjoy the Dirk Pitt series.
Older Dirk Pitt book, but very enterntaining. Cussler is a little wordy here.
Action packed Good read, same great cast with additions. Pitt and his friend Al, appear to have 9 lives. Some parts were a little drawn out, but still worth the read.
Vintage Cussler, though a little bit more emotional than I was expecting. I had hoped he would get to sail off into the sunset but alas it wasn't to be.
Pitt would come across to me between Mc Gyver and James Bond (the recent ones, without the over reliance to gadgets) Be warned though, the prints are small, but as I was reading this, the characters seemed to leap out of the pages.
He saved a group of people including Maeve, and then, the twist started.
The most interesting part would be when Pitt, Al & Maeve were left on a small boat in a middle of nowhere and trying to survive.
So, it was a bit slow moving for me :P (not the novel!)..Was trying my best to guess how they survived the ordeal.
Cussler's Dirk Pitt is an action hero and supposedly based upon Cussler's own experiences in life.
I was intrigued and knowing how much my husband liked the Dirk Pitt books -- I jumped in.
Cussler comes up with a potentially plausible method and it is up to Dirk to stop it.
but that's the story that Cussler tells.I enjoyed reading this and it was fast paced as well as action oriented.
I'll read another one or two of Cussler's tales now that I have "met" Dirk Pitt - I'm curious about the back story which was referred to in this book.
Clive Cussler's protagonist Dirk Pitt is a James Bond style hero, but one that prefers sea to land.
The two centuries old tale of Captain Scaggs at the seas is simply fantastic.
The story gets a little less exciting as we return to the present, but the author managed to keep my attention till the very end of the long book.
Although I enjoyed reading the book, I wasn't too impressed.
Simply because I like my characters more down-to-earth, more human, more real.
Pitt in the other hand is one of those too perfect characters that I can't really believe in.
However, if you enjoy reading Bond, you might like this too.
The imagery in this book was stunning, even though it is third person, the reader still feels like they are really there while the complexity makes it really fun to read, there are often up to seven characters in the story at one time, so there is never a dull moment.
The author seems to have an impressive knowledge about, be it a car, aircraft, or ship, the author knows all about, bringing the reader even closer into the story.
The historic value of this book also made it very interesting, most of the time the ship or shipwreck the author is talking about is real.
I diamanti!
I really loved this book. Full of tension and mystery.
I like Cussler's thrillers.
She's probably about 6'10 and built like a brick outhouse.
(Sometimes I wonder if he isn't implying that maybe she is a woman built like a guy...sort of androgynous?) But then in fight scenes Cussler is very confusing.
You get her in a last fight with Al Giordini who is supposedly built like a brick outhouse but half her size...and he wins...
I don't really like his fight scenes.
I can't wait to go to the next Dirk Pitt adventure...they're that good.
So, quibbles aside, he is prob the best thriller writer in Anglo-america.
Another great ride from Clive Cussler, dealing with operative extraordinaire Dirk Pitt, who investigates mysterious mass killings of wildlife in the Antarctic area that escalates into murder when a cruise ship falls victim to the plague.
Pitt and his friend Al Giordino team with one of the survivors of the cruise ship tragedy, marine biologist Maeve Fletcher, to hunt down the source of the force that is decimating both human and animal alike.Unknown to Pitt and Maeve, her estranged father, diamond magnate Arthur Dorsett, is responsible for the deaths as a byproduct of his plan to take total control of the world diamond market by flooding the world with cheap diamonds from his extensive mines.
Otra de las novelas de Clive Cussler que trata sobre este maravilloso personaje de Dirk Pitt, aunque debo reconocer que es de las que el argumento me ha parecido más flojo.
No la elaboración de la novela, que me parecio muy interesante.Pero debo de reconocer que el argumento de crear una saturación del mercado de diamantes para poder subir el precio de las otras gemas de color, me parecio un poco flojo.
Quiza lo que no me gusto es que no haya el tipico misterio histórico por detras, que suele aparecer en todas las novelas.
Cussler is an expert researcher as evidenced in part by Pitt's activity in Ottawa and the Queen Charlotte Islands with the Haida.
I found this the most interesting part of the story, especially the local Ottawa connection when Pitt has to meet with officials from Environment Canada.I'm not a huge fan of 3rd person omniscient narration, but I like what Cussler does with it.
Never dull or boring.The only minor bothersome part was the fact that this novel is longer than it really needed to be.
But it's stapled on to this one and really doesn't need to be there.
I'd really enjoyed some Clive Cussler / Dirk Pitt tales when I was in my 20s.
We used to share them at the travel agency where I worked, and they did make great vacation reading.
The book seemed well-researched, and it was well-written.
I knew there was a Dirk Pitt formula that I'd enjoyed in the past, but this was just too over-the-top (and a bit long).
An interesting coincidence -- while reading the book, I heard a news story following up on the diplomats that were injured by sound waves.
That made the premise of this book more believable.
A typical Dirk Pitt book.
In this particular book, the ruthless supervillain is a diamond mogul who has a plan to destroy the world diamond market, and oh by the way, might accidentally kill a few million people along the way.As with most (all?) Dirk Pitt books, the first few chapters of the book are a historical accounting of something that happened a long time ago (usually some truth mixed with some fiction) that ends up being relevant.
That particular story (about 10% of the book) was 5-star worthy - some of the best reading I've done in a long time.
Review of SHOCK WAVE by Clive CusslerA excellent escape read.
Many of Clive Cussler novels are believable and could possibly occur, that is not the case with SHOCK WAVE.
However this occurs in this novel, as well as Dirk Pitt so close to death on 2 occasions, yet somehow finding it the ability to overcome enormous odds and defeat an extraordinary adversary.
This novel receives a 3 star rating, because it us too far fetched, yet it keeps the reader not wanting to put book down and discover how the hero Dirk Pitt overcomes, survives and ultimately wins.
