https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9943.The_Atonement_Child
The fact that she chose to write a novel tackling rape and abortion from a pro-life stance is admirable and demonstrates the prioritising of Christian values in her profession as a writer.
Indeed, those who don't like this book have focused on the overt pro-life stance and the fact that it is "overly preachy." But maybe that is what is needed in a day when Christian compromise is the norm and thorny issues are avoided.The story itself is well told and believable.
If Rivers had introduced too much psychological trauma it would have made the book more graphic and would have changed the focus from God's plan of redemption to the crime, victim and criminal.
I think what pisses me off most about this fact is that Rivers could have told this story with a protagonist who got pregnant after having sex, but instead she chose to use rape as a means to communicate her agenda.
Maybe there are real people who feel that way, but it was extremely obvious that Rivers wasn't interested in telling a story about sexual violence and healing.
But I am completely disgusted by the way she chose to tell her story and express her opinions.
The Atonement Child by Francine Rivers follows the story of a young college girl who is raped and finds herself pregnant.
This is a hard topic for anyone to discuss and while the novel itself is an excellent read (Rivers is by far one of my favorite authors), I was surprised to find out how close the issue was for the author.
When asked which book has been the hardest to write and why, Rivers responded: “The Atonement Child was the most personal and difficult to write because I had to face my own abortion experience.
I’ve received countless letters from other post-abortive women and have learned my experience is not unique.
Since this book was a Christian novel about an unwanted pregnancy, one would also expect a strong anti-abortion message, but one also would expect a novel.
Having read Sure As the Dawn I should have been prepared for the fact that Ms. Rivers is capable of churning out some really bad junk, as well as her quality novels.
Yes, I am a Christian and anti-abortion and I agree with much of her message, but that doesn't change the fact that the novel has some big problems that, if not Ms. Rivers, some good consultants or editors should have fixed.
Ms. Rivers does not take a simplistic black/white, secular bad/Christian good approach.
Francine Rivers did such a great job portraying the big issue of abortion in this book.
You know the "why do bad things happen to good people" ordeal?
Her life as she knows it is over, unless she does what everyone else seems to think she should do, gets an abortion.
No bad reputation, no ruined life, no reminders of the bad thing that happened to her, as far as those around her it seems to be the perfect solution....
This book certainly gives much to think about.
Sanctify unto me all the firstborn, whatsoever openeth the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of beast: it is mine.
Exodus 13:2First Sentence: It was on a cold January night when the unthinkable, unpardonable happened.I think the first time I read this book I was to young to fully comprehend the emotional carnage that this book brings.
I had to take breaks, put the book down and read something else, or just not read for a few days.Some times it's so hard to follow God's word, to do what He wants.
The premise of the book is rape and abortion, both horrifically nightmare inducing topics.
If you have a weak system, do not read this book.
A very heart wrenching look into the REAL church culture surrounding abortion and the hypocrisy we tend to hide.
Would they have her abort the baby and keep it a secret, enabling her to keep her job?
As christians, we are called to love; and again Ms. Rivers points out the inner selfish desires that cause us to overlook the voice of God pleading with us to open our hearts and arms.
After reading several other books by Francine Rivers, I was highly disappointed by this novel.
I understand that her goal was to unpack abortion, and the regrets and ramifications it causes; however, this book felt like a con list for the procedure thinly veiled by a "story," rather than a well-written plot about a central issue.
They were simply tools used by the author to show another pro-life point.
Also, I feel like the psychological wounds of the rape causing Dynah's pregnancy were largely glossed over in order to focus on the author's goal.
But in this book, Rivers simply beats her point into the ground with every angle she can get.
So terrible. I tried to give Rivers one last chance. Even though I already suffered through Redeeming Love, everyone said I should give this one a chance. I thought it was supposed to be a novel, but its actually pro-life propoganda, which wouldn't be so bad if you classified it as such. But it fails in every way possibly as prose.
It was seriously hard to read this book.
I'm prolife, yes even in the instance of rape, and personally don't agree with birth control either.
But seriously, this book wasn't a story, it was a prolife, anyone who thinks abortion is ok is an evil person, pamphlet.
Well she's a crap parent with a drunk daughter who of course was on birth control....
And how many people in one story can have an abortion that ruinned their lives and gave them cancer????
This book could have been so awesome if the author told a story instead of pushed an agenda.
Excellent book! My first Francine Rivers & certainly not my last. This touched my heart in so many ways. I loved it.
I felt it hurried key moments of development in the central character, Dynah.
The author excelled at examining marriages and family dynamics by exploring the vast range of emotions felt by Dynah, her parents, and her grandmother.
Normally the omission of options would not be criteria for ranking a book but it is clear the author is using the story as a means of helping girls in this situation and I applaud her for doing so.
Yet, while Dynah was a nineteen year old college student with many options available to her most girls who find themselves pregnant are much younger and adoption is almost always the very best option.
Even when she got pregnant, her boyfriend (trained to be a pastor) and all her Christian College dean and professors, parents and friends wanted her to have an abortion saying that God will understand.
When a girl and her boyfriend was in the abortion clinic, Jesus was there with them saying No, I love you.
And when the girl went into the examination room to have the baby aborted, Jesus was crucified once again - God's Atonement Child for our sins.
My main problem with this book was the ending.
Seriously, "Will you marry me?" You have to be kidding me.
I don't know what it had to do with anything and it seriously took away from the book.
Was that supposed to be her daughter in the future in this far fetched viscous circle of getting pregnant when you don't want to and deciding whether or not to abort the baby.
I might seriously say it was one of the worst endings to a book I've ever read.
This is a very hard book to read even for a believer.
Well I should say it was hard for me personally to read this book with choices I have made in my own life.
This book will have you angry, in tears and ashamed all at the same time.
The story is redeeming in the end and of course it all works out as God has intended but you learn a lot about yourself, other believers and faith along the way.
This book put a lot of focus on generational sin and how one grandmother's choice has tainted all the women in her line.
I appreciate that this book delves into the controversial moral and intimate subject of abortion.
I'm glad that the author didn't make all the Christians "good guys" and the non-Christians "bad guys".
I'm glad she shone a light on the hypocrisy that's rampant in Christianity.But I just didn't like very much else about this book.
The way everything resolved was too perfect.
I've never read Christian fiction before, but I had high hopes that this would be a though-provoking and deep book, based on the beginning.
About a quarter of the way through, though, it just got a little to schmaltzy and preachy for me.
I really don't like this. Every single character is so depressed and has tons of problems. From abortion to cancer to sex before marriage,it made me feel sad, and it's not even a good sadness. I have to say that I expected something a bit more uplifting from a christian author. :(
The young girl in this book starts out with everything a girl could want; a healthy, pure relationship with a guy, attending a Christian college, friends that love her, and a strong relationship with God. But all that changes as one night she is badly raped and ends up with a child.
With help from her family and a true friend, she must find the strength to follow the path that her Savior has for her, and she just might find everything she could ever ask for.This book brought me to tears when I read it.
I loved the power and meaning of this book that shows our path may not always be God's path for us.
There is a lot of preachy sections and though I think all of it is true and worthwhile I don't think a novel is the place for it.
I don't think that someone who is looking for or in need of encouragement to make a pro-life decision is going to look in a novel and if they happen to I don't think they'd take it that seriously, since it would be QUITE ridiculous to site sources in the text.
For this reason a lot of the preachy sections just come across as over the top and condescending toward someone who might not be pro-life.
One of the BEST books ever written about the abortion issue.
Having been involved in the pro-life movement for decades, I have seen many sides of the abortion debate.
I have read many books.
Whether staunch pro-lifers, "pro-choice," or undecided on the issue, ATONEMENT CHILD will give them plenty of food for thought.
We read this novel in a book club I facilitated, and all the ladies loved it!
Discussion questions at the back make it a powerful tool to assign in an ethics class or other church and educational venues.
Then try out her other powerful novels, as well.
Her writing flows beautifully, her dialogues are well written and keep you reading, plot, romance, love, forgiveness, God's wisdom is all wrapped up in her books.
I have some friends who sadly got writ of their baby, yes it IS a baby and I refuse to call it "the problem" or the "fetus", they all confirmed what Francine wrote about, even if they may not believe in God, they all agree that they regret their decision and they will carry that weight for the rest of their lives.
If you're looking for a good book with a lot of suspense, love, truth and God's wisdom, please read it, and I promise you won't regret it.
While I do consider myself a religious person, I don't like to read things that preach to me.
I read it in a few days and had a hard time putting it down.
I've never had any experience with abortion, nor known anyone personally who has, but this book sure made me think hard about the subject and see things from different views that I had not considered before.
I give it 4 stars because, while the story was wonderful, and thought compelling, there were many times when I skimmed over sections (mostly the religious parts).
Wonderful read, and would certainly recommend to anyone.
Francine Rivers always give a great story based on God's character and men's depravity.
Her characters could be based on real people.
I think the one that gripped me the most was the doctor that was performing the abortions and the reasons why.
I realize not all doctors have the same reason but I appreciated this part of the story the most.
If you are pro choice, you will either feel that this book is an attack on your beliefs, however, I am sure that Rivers prayer that is God will grip the hearts of those that read this and see the truth of abortion.
First review : read this novel when it first came out. However I plan to reread it soon. I don't remember specific facts.Definitely looking forward to rereading it. However, I remember the message was that no matter what sin you have committed, God's word He will make your sin that is a scarlet as white as snow. Also, personal forgiveness. Which many people overlook and that is a very vital important factor in healing after an abortion.Second review : to follow after I finish reading this 2016-November.
This book is AMAZING and well worth the read. It really speaks to God's mercy and the power of accepting his forgiveness. My only warning would be to any one that has been touched personally by abortion. I suggest reading the author's note in the back first before reading the book so that his/her mind and heart is guarded with God's promises before beginning what could be an emotional journey.
This story doesn't really answer the question of why bad things happen to good people.
We forget the whole east/west thing of forgiveness and we refuse grace because we place our own human limitations on God. If I were to rate the book on how it displays the way American Christians today deal with their shortcomings, I'd say it was accurate and I'd give it 5 stars.
Not in the specific circumstances of rape or abortion, but in the way that Christians tend to take a legalistic view of God. Everybody thinks they know what He wants and expects.
Amazing. Wow. This book makes you think deep. What are REALLY your beliefs on Abortion? Especially as a Christian. Every dialogue in the pro-life/pro-choice movement is in this book. Every single one. This book brought tears. It was like an onion. New layers of the plot kept being peeled back. It was such a read. I need something light after something that deep.
I'm really giving this 4.5/5 stars,and only because the plot felt a little all over the place at times. Francine Rivers captivated my heart with yet another beautiful story that perfectly depicts the gospel. Would recommend to a friend.
One point I'd get annoyed with the characters, another point I would begin to think the book was getting better, until it just takes another big downfall in the next few pages.
And not to mention a lot of the book was extremely predictable.Joe was a great character.
I thought that was awesome.(view spoiler)[I had a big problem with the fact Dynah just went along and proposed to Joe in the middle of a hospital.
Yes, it's a rather deep subject to write on - abortion and rape, and the book opened my eyes to the reality of some womens' lives, but I'm sure it could've been dealt with better.
Dynah is a girl who has loved God all her life and she is currently in college and engaged to the future pastor, Ethan.
Dynah’s faith here will be pushed to the limit while family secret’s are unraveled and relationships start to crumble and decisions become harder and pressure seems to win over faith in a time when the question pushed to her is- will she end the life that was conceived through her worst nightmare?
This book truly dissects the truth about abortion and the value of children.
