https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1387889.The_Sword_of_the_Dawn
A rousing, frenetic third entry in the History of the Runestaff series. Dorian Hawkmoon grows weary, however:"All I seek is a little love, a little peace, and to be revenged upon those who have ravaged my homeland."Buck up, Dorian. One more book to go.
The third in the Hawkmoon saga.... I read these years ago and they stand up well.These are the classics for a reason.I've mentioned before that Hawkmoon was the first "incarnation" of the Eternal Champion I ran across. I still have a "soft spot" for those particular books. All that aside, they are excellent reads and I recommend them wholeheartedly. I am not particularly a Michael Moorcock fan and he has written some books I even dislike, but "these" are wonderful books. Enjoy.
In many of the quests in such literature, the hero has to show himself worthy to attain the main object of the quest through the successful completion of a series of subsidiary quests, usually three in number.
Often connected to the main quest (in much the same way that in computer games objects must be collected in a particular order to reach the final goal), they could also have an allegorical significance related to the hero's personal development.
In the first half, we get more detail about the depravity of Granbretan aka the Dark Empire, and that is a lot of fun. Yeah, these bad guys are just pure bad, 'lawful evil,' but Moorcock is having a lot of fun describing their city, rituals, culture, and monarchical intrigues. The plot twist about the ambassadors was glaringly obvious, though. Most of the second half is just a hack, slash 'dungeon crawl,' followed by a cliche pirate thing. And I am really getting sick of the deus-ex-machina Warrior in Jet and Gold.
Another Eternal Champion incarnation from Moorcock. After Elric and Corum Hawkmoon is great. Good read and story. Very recommended.
Appear the well known thopters flying and flamethrowers Empire Black, viscous the globe that contains the fetal body Huon (of which you have not yet understood the nature), but also the machine crystal that allows you to transfer people and things in other dimensions and an aircraft-shaped ball that can break through the earth's crust.As in other novels, science travels hand in hand with the magic, since considerable supernatural elements and objects play a fundamental role in the affair in question; not least the rings that allow the transfer of people in the planes of existence and the Sword of Dawn.I must, however, that this episode is less than the previous two, because Moorcock loses some of the originality that had marked and history is less appealing and more predictable.
This series is about the spreading of the evil Empire of Granbretan, and the efforts of Hawkmoon and company to save a small nation protected by Count Brass.
But it's also about our hero's unwilling service to the mysterious Runestaff, and Hawkmoon is aided by its servant, the enigmatic Warrior in Jet and Gold.
In Sword of the Dawn, he actively starts to resist this supposed destiny, while still fighting to stop the mad forces of Granbretan and save Count Brass' tiny country.This was a strong volume in the series.
It wasn't bad. It wasn't great either. I found the book refreshingly abbreviated. This is all action with barely any introspection, so it moves at a good pace and if you read slow lime me, it won't take you six months to finish like some 4-500+ page novels I've read. I have another Hawkmoon book, so I hope that after reading this one it will be more interesting.
can the lost be returned?Dorian is on a mission to return Kagam back to it's proper place and time. this leads D'Avec and he to taking many chances, one even bringing them into the center of the Empire itself. each time, they have wonderful help escaping...perhaps the Runestaff is exerting it's influence?
Fair to middling at best. Kind of waffled when pirate characters were introduced. Hopefully the last book in the sequence ties everything to a satisfying conclusion.
Quite enjoyable in its own way.
The Warrior in Jet and Gold forever!
Bizarre inventions abound, and almost before we notice, Moorcock takes us and his protagonists off to America - a place which on the far future / alternative world (it is still not clear which, but I'm increasingly leaning towards it being both) of The History of the Runestaff seems almost like a different planet.
The History of the Runestaff, while still light on Eternal Champion mythology shows a kind of foreshadowing of this in the way it tells very familiar adventure stories but in the telling twists and turns them into something very bizarre and uniquely Moorcockian.
Moorcock returns to form after the rather flat ‘Mad God’s Amulet’.The inhabitants of Castle Brass, voluntary exiles in a parallel Earth, become anxious when the Granbretanian playwright Elvereza Tozer (whose works include the classic ‘Adulf and Shirshill’) suddenly appears in their dimension.
It transpires that he can travel through the dimensions with the aid of a crystal ring made by Mygan of Llandar.
This is after a "traveller" has reached them by means of magic rings and they need to know if Baron Meliadus is searching for these rings or any other means of travelling to Castle Brass's new location.After narrowly escaping the Dark Empire they find the wise old man who was the originator of the rings, and he tricks Hawkmoon and D'Averc into travelling off to a foreign land in pursuit of the Sword of the Dawn (part of the Runestaff's destiny for Hawkmoon) when he would rather be returning to his beloved Yisselda at Castle Brass.
Cover it, school-textbook style, before reading.That said, the book itself is top-notch, one of the better novels in the whole Eternal Champion cycle.
As well, The Sword of the Dawn is set on a new continent in the purview of the Eternal Champion, Amarehk (yes, it is what you think it is), and Moorcock's descriptions of the city of Nawlin (yes, it's at the delta of the big river) are perhaps the most detailed urban descriptions in the whole series.The novel could probably stand on its own without too much of the ongoing plot being lost, but aspiring Moorcock readers are encouraged to read the whole series (preferably after those of Elric, Corum, and Erekose, at least).
Back to some of the foundational books of fantasy writing, I'm working my way through the first Hawkmoon series by Michael Moorcock.
While The Sword of Dawn could use a little expansion on the motivation of the characters and perhaps a bit more dialogue, and a touch more description of the fairly fantastical land Hawkmoon & D'Averc are traversing wouldn't go amiss...it's rather refreshing to read something that's not so bloated by deconstructed storytelling that it takes 200 pages to get from point A to point B.This book is much more about plot than anything else.
My revisiting of the Runestaff trilogy reached the end of SotD today and a jolly rollicking good read it was too.
We learn a bit more of this post Apocalypse world with what might be called mutants or some such and some other places with vowels missing or in the wrong order.
America?One thing has been puzzling me though, how come everyone on this world speaks the same language?
Another inventive fantastical world and challenges for our troubled hero...
looking forward to completing the saga and moving on to revisit Elric...
Zapped into safety by mystic objects he pines for adventure only to have it thrust upon him by the mysterious warrior in jet and gold ( who is this guy?).
Crashed ornithopters, captured by Meliadus again, finding mystics (Mygan I'm guessing is Merlin, just love Moorcock's "guess who/where this is" way of naming things), zapped again to another place, attacked by eldritch octopuses ( is Moorcock a fan of Lovecraft?).....
But what is interesting is that the character of the individuals is shown by ow they react to situations rather than big long babbles about what they feel (except dear Dorian pines dreadfully for Yisselda).
More cut and thrustThe third instalment in the Runestaff series is another tale of derring-do and adventure set in a far-off time after the planet has undergone an unexplained apocalypse and reverted to a world of swords, sorcery, and pseudo-science. Dorian Hawkmoon, Duke of Köln, continues his battle against the evil Baron Meliadus and the empire of Granbretan, while searching for the fabled Runestaff, to which he is an unwitting servant. Once again it’s great fun written in a plain and straightforward style.
Classic swords and sorcery written in a light-hearted spirit. One should read the two preceding books of this 4-book series: sufficient background for context is lacking. Still, it's an enjoyable masculine buddy adventure tale with plenty of action, and zero padding. I'd say it's pretty clear that Moorcock has read Jack Vance and Tolkien. I'd also say that Moorcock was influential for Robert Jordan, but I wish Jordan had tried harder to appreciate Moorcock's style.
As I waited for my oatmeal to boil, I simultaneously took a quick shit and finished this book. Maybe it was the pleasant sensation of a comfortable bowel movement, or maybe it was the lowered expectations adopted from reading the first two volumes of this series, but I was inclined to say that I enjoyed this volume more and that it deserved a higher rating. I then remembered that a 2-star rating was generous for each of the first two volumes.
A good continuation of the saga of hawkmoon.After shifting the lands of kamarg into a separate dimension, our heroes thought themselves safe... But an intruder from Granbretan finds them, and launches a quest into the depths of the evil empire, and onwards into the unknown lands od Amerehk.Our good friends d'verac and the warrior of jet and gold make appearances again, and they quest for the secrets of the crystal rings, and the legendary sword of dawn.
This post-apocalyptic sword and (techno-)sorcery slog is far from Moorcock's best - but, like my dad once said, Moorcock was so prolific at this point that where others would crank out a dud chapter or two, he'd write a bad trilogy. And even here there are moments of queasy power (especially in the vision of the perverse future London), and the sense of a few more tiles towards the mad mosaic which all Moorcock's books together comprise.
My edition seems to be from a different editor, Mayflower, but it's not listed, and these seems the closer one, in cover and age.Mi edicion parece ser de otro editor, Mayflower, pero no aparece listada, y esta parece la mas sililar, en portada y epoca.
So pulpy it feels as much like Robert E. Howard as Moorcock. Loved all the OTT imagery. Nice to see at novel's end that Dorian is trying to be less of a Lemmiwinks 8) Glad to have finally gotten to read this one. It was impossible to get in my yout'!
No haré más comentarios: lo que opino de la saga lo dije en el primer libro.Lo que sí pasa es que aquí se le da a Dorian Hawkmoon un artefacto tan poderoso que ya llega a dar lata, porque él solo es capaz de enfrentarse a miles de enemigos sin sufrir un rasguño.
part 3 of the histroy of the runestaff. we still havent found out anything about the runestaff, except that it has plans for dorian. this story mainly takes place on a new land, where dorian and his buddy have problems with a city full of pirates. i liked this book and read it easily.
There's quite a bit to like in this book, including the deeper look at Grenbretan, the move to the evocative American continent, and the feel that we're actually on a quest for something now. However, it's still a pretty standard planetary romance beyond that.
A fun read with a little deus ex machina going on. Four books probably could have easily been cut to 3. I feel like these guys have the worst luck in the world and can't even sleep in the middle of nowhere without some beastie trying to kill them... every time.
