https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78433.The_Blind_Assassin
You know, George, you actually might like it.
Some of it's a bit depressing, but there's this very sexy thread where in each episode she meets her lover, and they lie in bed together and he tells her this bizarre science-fiction story...- A bit like we're doing now?- A bit.- I like that.
That's sort of the guy telling the story.
She's sort of the girl he's telling the story to.- How could a master assassin be blind?- Honestly, George, don't be so literal about everything.
It starts with the main character, Iris, telling us of the day when her sister Laura drove off a bridge, then shifts to Laura's posthumously published novel The Blind Assassin about two unnamed lovers who meet clandestinely and in which the man entertains his lover with pulpy science fiction stories, mostly about a blind assassin and a sacrificial virgin who fall in love against all odds.
Ultimately, The Blind Assassin is a story of two young sisters who were unlucky to be born at a wrong time when women were expected to be wholly satisfied with shiny things and not much else.
This rant has reminded me of one of my favorite lines from the Woody Allen film Sweet and Lowdown, where one of the characters is describing her thoughts on the lead’s love of the locomotive: its power, its virility, its certainty…he responds most simply with "You sound like you want to go to bed with the train." Maybe I am personifying this book, but it did take on a very real presence as I read it, and for the first time in many years, I beat the thing to shit.
Iris also tells the story of her life and that of her sister (Laura), from childhood to the “present” day, with a backdrop of two world wars, the Depression, and political/union unrest.
But a letter addressed to no one.”“I yearn for sleep… yet it flutters ahead of me like a sooty curtain.”“After having imposed itself on us like the egomaniac it is… [the body’s] final trick is simply to absent itself.”For all that Iris cultivates curmudgeonliness, it’s largely a carapace, and sometimes for entertainment (sarcastic letters to fans of The Blind Assassin, wanting to interview her about Laura); the really nasty piece of work is her arriviste sister-in-law, Winifred.
motivations are revealed, characters you thought you knew become transformed, reversals of fortune happen in the space of a paragraph, and yet what i was left with by the end was a sadness at recognizing the impossibility of true happiness, true love, true fulfillment.
nor does Blind Assassin beat the reader down with despair; much of the time i was so absorbed with the careful description of life in port ticonderoga between the wars and with enormously well-developed characters that i was able to not feel as if i was in a boat slowly drifting towards a waterfall.
‘It’s loss and regret and misery and yearn that drive the story forward, along its twisted road’, Margaret Atwood towards the end of this book.
It describes the story of the Blind Assassin, which starts with the famous sentence: ‘Ten days after the war ended, my sister Laura drove a car off a bridge.’….
It’s not an easy to read book.
It’s a dramatic mysterious story and you keep wondering who is who, what am I missing, who did what… in the end, it all fell into place for me (I think).
Why can’t we start old and get younger?****Tennyson wrote, ‘tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.’ I call bullshit.
****I suppose you want to know a bit about the book.The Blind Assassin tells the story of Iris Chase Griffen.
We feel what it must be like for her, at one time wealthy and glamorous and loved.
The salient message is this: Iris loved fiercely and suffered tremendous loss.
What a shame that we die, and get old, and everything good goes galloping away from us.” ****I am trying to break your heart.
I’ll admit to having read a lot of shorter novels lately, and I first wracked up The Blind Assassin’s slow opening to my relative naiveté with larger undertakings.
The concept is solid, the characters have strong motivations, and though I saw a lot of the ending twist coming, Atwood pulls it off in the final 100-pages with such style that I didn’t mind that I’d already figured it out.
My reading experience of Margaret Atwood’s The Blind Assassin is well summed up by the following quote from the novel.But in life, a tragedy is not one long scream.
I'll start with a bit of personal baggage, because my first exposure to Margaret Atwood's writing was The Handmaid's Tale, which I read when I was young because my parents had a copy.
Laura has a fanatical posthumous following due to a book, also called the Blind Assassin.
The plot is ultimately much more complex than the family story or the novel within a novel, but the whole thing has much to say about sibling rivalry and secrets.
I will be reading more of Margaret Atwood's work.
Margaret Atwood's The Blind Assassin is a fascinating and compelling read!
There are so many seemingly competing stories which add to the complexity of the narrator and her life.
The novel begins with the death (apparently suicide) of the narrator's sister.
This beginning section is engaging; however, the payoff for following all the story's threads comes much later in the narrative.
By about the final 100 pages I was savoring the experience of discovery: how each story had always been purposeful and relevant all along.
I'm a big fan of Margaret Atwood's works, but this is very different than anything I'd read before (like Handmaid's Tale or Oryx & Crake).
63. The Blind Assassin, Margaret AtwoodThe Blind Assassin is a novel by the Canadian writer Margaret Atwood. It was first published by McClelland and Stewart in 2000. Set in Canada, it is narrated from the present day, referring to previous events that span the twentieth century.آدمکش کور - مارگارت آتوود (ققنوس) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2007 میلادیعنوان: آدمکش کور؛ نویسنده: مارگارت آتوود؛ مترجم: شهین آسایش؛تهران، ققنوس؛ 1382؛ در 665 ص؛ فروست: ادبیات جهان 47؛ رمان 41؛ شابک: ایکس
Set in Canada, it is narrated from the present day, referring to previous events that span the twentieth century.آدمکش کور - مارگارت آتوود (ققنوس) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه نوامبر سال 2007 میلادیعنوان: آدمکش کور؛ نویسنده: مارگارت آتوود؛ مترجم: شهین آسایش؛تهران، ققنوس؛ 1382؛ در 665 ص؛ فروست: ادبیات جهان 47؛ رمان 41؛ شابک: ایکس - 964311385؛ چاپ دوم 1383؛ چاپ سوم 1385؛ چاپ پنجم 1388؛ شابک: 9789643113858؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مآدمکش کور، داستانی «سوررئالیستی» است، و برنده­ ی جایزه­ ی «بوکر»، در سال دوهزار میلادی، دو بازگویی جدا از هم است.
دو داستان در پایان به هم می­پیوندند.
در پایان داستان درمی­یابد، باج اصلی چه بوده، و چگونه پرداخته شده است.
Complex, multi-layered and skillfully crafted, The Blind Assassin is a worthy winner of the Booker Prize (2000)*. An unequivocal 5-star rating for what was one of my best reads in 2017. I thoroughly enjoyed Ms Atwood’s acerbic wit and subtle satire.*It became the Man Booker Prize in 2002.
But until it’s done, it’s a dark, almost gothic page turner.I usually start my reviews with something about the author, but unusually for me I’ve already read three books by this author (the dystopian Maddaddam Trilogy).
A novel that has science fiction elements is involved, but it’s not the novel you hold in your hand when you read The Blind Assassin (BA).
I never really made the connection between the sort-of SF novel written by one of the book’s characters (called “BA”), and some of the chapters in the book in my hands that were actually titled The Blind Assassin: ….
In this novel, a mystery is slowly revealed through the narration of an older, eighty-something year old Iris as she reflects on her childhood and her days of marriage to the powerful and manipulative Richard Griffen and his sister, Winifred.
They hadn't yet seen Hitler at the opera house."Iris also introduces us to a series of secondary characters, including Alex Thomas, a young man suspected of being a Communist rabble-rouser of sorts.
"Reenie said a girl alone with a man should be able to hold a dime between her knees." Alex Thomas meets with an unnamed lover in some questionable and squalid locations as he goes into hiding.
In this sense it’s a typical Booker Prize winner (for me the only time the Booker judges have got even close to being on the money in the past decade is Hilary Mantel).Ostensibly The Blind Assassins tells the story of two sisters and their relationships with two men at either ends of the political spectrum – Iris marries the industrialist and fascist sympathiser Richard Griffen, her sister Laura is infatuated with a communist agitator, Alex Thomas.
"Thick plots are my specialty.
If you want a thinner kind, look elsewhere..." [119]Indeed one delves into an Atwood with the thought "What effect is she trying to convey" always, ALWAYS at the forefront of your mind.
The first 400+ pages of it, yes, I will admit, my early review would have read as such: "The interplay of attempts both conscious (the nebulousness of plot) and un- (surplus description) falls well below expectation." But I was dead wrong.
You will remember--these are the musings of the main character in retrograde--she is an old woman*--her thoughts are akimbo.
Every night I yearn for sleep, I strive for it; yet it flutters on ahead of me like a sooty curtain."The Blind Assassin won the Booker Prize in 2000, but please don't hold it against the book, because, apparently, in 2000 the judges got it right.I had long been intrigued by this book because of the cover - it looks very stylish - but I had no idea what the book would be about and almost expected this would be another one of Atwood's dystopian speculative fictions.I was completely wrong.
Well, in a manner of speaking.)The Blind Assassin is a family saga set in Ontario and focuses on the lives of Iris and her sister Laura, beginning with one of the most hard-hitting paragraphs I have read recently:"Ten days after the war ended, my sister Laura drove a car off a bridge.
This novel is a crazy ice meteor shot through the heart of a Virginia Woolf novel. The further you get into it, the more your fingers feel every fiber on every rough cut page. You don't just begin to smell the book; page after page, you almost begin to taste the ink. Atwood doesn't write from the head, the crotch or the gut. She soul-butts you. Her words bite and kick your trash on every level.
The main one is narrated by Iris Chase Griffen, who grew up the daughter of a prominent Port Ticonderoga family and then, at 18, was basically pawned off by her father to become the wife of a powerful industrialist with political aspirations.
Now in her early 80s, she’s poor, mostly alone (except for visits by Myra, the daughter of her family’s former housekeeper) and living in a house in her home town.Her story begins with the remarkable sentence: “Ten days after the war ended, my sister Laura drove a car off a bridge.”Laura was driving Iris’s car, and Iris is required to identify the body.
Having absolutely loved Atwood's "A Handmaid's Tale," I decided to try out "The Blind Assassin." Verdict?
I was just trying to plod through and finish the thing.
At times, I was more eager to find out what happened to the blind assassin and the girl without a tongue in the sacrificial temple than I was to find out what was really going on between the Chase sisters.
This book took me over a week to finish.
I'm not giving up on Atwood, but this one was a C+, at best, just for boring me.
This has brought my definition of a five star book into dramatic focus.
In a few weeks I may read some other lovely book and I’ll think is this a five star book?
It’s the story of two lovers who imagine a world far away, but can’t escape the one they live in.
It’s the story of an old woman, and the accumulated guilt and regret of a lifetime.
The story feels completely seamless.
I read this book with a sense of complete astonishment.
But without such ignorance, such carelessness, how could we live?
Having recently read and been suitably impressed and enthralled by Margaret Atwood’s ‘The Handmaid’s Tale’ – I approached Atwood’s highly recommended and much lauded ‘Blind Assassin’ with a similarly high level of expectation.
However, what Atwood has created here is a hugely accomplished and engaging novel of epic proportions and Dickensian scale.‘Blind Assassin’ is an intricate multi-layered, non-linear narrative combining shifting timelines and interwoven story(ies) within story(ies) – it is a story of memory and memories, of lives remembered and of lives unknown.
This is the kind of novel that stays with the reader long after the final page has been read.
Impressively hefty, but convinces me ultimately that Atwood has written much better books.An elderly woman remembers her life.
The story flickers between present, past and pulp science fiction (view spoiler)[ bah!
That's just everyday life, you are probably saying (hide spoiler)].She remembers: her lover, a hack writer of pulp science fiction and political radical.
I feel a good degree of regret at this book, as well as a certain sympathy towards it, it works very hard, it is skilful and clever, but the more it goes on , the more it reminds me that Atwood has impressed me more elsewhere.
رواية مرهقة لكنها ممتعة بما تحويه من تفاصيل وحبكة مميزة، فقط تسلسل الاحداث كان محيراً بعض الشئ
Structuring it like those nested Russian dolls, she tucks a science fiction/fantasy tale within a sad, mysterious love story.
The Blind Assassin succeeds on all these levels: historical fiction, mystery, love story, and fantasy.
The main story is told in the first person, in the voice of elder sister Iris Chase Griffen, whose memoir spans the 20th century.
Iris and younger sister Laura are the daughters of a wealthy manufacturer in the small (fictional) city of Port Ticonderoga, Ontario.
The Blind Assassin is imbued with even more sadness than is to be expected from a story that is told by an aged woman reminiscing about long-ago events.
I have no idea what took me so long to finally read this gem. Should have done it years ago. It is absolutely brilliant. I admit I had my doubts in the first 200 pages or so. In fact it was starting to feel like a bit of slog but hold on because things quickly turn around. Clues are revealed. Events start to make sense and you begin to see Atwood's genius. This is a worthy winner of the booker prize and I'm so glad I finally read it.
I don’t trust the light in this book. I don’t trust the personnel on the switches. I think that most of them came straight from a based-on-a-book-by-Nicholas-Sparks movie set. One of the most insightful comments I ever heard about that particular saccharine mini industry was about how the majority of these movies seem to perpetually take place at “magic hour”. That is, the hazy twilight hour which is made even more hazy by classic southern settings where the heat shimmers and the light fades in
She needed to decide whether she was writing a middlebrow novel about Coming to Peace With Our Families or whether she was really going to go down the rabbit hole and really talk about how crazy it was in that period where the Old Order fell and people got vicious and confused about class, gender, domesticity and religion.
She picked out these big moments in a woman’s life, and you could tell that she had a preconceived metaphor about the way these things happen to women (getting married=sacrificial lamb, ‘becoming a proper woman’= being trussed up like a goose), and she carried it through doggedly.
“The only way you can write the truth is to assume that what you set down will never be read. Not by any other person, and not even by yourself at some later date. Otherwise, you begin excusing yourself. You must see the writing as emerging like a long scroll of ink from the index finger of your right hand; you must see your left hand erasing it.”   As Promised A full review Exhilarating poignant read, Atwood showcases exuberance and confidence throughout 600 pages and my jaw was always left a
Having read Atwood's The Handmaids Tale (Review Here) Last year I was blown away by her commanding writing, her confidence and feminist undertone even though I didn't connect with the book, it still haunts me...
So picking up this one I was 100% sure I would adore the writing and boy was I right.
Books like these are the reasons I dare not to tackle writing because she freaking owns it.
This will definitely be those books that I will always go back to, Atwood's writing will forever haunt me and I am definitely planning to tackle some if not all of her books.
He spins for her science fiction stories...one of which is entitled The Blind Assassin.
What's unusual about the main character, the elder sister, Iris, is her lack of emotion about the tragic elements of the story.
It's like she's not even remorseful that she turned the blind eye to her sister's sufferings, as if she herself were the victim.I wish I had picked another Margaret Atwood book to begin with.
I enjoyed some of the philosphical quips and the flat tone of the book, but I feel like I have already forgotten the story.
Still, if you read them as allegories for aspects of Iris and Laura’s lives they are quite worthwhile.The structure of The Blind Assassin is quite complex (without actually being confusing) in that the book jumps around several plotlines in a nonlinear manner:- Iris Chase’s modern day narrative.- Iris Chase’s flashback/historical narrative- A fictional novel within the novel (that makes it doubly fictional) about a couple of unnamed clandestine lovers, written by Laura Chase.- A science fictional story within the above-mentioned story (I’d call it triple fictional), written or narrated orally by the clandestine lover.- Newspaper articles, to give more detached and macro views of certain events in the book I think.Normally I have very little patience for the literary device of dialogues without quotation marks, I get so annoyed I want to pencil them all in.
