https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/349583.Baree
I had to read this sequel to Kazan so I could find out what had happened to the pup who wandered off from the den in Chapter 18 of that book.
In Kazan, Baree had been able to hunt some by himself when he wandered off from his den.
Kazan and his mate were never concerned, and that was the last we knew of the pup in that book.But here he wanders off by accident one day and gets lost and does not really know how to hunt even little prey so gets very hungry and dejected during his early adventures.
I loved Kazan and Baree was an such an enthralling read.
I find it amazing that this whole book is just based on the life of an animal in the wilderness, and is virtually how a lot of wolves probably live their lives in the forest.
The tale is so gripping, but it's also so normal for animals like that.
It's just amazing to think about it.Baree was so adorable.
I also love, love, love the fact that this book is almost 100 years old but I still think it is totally amazing.
I originally got this book to read with my young son but had to quit over content concerns. I ended up finishing it on my own because I really liked it, but I think it's marketed to a younger audience than is appropriate (or maybe it's just that the copy that I bought was misshelved?) and I would caution other parents to maybe read it first to determine whether your kids are mature enough for some of the more violent scenes (including some sexual violence).
After reading Kazan, a book I liked very much by the same author, I was disappointed in this book. The plot was weak, lacked emotion. and the story dragged.
i love this book it is my fav
Baree, a dark blackish coloured wolf dog, was born to Kazan and Gray wolf (from the book above) and this book is devoted to his adventures and experiences.
However, if I have to choose, I would rate the previous book a bit higher than this one.Due to his mother unfortunately being blinded during a violent fight with a lynx, she chose to deliver Baree inside the protected environment of a cave rather than under a moonlit sky in the open plains guarded by her mate, which is the norm for wolves.
The dark cave, Gray wolf and Kazan was all that tiny Baree knew, till he started experimenting more and setting out and discovering new things about the world and having his own little adventures.
A beautiful book about the love of animal. It took my breath when Baree met dangerous and made me cry when Baree tried to protect "his girl".
This is a story about a wolf-dog puppy, who is separated from his family and is forced to learn to survive on his own.
I am not keen on long descriptions of nature scenes, but the ones in this book are quite acceptable...
I particularly enjoyed the fact that Baree was a special animal - half wolf, half dog.
Therefore, I would only recommend it to those who are really interested in books about animals or nature.
Perhaps they will find a greater pleasure in reading Baree: The Story of a Wolf-Dog.
BAREE was a book where the beginning is interesting but can get boring but as you move on into the story it gets better.The story of BAREE tells the story of a half wolf half dog animal through his life traits of the dog and wolf show.
BAREE finally leaves his home and sees the sun for the first but ventures more and more away from home one day he comes upon a small owl and his wolf in him tells him to attack so he does his fight is valiant but he is lifted by the wings of the young owl they tumble down.
This and the one before it (Kazan) is one of my all time favorite books.
If you love dogs and love a good love story, this is the perfect book.
I recommend reading Curwood's book Kazan first as Baree is his son.
This is about the world of sled dogs and the wilds of that part of the world.
A great read.
I last read it in 2009 but have read it many times through the years.
Baree (Bari en la traducción española) es hijo de Kazán. En este libro siguen las aventuras de un perro lobo mitad asilvestrado mitad domesticado en los bosques del noroeste de Canadá. Es una novela de aventuras con protagonista canino, con las mismas premisas que la anterior: el ser humano en general es detestable con la naturaleza aunque hay mucha gente que redime a la raza humana. Entretenida lectura con grandes descripciones de la naturaleza y la vida salvaje.
Baree: The Story of a Wolf-DogJames Oliver CurwoodFantasy 241 pages? This book is about how a young wolf/dog with a father of a dog and a mother of a wolf survives in the wilderness. He encounters many animals and lives with some. I rated this book a four stars because it was very interesting. I enjoyed how it played out. I strongly recommend this book to young adults and teens.
Great book right up until the end.. then it fails. The ending was too predictable and quick. I can't believe I am saying this, because most authors stretch things out too much, but Mr. Curwood should have added a chapter or two to the end. Still I highly recommend it for YA, dog lovers, and for those who believe in the power of love and hope.
great storyGood intermingling of human and animal plotlines, well-written. Heartwarming. A fun, easy read that despite being slightly more "Hollywood" than "Kazan" had some real substance.
¡He registrado un libro en BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13741239
Another great book about the north country.
I really liked the first half of this book and really wanted to finish it but I didn't get to cause I moved away from the library that I got it from.
THE book of my childhood... definitely it was! Inspirational, touchable, breathtaking...
This book was marred by the human plot line that ran through it.
One of my favorites as a child =)
This was my all time favorite book when I was younger.
j'ai du lire ce livre étant enfant. je n'ai pas aimé. Terriblement lacrymal.
Heartbreaking and beautiful. His books alway make me cry, but leave me feeling hopeful.
