https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1496912.Mr_Boston_Official_Bartender_s_Party_Guide
I used this book when I was a 🍺 beer tender back in the day and found it very useful. Now I am giving it to a friend who is just starting her career.
We own a vintage hardcopy (1965, thank you Goodwill book pile) and a modern paperback. I'm not sure if the Old Mr. Boston brand of liquors still exist? But this small guide is a fun resource. The internet has likely made this book obsolete, but my household is a bit old-school. Cheers to books, cocktails, and books about cocktails. >-
For amateurs and muscled barhands alike, revamped with help from the best bartenders: tiki classics by Beachbum Berry, culinary Manhattans from Eben Freeman, and the sublime Gin Gin Mule by Audrey Saunders (gin, ginger, mint and lime; search for it, then surrender).This volume is sturdy, condensed, and intuitively organized with standards in the front, virgin, punch and hot drinks in the back, and the rest grouped by base liquor.
If you're cheap or choosy, you can easily make ginger beer concentrate, grenadine, bitters, crème de menthe and orgeat (almond syrup).
This recipe collection has come a long way from earlier editions on which I cut my teeth (and irritated my stomach lining).
Back then the book was an accurate reflection of the dismal 1980s cocktail scene, with recipes for Fuzzy Navels and Slow Comfortable Screws, but nary an authentic vintage formula.
The current (65th) edition makes Mr. Boston relevant again; it's not only caught up with today's cocktail revolution, but includes authentic versions of pre-Prohibition and midcentury classics.
(But the main reason I've got a man-crush on Mr. B is because editor Jim Meehan saw fit to include seven of my original drink recipes.)
By whatever slightly different title it may be known or by whatever edition you may have, the elegantly executed hand-sized Mr. Boston drink recipe guides, published since 1935 by Glenmore Distilleries, have been a part of life 'round these Kentucky parts for as long as I can remember. The edition I bought was the 1988 one (the one listed here); but there are older editions over at my parents' house, I'm sure. I'm no drink magician; I've only attempted a few of these. But pretty much the basic popular drinks are all here.
The best part about this book is that it has the recipes divided by base spirit (and it has quite a few recipes).  The Joy of Mixology actually breaks down cocktails into families and explains some of the evolution too.
Terribly organized, dated, and out-of-touch with reality this book offers nothing to the serious or beginning imbiber.Basically a poorly written attempt to get you to purchase Mr. Boston products which, really, tells you all you need to know about it.
Good mixology book for all the standards although it is lacking in the modern beverages department.
I can see why this is America's most popular drink guide.
Mr. Boston: Official Bartender's & Party GUide by Renee Cooper (1994)
Great guide for basic bartending knowledge. While this book is a helpful starting point, it definitely lacks recipes for any modern/trendy/common contemporary drinks (Lemon drops, etc).
