https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2165622.More_Tish
Very funny book, sort of the adult version of Amelia Bedelia. Tish (Letitia) is someone who sees what she wants and goes after it, with sometimes hilarious results. The author, Mary Roberts Rinehart is better known for her work in the HIBK sub-genre in mysteries. (Had-I-But-Known), but her humor just sparkles in this book.
Reading the Tish stories is feeding my growing conviction that Rinehart is one of the most influential writers of the 20th century. While the stories aren’t strictly mysteries, Tish is clearly the progenitor of such characters as Miss Marple and Aunt Dimity. The plots are early examples of the screwball comedies of film, as well as such writers as Thorne Smith. Recommended!
Letitia Carberry drags her two (often protesting) gal pals from mountain hide-outs to WWI trenches in (misguided) efforts to do good, and madcap adventures ensue.
Tish is something of a literary precursor to Lucille Ball, only her exasperated male relative is a nephew and Tish is much, much more willful.
Many of the gags seemed dated and a bit tired, but as a light, fast read this was still fun.
I have to admit, I was envisioning Tish and crew as women in their 60's, so when one character bemoans her decrepitude as a 40-something, I was taken aback!
I guess we really *do* stay much healthier much longer these days...
I find it completely believable that Tish, Lizzie, and Aggie could have re-captured a small French village during World War I. She is my hero!
Nice plot, charming characters. Vintage mystery. Librivox narration. Recommended.
I came across this while browsing in the Kindle bookstore.
I always think of Mary Roberts Rhinehart as a mystery writer but this isn't a mystery.
Tish is a middle-aged spinster with a talent for getting herself into escapades.
Her loyal friends Aggie and Lizzie, also middle-aged spinsters, can't help getting drawn in, too.
I particularly enjoyed their adventure with the donkey and the outlaws.
The time is 1917 and the ladies even get to the front in France, to rescue Tish's nephew.
This was quite funny.
I didn't realize it was a sequel and will likely read Tish at some point.
Tish is a crazy 50-year-old with a penchant for leading her two friends into improbable and amusing adventures involving borderline judgment and the inadvertent kidnapping of various officials with a view to furthering various good causes, such as romance or justice or Art. Everything always ends up all right, always thanks to incredible good luck. This is light, fun, frothy reading perfect for when you really need a palate cleanser between more depressing works.
A fun and improbable read from one of my favorite authors.
A great LOL book.
Simple but amusing adventures of three spinsters.
