https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6543144-facts-concerning-the-late-arthur-jermyn-and-his-family
This early Lovecraft story (first published in the amateur journal The Wanderer in 1921) is crude and only partially successful, but it is interesting for five reasons:1) It embodies Lovecraft’s autobiography in a distorted, fearful form.
Like Lovecraft, both his parents die in the madhouse, and he fears his hereditary history may hold secrets more ghastly than his physical ugliness,2) It specifically connects Lovecraft’s suspicions of his own heritage to his larger, more pervasive fears of degenerate races,3) It influenced that later, far superior tale The Shadow Over Innsmouth,4) It is the only Lovecraft story (to my knowledge) influenced by Sherwood Anderson (?!).
I can see why people may give low ratings: he gives summary and it reads like textbook archaeology. I like the way he writes. He includes archaeology and ancient gods and cultures in this story, another aspect of his writings I find intriguing. This one concerns the white god and apes, and a family haunted and tortured by a dead ape. I laughed writing this but the story reads well and has entertaining value.
That was... pretty fucking racist, man.
In the most common Lovecraft's way of retelling something, this story starts from the end, from Arthur Jermyn's suicide, emphasises the importance of something he found out, then goes back a couple of generations to tell the story of his family. The past explains his peculiar appearance and the way and reason he died.
This story is a case in point: " Jermyn...
The ape-princess, it was said, became the consort of a great white god who had come out of the West.
Later the god and the princess had returned, and upon the death of the princess her divine husband had mummified the body and enshrined it in a vast house of stone, where it was worshipped.
A second story told of the god’s return and death at the feet of his enshrined wife.
"Some devotion at least is shown by the "white god" to his other-species consort.
This is sort of a genealogical mystery with a big reveal at the end. It's like going into Ancestry.com and finding out your family tree was nothing like you assumed. It's a common Lovecraft theme, and I love all the little clues peppered along the way. The story is a little dry and reads like you're actually pouring through the historical records of a family line, which for me gave it a sense of realism that I loved, like a found footage horror film, but in short story format.
The reaction was just a touch drastic, but memorable
The unfortunate titular Arthur Jermyn was wife-free and childless, but he did have a family history dating back six generations or so, and that is the family that was being referred to.
I really liked how most of the story was the history of the generations, and how every generation came to a HORRIBLE end, leaving one and only one descendant to carry on to the next generation, and the next cycle of horror!
One of the rare HPL stories not set in New England, but in actual England (and Africa, of course).
Also one of the rare HPL stories told from a pure third-person perspective.
Written in 1920, published in 1924, 8 pages.
This is a weird little story, with lots of historical information on the Jermyn family.
The descriptions of each generation's madness are actually quite gripping and terrifying.
And the idea that a well-educated man who KNOWS that his family is viewed as strange and unstable would actually seek to disprove the rumors by BECOMING strange and unstable...that's creeptastic.
The descriptions of the things found in Africa also appear to be the harbingers of Lovecraft's future Cthulhu stories.
Considering that Lovecraft had never been to Africa, his descriptions of places and tribes are quite detailed.
Lovecraft ventures into the dark recesses of colonial Africa, and the temptations and repecussions of meddling in things you shouldn't.He paints a wonderful portrait of a deeply flawed family, dealing with generations of oddity and madness culminating in a twist that whilst may be obvious in the modern world, I'm sure shook some of his contemporaries.Self-immolation is never done lightly I'm sure....
Hrm. Is it racist? Or is it REALLY racist?Or is this just a spin on Lovecraft's typical fish-people ancestry story that just so happens to be moderately offensive and racist? It's difficult to give Lovecraft the benefit of the doubt, given his persistent racism throughout other stories.I dunno. It's not a great story, but it's a quick read at least.
«Science, already opressive with its shocking revelations, will perhaps be the ultimate exterminator of our human species.»
Lovecraft does Joseph Conrad, without the boat bits. The perils of colonialism, interfering with ancient tribes and the repercussions of going a bit too native.
Рід Джермінів здавна вважався пришелепкуватим. Уейд Джермін, дослідник небаченої Африки, блукав джунглями Конго. На Чорному континенті також він познаймився зі своєю дружиною. Повернувшись додому, він розповідав божевільні речі, за що отримав квиток у психіатричну лікарню. Найбільше його непокоїли розповіді про сіре місто білих мавп, які він чув він африканських тубільців. Всі нащадки Уейда закінчили життя трагічно. Здавалося, божевілля і потвооність передавалися у спадок. Артур Джермін теж зацікавився містом мавп посеред джунглів. Під час експедиції йому пообіцяли надіслати давню реліквію цього дивного народу, але отримавши її, він перервава на собі рід Джермінів.
Although the tale is curious, involving myths from Congo, Africa, in an interesting hybrid mythology between human monkeys beings and stories about different generations of the same family, unfortunately maybe for some readers the tale can runs into a probable racism from the years in whitch this story was written: beginning of the 20th century. Lovecraft refers several times to people, monkeys, gods and subjects by the color of their skins: White or black. In addition to this supposed racism, this is really not one of the best tales of the author.
Un relato clásico de Lovecraft que ahonda en sus temáticas habituales: los dioses que habitan dormidos en los rincones más alejados del globo (a la espera de quien sepa despertarlos), y la degeneración racial producida en ciertos núcleos de población dedicados a la endogamia (generalmente entregados a los cultos de esos mismos dioses). Y su estilo también es inconfundible: la narración fría y externa, como si fuera el trabajo de un reportero que realiza crónica de los hechos. Todo eso resumido en unas pocas páginas. ¿Se puede dar más por menos?
An 18th century expedition in Congo, a collection of relics, the curse of a family over several generations, the search for the truth back in Congo, the tragic fate of intelligent gentlemen scholars turned madmen… Reads like the first chapter of a Preston & Child novel; excellent, especially for the detailed description of the family tree and the many delicious anecdotes.
Wasn’t expecting beastiality, but that’s what I got, lmao.Not at all what I expected, which was a little disappointing.Not terrible, but not great either. The majority is somewhat full setup. Good intro and ending though.
Erm. Umm. Hmm. Africa. White apes. Familial madness. I'm not even going to touch the racial issues here. And (view spoiler)[bestiality is a bad idea; hybridization doubly so (hide spoiler)]. Who knew?(Moving 2015 review to separate work to make room under collection for review, September 2017.)
This was a very disturbing tale, well I guess then it was supposed to be, but not in a good way. The story was riddled with Lovecraftian racism, and anti immigrant ideology (Jermyn- German). The telling of it was good, with adequate horror at the end.
Siguiendo con H. P. Lovecraft, "Hechos tocantes al difunto Arthur Jermyn y su familia" (Facts Concerning the Late Arthur Jermyn and His Family) es un relato corto e interesante, que narra la tragedia de la familia Jermyn relacionada con una civilización desaparecida. Sin embargo racista.
1.7Not terrible, but I didn't like itThe concept seemed rlly weird to me, and the style did not make up for it
Блєск!
7/10
"Life is a hideous thing, and from the background behind what we know of it peer daemoniacal hints of truth which make it sometimes a thousandfold more hideous."On a downer are we, Howie?
H.P. Lovecraft - Hechos tocantes al difunto Arthur Jermyn y su familia (1921)
Outstanding.
Toda la familia Jermyn condenada por los actos del tatarabuelo.
Pretty bleak, even for a Lovecraft short story. The mad history of the Jermyn family.
Short but intense
