https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34197014-trickster-s-choice
This was a good book in some ways, but messed up enough that I probably won't look for more in this series.
The plot was interesting and moved at a good pace (even if it was clearly part of a series and didn't really conclude, there was a nice ending).
Eventually I realized that the book wasn't gripping in any way, because I knew that the hero would save the day.
Yes, most books end up that way, but you want to be tricked into thinking that it might not, because that's what makes it exciting.
According to the trickster god Kyprioth who appears to her one night, this is intended to be an opportunity for Aly to make a difference in the lives of the noble family who has bought her as a slave.
Meanwhile, Kyprioth is making sure that Aly's family can't find her through magical means and interfere with his secret plans for the Copper Islands.I loved the intrigue in this book and Trickster's Queen!
Aly's an intelligent young woman and has a little bit of that Scarlet Pimpernel trope going, the capable person hiding behind a mask, that I love so much.
Buddy read with Castle!And my first reread O.O the last time I read this was like...
5 or so years ago.
High school/college.
Damn.----------Coming back into this book after 5+ years away, I had only a vague recollection of it.
I remembered Aly, and the Balitang sisters, and the fact that Aly wanted to be a spy, but not much else.
I think I spent half the book asking myself how in the hell Aly had been my least favorite MC up to this point, because she kicks ass.
For noble-born girls, they kick ass all on their own and I LOVE it.
Can't wait to reread Trickster's Queen!
So I didn't think I would like this-- yeah, yeah, Tamora Pierce trying to make Alanna more interesting now that she's in middle age, suprise here's her kid who's just as whacky and awesome, OMGs. But seriously.
And nothing like the Lioness books, which make them even better.
Ally is interesting, the development of old characters is awesome (Alanna would *so* be the neglectful mom too focused on work to pay attention to her kids, and George would be Daddy).
I like that I never feel like I'm reading the same story over and over with Tamora Pierce, and Aly is vastly different from Alanna, Daine, and Kel.- I loved getting to read about the Copper Isles and their people.
I think the book is, for the most part, properly focused on the people of the Copper Isles and what they want for themselves.- While I already said that it bothers me that this story is being told from the point of view of a white outsider protagonist, I do like that, again for the most part, Aly is working with the people of the Copper Isles as a helper more than as a leader.
04 February 2009The Trickster's Choice Alianne...Kyprioth...Nawat...Alianne (Aly) Cooper is the daughter of George Cooper, His Majesty’s Spy-master, and Alanna (Lioness) Cooper, King’s Champion.
Protector of Aly’s future and danger to her heart, he is both alluring and frightening.Sarai, Dove, Namair, George, Jonathan, Thayet, Alanna, Mythros, Winnie and Alan are just a few of the characters that will march into you heart through the heralding pages of Trickster’s Choice and lodge there, bringing mystery and excitement with them.
The "luarin"/white woman who is the novel's protagonist is kidnapped and sold into slavery and becomes ensnared in another country's revolution, largely through a wager with a deposed Trickster God. By being a foreigner and a slave, the protagonist sees and experiences the world from the eyes of the people who have been violently oppressed by the luarin ruling class for several centuries.
But the pivot point which makes her realize that she will stay to fight the revolution (which is, honestly, the climax of the story) is when the luarin ruling class of this country has proven itself so corrupt and bloodthirsty that they attempt to murder the whole family of honorable luarin that the protagonist has been sold to.
While I have issues with all of that, actually, I think Tamora was trying to write an honest child of a rich and famous family with a mother known for her strong personality and temper.
But it was still clumsy and not as fun to read, for me.Things that disappointed me as a long time fan:-Slavery discussion.
One of the things I loved best about Tamora's earlier works is that sex was treated like a real thing with different viewpoints.
It was so lovely to have appropriate but honest books in the 10-14 range that didn't avoid violence or sex, but didn't overdo it, either.-Romance.
My initial reaction: what happened to all the good, easy to pronounce names like Jon and George?
I seriously dislike a majority of the names in this book.
I know Tamora was probably going for something exotic with the whole Raka thing but it was just weird I had a hard time remembering who was who.As a girl power book, I didn't like it as much as Alanna.
Also, I know she wants to spy like her "Da" but seriously?
And the fact that Nawat keeps trying to "mate-feed" her is hilarious.Also, the cameo roles of Alanna and George almost made me want to cry.
Okay, I did like this.
But, the fact that it took me over a month to read it knocked off a star in my overall review.I've heard so much about Tamora Pierce on this site, that I figured this would be a no brainer...
Second, I get really tired of having to figure out names.
I'm not expecting everyone to be named Kelly or Larry or something easy like that...
(Okay, that's a lie, I can't forget Nawat.)I didn't hate it and I'll probably read the sequels.
Like when Ted McGinley joined Happy Days in Season 8.
I loved seeing the spying aspect of Tortall and the world for a change.
She easily makes friends with the people she is sold to and I loved how they came to trust her and treat her like one of their own.
I loved seeing the Kyprishian islands and learning about the culture there.
I love how Pierce created a unique world that has so many amazing facets.
I love these characters so much and if I could get like 10 more books about everyone that would be great.
I'll write a proper review very soon, I swear - but I'm on 10% battery at the library and so my time is running out!
(Fingers crossed for home internet so so soon...)Anyway first (rushed) impressions:Didn't fall as deeply in love with Aly as with Alanna or Kel Or Daine (or Daja, or Briar...
etc etc)She's still a Tamora Pierce character and therefore wonderfully written, fully fleshed out and likeable.Interesting that colonialism is tackled - and I think handled quite well for the most part, though unsure if there is a slightly colonialist-apologetic tone..?
have to think about it.The Goddess is almost a villian here!
Interesting...Nawat?
Crow-turned-boy-turned love-interest?
Interesting concept again...
The best part about re-reading my favorite books/authors now that I actually am active on GR is going back and writing reviews on why they mean so much to me.
***Side note I do recommend that you read all of the series in order, starting with Song of the Lioness so you don’t ruin the experience of meeting the new characters in every next seriesTO BEGIN if you want a solid fantasy story with intracate world building, great adventure, and GIRL POWER plz go to your local bookstore or library and get all of Pierce’s books right meow.
Do not ask me why it has taken me this long to read a Tamora Pierce book.
Some of Pierce's characters from her other Tortall novels kept making cameo appearances, and I felt left out, like I should have been more enthusiastic.
And I am reallllllyyy looking forward to Aly's identity reveal.
I kept looking for opportune moments in this book.
I would imagine situations in my head where Aly reveals her identity to her charges, and was frustrated that it hasn't happened yet.
I know.Overall, this will certainly not be the last Tamora Pierce book I read.
The main character's romance is boring.The book doesn't have much action, which would be fine, except that the politics are stereotypical.(For convenience sake, I'm going to refer to the majority pale-skinned rulers (Luarans) of the islands as "white" and the dark-skinned population native to the islands who were enslaved (Raka) as "black.") Worse than being boring, it's hard to get over the whole Tom Cruise/Last Samurai aspect.
Something that might be dealt with better later on is the fact that the two girls whom Aly is supposed to be guarding are bi-racial (of royal Luarin and Raka bloodlines), and due to an old prophecy, everyone thinks that these girls will be the ones to overthrow the yoke of Luarin (white) rule on the Copper Isles.
Leaning 3.5.Video Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OznVm...
aly was such an amazing character, though i did feel as if a lot of things were convenient for her.
i loved her sense of humour!
i also loved nawat.
his matter-of-fact speaking in crow thinking was absolutely hilarious at times, and i'm very keen on how he and aly are in book two.i'm speaking from a rather ignorant place here, though.
this book has a lot about race and slavery in their world, and i'm not knowledgeable to really speak out on if it was handled well or not.
Kids: be nice to your parents, they're doing their bestAlso kids: if you do accidentally run away from home and get caught in the slave trade only to find yourself in the middle of a complex family-political drama with divine interference, at least get a letter home to let them know you're having fun being a know-it-all in the jungleEveryone: humility is the foundation of all virtues.
Let's try and remember that please?
The political machinations are intriguing and at times unexpected, and the writing quality is top-notch.So why three stars?To quote another reviewer (Meg):"The plot basically hinges on a native [dark-skinned] people taking their land back from the white-skinned invaders.
Aly is clearly coded as a white girl (strawberry blond with green eyes), just like the white "luarin" who have colonized the island.
The raka god apparently couldn't rescue his own people without the help of a white girl.
This could have been a five-star book.
The novel starts off wonderfully and it is very obvious that Aly is Alanna and George's daughter.
After a short while of reading it is no longer your love for George and Alanna that fuels your wanting to learn more but instead your love for the intelligent and unique young woman who is slowly learning to be herself even when hiding in plain sight.You also meet two wonderful characters Sarai and Dove, along with many other related characters who I won't say too much about because it is just too much fun for you to learn while reading.
When these two characters interact with with Aly it is like magic.
It is always a relief to read a book with a strong female character, one that is also believably feminine as well.
There also is a trickster god who makes a deal with the main character, Aly, that if she keeps the girls to a family alive through the fall equinox that he will free her from being a slave and send her back home.
Aly ends up freeing herself in a very honorable way.
Just that I enjoyed this immensely, the characters and story are believable and griping and you really should run, not walk, and get a reserve on this in your local library!
2.5I really like all the other Tortall series so I was primed to enjoy this one.
Have to say I was very put off by the supremely self-assured manner of the main character.
Never a moment's uncertainty or self-doubt, or much introspection at all.
Not a good quality in a YA book, or really any story where you want to see some character development and growth.
I'll be reading the sequel, but just because I'm a fan of Tortall, and they are very quick reads.
Disappointed, to say the least, because I was looking forwared to what the author would do with a non-warrior female lead character.
Shit. Pure and utter. However, I'm reading the second book because I'm a masochist with a ridiculous desire to know whether the main character has pseudo-bestial sex with a dude who was formerly a crow.
I AM CRYINGMY HEART HURTSI CAN'T GET THE WORDS "DA" OUT OF MY HEADI DON'T REMEMBER FEELING THIS BROKEN THE FIRST TIME
3 1/2 Stars Well written but not what I expected.
This is the first book I've picked up in this long universe of books. I felt that it did a wonderful job of explaining things just enough to get me up to speed. The story was wonderful and the characters were amazing, both the good AND the bad characters. The pace of the book was just right and the setting was lush without brow beating the reader with it. On a completely different note: I haven't wanted to date a bird man so much since I saw Maleficent in theaters.
Kel is my favourite) but it is this books marvellous characters, tense and tight plot, and amazing setting which really drew me in.
Tricksters choice had a little bit of your typical YA finding yourself story, but what I loved about Alianne is that she is self aware.
It was interesting to be taken out of Tortall- we've seen a little bit of Carthark, Scanra and Galla in the other books, but the Copper Isles setting was seamlessly incorporated with the plot.
I loved the Copper Isles setting and the rich history deposed kings and queens it was given.This was an excellent book.
I just finished rereading this book because I'd basically forgotten everything about it and decided it was time to update myself on the world of Tortall.I changed my rating from a 4 star to a 3 star for a couple of reasons.
Honestly, the only reason I kept going was because I'd remembered the character Nawat being my favorite character and I wanted to remember why.I wasn't disappointed.
Nawat is still my favorite character.The second reason for the rating change was the writing.
It didn't bother me too much that she was so talented in everything, but it would have been nice to see a little bit more challenge in Aly's stay at the Copper Isles.
For some reason, the court stuff dragged on a little more for me, just like the gradual chipping away at the power of the palace seemed slow-paced to a lot of Aly's spies.
And it was interesting to see the dynamics in the two different races, where one had only a male inheriting and the other was ready to crown a queen.I was really surprised about the little ship outcome, (view spoiler)[ but it really adds a bit of grit to the story.
با خوندن این کتاب فهمیدم که تازه چقدر برای دلم آلانا(یا به قول ترجمه اشتباه انتشارات هرمس الینا) تنگ
