https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140528.Mrs_Pollifax_on_Safari
I love it when you read a series that becomes better as you move into it.
Better because you become more attached to the characters, more invested in their development, and pay more attention to the writing.
I find Dorothy Gilman's writing to have lovely poetic glimpses and thoughtful moments.
I also enjoy the specific time settings (cold war era) that nevertheless have a timeless feeling.
They are "dated," but in a good, comfortable way.In this book, I loved Mrs. Pollifax having a real romantic interest, but also not knowing for sure whether he was a good guy or a bad one.
An entertaining mystery with Mrs. Pollifax, the retired widow turned sleuth. It warrants 4 stars, but also an extra star for the location, Zambia, where I lived in the years in which the story takes place. Cairo Road and the Assembly building in Lusaka, Kafue National Park, the Kafue river… they all evoke fond memories.
Technology is of specific importance in this book, so of course the CIA and Mrs. Pollifax will always want to keep up with the times...Bishop uses a computer for the first time in this installment in the series...and references to many of the characters (Carstairs, Farrell) having been of service age during WWII in the first few books is now sort of "forgotten" since, we're approaching the 1980s and they just wouldn't have been the right age for that.This story also marks the appearance of Cyrus Reed, who, for some reason, I can't help but picturing as a rugged Christoper Plummer type.
Even the methods used by Mrs. Pollifax to solve the crime or ferret out the criminal are traditional without much emphasis on the use of gadgets.
For me she represents a perfect example of what Miss Marple would have been like had she lived in USA in the 1980s.Though not as well read in recent times as these books by Dorothy Gilman should be, the writer and her series does form an integral part of any crime fiction lover’s bibliography.
A thoroughly enjoyable and fast read, like most of the books in the series.
Of the five books in this series I've read so far, this one felt the shortest (and, at times, most rushed, least well developed).
I'm guessing by the time she got to this one (back when she was writing), Gilman realized she had a successful serial on her hands, and she felt less pressure to ensure that the individual books stood on their own (but, of course, that may simply not be the case).Ultimately, a quick, fun entertaining read (particularly if you enjoy the series) but ...
On safari, Mrs. Pollifax has the assignment of simply taking photos of everyone in the group, as the CIA thinks that a hitman might be using the safari to make plans for his/her next assassination. And then things happen.What I really like about Mrs. Pollifax is the fact that she never just accepts her situation. She always tries to come up with some kind of plan. Whether it works or not, at least she isn't just sitting there waiting to be killed.Another quick and fun read.
I continue to really enjoy this series.
In this book I appreciate that Mrs. Pollifax continues to grow and find her own grove in her spying activities.
I also appreciated the addition of a romantic element, and especially that this part of the book was included judiciously as an added element rather than taking over the overall story.
I also appreciate that the story gave me a few good chuckles but still also the suspenseful adventurousness I expect from these books.
I will definitely read the next in the series to see where it all goes, and because I really do enjoy these books.
2 1/2 starsThis was much too similar to the first book in the series for me to really enjoy it. Been there, done that.
On Safari with a too-limited number of suspects to be bad guys, Mrs. P sees lions, meets a new possible love interest, uses her smarts, and foils a few plots. We also know that, sadly refreshing to someone currently troubled by world politics, Mrs. P is horrified by apartheid and attendant racism. One of the villains, not the main one, is a truly execrable person, the only villain of the series I remember when I’m not reading the books.
simon goes out like a light!best of the series so farjust, wowi remember reading this way back in my elementary days, kudos to reader's digest condensed books and to my ma for bringing out the bookworm in mep45-46: she pointed to her suitcase next the door and he picked it up and led her out to the hotel drive.
I enjoy revisiting the Mrs. Pollifax books. I listened to this book on audible. The narration is excellent. Mrs. Pollifax is an older woman, who joined the CIA. She gets into dangerous situations, but she finds her way out of them, and helps save other lives. Mrs. Pollifax is a fun character.
Fifth in the series. One of my favorites because in it she meets her soulmate. Gives one hope.
This is a solid series. Light reading, but not too much filler- just entertaining.Zambian Safari, 1970's
This one had its moments, but, overall, it wasn't among my favorites.
There were things I definitely enjoyed in this book.
While I felt a love interest was unnecessary for Mrs. Pollifax (and may in fact, be detrimental in future books), I didn't mind Cyrus's character- fair, sturdy and broad, but open to an adventurous woman, though he is perhaps a tad too protective for my taste.
I had actually guessed the right guy all along and I thought the misdirect with the female nationalist was clever.
Overall this book just lacked in comparison to the others- it didn't fall together as nicely and was clearly more focused on introducing Cyrus than it was on the adventure at hand.
When I first saw one of the books in the Mrs. Pollifax series, I assumed it was another cozy mystery.
I really enjoyed the first few books in the series and I was eager to read more about this entertaining character.
I am really looking forward to reading the sixth book in the series, Mrs. Pollifax on the China Station, next.interesting quotes:"Africa at last, and not a dark continent at all, she thought exuberantly, staring at the strange world below.
Really, she thought, they looked just like bubbles in a thick stew on the stove." (p.
In a very unconventional way.
She makes things happen simply by being herself, as she does in this novel.Sent to Africa on safari to get photographs of every person involved with it (one of whom is supposed to be a master assassin), she is also directed to check up on an old friend of herself, Farrell from her first adventure, The Unexpected Mrs. Pollifax.
The safari has several suspicious characters, and when her first roll of film is stolen, she knows that the assassin truly must be there.
In this installment, Dorothy Gilman sends the lovable Mrs. Emily Pollifax into the heart of the dark continent.
With an all-expenses paid Safari to look forward to, how could she not accept, especially when there is talk of spying on an international assassin!
While there, she will see a plethora of native flora and fauna, as well as come to realize that the ruthless killer she is searching for may be even closer than she first suspected.
As love blossoms among the group and old comrades are sought out, this is one mission Mrs. Pollifax of New Brunswick shall never forget.
Mrs. Pollifax goes on a safari to take pictures, in hopes the CIA can find a potential assassin before he kills the president of Zambia. However, she gets kidnapped by Rhodesian terrorists, has her film stolen and meets Cyrus. Ferrell turns up again too. He's not as charming as Robin, but a good sidekick, even if he isn't meant to be a sidekick.
August 2016 reread -- I am increasing my rating from 3 to 4 stars. The Mrs. Pollifax books aren't great literature but they are a lot of fun and the best of them stand up well to rereading. Amazing how the world has changed since this was first published in 1976 - issues that were of great contemporary interest then are now of more historical interest. But the characters still shine :)
One of the best in this series. Mrs P not only gets her man - a serial killer who destabilizes nations - but she gets a man. This is the book where she meets Cyrus Reed. :) There are some interesting details about camera safaris and enough adventure to satisfy just about anybody. Lots of fun!
Second time around I really appreciated the scenery and the fast, evocative descriptions. I vaguely remembered who *didn't* do it although I had forgotten most of the details of the plot. I can't believe the artist missed the chance to draw the umbrella. At least they got the hat!
In this story, Mrs Pollifax is asked to photograph participants on a safari, one of whom the CIA believes is a notorious assassin.
She's also asked to look up an ex-CIA pal that the CIA would like to bring back into the fold, which gets her in all sorts of unexpected trouble, particularly as the safari goes along the highly unsettled borders of Rhodesia and Zambia.Dorothy Gilman wrote her books based on her own personal travel.
This may have been what Gilman perceived during her time there; personally, I think it would be difficult to put a reoccurring character, with gentle humour, in a situation like Zambia.
I typically do not give cozy mysteries a 5.
I love any book that can make me at least chuckle, even make me a little tense but at the same time teaching me something.
Mrs. Pollifax's adventures are usually out of the country (she's a "New Jersey girl").
Dorothy Gilman ddan excellent job of rolling Mrs. Pollifax's assignment in with the political and cultural history of the times and always adding local culture lessons into the mix.Another reviewer noted that this series just keeps getting better over time.
I must agree and this book was where I really saw it.
I love the character of Mrs. Polifax so I was happy to read another book in the series, but the story in this installment falls a little flat.
While Mrs. Polifax's ability to handle difficult situations is usually the highlight, I thought the best part of this book were the descriptions of the safari.
The one thing readers of the series can really look forward to is the reappearance of the character of John Farrell.
Overall, this is my least favorite of the first 5 books in the series, but I wasn't disappointed enough not to read the next one.
It's been years since I read the 4th book in the Mrs. Pollifax series.
I remembered liking the first books a lot, so I got the fifth book in the series from the library.
I didn't like this book, especially the beginning of it.
I did get interested in some of the character relationships, so I might try the next book in the series just to see what happens.
I have so many books on my to-read list that the next book has to be excellent or I won't continue with the series.
Mrs. Pollifax is sent by the CIA on a safari in the African country of Zambia with the sole charge to take photos of the other participants and bring them back as one is an elusive international assassin. Of course, the mission goes in a completely different, dangerous direction. Similar formula, but enjoyable. Love that the protagonist is a 60+, grey-haired, widow with grown kids who is pursuing her dream career as a spy - and finding romance along the way.
The normal life of Emily Pollifax is uprooted again as the CIA asks her to go to Zambia. On safari! All excited Emily heads of to take photos of all in her group. And then the adventure starts. I loved this one. Emily has a way of viewing life, and the world around her, with such possitivity, energy and interest that I find heartwarming. And, there is even a bit of a romance. Cecil Reed is introduces to us.
This is one of my favorites. It introduces us to Cyrus Reed and reintroduces us to John Sebastian Farrell from book 1. Lots of intrigue, fun, and excitement. Only a couple of minor missteps, but understandable because otherwise there's no way for the reader to find out what's happening. Very satisfying.
I gave this one 3 stars because of the abrupt ending. I liked the story and the characters were very interesting. I thought that throughout the book Emily seemed a bit less sure of herself due to having a love interest. I was relieved that she had regained some of her confidence and spunk by the end of the book.
