https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139246.S_Z
While this does much to underscore the particular kind of terrorism that is structuralist criticism, Barthes' reading of Balzac's Sarrasine is still a most beautiful insanity, and demonstrates the particular efficacy of the structuralist method exercised to the nth degree.Allow me some hyperbole: basically, once Barthes finished this, no one else needed to ever again attempt such a thorough structuralist reading. It is more or less the exhaustion point of the method.
cet ouvrage consacré tout entier à l'analyse d'une nouvelle de Balzac, Sarrasine, S/Z et ma maîtrise était basée sur lui. Mon étude tenait à aborder les cinq codes barthésiens dans deux films français. Les cinq codes barthésiens qui sont nommés herméneutique, sémique, symbolique, proaїrétique et culturel, accompagnant l'approche de sémiologie, faisaient appliquer une analyse riche sur les images visuelles et acoustiques.
This semiotic approach argues that words carry with them hidden signs that go much deeper than accepted definitions and so penetrates the psyches of the individual reader to the extent that he or she ascribes both intended and unintended meaning to a text.
In this way an individual reader may play a part in actually constructing the text and its meaning.
The words we use, and the context in which they are used, assume a vital importance that often we are unaware of.So these and other books by Barthes, Culler and Derrida established semiotics as a key part of our reception of texts.
"To critique"; "to dissect"; "to autopsy": the Barthesian text serves as a scalpel and scale with which Barthes qua critic can cut off and weigh the devices, symbols and meanings [SEM.
organs; part] of the unfortunate Balzac text "Sarrasine" [SEM.
The pattern of the slasher movie or Thunderdome: a plurality (under guise of simples: Barthes and Balzac; respective texts thereof) enters, a singularity (of pluralities; the readerly) leaves; economic-cultural treatise ["Damn bourgeois!": desire thereof, urging closing of pattern: satisfaction] ★★★ Stars are cool.
★★★★ SEM.
Excess of critique and analysis, psychology, post-structuralism/pre-deconstruction [de-con-structurally, not temp-orally], A-literal Frenchness: berets, baguettes, Barthes, Balzac.
Following the pattern of Propp's Morphology of the Folktale, Barthes reveals once and for all that the structuralist method (and I must underscore, as Piaget did, the word "method" here) is suitable for literary criticism.
All of the terminologies of the Russian forebears (the Formalists) can be found floating around in Barthes' codes, but each are highlighted in their turn, with the overall product of S/Z being more Freudian, more Lacanian, more Critical Theory than Structuralist in its culmination.As such, "terrorism" badly fits the reading.
A la page 96, il a le culot de dire "ceci n'est pas une explication de texte".
Je dirai en plus que c'est une tres bonne explication de texte.
Ligne par ligne il decortique le texte de "Sarrasine" une conte de Balzac.
Il demontre avec brio que "Sarrasine" est un chef d'oeuvre, complexe et efficace.Mais Mon Dieu!
Le gout de Barthes a ete excellent et il jugeait bien les oeuvres litteraires mais il vehiculait une methodologie de critique d'une folie absolue.Vous pouvez lire cet ouvrage et en rire avec plaisir.
An undeniably important piece of literary theory.
By breaking up Balzac's "Sarrasine" into lexias of varying length, Barthes reveals the way various narrative features and functions weave together to form a cohesive and symbolically resonant experience for readers (though it is not necessary for a reader to be aware of these workings for them to work).
I had to reread several parts of this text simply to glean a partial understanding or to understand how in the world a sentence could have five semicolons (not an exaggeration).
It's an important text and it's worth reading, but don't expect to "get it" on the first or second go.
Roland Barthes' S/Z provides an in-depth, perhaps over-analyzed, structural literary study of the Balzac short story "Sarrasine" (which I have reviewed separately; the Balzac story can also found in Appendix 1 of S/Z).
Influenced by the work of Saussure and Freud, Barthes (like many a critic and academic) finds perhaps more in Balzac than Balzac had ever intended, taking each line and matching it with one or more of five literary/cultural codes.
The critic imparts his interpretation on a work, influenced by his own experience, what he has read, etc.
The writer, meanwhile -- if he were to read the views of the scholar dissecting his work -- would ask, "Did I really write that?"
Barthes fait alterner des paragraphes numérotés en chiffres romains, qui présentent des propositions théoriques ou des bilans d'étape de l'étude, mais qui ne doivent pas être pris comme un découpage en chapitres — à la fin, il propose des tables variées offrant différentes constructions possibles de son travail — et le texte de Balzac découpé en "lexies" et commenté point par point.
this was not easy for me...i think most of it has vanished from my brain....i'm looking at this paper i wrote for a class...way way back...mr.
peabody sent me back in the wayback machine...and i can't for the life of me understand wth i was trying to say, although i suspect at the time, i had some kind of handle on it........the paper was trying to imitate S/Z for a critique of faulkner's the hamlet....heh heh!
An incredible, almost overanalysis of a fantastic short story by Balzac.
Through Barthes, we go line by line (or word by word) to understand why we react to the story in certain ways.
Sometimes I wish Barthes would push further - and he could.
Sometimes I wish he would just say A story is a story, that's that.
But by reading this you can see how your mind creates expectations, how the expectations are deflated and replaced with something perhaps grander.
Above all, I appreciate that Barthes says that those who don't re-read are forced to read the same text for the rest of their lives.
ONLY read this if you are into literary theory and are interested in the art of reading, re-reading, re-reading some more, and then still wondering what in the hell the author was trying to say.
he munched distinctions...
It is a good guide to see and have an idea on how to read a book.
Barthes is hilarious as he chops up the readerly text.
è di mostrare come ogni testo narrativo si basi su degli enigmi non esplicitati nel testo: il lettore, di fronte alla storia, desidererà continuare la lettura solo se verrà incuriosito, solo se verrà coinvolto da domande al quale il testo dovrebbe dare una risposta.
Il testo, quindi, è disseminato dai numerosi ritardi che tengono in vita la storia e posticipano la risposta (e il finale).
Allo stesso tempo, il testo si regge su di una serie di temi che entrano in dialogo tra di loro, formando la grammatica del testo.
L'interazione di questi temi produce ulteriore significato, il quale diviene la chiave interpretativa del testo.
Analizinin yapıldığı Sarrasine'i hem bu kitaptan önce ve kitabın ekler kısmında da bulunması, hem de içeriğine dair edindiğim bilgilerin ne kadarının bende kalıcı yer ettiğini görmek amacıyla iki kez okudum. Okhai sad fact: kitap benim için bir hayli yorucuydu.Zevk aldım mı: EVETKitap bana farklı, daha ince ve derin bir Sarrasine sundu mu: SUNMA' MIAncak yazıların -belki de yalnızca benim için- ağır bir üslupla yazılması okurken canımı çıkardı mı: YAZIKTIR Kİ EVET.O yüzden kitabı olması gerektiği gibi değerlendiremediğimi düşünüyorum, bu yaz tekrar okumayı deneyeceğim. Eğer görüşümden yana ilerleme kaydedebiirsem burayı da güncellerim.
შეიძლება სპეციფიკის ბრალია, სემიოტიკას, მითოლოგიას ან უბრალოდ კრიტიკას როცა ეხება საქმე კალმის დიდოსტატია, ეს ლიტერატურის თეორია ისე ხო საშინელებაა და ასე განზოგადებული და მილიარდი განსაზღვრებით ამოტენილი საერთოდ -_- არადა აქაც კი, ზოგჯერ ისეთი გესლიანია, მხატვრული ტექსტივით ჩამთრევი ხდება. მოკლედ, რას გაუგებ. პლუს, ვერ ვიტან ბალზაკს.
"This expansion is the very movement of meaning: the meaning skids, recovers itself, and advances simultaneously; far from analyzing it, we should rather describe it through its expansions, lexical transcendence, the generic word it continually attempts to join: the object of semantics should be the synthesis of meaning, not the analysis of words."
Totally cool lit theory. Had to reference YouTube for an explanation of the 5 Codes. Had to re-read all the funky French translations that should probably be updated for clarity. But the idea of close reading is awesome. This will be a classic in my library and much-returned-to example of lit criticism and the openness of a work which makes it a living book, worth re-reading.
Writer is a God. Critics are priests who decipher God.
Wth 스타일의 구조주의/후기구조주의/정신분석 비평. 굉장히 구체적이고 분석적인데 재밌음. 발자크 단편부터 읽고난 후 책을 읽는 것 추천.
honest to god this book was a fucking blast. the most fun I've ever had reading theory (although maybe that's not saying v much)
three stars and five question marks...
Digressive, confusing, enlightening, engaging, infuriating. All the things a good English lit book should be, with the all too usual thick paste of migraine inducing pretentiousness and up-his-own-assery. An absolute wave of minute, obsessive philosophies and digressions, with pretty explicit biases. As always, fun to poke the holes through - but often finding such holes resolves them. A pain. A big pain. But a necessary one. And not wholly unenjoyable, either.
I love book.
Я была студенткой третьего курса, когда мне ее подарил преподаватель философии, но прочесть я собралась ее только сейчас, когда ей стало суждено стать чем-то очень личным, как в свое время произошло и с работой Поля Вена об эпистемологии историиВ S/Z Ролан Барт анализирует одну новеллу О.
Именно наш читательский дискурс диктует то, как будет разворачиваться история.Ролан Барт говорит о том, что классический текст строится вокруг загадки - она формулируется, загадывается, на нее дают сначала ложный ответ, потом говорят полуправду-экивок, потом наконец разгадывают.
Мне кажется, что история в таком видении становится чем-то очень широким.
Having flipped to the back and knocked-over "Sarrasine" my main impression is that, after this and "La Duchess de Langais", I should really, really, really be reading more Balzac.EDIT: I have more-or-less finished this book, and my conclusion at this point is that while Barthes has some interesting ideas, most of the ones in this particular book have already found voice in the works of other guys.
Barthes writes well, puts forward his ideas in a clear and engaging manner, and presents an invaluable guide on how to read (and reread) a book.
I must say, though, that I didn't find it that difficult, but I had a certain understanding of structuralism and literary theory in general, before reading it.
The strength of this book is, obviously, that, even though it doesn't present anything which hasn't been said before or after, is an interesting guide to, or an example of, close-reading.
If stuff like that interests you, then I would definitely recommend reading it, but chances are that, if you are interested in literary theory and analysis, this book is a part of your syllabus, and reading it is compulsory more than anything.
I'm never going to be objective about this book, since it was the first full volume of capital-T Theory I read as an undergraduate--thanks Professor Morgenstern!--and rereading it helps me retrace my own steps from antitheoretical cretin to whatever slightly reduced imbecile I am now.
But, eh, come on everyone, this is really fun: a super-close reading of a short story in light of its various hermenutic codes, interspersed with wonderfully abstruse commentary on those codes.
(There's also all the castration business.) But, again, objectively delightful, so why bother being negative?
