https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13220.All_God_s_Children_Need_Traveling_Shoes
“And now, less than one hundred years after slavery was abolished, some descendants of those early slaves taken from Africa returned, weighted with a heavy hope, to a continent which they could not remember, to a home which had shamefully little memory of them.” - Maya Angelou, All God’s Children Need Travelling ShoesMaya Angelou was a wonderful woman who struggled against the odds and gave us a wealth of experience and wisdom to draw from, as well as a reminder of our history.
It was obviously a moving experience for Angelou to be in Africa, in a country that was newly free from colonialism, a country that was ruled by black Africans.
This was the first book in this year's Postal Book Swap F rotation, all secret until we've all seen all of them.
I couldn't stop reading!Maya Angelou is so engaging.
I didn't know about this period of Angelou's life, about her disillusionment with Martin Luther King, Jr., or that she was internationally known even in the 1960s/.
Can Black Americans find roots in Africa?
Or does their Americanness and pain-history separate them too distinctly?
Will she find acceptance and belonging?This book feels like an ancestor itself, to books like Americanah and Homegoing.Thanks Kim!Date read is February 17, 2017.
And now we come to Maya Angelou's fifth autobiography; All God's Children Need Travelling Shoes.
If you've ever felt insecure at some point of your life, found yourself in a constant battle between comforting faith and doubtful denial, fought for a cause with the realization that you have little chance to win, had to prove yourself to people you don't owe them shit, then Maya's works were made for you.
Two great people gather together in Ghana: Malcolm X and Maya Angelou.__________
Maya Angelou's Autobiographies:
1) I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.2) Gather Together in My Name.3) Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas.4) The Heart of a Woman.5) All God's Children Need Traveling Shoes.6) A Song Flung Up to Heaven.
As soon as I flipped through the pages and saw Maya Angelou's reference to Liberia (my birth land where I spent most of my adolescence), I knew I had to buy and read.During the American Civil Rights Movement of the 1960's, a group of black Americans weary of the racial tensions, left America headed for West Africa.
I was moved by another memoir she wrote, "Letter to my Daughter," but this book was a transformative read that reached for my attention.The book starts in 1962, when Angelou is on her way to Liberia with her 19-year old son.
I read this book in Ghana-- the site of the majority of the story.
It didn't hurt that I was on the Legon University campus when I began this journey.
Angelou accurately portrays the African-American experience when we make that journey of discovery to Mama Africa.
Most importantly though, she discovers herself and realizes her own journey.
This book is powerful, and people are just "straight up tripping" if they don't give it 5 stars.
Read it, imagining that you are on her journey.
If you haven't been to Africa yet, or lived through the fervent 1960's -- allow her to take you there.
Maya Angelou joins a community of 'Revolutionist Returnees' - African Americans/Negro Americans on their quest to explore, understand and aid the Motherland in any way they can.
I was glad that Maya Angelou was living with a community of African Americans, but interacted mostly with Africans throughout her stay in Ghana - there was a good balance.
My favorite part of the book is when Malcolm X arrives in Ghana and Angelou along with the other 'Revolutionist Returnees' do their best to make him feel at home, arrange various talks for him and even get him to meet president Kwame Nkrumah.
I've got nothing but love, respect and admiration for this woman. Brilliant writer, exceptional human being and humorous lady. What a combination of brilliance. I recommend all of her books to anyone and everyone. There's something in there for all of us. ❤️
And the story goes on. This one was a wonderful eye-opener; so much to learn about the differences between "real" African and American-African character. Can't wait to read the next one, though I suppose Maya is going back to USA. This book I'm sure I'll read again!
Wow. What an eye-opener. Fascinating, inspiring and beautifully wrought.
I give this five stars because Maya is such an incredible story teller. She wisks you along like a boat on a fast-moving current. She expresses both loathing and yearning for America, and I am torn between understanding and disappointment at her negativity towards the nation that fought the civil war and still strives to overcome 400 years of slavery.
Not much happens in this, Maya lives in Ghana and has a job, she meets people and feels discontent. I think maybe it’s about living somewhere where you don’t feel you belong, she does write beautifully but this seemed like it could have been a chapter in an autobiography rather than needing its own book.
Engaging autobiographical story of her time living in Ghana in the 1960's. In her lovely style, she compares her experience of black Americans with the African experience and how they differ but have similarities. She tells of the fascinating people she meets there, including a visit by Malcolm X and meeting the President of Liberia. Her piercing insights into herself are always enlightening and every one of her autobiographies have been awesome.

What a wonderful book! I love Angelou's autobiographies. They are so human, they make you laugh but then on the next page you are sobbing. A fantastic storyteller. Anyone who is or has lived in another country will love this book.
It's honest, it's light-hearted, it's contemplative and still it manages to reflect on one person's struggle with history and it's cruelties. The first one I've read in Angelou's autobiographical sequence, but definitely not the last!
This is a book of exquisite story paired with exquisite writing. In this volume of Maya Angelou's memoir series, she goes to Africa in her search for home, discovering her roots and understanding her own differences. Her son grows up and prepares to lead an independent life.
Anyone who has been displaced from their country or culture of birth or feel a sense of belonging to a place other than the place they are in, will find a lot to identify with in Maya's account of living in Africa as an African American.
The beauty of the African culture and the pride of its citizens is very beautifully illustrated by Maya.The book does weave in a lot of people she met in her short stay in Africa, but among those, only the native Ghana folks are memorable.
Tremendously inspiring read. Happy I read it when I was in Ghana.
(19)I doubted if I, or any Black from the diaspora, could really return to Africa.
How to confess even to one's ownself, that our eyes, historically customed to granite buildings, wide paved avenues, chromed cars, and brown, black, beige, pink and white-skinned people, often ached for those familiar sights?
(120)Many of us had only begun to realize in Africa that the Stars and Stripes was our flag and our only flag, and that knowledge was almost too painful to bear.
In this autobiographical book, set in the early 1960s, Maya Angelou is stranded in Ghana after her son has an accident.
As her son heals and she starts acclimating to her new environment, she slowly begins to learn how in Ghana, where skin color is no longer an issue, she is still discriminated upon as a Black American.
It seems like an entire village of people, those that love that child, yet they all made the journey to the city, bearing gifts of fruit and other goods, to thank Angelou, reminding me that we all belong somewhere, and that there are cultures where family union can still be counted upon.
Angelou, for those who don't remember, begins with her (frankly self-centered) response to her son's horrible injuries in an automobile accident in Ghana.
She pulls no punches, detailing criticism from her son--laying in a hospital bed in a body cast, but staying strong--her salvation by an acquaintance who reluctantly steps in as "brother," pushing her back on track, and her own self-criticism and struggle--successful--to take stock and forge ahead in a new direction.
Her descriptions of life in the Black American, "Revolutionist Returnee," community in Ghana--the struggles to be accepted, the connections and distinctions between the Americans and Africans, the surprises, joys, and heartbreaks, are lyrically real.
After the Orlando shooting that has our country reeling, I needed to get out of my head.
And I needed to get out of my heart.
I don't know how to articulate in any fashion what this book made me feel that wouldn't come off vulgar in comparison to the words of Dr. Angelou.
We were given a brief glimpse of Dr. Angelou's life.
Of her time in Ghana.
Of the time immediately following her son's accident.
The story was a journey into Ghana and a journey into her mind.
After Orlando, I wept.
We miss you Mother Angelou
This is the next for me - fifth in the series of seven written by this extraordinary woman.
The title derives from a Negro Spiritual, and describes Angelou's years spent in Ghana in the early 1960s.
She became part of the ex-pat community and felt both at home because of her ancestry and apart because she was immediately recognized as a Black American.
Angelou felt they did not understand the conditions of race relations in America.I enjoyed this book and the adventures she describes as she discovers Ghana.
But I feel the best of the series so far was the first, "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings."
I now feel terrible that I've never really read anything by Maya Angelou before -- I always just sort of thought of her as someone who was important but I assumed the sort of person who would be asked to read a poem at a presidential inauguration wasn't an author I'd really like.
I was VERY wrong -- not only is her story powerful and well written, but she is a kick-ass woman as well, a single-mother in her early thirties traveling unaccompanied through Africa in the fifties and sixties.I really like the part when Malcolm X visits Ghana, as reading Angelou's account of him adds a new depth and lively humanity on top of his autobiography.
i hadn't read anything by maya angelou until this book, and it made me want to read more.
the book chronicles her time in ghana and i liked hearing about her identity struggles and actual events that happened during her time there, as she navigated between her black american identity and her identity as a resident of ghana - what to change and what to adapt.
it was a privilege to hear of her numerous conversations with expats while living in africa and their own stories about their experiences, particularly of her encounters with malcolm x.
Another great read by Maya Angelou.
Most of her books are biographical.
this one focuses on the two years she lived in Ghana.
She was there in the early 1060s.
Her son Guy was 17 when they first came there.
He was involved in a very serious car accident shortly after graduating from high school.
Ms. Angelou then spent the next two years.
Learning about the people who lived in Ghana, dated interesting men.
She writes about what it is like to be an African American in Africa.
She embraces her African roots.
A nice read.
I learned a bit more about this fascinating talented woman.

This book reminded me very much of Richard Wright's "Black Power." The accounts of Black Americans returning to Africa and trying to make sense of their place in their ancestral home are fascinating to me. Angelou provides many insights and riveting stories about her time as an exile in Ghana. In particular, her recounting of Malcolm X's visit left me breathless. I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Maya Angelou's memoir, her delicate position as an outsider, both in the western world (being a Black) and in the African world (being an American), her interactions with controversial figures such as Malcolm X and President Kwame Nkrumah. Her attachment to her native land Ghana, and a load of interesting details about her traumatic childhood.
You can never get enough Maya...a beautiful story to remind it is up to us to make our way in this world
