https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44453.Complete_Stories
Each, with its furnishings, might one day be moved intact to the American wing of some museum, labeled, 'Room in Dwelling of Well-to-Do Merchant, New York, Circa Truman Administration'; and spectators, crowded behind the velvet rope which prevents their actual entrance, might murmur, according to their schools of thought, either, 'Ah, it's darling!' or else, 'Did people really live like that?'"and of course, Parker's trademark lines are present as well:"It was a big factor in Dr. Langham's success that she had the ability to make wet straws seem like sturdy logs to the nearly submerged."(the best of these one-liners, I think, was in her piece titled "Men I'm Not Married To", where she describes each man in detail and reflects on their relationship; for Lloyd, however, she writes simply, "Lloyd wears washable neckties.")But there's more than just funny short stories ridiculing the young, rich, shallow people that Parker apparently surrounded herself with.
Dark humour, drinking humour, sharp social observation – from racism (Arrangement in Black and White, 1927) to social climbers (“The steps in social ascent may be gauged by the terms employed to describe a man's informal evening dress: the progression goes Tuxedo, Tux, dinner jacket, Black Tie.” – The Game).
The introduction by Regina Barecca is an interesting example of revisionism, presenting Parker as the unsung Great American Novelist Short Story Author.Stories I liked best (I leafed through the last section, sketches):* Big Blonde – a really good, depressing story of a Chandleresque female.
This collection of short stories is the editor's attempt to prove she deserves critical acclaim and inclusion in the male-centric literary canon, and I, for one, am sold!Most of the included stories were written in the 1920s-40s, and they are an illuminating peek at the prevailing pretensions of the time - she skewers societal affectations as well as the battle between the sexes (and the unfortunate lack of open communication between them).
As the editor notes, "When Parker goes for the jugular, it's usually a vein with blue blood in it."
Amusing, certainly, and the stories are evocative of their time, but they tend to the repetitive and the snide, somewhat sour humor grates eventually.
Pero al final he acabado leyendo las 737 páginas de una vez, porque nadie escribe cuentos como Dorothy Parker.
Parker no se muerde nunca la lengua, critica sin piedad a sus personajes, y la mayoría de veces es cruel, pero no adopta el punto de vista superior del censor, porque nos deja a entender que sabe que en el fondo todos somos así, en mayor o menor grado.
Es que nadie escribe cuentos como Dorothy Parker.
I read the intro last, and it had something to say that I had kind of started thinking about myself: people ("small" or "narrow"-minded critics) consider Parker's stories to be about "small" or "narrow" topics, but that's almost beside the point.
They're about a small social world and a limited number of people, but they're about so much more.
And so they're not small.
They're about how people deal with their circumstances, and the stories are timeless.
I don't know that that makes me like people any better, but it makes me appreciate the sharp observational skills of Dorothy Parker.
I was oddly disappointed in this.
Not in the quality of the writing, which is superb.
The author sets out to accomplish a task, and the technique of writing is bent and twisted to her will, achieving her vision exactly as her mind's eye must have seen it.
My complaint is simply with her intended effect.
I didn't enjoy it.
So it's great writing, but I didn't care for the message.
She was such a profoundly unhappy person, tormented by life's whims, being a women in the times she lived, the spectre of depression in an age without silver ribbons, and the cliched but never unfailingly tragic alcoholism she shared with so many of her profession.
Ms. Parker's work, whether essays, stories or poetry are humor born of sadness, filled with sarcasm and pity for the human condition.
"Big Blonde" shows us how women who made bad choices about men may have lived in the restrictive 1930's, but also calls to mind some of the bad choices celebrities make so messily in public today.
Parker makes even the very private hell of a woman waiting for a man's telephone call both snarkily funny and shamingly familiar.
Unlike James Thurber, Ms. Parker breathes no atmosphere of innocence.
Her stories are informed by the hypocrisy, stupidity and ignorance of the human race.
Mrs Parker died , age 73, in 1967, on the cusp of Women's Lib. Rebecca Barreca, in an excellent intro, notes that her stories depict the effects of economical and spiritual poverty upon vulnerable women who received no education about the "real world" beyond fables grazing love & marriage - fables reflecting the 20s.
Even though people don't change (much), the Parker viewpoint , I find, represents past decades, which is why George S Kaufman said, "Satire is what closes on Saturday night." Her writing, while always wickedly smart, has a "needinessy" and middle-brow melancholia that seems narrow today.
By contrast Dawn Powell, who died unheralded, age 68, in 1965, continues to have a blazing modernity.
Actual Rating: 3.5 stars
[1924] Really enjoyed her stories. Loved her writing - smart, edgy, funny. Much of it felt very modern. The relationships, feelings, conversations that she explored made me feel that not much has changed in the last (almost) hundred years. Enjoyed it more for having read a few stories at a time, rather than all at once.
Marvellous.Some of her stories seem boring and repetitious, but then she manages to come up with a new, mocking view of her selfish, narrow-minded protagonists.My only warning to the Dear Reader would be that the pieces at the end (discs 16 to 18, for me) seemed more like writing exercises with a closing clever twist, not so much actual stories.You could perhaps skip "The Lovely Leave," which is in fact too repetitious.
Or the Dear Reader could listen and attempt to answer the question: If the wealthy Caucasian writer-narrator presents herself as completely inept, does this justify a story mocking a servile African-American servant?
Who knew that people were thinking they were clever and saying "absotively, posilutely!" in 1921?A selection: "Mrs Hough suffers from hallucinations.
I started reading this book at random and was drawn in by the wit and insight into the psychology of the chronically pretentious. The story that captured my interest was about an inane woman who had just returned from a 3 week trip to France and kept "accidentally" saying words in French, because she had apparently forgotten English, her native language. I like the cynical depictions of the completely fake America in the 50s and 60s, but her stories got a little redundant after a while.
Dorothy Parker is one of the best writers I've ever read. She picks her words deliberately, choosing people and situations that will most effectively pull apart any positive construction of human relationships that you've ever built.At her least harmful ("The Waltz") she entertainingly teases and pokes fun, a pastime at which she excels. However, twenty minutes of reading her in a sitting consistently made me despair of all society.
I started reading this a couple of years ago, but put it down for reasons I can't recall. The stories are such products of their time; it's difficult to relate to them. But Parker's snarkiness transcend any era. Working on plowing through tot eh end this time 'round ...
Parker's words, while at times reeking of Jazz Age, Depression Era, War-Time, and Cold War stylings as the decades roll by, capture something uniquely American coupled with a crass elitism played by characters who seem to be well aware of the meaninglessness of their lives, yet find nothing else worth living for.It is fascinating to read this chronologically arranged collection cover-to-cover as we witness Parker's brilliant frenetic, youthful style of 'The Garter, 'The Telephone Call,' and 'The Waltz' as it gives way to a more slow burning feel which dwells more in detail.
Parker's characters are primarily New Yorkers and upper or upper-middle class. They are sad, lonely, and bored. They don't know how to really communicate with others and this causes many of the problems in the stories.That being said, Parker resists creating caricatures. The people in these stories are real and in some cases I feel like I know people just like them. Despite the dating of some of the events in the stories, these people still exists in the same form. That makes these stories eternal.
The woman who wrote the introduction to this collection said that many find her wit wonderful; those who find it off putting are those that Parker wouldn't have wanted to associate with in the first place.
I used that as a whip to force myself to read more of these, and then I remembered: I don't have to like everybody, and they don't have to like me.First of all, reading her stories as a collected work, here is a summation:(On alcohol)Her "You were so drunk last night; you shouldn't drink anymore."Him "You're right, of course.
Not in any crowd I want to associate with.
Never having read Dorothy Parker, I decided the only thing to do was to read her work...her entire short story collection, because that's how I roll.
It was a lot of Dorothy Parker, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing.
She mocks greed, interactions between the sexes, and, the mean and dirty ways of, what we now term, "frenemies." Still, Parker's prose is as sharp as it is bitter--do not look for a cheerful view of human nature nor, in most cases, even a particularly hopeful resolution.
While I may have described Parker as a bitter pill to swallow, I also know I'd return to her stories with delight.
Despite my romantic nature, I am also a cynic at heart.
Behind the fuzzy warmth of emotional connection and romantic bliss I generally sense or anticipate wretched heartbreak.
Her insights on 1920's white liberals are stunning and often remind me of the same self-proclaimed white liberals and the tensions surrounded the current 2008 Presidential race.Parker's work has aged very well, and her cynicism and world-weariness has a frighteningly modern quality that shows that cynicism and humorous pessimism is not necessarily a contemporary novelty.
Dorothy Parker is one of the greatly underrated authors of the twentieth century. During the same time that Scott Fitzgerald was writing about the very rich he stood in awe of, Parker was writing hilariously scathing portraits of these same people. It seems hard to believe the two were writing about the same society at the same time.These stories are purely delightful and often hilarious.I would highly recommend this book.
Dorothy Parker was quite adroit at writing stories about a certain class of people, frequently struggling with the same things - divorce, drink, etc. The problem with this collection is that these people are quite wearying, so that one big tome filled with them is exhausting. I would recommend reading this, but not one story after another. You simply lose patience with the characters.
Anyone looking to read something classic, but lighter than most of the vastly serious greats needs to pick up Dorothy Parker's short stories. Often hilarious, sometimes heartbreaking and just about always enjoyable her stories make a quick read to breeze through on the beach, the subway or on a lunch break.
Fun, witty, feminist, and antiracist, Parker's collection paints a candid and comical view of New York in her time. Although the writing is enjoyable, it is at times very timely, and seems stuck in her New York. Because of this, I wouldn't know where to place it in today's readership except as historical. Hope that makes sense.
pithy vignettes of obnoxious people. becomes tedious if you read the stories together as a string--you are introduced to dolt after wanker, know them for 5 minutes, and then move on to the next daft character. it has the collective effect of being at a wretched cocktail party where you want to put all the guests on mute.
Another book I'm never going to finish reading in one session. Parker's stories are clever enough, but not exactly great... and they're mainly all the same. They get very monotonous if attempted all at once. I'll go back to this from time to time and eventually get to the end... though it may take me the rest of my life.
Probably the best short stories written. Although she writes between the 1920's-1940's, the stories are refreshingly honest and satyrical, which was extremely bold for a female writer in that time period.
Made me want to drink during Prohibition.
Stories about rich people in the '20s & 30's. She thought the "real" world was the one outside of love & marriage.
In the vein of PG Wodehouse and Oscar Wilde, a brilliantly funny account of the vacuous lives of the upper class.
