https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2714607-the-ascent-of-money
Imperialism: The Darwinian Justification Ferguson contends that today’s financial world is the result of four millennia of economic evolution. It is very important to the aims of this book that this metaphor is accepted. Ferguson looks at this evolution of money into the complicated financial ecosystem of today. He explores how money mutated into new tools/organisms and acquired characteristics that allowed it to meet the needs of its users/demands of its environment better. The tools that help
Imperialism and Globalization: The Justified CulminationNow we come to the crux of the narrative — Economies that combined all these institutional innovations - banks, bond markets, stock markets, insurance and property-owning democracy - performed better over the long run than those that did not, because financial intermediation generally permits a more efficient allocation of resources than, say, feudalism or central planning.
It's an excellent day when intelligent historians do not stoop to "our" level to be understood: Ferguson makes his point without relying on that pitfall of historical writing: making history uncomplicated.And yet, oh, and yet.
The last chapter "Chimerica" is one reason to read the book (or at least that chapter) as it portrays a clear-sighted analysis of the US-China situation, which is becoming more intricate and dangerous each day.It is a minor but slightly important book, more about finance than financial history.
Then again, maybe finance is financial history.I think it's time for some Naomi Klein.
What the book really is is a straight history of the above-board financial markets, and to that extent it's a useful and largely enjoyable read, covering the move from barter to coin, and from coin to virtual funds, and from virtual funds to algorithmic trading.
(One other seeming blind spot: if I'm not mistaken, the author seems to have a disinclination toward companies that are not publicly traded.)Also: I cannot recall reading a non-fiction book recently with less of a thesis.
If, as the author states, complex technological innovations haven't actually supplanted earlier modes like barter and loan sharks, then how can the comparison to mankind be made?
This is a very informative, and convincing book, about the history, and the need for money.
I say that despite the fact that I disagree with the author's conviction that capitalism is one of humanity's greatest achievements, and that the price of progress is more than worth it, no matter who loses out.
Also despite the fact that I have heard that the author is quite an arrogant individual.
But this book is a thorough and comprehensive account of the various milestones that have taken place in the history of money.
I issued the stock to build a company, I have built that company, that company is going well – why should the stock price bother me at all?Look, I know I’ve got this arse about face in some way – and that is fine – but my point is that I would have expected to come away from this book understanding how this sort of thing works – and I didn’t.
All the same, it would be nice if someone, somewhere could point me to a book that explains this stuff in a way that even I can understand.The bits of this book that were particularly good were mostly towards the end when he started discussing behavioural economics.
Unlike 'War of the World' - a mammoth retelling of the horror of the 20th century (which I felt had an impersonal and rushed air, as though Ferguson had relied too heavily on his massive, globe-spanning team of researches from a host of universities), 'Ascent of Money' is Ferguson really dealing with what comes naturally to him, as an expert in both the early modern bond markets, quantitative finance, the inner workings of the House of Rothschild (as he should, he wrote the book(s) on them), the hubris behind Long Term Capital Management, and every other complicated aspect of the markets.
(Elsewhere I've read of the similar merits of educating women.) But even in microfinance exorbitant interest rates have arisen, supposedly as the only way to make money on a multiplicity of tiny loans.Although "Safe as Houses" presents the risk to capitalism, the author never puts together in a coherent way that classic liberalism, in the sense of absolutely free markets, sans any sort of planning or mitigation of the travails of "the masses," would lead to just the sort of uprising he describes as having happened back during the Great Depression.
People must again learn to work, instead of living on public assistance".Cicero - 55 BCSo what have we learned in 2 Millennia?
Evidently nothing?Ferguson argued that financial markets are like the mirror of mankind, revealing the works of how we function in the world.
financial markets are analogous to a Darwinian system where institutional mutation and natural selection processes play important parts.
"Things just happen" (the "drift" of random mutation) and "Things are made to happen" (the "flow" of the natural section) generate unpredictable dynamism in the system.Overall, this is an excellent book with good contents and good writing style.
I am a big fan of Niall Ferguson and this book certainly added to my appreciation for both his skill as a writer and his knowledge of history, especially financial history.
After spending the early portion of the book on the history and development of currency, this book becomes a brief look at the origins and development of the major financial institutions (banks, commodity exchanges, hedge funds, insurance companies) and categories of assets (bonds, stocks, real property, options and derivatives).
A well researched, well written survey of financial history and an interesting read.
"The Ascent of Money" by Niall Ferguson explores the development of financial systems - primarily European systems from about the year 1400 onward and the United States system since the Civil War. There is major focus on the US economy in the late 20th and early 21st Centuries. This book is just OK - not bad but not that good either. Rating: 3 out of 5 stars Notes: Audiobook: Narrated by: Simon Prebble Length: 11 hours and 27 minutes Unabridged Audiobook Release Date: 2008-12-12 Publisher: Tantor Audio
I expected this book to give a good insight (as opposed to a comprehensive history due to its length) on how the monetary and financial systems developed throughout history.
The political and economic doctrines of the author are obvious in the reading of the book, as pointed out by other reviews.
The description of the economic policies during Pinochet's dictatorship and Friedman's Chicago Boys is an example.
The rigid doctrinal policies of the Chicago Boys only generated one of the worst Chilean economic crisis in 1982.
This book is and easy read and has some interesting facts and stories, but lacks the depth and insight of a good historical book.
As you read this book, you may find yourself going back ten years when it seemed likely the financial world might end.
Each chapter takes on a different issue: money, the bond market, stocks, housing, and political economy.
Historical examples are picked a bit at random...obviously we don't see the entire history of the subjects at hand.
I think this is a smart way to write about financial history...even if it does lend to a bit of incoherence.
As Nassim Nicholas Taleb has written, we often write history with the retrospective bias, making sense out of the nonsense of historical stuff.
The most interesting thing about this book which I felt is the blend of William Shakespeare play The Merchant of Venice to explain the rise of loan sharks and development of loan term or "usance".
Being a Trade Finance professional I never thought of development of loan term/tenor which we use on daily basis.
Most of the finance which we do covers the shipment period i.e., from the time of loading to discharge....not even once i have thought of the tenor which is used in William Shakespeare play The Merchant of Venice a typical Trade Finance Loan.Great book.
Αρκετα ενδιαφερον!
This book described the development of modern finance and banking system, staring from Renaissance Italy, the Medici family, the rising of the Rothschild family after the Waterloo, all the way down to the current crisis triggered by the sub-prime mortgage meltdown.
It is especially interesting to notice the similarities of all the bubbles in history, from the famous Dutch Tulip Mania, British South Sea bubble, French Mississippi Bubble, Great Depression, S&L crisis, and finally, the current financial meltdown.
Interestingly, a recently Atlantic Monthly article penned by the (in)famous Henry Blodget, "Why Wall Street Always Blows It", contemplated on this very topic and concluded that bubbles are unpreventable.
Dude has a keen eye for macro history.
I was listening to this audiobook on a CD player, and my husband said, "Is a man with a plummy English accent explaining the plot of Mary Poppins to you?" (Yes. You may not remember the part where the little boy wants tuppence to feed the pigeons and inadvertently triggers a bank run.)Harvard history professor explains the origins of not only coins, paper money, and electronic money, but also stocks, bonds, and insurance.
The Inca thought silver was beautiful and knew how to make it into things, but they couldn’t figure out why the Spaniards wanted mountains of it.• Spain extracted so much silver from the Americas that they inadvertently lowered the price of silver substantially.
The "Ascent of Money" had a subtle right-wing/conservative bent to the point that as the events became more recent, I found more and more questionable "facts" and right-wing "talking points".
If the parts I personally have researched and have knowledge of are questionable, I am finding I cannot trust the rest of the book.This book is a fun read but given the problem with some of the facts and analysis in the 20th and 21st century parts, I don't think I'd recommend this book to others.
I came by this book via finding the PBS 4-part series up on pbs.org, which I have recently discovered as a goldmine of missed NOVA and Nature shows, free to watch online.
I watched the TV shows first, and picked up the book from the library to see if it would add depth.http://video.pbs.org/video/2246958992if you want to check them out.I am quite weak on financial history, so this book made an excellent beginning remedial course.
(I find the bond market particularly mysterious, although even that paled when I hit the parts about hedge funds.) The early history was the most graspable -- the past 30 years, less so.
Most people - or at least me (I?) - know this guy as a purveyor of some outrageous opinions (Keynes was wrong, because he was gay, or something?) and partisan talking points, and his questionable approach to fact-checking was recently highlighted by Jonathan Chait at New York magazine.
Ferguson shows how banking and credit came about, how sovereign bond markets affected the rise of nations (and their recalcitrant, spendthrift kings), and the rise of speculative bubbles, including the 2008 mortgage crisis.
For those who don't know Ferguson he's a prolific but right wing historian who is a regular face on British TV's channel 4 with series like EMPIRE, AMERICAN COLLOSUS and THE THIRD WORLD WAR.
Ergo, attempts by many Left wing critics to sleight Ferguson (as in New Left Review a few years back) usually fail because they can't accept Ferguson's correct observation (which he can't explain) that colonial peoples are always worse off under their indigenous bourgeoisie than under British colonialism.
nhờ có quyển này mà nắm được khái niệm cơ bản về trái phiếu, cổ phiếu, bảo hiểm, quỹ phòng hộ, bất động sản, Trung Quốc, Soros.
Ця книжка торкається двох проблем - грошей та загалом історії економіки світу.
Звичайно основний акцент звертається на явища та історію Західного світу.
Автор описує коротко про становлення грошей та розвитку таких інституцій як банки, страхові фонди, хедж-фонди.
Описані становлення таких відомих сімей як Медічі та Ротшильди.
Висновки книжки очевидні - світ фінансів є вкрай складним і не можна робити ставку на щось одне, незалежно чи це є просте накопичення грошейчи скупівля/продаж акцій, облігацій та нерухомості, а також не потрібно забувати про те як вразливі світові ринки від певних змін у різних місцях нашої планети.
A fascinating, well-written history of the financial markets covering the Medicis and Rothschilds, the Dutch East India Company, establishment of the banking system, the stock market, insurance and risk, property and property ownership and the 2008 financial crisis. The topic is somewhat dry, but relevant and interesting nonetheless.
Following 'Empire of Wealth' I decided to try and grow my knowledge a little bit on the subject of finance.
I'm a financial and economic newbie, having only read Empire of Wealth and little else to increase my understanding of the subject.
While this is sold as a 'financial history of the world' in fact this book reads more like a history of each aspect of finance - insurance, markets, bonds, etc.
Again, if you have general understanding of all of this stuff and a mind of numbers, you could come out of this book like a King.
There are definitely some interesting moments in The Ascent of Money and Niall Ferguson has done some outstanding research, but these moments are pushed to the side so Ferguson can remind the reader of his own personal philosophy on the history of finance: It is an almost organic, evolutionary process that is inherent in man, and financial concepts such as debt, the bond market and the stock market are, in his own words, 'mirrors of the human psyche'.
Also, the book itself should not be seen as an introduction or examination of these concepts, even though the author stated that it should be.
The is a very interesting take on the role of money in world history. Ferguson tracks the evolution of the financial world right up to the present economic crisis. He writes very well and weaves in how other historic events were triggered or enabled by changes in how money works. Even if one challenges some of the opinions in the book, it is very thought provoking. Given everything that is going on around us these days, this is an excellent read. Highly recommended.
Review shall be posted "really soon".This is exactly a kind of book wherein:1) you have to read more books;2) you must read more books;3) there is a need to read more books,because of its highly annotated and referenced texts. The endnotes is actually 35 pages long citing numerous books, working papers, journals, news articles, etc.
يتحدث كاتب هذا الكتاب الأستاذ قي جامعة هارفرد عن كيف احتاج البشر الى ايجاد آلية لتنظيم التجارة والمسائل الإقتصادية فيما بينهم وكيف مر المال في مراحل ظهر بها في أوجة عديدة وكيف بدأت فكرة صناديق التقاعد وكيف بدأ التأمين، الكتاب يحتوي على معلومات إقتصادية مهمة، أعتقد بأن دار النشر عليها أن تراجع طبعتها وتعيد إصدار طبعة جديدة لوجود أخطاء مطبعية وإملائية في الكتاب
Ortalarda bir qədər sıxıldım. Çünki ixtisasıma uyğun da olsa əsl tarixdir. Amma başlanğıc və sonluqlar möhtəşəm məlumatlardan ibarətdir. Sırf tarixçi olan biri üçün məncə ideal maliyyə tarixi kitabıdır. Bundan artığını yazmaq üçün ixtisasca da iqtisadçı olmaq lazımdır.
