https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10910.Mercy
I do not want to read in detail about how some asshole cheats on his wife and doesn’t even feel sorry.Cameron MacDonald should get the award for Worst Husband Ever.
While Allie is working on his case (he’s the town’s police chief), he’s shagging Mia. While Allie is waiting for him at home, feeling sorry for him ‘cause he has to work double shifts, he’s shagging Mia. When he’s making love to Allie, in his head he’s shagging Mia. When his mother catches him shagging Mia, he wants to strangle his mother.
But I honestly don’t have the patience to wait for that.
What happens when he talks to a man that killed his dying wife out of love and say ‘How did you ever let her go?’ not because he is thinking about his wife, but because he is thinking about his lover?Maybe I would have sympathizes if the husband and his lady love had some grand love story.But they only had dysfunctional lust, and I read page after page wondering why these two people even LIKED each other.
Could he even be called that?) because she loved him so LITTLE that she would not have liked him to change-stop having his pristine life-and go with her.
SHE LIKED THE IDEA OF HIM.
I really wanted to like this book.
Things I liked: The parts that focused on Maggie were heartbreaking.
Allie comes into her own and realizes she's stronger than she thought she was.
Things I didn't like and the reason for only 3 stars: Cam. Cam.
A love so strong that he cheats on his wife whom he has supposedly loved for 10 years?
Only after his wife finds out does he realize that he's done something wrong, and still he never showed remorse, even as he was being taken back into the fray.
I had read four or five Jodi Picoult novels and found, from the first high of My Sister's Keeper it to be a slow, downhill road and this book doesn't break that path.
The first half, which took me three days to read, established the characters, none of whom I liked.
might have worked if I had liked the characters more, and the language was often over-flowery and reminiscent of a romance novel.
It took me less than a couple of hours to read the second half of the book.
I love Jodi Picoult books!
In fact as the book progressed I became increasingly annoyed at Cam.I found the numerous storylines distracting in a way since I found they detracted from rather than added to the main storyline.
I also found the way the affair between Mia and Cam started to be far fetched.Arguably, it may take a stronger woman to stay with theor husband after an act of infidelity but it really frustrated me that she did.
Especially since we knew that she was always the one who had loved him more.
Absolutely HATED this book!
I usually find a few things I like about a story and highlight them for a review but this one has nothing for me to recommend, at all.
I hated the characters, the style of writing, and the storyline-that-never-was.
This is supposed to be a book about assistated suicide but 99% of it seemed to be about arranging flowers and a sickening adulterous affair between a husband and his wife's co-worker/stranger-who-has-no-allegiance-to-her-friend-or-sense-of-decency-or-morals.
I hated the hoebag Mia, the unresolved marital issues, the lack of backbone in Allie and her mother-in-law Ellen, the lying-cheating-scumbag husband Cameron....
just a book filled with nothing but frustration and anger.
One of my favorite earlier Picoult novels.
This one covers mercy killing, which is such a controversial subject matter.
But like any Picoult book, the supporting characters have their own plots going and boy do you get drawn into them.
You think you are reading a book about mercy killings and then it becomes mercy killings, marriage, infidelity, forgiveness, etc.
Picoult is a master at weaving in so many emotions and questions, leaving readers debating and thinking about the story long after putting the book up.
My quick and simple overall: touchy subject matter but a beautiful story about more than just mercy killing.
I was not really a fan of this book. It could be so much better, IMO. The flashbacks to Scotland were strange and I found it dragged quite a bit. Certainly nowhere near my favourite of Picoult.
The character of Jamie is poorly developed - his main character trait seems to just be how much he loves Maggie - and unlike in other Picoult books, when most of the characters are very invested in the Big Issue, the Big Issue here sometimes felt like a boring side plot.
The way Picoult writes it, they don't even think about Allie at all in those moments.I also just didn't really buy the love between Cam and Mia. I think it's supposed to be romantic, like they're soulmates who met at the wrong time.
Married to Allie,who literally paves the way for him through married life, has an affair with of all people, his wife's assistant at the flower shop she owns.
There were only three characters that I had any good feelings about and that was Jamie MacDonald,who killed his wife because she asked him to.The depth of love he felt for his wife and his resultant anguish tore at my heart.
And I absolutely loved Angus MacDonald, Cameron's great uncle.Without his classic pithy wit and pragmatic approach to life, I would not have finished this book.
I could not put this book down- Jodi's writing is so deep and captivating that I found profound thoughts and insights on nearly every page.
The story itself was ok, but what I liked about the book the most was how psychological it was- the insights and emotions of the characters, and how you could literally see through their eyes and understand their circumstances...
The story revolves around Jamie, a man who deeply in love with his dying wife, kills her at her request.
His story parallels many things that happen in Cam's life as his trial (for murdering his wife) progresses.
I’m trying to think about what I liked about this book 📖......not very much of nothing. All the characters had issues. I couldn’t stand them. Allie I thought was ok but she was naive and dumb. Cam was a jerk and very selfish. Jamie I couldn’t even imagine what he was thinking or how he thought it was okay to do what he did. The story dealt with issues I never read about and gets you thinking 🤔what would you do for love 💗. 2 1/2 ⭐ ⭐
I’m trying to think about what I liked about this book 📖......not very much of nothing. All the characters had issues. I couldn’t stand them. Allie I thought was ok but she was naive and dumb. Cam was a jerk and very selfish. Jamie I couldn’t even imagine what he was thinking or how he thought it was okay to do what he did. The story dealt with issues I never read about and gets you thinking 🤔what would you do for love 💗. 2 1/2 ⭐️ ⭐️
Having read quite a few Picoult books, I would absolutely label myself a fan of her work.
There are constant allusions to the fact that the characters know each other from some past life, but nothing ever comes of that, and that is a bit of a disappointment.
The two plot lines are put together in a bit of a clunky way, and in the end and it almost seems as if you are reading two separate books instead of one book.
I was also heavily disappointed by the ending of the novel.
I was not fine with the decisions made by some of the characters.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book! I had forgotten what an emotional punch Picoult's books had. The subject of euthanasia has always intrigued me and so I was totally drawn in by this story. I also really enjoyed the other plot lines and how everything worked out in the end. I'm always a sucker for happy endings!
The book wasn't really about mercy/euthanasia, that was merely a periphery subplot.
The book was mostly about Cam, the selfish & immature police chief.
I really disliked Cam's character...but I kept reading...waiting for the "mercy" plot line.
The "mercy" plot did not surface until almost the end of the book.
Maybe Picoult didn't have enough substance to write a whole book about euthanasia, so she wrote a random book about Cam with the euthanasia subplot.?
Most overused phrase..."- shook his/her head." Most overused words...murmured, simply.
Simply was the favorite adverb and murmured was the favorite speech descriptor.
I love the way her books grab a hold of you and don’t let you go until the very end.
But probably my favorite thing is that she tackles tough moral issues in her novels.Throughout the novel, I got the distinct suspicion that I had already read Mercy but never finished it.
The ending was abrupt, almost like she was rushing to finish the novel and that was very detrimental to how I felt after reading this novel.But she question she posed it a tough one: Is it okay to kill a loved one out of mercy?
I just couldn't wrap my head around any of them, from Allie's self-esteem issues and emotional dependance on her husband to Cam's lack of concern for the woman he claimed to love and ego.
Picoult writes each character and their flaws with such realism that not only do you believe them, but you find yourself intrinsically connected to them.
But that emotion is just another example of Picoult's exhaustive writing and the careful thought she puts into her storyline and characters.
You can visually see the characters growth by the last few chapters of the book.
This book starts with a man killing his wife because she is dying, very painfully, and he doesn't want her to suffer. A good and mostly believable storyline. Where the author lost me was with the sherrif and his complete lack of regard for his wife. I may be a prude when it comes to marriage, but I don’t find anything in the least romantic about infidelity. If your wife isn’t your “soul mate” then end that relationship first.
At first, I didn't like Cameron or Allie.
Then after Allie realized her husband is lower than the scum of the earth because he was cheating on her with her assistant, I liked her.
I loved her rage.
Hell, I would've done even more damage.Out of the whole MacDonald family, I disliked Cameron the most.
If that's not love then I don't know what is.
Then there's uncle Angus ( I MEAN I LOVE THAT NAME!
I liked the book but it wasn't my absolute favorite from Jodi.
I feel like I wanted more from this book.
Por nenhuma razão em concreto ele foi ficando na estante e a leitura era sempre adiada até que surgiu o projecto desenvolvido pela Elisa do blogue "A Miúda Geek", a Dora do canal "Books & Movies" e a Isa do "Jardim de Mil Histórias" "Um ano com a Jodi".
O que não ficou bem claro é porque é que Maggie não se suicidou, já que tinha possibilidade de o fazer, e colocou nas mãos do marido a sua vida, e a probabilidade de o levar à cadeia.
“Nuosprendis iki gyvos galvos,kai tavo pasaulis apsiribos kalėjimu,ar kalėjimu tapęs pasaulis,jei nuosprendis bus tiesiog gyventi”. Dar viena daug emocijų sukėlusi Jodi knyga ♥Labai stipri šios rašytojos knyga. Privertė susimąstyti,ar gali mylėti taip,jog norėdamas sumažinti mylimojo kančias ryžtumeisi atimti gyvybę? O jei ne - vadinasi myli nepakankamai? Jautri,skausminga istorija apie besąlygišką meilę,atsidavimą kitam šimtu dešimt procentų.. Ši istorija dar kurį laiką išliks mano atmintyje ti
“Nuosprendis iki gyvos galvos,kai tavo pasaulis apsiribos kalėjimu,ar kalėjimu tapęs pasaulis,jei nuosprendis bus tiesiog gyventi”. Dar viena daug emocijų sukėlusi Jodi knyga ♥️Labai stipri šios rašytojos knyga. Privertė susimąstyti,ar gali mylėti taip,jog norėdamas sumažinti mylimojo kančias ryžtumeisi atimti gyvybę? O jei ne - vadinasi myli nepakankamai? Jautri,skausminga istorija apie besąlygišką meilę,atsidavimą kitam šimtu dešimt procentų.. Ši istorija dar kurį laiką išliks mano atmintyje tikrai.. Vertinčiau 5/5 ⭐️
Instead, Picoult spends most of her time focused on the relationship between Cam MacDonald, the town's police chief, and his wife, Allie MacDonald.
But when Allie's world-weary new assistant comes to Wheelock, Cam is smitten.
I felt physically pained by the cruel scenes between Cam and Allie's assistant, Mia, and I can't say I found either character sympathetic or well-developed.
Some people might think I'm missing the point, that both relationships (between Jamie and his wife and Cam and Allie) showed the importance of mercy and forgiveness.
I was disappointed by "Mercy," and I would not recommend it for readers new to Picoult because the book is certainly not reflective of her talents.
The book is about a man who "mercy-kills" his wife who has cancer.
It's also about the man's cousin, Cam and his wife Allie as well as a selfish vagaband, Mia.Basically, I felt really uncomfortable throughout the whole book.
I felt Piccoult was trying to romantcize the cheating which really bothered me.
Furthermore, Cam went away for the weekend with Mia on a weekend which means a lot to his wife.I just wanted to throw the book out the car window into the tires of on-coming traffic.
But other aspects also rose up from this book, like the one that was repeated several times throughout the story about how in a relationship, there's always one partner who loves the other one more than the other, maybe it's 60-40, maybe it's 70-30, but it's never 50-50.
Her character was meh in the beginning, but as I got to know her I began to like her more, and her development or should we say change in her personality by the last parts of the book was wonderful to read about.
Having read most of Picoult's novels, I'm now heartily familiar with her tone and style of writing.
I found parts of the book to be heartbreaking and entirely readable, however the issue of infidelity in Cam and Allie's marriage did not suit the storyline.
This is probably one of the more emotive topics Picoult has written about.
I felt the last fifty or so pages did the storyline justice, however the ending was a little abrupt and I did wonder what was going to happen a year from now.
A worthwhile read, not Picoult's finest writing, but definitely not her worst.
Jodi Picoult has great ideas, but her execution always leaves me wanting.
It's like she gets bored with writing and just wants to finish the novel.The characters droves me nuts.
The only character I liked at all was Ellen, and she didn't have nearly enough to do in the novel.
I wanted to read more about the court case, about Maggie's battle with cancer and her decision to end her life via Jamie.
But instead we had to deal with freaking Cam and Mia's apparent beautiful (gag!) relationship.This book is just terrible.
But her characters are unbelievable and her endings fall flat.
This was a very thought-provoking novel that includes the severe topic of right and wrong, the act of killing someone to end their suffering, and the conspiracies and difficult questions that arise in such a situation.
Also included is a sub plot where one of the characters is tempted to commit an act of infidelity.
Again, the difficult questions of what is morally right or wrong come into play here.
Although with this subplot I admit that I have very strong opinions that tend to lean towards the infidelity is wrong on basically every level scale whereas with the main plot my opinions are more conflicted and undecided.
First off, the main plot concerns a euthanasia killing, where a husband kills his wife to put her out of her misery of cancer.
While I absolutely believe a person has a choice to end their life when they're in absolute pain and dying anyway, it's the most selfish thing I can think of to ask your husband to do it.
Second is the plot of Cam having an affair with his wife's coworker.
One of the plots I hate most to read about in literature.
Those two things put together makes for a very miserable read.
Ne, ne, ne. Ovakve chick-lit knjige jednostavno nisu za mene. Na jedvite jade sam ovo dovršio. Dugo vremena već nisam naletio na ovako lošu i predvidljivu priču.
Jamie MacDonald killed his wife, Maggie, who was already in considerable amount of pain due to cancer.
In this case, Jamie confessed to the police after killing his wife.
He tries to get back into his wife's good graces and patch things up with her and all the while writing some weird ass love notes to Mia. What the hell?Cam's wife, Allie MacDonald really lost me at the end.
What kind of twisted perception of love is that?Another character I don't get is Maggie MacDonald, the supposed victim of the killing.
