https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129618.Until_You
I wasn’t sure what to expect after having just read Whitney, My Love which could have been entitled A Tale of Misunderstandings and People Who Are Too Bullheaded To Even Consider Talking Things Out, … but I digress.Until You was a pleasant surprise.
I enjoyed the storyline and thought Stephen was very charming before he became an ass—but he wasn’t too big an ass considering his bride had left him at the altar.
It sort of dragged in the middle but picked up again towards the end.“Looking at you has been my favorite pastime from the moment you asked me to describe your face," he said solemnly, looking straight into her eyes.” Happiness began to spread through Sheridan until it was so intense she ached from it.
"I want to change your name," he said with a tender smile, "so there's no doubt who you are ever again, or who you belong to." He slid his hands up and down her arms, looking directly into her eyes.
"I want the right to share your bed tonight and every night from this day onward.
"Last of all, I want to hear you say 'I love you' every day of my life.
After Kingdom of Dreams and Whitney My Love shot Judith McNaught into a favorite author spot, I was hesitant to read something of hers that would lessen my opinion of her skill.
I fought back silly, sappy romantic tears because I wanted so badly for Stephen and Sherry to WIN in their utterly impossible relationship!!!!!I won’t recap the story, as you can read the blurb.
Aside from the obvious looks and money, his emotions that he can’t express are so evident in his actions and looks…and the way this author has with words, I swear I could see the expressions on his face.
I had no problems diving right into this world, even though it was clear that characters from the previous books have cameos in this one.I'll admit the writing style took me a bit to get used to, but it never deterred me from enjoying this book.
I fell hard for Sherry right away.Of course being the lover of the broken and broody heroes, Stephen was a hero that I enjoyed immensely as well.
He can be a right stubborn ass at times, and I had moments where I wanted to slap him.
Me ha gustado mucho la historia de Sheridan y Stephen, tanto porque me parecen muy buenos protagonistas como por la historia en sí.Excepto los primeros capitulos en los que se cuenta un poco la historia de ambos protas y es quizás muy narrativo, el resto va muy fluido y engancha bastante.Me ha parecido muy entretenido y muy romántico, asique lo recomiendo 100%
5 STARS[image error]   “Looking at you has been my favorite pastime from the moment you asked me to describe your face.” Another fabulously romantic story from Judith McNaught!!!! I am now completely addicted to her writing, and have just purchased four more of her paperbacks (since they aren’t available in ebook format)! I CAN’T GET ENOUGH of these characters. She has this incredible ability to spin a story into a hurricane of romantic bliss. This story was very different from the first two boo
A continuation of the story but now focusing on the duke of Claymore’s brother Stephen Westmoreland, who has just inherited a large fortune and several titles from a distant uncle.
In fact, it is following a night in her company that he finds himself alone on the streets of London in the early morning hours, where fate throws an unsuspecting, and drunken Lord Burleton under the wheels of his carriage changing the course of his life forever.[image error]
He had also resigned himself to the prospect of ever finding love in his life.
A real disappointment for this final installment in her Westmoreland series especially considering that the first two, Whitney, My Love and A Kingdom of Dreams, were 5 star keeper shelf reads.The whole story centres around Sheridan Bromleigh, a lady’s companion from the US, who accompanies her charge Charise Lancaster (aka the spoiled brat harpy) to England to meet her fiancé.
A hero like that needs a really strong firecracker of a heroine to give as good as she gets for the story to work I think otherwise he comes across as the irredeemable jerk and she’s the mealy mouthed dummy taking everything he dishes out and excusing way too much.
Read as part of the BOTM challenge in HR book club (jilted at the altar theme)This was my first McNaught, and I thought her writing was in general delightful.
It was basically nonexistent.I thought, given the length of this book, it would have a good conclusion, one that didn't feel rushed.
It did feel rushed (see nonexistent groveling in previous paragraph, but not just for that reason), and I couldn't help thinking that Sheridan deserved something different and better for her.
One star for the writing and one for the heroine.
4,5 stars!I loved Sherry and how brave, honest and adventurous she is. Even if her romantic mind sometimes was a little OTP she still amazed me! Stephen couldn't recognize his own mind and feelings even if they slapted him in the face. Such a pigheaded male.... He still broke my heart when (view spoiler)[he waited with the vicar all day for Sherry to return (hide spoiler)]. I loved how Whitney and Clayton were portrayed in the book as a married couple and tried to "help" things...["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Review in a few. I had issues with this reread.
1.5-2 starsI don't know what it is with me and McNaught but I fear we are not meant to be.
Book one must have been a fluke of wonderfulness.
Then book two broke me.
Now book three felt like it was written by a different author in terms of writing style and yet the shitty hero and annoying heroine situation felt strangely reminiscent of my feelings over Whitney My Love.This story was a case of tennis, I was the spectator looking back and forth between each shot, often rolling eyes and getting generally more incredulous as the book progressed.
There was a lot of insta-ness hanging around.I am resigning as reader of McNaught and hereby serve no notice.
While this rating and review might seem harsh after my glowing-ish reviews of books one (glowing) and two (ish), I'm beginning to think my all-out love for KINGDOM OF DREAMS was a fluke.
My rating of WHITNEY, MY LOVE was high despite the walking asshole of a hero and all because of the heroine, and in UNTIL YOU..
She literally became someone she wasn't, after all.Stephen's circumstances, brother to book two's jackass hero, had great potential from what we saw in WHITNEY, MY LOVE but is conveniently given reason to become jackass hero 2.0 because of reasons that are..
I liked this one but didn't love it.I'm not sure exactly what didn't work for me in this romance, I'll have to think on this one and come back with a review.
I just hate to love books like this one...
You know the kind where your on the edge of your seat just knowing that at any minute the book will take a turn for the worse (or the best depending on how you look at it) and the lives of the characters will never be the same?
Stephen mistook her for someone else and led her to believe she was the person he thought she was......from the moment they meet you feel the heat and that oh so wonderful sizzle that only the best authors can deliver...So settle down with the drink of your choice and enjoy this oh so yummy story, but start early...you'll not be able to put this one down!
Una lectura agradable, ligera, divertida, apasionante y con su toque correspondiente de suspense y humor.Disfrutas de los bailes y vestidos de época, costumbres y vida de la alta sociedad Londinense, ya que está ambientada en la Inglaterra de principios del siglo XIX.
Particularmente a mí me gusta mucho esa ambientación y la descripción de los detalles, lugares, costumbres, etc… perfectas.He leído unas cuantas novelas de la autora y me encanta como escribe… con mucha ternura, sensualidad y sin excederse; y lo que me gusta también es que sus protagonistas son orgullosos, autoritarios y con mucho carácter, incluidas las féminas.Sí, recomiendo esta novela a la gente que le gusten las típicas novelas clásicas de época porque disfrutaran de la pluma de Judith McNaught.
It was okay but I don't really like it as much as other JM books.
For myself, authors like Judith McNaught remains as my go to authors when most books of today fails to satisfy me and hit all those spots that need to be petted and stroked when I pick up a romance to read.Until You is the 3rd book in the Westmoreland saga and tells the story of Stephen David Elliott Westmoreland, Earl of Langford, Baron of Ellingwood, Fifth Viscount Hargrove, Viscount Ashbourne.
Sick with fear that she would be imprisoned or worse, not knowing what had happened to the groom in question, Sheridan meets an accident that nearly ends her life, leaving her in the hands and of Stephen himself.Stephen believes that the woman who has somehow invaded his very thoughts and desires is the fiancée of a dead man, whose death he holds himself responsible for.
Set to make things right, Stephen heads to the ship to inform Charise Lancaster that her fiance is dead.
When the supposed "Charise" becomes victim to a tragic accident and looses her memory Stephen takes her into his home and makes it his responsibility to ease her recovery.
Charises chaperone who, before the tragic accident, was on her way to tell Lord Burleton that his beloved fiance actually ran off and eloped with another!
When Sherry wakes up with no memory everyone assumes she is Charise Lancaster.
Once Sherry's memory comes back there is so much conflict it was making me crazy!
...And yet another winner from Judith McNaught.On the whole this one was quite similar to Once and Always.
I don't know if any of you noticed, but both heroines had childhood sweethearts who come back to marry them after a long separation only to find them married to the hero (in Once and Always it was Andrew who came to marry Victoria and in Until You it was Rafe who arrived in England to make good on his promise to marry Sherry).
I was a bit miffed about it cause Andrew and Rafe were both amazing men (maybe not as amazing as the heros but still).
There always seems to be just one scene (or more) that takes the book I've been loving and truly enjoying and just flushing it all down the toilet.
Ugh. So in the end, I liked it, but I still feel too sad about what occurred to really recover enough to give it a really high rating.While I LOVED the description of the heroine and her complete back story, there are some things that took away my enjoyment.
First, I'm not loving that in every JM book I've read the heroine has red hair.
Judith McNaught's writing is such that readers would be content to just read a wonderfully engaging tale of an unlikely man falling in love and turning a poor girl into Cinderella, but the additional misunderstandings in the end took too long to be resolved, with its resolution not being satisfactory compared to the scope of the romance in this story.
To put it simply, after reading pages of a truly romantic and humorous story, I was left with a "That's it?" feeling, at the end of Stephen and Sheridan's reconciliation.
Pero bien, todo cambia cuando se convierte en institutriz y sufre una especie de contención de sus instintos por así decirlo.
Por una parte me gustó que no fuese la típica protagonista sin carácter, pero se quedó en un quiero y no puedo, creo que la autora le podía haber sacado más provecho.
En definitiva, esta segunda novela que llevo leída de la autora no es que sea de las mejores, es entretenida, está bien narrada, ambientada y demás pero me faltó un poco más de emoción en la pareja.
Muito bom! ^_^
Even if I found the amnesia thing a little bit too streched.
I liked her less as lady, but even then she was lively and endearing.Stephen, the hero was a honorable man, even if a little too much!
LOLWhat I didn't like in him is that he couldn't forget what he percieved as her betrayal and thought all the worst of her, but didn't think that she could think the same of him (and he wasn't amnesiac!)!Anyhow, the story is so wonderfully written that I could forget that!
This is absolutely one of the most romantic books ever! I listened to the audiobook and I really couldn't stop smiling, laughing, cringing, and feeling giddy all over, and my gosh, ALL THE FEELS!!! I've read many of Judith McNaught's stuff before but I can't believe I waited this long to read this one. Sheridan Bromleigh is definitely my kind of a HR heroine -- not the shy and always blushing type. I swear, even if you're not a fan of historical romance but you love any kind of romance, you would adore this!
What a fabulous story and a perfect end to a perfect series!!! I didn't even take time to post any updates. Loved, loved, loved this book!!!!!! Cannot wait to read another series from this talented author.
I DNF-ed it after about 70%, it was not worth it. Not to mention that both this and the last book could've been cut in half.
Uma leitura maravilhosa.Foi tão bom voltar a estar na companhia da família Westmoreland e ter tido a oportunidade de rever personagens que fui conhecendo em livros anteriores.Uma vez mais esta autora apresenta-nos uma história com personagens muito fortes e com personalidades bem marcantes. Adorei.
The story was lacking and when there was suspense the story was rushed so fast to the end, you were left wondering what happened.
I wanted to roll my eyes with this thought of his but couldn't do that, because I liked it that no matter what, Stephen is trying to take the responsibilities where Sherry is concerned and not doing things his lout of a brother would've done, which would most certainy have ended in some sort of disaster!It was funny to see the way after planning to 'marry her off' to avoid further inconveniences in order to stick to his 'most cherished' bachelorhood, Stephen ticking off men from the lists (brought by his mother and Whitney) of eligible bachelors.
