https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8935689-consider-phlebas
Because of this conflict between how the characters were described and how they actually behaved, they never developed into real personalities, and their actions rarely made sense--except that they facilitated the plot.At one point, we are told at length how much the character is worrying about some friends of his, if only he could get to them.
Unfortunately, that just just meant that the emotional action was telegraphing the plot--if a character is suddenly revealed to be interesting, makes a connection to the protagonist, and then finds peace with life, you can be sure they're about to bite it.Banks also telegraphs the plot when he tries to increase tension, because he will tell the reader (through exposition) about future possibilities.
Most space operas never really consider the fact that machines will eventually be smarter than people, but Banks confronts this head-on.
I see the relationship between machines and people in the Culture as being rather like the relationship between a person and their genes.
Just as a person can get into a relationship that they know makes no logical sense, because their genes like the idea, Banks's godlike machines also let their human partners make important decisions for them on emotional grounds.
Disaster seems to sharpen Horza’s philosophical skills, because as he attempts to save himself from (da-dum) Certain Doom, he takes a little bit of time to compare and contrast the structured and AI-dominant Culture with that of the religious and militant Idirans.I’ll take ‘C,’ none of the above.Honestly, I ended up bored, and there’s no way that should happen when you are a) in a torture chamber filling with liquid waste, b) in a deep space shoot-out, c) captured by space pirates, d) attacking a monastery for a priceless artifact, e) involved in a mega-colony ship crash, f) about to be eaten by cannibal cultists, g) playing a card game to the death, or h) making a daring spaceship escape, which is where I last set the book down.Mr. Bazan, of the honors high school Civilization class always insisted that boredom was due to the person complaining of it (the students, naturally) not asking enough questions.
it is filled to the brim with so many things, including a handful of long digressions in the first half of the novel, chapters that are pretty much only side-adventures (some of which seem like trial runs for ideas expanded upon in Player of Games and the non-Culture Algebraist).
this is not a tale of crazy adventures that eventually finds its way to a punchy end; this is a novel of rigorously political ideas (and, perhaps, ideals).
those ideas are carefully encapsulated within each sequence, by the grand conflict at hand, and by the eventual fates of each one of its major characters.the choice of the title is wonderful.
I can't really say much, other than Iain Banks has become my #1 favorite Sci-Fi author. I love the way he fleshes out flawed, believable characters in a Space Opera setting. I'm always surprised by his writing, and that keeps me coming back for more. If you're not into the genre, but want to give it a try, pick up this book. You will not regret it!
In Consider Phlebas, his first published novel in the series, he takes this to an extreme, showing us the Culture almost entirely from an antagonistic point of view before giving readers a glimpse of the positives.
Iain Banks is an incredibly nuanced, subtle writer, and he accomplished something unique with Consider Phlebas.The narrative begins with a short prologue detailing the birth, escape, and subsequent pursuit of a Culture Mind in a rare time of war, followed by a particularly grim introduction to our protagonist, Bora Horza Gobuchul, in which he is slowly drowning in a prison cell via sewage and waste created as a result of a banquet held in his "honor".
One of us did something wrong, because I liked The Player of Games a lot more, and yet my reasons for not liking Consider Phlebas are almost all about what the book isn't.It isn't about the Culture, for one thing.
This Mind is stranded on a hostile world that, conveniently, only Horza has access to, but getting there will require some Ocean's 11-style adventures first.So here is my problem: I read this after The Player of Games, which offers you the inside view of the Culture, both the good parts and the bad.
Does this have anything to do with the larger story arc of Consider Phlebas?
The question of how humanity will deal with (or survive, or whatever) the Singularity should be a philosophically engrossing aspect to any book that touches on the subject, but Banks really doesn't seem to want to stretch himself reaching for the tough stuff when his febrile imagination can spin off so much vomit-flavored cotton candy.Too bad.Oh — if you are looking for a much better space opera, may I recommend Alastair Reynolds' 
It’s not you, it’s me.I’ve got to watch out for space operas. I will either buy in early or … I just won’t. And then I’m staring at 400 pages of … ehh.It’s too bad, I really liked the idea and Banks’ writing seemed inspired. There was a cool interstellar culture called … The Culture. The post-scarcity confederacy of different races reminded me of Star Trek and there was also some Dune references.But … it just didn’t take. DNF at 30%, life's too short.Sorry Iain, I might try again some other time.
Consider Phlebas is everything I want in science fiction, and it is where my passionate love of Iain Banks’ work began.
This is big concept, sprawling stuff, and Banks has both the imaginative chops and the writing skills to make it a must read.The central character -Horza, a shape shifting assassin - is recruited by a warlike race of tri-legged religious-extremist reptiles – The Idirans – to help them in their brutal war against a vast, previously peaceful society known as The Culture, a post-scarcity near utopia run in tandem by humans and machines.
I read all of Iain Banks' Culture books in order in which they were written, beginning with Consider Phlebas and ending with the latest, Surface Detail, from 2008 through 2010.
Consider Phlebas being the first Culture book Banks wrote, it was the first I read back in the Spring of 2008.
The protagonist in Consider Phlebas raises all those objections himself, and argues with himself about their merit, about the Culture’s merit.There’s another, more potent aspect of Consider Phlebas that makes it more powerful when read the second time, and it has to do with knowing how the book ends, so here I’m forced to use the embedded spoiler function.
It is not surprising then that this series has a more literary, at times experimental, prose style than most sci-fi books, and is treasured by sci-fi connoisseurs.In a nutshell, the Culture series is an epic space opera featuring a post-scarcity galaxy spanning group-civilization called “The Culture”, ostensibly owned by humans but actually run by super AI entities called The Minds.
The Culture series are all standalone books set in this universe, each volume tells a story concerning the humans and the machines of this powerful empire.Consider Phlebas is the story of protagonist Bora Horza Gobuchul, a Changer, a transhuman with an ability to gradually morph into other humans.
I usually like Iain Banks' sf novels, but this is simply a bad book.It is partly an action novel, with the plot roughly "go to planet X and retrieve an advanced piece of technology." There are a few very exciting action sequences.
I think we can scratch "deep characterization" off the list of possible positives.Banks does a few good things in terms of creating a universe, but the fundamental disjointedness of the book undermines the attempt to describe a cohesive world.And a final pet peeve -- bringing a character back from the dead is 95% likely to be a bad move.
Banks' opening novel in the Culture universe is one of my favourites in sci-fi.
Banks has made unusual choices in his viewpoint characters in all three of his novels that I've read: an enemy of the Culture (Consider Phlebas), a bored gamer who temporarily leaves the Culture (Player of Games) and a non-Culture agent who does their dirty work (Use of Weapons).
In particular, Horza's flight through the General Systems Vehicle, which are typically between 25 and 200 km in each dimension, was some of the best action I've read in a while.I take this opportunity to highlight Banks' deliciously subtle humour.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Post-scarcity Society: "Consider Phlebas" by Iain M.
Banks When Banks died, I was in the process of starting one of my usual re-reads of the Culture novels.
I decided it was not the time to start that re-read.
One of my main attractions to Banks' novels lies in his version of AI.
M. Banks novel every twenty months or so is a source of great sadness.
"Consider Phlebas" was such a dazzling, utterly astonishing tour-de-force, the grandest and saddest of all space operas, which nothing before or since has even come close to.
And now it is the third Banks book I've reread (The Wasp Factory twice, and Use of Weapons once).I like it very much, so I feel a little sad that many friends I respect don't love it as much as I and a good deal of them just think it is mostly okay.I love that Horza is an unlikable protagonist, but I think that bothers some.I love that Banks delivers on the promise of his title and epigraph:IV.
We brush by each other in episodes, and all we learn about each other is in our own little short stories of companionship.Some find Consider Phlebas too brutal.
Well imagine session of Galactic Civilizations or Alpha Centauri (you have to be bit older to remember this Civilization 2 spin-off) going into late-game where all habitable places and resources are split among players and there are 2 main powers who try to get smaller ones by means of diplomacy or war to get edge over other power before final confrontation.
This is the sate of the galaxy where book takes place and indeed world building is top notch.
Culture as a faction is fascinating, they are anarchistic and hedonistic society where humanoids and AI coexist.
Relations between humanoids and AI is superbly well done with some very neat ideas.
People love their Iain Banks, and I respect that, though I've yet to read something of his that impresses me much.
Of course, I've read only two books, and both seemed like slow, ponderous exercises.This novel, for example, was recommend as "thinking man's sf adventure." Hey, that's appealing.
But this didn't strike me as that sort of book.
Instead, it was slow-going, and lacked the giddy joy of invention and play that to my mind the best science fiction always has.
And then someone recommended Complicity, and that annoyed as well, so I am done with his thrillers, too.
All that leaves are his mainstream "literary" novels.
The writing did not click with me - I can't put my finger on it, but I kept being pulled out of the story because the writing felt bland and awkward.
The story seemed to be composed of pointless vignettes.
Each time a new one started I would get excited: ooh, space pirates!
But the narrative never lived up to my hopes, and I spent the whole book feeling disappointed.
By the time the plot actually started to get interesting - the final sequence on Schar's World was admittedly suspenseful - I still didn't care about the characters.
I'm rather curious what other people think of the Culture: One of the dominant powers at the forefront of a decades-long galactic war, and, more importantly, the side that Horza, the protagonist of Consider Phlebas, has chosen to fight against.At the outset, Horza has allied himself with a millennia-old alien species that holds little regard for human life.
In fact, at times you wonder why Horza bothered to get involved with such a dangerous conflict at all.I do think the flat characterization is a bit of a fail for Bank's on this occasion.
4.0 stars. This book is chalk full of some big ideas and I really enjoyed the set up of the Culture civilization as well as how it is viewed by those outside it. In addiiton to big ideas, the book has some really intersting characters (the Eaters come to mind) and I thought the Game of Damage was original and well thought out. I will certainly read other books in teh series.
So if that’s the case, why write the story at all?It’s not clear if Banks actually anticipated that his CULTURE series would eventually extend to 10 volumes, and mark him as a very literary and subversive practitioner of the SF genre, one who could be popular with a certain devoted fan base while at the same time thumbing his nose at the more low-brow wish-fulfillment aspects of space opera.
I don’t know about you, but I remember reading exercises done when I was in Grade 5 that suggested that by now, we would be living in “the Culture”—work would be handled by machines of all kinds and humans would be living in a leisure-based society, post-money, able to do pretty much whatever we could dream up for ourselves.
I’ve done an (admittedly cursory) search for a video game that would try to recreate Damage, but I haven’t found one.
Actually any Iain Banks book is worth its weight in gold as far as I am concerned.
Good science fiction is VERY hard to find.
It takes an author that is not only good at telling a story but, especially in books like Banks writes (that are based on future science as well as current astrophysics), someone who understands how things work at the astrophysical level to the molecular level.
Placing political, social, and cultural theorizing into a readable and scientifically correct tale places Banks in an elite group of science fiction writer.
All of his books are a rare pleasure indeed.
Who could find fault in a book about a shape changer who goes on a suicide mission to recover a rogue Mind (apparently they don’t like being called AI) in a science fiction universe full of stuff like governments run solely by old, decrepit men who execute offending parties by literally drowning them in shit?
Who wouldn’t be happy with a book with mind-bendingly huge spaceships named things like Nervous Energy, Trade Surplus, or No More Mr. Nice Guy?
Who wouldn’t thrill to scenes of ritualized cannibalism on the beaches of an (again) mind-bendingly huge ring station in space?
A grim space adventures, enlivened by Bank’s gothic carnival of an imagination, that reminds a little of Gene Wolfe, Jack Vance, and maybe Moorcock’s Dancers At the End of Time. A decadent end of all things feeling; with bizarre games (ones where real lives are at stake), cannibal cults, odd characters, bleak set pieces weighted with time, and a roguish trickster main character (to say the least, as chilling and ruthless as a Bester or Vance character). Nonstop whit and invention steer you through the darkness, but still, the ending is pretty relentlessly chilling.
8/10Through his life and his widely-known literary career until his sad passing, Scottish Iain M. Banks - coming to the forefront after his debut novel,  The Wasp Factory , in the early ‘80s - was a writer that many loved and admired, becoming quickly one of the most prominent and important writers of his generation, earning through his works rave reviews, and leaving behind a great legacy.And, though best known in general fiction, in Consider Phlebas - the first installment in a series of loose

"Look folks, I can do that sci-fi gig, but I've got mad skillz with words and I've got ideas, man!"Alastair Reynolds does this too, and like Banks, he left me a bit cold.Now, maybe this is just my dissatisfaction with space operas in general in recent years.
It takes more than big ideas and big words to impress me.Consider Phlebas is, at heart, your basic heist story about a scruffy gang of malcontents trying to get a little somethin' somethin' in the middle of a raging space war between the Culture and the Idirans.
Found this boxset sitting on my shelves and picked it up based on a friend's recommendation...it did not disappoint! (Especially for a novel that's almost 30 years old.)Well-written and fast-paced, Consider Phlebas definitely scratched my space opera itch. I'd recommend this one to fans of James S.A. Corey's Leviathan Wakes.(Neat bonus: many fans say this is the weakest of the Culture books, so I'm excited to read the rest. This was was a solid 4 stars.)
This is the second of his books that I've read in the past week or so.
Like HH's book though neither author ever really got down to describing what such a complex game would really be like, which I would be interested to know about, but oh well.This book wasn't quite as good, it's part of the same series, a series I now realize is mostly out of print.
I liked the book when there wasn't action going on, the general ideas of the book and the relationships between the utopian Culture and other societies I liked, and the idea of the Culture I find quite interesting, and the end notes giving the back story to the war going on in the book I found on the fascinating side.
