https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/217518.The_Witches_of_Eastwick
I'm suprised by all the reviews of this book that speak of Updike's ability to "get" and fully understand women ...
There is not one redeemable female character in this novel.
I am not being prudish, I'm not suggesting that every female character should be a paradigm of female virtue - but what is Updike saying about women, when all the female characters in this novel are largely abhorrent?
Awful mothers, absent lovers - even the females on the periphery (often the jilted, the abandoned, the victims), understandably wind up shrill, judgemental, bitter.
Presumably this is all part of Updike's social commentary on ...
Of the 1,000 approaches to that story, Updike's is so pontifical and pumped up with its own magnificence that it ceases to be ridiculous and just becomes unreadable.Set in the late 1960s--where there is no love lost between the author and those kids growing their hair long, protesting the war and listening to those damn Beatles records--the title characters are Alexandra Spofford, Jane Smart and Sukie Rougemont, divorcees or widows who've all shacked up with seemingly every able bodied man in Eastwick.
U, is for Updike. 1 I would like to go back and never purchase this StarIt’s not you it’s me! You know what?! It IS you, it is 100% YOU, Updike!! This book is AWFUL!!There are so many attempts to make this book edgy that it came off entirely underwhelming. I mean, it took me over 2 months just to finish it for fuck’s sake! A 300 page novel… two months?! That is actually unheard of, for me!! I found every reason under the sun (of which there has been lots these last two months) to not read this
I mean, it took me over 2 months just to finish it for fuck’s sake!
I found every reason under the sun (of which there has been lots these last two months) to not read this book.
I found every excuse NOT to read this book because Updike’s writing is distancing and his characters are extremely difficult, nay IMPOSSIBLE, to give a shit about.
Category: A book with magic.
I read this book the way it ought to be read, or at least in the circumstances which are best suited for it.I was away at a beach house for a weekend in the middle of summer and had pretty much nothing to do but lollygag around, smoke cigarettes, and read this book.It's perfect for sunny clear skies and long hours drinking lemonade by the ocean.
The writing is crisp, quick and clear.
Updike's pretty much encyclopedic when it comes to writing skills and he's doing everything pretty smoothly here: aphorisms, characters, vibrancy, plot, vividness.
I'm generally a fan of Updike's writing, despite its tendency to flirt with misogyny, but this novel of his is barely readable. Conceptually, it was a fascinating idea, and I can only assume it was the concept, rather than the actual novel, that triggered the idea for the movie.
Witches and spells to celebrate the Halloween spirit of October.(sigh)Having never seen the film, or read any Updike novels before, I really did not know what to expect.
And sadly, this novel did not deliver many great things at all.(sigh)A little over two weeks spent trying to get into a novel that is only 306 pages long.
At about the 2/3rds mark, I found myself finally engaged in the novel and reading through the pages much quicker, trying to find out just where Updike was going to leave these three witches and their wacky zany neighbor.
I wish I loved anything as much as John Updike loved the sight of his own words on the page.The Witches of Eastwick has A Point To Make about the role of women in white, middle class, 1960s America.
But what bothers me about the relationship between Van Horn and the witches (their group relationship and his caring individual relationships with each of them) is how we're set up to believe these women are totally self-sufficient, with built-in bullshit detectors, who keep themselves aloof from caring about anything except their art and their coven.
Maybe I was reading it wrong, but the message I got was that women are only powerful when they don't have men.
Doesn't matter if they leave the men, or the men leave them.
Then, when they have that power, they will use it to do petty and awful things.
They will also sleep around, because even though being without men is what gave them the power in the first place, they certainly can't actually be happy without men in their lives.
John Updike, I don't think you and I are friends.
In fact, I think I will be avoiding you for the foreseeable future.
I really loved the movie and was looking forward to some light hearted revenge to ease the aching in my brain.
Unfortunately for me and my brain, the only things from this book that made it into the movie were the three witches, the horrible rich man (wasn't Jack Nicholson just perfect in this role...totally disgusting but still Jack...you gotta love him), and the game of tennis.
It tells us a slice of life of three divorced mothers who grow their emancipation (which often looks like carelessness) in their small hometown of Rhode Island and the milestones that occur within it.
A mysterious eccentric who settled nearby just messing up their lives.
Nevertheless, I would characterize the contemporary novel (stuffed with witchcraft) rather than fantasy novel.I enjoyed reading this.
Prose is surprisingly lively, an intellectual and often caustic strand, unexpected developments, colorful characters.
There is much discussion of art and life together.
I have not seen, but after the comments are quite different, and some say that the book is better.
this is a book in which characters look in the mirror to see how good-looking they are (particularly to admire their voluptuous breasts, or the breasts of their friends). it is also a book in which john updike tries to write feminist characters but succeeds only in building up a group of women who hate each other, who hate their children, who hate other women, and who are idly superior to the men.ugh.
As so many people have said, this book reads like an old man trying to write a feminist book.
While I love the idea of women being empowered by their bodies, the descriptions of this were sometimes cringeworthy - period cramps were exaggerated hugely, and the ability to give birth was portrayed as the be-all end-all (nevermind that the women ended up not caring about the actual children).
BUT this group of women also hated all other women and rained misery down upon them in the form of witchcraft as well as simply talking behind their backs and constantly judging them.
Furthermore, the whole plot of the book ended up revolving around a man.
Είχα υψηλότερες προσδοκίες από αυτό το βιβλίο! Δεν έχει κάτι ιδιαίτερο, ούτε κάτι σκοτεινό, ούτε ιδιαίτερη μαγεία. Ένα πολύ χλιαρό βιβλίο.
I love this book. Not only does John Updike write heavenly prose, but this book is quite the feminist manifesto. Jane, Sukie, and Alexandra are created by Updike with care and attention, and they are fun, well-drawn personalities to spend a little time with. Updike uses the natural setting of Eastwick, Rhode Island to great advantage. If you feel like getting away to one of those small hamlets on the eastern seaboard, watching a storm come in from the sea, this is the book that will take you there. A wonderful, rich read.
That's a good thing because I've abandoned Rabbit, Run at least twice - I just hate the characters so much that I can't even go along with the author on the journey.I'm not really sure whose side to take on this book, because I have read that this was Updike's response to complaints of misogyny in his Rabbit books.
Are the witches feminist symbols or do they reflect Updike's disdain for women?
Add to that his descriptions of them, which are usually not flattering, and my impression was that Updike wants us to finish the book thinking the witches are fools.
Aside from Updike's beautiful writing, there is not much to recommend the book when you have the option of watching the much better, George Miller-directed movie. While the movie focuses on female friendship and how it's affected by a f*ck-boy, the book introduces a coven of women who have a love-hate relationship with their sexuality and each other.Mind you the movie isn't perfect, but at least it lacks Updile's weird way of bringing body fluids and odors into focus one too many times.
Telephone conversation is inherently absent any specific place or scene so relying on it so heavily to carry a fictional story is an unforgivable and fatal flaw.On the whole, the story indeed moved very slowly but somehow the end felt like it wasn't elaborated or explained well enough.
And I must qualify my opinion with the fact that in general I RATHER LIKE A VERY DENSE NOVEL.One other thing, the passage of time wasn't very well conveyed; the only sense I got was through the dropping of totally unsubtle statements that a year or so had passed.
I really enjoyed the writing in this book, but as a whole it left me feeling kind of unsettled and ambiguous. I think what ultimately bothered me was the way that the witches, who had been hurt by men, seemed to spend all their time using magic against other women. That was probably the point, but it's sort of one of those things that's been pointed out so often that I've ceased to find it very compelling or clever. I'd be interested in other peoples' thoughts on this book, though.
I was so young when I read this. I thought it was very strange at the time. But much of it stuck with me, including the mental images of Cher and Jack Nicholson, despite never seeing the movie!
something tells me John Updike doesn't like women very much.
I had the strangest feeling reading this: it is nominally about three women, but I felt like I was reading an anthropological study of an alien culture.
(SPOILERS)I was interested, and the language kept me reading, but my God I didn't like a single soul in the book.
It was one of those cases where the book is telling me things about the characters that are completely at odds with how the author expects me to feel about them.
They are, as the book makes very clear, only women after all.
Having seen the movie first, the cast of characters was already set in my mind.
I could not envision them in any other way.
This didn't really get in the way, but some of the differences in premise and plot did disappoint.(view spoiler)[I think I liked it better that (in the movie) the women didn't know that they were witches originally and were therefore surprised by their power.
I like how Van Horne built their confidence in their passions.
Those passions, in turn, fueling their sexual appetites.
(hide spoiler)]Good book, just don't expect the same story as the one you may know.
All the amazing Updike prose in the world couldn't make up for this gross book full of wretched characters.
Three, it's not pissing on feminism, witchcraft, or even bored housewives as much as that he's having fun with the idea of complacent modern women who feel stuck in life and don't know what to do with their own energy might do with an excess of power.
He even has them doing some of the classical things witches were suppose to have done in those old tales, healing the damaged with sex, connecting with the elements, having familiars, and making spells for the needy before Daryl comes to town and sets off a big shift in both power structure and the focus for that power.
Finally, about 170 pages into the book, something did, and then for some reason, I kept on reading, partly because I'm stubborn and partly because I was compelled the way people are compelled to gaze at the scene of car accidents as they drive by.
Even more deplorable is the way in which they seek to destroy other women in the community of Eastwick, either out of jealousy, revenge, or for amusement.I've never read any Updike before and found I needed to get used to his writing style.
Time to cut my losses.Turn-Offs, in order of irritation:- a male author writing female characters rhapsodizing about their newfound embrace of womanhood as they got older, got divorced, became witches.
That screams male wish-fulfillment waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay more than it does female sexual empowerment!At least 2/3 of the women are sleeping with married men (not their first time doing that, either...) with no compunctions about it, but neither do they seem especially happy or fulfilled by it.
But this is not set up necessarily as "the world is magic, deal with it," so it's just this odd choice that's not even the point of anything, so why...?
As soon as they realized that it's the mysterious man who is causing all the trouble they did their best to stop him.This is essentially why I like the (sadly) short lived tv series - especially in the first few episodes: the idea that you are both good and bad, that you can do bad things but you can also atone and learn; the idea that everything has it's cost.I don't agree with the philosophy of this book - I don't believe people are vain, stupid, remorseless and unfeeling.
I thought it warped, fucked up story of three supposedly powerful women.
Supposedly powerful, because they're witches.
What they do with the power is spend the entire freaking book trying to catch another man.
Their object of fascination is an idiot by the name of Darryl Van Horne, a man of big money and big ideas, but really doesn't have anything interesting to say.
This is so because his big money and big ideas are so revolutionary.
Their justification out of their guilt is that she didn't mind, because Darryl was (view spoiler)[gay for her brother (hide spoiler)].
So firstly, this bares as little in common with its film adaptation as 'The Stepford Wives' soooo...
Unfortunately this isn't the boon you might think it is.Set in the sixties and with certain feminist (or attempted feminist) undertones it does actually have a certain The Stepford Wives vibe at times, mixed with the The Master and Margarita perhaps.
However its far inferior to either of those.Its main problem is that nothing happens...
There was a few moments of interest at about 4/5's despite the main characters seeming to completely change their personalities, but that faded fast.
Half-formed characters with a half-formed narrative.
Never spelled out in detail like romance books but enough for you to know its a big part of the story.
Personally I'm okay with the, put nicely, promiscuity but an affair with someone who's married or even in a committed relationship isn't what I would call decent or acceptable, you got married for a reason.
Don't need to get into that though, there are exceptions to every rule, not sure what this one would be though.The Witches of Eastwick was interesting, thought provoking.
I have neutral feelings about this book for the most part but its not something I would personally recommend.
A big disappointment after reading Terrorist. InTerrorist, Updike had such a firm grip on his characters, whereas here, I felt they fell through his fingers. The Witches of Eastwick proves that good writing doesn't necessarily equal good story. While some of the scenes were well done in terms of witchcraft (Alexandra on the beach conjuring up a storm), opportunities were squandered. Instead of pursuing the art of witchcraft and all sorts of potential conflicts with the characters, half of the time the reader was put through lengthy telephone conversations that froze the plot.
