https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/362136.Sharpe_s_Regiment
Instead, Major Richard Sharpe is back on English soil and his enemy is the British army itself.
The wheres and the whos matter little in a Bernard Cornwell book, because you're going to get pretty much the same thing every time, and if you like/love it once, you'll like/love it again and again.
Cornwell knows his winning formula inside and out.
Well, once you've read one Sharpe book you've read them all.
Look, the bottom line is, Bernard Cornwell's got a good thing going and he's riding it for all its worth.
I liked the drama of this. It was fun and full of pompous arses and a little bit foolish. It worked in the end and Sharpe got away with it. After following Sharpe through Spain, it's odd to find him here, in England, amongst 'normal' people. I have enjoyed the friendship between Sharpe and Harper and how much they depend on one another. No matter which women Sharpe throws himself at, Harper is there to pick up the pieces and his slight despair at seeing Sharpe fall for another woman is humorous.
I've been reading the Sharpe series for around seven years now (starting at the very beginning) and I'm finally getting towards the end - only four more books to go after this one!
Not that I'm planning to rush the final few, in fact I'll draw them out and savour them as I have always done.SHARPE'S REGIMENT offers something a bit different to the usual Peninsular action.
Harper gets a lot of characterisation this time around, while we see Sharpe become obsessed with passion.
SHARPE'S SIEGE is the next.I read and finished this book (in on-and-off instalments) in around 30 hours.
Bookended with scenes on the continent, but the bulk of the story is a change of pace for the series with its focus on domestic political intrigue in England. Both informative and entertaining, it establishes new characters who hopefully will continue in the series and seamlessly re-introduces old ones as well.
I took a break from thIs series, and when I went back to this one, I realized how much I love Richard Sharpe. Not the battle action heavy book of past ones, but thick with intrigue and history. I enjoyed.
I've read quite a bit of Mr Cornwell's stuff, although I've avoided the Sharpe series as I watched the tv series which was very enjoyable.
He's a northerner with a pronounced northern accent and it appears from this book that Sharpe was from the slums of London and should've sounded more like an early Michael Caine.Anyhow back to the book.
I thoroughly enjoyed this regency romp and probably more so because I have read a lot of Drek lately.The plot is preposterous, you know whats coming, its handled superbly and what can I say?
I enjoyed it immensely.
Getting toward the end of the Sharpe series of books, not far from Warterloo and the end of the Napoleonic wars. Sharpe has waged war across India, Portugal and Spain and is now about to enter France, but first a trip back to Blighty to pick up some men. Don't seem to be getting any recruits from home, but that's because there's someone up to some shenanigans. Sharpe also manages to work his way through the female population of any country he's in. Wonder if he's an ancestor of James Bond, only without Q branch and the gadgets.
A nice plot change-up in the series with Sharpe battling corrupt British aristocrats rather than the French. Of course there's a woman or two and a few other predictable elements, but we're getting close to Waterloo and I will keep reading.
Raw, intense, illuminating.
In Sharpe’s Regiment there are echoes of the familiar tropes, but for most of the book it is a very nice departure from the standard Sharpe setting that still feels true to the characters.After Wellington’s successful campaign in Spain, the French forces have been driven out of the country and it appears there will be some downtime in the action.
The cast of characters in this book is mostly new faces, with several inexperienced recruits falling into fun archetypes (the educated one, the one with the dog, the complainer, etc.) and evil officers in the British ranks.Some of the best moments in the book come from the unique position of Sharpe and Harper needing to be deserters, or needing to shoot back in a situation where they don’t want to kill British soldiers.
Major General Nairn sends Sharpe to London to get his regiment.Lord Simon Fenner, a politician and the Secretary of State at War, doesn't want the South Essex to get its replacements.
The new recruits include Charlie Weller and his dog, Buttons; Tom is a half-wit; Giles Marriott enlisted for all the wrong reasons; Jenkinson is one of the convicts; and, Sharpe and Harper enlist as Vaughn and O'Keefe.Horse GuardsLord John Rossendale delivers the Prince of Wales' invitation.

A fictional account of the real venality, greed and political double-dealing occurring in England among the high placed elite who make profits at the expense of the military.
The contrast between the high-life of the aristocrats, who pompously assume the trappings of warriors and the troops in their desperate conditions and deep trust and camaraderie.
Last battle in book is the final clearing for french troops from the Pyrenees, opening the way to invasion of France.
A corrupt political plot threatens to put an end to the South Essex regiment and the life of Major Richard Sharpe when he investigates and discovers an illegal recruiting ring selling soldiers like cattle to other divisions.
Sharpe's Regiment where Sharpe must save the South Essex from dissolution, encounters an old adversary, is aided by an old friend, fights on an unexpected battlefield, rendezvouses with aristocratic women, and is betrayed by a friend.
The old Sharpe luck (which he had no hand in making this time) saves him at the last minute.
I think the book would have been better if Sharpe had actually engaged on the battlefield of politics on which he found himself and found that he had the skills to succeed there.
The book is a very quick read and is still worth reading for any Sharpe fan.
Fighting in Spain had wound down and the South Essex leaders were wondering why no reinforcements were being sent to replace the casualties.
Major Sharpe is sent to Britain to find out the reason for the delay and finds himself and Sergeant Harper faced with a complicated case of military and political swindling.
Instead of the usual military might and skill that fans would expect, Sharpe uses his wit to trick the scoundrels into exposing their scandalous operation.
In this story the only real battle comes in the epilogue but is a very significant one.
In spite of that, this was a real page-turner.
Great to see Sharpe in a different sort of environment compared to the battlefields we are used to seeing him in.
Despite Sharpe's tendency to always come out on top, Cornwell still maintained the element of suspense which makes the reader fear for the hero and particularly in the case of this book, Patrick Harper.
My only gripe, which I find to be an issue among all the books in the series, is the weakness of the romantic element (the ease by which Sharpe falls in love with new a woman).
Overall, an excellent read and among my top 5 in the series.
In this book Cornwell is back to the old and successful scheme of "problem needs solving, so Sharpe is going to solve it", but there is a twist.
As the story unfolds as a political one, Sharpe makes some very straight forward moves, that only entangle the problem further.
Lucky him, he has a sympathetic observer, who becomes his saviour.
Though the plot movements are predictable, the book captivated me by its fast pace, adventurous spirit, the deep esteem the author shows to the armed forces and the humanistic depiction of soldiers' life.
Another solid Sharpe novel, this time taking place almost entirely in England instead of Spain as with most of the series.
The story is par for the course as far as Sharpe goes, an entertaining adventure that follows the tropes that have become familiar to longtime readers of the series.
Sharpe and Harper go on a dangerous mission, Sharpe meets a beautiful woman, he is looked down upon by upper-class officers who are powerful but incompetent, and Sharpe ends up on top through cleverness and his bulldog tenacity.
Its a familiar formula but still an effective one.
While this story doesn't particularly stand out in the series, it's still an entertaining read.
This one is a bit different from many of the Sharpe novels as the majority of the book takes place outside the theater of war. There's plenty of fighting and Regency-era militaria, but also intrigue and politics as Sharpe investigates the disappearance of his 2nd Battalion in England. Cornwell takes you from the battlefields of Spain, to the Royal Court and St. Giles rookery in London, from the Chelmsford Army Depot to a secret training camp in Essex, from Hyde Park to the French fortifications in the Pyrenees. Fast-paced and entertaining.
Испания е отвоювана и французите са почти изцяло изхвърлени от нея.
Войската на Уелингтън се готви усилено за нахлуване в Наполеонова Франция.Шарп и батальонът му очакват свежи попълнения от Англия, където трябва да е събран и обучен нов набор, но както се оказва, подготвени попълнения няма - някак си те са изчезнали...
Вместо това идва писмо, което предвижда Южен Есекс да бъде разформирован напълно и съставът му от офицери и войници да бъде разпръснат из останалите батальони.Шарп и Харпър заминават за Лондон, твърдо решени да открият какво става и да спасят батальона.
Там ги очакват бюрокрация, интриги и стари врагове.
Както и рекрутиращия сержант Хорейшо Хавърсак.
:)P.S. В книгата почти няма сражения, но отново е много интересна.
In this installment of Richard Sharpe's adventures, Cornwell tackles the practice of "crimping" -- a now-obsolete word for conning young men into the army and making a profit on the practice. As a result, Sharpe ends up back in England for the first time in decades, and in the end he navigates the political winds as well as he does battles. Not to worry, though, because he does get his regiment and the book ends with a battle, leaving us plenty of room to get Sharpe on to the end of the war in France.
Outstanding - sits nicely in my Top 5 Sharpe novels. It's 1813, and Richard Sharpe finds himself fighting a different battle against a different and dangerous enemy. As Wellington's forces start the invasion of France, the South Essex are woefully under strength after the brutal Spanish campaign and unless Sharpe can find their reinforcements, missing somewhere in the English countryside, the regiment will be split up. So, Sharpe and Harper travel back to England.
Cornwall is a master of historical fiction. His research and knowledge of his subject matter is amazing. Everything about the setting of the Sharpe novels seems "real" -- you can hear, smell, and feel the places he describes. Sharpe is an interesting character and listening to the audiobook was fantastic -- the narrator makes such a difference and this narrator is phenomenal. Can't wait for his next adventure!
The one-and-only Richard Sharpe book (to date) to be primarily set in England, where Sharpe and Harper must go undercover and re-enlist in order to find out what had happened to their missing reinforcements: reinforcements, it transpires, that are being illegally sold to other regiments by a figure from their past.
It’s an excellent entry in the adventures of Richard sharpe. I have seen the brilliant movie version of it before, so there were no real surprises, but I still thoroughly enjoyed it. The final battle was perhaps a bit underwhelming compared to the epic historic battles of other books.
I liked it because it was not another copy of the previous series. I had to stop reading them for a while because they got so similar.
The political skullduggery is almost harder for the reader to take than all the frogs normally trying to kill our heroes.
Although all of this Sharpe series have been excellent, 'Sharpe's Regiment' just may be one of my favourites!
Fantastic! Sharpe does Bond in this one, wandering the green fields of England searching for his lost battalion. An atypical one in the series and hard to put down. A thrilling and fun read.
Someone stolen Sharpe's new recruits, so he heads back to blighty to crack some heads and pull a posh bit of totty, just another ordinary day then.very enjoyable
