https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/552719.Top_of_The_Heap
But then in the nick of time, Donald would solve the case, often generating a bigger fee than Bertha had ever imagined, and in the end everyone was happy again until the next client walked into the office."Top of the Heap" falls into the middle of the series and follows the usual pattern.
Their evidence will provide the client with an alibi in a relatively minor matter and of course the client offers the usual large bonus for quick results.Although Donald advises against it, Bertha eagerly agrees to take the case.
Come for the complex, enigma-laden, riddle-wrapped mystery, and stay for the juicy, pulp-filled patois of a couple of very slick talking dicks in this hard-boiled classic.
They’re also partners in an LA private investigation firm called Cool and Lam. Bertha generally sits behind her desk being angry while Donald goes out and does the leg work for the pair.
Donald quickly finds the girls and seemingly wraps the matter up, entitling Cool and Lam to a big, fat bonus of $500 (this is 1950’s when that meant something).
This hardcover first edition is a Morrow mystery published in 1952 and is 243 pages originally cost $2.50 .Dust Jacket by Ellen McQuarie.
Donald Lam of the Cool and Lam detective agency is hired to find two women for John Carver Billings The Second in order to provide him an alibi in the disappearance of a mobster's girlfriend.
Lam soon figures out that the evidence proving Billings's alibi has been fabricated and wants to find out why, leading him into a web of intrigue involving murder, a mining scam, and illegal gambling.So I liked this one but it's not at the top of my Hard Case list.
It seemed like everyone spoke in detective lingo.
The mining scam seemed overly complex.
Written by Erle Stanley Gardner near the end of the Pulp era, Top of the Heap is a true hard boiled crime novel.
While this was a bit disappointing, I didn't feel like it was detrimental to the book overall.I eluded earlier to the fact I found the plot to be rather intelligent.
This book is actually part of separate series written by the author and coopted in the Hard Case Crime series.
There were a couple of instances where sex was implied Language  Mild Obscenities - 104 F-Words - 0 Religious Exclamations - 0 Violence  -  2 There are several murders and bit of roughing up in the book.
**.Gardner must have been recovering from a coma when he plotted this novel based on the exploits of the Cool and Lam Detective Agency.
Donald Lam – Bertha’s partner – made a good showing in this case, however, with his usual plugging along style.
In all, it is a fairly good police procedural (or, should I say a detective procedural) with a sprinkling of flirting on the part of Donald and a variety of ladies involved in the plot.
This is a fair rendering of Gardner’s series characters, but marred only in the delineation of the plot.
This is my first book from Cool and Lam...
with the twist that the 'senior' partner of the two is a woman (who didn't really do anything but worry and yell in this one).The case was an interesting one with alot of twists and turns that weren't TOO predictiable.
Donald Lam was a pretty fun character, even if he was a little too successful with the ladies and getting people to talk than made sense.
maybe that wasn't a thing when this was written.The unique part was having some of the legal bits of money laundering laid out, that was really interesting.
He is best known as the author of the Perry Mason series, but Gardner also wrote a mere 30 books in the Cool and Lam series under the pen name A.A. Fair.
Ultimately, there is a lot of stuff that Lam uncovers, including a number of bodies, gangsters, gambling houses, point shaving, a former stripper now a rich widow, and phantom gold mines that are used to funnel money from gambling winnings.This work feels in many ways typical of many of the hardboiled detective novels of the 1950s with a lone man going against criminals and the law, convinced of the justice of his own cause.
The following is an imagined conversation regarding the selection of Top of the Heap for the Hard Case Crime series:"Okay, we've selected the first two Hard Case Crime novels...we need something next that will elevate our reputation and readership.""How 'bout a big name?""That's the idea!
But whose work could we get with a limited budget?""Guys who wrote a ton of novels always have a few lying around waiting to be published...Erle Stanley Gardner, for example.""Alright, call up his people and see if we can get something on the cheap."---"Well, they're going to let us have one...""You don't sound very excited about it.""Well, boss, it's not very good.""It can't be that bad...but I'm guessing it's no Perry Mason.""No, it's a D.
Scandalously this is the first of my Hard Case Crime series collection that I've read in a year.
After the success of last year's 20 hour international flight Hard Case Crime-a-thon I decided to do it again for this years trip.Erle Stanley Gardner, read from Perth to Dubai.Considering that he's famous for his Perry Mason whodunnits this was a pretty solid attempt at classic hardboiled detective fiction.
There were aspects about this that I really liked, most notably Donald Lam himself.
He could probably tell you that the sky is green and you’d second guess yourself.Some of the supporting cast were a little strange - especially Lam’s partner, Brenda.
While I understood why she had been upset following a specific event, you’d think that with this being the 22nd installment of the series, she’d be a little more confident with Lam’s skills as a detective.While I liked it, it didn’t leave me with the same lasting impression that either of the first two books did.
I'd heard a great deal about Donald Lam and Bertha Cool, Mason's grittier (and funnier) detectives.
While no great shakes as a mystery (nothing here would particularly surprise any fan of the genre), it shows all the elements of the series: Cool's greed and volcanic temper; Lam's attractiveness to women and solid investigating skills; a client who is hiding something; a tidy solution that wrapped up all the (often confusing) clues into a neat package.
I enjoyed it and look forward to picking up the other Cool and Lam books republished by Hard Case Crime.
I proceeded to read the first two paragraphs aloud, we giggled some and then she went about Easter things...
I continued reading.I do have to admit, I was totally drawn in by this book.
I have never read a true detective novel written by a respected author in the field.
He does this in short order, but it was all a little too easy, too smooth and the whole thing doesn't sit right with Lam. The plot is really about Lam trying to uncover why this alibi is important and what is trying to be hidden.
This is exactly what you expect it to be, a hard boiled detective novel.
Good entry into the Cool & Lam series and one that thankfully Hard Case Crime made available.
This one has the highly convoluted plot that is a staple of the series.
And it exercises Gardener/Fair's knowledge of the law (he was an attorney).
Bertha Cool is way in the background on this one and, frankly, that doesn't hurt much because Donald Lam is by far the more interesting character.
Fair does a nice job of adding in San Francisco police detective Sheldon and he's great addition with some snappy dialogue.
Good read, well worth the short time it should take to get through it.
A. Fair, Erle Stanley Gardner, famous for his Perry Mason mysteries, crafted a detective noir series that became almost a blueprint for private eye fiction.
Beginning in 1939 and spanning thirty volumes all the way to 1970, the Donald Lam/Bertha Cool mysteries were always quick reads that entertained and introduced the reader to the dark underbelly of society where everything is a scam and everyone a suspect.
Gardner tells it all in first person from Lam's perspective the way a decent private eye noir should be told.
Another good book by Earl Stanley Gardner.
The detective agency of Cool and Lam takes on a cases to find two missing women who can provide an alibi for a man. Things are too easy and Lam uncovers a couple of murders as he sets out to find the truth about the original case. Written by Earle Stanley Gardner under the A.A. Fair pen name.
Like the other Cool and Lam pulps by Erle Stanley Gardner writing as A.A. Fair, Top of the Heap starts with a simple and shady case, easily solved and paid for only to morph into a complex conspiracy.
Though, readers of the series will note, by this point, Lam is taking lead and the charismatic Bertha Cool is on the peripheral - a far cry from the other Cool and Lam book published by Hard Case Crime in The Knife Slipped.
A book in the B.
Lam noir detective series by the author that created the Perry Mason books.
Detective Donald Lam certainly is Cool and that's what I look for in a noir.
That and good-looking girls, which this novel offers up; though not of the femme fatale variety.
This is definitely one of the better books of this genre (that isn't on the Chandler, Hammett or Cain plane).
This mystery by Earle Stanley Gardner, best known for Perry Mason, features the detective duo of Bertha Cool and Donald Lam, two very disparate characters.
Cool is the senior partner and accepts cases for financial gain, while Lam plays a critical role in solving them without resort to the use of weapons.
This one involves the Mafia, financial chicanery, gold mines, gambling, vice, murder and mayhem, and is a joy to read.
The only surprise is that given these wonderful characters which offer juicy roles for some modern day actors, and delightful plots, this series has not been translated to the big screen as a series of murder mystery comedies.
Gardner had a nice ear for dialogue and his Donald Lam character is a pretty smart guy (kind of your brainy-detective type).
I'm not sure I care for the whole "Cool and Lam" agency aspect as Bertha Cool comes off as nothing more than the voice of Charlie Brown's teacher.
Oh, I shouldn't fail to acknowledge Detective Sheldon of the SF PD as Gardner gave that character some good dialogue.
Gardner doesn't throw blood and bullets everywhere in this novel so if you enjoy a sort of modern noir Sherlock Holmes (without a Watson and not in London), then you'd probably like this novel.
My first read with these characters. I love these old school Hard Crime ppbs!
This particular one is from the Hard Case Crime line, which made it seem like a good choice, but they obviously did a sloppy conversion job.
I want to read more of these, so I hope whoever put out the other volumes did a better job.I'm not sure how representative this volume is, but I have to say, on the basis of this particular one I'm not quite sure why it's called "Cool & Lam, cuz it's basically all Lam. Bertha only appears in the very beginning and very end and contributes nothing, just yells a lot.Lam is a little guy who gets by on his brains rather than the typical thuggish PI, which I really like about the character.
A. Fair) is the second of the "Cool and Lam" series of detective novels I have read--thanks to the folks at Hard Case Crime for reviving the series.
Books like this set a standard that many others tried to achieve and/or satirize in later years.A simple case of finding an alibi for a rich banker's son unravels a whole conspiracy involving mining and women and gangsters and gambling.
But once he connected those two characters, the conspiracy was cracked open and the killer's identity was pretty obvious.
If you're a fan of the "classic" detective genre or of Gardner's work (he also created the "Perry Mason" character), this is a book you will want to read.
A client walks into the office of Cool & Lam Investigations with a wild tale: He picked up a beautiful young redhead at a bar last Tuesday, but she slipped away from him at a second club a few hours later.
The client wants Lam to locate the two other women in order to establish his alibi.Donald Lam manages to find the girls and complete the assignment in only a couple of days, but the details don’t add up.
Another fine slice of noir from the Hard Case Crime collection, this is a long out of print edition of one of the installments of the Cool and Lam series by the creator of Perry Mason.
Although it is, according to the back cover the 13th novel in the Cool and Lam series there is really nothing here that makes it anything other than a standalone novel, you get all the relationships pretty easily, this is only natural for books which were originally meant to be cheap impulse buys in the age of pulp.

This was written by Earle Stanley Gardner under a pseudonym.. a quick read and a typical hard boiled private detective story with enough twists and turns to keep you engaged. I'd save this for summer beach reading.
So far, the two Cool & Lam books I’ve read (the other is Turn up the Heat) represent the best Hard Case Crime has to offer. Not especially gritty, sleazy or sexy, the books are pure thrills. This one was the lesser of the two but was still terrific.
This is a fun book to read. It is a stereotypical detective novel with all the characters you would expect to find. The detective is hard-nosed but gets the job done and solves a very complex crime pretty quickly. It's an easy read and it will get you involved.
