https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/878810.Spirit_Controlled_Temperament
I read this book over a decade ago and I still have the book. I found it fascinating how God works with us to change us but still allow us to keep our personalities intact. He smoothes out some of our rough edges and strengthens our best traits. It also helped me to see that different people having different strengths and weaknesses.
My basic temperament? Maestro Melancholy. Read this book to discover your temperament's stengths and weakness and how to become a better you through the power of the Holy Spirit.I also recommend "Daughters of the King" by Gail M Hayes to any woman who enjoyed this book as much as I did.
Of course, the book also helped me give grace to others, particularly those who are so unlike me that I might previously have envied their gifts while simultaneously condemning and judging them for their weaknesses--things no reasonable person would struggle with, or so I thought, because those weaknesses were not MY weaknesses.
For thirty years the insight I found here has shaped my thinking in a fundamental way.Recently, my daughter, whose temperament is so much like mine, was struggling with her own issues, and I realized it was at about the same age that I first read LaHaye's great book.
LaHaye gives a clear analysis of personalities both with and without the influence of the indwelling gift of the Holy Spirit.
To do so he utilizes the ancient four temperaments: Sanguine, Choleric, Melancholy, and Phlegmatic.
Though some would find this system archaic, LaHaye makes a clear and reasonable defense for this choice.
While this book is certainly of clinical interest for the counseling professional or student, the writing is engaging and clear enough for a layperson.
I would recommend this as a beneficial resource for anyone interested in a uniquely Christian perspective on drives the actions and style of people - themselves or others.
It may also serve as barometer of personal Spiritual maturity.
This book is an eye-opener to knowing oneself better and celebrating God's creativity in each person. Though knowing these things may lead to justifying ill behavior and the like, Dr. Tim Lahaye has provided a good balance and action prompt in taking this realizations into God's standards.
I like this book bc it showed me that some "annoying" characteristics can't be helped...it's just the way you were made. I also learned I have the most annoying characteristics!
Habla de los diferentes 4 tipos de temperamentos, sus cualidades y defectos y de cómo serían controlados por el Espíritu.
Christian NonFiction Life ChangingI would place this book, along with The 5 Love Languages: The Secret to Love that Lasts by Gary Chapman, into the must read category for any marriage.
Or for any parent for that matter.The chapter on anger is invaluable, making the book worth the price, even if that's all you read.
So many things that caused anger and hurt would have been avoided with some basic understanding of each other's temperament.Clearly presented, easy to read and biblically sound.
In fact, I recommend giving this book, plus Gary Chapman's book, as wedding presents to every bride and groom.
This was recommended to me by the pastor who married my husband and I. It was deceptively simple at first, I wasn't sure how much I'd get out of it, but it had some interesting thoughts to glean off of and the temperament method he ascribes to seems well balanced, I could easily see myself and others I'm close to in them. I occasionally found myself annoyed with his language about self-pity, but that may be more to do with my proneness to do that exactly.
I can truly say that this book help me to change my life. Learning about the four temperaments and learning how I could learn to "temper" my negative tendencies has made a profound impact on how I live.
Still reading, have an acceptance of myself now. It is ok to be me.
Maybe 40% Melancholic 25% Phlegmatic 20% Choleric, 15% Sanguine
This book was very good. I think that everyone should read it!
This was a great book! The author had an interesting point of view, made me want to read more of his non-fiction books.
This book often contradicts its self IMO another media for astrology.
This was so helpful as a young teenager. I will definitely read this again!!! Totally recommend.
Woah... amazing what one can learn about ones self.
The idea of four temperaments seems to me a bit simplistic—though, as mentioned in the book, there's value as well in such simplicity to help people distill what is immediately actionable.
Overall, I wasn't particularly drawn to the concept of the four temperaments, though certainly the book does an adequate job of differentiating each in very accessible language.
The scripture and wisdom offered for the discussion on each weakness/fruit can apply regardless of whether you agree or not with the temperament formulations themselves, given that all Christians have weaknesses to overcome and a Spirit-filled life to grow into.In sum, would take parts of the book with a grain of salt, but was refreshing to see a typology of personality melded against what the Spirit can do in relation to those personality types.
Most who know me are aware of my interest in the study of personalities.
I’m so glad I found this book because it has helped so much in applying my study to my life.
I liked the idea of temperament blends and know I’d be a SangMel. I enjoyed that the author gave biblical examples of each blend.
Lots of my questions about the Holy Spirit were answered in this book.
It has helped me feel better about my relationship with the Holy Spirit.
It has convicting chapters for this SangMel, but it has very practical instructions on how to be filled by the Spirit and freed from my hang-ups.
Excellent and potentially transformational! A must read for new and seasoned Christians alike who are seeking a more spirit life. Knowing who you are, your weaknesses and strengths, is key. Mr, LaHaye shows how every temperement can be a vessel for the work of the Lord.
gave some insight in to differing personalities and how the react to God and his message.
I do enjoy thinking about and analyzing temperaments and personalities, but tend to favor Myer-Briggs (and, more recently, DISC).That being said--I think the four temperaments LaHaye uses are difficult to pin down, which he does acknowledge.
That makes the diagnosis part a lot trickier.So I actually thought this book was weakest and most stereotypical where it was describing temperaments--but I loved the end of the book, where LaHaye goes a bit deeper into being filled with the Holy Spirit, overcoming weaknesses regardless of temperament, and sharing testimonies about what God has done.
Some of the language felt dated, but there was still a lot to glean here.
Therefore, I know I have read a similar copy by this author on temperaments of which may be this copy I am reading now.
I know there is usually not one temperament that you will fall into and usually a blend of traits but originally came about 400 years before Christ from Greek philosopher: Hippocrates, which even some have taken the Hippocratic Oath in the medical field from him.
These temperaments actually came from the BLOOD and Phlegm.
This is useful information and willingness to grow as well as change is the main reason for reading this.
We cannot grow if we do not know.
The parts of this book that have to do with the four temperaments (Sanguine, Choleric, Melancholy, Phlegmatic) are really good.
But LaHaye (yes that LaHaye) drifts a little in the middle of the book as he talks about different worldly traits (anger, fear, depression, etc.).
But he just kinda talked about them in general.The best parts of the book were the beginning and the end - when he describes the characteristics of each temperament, the possible combinations (there are 12), and then how each temperament changes with the addition of the Holy Spirit.
The greatest thing about God and his love is that the truth of it overwhelms me; the truth that no matter our weaknesses, God accepts us as we are but provides us with the power of the Holy Spirit to overcome those same weaknesses, and become all that he created us to be. This book really taught me a lot about the Holy Spirit and about myself, as well as why you can suffer from anger, fear, and depression. Great book and such a quick read!
A useful book for self understanding however, it does leave you wondering exactly where you fit into the temperament types. On the upside it says change is possible and it points out how this is possible. Also it doesn't just talk about the weaknesses or strengths of each trait, it is a well balanced book. Yet, it was a little repetative and as such i would say it is a book to dip in and out of rather than read cover to cover...
I think I read another book of his on this subject-an older one I like better. But this subject is a subject I really get into so was fun to read. It can help you with the genetically way you were mad through god to be on the positive part of your personality instead of the sinful. really helps you understand and not misunderstand-as i did to people for years-why everyone is not like "your own little world."
is it possible that my temperament has COMPLETELY changed from the time i first read this in 2001? because i was flipping through this today and realized that of all the things that stood out to me the first time, few of them are still applicable. i don't remember this being a super profound book, but interesting and a touch insightful. and kind of fun, as i'm addicted to those "personality type" tests. i may re-read to see what "temperament" i am now, 7 years later.
I first read this book about 30 years ago and remembered that I liked it. My interest was re-piqued after reading about how the Medievals viewed the temperaments in The Discarded Image by C.S. Lewis. This is a very interesting book. I liked how the author stressed the importance of having the Holy Spirit in control in order to use our temperaments for God's glory.
This was an awesome, eye-opening book. I read and discussed this with a ladies group and it really helped us to better relate to each other.You learned about the 4 temperaments, their blends, strengths and weaknesses.If you want to learn about how you operate and how to relate better with others, this is a great book to explore!
