https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8390313-twelve-against-the-gods
Bolitho hilariously depicts the rise and downfall of some of the most familiar names in world history.
Rather than being mean-spirited, though, the book's obsession with failure and foible reveals the human side of demigods.
Bringing them down to earth, we can more closely relate to them.I found this book on the stacks at the S.C. Williams Library at Stevens Institute of Technology while I was employed there - when I briefly considered attempting to read every book in the library, which is not large.
quite good.Picked this up at a book fair for 2 bucks, would not have recognized without the Elon Musk reference in the news a few days before.
Pretty scary how close I came to never reading this book. If you're short on time, you only have to read:Author's introductionAlexander the GreatCasanovaLola MontezCharles XII of Sweden(~130 pages)
This is a not just a collection of biographies of adventurers - Bolitho also tries to analyse their fates and distil the pure adventurer from the essences of Alexander the Great, Casanova, Columbus et al.The author delights in surprising contrasts; He deliberately compares Alexander the Great with Casanova, and the result isn't only to the advantage of the Macedonian king.
The language is grandiloquent and bombastic with sentences that can cover half a page and take some effort to parse The twelve characters are Alexander, Columbus, Mohammed, Lola Montez, Cogliostro&Seraphina, Charles XII of Sweden, Napoleon, Catalina, Napoleon III, Isadora Duncan and Woodrow Wilson.
Got it old and used for about U$S2. Looks interesting!
The book also covered Isadora Duncan and the very unfortunate way she passed away.
Interesting fact not in the book, Isadora and Duncan Quagmire are characters featured in Lemony Snicket’s A Series of Unfortunate Events.
They are two of the three Quagmire triplets that provides lessons on the dangers of being fashionable in a not so subtle nod to the original Isadora Duncan who is covered in this book.
There are 9 other people William Bolitho profiles in this very interesting book and I feel fortunate I finally got to read!
I didn't quite read it. I read the parts on the people that interested me. I'll try to learn more about the others, and re-read the book with those people.I don't care how good or bad the 60%+ of the book that I didn't read is. The introduction + the chapter on Alexander make a 5-star rating inevitable.
Ryan Holiday's email list12 Against the Gods: The Story of Adventure by William BolithoAs I wrote for Thought Catalog earlier this month, I picked up this book sight unseen after I saw Elon Musk recommend it.
The book was old and price was steep: $139.
There is a certain pleasure to be taken in folding the pages and writing in a 60 year old rare book and I took it.
There are some great stories in here and it fits nicely in one of my favorite genres of "moral biographies." Was there a ton new for me?
Elon Musk brought me here.
