https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131177.Hangsaman
Jackson has worked out a kind of integrated second-person commentary, often in the voicing of a news reporter, a detective or some other questioning persona--- but within the narration of the main character, Natalie: "She wanted to sing and did so, soundlessly, her mouth against the fogged window of the bus, thinking as she sang, And when I first saw Natalie Waite, the most incredible personality of our time, the unbelievably talented, vivid, almost girlish creature--when I first saw her, she was sitting in a bus, exactly as I or you might be, and for a minute I noticed nothing of her richness ...
Or maybe she would have shrugged and said yeah, obviously.Until recently Jackson was best-known for her short story The Lottery, frequently assigned in high school during a segment that invariably also includes Ray Bradbury's All Summer in a Day. Her novels are gaining recognition now, though, as she moves forward to join a cohort of savage women like Joyce Carol Oates and Muriel Spark.
She asks a lot from you, and it can be a little frustrating.The Three Shirley Jackson Books I've Read, In Descending Order Of Plot TidinessWe Have Always Lived in the Castle Haunting of Hill House Hangsaman But listen, she still has yet to write a single sentence that I haven't loved.
Foreword, by Francine Prose--Hangsaman
This doesn't even sound like a story worth reading, and that's where Jackson works some voodoo.
Even the trauma that triggers Natalie's increasingly strange psychological break doesn't "happen" in the usual sense of events unfolding on a page.
This is part of Jackson's dark magic: she gives you direct access to the experience of a deeply disturbed mind, but without the gimmicky feel of first person.
In some sense, it feels like Natalie's future self (the narrator?) is interjecting thoughts back into the past.
I found myself thinking like the narrator reporting Natalie's musings; it was disturbing.
Hangsaman is a strange novel by any standards; as if trying to remember a dream I feel the urge to write this blog quickly as I can, before it’s unique internal logic fades from my mind.
How much of this sense of threat is real and how much projected onto the world by Natalie’s precocious yet vulnerable psyche is one of the central ambiguities of the book.Right from the start it is clear Natalie has a vivid imagination; much like Eleanor from The Haunting Of Hill House, Natalie is someone whose propensity for daydreaming and fantasy seems alarmingly strong.
PATHETICALLY EXCITED to have this on the Kindle, I have a tattered old paperback with this cover: http://www.rockin-r.net/~karl/shirley...
a piece on Slate about the experience of finishing the book and Googling around in an effort to figure out what on earth it all meant.There were quite a few times in this book the protagonist's neuroses were so difficult for me to understand or relate to that I just wanted to say: oh, get over yourself.
When I started reading We Have Always Lived In The Castle, my first status update on Goodreads simply read"!"Whereas anything I might want to say about Hangsaman really just boils down to"?"
Enjoyable, weird, eerie, creepy, disjointed, dreamlike, fantastical. No more words.
Just go read Moonlight Reader's REVIEW of this book since it will make way more sense than my mutterings about things below.First, Natalie and her family are messed up.
When Natalie starts having a back and forth conversation with a police detective you don't know if Jackson is trying to allude to something that is going to happen, or it's all just in Natalie's imagination.When Natalie finally leaves for college, things get worse for her.
I think that after Natalie goes away to school things drag a bit until she meet's her professor's wife.
She's raped in the end but appears to take it in stride: she has no language, apparently, to speak of it except once, later, in passing, as "the bad thing." We are, as I mentioned above, the product of our culture--see early 1950s USA suburban Middle Class--rape was not a thing spoken of.
I bring up the facts of the novel--which I normally never do in a review--because they're all, to me, replacements for the language Natalie's not learning, at college, to speak.
The novel is mysterious because, without a proper language to speak it, Natalie's experience becomes this fragmentary series of disjointed mysteries.
Hangsaman is an uneven book, but this somehow this works to its advantage in a weird way—at times its more unwieldy passages feel right in tune with the consciousness of its troubled protagonist.
The story concerns a young girl named Natalie Waite, a smart loner type who has always been under the thumb of her well-meaning but pompous, overbearing college professor father (Jackson was a master at limning windbags like him – see also Dr. Wright in The Bird's Nest).
Hangsaman is an intense book that requires perhaps a bit of patience, but for the right reader it's a fascinating, thought provoking little mind trip.
Edit: This was not a an actual review, but a very emotional and troubled response to what was an experience rather than a proper reading. I felt this book viscerally more than just read it. I wish I'd kept at distance from it so I could have appreciated it more. I've read a couple of reviews that made me appreciate it better, and I'm thankful for that. My perspective on it is definitely skewed, so you really shouldn't base your decision on it to decide whether you should read this novel or not.
I’ve read quite a few of Shirley Jackson’s novels and stories by now and never been as spooked as I have been by this one.
For my part, the only time I’ve ever felt quite this disturbed by a novel...
I mean felt this particular register of disturbance, was when I read The Bell Jar at age sixteen or seventeen and was completely horrified to see a young woman just as, or possibly even more confused and crazy than me putting down her thoughts in book form.
This was a completely different story of course, but just as confusing somehow.
This novel, not Plath's The Bell Jar, may be the ur-text of late 20th century and early 21st century psychological realism and the fantastical realism that portrays the marginalization and alienation of young females disenfranchised with contemporary social norms and experience.Here, in Hangsaman, deeply imaginative Natalie Waite tries to shrug off an indifferent alcoholic mother, a domineering and arrogant father, and a completely indifferent brother, as well as a horrifying sexual assault, by rewriting herself in college.
Unable to master or understand the social expectations of her dormmates, she spirals into a fierce depression until she meets her soul mate-- a girl named Tony, who may or may not turn out to be real.
I vacillated between confusion (what was happening?
This is a novel of Natalie Waite, leaving her family home for college.
The blurb tells us that this novel was based on a real life disappearance of a college student in 1946.
I found myself wanting to know more about the actual disappearance, rather than reading about Natalie.
The prose is intentionally confusing, shifting POVs and scenes quickly, before you get a concrete sense of where you are and what's happening.
Natalie sometimes questions what she sees and experiences as reality, and those are the most lucid fragments of this novel.
Having read We Have Always Lived in the Castle and knowing a little of Shirley Jackson's reputation, I was expecting it turn to into a Gothic melodrama or a supernatural chiller, but even four fifths of the way through, it refused to take a shape I recognised.The first part sees Natalie Waite suffering her family at home, the second sees her suffering the poisonous student/teacher relationships at her college, then the third part...
It may be some time before I figure out how I feel about it.One more thing: in the unlikely event that anyone is reading this, does anybody know what the title means?
Hangsaman, for me at least, is one of those books that, after you finish reading, you have to look to an external source to tell you what the hell you have just read. I'm still not sure. For awhile I wasn't even sure if one of the characters, Tony, was real.It may not capture the reader to the extent that We have Always Lived in the Castle, but one cannot help but be drawn into Natalie's world of paranoia. Shirley Jackson's characters are spellbinding even if their journeys are not always.Looking forward to my next foray into Jackson's fertile mind.
The Hanged Man as depicted in the Rider-Waite-Smith Tarot Deck, originally published in 1910.Natalie draws the reader slowly and inexorably into her world, as seen through her eyes.
Jackson allows us to experience Natalie's heightened emotions and sense of expectation (always wondering will it be wonderful or terrible, the next thing that happens to me?); but these feelings are attenuated and becalmed by the light and colour and noise of the quotidian world around her.
awful.
i love shirley jackson but this was painful to get through.
i forced myself to finish it.
one wonders if it was simply published as a result of the success of the lottery and the sundial (both of which are referenced on the front and back copy of my edition), in that moment where an agent or editor flush with eagerness, and says, "you don't have anything else kicking around that we can publish now, do you?", and a writer unwisely unveils their first "great" unpublished novel, and is undone.
i will re-read something else by her soon, to wash the stain of this away.
Imagine if Henry James' Turn of the Screw met with Chuck Palahniuk's Fight Club. And turn all the men into chicks.
A very strange novel with a strong beginning (unfortunately, a very confusing end), Shirley Jackson's Hangsaman is another well-written piece of horror.
A story can get away with extreme ambiguity if it treats its characters with love and respect, which is something Jackson never has a problem doing.P.S. A couple more things...I think Shirley Jackson suffers from being marketed as horror or "terrifying" or with covers that depict nooses surrounding the protagonist or the protagonist being pursued by a sinister-looking group of white-cloaked individuals.
Shirley Jackson is most well known for The Lottery and The Haunting of Hill House, which are both pretty messed up stories that could easily be called "scary".
This was a weird little book, and I enjoyed it very much, but I’m also glad that it’s just novella sized because I doubt I could have lasted through 300 pages of Jackson’s experimental writing.
It was not an easy read, because nothing is very clear, least of all what’s real vs.
What starts out as slyly mocking and funny, eventually becomes a little sad and terrifying, especially once (view spoiler)[I realized that it’s this very tendency of Natalie’s to critically examine everyone and everything about her, viewing it/them as characters in a story, imagine them in other storylines, etc., that isolates her from the ability to form any kind of meaningful relationship and contributes to her crushing loneliness and downward spiral.
I could be completely wrong, because this is one weird little book.
My favorite Shirley Jackson book because of its mysterious nature and character development.
For me, Natalie Waite was very easy to relate to in many ways, until the appearance of Toni and the downward spiral.
While I started my senior thesis reading The Haunting of Hill House, I eventually would up reading almost all of Shirley Jackson and settled on writing about just this one novel.
I do remember though that almost none of the critical writing on the book discussing the rape.
When discussing girl names, it was no accident that Natalie Wait's name made it on the list.
(I wonder how many of the people who fired off angry letters to the New Yorker in reaction to Jackson's The Lottery found themselves pulled under its spell only a couple of days afterwards.)Hangsaman tells the story of seventeen-year-old Natalie Waite as she leaves home to start college.
And at the end, with her special friendship, there is a sense of something slipping in her relation to the world, and suddenly the novel takes on the feel of one of Ms. Jackson's short stories, where the reality of the situation is indeterminate, unnerving.
In the first part, Natalie lives with her egotistical father, self-depracating mother, and indifferent brother where they host a party and she is possibly sexually assualted, but Jackson provides no answers.
As strange as I found Tony's character, the final pages build into a chilling climax where Natalie's journey far away from the college parallels her inner journey where she must face herself and confront her fears.
Natalie doesn't know who she is and the whole book follows her confusion and stifling self-consciousness and makes the reader identify with the uncomfortable uncertainty of being an adolescent.
It's amusing how the publishers of the early paperback (pulp) versions of this novel tried to make it look like simple suspense, and though it is suspenseful, it's not in the way most contemporary horror or mystery would be, and I'm sure many people were disappointed back in the day.
As usual, what makes it a pleasure is Jackson's pristine writing, prose so lovely and clean you can actually feel it uncluttering (that's not a word, I don't think) your brain (or maybe this is just me).
Sometimes we're left, literally, in the dark.Weeks later, I'm still thinking about Natalie and her strange, harrowing first semester at college.
There are so many Shirley Jackson books out there, so many more than I knew about initially. I stayed with this book longer than I might have if it wasn't written by Shirley Jackson. I'm not always jazzed about reading from the POV of an unreliable narrator and Natalie in particular feels dangerous in her inability to distinguish real from unreal. Overall, reading this book made me wish that she was alive and writing today where talking about unseemly topics wouldn't be quite so verboten- if it's rape call it rape. Keep the subtlety but lose the subterfuge.
Staggering, harrowing, but also very funny in places. A coming of age novel, filled with deeply unpleasant characters, and freighted with tragedy and occult significance. Jackson's prose is sublime.
3.5 stars.
Love Jackson's writing style and there were sections here I adored - especially the lecturer and his young drunk wife. Set in college in the 1950s, can't help to compare it to the Bell Jar, but it's far crazier and weirder. Kinda didn't really know what was going on there at the end - but I guess that's part of it....The writing IS gorgeous, but it didn't grab me as much as her other books.
