https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/657371.Tweak
It angers me that this kid got a book deal because he has connections and has a marketable "story," because if this book is supposed to be insight into the drug addicted mind, it fails miserably.
I would so much rather read a story about a street kid drug addict who has a *real* story - someone who didn't grow up knowing famous people and having money or brand names.
I am *only* giving the book one star so that the poor rating gets added to the average.
I tried reading this book after reading Beautiful Boy and I couldn't get through it.
Come on.However, it was interesting to read the opposite side of this story after reading Beautiful Boy. Nick is more honest than his father about the root of his problems, but I found it too emotionally heavy and the flashbacks too frenetic.
Also, the pseudonym name dropping of stars or famous people that he is/was linked to by 1 or 2 degress becomes annoying.I'm sure I'm in the minority in my opinion of this book, but I think this book sells itself more on shock value than a well-crafted story.
I heard about Tweak/Beautiful Boy through the provocative NY Times book review a few months ago.
The idea of having such a harrowing story told from two opposite perspectives really piqued my interest.Tweak is nothing if not engaging.
I do not think Nic is a hero, but I also don't think of him as the spoiled-brat-who-threw-everything-away, as other reviewers have suggested.
Nic's experiences detail a very dark side of humanity that seemed almost too easy to slip into.
While Nic's behavior on drugs violates even the most frayed of moral fibers, at no point did I ever dislike him.
Nic hadn't planned on relapsing that day, his life was working "I'd made so much progress" but without a second thought Nic picks up right up where he left off and in a matter of 32 days loses everything...
As readers we finally get to see sober Nic. Following him on his obsessively long bike rides and feeling his excitement as he begins to write and reconnect with his family.
On day 278 Nic gets a call from Zelda, the love of his life and despite warnings from friends and family Nic can't stay away from her.
A book in need of an editor. But maybe that is the definition of an out of control life of a teenage/young twenty drug addict, a life in need of an editor.
I just wanted to choke the guy. Shows addiction in a brutally honest way, but had to keep putting the book down.
This book is amazing because it gives a firsthand account on the struggles and experiences someone has to overcome in their journey to sobriety.
For all the accounts his father gives of staying up late, agonizing over the days Nic was missing, we get a first-hand account of what was happening behind the scenes.
Such a worthwhile and important read, especially coupling it with David Sheff's book written from a father's perspective.
As an adult reader, this is a sad and difficult book with many difficult-to-absorb scenes.
I'd rate a hard R for explicit sex and drug use scenes, frequent swearing, thematic elements, violence, and peril.
Honestly after reading Beautiful Boy this book was a let down. I felt our writer was one of the most selfish, self-inflated narrative voices I have read in a long time. By the end of the book I hated the kid--and found that he glamorized and legitimized his meth addiction. I am curious if this book was only published thanks to Nic's father's connections. A cliched story of an addict who really is too concerned with his California land of plastic existence. Barf. I am sure the movie starring so greasy-ball Hollywood actor will be out soon.
I don't mean to put down other people's opinions but you all are being incredibly harsh.
And to say that throughout some of the book, he's putting the blame on other people is wrong and you've obviously misunderstood.
He looked up to his father a great deal.
Different families have different ways of raising their children.
I love how Nic's father was so open with his son.
He taught him the way of life.
I loved this book, and I think Nic Sheff is absolutely inspiring and an incredible writer.
If you look up DOUCHEBAG in the dictionary, you're likely to see this guy under the main entry.
I love memoirs about addiction, they are fascinating and usually serve as a nice reality check whenever my often troubled mind veers into darker territories.
Sheff spends a lot of time boasting about how great a writer he is, which is strange because this book reads like an immature 14 year old wrote it.
This is like the Twilight version of addiction memoirs: shallow and mind numbingly frustrating.
Don't buy his terrible books and feed into his habit.
Story of an addict's life.
The detail of the starfucker who immediately plugged the names of speakers at Hollywood meetings into imdb.com to see whether or not they were big shots was amusing, tho....but it's more like a Hollwood-novel detail.
"When the shots are strong enough you get this feeling like your head is just pounding with energy.
Become one with the bugs.'"I tell her what I think of that idea."I really have to wonder how this guy writes -- some other reviews mentioned hearing him speak on NPR et al, and apparently he sounds just like his writing style.
Nic flushes his life down the toilet, claws his way back, and you cheer for him, but he relapses and ruins his life again.I want to read the next book he wrote but if he got with Zelda again I'd be SO FRUSTRATED and I'd YELL at the book and people would see me do this.Also his father's book Beautiful Boy is good too.
Nic Sheff, you are totally worth it as a person and it's good that you wrote this book and it probably has helped many people struggling with drug addictions and finding their place in the world.
From what I have read, there is no worse drug addiction than crystal meth.
It occurred to me as I was reading TWEAK that the book was like a cleanser for Nic; a way to cleanse his soul.
For the most part, I stand in the camp that believes that drug and alcohol addictions are diseases.
Nic is never going to escape the addict label even if he does remain clean the rest of his life.
Nic's father, David Sheff, also has written a book about meth addiction.
Ultimately, the book ends up reading like a cliche that we've read and seen and heard too many times to make it fresh anymore.
And although the book is "true," there are some facts in the book that don't add up and add an air of questionability to the whole story (for example, sometimes the dates don't add up; another example is when Sheff states that his friend Yakuzo lives in a house in Brentwood - then a few pages later, she suddenly lives in a high-rise condo building elsewhere).
I'm still waiting to read his father's book, "Beautiful Boy," but I wonder what, if anything, that will lend to this story.
This is the memoir by Nic Sheff that accompanies his father, David's, memoir.
The book is an extremely honest look at addiction written by an addict, Nic Sheff.This book is heavy emotionally.
That first hit/injection is a choice, but after that...The final ten pages, as Nic goes through therapy with his parents, are an emotional roller-coaster.
You're there with the father (especially after reading his book, "Beautiful Boy") in his anger and love.Having lost a friend to drugs I found this book like a therapy session.
Never has meth addiction seemed so boring.
Or as Nic Sheff, with his fondness for trifold redundancies, would put it: boring, boring, boring.
Sheff wants so badly to be the next dark, dangerous, and doomed druggy genius, but he's going to have clean up more than his act if he ever wants to belong in the same company as Burroughs, Bukowski, Miller, et al.
Not that I doubt Nic Sheff is or was a drug addict; I guess it just seems like he's trying too hard to become one of his heroes.
He is not the writer that his father is, but hearing his voice, so clearly the voice of a damaged soul, and also possibly a narcissist, fills out the picture.
In its own way, this book was hard to put down, despite its shortcomings.
(Poor editing?) I gained a great deal of insight into the devastation of addiction.
And I find that helpful in many ways.
Despite all the damage he wrought and his desperate struggles to go straight, poor Nic stills sounds pitifully proud of just how down and dirty he got.
His journey through addiction isn’t over yet.
I truly enjoyed this book.
I had just finished Beautiful Boy, which is written by this author's father regarding and is about his son's (the author of Tweak, Nic's) battle with drug addiction prior to picking up Tweak.
Both books were compelling and it was amazing to read about the same story from the son's perspective after reading about the experience from his father's perspective - a rare experience.
i consumed the first half in a haze not unlike the author's, which is to say, without feeling or emotion or time spent considering my reasoning.
there is no reason to read this book, it is pointless masturbation & it isn't even well-crafted.
i mean, it drives me crazy.] the only reason it earned a 2nd star is because it confirms my beliefs that everyone in the greater LA area is a shallow, worthless, junkie starfucker.[update: people sometimes write "of" when they mean "'ve." as in, "he aksed me to go; i should of." this drives me fucking CRAZY.
First, it clearly reveals the seedy, dangerous and horrific underbelly of drug abuse and addiction in American cities.It's hard to say if it is by design, but you begin the book expecting to feel sympathy for Nic and his drug addiction, but as you ride the roller coaster of addiction, sobriety, and relaspe with him, you begin to feel the frustration that his parents must feel.
By the end of the book, I felt like his parents--frustrated, skeptical of his sobriety, and basically just tired of dealing with/reading about him.
This was a very heartbreaking story. I felt bad for Nic and his battle to stay sober . I read Beautiful Boy which was written by Nic Sheffs dad told from his point of view. I was very curious to hear the story from Nic's point of view. It was interesting to say the least.
I like to re-read this one every now and then in between 'big reads' as it has an easy flow and the author, a drug addict, has some wild escapades.
3.5 | reading this was very interesting to me because a lot of the time i found myself relating to nic and his thoughts, which i wasn’t expecting to.
it was very easy for me to empathize nic and his struggles, and my heart ached every time he relapsed.
after reading his memoir and his father’s novel, i’ve been reading articles about nic, and he seems like just a nice, kind, sweet man.
nic is so brave for sharing his story, and it gives me hope that the people in my life who are struggling with drugs will have a successful recovery.
In fact, it doesn't start until he's in his early 20's and the worst of his drug use sounds like it was in college.
He uses a mixture of meth and heroin through half of the book but most of the time he uses whatever is available.
When I brought this fact up she said, "Oh yeah, it's really not about meth at all.
I wanted a book about a teenager like mine, who had a rough start in life and got sucked into the world of meth and what it was like.
This book was actually written in response to a book by David Sheff called Beautiful Boy, about the experience of dealing with his son's addiction(s) and their consequences for his family.The first third of Tweak is a demonstration of the kind of depraved lifestyle Nic's addiction leads to—a study of how quickly an addict can move down the downward spiral to the point where he or she will do absolutely anything for drugs, or money for drugs.
The story starts with Nic Sheff running around the streets as a twenty-something looking for drugs with his loser friends.
It seems more like the mark of a middle-of-the-road writer.At the end of the book Sheff is trying to convince his parents that what he went through, with the drugs and all, was just as hard for him as it was for them.
Between the beginning of Nic's story and his eventual (failed) first attempt at rehab, not much happens that you wouldn't expect to happen to anyone making the decisions that Sheff makes.
I’m having a hard time organizing my feelings about this book.
Personally, I found Nic’s writing style repetitive and difficult to read.
Moreover, I was continually struck by the incredible (and largely unacknowledged) privilege that impacted Nic’s experience with drug addiction and recovery.
Not once in the 336 pages he wrote about his life did he meaningfully reflect about the ways in which money, social status, gender, and the color of his skin affect his addiction and recovery process.
I am in no way trying to diminish or invalidate Nic’s suffering and experiences.
In order to save you some time and cash, here's how it goes..."I'm going to steal from you, entice the people you love to do this satanic drug with me and take apart anything that has value so that it'll be all fucked up in a heaping mess in the corner.
I'm going to sneak around at night, climb in and out of windows instead of using the door and when I run out of shit and money I'm going to place myself on your couch as a centerpiece for your living room and sleep for 7 days straight.""If you loved me, you'd see that I'm sick and need help""Thank you for helping me.
This book is best if you want to read and understand how the human mind can lie to you and take you to a place you think you want back is actually a step away from hell.
My least favorite is the main character (Nic) because although he "learns from his mistake" and "gets sober" throughout the book, he STILL ends up fucking everyone over and relapsing.
The book finally gets good when Nic is in a rehab you can't get into unless you want to, and you can't leave it until you're ready.
It's the sort of book where you're hating it so much that you're angry as you read, but can't stop because you have to find out if there is anything redemptive about it at all.
Instead Nic Sheff offers the poorly written story of a bratty, privileged kid who finds himself sucked back into his addictions-- sex, heroin, meth, celebrity status-- over and over again with a mind-bogglingly forgiving family helping him pick up his life every single time; told with a detachment and petulance I found infuriating.There is literally nothing good about this book.
