https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9523331-the-astonishing-adventure-of-jane-smith
I've been enjoying Patricia Wentworth's early stories, but didn't think this was as good as some of the others.
The plot is completely bonkers, involving fiendish anarchists, lookalike cousins and secret passages galore.
(To be fair, the Dean Street Press title mentions both elements!)I always like Wentworth's characters and way of writing, and enjoy her romantic elements.
This was quite a fun read as usual, but I am starting to find some of these stories a bit too samey, so should probably give them a rest for a bit in order to really enjoy them again!
Wentworth started out writing historicals, and then switched to mysteries. Since this was the first of that run, and the last couple of Wentworths I read of this period were pretty drear, I wasn't expecting a great deal. But this was one of the best Wentworths of the adventure/espionage style. Plenty of onward action, and Jane is absolutely redoubtable and competent in a way that I wish I encountered more often.Recommended for anyone who likes a bit of period adventure.
Fine spy-thriller with a smart, practical, and bold young heroine who seems quite contemporary for a book written in 1923. I would love to see a film version.
Enjoyable and exciting.
Typical Golden Age thriller material. Jane Smith, as the name implies, is a very ordinary girl, but of course she gets caught up in a huge conspiracy. Improbabilities abound, including identical cousins, secret laboratories, mysterious organisations - all the usual items. Wentworth writes with verve and observation, so it's easy to suspend disbelief. It really is a rattling good yarn.
Started out fun, but Wentworth ended up treating what should have been a McGuffin as an actual plot point, which made the ending of the book somewhat dull. It didn't turn out quite so anti-feminism/socialism as I'd expected.
This highly unlikely story was just an average read for me and took me a long time to finish. Probably more like 2 1/2 stars.The spunky English heroine takes over for her identical cousin, who had become caught up in nastiness with anarchists totally against her will and who was a bit of a wet blanket. There are mad plans for world domination, hidden passages, evil villains and manly heroes trying to save the day.
This is so, so good. It's a thriller-mystery, not a murder mystery and there's a distinct air of the 39 steps about it. Once I actually sat down to it and gave it a proper go, I raced through it. Now I need to read more from Patricia Wentworth...
