https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77013.As_I_Lay_Dying
I know you're "supposed to" love this book because it's Faulker, but I HATED IT! I know you're "cool" and "intelligent" if you read Faulkner, but I can't stand him. Sorry, I don't know what he's talking about (and at the risk of sounding immodest, I am bright). I DON'T think it's cool and "hip" to write in a confusing manner, and I don't try to impress others by liking ambiguity. I had my fill in college with snobs who pretended to like this stuff. Sorry I sound harsh here (I'm really a nice person), but YUK!
He drops us into scenes and scenarios without any explanation; I genuinely felt like Faulkner wanted to deliberately confuse his readers about characters and ideas he could have easily portrayed in a more accessible way.
Fifteen perspectives tell the story of the family's journey to Jefferson, where Addie is to be buried.
Faulkner includes important themes in his work, such as religion, poverty and identity in the Southern United States, but I still feel like other authors have done this in a more palatable way.
I would much rather read Steinbeck any day.One reviewer said this of Faulkner's style and I couldn't agree more:
This is one of Faulkner's true masterpieces: a grotesque road trip with a rotting corpse told in the voices of the extremely dysfunctional and occasionally insane family members.
It is Ulysses in the Southern United States, or a Georgian Grapes of Wrath (Faulkner having been inspired by the former and certainly influenced the latter).
Αυτό το «καθώς»είναι που προσδίδει τόσο βαθύ μυστήριο και πόνο λες και συγκεντρώνει το νόημα και την ουσία όλης της ανθρώπινης ύπαρξης την ώρα του επιθανάτιου ρόγχου.
Καθώς γεύεται το μυστικό του θανάτου που του ψιθυρίζει λόγια ανείπωτα και απαγορευμένα σε όσους δεν βρεθούν στην ίδια κατάσταση.
Όλη η οικογένεια έχει απο ένα ένοχο μυστικό,απο μια ανομολόγητη αμαρτία και προς εξιλέωση όλων τους ξεκινούν αυτή τη νεκρική πομπή που διασχίζει τον Αμερικανικό νότο και φέρνει στην επιφάνεια κάθε είδους ανθρώπινης συνείδησης και αισθητικής.
Δεν επιστρέφουν όλοι πίσω μετά απο αυτή την νεκρική πορεία.
Τι είναι αυτό που σε κάνει και γελάς;" του λέω.
Anse is the 'woe is me' type and Addie is the 'Serve your purpose and die' type and that's all well and good, and it's a pretty cool idea for a book, I just don't like Faulkner.
Writing is about making a connection to a stranger, bridging a gap of confusion to create understanding and to share an idea, a theme, an image with thousands or millions of people who you've never met.
Faulkner writes in jargon he understands with little to no respect for the reader and I can't forgive him for it.
All the short chapters are headed up with a character name, and it kind of naturally seems as if that character is narrating, but a) only occasionally could you call anything in this book stream of consciousness, and even then it’s nothing at all like our old beloved friends Virginia Woolf or James Joyce because these interior monologues come at you in perfectly formed and mostly graceful sentences; and b) The chapters obey no consistent rules or they change the rules all the time which is the same thing, so that in the middle of a paragraph it is suddenly the author’s omniscient voice popping up.
THIS BOOK IS ABOUT HICKS THEY GO TO TOWN

And that’s because Faulkner isn’t actually hinting at events to come; he’s showing us something we can’t understand without promises of future textual elucidation.
Only one character, Darl’s older brother Cash, recognizes that Darl may not actually be crazy:Sometimes I aint so sho who’s got ere a right to say when a man is crazy and when he aint…It’s like it aint so much what a fellow does, but it’s the way the majority of folks is looking at him when he does it.Exactly.
As I mentioned in a review for The Sound and the Fury, Faulkner is ripe for rereads because it’s inevitable that seeming irrelevancies and ambiguous character interactions from the first read will take on new meanings when you’re equipped with knowledge of the whole story.
That feeling when you try to describe a book, and all the adjectives you come up with are negative, and yet the story has such power, and you loved it, like life.That feeling when you are not sure what to read next, because whatever you pick will carry some of the flavour of the sorrow and the hopelessness and the sadness and the excruciatingly unfair black comedy of uneducated, poor, religious life.That feeling when the novel spills over into real life and makes you hear your heart beat for people that may not exist, but that are more real than many of your neighbours.
I am feeling totally inadequate to the task of reviewing this book.
It's only the second Faulkner I've read, and while I enjoyed Absalom, Absalom, it didn't quite utterly astound me the way this one did.
I was expecting the run-on sentences and outright rejection of periods that I found in the first book.
Instead, I found short little chapters, and voices that spoke in terse sentences that only hinted at what lay beneath.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook

With Addie only just buried, Anse forces Dewey Dell to give up her money, which he spends on getting "new teeth", and marries the woman from whom he borrowed the spades.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز چهاردهم ماه فوریه سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: گور به گور؛ نویسنده: ویلیام فاکنر؛ مترجم: نجف دریابندری؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1371؛ در 250 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1382؛ شابک: 9643621936؛ چاپ چهارم 1386؛ شابک: 9789643621933؛ چاپ پنجم 1387؛ چاپ هفتم 1389؛ چاپ نهم 1391، در 304 ص؛ چاپ دهم 1393؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مجناب نجف دریابندری؛ در یادداشتی می‌نویسند: «گور به گور» عنوانی‌ ست که من روی این رمان گذاشته‌ ام، زیرا نتوانسته‌ ام عنوان اصلی آن را به عبارتی که خود بپسندم به فارسی درآورم.
Unmistakingly Faulkner. A unique writing style combined with a sad and haunting story. You may read Faulkner and say when you are finished, "I didn't like that", but you will never forget what you read.Reread Sept. 2016
(Pre)DMCA violations were definitely afoot, at least in spirit.This is the book for those who find Faulkner's other well known works to be intimidating.
The endless chapters that trap one within the other books in a way that doesn't allow for natural stopping points within the text for bathroom or laundry breaks are eschewed in favor of shorter sections that are each narrated by a member of the Bundren family or else a random, curious onlooker about town.
Word on the (back cover blurb) street is that Faulkner cranked out this book over a six week period while working twelve hour shifts at a power plant.
On her death, almost every character is put into some kind of ordeal: the holy father coming to ask for forgiveness from so-far-faithful husband, her daughter trying to abort her pregnancy, the first son with a broken horse, the second son struggling to give a decent burial to his not-so-loving mother, the third son sacrificing his only possession which, in others’ view, is also his mother – a horse, the youngest one trying to keep the buzzards and cats away from the coffin, and Anse pushing everyone to uphold his promise.
همه "خشم و هیاهو" رو به عنوان اثر اصلی ویلیام فاکنر حساب می کنن.
ولی بشخصه، از این داستان خیلی بیشتر از خشم و هیاهو لذت بردم.
شیوه ی روایت، با تکه پاره های ذهنی افراد مختلف که گاه باید تلاش می کردی تا بفهمی راوی کیه و چه اتفاقی داره میفته، خیلی بهتر از تک گویی طولانی و کمابیش حوصله سر بر بنجی عقب مانده و کوئنتین روان پریش بود.
توی هر دو رمان، نویسنده آدم رو به یه بازی دعوت میکنه: "اگه گفتی چی دارم میگم؟" و توی این رمان، این بازی هیجان انگیزتره و آدم انگیزه ی بیشتری برای حلّ این پازل داره.و ترجمه، ترجمه، چی بگم از ترجمه؟
She is propped on the pillow, with her head raised so she can see out the window, and we can hear him every time he takes up the adze or the saw.
If we were deaf we could almost watch her face and hear him, see him.
Her eyes are like two candles when you watch them gutter down into the sockets of iron candle-sticks.
"My mother is a fish."Faulkner's short novel about a rural family following the death of their matriarch. Funny, disturbing, maddening, thought provoking, and mysterious. I have never been a big fan of stream of consciousness ( thus I have never finished The Sound and the Fury) and Faulkner does well to limit that technique here. He does employ multiple narrators, varying perspectives, themes and an eclectic narration. I cannot help thinking this is a thin, minimalistic American version of War and Peace.

کورا برای من دعا کرد، چون خیال می کرد من گناه رو نمی بینم، می خواست من هم زانو بزنم دعا کنم، چون آدم هایی که گناه به نظرشون فقط چند کلمه است، رستگاری هم به نظرشون فقط چند کلمه استفکر کردم گناه و عشق و ترس فقط صداهایی هستند که آدم هایی که نه گناه کرده اند و نه عشق بازی کرده اند و نه ترسیده اند از خودشون در می آرند برای چیزی که هرگز نه داشته اند و نه می تونن داشته باشند، الا وقتی اون کلمه ها رو فراموش کنند
Le mani di Addie ad aggrapparsi come radici sulla coperta, le sue ossa che si intravedono sotto la pelle, gli occhi come due candele quando le guardi sciogliersi nello scodellino di un candeliere di ferro hanno fatto resto.Ogni capitolo scandito da un narratore diverso, che si ripete, racconta la lunga odissea, dalla agonia della madre morente al suo seppellimento, ben nove giorni dopo nella terra che l'ha concepita.
Είναι σάμπως μέσα στον καθένα μας να βρισκόταν ένας άλλος άνθρωπος που να ήταν πέρα από τα όρια της φρονιμάδας ή της τρέλας, και που όντας μάρτυρας στις λογικές και στις μη λογικές πράξεις μας, να τις έκρινε με την ίδια φρίκη και το ίδιο σάστισμα.
Νιώθω ότι αν διάβαζα το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο σε πιο μικρή ηλικία κατά πάσα πιθανότητα δε θα είχα συνδεθεί μαζί του.
Ένα βιβλίο για την απώλεια και για τις συναισθηματικές εξάρσεις που αυτή δημιουργεί στα πρόσωπα που αφορά, για τη διαχείριση του πένθους.
Για τους βιβλιόφιλους σε ετοιμότητα για αναγνωστικές προκλήσεις είναι ένα βιβλίο που πρέπει να διαβαστεί τουλάχιστον μια φορά στη ζωή σας και να κοσμεί τις βιβλιοθήκες σας.
My admittance of this book's awesome should stand for something considering I's tubborn as a *ahem* mule, and had for no particularly sound (or honestly even remotely thought out) reason been somewhat avoiding Faulkner for years.
1) This is not as hard to read as people act like, especially if you've already acclimated yourself to southern phonetics via other sogawth (that's my internet shorthand for "Southern Gothic", shorthand is cool to kids these days, right?) authors who forgo spallin and sitch in favor of accent authenticity.
These...days?)2) Not naming any names, but karen should consider giving this one another chance.
but god, once I adjusted, I was completely floored.
It also seems to be a story which is honest and completely unembellished- the characters are presented as they are, even if they're unlikable at first or even banal.
After reading this, I've become convinced that there are two kinds of people in the world; those who like Faulkner, and those who don't.Edit: After reading this book for the second time, I'm more convinced than ever of its power and genius.
Fucking Faulkner!
This is a book necessary for life.
تازه پوستت رو می کنند که چرا منظورشون رو اون جوری فهمیدی!" "گور به گور" روایت پیچیده ای از مرگ مادر یک خانواده است که با تکنیک "جریان سیال ذهن" نوشته شده.
داستان بوسیله پونزده تا شخصیت مختلف روایت میشه و برای من درک این شیوه روایی بسیار مشکل بود.
پدر خانواده هم عاشق زنی میشه که از اون بیل و کلنگ برای دفن همسر خودش قرض گرفته بوده.
ضمناً فکر نمیکنم ترجمه همچنین روایت پیچیده ای بجز از مترجمی مثل نجف دریا بندری ساخته باشه.
Από τις σπάνιες περιπτώσεις συγγραφέων που καταφέρνουν να ζωντανέψουν το κλίμα της εποχής και μαζί τον ψυχισμό των ανθρώπων. Ένας Φώκνερ το χρόνο είναι ότι πρέπει.
I needed about thirty pages to get into Faulkner’s rhythms (and, uh, finally figure out that each chapter was narrated by the character titling said chapter), but once I caught onto the cadence I read the novel in four feverish days sequestered in one of my second floor’s air conditioned bedrooms.
While I don’t I want to read any Faulkner now, too intense one after the other, this novel elicited physical reactions I can’t quite describe.
The Bundrens may be human beings, related to the rest of us by species, but holy shit, I sure hope they’re distant family.I know more of Faulkner’s literary progeny (e.g. Cormac McCarthy) then of Faulkner.
I got to realize how significantly communication can differ from spoken to written, with all the words we mispronounce, the structures we shorten and the grammar we defy, which is basically the beauty of how language keeps changing; but for me, it was puzzling at first trying to find a way to make some sentences readable for the researchers who would later read them, and to know what punctuation mark would suit better.
I respect Faulkner, but I can't say I love him.
What that something was, I'm still figuring out.The novel tells the story of the Bundren family in their quest to bury their recently deceased (well, she's alive but on her death bed when the story opens) mother, Addie.
And if you thought your family was dysfunctional, you haven't read enough Faulkner yet.
Not Anse, who is too mule-headed and self-centered to make good choices for his family.
Faulkner is so good at taking you inside the mind that sometimes you're not even sure what exactly the character is actually thinking about.
