https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12540.Operating_Instructions
Throughout Operating Instructions, one finds scatterings of an understanding that there’s something not quite consistent about preaching love, mercy, and non-judgmentalism while simultaneously ripping apart Republicans as a group, actively training one’s child to revile them, and comparing them to the greatest of evils.
Lamott employs so many impressive analogies for faith, stories and descriptions that demonstrate the tentativeness, the tenderness, the necessity, the beauty, the not-quite-sufficient sufficiency, the depth, and the difficulty of faith – how faith is like waiting, expectantly, half-hopefully, for our next operating instructions from God.
I teach at Creighton University, and so (like most instructors) was appalled when Lamott was "disinvited," but never more than after I read this book.
It's been a long time since I've laughed out loud while reading a book, and longer since a book has provoked guffaws (seriously, hearty laughter) AND reflection, revelation, and grief.
I'm not a mother, and I don't know about the whole God thing, but wow, did this book arrest my movement through life and give me some things to think about.

A friend of mine gave me a copy of this book while I was pregnant, and he never knew what a favor he truly did for me.Anne Lamott writes all the gritty details of the thoughts that go through any sleep deprived parent's mind, but we aren't ever brave enough to admit them, sometimes not even to ourselves.Having already read about some crazy lady (Anne Lamott) wondering if she could leave her baby out in the cold and see if that whole "survival of the fittest" thing would work out, I was far more forgiving when I hadn't slept in weeks and found myself daydreaming about similar psychotic scenarios.
I’m about to get all “over-the-top” in this review.I needed this book right now, with all it’s one-lines that make me laugh out loud.
He falls asleep and I feel I could die of love when I watch him, and I think to myself that he is what angels look like.
I’m going to give this book to every friend of mine who has a kid - which is most of them - so that they don’t feel so alone when they think their baby has a reptilian head.
While I acknowledge that feeling overwhelmed is very real for some mothers, especially those without a partner (myself included in the latter category), reading "Operating Instructions" gave me a dark feeling, somewhat akin to the feeling that reading Dostoevsky causes (minus the mastery of the prose).
I think a lot of her issues stem from the self-acknowledged substance abuse problems of the past and losing her father some years earlier though, not from having a baby on her own.
All in all, I would much rather read a positive, upbeat book written by somebody who is capable of maintaining self-discipline and organizing their lives than an author who aims at being brutally honest but really sounds like another common wreck of a person.
This is a great, lovely book about having a newborn.
I had a blast reading it because I don’t have a newborn anymore (a three & a half-year-old is a whole other flavor of getting your ass kicked) & it’s easy to have fond feelings about G's babyhood that are based on totally false recollections.
"Remember when we could just set him on the couch & he couldn't go anywhere?
This is such a wonderful book & I am absolutely never having another baby.
Oh how I wish I had read this book when my children were babies! Then perhaps I would have realized I was not alone in finding new motherhood so hard while loving my children so unbearably much. Annie Lamott just nails it.
Even if you have never been a parent, your kids have grown up, read this for the sheer pleasure of it.
a few things were laugh-outloud-funny, a lot of things were kind of ridiculous. Having a new little dude ourselves, certainly there were moments and events I could relate to, but the self-absorbed self-deprecating thing got really tiresome for me. Also, yes, I get it, you belong to a predominately black church; move on.
Operating Instructions is presented in the form of a journal, excerpted from the personal journal she kept during her first year of motherhood.From the beginning I am impressed by Lamott’s ability to openly discuss her fears about bringing a child into the world.
Either it’s not as hard as I imagine, or all these people are heroes.What Anne Lamott has that I lack is faith in God. This is a beautiful part of her narrative, as lovely and sustaining as her boundless love for her child and the unshakable support of friends, family, and community.
Somehow, Lamott vividly portrays this overwhelming, complex feeling of love, pain, hope, fear, and awe without idealizing motherhood or her baby.
I myself had a significant amount of postpartum anxiety, such as bursting into tears at the thought of bringing my five-day-old son to the doctor when it was about 2 degrees outside, but Anne's daily journal helped me see what it must be like to have the full-blown depression.
Her anxieties about her son sounded so familiar, like the way she would start obsessing about what she would do if her son grew up to be a Republican, but how she mostly just prays and prays that he outlives her.This book made me a little jealous of Lamott, as she has a job that allowed her to stay home with her baby.
When you pick up this book you tend to think it's about her son's first year of life right?
Her political and other ranting is a huge part of the book no matter how she tries to slide it in with readers none the wiser.
The other big thing that pisses me off here is that she's not funny.
If someone writes a book that I think sucks I'm not going to rate it highly and review it with glowing accolades because I may happen to agree with the author on some idea.

Reviewers swore up & down that even if I thought Anne Lamott was an ape-shit mother-in-law, I'd like her as a mom.
She talks TWICE about her hair being nappy, like black people's, and how she's so glad her son got white people hair.
Especially the part where she makes a joke about how hard an uncut baby penis would be to clean - proving that she has no idea what the hell she's talking about, and also she's kind of a bitch.
She spent the entire book complaining about not having a partner to raise her son with, even though she knew that beforehand.
This is easily the third or fourth time this month I have written a multiple-page review only to have it deleted when I click on the "save" button.
Let me begin again...I love this book.
I love this author.
As the primary caretaker of my child and a male, perhaps it hit me harder, but......All men like staring at themselves erect in a mirror?
All men make machine gun noises while they pee?
All men are emotionally bereft and unable to be complete?
Otherwise, I love this book and this author, but I will not close my eyes to bigotry even if it is reverse discrimination.....
This should be required reading for all new moms -- especially once that third week -- and the reality of how much your life has changed with this new person in it -- comes along.Loved this line in particular: “One thing about having a baby is that each step of the way you simply cannot imagine loving him any more than you already do, because you are bursting with love, loving as much as you are humanly capable of- and then you do, you love him even more.”
Tremendously funny, warm, and full of hope. Anne Lamott’s winsome, honest approach to motherhood (especially as a single mother) is inspirational without being cheesy or cheap. She infuses a deep sense of grace, toward herself and others, and her spirit is a rare gift. Highly recommended to any parents or people pondering parenthood.
It took me about a year to read this book. It is filled with so many familiar moments and milestones, described so accurately. She spends quite a bit of time crying over Bush (Sr.!) and mentions Donald Trump. History repeats itself so frequently. Also, it takes place in 1989 so as soon as I got excited about the World Series I got so worried about the earthquake.
In Anne Lamott's OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS: A JOURNAL OF MY SON'S FIRST YEAR, you find phrases and sentences that give your false teeth some delicious, chewable morsels and poke a few neurons in your brain and jump-start the battery in your pacemaker.
Yet when I think about those days, I don't find myself imitating Mary Hopkin singing "Those Were the Days" -- because, even without having kept a diary, I know that we didn't "sing and dance forever and a day" or "live the life we choose" or "fight and never lose." No, THOSE days were not those days -- for me or for Lamott.
Lamott's work is not the set of "operating instructions" that no new parent gets.
And I'm thrilled I did, because I loved this book!It was a very fast read.
I mean it was fast-paced and I felt like I had to speed-read to keep up.
It was an interesting feeling, being whipped through at the speed that I'm sure life felt like to Ms. Lamott.
I was sad I was reading the book alone so I couldn't read bits of it out loud to someone.
Even someone like me who has only babysat understands the feeling of ricocheting between hatred and the purest love, when dealing with an infant.
I liked Bird by Bird and a couple of her novels a lot better than this.It's written as if it really were Lamott's journal, and maybe that's true.
It's like she goes out of her way to point out how many people in her life aren't white when it's not critical to the narrative.
I think it's fine that she tells us who is black and who is not, but she could have come up with a lot more adjectives to describe her church friends' personalities than "really black." Her son Sam was born in 1989, but I don't think that the copyright date on this book is old enough to excuse the weird treatment of race.
Her fabulous humor, her honest portrayal of the first year of being a mother, her honesty about her baby not having a father, her grief at her friend's diagnosis, the way she hysterically talks about Republicans, the support so many give her, and especially her true deep belief in a loving God (though it completely contrasts with who she is) and watching her faith ebb and flow.What is not so good?
That she mostly talks about raising her son for the first year and while I enjoyed that, and felt a connection to her, I sort of felt like, been there, done that...it gets better and worse in lots of ways, life goes on.
My lust for books that are about motherhood has led me to "Operating Instructions: A Journal of My Son's First Year" by Anne Lamott.
This book chronicles the experience of Anne's first year as a new mother.
Thoughts that all new mothers have but none will admit to.
Anne admits these thoughts.
Clearly a skillful writer, Anne manages to develop the characters from her personal life as well as a plot within her journal.
I don't recommend looking to this book for parenting advice but rather when you are in misery and looking for company and comfort as you struggle through your own parenting hurdles.
After stopping reading because I'd started when I first got pregnant and stopped when I had my first miscarriage (who needs someone exuding pure love and delight about their baby when you've just lost yours), I finally picked this up today almost two years later to decide about getting rid of it.
It was a good read, but is so very baby-centric that you should only read it if you are a new mother yourself, pregnant at a safe late stage, or never want to be a parent (I doubt it will change your mind unless you want it changed, there is a lot of self-doubt and complaining about the baby stages while also glowing in blessings and love).
She fits the genre perfectly but was writing about 20 years before it really took off.
Which means her writing is fresh, honest, witty, and at times, TMI.
On a personal level...As a mother, I could really relate to her emotions as they ran the gamut from adoration to exhaustion.As a Christian, I could really relate to her dependance on Jesus and her faith to get through just about everything.
As a personality, I could hardly relate to her at all.
I only withheld one star because I can't unabashedly recommend it to all audiences (due to some of the TMI and values espoused).
Да искреннему описанию тягот первого года материнства; нет пафосной искренности в пассажах о жизни духа — не так велик тот дух, чтобы о нем такими словесами (хотя для каждого человека он сам и есть пуп земли, это понятно).
Также подумала, что очень важен, конечно, для людей доминирующий опыт.
Что называется, по-человечески это понятно, это довольно емкие образы, очень характерная картинка сразу возникает.
Но я страшно не люблю, когда младенцев описывают в том же ключе: "Он ползал по саду и так восторженно смотрел вокруг, будто был под кислой" — и так далее.
Для меня это сразу бесовщина какая-то, ну, держите себя в руках, это младенец, он чист и безгрешен, сами вы под кислой.
Anne Lamott is such a lovely writer. How could you not help but love this book? Only she could turn the mundane parts of life with a baby into poetry. While it's been awhile since I've had a little baby around, I could relate so much to this book. Lamott really captures the emotions you get during that first year with a baby--the intense love, the boredom, the anxiety, the frustration, the fatigue, the infatuation, the excitement. I laughed, I reminisced, and I empathized the whole way through the book.
I read this book because I love Anne Lamott's blurts; the way she speaks raw truth and it feels like a personal conversation. And reading it proved to be one of the final mile markers of my journey, particularly with regard to my own motherhood adventures. Ms. Lamott is able to soften heart-wrenching reality with humor and humanity. A proverbial spoon full of sugar to help the medicine go down ... Because life is about living-through, surviving and thriving in whatever way that looks like for us.
This book pretty much saved my life twenty years ago, when I had a difficult baby. I love Anne Lamott and I definitely felt, if SHE can do it, so can I! :-)
