https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22716194-inside-the-o-briens
Now, her latest book in the genre she invented, neurological fiction, 'neuro fiction', is this one, Inside the O'Briens.All the characters without exception are stereotypical, the Irish cop who has a large family, the mother who might have died of the drink, the daughter who does yoga and is in touch with her inner self, the drifter boy who works in bars and may sleep around.
Probably, like in the music business, they had contracts to write x number of books and so even though they weren't buzzing with new ideas, plots and characters, they sat down and wrote for two hours a day and the editor shaped the literary effort into a saleable product.
It's only a matter of time.While there are hundreds of books regarding romance with health resulting to death incorporated, I believe that this novel aims to inform.
It was interesting to read about the family's way of coping with the disease.
It feels like I still need time to read about their journey with HD.
This is the only novel that truly made me feel like shit after reading.
Anything medicine related is a plus point for me, in terms of enjoyment.(view spoiler)[ The one which truly made me feel like shit would be JJ being gene positive.
I really liked Genova's book "Inside the O'Brians." She has a way of pulling me into the heart, soul, and life of so many different diseases.
This story is about Huntington's Disease, and was told through the life of the O'Brian family.
Much of the story is told through the eyes of the youngest daughter Katie, the one who has struggled with decisions all her life.
It is mostly through her eyes that I watched in horror how quickly her fathers disease progressed.The book did a fantastic job showing what Huntington's Disease looks like.
Once again the incomparable Lisa Genova gives a face to a rare but devastating disease and places us in the home, heart, and mind of a family left to live with a diagnosis that has leveled them at the knees and will change all of their lives forever.
I love a story that takes place at home and no doubt the references to the ballpark, the landmarks and all things Boston make it especially appealing to me.
They are there and that level of authenticity is what allows this fictional family to break my heart.
On the surface, this is simply the story of a close-knit working-class family that suddenly has to face the horrors of the fatal Huntington’s Disease (HD) when Joe, a cop, learns he has the disease and he gradually becomes more and more incapacitated.
It blows my mind to know that long ago, people in my family faced the same horrifying life as Joe. In the book, Joe’s mother had had Huntington’s and they locked her up in a mental hospital and labeled her a drunk.
I wonder if my ancestors faced the same fate.One big nit about the book: I didn’t buy that Joe continued working as a cop when he was first diagnosed.
In this case the family is Irish Catholic, living in Boston, Joe is a police officer, he and his wife have four grown children.
Life is good but hectic until Joe starts exhibiting some strange symptoms.Huntington is a horrible disease, and one that children have a 50/50 chance of inheriting.
My only small criticism is that at times I felt she was a little heavy handed with the repetition of Huntington symptoms, but this is something she feels passionate about, and in no way lessened my involvement in the story.
Half the time, I felt like I was reading a textbook on Huntington's Disease with some examples of how a family is affected thrown in for good measure.
Her chapters were the same wishy-washy words of should I, should I not, yoga, I don't know HD HD HD.
I started to skim her chapters because there was no new information offered.
I appreciate the awareness this book will bring to Huntington's Disease and think it's great that Genova is able to bring medical knowledge to a fictional novel.
Sometimes a book educates you on matters you were unaware of but should not have been - like Huntington's Disease and how it destroys a person in the most cruelest of ways.
The book hooked me from the first chapter, I fell in love with Joe and his battle to see what was happening to him, how it impacted his career in the police force, his dignity, his family, nothing was left untouched.
It's urged me to learn more about Huntington's Disease too.It's been a hard review to write as I don't feel I can get across clearly enough how powerful the impact of it is, it's left me kind of drained, I need to recover and ponder the book over the coming week.
Lisa Genova really knows how to set the scene of a story and draw you in......44 year old Boston Police Officer Joe O'Brien has been diagnosed with Huntington's Disease shocking him and his close-nit family who soon discover they may also carry the fatal inherited gene. With no treatment to slow the progression or hope of cure in sight, Joe's children struggle with the decision of being tested to uncover their fate.Informative and heart-rending read depicting a devastating, debilitating and deadly disease.
Inside the O'Briens had a great strong start, but I had trouble staying interested.The first chapter showed us that Joe, the main character, was beginning to have symptoms of Huntington's Disease, though of course he doesn't realize it at the time.
The author takes this time to introduce us to the family and get to know the characters, but it seemed like this is the point where the story should have picked up, but it never did.When Joe finally receives a diagnosis, it is first by way of the doctor telling him what she "thinks" (prior to any testing), and the situation was so far from what would happen in real life it felt jarring.
Lisa Genova does it again. Highly recommended for all sorts of readers. How she can take such heart wrenching medical topics and tell such important stories is such a gift. Thanks to Gallery Books for a free copy, and I am so glad to report this is one author I am keeping up with. And so well worth it. More research to cure this so importantly needed.
I wish to thank Net Galley, Simon and Schuster publishing, and Dr. Lisa Genova for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an unbiased review.Inside the O’Briens is an outstanding novel, possibly my favorite of all 20 books I have read so far this year.
She explains in easy to understand terms what the genetics of HD are, what is involved in finding out if you are carrying the gene, and what it is like for not only the patient to live with HD, but what the ramifications are on the patient’s family, friends and coworkers.
I can’t help feeling she (or her publishers) decided it would be a good idea to cash in on her earlier success by choosing another devastating disease and finding a story to fit the facts.Joe O’Brien is your typical Boston-Irish cop leading a conventional Boston-Irish life with his Boston-Irish wife and four children.
Then one day their life is upended by Joe’s diagnosis of Huntington's disease, a cruel affliction for which there is no cure.
Joe’s four children are all very different from each other and this handily gives Genoa the opportunity to demonstrate a range of possible reactions.
First of all a huge thank you to Gallery, Threshold, Pocket Books and Netgalley for the ARC in exchange for an honest review.
Before I review this specific book, I just want to touch on Lisa Genova's body of work.
Inside the O'Briens introduces us to Joe, a proud Boston Police officer, his wife Rosie, and their four Children.
Their whole family is rocked when Joe is diagnosed with Huntingtons Disease.
What Genova is a genius at is educating you on diseases and also how they affect families.
You don't need to even read the next review.
More likely it's because Lisa Genova does such an amazing job of letting you know this could be any family , anywhere .This is about a family not so perfect but real in their flaws and yet perfect in their love and support for each other as they face Joe's diagnosis of Huntington's disease .
But she also gives us a beautiful story of a suffering family and how they sustain themselves through love and hope .It is heartbreaking to see what happens to Joe , a career Boston Police Officer both , physically as well as emotionally , beginning with denial through acceptance that he will die of it and worrying about whether his children will get it .
So by the time you find out you have HD, you have already had your own children, all of whom have a 50/50 chance of having it themselves, and a 50/50 chance of passing it on to their kids, and so on and so on and so on.Such is the story of Joe O'Brien and his doomed family.
As in Still Alice, the author gives us another tragic disease and asks the question, would you want to know if you are carrying the gene, or not?Such a story could be a downer, so the author balances it perfectly with scenes of this amazing family.
Joe and his saint of a wife Rosie, adult children Patrick, JJ, Meghan, and Katie.
"Huntington's disease is a lethal neurodegenerative disease with no treatment and no cure --commonly called a family disease.The most important thing about Lisa Genova's new book, "Inside the O'Brians", is that she brings awareness to readers of Huntington's disease --and the many different ways it consumes a family.
As Lisa tells the story about The O'Brien family --the reader begins to understand this disease deeper --physically--psychologically--mentally--financially--spirituality--.There are pros and cons for siblings: A genetic test can tell them if they will get the disease.
This is a heartbreaking disease -- heartbreaking shocking news for a family -- Its a must read for anyone who knows nothing about Huntington's disease.
"INSIDE" The O'Brien's is the perfect title for this wonderful book because Lisa Genova so skillfully puts us inside each character's world to experience their fear, pain, joy, and hope.
As the O'Brien family deal with a current diagnosis and the too real threat to the next generation, their fears and hopes, denial, and bargaining really resonated with me.
Ms. Genova nails what it feels like to hear an unthinkable diagnosis and learn to live with it.
A heartbreaking and hopeful story.I have a quibble about the ending, one of those where I turned the page and gasped out loud, "Noooo!
I only know of Lisa Genova through the film adaptation of Still Alice, and I would not have read another book by her unless it came to me through a book swap, which this one did.
Still Alice gave my husband and I both the worst nightmares of our lives!This author, who has a PhD in neuroscience, seems to prefer to write about diseases in novel form.
The book starts with Joe, a Boston cop who drops things for no reason and falls without tripping.
I sat and read the book in one evening, so it just doesn't let you go.
In an effort to not spoil anything I will be brief and only highlight the things that I still think about after reading this novel.Joe O'Brien is an officer for the Boston Police Department, husband to Rosie, and father to four offspring when he finds out the most devastating news of his life.
The novel progresses by telling the Joe's story by cleverly placing intricate details of the neurodegenitive disease and what it means for his future, and his family's future.
Joe can't help but feel the guilt of passing this along to his children while a few of his children battle wanting to know or not.
Every family has their battles and this particular family is dealing with Huntington's. I had to take a bit of a break about half way through but it drew me back as I kept thinking about what would happen and how they would cope. Anyone from the Boston area may love this even more than I did?
After finishing Still Alice by Lisa Genova, my next read, quite by chance, was her latest book “Inside The O’Briens”, the story of Joe a 44 year old Boston Cop who has been diagnosed with Huntingdon’s Disease, and the effect that it has on him and his family.
Whereas Still Alice is told entirely from Alice’s point of view, in this book we also see the effect it has on Joe’s family, most notably through the eyes of Katie, his youngest daughter.It is a horrible disease; cruel, relentless and fatal and the diagnosis has far reaching effects not only for Joe in his family life, but also his career.
Inside the O' Briens is one of the saddest books I've ever read. Not only does the main character have to live with the earth-shattering diagnosis of Huntington's disease, but he also realizes how it might end up affecting his family, especially his daughter, who finds herself unable to cope with the possibility that she might have the same illness. However, the family discovers that this tragic sentence might end up bringing them closer together. This book brings attention to a disease affecting numerous people in the world, and it's both well-written and original.
We are introduced to an Irish Catholic family from Boston, the O'Briens.
Joe and his wife Rosie have four young adult children, JJ, Meg, Patrick and Katie.
Joe has served on the BPD for over 20 years when he begans having problems and is diagnosed with a rare movement disorder, Huntington's Diease.
It's a progressive condition with no cure and there's a 50/50 chance of his children having the gene to develop HD.
I loved the O'Brien family, well developed characters that I felt I knew personally.
This touched me personally.Lisa Genova has been a favorite author of mine since I read Still Alice and I look forward to her next book.
Three and a half stars.This is a story of how one family reacts when the father, Joe O’Brien, a Boston policeman, is diagnosed with Huntington’s disease.
They have to decide whether to take the test to find out whether they each have the gene or not.It is obvious there has been a lot of research go into this book and this dreadful disease.
While that really made the book realistic, sometimes those details got in the way a bit.
As a result I got annoyed with the way it ended.
Actual rating 4.5 starsWell, I finally read it.
I have personal ties to Huntington's Disease so it set the bar quite high with this story.
I felt, for the most part, the author did a great job accurately portraying HD and the families it affects.
I loved the O'Brien clan and their life in Boston.
The story felt real and the characters relatable.
And while the ending made me frustrated in one breath, it also made perfect sense and I loved it.
This book was able to portray a message of hope and that's what I liked most of all.
A great read!
If you have ever read a book by Lisa Genova, then you know you will be treading into a lush field of the informative, the emotional, and the totally involved.
This book was no exception.The story surrounds the O'Brien family who now must open the door and step through to the other side of Huntington's Disease.
And there is no possible good news.
Lisa Genova, once again, exposes her readers to a look behind the scenes of families who are dealing with situations that life does not prepare you for.
Lisa Genova takes us inside a family, the O'Briens, and forces us to look at what is literally inside them: Huntington's Disease, which is a fatal genetic condition, like ALS, that affects roughly 37,000 people.
Joe discovers that living life now, not putting off things, matters.
So, as reader, we focus only on these peoples' disease, just like Joe and Katie do.
At the end, we, like Joe and Katie, realize that's all we focused on and there's so much more to these peoples' lives.
If, instead, we pay attention to family and love, adventure and hope, we can have a life that is far richer.
That said, had I known ahead of time, I still would have read the book.The story is a raw, real look at Huntington's Disease, a genetic anomaly in the DNA that is not a respecter of persons.
The book begins with Joe, a Boston cop, in his mid thirties, he demonstrate an inkling of the disease.
At the time, the children could also be tested.
The book is an excellent educational vehicle for Huntington's Disease but it also provides they greatest gift an author can give.
This is a powerhouse of a story; an intimate portrait about a family facing an epic issue.
The strength of this story is Genova's expert ability to provide an instant familiarity with all the characters and what's inside their heads, especially 'Joe' - the old-school cop (and head of the family) who toughs everything out instead of going to doctors or counselors.
As heavy as this story is, I would read it again, to savor the complexities of all the characters.
His voice has a husky texture that captures your attention right off the bat.
