https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17402288-dept-of-speculation
I underlined basically the entire novel.
of Speculation can be read in a single sitting, but there are enough bracing emotional insights in these pages to fill a much longer novel." While my first reading was interrupted, I did manage to finish it the next evening.
I wanted to warn people to wear pithy helmets while reading the novel, but this pun has already been taken.5.
of Speculation reminds me of Roz Chast's neurotic New Yorker cartoons:The longer she sits [on the toilet] the more she notices how dingy and dirty the bathroom is.
On a happier note, Roz Chast has a new memoir coming out in May 2014, 
6 stars.I'm doing my inarticulate book-clutching thing.
of Speculation that instead progresses through abstract connections to better occupy the mind and soul of her narrator; a wonderful approach that unfortunately feels a bit stale and preoccupied with accessibility and emotion rather than depth and beauty.
The husband’s affair is never plainly stated at first, and it is the story of Carl Sagan leaving his wife for Ann Druyan while working on the Voyager Golden Record that supplies the context to be assumed when the husband and wife reach a breaking point¹ Other things are not so suble, such as the bedbug infestation in the couples first apartment being a foreshadowing of parasites in the marriage bed, but these metaphors still work wonderfully.The style, with the quick snippets of life interspersed with facts and quotes, reads like David Markson-lite.
Essentially, Offill carries out a kind of emotional autopsy on a young woman trying to divide her energies between bringing up a young child and keeping a husband happy without sacrificing her commitment to succeeding as a writer. The original format of this novel – it’s written as a kind of literary scrapbook of musings, quotes and insights - reminded me at times of Fellini’s brilliant film about the fount of inspiration, 8 . Like the film director in Fellini’s film, Offill’s writer is bereft o
The original format of this novel – it’s written as a kind of literary scrapbook of musings, quotes and insights - reminded me at times of Fellini’s brilliant film about the fount of inspiration, 8 ½.
Like the film director in Fellini’s film, Offill’s writer is bereft of inspiration, which sets her on an odyssey to sift through the rubble of her past in search of nuggets of insight.
It’s such a brilliant dramatization of how much time motherhood demands you waste!
The early years of motherhood are not an uninterrupted crooning of delight.
Indulging in my love of audio books has become more challenging since I quit my job, and no longer have a two and a half hour commute to get lost in a dreamy book.
I enjoy my day, get some reading in, and if the book is especially good, I'll find other things I need to tweak just to keep listening, like a manicure and/or pedicure, or even attending to my larger than life eyebrows.
Focusing on the protagonist's life before marriage, after marriage, motherhood, and the complications from imperfect relationships, I was especially drawn to the "wife's" constant choice of family over career.
“She thinks before she acts.
Or more properly she thinks instead of acts.
It's told in 46 chapters composed of short paragraphs and almost aphoristic lines and quotes in 160 compact pages.
It's not one of those Park Slope mommy books that seem to be a thing lately.
I had mixed feelings about this book.
She used to make fun of those people.
But now it seems possible that the truth about getting older is that there are fewer and fewer things to make fun of until finally there is nothing you are sure you will never be.”
The plot depiction is disjointed and resembles the ramblings of a bi-polar patient off his/her meds. Typically it sounds like the ramblings of a person in couples' therapy when only one partner shows up. I would like to talk about the redeeming graces of this novelette, but I could find none, It was like picking up someone's private daily journal -- and finding that it's really only meaningful to the person writing it. Unfortunately, this material just did not engage me. (The text that explains the origin of the title truly disappointed.)
There are blowsy baroque behemoths that spill the entire contents of the fridge onto your reading table (and let you do the cooking, and the clearing up afterwards too sometimes), and then there are the delicate offerings, the distilled essence from the alembic, an extract that carries, within a tiny drop, sweetness, tartness, acidity, all at once.
The baby's eyes were dark, almost black, and when I nursed her in the middle of the night, she'd stare at me with a stunned, shipwrecked look as if my body were the island she'd washed up on.
Stunned by her own fierce love for this screaming colicky creature:
I thought these out-of-character words so many times: “This book is absolutely gorgeous.” Here’s the thing with book recs: Sometimes you read something and it’s great and you just generically tell your readerly-inclined friends (or internet cruisers) that it’s got your seal.
Know who’d love this?” And you try to explain to said person that it’s crucial they read this book, like, yesterday, all while remembering that you really, seriously, freaking hate when someone tells you to read a certain book (unless they are on a preapproved list of people who understand how and what and why you read).
"Don't cook, don't fuck, what do you do?"Ferrante's use of profanity comes with a threat of real violence.Ferrante embeds her irony in the spaces of a paragraph, enriching the story with this bedrock.Offill is not unlike most of our generation - if you cannot express irony in the snappy one-liner it's nowhere to be found.Offill speaks honestly to be understood.Ferrante speaks honestly because the truth of what happened is important.Offill's anger knows the law will eventually back her up - things just aren't working out right now.
I bring this up now partly because Offill's writing recalls Adler's work, now celebrated (she's taken a Lazarus-like turn off the remainder shelf) in both form and tone, or maybe the better word is "pulse." Others have pointed out the connection, most notably Roxane Gay, who describes Offill's latest novel in the NYTimes Book Review as, "at times, reminiscent of Renata Adler’s 'Speedboat' with a less bitter edge." No question, Dept.
Ten Reasons Why You Should Read This Extraordinary Book10. Because it has one of the coolest back-cover endorsements (by Michael Cunningham) you will ever see.9. Because by reading you will challenge this 1896 advice to wives, quoted in the book: The indiscriminate reading of novels is one of the most injurious habits to which a married woman can be subject. Besides the false views of human nature it will impart, it produces an indifference to the performance of domestic duties, and contempt for
Ten Reasons Why You Should Read This Extraordinary Book10.
Because by reading you will challenge this 1896 advice to wives, quoted in the book:
Besides the false views of human nature it will impart, it produces an indifference to the performance of domestic duties, and contempt for ordinary realities.
Because you will learn more than you have ever forgotten about the history of space exploration (not to mention the long-distance vision of antelopes and attempts to photograph the human soul), but the space that Offill herself explores is inside her.4.
Because, sneaking upon you unawares, it tells the inside story of an ordinary good marriage, the shock of adultery, and the terrible period afterwards when everything hangs in the balance.2.
(Novels I read recently which are really also memoirs are : A Question of Upbringing, The Wallcreeper, The Adventures of Augie March, The Naked and the Dead, Voyage in the Dark… the list could go on and on.)It’s true that calling your memoir a novel allows you to have a lot more fun with the facts, as in, you don’t have to stick to them.
I read that JO’s agent said “this isn’t a novel, it’s an x-ray of a novel”.
She wants to know the name of the black bird with the red wings.
At first it seemed like an almost random stream of disconnected short paragraphs, but it soon becomes clear that the book has a core narrative that tells what would otherwise be a fairly humdrum and universal story of a failing marriage.
There is then a sudden switch to a more neutral third person narrator when the husband has an affair with a young colleague, and this part of the book becomes more focused with fewer digressions, but perhaps less interesting too.
Many of the individual paragraphs are very quotable and the book is a pleasure to read.
Thin slices of married life as viewed through a microscope, agitated cells of a wife's emotional life swirling on the page.
The book felt a little bit rushed and disjointed and coming apart at the seams.
Jenny Offill jumped ahead through the years a little abruptly at times and I often felt stuck in a game of literary hopscotch where I was supposed to "feel" strongly about events that I hadn't been given the chance to fully register.
A beautiful succession of existential states that unfortunately unraveled like a ball of yarn, never fully achieving the emotional build-up that I was aching for.
This short story reminds me of the first big hill on a wooden roller coaster.
You know how the train jolts as it starts to move?
Her story is told in rapid-fire, quick-cut edited scenes.
She perfectly describes that feeling of uncertainty and anxiety of a woman who has given up her identity to become a mom and she is wondering, “What on earth have I done to my life” There is some cutting humor too: 
This book also captures the debilitating fear, helplessness and deep pain that this woman is feeling as her marriage falls apart.
This writing feels so personal and so intimate.
But, like Thomas Paine's Common Sense, its resemblance to a modest pamphlet belies the size of its punch.This book is an excellent character study and an example of what greatness can be achieved when an author trusts her reader and thus avoids the sin of overwriting.
Because, it's insufficient, perhaps even cheating, but at very least disingenuous, to write a book that takes place entirely in the narrator/protagonist brain and call it a character study: That's just narrative point of view, not artistic or literary achievement.
Very nice, subtle novel. The prose is clear, stripped-back and easy to follow, it's very incidental and smooth. I don't know, reading this novel feels like that moment when you slip into a hot bath and suddenly everything is alright. The words swash around you with their calming violence, constantly bobbling and trickling along with their nonchalant rhythm. This is a wonderful piece. I'm saddend that more people haven't read this. I truly recommend it.
I wrote a review a couple of years ago...sorry --not sure where it is Might show up Mariah!!
I found myself gasping at the sheer beauty and conciseness of Offill's sentences. This book can be devoured in two hours, or you can languish in it over many sittings (or both). It's about love and loneliness and grief and joy and fidelity and beauty and depression and mania and motherhood and writing. The shifting points of view were subtle yet profound, and, despite the darkness and sadness of the story, when I closed the book, I was left more alert and attentive, more alive. Highly recommended.
Here are two excerpts that speak for themselves:To live in a city is to be forever flinching.
Most of us spend our time moving back and forth between these three.
Blue jays spend every Friday with the devil, the old lady at the park told me.
“You need to get out of that stupid city,” my sister said.
An ice cream truck overlaid with the sound of gulls at Coney Island and the Wonder Wheel spinning.It is stupid to have a telescope in the city, but we bought one anyway.That year I didn’t travel alone.
Well this book broke me into pieces. I just felt super connected to the main character and even though I am not married and I don't have any children I was still able to put myself in that characters shoes. The author did a great job at this. This was a fast, short, easy read that was super interesting and made you think and feel greatly!
All the agonies and joys of motherhood are here too, condensed into unforgettable moments that any woman who has ever been ‘on the edge’ will empathise with, even if you have never had to walk a baby to sleep for hours.ExtractAnd that phrase – 'sleeping like a baby'.
I wanted to lie down next to her and scream for five hours in her ear...I ordered a CD online that promised to put even the most colicky baby to sleep.
As if you had been forced to live inside such a heart with no possibility of escape.Our friend R stopped by one night to see us while it was playing.
'This is intense,' R said after an hour or two.
Jenny Offill's DEPT.
Offill has weaved plenty of speculation into the plot here, which offers rich passages of "deeper reading" for those who don't mind constantly pausing while reading in order to ponder an uncanny musing or strange turn of phrase (and I for one don't mind it at all).
OF SPECULATION is a book about life and wonder, about bitter disappointment and the realities of life that often get lost in the minutia, and those who read it will likely find themselves highlighting plenty of sections to come back to and think upon during a dreary, rainy day.
the writing is excellent, but the story (marriage/baby/infidelity/unpleasantness) just makes me wanna open myself with a sword
This novel is some kind of magic trick. I don't know how else to explain how this envelope of a book, like a genie's lamp, contains so much story, truth, heartbreak, and wisdom. It left as big an impression as a tome, and in 160 odd pages that is something special.

With very similar stories, the writing couldn't be more different.
There's a major difference to the stories themselves, but to state what that is might be a spoiler for either.The few similarities are what struck me, though, (and I wonder if I would've caught them if not for Karen's planting the Ferrante seed in my brain): ...a day of mental illness, one that had its beginnings in previous days...
Original!Sometimes Hilarious!Absorbing and beautifully tenderly absurd slim novel that strikes a cord of truth.A meaningful story. Reveals the light within the darkness!A one sitting read!
