https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18798983-the-wrath-and-the-dawn
She wanted to kiss him.No.It was one thing to return his kiss; she’d been prepared for that. But it was another thing entirely to want his kiss . . . another thing entirely to desire his affections. To melt into the arms of Shiva’s killer at the first sign of adversity.Weak. Retellings should light my imagination on fire. They should take the original story, add a twist to it, make it so that we don't feel like we're reading the same old, same old. The only twist, the only imaginative reimagini
The only twist, the only imaginative reimagining to this book is the addition of a fucking love triangle and the rewriting of the should-have-been mysterious, brilliant, Scheherazade into an astoundingly stupid chick.The Scheherazade of the original 1001 Nights is a woman to be admired.
We have a main character who tells stories.
Girl decides to sacrifice herself like a sheep to the slaughter by marrying the dude herself, and secretly plots to stave off the executioner's axe by telling him a story and leave it on a cliffhanger every night.
A love interest who is pretty fucking smart and vigilant.
“Make sure they never forget. You are the Calipha of Khorasan, and you have the ear of a king.” She bent forward and lowered her voice. “And, most important, you are a fearsome thing to behold in your own right.” My original plan was to finish this book tonight and then write up a review tomorrow, but after that ending, I just can't stop thinking about it and I need to get my thoughts down right now. In short: I enjoyed this book very much. Way more than I expected to, to tell the truth. And I
Well, I finally found a romance where I just loved the characters, totally obsessed over what would happen, and finished the final page with a pounding heart.My god, what has this book done to me?This story is about Khalid, the Caliph of Khorasan, who takes a new bride each night only to have her executed at sunrise.
and don't you just love stories within stories?Though I said this book is primarily a romance, there are many other things that need mentioning.
Obviously I'm biased . . . BUT THIS BOOK CHANGED MY LIFE ;-)
You can watch my review here: https://youtu.be/ngTWMqYuT6c !!:)
SoooOOOoo GoooOOOOdd
1.5 stars "How can I desire him? After he killed Shiva. After he killed so many young girls, without explanation. What's wrong with me?" A three-sentence summary of The Wrath and the Dawn:Shahrzad: I will kill Caliph Khalid to avenge my best friend!Khalid: *eye smoulder*Shahrzad: Lol, nah. That is literally what happens. I'm not joking. The Wrath and the Dawn is a retelling of the classical One Thousand and One Nights tale. Every day, the Caliph of Khorasan marries a new bride and by dawn, he ha
A three-sentence summary of The Wrath and the Dawn:Shahrzad: I will kill Caliph Khalid to avenge my best friend!Khalid: *eye smoulder*Shahrzad: Lol, nah.
Every day, the Caliph of Khorasan marries a new bride and by dawn, he has her killed.
Shahrzad marries him to get revenge for her best friend and within three days, she's putty in his hands.
Keep in mind Shahrzad falls for Khalid before she discovers the real reason behind the murders (in which he's totally blameless because God forbid he's a morally grey character).
She is in love with someone who murdered her best friends and hundreds of other girls.
I loved it beyond words.I'm in awe. This beautiful journey, this journey of longing, magic and love sang to my soul, gave me wings, spilled vibrant colours in a bleak routine and made my heart burst.Renee Ahdieh is a rare storyteller.  “One hundred lives for the one you took. One life to one dawn. Should you fail but a single morn, I shall take from you your dreams. I shall take from you your city.And I shall take from you these lives, a thousandfold.”   The Caliph of Khorasan, the King of Kings
This beautiful journey, this journey of longing, magic and love sang to my soul, gave me wings, spilled vibrant colours in a bleak routine and made my heart burst.Renee Ahdieh is a rare storyteller.
Torn between her promise for revenge and her traitorous heart, Shahrzad might be the only one that can make Khalid care again.
To Shahrzad's fierceness, to Khalid's tragedy, to the sheer magic that engulfed me like it was a living and breathing thing.
Yes, when Shahrzad married Khalid she was in love with another boy.
Shahrzad was prepared to kill Khalid.
Shahrzad was prepared to kill Khalid.
Things I liked:-- awesome premise, obviously-- a world very different from what we're used to-- a few intriguing conversations between women (Shazi and Despina, Shazi and Yasmine)-- diversity, yay-- a few nice action scenes towards the end-- the romance, which eventually sparked and got me very invested in what's going to happen next!Things I wanted more of:-- Magic (perhaps this will come in the next book)-- Complexity of emotion-- development of character, particularly in secondary ones-- showing versus telling (the writing feels a bit...mannered?)-- less glossing over/quickly moving past important scenes (view spoiler)[such as consummation of their union.
SPOILER FREE REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IA4zN...Reread: April 2016STILL AMAZING can't wait to read the next one! First reading: June 2015Holy crap. What a fantastically captivating tale.
I will live to see tomorrow’s sunset. Make no mistake. I swear I will live to see as many sunsets as it takes. And I will kill you.With my own hands. Here’s what happened: I was halfway through this book when I realized that it was slightly late, that the next day I would have to go to work early in the morning and that we humans need sleep in order to survive through the day. So, as a farewell to the book and because my curiosity took over, I decided to open the book at a random remaining page
Here’s what happened: I was halfway through this book when I realized that it was slightly late, that the next day I would have to go to work early in the morning and that we humans need sleep in order to survive through the day.
(Pssst, I’m glad you couldn’t see me the next morning.)THAT SAYS A LOT.I personally don’t just go around sacrificing my sleep for any book.
Now I know I have to read her books in the daylight and if possible on a day without school or work.
sequel now pls
*dies*I think this just replaced ACOTAR as my number one book of the year....YES YOU HEARD ME RIGHT. There is so much right about this book. The world building is great, the smaller magical elements are phenomenal, and the characters are ON PAR. I loved it so much and I'm SO PUMPED THERE WILL BE MORE STORY.
The Wrath and the Dawn is every recently amazing YA book thrown into one read. Red Queen meets  An Ember in the Ashes  meets  A Court of Thorns and Roses . The main difference it has between those books is the amount of action. The Wrath definitely set aside action packed scenes for a slower more lyrical literature depth.Sharhrzad (Shazi) is out to seek revenge for the murder of her best friend and decides too volunteer to be the next wife of the Caliph of Khorasan. The Caliph is known for being
The Wrath definitely set aside action packed scenes for a slower more lyrical literature depth.Sharhrzad (Shazi) is out to seek revenge for the murder of her best friend and decides too volunteer to be the next wife of the Caliph of Khorasan.
Shazi doesn’t care why the king does this she only cares about righting what has been wrong and insuring that this fate doesn’t come to another girl.Since this is told from a 3rd person point of view us as reading know that there is clearly more to the story than meets the eye.
<3 <3 <3This. Book.How dare it end where it did.
FIRST READ: June 2015REREAD: May 2016Still obsessed with this <3----------------------THIS HAS OVERTAKEN EVERYTHING, EVERYTHING AS MY NUMBER 1 SPOT OF MY FAVOURITE BOOK OF THE YEAR. I CAN'T EVEN. EFKHSBFKHSBDFKAHDBFKSDHABFKAHSDBFKASJBKAHBGKAFHBKV SO MANY ALADDIN FEELS
The Wrath & the Dawn follows Shahrzad on a quest to avenge the death of her dearest friend, Shiva.
“Just one boy and one girl.”And when Shahrzad found his letters of apology to the families of the girls murdered at dawn, especially the letter addressed to Shiva’s family, I had tears streaming down my face.This book is too good.I also really cared about the secondary characters, they all added something special to the story.The friendship between Despina and Shazi reminded me somehow of Cinder and Iko’s friendship, which I truly enjoyed.
Actual rating: 1.5Do you ever just hear about a book and know without a shadow of a doubt that you will love it?
From the forced writing style to the lackluster plot and flat characters.
One second Shazi wants to murder him and get vengeance for him murdering her best friend and the next page she is talking about her fluttering heart.
So I don’t get the emotions behind Shazi wanting revenge.
I don’t care her friend died.
Other than him I couldn’t care less about these characters and their problems.
Until about page 340 nothing happened in this book plot wise.
It's beautiful and visual and delicious (seriously, so much delicious food) and the characters were absolute perfection.
I'm so grateful The Wrath and the Dawn really stuck to the original story and embellished it beautiful and in a more YA way (Shadow Spinner is, obviously, a children's book).
I love books that use food to its full glory.
(Hello, his father (view spoiler)[murdered his mother (hide spoiler)] in front of 6-year-old Khalid THAT IS KINDA DAMAGING.) I ship him and Shahrzad so so hard I possibly might explode.+ Jalal: He's Khalid's cousin and next commander-of-the-guard.
MY FAVORITE BOOK OF THE YEAR. PERIOD. (and one of my favorite books EVER.)   The Wrath & The Dawn is a lush retelling of 1001 Nights. It follows Shahrzad as she seeks revenge for the murder of her best friend by The Monster King of Khorasan, Khalid.  So I had just read ACOTAR, and I wasn't expecting another book to top for a long time this year. I was actually thinking that it would be my favorite of the year. WRONG. The Wrath & The Dawn hit it it out of the park for me! I was actually r
So I had just read ACOTAR, and I wasn't expecting another book to top for a long time this year.
Yes there's this fantastic romance, but there's also this mystery as to WHY is khalid marrying a new bride every day and killing them off by dawn the next day.
This is by far one of the BEST romances I have EVER read.
I'm thinking this will be addressed more in future books because yes the romance did outweigh the development of side characters but I totally get it because this is the first book in the epic story of Khalid and Shazi.
Hands down, this is my favorite book of the year.
SHOOK.retellings are slowing making their way into my favourite genre because this was pure magic.
this felt captivatingly fresh and delightfully original.
it was such a clever story of love and passion, but intertwined with nuances of folklore legend and mystery.
it was almost too good to be true because i could not put this down.
i felt like i accidentally blinked and was already on the last page - i would take one thousand and one nights of this story.
thank goodness there is a second book!
also, how gorgeous is this cover!?
that is worth 5 stars alone.
↠ 5 stars
Again, i don't hate this book, let's just say it's not what i expected, or wanted it to be.
:)I can tell most of the time if a book is for me or not, and when i saw The Wrath and the Dawn i just knew it wasn't.
I'll be honest, i knew she wasn't actually going to kill him, but i expected her to at least try!
WTF was that?Every time they started talking about "love" and all that crap, i wanted to scream at the book  you were supposed to be trying to kill each other!!!
“I love you, a thousand times over. And I will never apologize for it.” The Wrath and the Dawn is, simply put, amazing. Breathtaking. Stunning. My sappy, romantic heart was joyous with this love story, swooning and falling head over heels in love with the characters. Thrilling, seductive and incredibly enchanting, this book will have you devouring page after page filled with literary deliciousness.  One enigmatic boy-king, the caliph of Khorasan, takes a new bride every day only to have her kil
My sappy, romantic heart was joyous with this love story, swooning and falling head over heels in love with the characters.
One enigmatic boy-king, the caliph of Khorasan, takes a new bride every day only to have her killed at dawn.
But when Shahrzad, a sixteen-year old girl, volunteers to become his new wife, and afterwards manages the unthinkable of living the deadly dawn's arrival, things start changing pretty quickly.
I seriously don't know how the story will be continued -- since the series is a duology -- because all kinds of dangers are threatening Khalid, his relationship with Shazi and the kingdom he's ruling and I'm afraid they'll be too much of a burden.
تشعر انها مقدمة لجمهور من الفتيات بالأخص..ولكني لا أستطيع مقاومة أعادة حكي حديثة للألف ليلة وليلة "لأسباب شخصية شرحتها في الريفيو المبدئي في السبويلر بأخر الريفيو"ولكنها كانت ممتعة بحق..بها نضج واضح غير موجود بالكثير من الروايات الرومانسية الاجنبية الحديثةوعند تقييمها راعيت ان اقيمها بجانب هل اعجبتني ام لا ان اراعي هل قدمت فكرة جديدة..كيف كان الأخراج..الشخصيات..هل قصة الحب مقنعة..كيف السحر بالرواية واذا ما كان مبالغ فيه ام لا..وهل تليق فعلا للجمهور المقدمة له؟حسنا لنبدأ بالتعرف علي الأحداث والـحكـايـةبلغني أيها القراء الكرام..اصدقائي من لهم عندي عظيم المقامأن الخليفة الشاب "خالد" ..خليفة هذه البلاد..يتزوج كل يوم فتاة, ليكون أخر يوم لها في الحياةحيث تشنق عند مطلع الفجر..بقماش من الحرير والتبركل يوم بمدينة راي المسكينة..يتم أختيار فتاة جميلة..الا اليوم تطوعت لأول مرة فتاة حزينةتطوعت بكامل إرادتها..لتحاول الأنتقام لأعز صديقاتها"شـهــرزاد"ِشهرزاد "شاذي" تزوجت الخليفة المتوحش قاتل صديقتها..فقط لتحاول البحث عن نقطة ضعفه وتستغلها لصالحها لتقتله كما قتل صديقتها "شيفا"..وغيرها من بنات البلدة الشريفةولكن لتعيش يوما أخر عليها أن تدبر لخطة..فتقرر لألهاءه بأن تحكي له قصةقصة "عجيب" وجزيرة "جبل العناد"..الجزيرة التي يتحطم بها كل سفينة وعتادّقصه عن كم يمكن ان يبذل الأنسان في سبيل الحب ...
But wow, I loved it!!!I'm going to speak about the story with more depht in my wrap up, but for now I just want to speak of one character.KHALID.
It's been a while since the male protagonist of a book didn't made me roll my eyes with his cheesy lines, but Khalid managed to melt my heart with some quotes that normally would've made me cringe.
“Destroy me.”“My soul sees its equal in you.”“And how will you know when you’ve found this elusive someone?” Shahrzad retorted.“I suspect she will be like air.
Like knowing how to breathe.” I'M SWOONING, you hear me!?I also loved Jalal, I think he was the best character in the book.
The scenes, the food, especially the LAVASH bread, the use of words like "Joonam" and "delam" made me even more connected to the characters and everything in the book itself.Renee ahdieh is a magnificent storyteller, she used the idea of a classical Arabian tale and transformed it into a story of love and betrayal.
Many authors are gifted enough to create a story that you want to finish because you just need to know what happens next, but not all of them can so intricately create a world that absorbs you and absolves you so delicately.
And I can't tell you how happy I am to say that I really enjoyed The Wrath and the Dawn and I'm hoping many of my friends will give it a chance.Sharhrzad (Shazi), desperate to avenge her best friend's murder, decides to volunteer as tribute to be the next wife of the Caliph of Khorasan, Khalid.
I was also a bit surprised (and disappointed?) that Shazi's only plan to survive the dawn was to tell the Caliph a story and deliberately end it on a cliffhanger as the sun rose to generate anticipation from Khalid.
My heart is broken.My brain is broken.At first, I thought that this book was alright but the last hundred pages BLEW MY MIND.(Damn you Khalid, for being so hot)To be honest, Shahrzad was sort of a hot-headed, stubborn brat in my opinion at first XDWhich, in some cases, this description really suits her throughout the story...I mean..1) She tried climbing a wall just to prove that she could.
I mean, she told stories inside of a story...HOW CRAZY IS THAT??Second: THE CHARACTERS.People, I honestly couldn't decide between Tariq and Khalid at first, so I was just waiting for one of them to step up and become an obnoxious, overprotective pig.haha...oh the fun times....And DESPINA.
3.8 STARS  "Don't sneer at me. I may be small, but, when pushed, I can strike out with a surprising amount of force."  Before I begin reviewing the book, I want to say a massive thank you to My friend Brittany for telling me about the romance in this book because if you didn't tell me, then I wouldn't buy this book in the first place and also thank you for listening to my thoughts about this book through messages!  My Opinion Time! The reasons that I read this because Brittany told me about the
The reasons that I read this because Brittany told me about the romance and I also felt the need to read all of Ahdieh's books or at least try reading them and it's all because of Flame in the Mist, I loved that book so much!
when I loved the other book of the author so much but then surprisingly, I didn't enjoy reading it at first because I expected a lot of actions and there was too much talking and I ACTUALLY thought to dnf the book because AT FIRST I couldn't relate to Shahrzad and then Khalid was cold, too distant, bland and boring but then it all changed.
5 STARS?!?!Fucked if I know.
On the other hand, a lot of that gorgeous prose is dedicated to showing the reader, over and over again, how indecisive the female lead is.
Instead, she spends the first half of this book being a whiny, wishy-washy pain in the ass, failing to kill him even though she's provided with multiple opportunities to do so.
Had she remained loyal to all those dead women and simply tried and failed to kill him.
Because only in the latter half of this book do you begin to understand Shahrzad's unfortunate attraction to him.
I actually liked this book. Khalid, the so called King of kings marries often. He seems to have a shortage in the bride department. Maybe because after their wedding nights the brides are put to their death.Then enter Shahrzad, after her best friend loses her life because she was one of Khalid's brides Shahrzad volunteers to be his wife. She has plans on being his last because she is going to off his butt. Once married she survives the marriage by telling him stories. She leaves him with a cliff
I actually liked this book.
Maybe because after their wedding nights the brides are put to their death.Then enter Shahrzad, after her best friend loses her life because she was one of Khalid's brides Shahrzad volunteers to be his wife.
Once married she survives the marriage by telling him stories.
She leaves him with a cliffhanger each night to keep his interest going.
She speaks her mind, can shoot a bow, distrusts everyone (I like that in a girl) and is not even the prettiest girl in the whole book.
The romancey part of the book didn't make me want to gag.
