https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71047.The_Graduate
To me that something has always been the very ending of the film, that final scene that adds a new dimension to otherwise lovely but okay film - those last moments on the bus with Simon and Garfunkel's The Sound of Silence  in the background, with close-up on the faces of Ben and Elaine, so exhilarated from their on-the-spur-of-the-moment decision - but, as the camera lingers, we see eventual slow fading of the happy grins and uncertainty setting in, and the slightly confused awkward apprehensive glances at each other - now what?
Then I would talk to myself."Self, are you enjoying this book?""Why?
But really, are you enjoying this book?""Not really.
But no, I guess I'm not really enjoying it.""What are you going to do about that?""Nothing.""What do you mean nothing?""I mean nothing.
Why would you read a book you're not enjoying?
I'm going to worry about you until you have a definite plan.""If I come up with a definite plan to do something other than nothing, will you marry me?""Well I used to think you raped my mother and five minutes ago I never wanted to see you again.
But I might have decided to marry someone else by then."I almost gave it two stars because it was interesting in a very awkward way.
I think.
A world where a middle-aged woman seduces a boy who is barely out of his teens and it becomes one of the most enjoyable and humourous books of the decade.
There’s something in the prose, something in the plot, something in the characters, something in the dry humour that just tick, tick, tick, ticked all of my boxes.
I tried to stop reading, to take a break, but no, it wasn’t happening.
I was so invested in this book that I nearly missed my stop on the bus.
I’ll be thinking about this one for a while.
In 1963 a young man by the name of Charles Webb published a book called THE GRADUATE, a story that was supposedly based on a true story.
Let's leave the movie alone and just focus on the book.The plot is simple: a disenchanted, recently graduated, well-to-do young man has an affair with an attractive, well-to-do, older woman whose husband just so happens to be business partners with the young man's father...don't forget that the young man also falls in love with the older (cougar) woman's daughter.
Charles Webb was 24(!) when he published this novel.
Ed essendo un’Alfa Romeo sembrava che il film fosse diretto e dedicato a noi ragazzi italiani (io bambino).E le perle, le scene esilaranti: in tenuta da sub dentro la piscina di casa –dialoghi, così: “Plastica.”, Benjamin risponde “Credo di non aver capito, signore.”, e il signore chiarisce il concetto così “Plastica, Ben. Il futuro è nella plastica.” – il receptionist dell’albergo interpretato da Buck Henry, sceneggiatore del film, e dopo, tra gli altri, di “Comma 22” e “Il paradiso può attendere”…....…Una delle inquadrature più famose della storia del cinema.Poi venne il libro.
The Graduate, Charles WebbThe Graduate is a 1963 novella by Charles Webb, who wrote it shortly after graduating from Williams College. It tells the story of Benjamin Braddock, who, while pondering his future after his graduation, has an affair with the older Mrs. Robinson, the wife of his father's business partner.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیستم ماه آگوست سال 1971 میلادیعنوان: در سکرات عشق - فارغ التحصیل؛ نویسنده: چارلز وب؛ مترجم: ا. انوریان؛ تهران، بامداد، 1344، در 244 صا. شربیانی
Probably best known as a film and for those famous lines "Mrs Robinson, are you trying to seduce me?"So the first point of order in this review is this: if someone has to ask if you're trying to seduce them then it probably follows that you are doing a piss-poor job in the seduction department.
7. Ending the affair by politely thanking someone for their time and the instructive nature of your well-organised and sanitised couplings.
Even if the age gap crosses the border into geological time scales, do not, under any circumstances draw attention to it in the format of the written word.
The novel is written so sparsely and simply it functions pretty much as a blueprint for Mike Nichols’s script—90% of the action is told in dialogue with occasional flat descriptive passages for the frantic parts.
A neurotic boy wonder returns to the suburbs to deliberate on the predetermined future laid out before him, and sets about breaking every taboo imaginable under the sun, but mostly sleeping with an older woman and trying to marry her daughter simply because grown-ups told him not to.
As a comedic novel, the dialogue does all the work—Webb’s prose lacks any especial humour—and most of the famous movie lines are here with the added bonus of having Dustin Hoffman’s voice in our heads as we read them.
It just stops, like it's the end of a chapter and more is coming.
I am now somewhere in the same age range as Mrs. Robinson, so here's a little hint for you young guys who like older women: Do NOT tell her, "I think you're the most attractive woman of all my parents' friends." :0 That's a seriously backhanded compliment which will be heard by the woman as, "You're pretty good lookin' for an old hag." Fool, Benjamin, fool.The theme of the book had potential in a Richard Yates sort of way.
But in the end it doesn't deliver.
I read this book ages ago and also watched the film. Now I have the lyrics of Simon and Garfunkel running through my head.Here's to you Mrs RobinsonJesus loves you more than you will knowWo, Wo,WoGod bless you, please,Mrs RobinsonHeaven holds a place for those who prayHey,Hey,Hey,Hey,Hey,Hey Loved the song too. Pure nostalgia.
It's probably pretty obvious that I didn't like this book.
It was 260 pages of a book that was mostly dialogue so it should have taken 5 minutes to read, or three hours at most.
This is what really happened:ReadingI need a napReadingNap for an hourReadingI want to buy some booksReadingI don't really have any I want to buyRea...What about some of those Martin Amis ones I've been drooling over?ReadingI really need a new purseReadingMaybe I should do a reading challenge for postmodernism next yearReadi...Or this year?Re...I need to research postmodernismReading, dammitRe...ad...in.....gThe book ended up taking about twice as long to read it as it should have.
Also, the character is a bully and an a**hole and he really needed someone to kick him in the balls so he'd shut the hell up.
I read this just after the film was a smash hit, it was OK, well written cute story of growing up.
Ben and Elaine, I hope you really end up together and leave your poor parents alone.Mrs. Robinson was not great, but she was the most interesting one and the one who acted with purpose.
She was depressed and/or bored with her life, and an alcoholic.
(view spoiler)[ Yes Ben, you should pursue and want to marry the daughter of the woman you've been having an affair with and act like a stalker.
Yes Elaine, you should "fall in love" (what was that?!?!
I hate Mrs. Robinson, but I'll sleep with her anyway, I hate my parents for loving and supporting my useless ass, and I hate Elaine for being forced to date her against my wishes.
I'll treat her like garbage and I'll never have to go out with her again!
Now if I stalk her enough and repeat the same things over and over, maybe she'll agree!"I can understand why Benjamin wanted Elaine (he's crazy) but why would Elaine even give him the time of day let alone fall in love with him?
The only understandable character in the entire novel is Mrs. Robinson.
Man, this book was weird! Sort of like Hemingway with an autistic protagonist. I guess it's supposed to be social commentary, about suburban Americans caring only about the way things look.The first chapter was difficult to read, about Benjamin being so rude and awkward to the party guests. His first night with Mrs. Robinson was pretty funny, though. But since I already knew the plot (even though I haven't seen the movie yet), the twists lacked a punch. Also, you never find out quite why Ben is so disillusioned with college, or what he really did during his three-week escape.
This was an easy read for me. I was in college when I read this novel after seeing the equally successful film on TV rerun. I was able to relate few years after when I had a short affair with an officemate 15 years my senior. However, there was no Elaine that ended the short affair. We just got tired of each other. Looking back, I think I was somewhat influenced by this. Well, I was very young then so it was just part of growing up.
Ok I know this book has so much buzz because it is very controversial. But for me, the main character is not really well develop. I can not understand the how the main character thought. I can not connect either with the character. Not for me.
I've always wanted to read the book because I liked the movie, but wow, the film is mostly the book line-for-line, minus a couple of events, and plus a lot of atmosphere.
And frankly, the book+atmosphere is way better than the book alone, to the point where it's hard to imagine that somebody read this book 50 years ago and saw enough worth in it to make a movie out of it.
Interesting concept, but underdone.And nobody says "plastics."Read it for curiousity's sake, I guess, as I did.
I still like the movie, BTW - the artistry of the film easily glosses over some of the story's preposterousness.
I was never enamored with the film The Graduate as was most of my peers.
But I did sit in awe at the performances of Dustin Hoffman and the calculated socio-pathology of Anne Bancroft as Mrs. Robinson.
Unfortunately the novel on which the film is based doesn't even have that going for it.
It is a rather pointless story with very unlikable and pathetic characters.
Mrs Robinson fares fairly well as she is a cardboard precursor to Desperate Housewives but Benjamin Braddock comes off even more pathetic and just as selfish.
And the famous lines that the film is known for?
Yes, "Mrs. Robinson.
At first, I thought I was reading a script and that I'd been swindled out of my money, but no, it turns out that this was the actual novel.Okay...Well, Webb's novel is mostly dialogue-heavy, so don't expect any beautiful descriptions about characters/settings or anything, really.In the beginning, Webb's detached, sparse, minimal prose was fun because I was flying through it thinking this is easy shit, but then I realised something...I wanted some description to liven things up, because the style was becoming tedious.
This novel had a lot of potential, but I think the film eclipsed it.
Can you love a book and hate it at the same time?
Elaine was a week character that pretty much did whatever anyone told her.
But, as I thought through possible scenarios in my mind of where I had hoped the story would go, I realized that the ending was pretty well timed.
Was this a realistic story?
No...nothing healthy about a story like this in the real world.
But it made for page turning drama.Is that weird that I didn’t have to like any of the characters to really love the book?
And here's to you, Mrs. Robinson! <3
This book was just meh. It's very dialogue heavy and the story line got kind of boring towards the end. I didn't hate it but I didn't particularly enjoy it either.
Jednostavno ne razumem zasto je ovo americki klasik? Likovi su mlaki, neubedljivi, prica je cudna, njihove reakcije jos cudnije...tako da ne znam sta da kazem
Probably because I apparently spent $1.25(!) on it and that's a lot of money for me, and also possibly because I see it as one of the first novels to tackle the particularly middle or upper-middle class dillemma of being overeducated and not sure what to do with one's life, which has interest to me as it partains to "twntysomething/slack lit," which I am trying to read as much as I can of before I turn thirty.Everyone's asking Benjamin what his plan is, but he seems content to throw away a scholarship to grad school and spend all day sleeping and all night drinking beer and watching movies.
I can’t tell what I’m imagining.
I can’t...’Benjamin’s collapse of meaning is compared to a range of other fictional characters in the Introduction of this edition, which is interesting.
or, at least a kind of human engagement that he lacks, but there is a definite sense that while he is actually surrounded by loving, engaging, perfectly swell people, they’ll never quite be enough for him, because he’s not prepared to help fill the lack himself.‘I mean are we dead or something?’ he said.It’s tragic for him, and it’s tragic for Mrs Robinson, who you feel might have had the same problem at some time.
Just because I'm a print guy I figured I owed it to the history of the novel to read the book on which the movie is based.
It's a fairly standard pre-hippie coming of age novel, with lots of Holdenesque angst and resentment toward suburban phonies.In the end, what may be more interesting than the novel is the story of its author.
This worrisome news comes years after Webb signed over his royalties to charity, lived an itinerant life as a vagabond, and landed destitute in the arms of that most chimerical of muses, the Big Comeback.
From BBC Radio 4:It's the summer of 1963 in suburban California and Benjamin Braddock has the world at his feet. He's just graduated from university with a teaching scholarship, his dad has bought him a fancy new Italian sports car, and all the Braddocks' friends and neighbours have been invited to a house party to celebrate. There's just one problem. Benjamin refuses to leave his room...
This novel is a masterpiece which conveys us the atmosphere of 60's. Back then conservative values were still highly estimated. This novel throws a question about our life. Is it correct to become a good citizen and obey the rule which the society pushes to us ? Benjamin is not an attractive guy, but I cannot blame his behavior. His rebel may fail but it's worth trying. He seems anti-hero of the day but actually a hero of this hopelessly dull world.
Elaine y la señora Robinson (que me parece un personaje excepcionalmente interesante, pero muy poco aprovechado) no tienen mucha cabida en una historia que se centra en los no-sentimientos de Benjamín Braddock.
Una pena, pues creo que como personajes femeninos se pudieron haber explotado más.Benjamín, por su parte, me pareció ni fu ni fa.
No es que Charles Webb lo debe desentrañar todo y ofrecerle al lector una historia en bandeja de plata, pero el misterio queda y el final (muy acertado, por cierto), no ayuda a enclarecer nada.
Creo que Charles Webb intentó emular un poco a Camus, pero no le resultó.
