https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232123.All_That_Remains
The "Kay Scarpetta" mystery series by Patricia Cornwell was one of the first adult mystery book series I began reading.
All That Remains is the third book in the series about a forensic medical examiner in Virginia who helps solve brutal crimes.What I love about the early books is the relationship between the detective, Pete Marino, and Scarpetta, the medical examiner.
In the early books, like this one, you just want to hate Pete but you know he's got a heart in there.
All her serial killers end up wanting to get to Scarpetta, to impress her, because of how methodical and intelligent she is.Cornwell's writing is intense.
This was another very easy read in the Scarpetta series. Non-Scarpetta readers be advised, you do not need to start from the start. Each book is standalone and you can read them in any order.This is another great book in the series by Cornwell. Some awesome settings with some great chilling scenes. Any crime and horror lover would enjoy this and find it very easy to fly through. High 4 stars
(hide spoiler)] but I was expecting a little more from this one.
I simply want to be cared for, and there’s a very big difference between the two.""People were just as cruel to animals as they were to each other.""No one can ever be sure of anything.""We take risks when we allow ourselves to love.""Things will either get worse or better, but they won’t stay the same.""The irony is that people don’t really give a damn.
They’re too preoccupied with themselves."“Make sure what you’re doing is for you.""Don’t hang your future on a hope that may not be there.""Family members tend to stick together in matters like this, even if they don’t get along.""I’ve always wanted things to be easy.
I've read the first five books a number of times, but this is the first one where I don't actually remember whodunit or why, which will make for a nice surprise when it's revealed.
I know I'm over thinking things, but details like that bother me.I had forgotten how early on in the series Scarpetta gets caught up in the politics of murder and I was surprised by the climax of the investigation.
The killer was revealed way before the actual climax, but I didn't guess/remember how it was all going to end until I read it.
These descriptions are well-done, but inconsistent with the rest of the stylism, and therefore jarring and out of place.Finally, I understand that Cornwell has a lot of experience and inside knowledge with regards to the investigative procedures and medical examinations, which does lend the book a strong authoritative tone.
I understand that a medical examiner is naturally prone to such things, but in All That Remains, it happens often enough and clumsily enough that it begins to look less like true character development, and more like Cornwell attempting to over-authenticate the expertise found in the novel.
This was a reread from over ten years ago, so it felt almost like new to me. I can always count on this series to keep the pages turning and the interest high. The ending was a little too......not pat. Maybe a little far-fetched? Convoluted. But definitely a worthwhile read. Looking forward to getting caught-up with this series. I think the next one will be a reread too and then I'll be in new territory.
Because this book is a bit more of a forensic mystery, the conclusion was a little unexpected, given that I don't actually know any more about forensics than what I've learned on SVU and Forensic Files.
What was a little extra compelling was that there was sort of a mystery within a mystery because Scarpetta was kept in the dark on some of the investigation.
It kept me reading and I don't really seek out mysteries, so that's good.There was a bit of breaking of Van Dine's 21 mystery-writing rules--there was a bit of wonderment surrounding cigarette butts left at the scene.
The book makes a good start and PC actually went so far as to develop some of the characters.
I thought this book was going to be different from the first two...I was wrong.She did the same thing she did in the other two.
She has a great plot and some interesting characters, but they really seem to go no where.
I actually thought it was just the end of a chapter, not the end of the book.
When I turned the page and saw that it was the end, I actually said, "What the hell...?" out loud.
The setup seemed promising: young lovers on road trips disappear, their cars found abandoned, and months later their bodies are found by hunters in the woods. But Cornwell did nothing interesting with this, and as in her previous novel Body of Evidence has the killer parachute in at the last minute. Who the *&^% cares about a killer introduced in such a way? The only way to maintain narrative tension in a whodunnit is to be wondering which of the characters you already know dunnit.
Conditioned by my previous experiences with detective novels whenever I begin a Scarpetta book I expect a straightforward mystery, and every time Cornwell crafts a story that's everything but.
The fact that Cornwell raises these issues and that everything filters through Kay, the protagonist, makes her a complex individual who navigates a personal and professional maze every day and knows that things are much less straightforward than she would like to see, a person who regularly thinks about life and people, and not just on a simple day-to-day level.
Thriller, mystery, who done it, really all of the aforementioned.For a number of years young couples have going missing only to turn up 4 or 5 months later, dead.
The mother of the dead girl is demanding results and she wants them now.
wants to give the mother any information she can but the FBI is asking Dr. Kay to do nothing until the FBI give her the go ahead.
Dr. Kay's level of frustration is also going through the roof so decides to do a little investigation on her own, with Pete Marino help.
3 StarsThis was another easy and engaging murder-mystery by Cornwell. In this 3rd instalment, medical examiner, Kay Scarpetta, becomes embroiled (yet again) in a murder case in which several young couples have been kidnapped and murdered in the woods of Virginia by an unknown assailant. Once again Kay is joined by cop Marino and FBI profiler Benton while working the case. Unfortunately, I'm still unfeeling towards this cast of characters, but fortunately I enjoy the mystery plots enough to continue reading this series at a leisurely pace.
Ocjena ostaje nepromijenjena i naklon drugog čitanja. Lagano štivo, ali jednostavno nije moj cup of tea.
“All That Remains”, 1992, was sure to score four stars but received three.A person I liked died and it wasn't clear why, nor was a detail about the crimes that was discussed a lot.
If the other person's presence was unrelated, was the Mother's timing a coincidence?
Doesn't she think a happily-partnered person can make exciting mysteries?
It is a pleasure to see his friendship grow with Kay and I like her friendship with Abby.
They are my favourite parts of the series, bolstered by the author's focus on advancing her mysteries.
Despite being tragic and gory, Patricia's mysteries sweep me along.
Another satisfying Scarpetta story. Five young couples murdered after possibly being hunted in the woods. Lots of twists and turns, the FBI and the CIA are covering something, Kay's old love resurfaces, her reporter friend Abby smells a big story and it rattles along. The conclusion is tragic and oddly unsatisfying but all in all a good read.
The ex-husband has been out of her life for a few years, and she is still hurting over her last boyfriend, a secretive FBI (or maybe not) agent who she still feels betrayed her.Four couples have been done to death!
At first, no one knew 'The Couple Murders' were linked, but when forensic evidence and body position commonalities were noticed at all locations where the bodies were found, a Violent Criminal Apprehension Program (VICAP) regional team is assembled, consisting of Richmond homicide detective Pete Marino, FBI Special Agent Benton Wesley, and of course, Dr. Scarpetta.
Pros of this book:-The protagonist is not in any way, shape or form a Mary Sue-she's....somewhat goo

A number of small mentions did feel familiar, such as the drama with the initialed cartridge, though maybe that's a recurring plotpoint in a future Scarpetta book.I struggled to connect with this book to the point where I nearly considered giving up on it entirely multiple times throughout.
Sure, doing that for one book in the series is cool and I did quite like it in Postmortem because the killer was on a schedule and the reporter was an intrinsic part of the story, however, here Cornwell doesn't even properly elaborate as to what the FBI are planning which goes to show that even she doesn't know how she wants to play it.
One of the great things about reading a series is you get to attached to the characters - as you go deeper into the series you get to know them better and they start to feel like your friends, family...
Like I said earlier, the dead-end in the investigation adds another layer and dimension to the story, and Kay’s entangled relationship with Mark and the volatile friendship with Abby also made this book emotionally engaging.
Although the very ending felt a tad bit rushed, overall, I certainly enjoyed reading this book.
This was a solid 3 stars for me. I've read a few of these Kay Scarpetta books. There are two things in this author's books that I enjoy so much. One is the MC, Kay. I like her. She is strong but she also has flaws and weaknesses that keeps her on her toes. The second thing is that there are great subplots.  I love that. I listened to the audio and one of my favorite narrators did this one, C. J Critt. So yay for that.
Gosto das personagens desta série policial, estão bem construídas, são interessantes, assim como as relações que mantêm entre si - gosto sobretudo da personagem principal, a médica legista Kay Scarppetta, e o detetive Marino. Aquilo de que não gostei tanto foi da abordagem policial tipicamente americana, demasiadamente centrada na ação, que sofre inúmeras voltas e contravoltas devido a enganos provocados por teorias da conspiração ligada são FBI e à CIA. Não aprecio muito este género.
A couple daya ago i was checking the Cornwell books in here, trying to remember which one have i read, and they all looked the same...
No muy buena señal...The first book i read from this author, and almost the first one of this kind.
Not so sure...El primer libro que me leo de esta tia, y casi el primero de este estilo.
Esta entretenido y se lee muy rapido, pero no me parece especialmente sorprendente.
No se yo...The first book i read from this author, and almost the first one of this kind.
although the novel itself is rather forgettable, the central characterization is memorable.
dry, formidable, determined, prone to various neurotic relationships...
kay scarpetta is a strong creation.
unfortunately the forensic science takes a backseat to the police procedural aspects in this entry in the long-running series.
the odd way in which protagonists find themselves involved in murder is part of the charm of cozy mysteries; however the clinical details and chilly atmosphere of cornwell's novels are a far cry from cozy and are more in line with the realistic complexities of the superior novels of p.d. james...
Okay book. Refreshing with a crime novel that does not follow the typical death/murder-investigating-main character gets into trouble/gets abducted-plot.
Unfortunately, this killer is very accomplished at leaving no trace; however, one tiny error could lead the investigators down the right path.I thought this book was well thought out and was a very enthralling read.
I liked how this book had a major cross over with other agencies and the reader was able to follow how cases work with cross jurisdictions.The author weaves a story that will keep you guessing all the way until the end, and at the end of the novel everything is not always tied up in a neat little bow which is quite refreshing.
I remember first reading this when I was in my 20s and thought Kay Scarpetta was really old.
Twenty years later, when Kay and I are MUCH closer in age and I think "wow....she wasn't old at all" Ahh perspective :-).
Also, there is no way, like in Agatha Christie mysteries, you could even take a stab at who did the crime as they don't appear until the very end.
I still liked it though.
Such a nostalgic read for me.
Vintage Scarpetta is the best!
I am very eager to continue my re-read of the very young and spunky Scarpetta :-)
On the third book and I swear every book has the same ending: the killer getting killed. Praying this doesn't continue cause it's seriously getting annoying although this book is far better than the rest.
Huh, I don't know why I didn't mark this one as read sooner! I finished it weeks ago. Whoops. Review to follow!
I liked it.
Was a slow burner, you had to be patient throughout this book.
A lot of it was a waiting game because of so little evidence and what they could go on.The forensic side was very detailed which I liked, something it is gone into or brushed over, depending on the Author’s knowledge.
She sure knew what she was writing about, which was nice to see.Like the rest of the book, the ending was a slow burner.
I was expecting a big explosion at the end.
Mainly because I think the main character wasn’t really involved all that much in the ending it felt a bit lacking because it happened to other people.
