https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1794059.Dark_Carnival
both sorts of stories have a thinness to them, a smallness of purpose, that can be rather eye-rolling to a reader like myself who is always looking for resonance over effects and startling climaxes.
in this story he is the hero, and his interests come in very handy when dealing with the bizarre supernatural killer who is renting a room upstairs.the most striking story for me was the brief "The Night", written in second person, and basically the story of a little girl and her mother's moments of terror while looking at a ravine in the dark, not hearing a boy who should have been home hours ago.
After reading Michael Dirda's book Browsings I wanted to read some Bradbury short stories so I was planing on rereading The Illustrated Man then I discovered I had this book which I'd never read Bradbury's first collection.
So glad I did it was just what I was looking for.
So many great stories, the first one "The Homecoming" is one of my favorites, story a about a normal boy in a weird family.
Later in the collection I was pleasantly surprised to find a sequel of sorts "Uncle Einar".
It's a fun story and you can watch it on Ray Bradbury Theater youtube .
Bradbury was the master of melancholy, nostalgia and all the other things in between that make you all soft inside. He was one of the very few writers that could accurately capture the strange feelings that overcome us in Autumn, the long-lost loves, losses and lusts whose echoes can still be found in the gusts of October wind and drops of November rain.
U stvari, prošitao sam samo 13 izabranih priča iz ove Bredberijeve zbirke u izdanju McMillan-a.Šta da kažem?
To je skup zaista mračnih priča.
Nema pravednih, samo možda očajnih, ne baš vrednih preteranog sažaljenja.
Lestvica zala i strahova u čoveku, koja ostavlja bez nade.
Uz to, ni deca nisu pošteđena.
Pogotovu deca, koja su česti akteri ovih priča (što je za moj ukus potpuno odbojno).
Mislim da samo jedna od priča ima spokojan kraj, iako sve vreme nagoveštava isti osećaj kao i druge.Dakle, nije to moja šolja čaja, što kažu.
Temný karneval sa skladá z 25 poviedok, ktoré majú odlišnú dĺžku, boli uverejnené (alebo sa o to aspoň Bradbury snažil) v rôznych periodikách, následne zozbierané a vydané knižne v roku 1947.
Každá jedna z nich je hrôzostrašná, venuje sa všedným dňom ľudí s nevšednými problémami a je opatrená krátkym autorovým predhovorom o tom, ako vlastne krátka próza, ktorú sa chystáte čítať, vznikla a hlavne prečo.
Týchto 25 poviedok sa naozaj môže popýšiť pestrým svetom, prostredím, postavami, zápletkami, gradáciami aj umeleckými postupmi, ktoré si autor pri písaní vybral.
Ponúka vám vlastne stručný prehľad Bradburyho spisovateľského dozrievania v ešte stále „málo populárnom“ žánri.Viac sa dočítate na našej stránke Fantasy-svet.sk!
The collection of stories found in Dark Carnival is a trip into normal things turned into obscure and scary events.Just think about something you'd never consider before.
Ray Bradbury probably managed to turn it into some scary shit.Your skeleton, for instance.
It might be trash, but it's enjoyable trash.Not that I would call this collection trash, some of them are very good stories and most of them are interesting ideas turned haywire which makes them unique.
Many of the stories are either about, or told from the perspective of children, and in Bradbury's hands childhood becomes both a receptacle of or vehicle for deep dread and horror.
In Bradbury’s hands we get a story that will horrify even the most jaded adept of weird fiction.
The only reason I didn't give the book five stars was the inclusion of three of Bradbury's ‘Family’ stories, starting with ‘The Homecoming’.
They didn't fit with the overall atmosphere of the book, and I think it would have been stronger without them.
This is a welcome edition (caveats below), with B/W thumbnail reproductions of the covers for the magazines in which the stories first appeared, informative introductions, a few extra stories written at the same time, reproductions of some of Bradbury's typed manuscripts, etc.
The book is expensive, and it is a pity that after expending so much time and money on the extra features for this edition, the editors did not take more care with the actual texts, which suffer from inconsistent capitalizations, random spelling/scanning errors, awkward line-breaks, etc.
Man, this collection of short stories of horror, by the sci-fi legend Ray Bradbury, which started so promisingly, went downhill in the latter half.
I read the first 2/3rds of the book in a couple of sittings, but struggled on the last third over a fortnight.
Bradbury describes in detail how time slows down for her, with every hour, every minute dragging on.
And this mirrored my own mind so eerily accurately, as I felt my teeth gnash as I tried to finish the book.The stories contained herein, though the belong squarely in the horror genre, are seldom scary.
I think I read every short story from Bradbury at least 3 times already but I will read them many, many more.
Так как эта книга с рассказами, то сложно говорить понравилась она мне или нет. Какие-то рассказы были интересными и было даже жаль, что они такие короткие, а с другими было наоборот. Но в целом, книга оставляет больше неприятные ощущения. Однако это лучше, чем книга, которая не оставила после прочтения никаких мыслей и эмоций. В целом, это не лучшее из творчества Бредбери, но если хочется чего-то необычного и немного даже жуткого, то советую к прочтению.
deliciously frightful!
Over 50 years out of print the October release of DARK CARNIVAL by RAY BRADBURY will be the literary event of the year for Bradbury fans. After many years Ray Bradbury has agreed to allow this classic to be published in a LIMITED edition, with bonus material, edited by his long-time bibliographer Donn Albright. With the space allowed here we can't provide details of ALL the bonus material, but for complete details check out the Gauntlet Press website. The cover art is a Bradbury oil painting fr
After many years Ray Bradbury has agreed to allow this classic to be published in a LIMITED edition, with bonus material, edited by his long-time bibliographer Donn Albright.
The cover art is a Bradbury oil painting from Albright’s personal collection, painted by Bradbury around the time of the original publication of DARK CARNIVAL.
There is also “The Poems” “Bang, You’re Dead” and “The Seashells.” Other bonus material include Bradbury’s original proposal for DARK CARNIVAL, a detailed proposal for a ballet with handwritten notes Bradbury made to himself, the original U.S. and U.K. versions of the cover, story notes in Bradbury’s own words from a taped session with Donn Albright and far more.
I like this early stuff before he became too literary ! With the exception of the last story, The Next in Line, These stories have more impact and punch then a lot of his later stuff. I would have given it 4 stars except for the last story which was the vague drawn out type of story I don't like.
Most of the work in this book was updated, and published again in "The October Country." And since The October Country was more popular, Dark Carnival never saw a reissue.
In 2001, Gauntlet Press reissued this book as a Limited Edition, while adding a bunch of unreleased stories that were written back in the 1940's.
So, this made for a very large collection by Bradbury.There are some great stories here.
This book is primarily horror, with a lot of vampire stories.
Overall, this isn't the best Bradbury collection, but it was enjoyable.
Add in the unreleased stories, and this was a valuable Bradbury read.
There are a few writers who seem to have a gift of endless ideas spurting out of their heads, and Bradbury's definitely one (Stephen King is another).
The only low point of the book was the final story, about a woman going crazy in Mexico.
For some reason, stories about people going crazy and stories about people's dreams have always bored me.
Books as diverse as The Sheltering Sky and L Ron Hubbard's Fear have this in common, and the last story here was overlong, with nothing interesting happening after the mummy scene early on until the page.
All in one book, the quality is uneven but it would have been so cool to come across one of these dark stories in Mademoiselle magazine in, say, 1945.The Smiling People: Creepy story with the ending you were dreading.The Emissary - okay this story scared me - I did do a running jump on to my bed in the dark after reading in order to avoid whatever was underneath.
The story ends with scary, slow footsteps coming up the stairs!The Coffin - fun as hell to read!Jack-In-The-Box: A child raised isolated in a victorian mansion by his insane mom - good stuff!The Man Upstairs: Who or what is the creepy sleeper in the bedroom upstairs?
Some of the stories aren't really five star, unless you read them in the context of Bradbury's future greatness. Dark Carnival was out of print for fifty years when, in 2001, he finally allowed Gauntlet Press to publish this reprint. There are substantial changes to some of the stories that later appeared in The October Country, which is the first collection that many readers first came to know Bradbury's work. I would say go out and read Dark Carnival right away, but now ever this reprint is long out of print.
Bradbury's first book has 27 stories in the horror vein, some of which seem tailor-made for the EC comics that came along a few years later. A few qualify as juvenilia, some are interesting-to-good and a few are creepily brilliant, especially Homecoming, Skeleton and The Small Assassin. I wondered for years what this book was like. For all but the diehards, The October Country (in which the best are reprinted) will suffice.
Stephen King recommended author and book. In 1981's Danse Macabre, King dedicated his book as follows: "It's easy enough - perhaps too easy - to memorialize the dead. This book is for the six great writers of the macabre who are still alive." The six listed were Robert Bloch, Jorge Luis Borges, Ray Bradbury, Frank Belknap Long, Donald Wandrei, Manly Wade Wellman.Book favorably mentioned in Chapter 2 of Berkley's 1983 paperback edition of Danse Macabre.
Macabre stories... kind of like Poe meets Tim Burton/Roald Dahl. Amazingly literate writing for stories that were published in Weird Tales, but oddly backward looking in theme. I docked this a point for the supernatural horror element, which is impossible to believe and so makes this all seem ultimately trivial. But in this first book from Bradbury you see the seeds of his future genius.
I definitely enjoyed this more than Driving Blind. The stories seemed to be better paced, with much more engaging characters, and several stories that actually gave me a good case of the creeps, this was an enjoyable read.
I'd read these stories before in various other collections, most of them in The October Country, but that didn't stop me from re-reading them. I could read Bradbury forever. And reading his stories this time of year is especially rewarding.
A supremely well-written and exceptionally creepy collection of short stories from Bradbury, who is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors. Great for this time of year as well.
It's basically The October Country, but there certainly are some differences. If you can find it, read it. If not, read October Country.
