https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/821018.Just_Grandma_and_Me
a) Text-to-Self Connection: How does the story connect to your personal experiences or background?This story connects to my life because i have a strong and loving relationship with my grandmother.
I use to watch everything she did at work and then go home and teach my teddy bears the same way my grandmother taught her students.
my grandmother is an excellent cook she even taught me how to make her famous red velvet cake .
I love when she straighten my hair and put big curls in it.
As of today i still have a strong and loving relationship with my grandma.
Cute little story I read to carmine. Book was given to him from his grandma
In this story, Little Critter takes a trip to the beach with his Grandma.
Little Critter is faced with a number of different challenges during his visit to the shore but overcomes each of them.
I like the way Little Critter overcomes his problems and finds solutions.
While reading the story the teacher could use the flip chart to show students how these words connect two ideas.
Little Critter experiences many different things during his trip with Grandma.
After reading "Just Grandma and Me", students could be assigned a writing activity where they make their own at the beach story.
Summary: This story follows the little critter as he spends the day at the beach with his grandma.Evaluation: The story is a easy read. The story focuses on the little critter's time spent with his family and the importance of that in which many students can relate to.Teaching Ideas: This would be a great model to use when instructing students to write a story based on their own experiences-just as the little critter does!
A just okay Little Critter book. This is a good book for Grandma and grandchild to read together.
Little Critter spends the day at the beach with his Grandma, and through adorable illustrations and short sentences, Mercer Mayer gives his young readers a glance at typical beach activities.
classic
Another favorite of my kids and now my grandkids. These books have always been my favorite.
Read with G'mamaOwned by Great Grandma who used to read it to JimRating by Trent
Wonderful book...maybe someday I will have grandchildren.
Adventures with Grandma. What could be better?
In each instance, the main character (who looks to be some sort of rodent) encounters a problem and then shows what should be done to fix the problem.
The depth of the characters is not described in depth, and not much background is provided because the focus of the story is no cause and effect and how problem solving involved.
The illustrations are fun and cartoonish and the elaborate nature of them (such as the main character flying away while holding an umbrella due to the strong winds) are fun for students and help to paint a picture for the students of what is occurring.

This book is about Critter (from the Little Critter series) spending a day at the beach with his grandma.
He starts it off with doing a few things wrong, but they end the day with having a long but very fun day at the beach.
I used to love reading this book with my grandma.
I would come home from school and she would read it to me almost everyday.
I think part of what I liked about it was the pictures, but also that it just let me spend time with my grandma, which I think is an important part of growing up for kids.
"Just Grandma and Me" was a great book in my opinion, as it reminded me of the adventures of school supply shopping that my own grandmother and I used to do. I loved how the book portrayed such a great relationship between the grandma and grandchild, as children should respect and have fun with their family members, and in return grandparents be there for their children, like the book. I also enjoyed looking at the illustrations and how humor was incorporated, as well as grandma constantly making things fun for her grandchild.
As a kid I loved this book paired with the interactive game that came with it. The game went through each page in the book, reading it to you, than you could click on things and they would make sounds or do something. Great for a beginning reader. It's easy to read, full of wonderful illustrations. It's about Little Critter's day with his grandma. Getting dropped off at grandma's house, waiting for the train, going on a train ride, and everything that entails getting to the beach and once again returning home.
Grandma takes our little hero to the beach, just them two.
And our hero wants to do all sorts of things - fly a kite, swim, build a sand castle - but most of these activities don't go quite right.But, hero and Grandma still have a wonderful time!The story isn't anything that stellar, but the illustrations are adorable (the expressions of the characters in the background, the continuing saga of the spider and the grasshopper, etc.).
The illustrations add a lot to the "warm and fuzzy" feeling of the story, and will give visually inclined children a lot to pour over.
This book is very cute because, as always, little critter tells the story, and what little critter says is not quite what little critter does. Kids reading this will catch on to this concept and will start to guess what will happen next. This book is very humorous. The pictures are very delightful and fun to look at while you are reading the book. I would recommend a grandma to read this to her grandchildren.
Grandma takes our little hero to the beach, just them two. Our hero( the Little Critter) wants to do all sorts of things - fly a kite, swim, build a sand castle - but most of these activities don't go quite right. Despite all things, the hero and grandma still have a wonderful time!This book would help to be used during character building lessons. I loved the colorful pictures.In addition, the book can be used for an independent, or maybe reading with a partner identifying the repetitions.
An uncomplicated tale that the kids have loved. And, of course, they like to find the mouse and the spider that appear on each page.
My Children love all Mercer Mayer story books. These books are easy for children to make connections with at a young age and illustrations are fun. Just Grandma and Me would be well used during character building lessons. Children can join in on read aloud due to repetition of phrases “just grandma and me.”
I discovered this book and many more of the same series and same auhor in my CT's collection. Fun book children can continue to enjoy with so many to choose from.This one shares what this young one did with their Grandma for the day. Something alot of children can relate to and enjoy. Other titles have similarily relateable topics.Kindergarten and up.
Just Grandma and Me is a picture book in which the pictures confirm the meaning of the written words. This book shows all of the things that a grandma and her grandson did while at vacation at the beach. A child with an emergent reading level would enjoy this book. The book could be used for a guided reading.
Fun Little Critter book starring Grandma and me on a trip to the beach. The usual attempts at play and helping out with the results not always being quite what the adults want to see. Fun to read aloud or for early Readers to read with help. My daughter appreciated the simple words and the repetition as she read it aloud to me.
We have a lot of Little Critter books.They're short, they're funny, they're topical, and they're cheap.As usual, Little Critter's view of events and the actual illustrations don't quite mesh together nicely. This is a source of endless amusement for young children.Good book, one I'd recommend easily.
These are really good books and are always cute. This is a really cute book and makes me want to read more of these. I love the pictures in this book and the story is really cute as well. I would recommend this book to anyone with children.
I would use this book to do a lesson on predicting. After the first couple of pages, it is obvious that everything Little Critter does ends in disaster. It would be fun for the students to try to predict what was going to happen next.
Little Critter goes with Grandma to the beach. Of course in Little Critter tradition things do not always go as planned. He still has a fun time with Grandma. Each picture is full of objects and people to look at and talk about. It is even more fun when read with your Grandma.
Grandma and Me is a bout a little boy porcupine who goes to the beach with his grandma for the day. This book is an easy read and would be a good addition to any classroom library. However, I would not recommend this as a classroom read aloud or as an assigned reading for students.
Cute although it gets old after you read it over and over. Think I'll hide it away until Grandmas come to visit. I love the artwork in the Mercer Mayer books. Like many other children's books, I think I appreciate this more than the kids do at this point.
