https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151787.Song_of_Years
The Midwest setting and the time period were lovingly portrayed, and I'm going to miss the prairies with their wheat and corn crops.
(There's also something very satisfying about reading about blizzards and sub-zero temperatures when the temperature outside is 97°.)The people in this novel were hardy, hard-working, reliable, common sense people, who did what it took to survive and prosper, and gave help to neighbors when needed.
"Song of Years" is a library book and must be returned, but I'll be looking for a copy for my shelves.
It's a book I'll read again.
This was my mothers favorite book as a girl and she introduced it to me for the first time when I was 14.
I have now passed the legacy down to my oldest daughter, who loved it and will encourage my next daughter to read it this year.
:) He rarely reads novels, but he was also taken by this one and Jeremiah Martin has become a dear friend to him as well--one who I have caught him trying to introduce to our sons numerous times.
I got a small peak at what it must be like to be a parent of grown children and how the parenting job never really ends but is magnified in different ways.
Little snippets like that really gave the book life.This book is such a good love story.
That part lacked a little bit of realism in some instances, but who cares :).
It wasn't what I would have imagined (her being so demure and quiet), so maybe I didn't really get the full picture of the character like I thought I had.
I first read this book about 40 years ago and I can't believe I've found it again after all these years! It was one of my favorite books in the high school library and have wanted to reread it to see if it was as wonderful a story as I remembered. I've ordered it online and look forward to seeing "an old friend".
I read this a number of years ago and for some reason never reviewed it. I've reread the ending several times! It's a family drama set in Iowa territory, ending years later toward the end of the Civil War era. The characters are some of the most memorable I've encountered.
An excellent classic saga. I enjoyed every minute of it...even though it was 490 pages.
I wish I had read this book much sooner, as it is a really a pioneer story of the history of Cedar Falls and Waterloo, Iowa.
I loved reading about the main character, Jeremiah Martin, who is actually Bess Streeter's grandfather, Zimri Streeter, who was one of the founders of Cedar Falls, Iowa, and was active in founding the Republican Party and took part in the Iowa Legislature, and rode to Georgia during the Civil War to bring back the ballots of the soldiers.
Other characters are also based on actual people living in Cedar Falls, during that time.
I'm especially bummed by the fact that the book is no longer in print - so I'll be scouring antique shops, half-priced book stores, library sales, etc until I find a copy for my very own.
This is definitely one I plan to read again and again.I picked this book up after doing a search of my library's catalog for books and materials for research for a novel I'm writing.
Because I had family that came from the same region as where the story took place, I was definitely able to relate to all the characters - even stuck in the mud Ambrose.Loved loved loved this book - I hope her others can match this one!
I picked up this book quite a while ago and lost interest after a few chapters.
I guess I'd been in the mood for something more fast paced.
But I'd heard so many good things about it (and it's my mother-in-law's favorite book) so I tried it again.
This time I wondered why I'd ever put it down.
It's not fast paced.
Interesting to read about that time period from some early settlers' point of view.
This book is out of print now and copies are hard to come by but if you ever do get one, hang on to it.
The fictional part follows the Martin Family as an integral pioneer family with 7 girls and 2 boys -their lives and loves on the small town rural frontier.This book is not a rip-roaring, thrill-around-every-page book.
It meanders along like the Red Cedar River where the towns are situated.
I loved the way the author would occasionally allude to future events throughout the book.
By the time I got to the last fourth of the book, I had to keep reading - I was so caught up in their lives.
(As opposed to A Lantern in Her Hand, which is wonderful because it continues on AFTER they get married, which to me is interesting.) Also, there were some good characters- like all the sisters, but you don't REALLY get to know them very well.
And, because of those other things I said, it was a bit slow and I found myself skimming.
I did condense the story down and told my family about it at dinner time, because it did have its interesting bits.
A Lantern in Her Hand is 50 times better than this one.
I think it must have been a day after school during 8th grade.
I had no idea it was written during the late 19th century until much later.
I loved it so much that I wrote a term paper on it later in high school.
That was a long time ago.
Each time I pick it up I rediscover every description of the prairie, every breathless detail.
It still remains my favorite book of all time.
I was so endeared to the author that I plan to read every work by Bess Streeter Aldrich.
I recently acquired an edition signed by the author from ebay.
Bess Streeter Aldrich is probably the queen of prairie books.
I read "A Lantern in her Hand" when I was twelve, and thought it was great.
After that, I tried to read all of her books.
As for the story--the hero and the heroine are kept apart for way too long--until the last page.
I stayed up late at night reading, to make sure the hero would show up at the last minute to save the heroine from marrying the bad guy.
Aside from that, the writing is beautiful and poetic, and the descriptions of the prairie make you feel that you're there.
I don't think I can write a review that does this book justice. Fabulous! A portrait of an American family in the early days of the westward movement, and what happens as the nine children grow up, marry, and follow their destiny. Compelling storyline, coupled with Mrs. Aldrich's masterly writing, makes this book a gem. Don't miss it.
I'm going to have to try this book again at another time. This book moved a little too slow for me. I kept waiting for the story to get to the climax but it never did. I gave up and just skipped ahead to find out what happened between the young couple.
A little old-fashioned in writing style, but a wonderful story with characters you can't help but root for, a lovely romance, and a pioneer setting that makes you feel you are there. One of my all-time favorites!
This is one of those old, sometimes hard-to-find books, but such a gem! I finally bought it used and it has been one of my favorites. I love all the books I've read by Bess Streeter Aldrich and would recommend any of them.
I immenseY enjoyed this adult pioneer era read. There were lots of details and the story at times seems to move slowly, however, the sweetness and family ties transcend. I love that the author develops several characters and shows us their development rather than telling us.
The pioneer love story of Suzanne and Wayne, in the new state of Iowa. Takes place during pre- and post-Civil War era.
I love Bess Streeter Aldrich but I just could not get through this book. It had none of the appeal of most of her other books and short stories -- at least not for me.
I'd never read this one before---lovely story.
I love the part where Suzanne goes out with her students to watch the train full of soldiers leaving.. Wayne Lockwood stops the whole train just for her. "Yes, he's my lover."
3* This is a charming old pioneer story. I found the Martin sisters enjoyable, but the story moved slowly without much action.
Like all of Bess Streeter Aldrich's books, this book is enjoyable but rather depressing at the same time.
I love how the story starts and ends – with the introduction of a stone in an old pioneer’s graveyard “Suzanne beloved wife of” and the conclusion at the end of the story whose beloved she was. It’s the story about Suzanne Martin and her one true love but it also portraits the Martin family with their 7 daughters and 2 sons, their friends and neighbors and how they all form a tight knit community that faces not only immediate family and first settler’s events and tragedies but also the horrors of the Civil War.
Impossible to give an unbiased review since I originally read this, one of my mother's favorite stories, as a child in a first edition my mother owned. Plus, my mother gave me a middle name that is that of the lead female in this romance, Suzanne. A sweeping story that doesn't get blinkered on just a romantic pair. Details are given to the historic time, many characters, the environment. One is transported to the prairie. To this day when I pass a graveyard I see more than just the stones.
It was an okay story. Simplistic writing and a too-drawn out story line. It was recommended to me because of the setting (early Iowa settlers)
What a lovely story--I couldn't read it fast enough. It's lighter, that's for sure, but I loved reading about our country at a younger age. I've always had a romantic vision of myself as a pioneer girl, so this book had me on page 1.
My grandparents gave this book to me for my high school graduation in 1995. I read it 2-3 times a year...it is well written & never fails to life my spirits.
the first novel I ever read as a young girl ~ loved reading from then on.
