https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28921.The_Remains_of_the_Day
Kazuo Ishiguro writes the anti-haiku: instead of consciousness awakening to the immediacy of the immutable natural world, subjective memory is peeled back layer by layer to expose consciousness; instead of the joyous eruption of awareness, the tension of the gradual decompression of ignorance; instead of a humility that acknowledges the unknowable on its own terms, rambling that tries to fill the chasm of existential angst that has suddenly opened up like a sinkhole in being.
When his new employer -- a wealthy American that is himself a signifier of the changed order of postwar Europe -- urges him to take a brief vacation, Stevens is forced to face the consequences of his life's decisions.Without his domestic rituals to brace him, his identity unravels.
And if some of us are prepared to sacrifice much in life in order to pursue such aspirations, surely that is in itself, whatever the outcome, cause for pride and contentment.”Williams Stevens is a one of the few remaining “great”, devoted butlers, employed most of his life at Darlington Hall in the service of Lord Darlington.
There was surely nothing to indicate at the time that such evidently small incidents would render whole dreams forever irredeemable.”The language used by the author is beautiful, exquisite.
This is one of the most beautifully mannered, subtle books I've read in a long, long time.
Remains of the Day is also one of the best examples of first person POV that I've read.
For all that Stevens himself agonises over 'banter' and 'wit' and how to be amusing, this book is very funny itself in some places; it's a fine example of a comedy of manners.
The subtlety of it all, and Stevens often painful obliviousness to social cues really lends itself well to that.
It's not what happens in this story that's important, it's what doesn't happen.
It's not what is said, but what is not said.I almost feel like Stevens in a real person and not a fictional character.
It was a bittersweet moment when he admitted to his heart breaking...I hurt so badly for him but for the first time he acknowledge his emotions and so I was happy for me.This story reminds me of why it is important to LIVE your life.I do hope Stevens uses the remains of his day to learn to banter and create friendships for himself.
“Haruki Murakami, Salman Rushdie, Margaret Atwood, Cormac McCarthy, all of them immediately came into my head and I just thought wow, this is a bit of a cheek for me to have been given this before them.Ishiguro is good, and this book is very good.
He must see deeper into the regretful decisions he has made, though he can never fully acknowledge such regret because to do so would be to destroy himself, rendering an entire life meaningless, worthless and wasted.
There are degrees of regret within his story, but he cannot full let go; he cannot fully admit that he wishes he had lived his own life.
He has gone too far to simply change his ways.
“The evening's the best part of the day. You've done your day's work. Now you can put your feet up and enjoy it.” I suppose what one really needs at the end of it all, in the twilight of life, is to know that it was worth something, that there was some meaning, some purpose to it. Because if it was all in vain, why even try?With The Remains of the Day Kazuo Ishiguro created a masterpiece, mesmerizing, evocative, subtle, elegant and perfectly crafted, with precise mastery of language, setting an
Stevens in his earnest devotion remains loyal to the memory of Lord Darlington, never fully admitting that the man he had spent his life serving and admiring was in fact not so great.
After all, he has based his entire self-worth, his entire sense of being on devotedly serving a supposedly great and noble man, feeling that in some little way he, Stevens, had something to do with shaping the fate of the world.
I gave him the very best I had to give, and now - well - I find I do not have a great deal more left to give.”---------“Lord Darlington wasn't a bad man.
Highly atmospheric, combined with Ishiguro’s incredible prose that gives hidden beauty and messages within each word and paragraphs, The Remains of the Day compelled me to read the book within two sittings.
Ishiguro’s prose here is truly a delight to read, it’s evocative, beautiful, and inspirational.If I was reading this back when I was maybe 15 years old, this book probably wouldn’t have that much impact simply because there weren’t enough monumental turning points to ponder yet.
Beautiful, beautiful book, wonderful writing, great story.
I am now officially a fan of Ishiguro, a book so different from Never let me go, which was also an incredible story to me.
This story however is very different but equally high quality, which in my opinion indicates the quality of the writer, able to put down totally different stories, both intriguing in their own way.
It is beautiful in language, heartbreaking in storyline, gives a view of life in England in between wars and how politics also reaches an English grand house, and also gives you food for thought on what is important in your life...
anyway,beautiful book.
The book „Was vom Tag übrig blieb” written by kazuo Ishiguro is about the duties and the value system of the butlers profession in a past era. This roman is written in a beautiful language which shows the perspectives of butlers responsibilities in former times. It includes themes like European history, politics and social structures in the 20th century, self-deception, lost love and the human dignity.Kazuo Ishiguro gives the protagonist Stevens a virtuously formulated narrative voice which repr
The book „Was vom Tag übrig blieb” written by kazuo Ishiguro is about the duties and the value system of the butlers profession in a past era.
This roman is written in a beautiful language which shows the perspectives of butler´s responsibilities in former times.
On the other hand the constant repetition of the word “töricht” throughout the whole book irritates me.To sum up I would say that I enjoyed the novel “Was vom Tag übrig blieb” and I`ll surely watch the movie based on this beautiful story.
So much is held within the pages of this marvelous book, the account of one of the last butlers to work at a large manor in England.
The love story is heart wrenching; the level of repression is palpable.I do love "Never Let Me Go", & this one seems more in tune with that one than, say, the marvelous "A Pale View of Hills", or the sick/sad/strange "When We Were Orphans." "Never Let Me Go" is about the wastes of youth, while "Remains" is about a life lived fully in a restricted state that's perpetual.
I can say this exceptionally profound novel is unrivaled in illuminating, and "getting through to the reader" on, two themes that are potentially life-changing for most every reader:1) the heartbreaking nature of reflecting and "forever speculating what might have happened had such and such a moment turned out differently?
that [one] should adopt a more positive outlook and try to make the best of what remains of the day";  and, conversely,2) the more crucial realization that one should look now for the crucial and precious moments in and of today, and should make every effort to sort out a relationship in one's life and endeavor to remedy misunderstandings with others.
"When work is a pleasure, life is a joy! When work is a duty, life is slavery." -Maxim Gorky.I bought this novel in tandem with Never Let Me Go, a book that proved to be so tedious I abandoned it, preferring to watch paint dry.Nevertheless, I was prepared to give Ishiguro the benefit of the doubt, wipe the slate clean and start afresh.The story is told from the POV of Mr Stevens, English butler to Mr Farraday, his nouveau riche American master: I invite you to imagine Mr Stevens to be an amalga
-Maxim Gorky.I bought this novel in tandem with Never Let Me Go, a book that proved to be so tedious I abandoned it, preferring to watch paint dry.Nevertheless, I was prepared to give Ishiguro the benefit of the doubt, wipe the slate clean and start afresh.The story is told from the POV of Mr Stevens, English butler to Mr Farraday, his nouveau riche American master: I invite you to imagine Mr Stevens to be an amalgam of Wodehouse's Jeeves, and Star Trek's Mr Spock.This might just be one of those very rare occasions where seeing the movie first actually enhances the reading experience.
As far as I could see this was like a maid and a butler in one of those British mansions that lords live in and they didn't shag each other.
It's like I could organise more interesting snail races.
Even if the snails fell asleep it would be more eventful than this book.
I would say that this book is supposed to be good and they made a film but this is a very good example of why literature is being replaced by computer games.
But maybe that's what gay British people are like, all butlers and maids and never shag each other.
this book is full of butlers
I feel a bit like Mr. Stevens, sitting on the pier at the end of the story, wondering how his life could have been different.
While Mr. Stevens is thinking of a lost love; I'm thinking of the bad books that could have been avoided if I had picked up Ishiguro instead.I'll keep the synopsis brief, since most of my GR friends have already read this.
Stevens is in a reflective mood after saying goodbye to Miss Kenton; he's sitting on the pier and is chatting with a stranger:"Lord Darlington wasn't a bad man.
An exquisite novel featuring one of the most fascinating unreliable narrators in all of fiction.In post-war England, Stevens, an aging, old-school English butler who’s worked for decades at Darlington Hall, plans a car trip to visit the estate’s former housekeeper, Miss Kenton, in the west country.
As the book opens in the mid-50s, Darlington Hall is owned by Mr. Farraday, an American businessman, and Stevens is stymied by the man’s habit of bantering.
Both, tellingly, involve class.What gives the book its heart, though, is the changing relationship between Stevens and Miss Kenton.
190. The Remains of the Day, Kazuo IshiguroThe "Remains of the Day", is a 1989 novel by Nobel Prize-winning British writer, Kazuo Ishiguro.نخستین خوانش: روز بیست و سوم ژوئن سال 1997 معنوان: بازمانده روز؛ نوشته: کازوئو ایشیگورو؛ مترجم: نجف دریابندری؛ تهران، کارنامه، 1375، شابک: 9644310020؛ موضوع: ادبیات ژاپن؛ قرن 20 ماخطار: اگر هنوز این رمان را نخوانده اید، و میخواهید آن را بخوانید، لطفا توجه داشته باشید که احتمال لو رفتن داستان در نوشتار این فراموشکار هستجایی دیده بودم: رمان بازمانده روز، کلاس ش
بازمانده ی روز داستان آقای استیونز، سرپیشخدمتی انگلیسی ست، که زندگی خود را وقف خدمت وفادارانه به لرد دارلینگتون کرده است.
همزمان با رسیدن نامه، موقعیتی برای استیونز پیش می‌آید؛ که بتواند به بهانه ی پژوهش، درباره ی استخدام مجدد خانم کنتن، دوباره برگردد سراغ رابطه‌ ای، که زمانی آن را بسیار دوست می‌داشت.
هرچه داستان به پیش می‌رود، نشانه‌ های عشق خانم کنتن به آقای استیونز، و تمایل متقابل او، آشکار می‌شود.
خانم بن، اعتراف می‌کند که گاهی به این فکر می‌کند، که زندگی با آقای استیونز، چگونه می‌توانست باشد؛ اما حالا دیگر شوهرش را دوست میدارد، و در انتظار تولد نخستین نوه‌ ی خویش است.
Through the life of Stevens, the protagonist and a quintessentially uptight English butler to a distinguished Lord, Ishiguro takes us on a journey of a nation through two wars which crippled it financially and relegated it to the sidelines of international politics as another nation slowly rose to take its place.
Of the unalterable mistakes committed in the course of a long and eventful journey - be it the journey of life of a man or one nation.Even though the verbosity of Ishiguro's prose may tend to make the narrative monotonous from time to time, it is never too big an impediment to navigate around.
During later readings, I focused more on the personal sacrifice of the butler who renounces private happiness to prove to himself that he is the best of his profession - pride and prejudice thus winning over sense and sensibility.Now, putting the novel into the hands of my own children, encouraging them to read it as part of our Nobel Collection, I find myself saying that this novel proves the danger of loyalty and of being rigidly true to one's origins and early opinions.I find myself lecturing - this novel held up as an example - on the need for courage to CHANGE!My reading of this novel has definitely changed over time, but it remains one of my favourite books - partly just because it speaks to me in different ways as I grow older and as I change my approach to life and literature.As we can't stop time from changing the world we live in, we should learn from the new impulses we receive from current developments, listen to our hearts and speak up against evil, especially if it is on our own doorstep.
Mr James Stevens, an English butler setting out towards the west country, is the most wonderful man, one could possibly have an encounter with.
Believing his service aided to the humanity itself, Mr Stevens always tried to do his job to the best of his ability and in return of such acquired professional excellence, he willigly sacrificed opportunities that brought often possibility of love and affection along.I wonder if I can ever want something as fervently as Mr Stevens does.
Winning the prestigious Man Booker prize, The Remains of the Day is one of the most highly regarded post-war British novels.
Beautiful, heartbreaking book of understatement and about the price for following convention amd one's sense of duty over the desires (expressed or not) of one's heart. I have not seen the movie yet, but I have heard it captured the subdued tone and deeper philosophical questions posed by Isihiguro's choices in narration and subjects.
Emma Thompson and Anthony Hopkins in the film - from The GuardianOver these few days, he looks back over his career to reassure himself that he has served humanity by serving “a great gentleman.” But lurking in his memory are doubts about the true nature of Lord Darlington’s “greatness” and graver doubts about his own faith in the man he served.
The film, of course, was magnificent.
If you have not yet seen it, don't deny yourself the pleasure.
And it would definitely be wrong to deny yourself the pleasure of reading this excellent book.
This is not a review of the book as such - but a blog post I wrote in March 2015, when I suddenly felt the onset of age.
I feel it can be an appropriate tribute to this wonderful novel.
This year in August, I will turn fifty-two.For the past few years, thoughts of my eventual demise have been persistent at the back of my brain.
It is not actually fear of death – it is more like the certainty of an unpleasant fact of life which cannot be avoided; something you would like to put off as much as po
In answer to his question on what is the most surprising thing in the world, Yudhishtira replies:Ahanyahani bhootaniGacchantiha yamalayamSeshah sthavaram icchantiKim ascharyam itah param(Every day, countless number of living entities go to the abode of the God of Death.
Even though I do not plan to physically move away to the forest, for all practical purposes, I shall withdraw from social life to one of reading and contemplation.Because evening is the best part of the day: I want to put my feet up and relax.Grow old along with me.
THE REMAINS OF THE DAY – AN OPEN LETTERDearest James,I know that introduction is a must, polite even, but on this one I do suggest that we skip that.
Don’t make a good match, do they?It was not difficult, as well, to notice the ever present topic of greatness and dignity throughout your entries.
Then, yes James, you are a great and dignified butler.
Great butlers will come and go, but a good friend, husband, or father will be cherished for all time.Oh, but James, if only you had taken the leap… Alas and alack, regret is not something we should dwell in.
Conscious of several small errors on his part and the necessity for a revised staff plan, he hits on the idea of fulfilling his employer's wishes by traveling through the West Country to the seaside town of Weymouth, where the former housekeeper of Darlington Hall, Miss Kenton, has communicated some desire to Stevens to return.
Stopping for the evening in Salisbury, Stevens reminisces on meeting Miss Kenton in the spring of 1922, when she arrived at Darlington Hall the same time Stevens also hired his father, William Stevens senior, to serve as under-butler.
It looked very short, almost novella-sized, but the way it captures a fading postwar era is absolutely incredible, and the characters really feel real.
I loved it and I'm looking for the film on VHS (good luck, right?) which if I remember correctly stars Anthony Hopkins.The Remains of the Day is much more than just a book reflecting a quaint era.
It's also the story of a life lived for others and the companions met along the way.
It's worth pointing out that this is not the only Ishiguro book about a life lived to serve others, sacrifice and fulfillment.
Dear Reader,It is my hope that this missive finds you in good stead and lodgings befitting a person who has displayed nothing but the utmost professionalism throughout their career.
Mr. Ishiguro has penned just such a novel with his revelatory volume, The Remains of the Day. Indeed, Mr. Stevens' engrossing account of his service to Lord Darlington touches upon the very fabric of service that binds together the working class.
I was able to appreciate a kindred spirit in Stevens, who so often has to place his personal desire to the side for sake of his duty.
Phenomenal!I'm at a loss for words, but I know this would be going to my all time favourites. A masterpiece.
A portrait of a man's understated, confined, repressed heartbreak.Stevens is an old fashioned English butler who takes his role so very seriously that the life of his master (Lord Darlington) comes first and foremost, and his own life passes by at a distant and distinct second.
At the twilight of his career, he takes an unprecedented trip through the countryside to visit with Miss Kenton, the former housekeeper at Darlington Hall.
Stevens, on this rare time away from Darlington Hall, is a curiosity to others, like a museum piece.
Ishiguro with elegance depicts subtle and nuanced portrait of Stevens, an aging butler at English mansion Darlington Hall, who mistook blind obedience for loyalty and whom good manners filled in for common sense and feelings.
It’s a stylish story of a man whom false idea of dignity led to the loss of private life and by the way to participate in profascist conspiracy.
It’s a psychological study of a man who through whole life was dreaming his Lord's dream about greatness and at last is trying to examine his own life.
And it’s a bitter account.So when Stevens says about Lord Darlington I trusted in his lordship's wisdom...I can't even say I made my own mistakes...
