https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34684622-leonardo-da-vinci
In fact, there are insights, such as one about how blood flows through the heart, that were so far ahead of their time that researchers finally verified them only a few decades ago.Given my fascination with Leonardo, I was eager to read Leonardo da Vinci, Walter Isaacson’s new biography.
If you liked Walter’s major biographies of Steve Jobs and Albert Einstein, you’ll probably appreciate this one.More than any other Leonardo book I’ve read, this one helps you see him as a complete human being and understand just how special he was.
Leonardo got free time to wander, look at nature, and start creating notebooks full of observations and ideas.
‘Genius hits a target no one else can see.’”Whenever I read anything about Leonardo or gaze upon his paintings/drawings, I feel that same pang felt by Antonio Salieri whenever he would read that latest music composed by Mozart.
Despite being unfinished, these paintings rocked the art world, and students flocked to see them.We have about 7,200 pages of Da Vinci’s notebooks, about a quarter of what he wrote.
Peter Paul Rubens reimagining of what Leonardo’s Battle of Anghiari would have looked like.I’ve read other books by Isaacson so I knew that the genius of Leonardo da Vinci was safe in the hands of the writer who has specialized in writing about some of the greatest minds in history.
Marvelous! Isaacson's comprehensive biography is written to delight, to inform, and to inspire curiosity. Video review to come in my March Wrap Up.
Perfect for the curious mind and those who want a better understanding of art, history and symbolism without the dramatic scandal of a certain Robert Langdon.Leonardo da Vinci was surely one of the most animated artists of his time, if not in history.
Some of these anatomy explorations surely led to inventions that made their way into da Vinci’s journals and also permitted some of the intricate detail found in numerous pieces of art, namely one of his most popular, the Vitruvian Man, where da Vinci showed extensive understanding of length proportions of the ‘perfect’ subject.
A listener is given clear instructions stating  where exactly to look and what you will there observe.
You could say that rather than listening you are looking at a flow of pictures while someone is giving you a well thought out guided tour of Leonardo da Vinci’s artworks, his notebooks and models of his imaginative creations.
I actually believe that the audio version may in fact be better than the written book in that you can magnify the pictures and you can listen while you look!Alfred Molina reads the audiobook clearly and at an appropriate tempo.
"Леонардо да Винчи" - биография от Уолтър Айзаксън (ревю на български след текста на английски)One of the best books I read in 2018 was a biography.
Actually after reading the biography written by Isaacson, I was left with the impression that Leonardo was not a genius.
What really impressed me is the art he created, combining knowledge from all these disciplines.I'm not a man of art, and that's why I find it a great deal that a book made me understand art in a new way and look differently on Renaissance paintings.---Една от най-хубавите книги, които съм прочел през 2018 г.
Honestly, I preferred Serge Bramly's 1991 Da Vinci biography to this one by Isaacson.
I read (and reviewed here on GR) his biographies of Einstein and Ben Franklin, and found them both really good.
In the present work, the author is way too present in my opinion and pitches his Steve Jobs biography on nearly every other page.
Yes, I did and I did appreciate the insight into the major works and the theories about some of the lost or disputed ones as well.
However, I felt the presence of Isaacson more than that of Da Vinci and would have preferred the latter over the former.
“he never finished any of the works he began because, so sublime was his idea of art, he saw faults even in the things that to others seemed miracles.” ― Walter Isaacson, Leonardo da Vinci This was an interesting biography, and an interesting approach, but it just wasn't great.
I even liked Isaacson's approach of using Leonardo's notebooks as the backbone of this book.
The notebooks, with their art, doodles, ramblings, and jumps, are hard to translate into a Costco-selling bestseller.To be fair to Isaacson, I did just finish, last year, Caro's four (so far) volume series on LBJ.
Where Leonardo especially excelled, was in his understanding of fluid dynamics, and his realistic art portrayals of fluid flow.I had not realized that Leonardo spent a good part of a year in the company of Cesare Borgia and Machiavelli.
Leonardo seemed all too happy to comply with Borgia's wishes, as he thought of himself, first and foremost, as an inventor of military innovations.I highly recommend this book.
While Leonardo did have a few foibles, Isaacson shows how he excelled in so many aspects of life, and gains an understanding of his motivations, ambitions, and passions.I listened to the audiobook edition of this book, narrated by Alfred Molina.
Apparently, Isaacson cannot be blamed for the lack of research as he constantly quotes Martin Kemp, Kenneth Clark, Carmen Bambach, Luke Syson, Vasari, early Leonardo biographers and many others (look at the Notes section of this book and you’d be impressed), and often refers to the facts that cannot be easily found on Wikipedia (they can be easily found in better written books on Leonardo and his art, but never mind).
Actually, the question arose while I was reading this book, if telling the story of Leonardo was Isaacson’s original intention at all or what he did want to do was to write a self-help book, dissecting Leonardo’s genius and mercilessly dragging him into the 21st century (the thing that Kenneth Clark thought should be avoided by all means).
If you like a little psychology with your history, this is a book for you! It gives you a wonderful insight into the mind of one of the most fascinating men in human history. Da Vinci was quite the character. A bit enigmatic and mercurial. It was a delight learning more about his personality through this book.
Both Vasari and Kenneth Clark placed Leonardo on a god-like pedestal, untouched by any other human in history and in possession of a truly divine mind.
Interdisciplinarity was something of Leonardo's forte, melding art and science together in his notebooks and canvases, and Isaacson reflects this in his biography, creating a book which covers a vast amount of topics.Having a degree in art history, I was interested to see how Isaacson would tackle Leonardo.
Therefore it was actually quite refreshing to read about Leonardo's works in a language resembling English.However, Isaacson is not afraid to put his opinion across on the meanings on some of Leonardo's most complex mysteries.
his paintings are mathematical and he was gay.Did I mention that this book is very long???
This book is full of insane details...pages and pages and pages of insane details.This book is very long.At times I felt like screaming TMI!Did I mention that this book is EXTREMELY long???
I think back to Bill Clinton's memoir "My Life" where I just felt like screaming GET TO THE POINT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Because ...
this book is wowza long.I just could not finish it ...
This book is very long.
This is an engrossing, well-paced biography that is a pleasure to read. I'm left with a deep and motivating admiration of many facets of Leonardo's character, especially his eager mind, attention to detail, thinking from first principles, his use extensive use of physical notebooks, and, most intriguingly, his use of art as a thinking tool. It's fascinating to get a glimpse of someone so far ahead of his time, and it's fun to think about what he would make of today.

Walter Isaacson’s Leonardo da Vinci is one of the best books I have read in a very long time.
Information is presented in a logical way, as well; in some biographies and history books I’ve read in the past, time is not presented in chronological order (I’m referring specifically to Mary Beard’s SPQR with that comment).
But Isaacson organizes his narrative so that in the introduction, he literally introduces us to all the most basic facts about da Vinci that the reader will need to know throughout the biography; then, he alternatively presents to the reader da Vinci’s private life, public works, private drawings and ambitions, and public relationships with his Renaissance artist contemporaries.
Same situation here...but I must warn you....Leonardo was a very complicated man....a genius in his art....kept copious notes about everything he thought, felt, and dreamed about....he was a scientist,way ahead of his time,and he used science in his art, and mathematics in his paintings.
Walter included all the vast details, because that's the type of person Leonardo was.....and while reading this book his painting fetched a $450 million dollar price, a record in the art world.....
I LOVED HEARING everything about this important man in the arts,sciences,and mathematics world.
Truly an amazing individual.If you think you are ready to read about this vastly complicated, and eccentrically interesting man....enjoy!
"Obstacles cannot crush me.
Every obstacle yields to stern resolve.
He who is fixed to a star does not change his mind."  --Leonardo da VinciThe reviews of this book are extensive and overwhelmingly positive, so I would add only a few points.
Also, while exceptionally well written and researched, be prepared for a lengthy read - more than I generally am up for.
I recently read a much shorter book on Da Vinci by Kathleen Krull (high school level) which I believe covered many if not most of the points raised by Isaacson.
Walter Isaacson has delivered an immensely readable, detailed and thoughtful biography on Leonardo DaVinci.
With many pictures and sketches from DaVinci, the reader is really able to experience the richness of DaVinci’s talent as his extraordinary life story is told.
And a story this is, as while Isaacson has done a tremendous amount of study from many different sources, this doesn’t read like an academic study.
The book is always engaging, employing humour and getting to the heart of DaVinci as a person.
Highly recommended, Leonardo DaVinci is a great book, well written and beautifully printed on high quality paper which enhances the entire experience.
Another great biography by Walter Isaacson. I must say I knew very little about Leonardo da Vinci prior to reading to this book and just seen him as an artist who dabbled in a few other things. But now, after reading this da Vinci is better described as a scientist who painted as a hobby and to pay the bills. His curiosity was both astounding and dangerous, for he hardly ever finished anything. What we got is glorious and what we could have had is unknowable.
I love Walter Isaacsons biographies, they are always engaging, never dry, and I learn so much while being thoroughly entertained because it reads more like a novel many times rather than a dry non-fiction feel to it.Leonardo is obviously one of the most world renown artists ever born, but there’s so much I didn’t know about him.What I loved most was learning about his personality, which I knew nothing about.
Salai showed up as a model for many, many paintings and sketches, and his likeness was used countless times.Overall, this was an amazing biography and I can’t wait to see what Isaacson does next.
"Leonardo went from seeking knowledge that could be of practical use and began seeking knowledge for its own sake, out of pure curiosity and joy"A magnificent and fascinating read of the life and times of one of the most brilliant human beings that ever lived.
Often times he left one project unfinished and moved on to something else.He was a man of science and art and his passions ranged from anatomy, the heart, engineering, flying machines, weaponry, geology, fossils, ...
After a few years that curiosity seems to lessen as do the questions.
The reason Leonardo has appealed to me is because I’m immensely charmed by the idea of a Renaissance Man, men who make no distinction between science and art, men who believe that the “infinite works of nature” are woven together in a unity filled with marvelous patterns. That’s why I LOVE Benjamin Franklin too and see him as a role model for my life, as he was a Leonardo of his era, and while he had no formal education,he taught himself to become an imaginative polymath, a scientist, inventor, diplomat, writer, and business strategist.
Simply—brilliant.
I don’t have a lot to say about this [edit: coming back after my draft, I see I was mistaken], but in keeping with my New Year’s resolution to put down into words something about each book I read this year, here are my rambling thoughts.First off, I heeded Chrissie’s advice, "To get the most out of the audiobook one should sit by a computer and look at the pictures as one listens." well, partial advice anyway.
It was his observational skills that helped him understand perspective and that perspective that helped bring his paintings to life--well, also dissecting bodies to understand musculature.
I have read two of Isaacson's previous biographies (Steve Jobs and Albert Einstein).
In the case of Leonardo da Vinci, Isaacson was unsuccessful in my opinon of bringing Da Vinci to life probably due to a lack of primary source material on the subject.
In this book, Isaacson seems to try to compensate for the lack of materials by writing an art history book which is so focused on the artist's work that the story of the man himself (of what little can be known) is obscured by distracting and overly glowing details -- that is, it felt extremely padded.
Ползва за основа дневниците на майстора – хиляди страници с рисунки, чертежи и скици, невероятни списъци със задачи, откъслечни мисли, записки за направени разходи, списъци за пазаруване, изумителни наблюдения на природата и безкрайни идеи за трактати, които така и не виждат бял свят.Затова и всеки опит да споделиш накратко впечатленията си от „Леонардо да Винчи“ на Уолтър Айзъксън прилича на лист от дневниците на самия Леонардо – смесица от образи, впечатления и вдъхновение.
Леонардо да Винчи – ученият, художникът, търсачът на знания: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/l...Разбира се, няма да седна да ви преразказвам книгата, всеки може да се запознае с живота и делото на Леонардо – дали бегло и повърхностно чрез Уикипедия, дали по-задълбочено чрез тази биография, която нямаше как да не привлече силно внимание сред страхотната работа, която Уолтър Айзъксън свърши, описвайки две други знакови личности, вече от XX век – Айнщайн и Стив Джобс.
Например познатите на всеки чертежи на военни машини според Айзъксън не са нищо повече от играчки за дворцови тържества, той не смята, че Да Винчи някога реално е планирал да бъдат използвани наистина – и все пак те са предтечи на реални технологии, част от нашата епоха.Софтпресhttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/l...
4.5 stars
Perhaps Isaacson could benefit from Leonardo da Vinci's understanding that all things are connected, and nothing is singular in its happening?In my opinion, no biography of Leonardo will be sufficient until someone resolves to integrate the character of Leonardo da Vinci with the time in which he lived in, understanding and exploring the society of 15th/16th Century Italy, as well as losing the notion of 'genius' in which Leonardo is explicitly linked to throughout this biography and others.
