https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2054761.The_Snowball
That value in this book instead was to get a window on the mind, life and thinking of the most financially successful person of our time.For years I have had my question prepared for Buffett at the Berkshire Hathaway annual meeting, but I have yet to awaken early enough to secure a place in line.
I am willing to accept this as I set my goals and expectations for my business and all other things important to me.Snowball is a wonderful guide to what it would really take to model the success of Warren Buffett.
After finished reading almost 800 pages book on biography of Warren Buffett most pressing question I have now is WHO THE HELL IS CHARLIE MUNGER?!?!!
The few quotes of Charlie Munger in the book is enough to justify the poor writings elsewhere.
Once asked about technology stocks in late 1990s Munger once said "Even if you mixed raisins with turds, it's still turds." Munger once call Efficient Market Hypnosis as bullshits invented by academia.
Berkshire Hathaway, before it became a household name was originally a textile company owned by Buffett.
The textile company was doing poorly ever since Buffett purchased it.
This was a disappointing book.At 834 pages plus notes and index there were a lot of words,but at least 80% were just gossip about who had a problem with drinking, drugs, hurt feelings etc etc etc.(NOTE: Just read Buffett, The making of an American capitalist,That book is 1000 times better: 22 March 2012) The trivia even included who their babysitter married!!!
A few years later Forbes admitted they bowdlerized his remark,he really said: "I feel like an oversexed man in a whorehouse" Small point, but for 834 pages and many years spent writing this book,the author didn't research the early writings about the man very well.
Buffett is extremely good at making money - and has a rather impressive idea about what to do with it (keep investing, give it all away to someone who is good at giving away money, such as Bill Gates.)The biography is an impressive work in itself.
I would have loved to see her write a biography on Bill Gates with the same level of business detail, though we will probably have to wait another decade or so for that to happen.Recommended as a backgrounder on the financial crisis as well - it is up to date as of April 2008, which is rather impressive in itself.
Anal.You could surely whack half or more of the 100 pages of footnotes, leaving 150 pages out of more than 800 to easily be cut.It's overwritten in another way.Schroeder never claims she's trying to imitate the personality of Buffett in her writing style, as defenders of her claim here.
"There's no there there" in this book, other than the Chinese water torture of nearly 900 pages of draggy writing, interspersed with defensiveness of Saint Warren of Omaha.===And, that's the primary part of the "more" from the title of my review.This is NOT a neutral biography.
Fan-freaking-tastic. I knew Warren Buffett was fascinating but I didn't know he was THAT fascinating. I spent a month reading this 900 page tome and the entire month I tortured my boyfriend with, "Ermergerd, did you know Warren Buffett this? Warren Buffett this?" So well-written and engaging. I'd let Alice Schroeder write my biography any day. She has a way of taking the most mundane life details and making them engaging, witty, and meaningful. So enjoyed this. Warren Buffett for President!
If you want to read this book to get some tips to become billionaire, or some stock tips, then this might not be the right book.
The snowball doesn't give any tips or tricks; it just presents the incidents in Warren's life and how he reacted to them.
Book presents Warren's thought process by introducing concept like Inner scorecard, bathtub memory, value of reputation.
Anyone would have recommended a book on Warren Buffett so am not doing you a favor by recommending this.
And read it twice.
Enjoy reading!!
Clearly worth reading if you are a Warren groupie (which I am)Maybe worth reading if you aren't?Some have faulted the book for not being stronger in the secrets of his investment success.
I wouldn't read a book about Tiger Woods and be upset that I didn't have a great golf swing at the end; why would anyone have a similar complaint about a book about Warrent Buffet?
It didn't make me like Warren more (clearly that wasn't the point), but it was interesting nonetheless to learn a little more about what makes him tick, and I think the book was successful in that.
I want to live a good life well.Enter Warren Buffett, famous for still living in the same $31,500 house he bought sixty years ago.
The result was that I learned more than I ever wanted to know about Warren Buffett and was introduced to a few really smart financial ideas that never would have occurred to me before.
I'll start with the latter.Since he was a kid working his paper route, Buffett learned to treat every dollar like it was ten dollars.
Not to be a millionaire, mind you, but to have enough fuck-you money to not have to work a job I'm unhappy with in ten years.But let's talk about Buffett the man.
Mr. Buffett is simply a man, yes, a man with a fairly brilliant mind, but one with limits.
That great mind is focused and while it can be said to be brilliant at certain things - mostly analytical and business oriented - this is also a man/mind that has it's weaknesses and faults - I think he would readily admit that in some areas he is in fact deficient.
I can take certain lessons from him however, one of which is that we can all accomplish great things if we are determined to do so and we play to our own strengths.
I rarely give up on books but I gave up on this one after about 100 pages. After 100 pages we are still sorting through Warren's paper routes and stamp collections. I am interested in Warren Buffet, but do we really need over 800 pages in this biography? There are biographies of Winston Churchill that are shorter. I would say this book is only for people that are really, really interested in Buffet. Good luck.
While it depicted his personal life and his character well, it could have done a better job with his investment philosophy.
Roger Lowenstein's earlier biography was better, in this regard.Buffett is a complex character, as Schroeder portrays him.
Through shrewd investments in companies like See's Candies, GEICO, Coca Cola and Gillette, he built enormous wealth for himself and his shareholders.
But he is the greatest in the world in his own limited sphere.In sum, this is a good biography, but it's too long and should do more to explain Buffett's investing ideas.
Lose a shred of reputation for the firm and I will be ruthless." "We are going to do 'first-class business in a first-class way.'He wanted to run things by what he called the front-page test: "I want employees to ask themselves whether they are willing to have any contemplated act appear the next day on the front page of their local paper to be read by their spouses, children and friends, with the reporting done by an informed and critical reporter.""Very few people should be active investors.
Good attempt at a great biography, very worthwhile on audiobook, reading it is likely to get most readers distracted and unable to complete.Parts of the story are very well done with crisp insights supported with good logic and solid story narratives.
Other parts become way too bogged down in the minutiae of details of deal after deal after deal over multiple decades.
So, the parts at the beginning and the end are most helpful in understanding how Buffett operates and used his astounding memory and fascination with numbers to generate the wealth he made, as well as some of the disappointments.
I started on a Thursday, and almost every minute of my spare time where my mind was not engaged at work or with family was spent on listening to this book, and I completed on a Sunday morning.Overall, WB's personality was complex.
However, the book may be too long (Audiobook: 40 hours, my ebook: 832 pages, 2nd edition: 930 pages) for casual reader without interest in the WB.
It seems I have the first edition of the ebook but the audiobook was read from the second or third edition of the book.
Even more detail on personal relationships – a real dissection of who he is and how he came to be what he is.Goes into Howie in some detail – how he really wanted to be a farmer, his migration to Decatur, what his functions were at ADM, etc.
He was a simple guy who loved hamburgers and drove a 7 year old Cadillac, would bunk in with friends in Washington to save a few bucks, his discomfort in attending large dinner functions where he would often not eat the food – seated between famous people.
He's got lots of quirks, a sex life that perplexes everyone, and the largest charitable record in history.The book was lacking in good business advice, and that which it does have it spills in the second of many many chapters.
In fact, it reads like a very long newspaper article about him and his doings.
Tracey Kidder, for example, brings the people in his books into your life, makes them real, shows their humanity, and makes you reconsider them, instead of, as Schroeder has done, consider them a second time.Luckily, the story massively exceeds its teller and I still liked it.
“A new group of recently minted technology executives, filled with an unusual swagger, introduced themselves to people who had never heard of them a year before.”It is said that Buffett was as a closing speaker of the year.It talked about the technology revolutionary, and its influence on business investors.“This was not the first time that world-changing new technologies had come along and shaken up the stock market.
I enjoy bios but if I want to read a person's bio I'll pick up their book.Another thing that bothered me about Schroeder's way of writing was right in the middle of telling a story she would digress into a whole new idea and then I'm left wondering about something.When I first started reading this book I was writing down lots of people to check out and subjects to read about.
Then about 1/3 through it I said I don't really want to do that.About 3/4 way through the book Buffett becomes an Icon.
Having read more finance heavy value investing books like Buffettology and Warren Buffett Way, I was expecting a more detailed and numbers driven account of Buffett's life.
However, this book covers his life from personal and layperson perspective which I found refreshing.
The book gives a great portrait of what drives Warren Buffett and what his personality is like.
I came away from book with an humanized view of a man I once worshiped, It helped put in perspective of the limitations of money and what is can do to make yourself happy.
I think there is a lot unsaid since Buffett is the Oracle of Omaha and very much alive, I learned so much about his unique business approach and strategies.
It seems that Buffett's insistence on forging his own way was contagious to his family and friends--his children and the many women whom he needed in his life.
Lastly, it was, on a personal level, about how a person, very imperfect, changed during his life and how his intrinsic needs for attention, love and reputation influenced all of his decisions.
I have always disliked Warren Buffutt because of his political views.
It seems very easy and convenient to be in favor of all sorts of wealth redistribution when you have so much wealth that it will make absolutely no difference to you.
While I still disagree with what he stands for politically, I enjoyed the book immensely.
It is a rare non-fiction book that keeps you up late on multiple nights.
I am giving it 5 stars because it has changed the way I think about making money.
That is saying a lot given the amount of time I have spent thinking about that topic.
Surprisingly, the excessive trivialities centre around Buffett's and his extended family's lives rather than overly detailed discussion of his business deals.Hierology is probably the wrong word, but you do get a sense that the author idolises Buffett.
I would have preferred a more impartial record of the man's life to date.This is a shame.
I think Buffett's story is worthy of a better biography.P.S. I was surprised to see how limited Buffett's life experience was outside of business until very late in his life.
In many ways this is sad portrait of a man who has dedicated his life to the pursuit of capital.
This probably is a very good book -- the author is a superb writer -- but it didn't overcome my natural aversion to lengthy, overly detailed biographies such as this.
Buffett is, of course, a fascinating subject, the richest man in the world but one who is not greedy, does not wallow in conspicuous consumerism, and is inherently modest.
But I found myself skimming over much of the minutiae and fixating on some of the more compelling moments (and there are many, not just in his financial exploits but also his relationship with his wife Susie and his children).
While I was left a a few questions of a more personal nature about Warren Buffet in relation to his family and friends, this was still a fascinating book. It doesn't cover details about his decision making process (there are other books that do that). I think that even if you aren't interested in business and finance this is a book to read to get an understanding of who Buffett is and the enormous impact he has had on business.
This is way more information than I can ever really imagine wanting about anyone I'm not married to. While it scratched my itch of "knowing more about Warren Buffett's life and perspective on finances" I didn't need point-by-point examinations of each of his early childhood friendships. Interesting but depressing background about his relationships with his parents but Freudian analysis is only interesting up to a point...
An incredibly thorough account of Buffett's life to date. While the author clearly admires Buffett, she isn't above sharing his shortfalls, which lends to a more complete take on him that is seen in the daily media. Particularly enlightening is how she ties his upbringing into his choices and views later in life, including the turnaround at Solomon and his handling of the financial crisis. A must read for someone curious about one of the most success businessman in modern history.
hard to get through read half of it, it's gigantic and got tired of it. It's all facts and not much about his thought process or how he makes decisions so not exactly what I was hoping for. Generally more interesting than it should be though for the writing style.
A deep insight into the life and mind of one of the most revered investors of our time. His timeless principles have demonstrated that value investing will always stand the test of time. Awesome book.
The story of how pinball machines and counterfeit salad oil helped build one of the great modern fortunes is fascinating, but there is a reason people generally aren't clamoring to read 976 page books by former CPA's. The writing is dull and repetitive, the pacing slows to a crawl by the end.
