https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129561.A_Test_of_Wills
In terms of book boyfriends, the main character in this series, Ian Rutledge is my number one.
I love Ian Rutledge that much.
I have read every single book in this very long series.
On a marry-fuck-kill scale, Ian Rutledge is a solid marry.
I want to love him.
He is a wounded warrior, a former soldier, more noble in character than any I have read.
I want to make a home with him.
I want to spend evenings together with him in our comfortable little home in the English countryside.
I want to ease his suffering.
Please meet my book boyfriend sometimes, if you get the chance.
We have to be ashamed to not want to die.It is 1919 and Inspector Ian Rutledge has returned from the trenches of France to resume his duties at Scotland Yard. Before the war he had a knack, a way of seeing beyond what people were willing to tell him. It is described at one point as putting his fingers on the pulse of a dead man and bringing him back to life. The war has left Rutledge shattered. His fiance has broken off their engagement. She is terrified of the man England has sent back to her.
To make matters worse he has a boss, Bowles, that wishes Rutledge had died in the war, and is intent on not only seeing him removed from Scotland Yard, but broken as well.
Little does Bowles know how little of a push that would take.Rutledge is dispatched to Warwickshire to investigate the bloody murder of Colonel Harris.
We follow along with Rutledge as he tries to make sense of a small town murder where information is scarce and what people do know they don't want to share with an outsider from London.
That disturbs Ian Rutledge who starts to suspect that someone at Scotland Yard knows about is affliction and that he was given this case so that he would fail.This is the kind of book that takes awhile to get into.
And, it doesn't make it better that he is hearing the voice of Hamish in his head.The case was interesting, albeit the start of the book was a bit slow as much of the time, in the beginning, is spent on getting to know all the involved characters, their relationship with the murdered man.
This is my first dip into the Inspector Ian Rutledge series and what a interesting character the writers have created.
The author, Charles Todd, is actually a mother and son writing team.
They have made it work.
Inspector Ian Rutledge is a damaged man, who barely survived World War 1, he is tragically beyond repair due to shell-shock and guilt.
Yet Scotland Yard decides to send him to a small village to uncover a murder.
The English village is also shell-shocked from the war, each person is suffering some kind of loss.
Set in 1919 just after the First World War, this story was about the murder of a respected Colonel and about Scotland Yard investigator Ian Rutledge who is suffering from shell-shock.
This murder is Rutledge's first case since returning to Scotland Yard; in addition to Hamish's voice in his head, he’s worried about his ability to solve the case.I found this book to be very bland.
It was the characters and their emotions that carried the story.I have no strong desire to read the next book, but I am curious about what the authors have planned for Rutledge's future.
But the plot ends up hinging on not one, not two, but four different characters each suffering from PTSD, each with entirely unrelated, unrealistic, but completely plot-driving symptoms.
The overall plot is very carefully constructed to have multiple parallels to Rutledge's own situation, so that his personal damage makes the case that much harder.
Despite the personal nature of the case, though, Rutledge has no discernable character arc.
There's enough potential here, though, that I'd be willing to give the series one more try to see if the author works out some of the kinks as he gets more experienced.
Right from the beginning you see that Scotland Yard Inspector Ian Rutledge is not in a good place in more ways than one.
He is sent to deal with a sensitive case (out of spite and jealousy) with the hope he messes it up.You get to know Rutledge bit by bit throughout the book.
The Inspector does his best to hide the fact he is one of 'those'.
I've read before how they treated shell-shocked solders back then.
I am definitely going to read the rest of the series.As for the mystery, the book takes its time to start properly.
I finally got to reading an Ian Rutledge novel.
I really like Todd's other series starring Bess Crawford.
So, I finally got around to trying this one.
Am I glad I did.Now, I have to say any book set in this era is going to get my attention.
I love books set just before, during, and just after WW I.
But this book goes further than just having the Great War as a backdrop.
It's a lovely addition to your basic English country murder mystery.
Can't wait to read the next in the series.
In this first book in the Inspector Ian Rutledge series, the hero has survived the horror of fighting on the Front against the Kaiser's forces in WW I, and now back in England he must deal with the haunting voice of a Scotsman he was forced to have killed for treason for refusing to fight on during a particularly spirit-numbing battle over in France.
Was it the decorated war hero, the village radical, the smarmy vicar?
This tale, set in that intriguing period between the two World Wars, as British society went through some profound transitions, has a great ending I didn't see coming, and now I'm hooked into the series.
Okay. The thing setting it apart from other mysteries is the shell-shock dead comrade hallucination going in Inspector Ian's head, but that seems phony and so it irritated me more than anything else and I won't be reading more in the series. Plus the resolution of this mystery is pretty far fetched. After writing the above, I went back and looked at when this was written: 1997. That figures. It just doesn't feel authentic to post WWI. Downton Abbey feels more authentic than this.
3,5 stars. The book is in a slower pace than we are used to these days, so I had to adapt my 21st century eyes. It's an oldfashioned whodunnit with Ian Rutledge as a WW I veteran who needs to get used to ordinary life after the war. A good description of the English atmosphere and countryside. I liked the book enough to pick up the next one some time from now.
In this first in a series, A Test of Wills (1996), it is immediately post World War I and Rutledge has returned to his pre-war job as a detective at Scotland Yard.
It is a classic case of post traumatic stress disorder, then called shell shock.Hamish MacLeod is not visible to Rutledge.
Hamish occasionally observes subtleties and correlations that help Rutledge to solve the murders.In this first book Rutledge's much-disliked (and with good reason) boss at Scotland yard suspects something is not right with the detective and sends him off to Warwickshire to solve the murder the purportedly popular Col Charles Harris.
Rating: 3.9* of fiveNot quite a four-star read because the solution to the mystery wasn't exactly fair.Still and all, the character of Ian Rutledge, shell-shocked veteran of The Great War, is wonderfully realized.
I thought that was gutsy of Todd...making the crazy guy the sleuth and the manifestation of crazy the strong character that he is.
It was a good solution and it was nicely thought out, but it wasn't part of the rest of the book, and I think that's not fair.Still, I am gaffed in the gills.
Rutledge, like Wimsey, suffers from shell-shock: the term coined in World War I to describe what is now called combat stress reaction and which is also encompassed by the condition known as post-traumatic stress disorder or PTSD.
(See, for example,The Unpleasantness at the Bellona Club)It may be that the combined Todds know soldiers who suffer from PTSD and I have no doubt that they did their World War I research well.
Hamish is partly the voice of Rutledge's conscience, partly a manifestation of his sub-conscious, partly a symptom of his psychosis, partly … well, I’m not exactly sure what.
”’Ye’ll no’ triumph over me!,’ Hamish said. ‘I’m a scar on your bluidy soul.’‘That may be. But we’ll soon find out what we’re both made of.’ Synopsis: Little town, it’s a quiet villageEvery day, like the one beforeLittle town, full of little peopleWaking up to say….HE’S DEAD! HE’S DEAD! MY GOD, THE COLONEL’S DEAD!!! Pros: Ian Rutledge, My Goddamn Hero: Ian Rutledge is a detective inspector and former solider former WWI with an impeccable record and a big secret: he’s suffering from a severe cas
I’ve found in crafting characters that have their demons, physical or mental, sometimes authors give them so many unlikable qualities that it makes it impossible to root for them, as if their moral compass has gone out the window along with their mind.
The psychotic voice inside of Rutledge’s head making his life a miserable hell?It probably has nothing to do with the fact that every time Hamish was in a scene, I pictured a blonde Sam Heughan taunting Rutledge from the backseat of his car.
True, Inspector Rutledge is a fascinating character and the device of putting the voice of Hamish in his head, as a result of shell-shock, is compelling.
As he was one of the few interesting characters in the book, I wanted to hear what he was saying.Other than Rutledge and Hamish, there were few interesting characters, excepting perhaps Catherine Tarrant, the successful woman painter, and Dr. Warren's unnamed housekeeper and a shell-shocked soldier who has returned to the village (although neither of the latter two characters is developed at all).
Very slow, painfully so. Not a total loss, but there are many more captivating books out there.
This was a very good book. The tussle between the hero and the main female character was epic, there's no other word for it. Unlike classic mysteries, the climax and the reveal are not the highlight of this book. It's the journey, the exposition of Mavers as the main suspect, the victim's past life, and Inspector Rutledge's private demons that makes the book worth following.
A good historical mystery. Recommended.For a further review: http://susannag.booklikes.com/post/74... .
Sad. The problem is it's so darn boring.Set just after WWI, small English village, and Detective Ian Rutledge is called in to investigate the murder of Colonel Harris.
The locals want to believe the local drunk - or maybe local crazy guy - killed the colonel, and very little is going to budge them from this opinion.
Rutledge also saw service in WWI and if one more character was going to say, 'And of course, if you went to war, you'd understand...'Why do characters make such blanket assumptions?
FWFTB: colonel, murdered, war-hero, affair, sanity.
It is essentially a village mystery ala Midsomer Murders/Cabot Cove but with an unusual detective (he has a 'voice' in his head which is remarkably perceptive and knowledgeable).
There is not much lightness in this book at all and for that reason, I won't be working through the follow on novels.
FCN: Ian Rutledge (our troubled and heartsore detective), Lettice Wood (sadly, by name and by nature - a real weak female 'lead), Mr Carfield (the vicar who wanted to be an actor), Hamish (unseen but not unheard), Bert Mavers (the village idiot with a sad past).
Now he's home, back at work, and given his first case after the war, the murder of a highly respected man.
The top suspect is another highly respected man and high profile war hero, and the professional enemy who gave the case to Rutledge is hoping that he will either accuse the war hero and be dismissed for arresting the unpopular man, or have another breakdown and be dismissed.
Worse, everyone in the small village where the crime took place is trying to steer Rutledge away from the well-liked war hero to the town malcontent.I really liked this writing pair's Bess Crawford mysteries, and since I'm running out of those, I thought to try their longer Rutledge series.
First, this is only a slight variation on what I always call the English Garden Mystery.
The largest variation being the main character not being an amateur but a Scotland Yard detective.
There is another difference, but it is not really significant to the plot and doesn't really seem to have any purpose.Second, the book is littered with enough red herrings to feed the entire country of Norway, and none of which lead to the solution to the mystery.
As with Bayard's THE PALE BLUE EYE, the solution comes almost entirely out of left field (at least with PALE BLUE EYE, the plot was original enough to be entertaining).
Ian Rutledge is a veteran of WWI, suffering from shell shock even as he returns to his work at Scotland Yard.
Inspector Rutledge is haunted by scenes from the war, and especially by the voice of a fellow soldier.
Despite his inner struggles, Rutledge strives to become once again the superior detective, known for his skill in solving crime.
Working to catch a murderer in a small village, Rutledge struggles to control his inner turmoil while trying to focus on this murder and all the people involved.
This was a great introductory novel to the series, and I plan to continue on.
Todd has created a fascinating character in Scotland Yard Inspector Ian Rutledge, and an even more interesting character named Hamish MacLeod who lives in Rutledge's head, alternately helping and hindering his real life and his investigations. Rutledge is recently returned from the battlefields of France (WWI) where Hamish died (I won't say how, but it is startling when you learn). There are several books in the series, all very satisfying mysteries.
I enjoyed this but found the mystery a little on the weak side. I'd have preferred the Inspector to do more sleuthing rather than just being in the right place at the right time. Still, I love the character development. Inspector Rutledge is damaged goods, but thoughtful and quietly sympathetic. The voice of Hamish is an effective narrative tool, and I think the author(s) used it well to add foreshadowing, entertainment, and another layer of complexity to the Inspector.
Enjoyed it a lot, all in all. I was not 100% convinced of the resolution - although, yes, the tiny little clue-bits were there, I suppose, but even so - but I enjoyed the writing and Ian Rutledge makes for a fascinating, excellent hero.If I had any complaints other than the resolution / how the murder was solved, I'd say "it was a bit too slow" but since I generally don't mind slow pacing, I think it's just my current mood, really.Definitely a series to read more of at some point.
Ian Rutledge is a detective called in by Scotland Yard to investigate the murder of a Colonel where the main suspect is a decorated war hero and friend of the Royal Family. If this goes wrong, he will be the scapegoat. Suffering 'Shell Shock' from the war, he has to prove his abilities to himself as well. And the case, certainly is complicated. Very well written and engaging historical story
Murder-mysteries are my weakness and I’m so glad I picked up this first book in the series.
Set just after the end of WWI, Inspector Ian Rutledge has been sent to a small village to investigate the murder of a retired Army Colonel.
There’s so much depth and potential with his character that I can’t wait to see where the next books take him.
That is really brought home in this story in the way that certain characters are celebrated while others are demeaned because of how the war affected them.
I’m looking forward to more of this series and more Inspector Rutledge.
When a former colonel is mysteriously killed in a Warwickshire village, Rutledge is called in from Scotland Yard to investigate, but he isn't sure if his detective talents will have deserted him.Unfortunately, though, I found the novel very slow and repetitive and didn't warm to the style of writing.
There are some Americanisms, in particular "gotten" and "drapes" for curtains (constantly repeated, since the authors seem to describe the décor of every room in detail!), but my main problem was that I just couldn't believe in or sympathise with any of the characters, including Rutledge.
I do wonder if later books by the same pair of authors are better than this one, though, as the series has such a good reputation.
