https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34433755-girls-of-paper-and-fire
[Sappho’s voice] Sweet mother, I cannot weave, slender Aphrodite has overcome me with longing for a secret warrior-assassin-goddess and her rebel girlfriend!! So, what's this book about? In Ikhara, the world our protagonist Lei inhabits, there are three castes: Moon, the reigning caste that is entirely demon; Paper, the downtrodden caste that is wholly human and Steel, who are endowed with both demon and human elements. Every year, the Moon caste’s king selects eight Paper Girls as his concubine
And over the course of this book, we see these women grow even further into deep, multi-dimensional characters who were not beholden to the story of the men around them, but rather had their own agency on full display.Girl of Paper and Fire is the story of survivors of sexual violence who are reclaiming their own narrative and learning that they’re not strong in spite of anything but powerful because of everything.
We might be Paper Girls, easily torn and written upon. The very title we’re given suggests that we are blank, waiting to be filled. But what the Demon King and his court do not understand is that paper is flammable.And there is a fire catching among us. This was SO MUCH MORE than I expected.  Girls of Paper and Fire is a lush fantasy story that goes to some extremely dark places. The light amid this darkness is the central f/f romance that evolves gradually and naturally, never overtaking the p
Girls of Paper and Fire is a lush fantasy story that goes to some extremely dark places.
Not just a palace really, but a city—a labyrinth of streets, courtyards, and gardens, like the veins and arteries flowing through a giant creature with the King nestled at its core, its own living, beating heart.
In this book, girls from the Paper caste (the lowest caste and fully-human) are stolen away by the royal soldiers to become the King's consorts.
The main one being the central romance between Lei and Wren, which even a cold-hearted cynic like me was able to fall in love with.And, of course, behind it all a bigger political story is taking place.
THIS RELEASED TODAY!!  We might be Paper Girls, easily torn and written upon. The very title we're given suggests that we are blank, waiting to be filled. But what the Demon King and his court do not understand is that paper is flammable.And there is a fire catching among us.  I mean, I think I knew this had My Exact Vibes from the first time I heard of it. so perhaps it’s not the biggest shock in the world that I really, really liked this, but still - this book deserves the world, and you shoul
And though Girls of Paper and Fire did have occasional issues with off pacing - like there was a little more time spent on a generic Getting To The Palace beginning than I wanted - I think this book thrives so well off tension that in general it’s fairly unputdownable.
There is so much tension, so much of a slow burn between these two characters, and I was living for it.So, here we are, and I loved this, and I can’t wait for book two.
ARC provided by Hachette in exchange for an honest review.   “We might be Paper Girls, easily torn and written upon. The very title we're given suggests that we are blank, waiting to be filled. But what the Demon King and his court do not understand is that paper is flammable. And there is a fire catching among us.”  Once I heard that this was an ownvoices Asian inspired fantasy world where two girls, who are forced to be concubines to a demon king, try to overcome it all and fall in love, I kne
Once I heard that this was an ownvoices Asian inspired fantasy world where two girls, who are forced to be concubines to a demon king, try to overcome it all and fall in love, I knew this was going to be a book for me.
And each year, the demon King takes eight paper girls to be concubines; some willing, others completely unwillingly.
This story stars a young girl named Lei, whose mother was ripped out of her life and taken by the king seven years ago.
I don’t want an easy life. I want a meaningful one.  I don’t think I can ever describe just how much this book means to me, but as soon as I’d heard that this book actually existed, I knew I needed it in my life. And I’m so happy that it’s getting all the hype, because this book is gorgeous and beautiful and a story we all need to read and listen to.In this world called Ikhara, there are three castes, and a Demon King who rules them all. There’s Paper: the lowest caste, fully human, with no an
And I’m so happy that it’s getting all the hype, because this book is gorgeous and beautiful and a story we all need to read and listen to.In this world called Ikhara, there are three castes, and a Demon King who rules them all.
Her mother was taken similarly years ago, and no matter the amount of people saying that it’s a privilege to be chosen as a Paper girl and she should be grateful for it, she still dreads meeting the King, living in his palace, and leaving behind her father.
I already have 301 books on my TBR BUT  this sounds so damn intriguing.An f/f romance,at a palace,nine girls that get trained as consorts? Forbidden love?OH JEEZ!!!*closes eyes and presses the "want to read" button*Oooops! *facepalm*
In Lei’s world, demons rule over mortals and she, a Paper girl—the lowest of the casts—has no power whatsoever.
She gets in trouble because she doesn’t take the time to question and plan, someone else usually does that for her.
I haven’t read a story with demons in some time, and there’s something interesting about having supernatural creatures and mortals live in the same dimension—you never know what could happen.
And in this particular case, there’s also the question of who Lei is.
What’s her role in this world?Even if I complain about Lei, I’m glad she’s the main character.
4.5 Stars ”We might be Paper Girls, easily torn and written upon. The very title we’re given suggests that we are blank, waiting to be filled. But what the Demon King and his court do not understand is that paper is flammable. And there is a fire catching among us. You know that special pain that comes when a book with an amazing premise fails to live up to expectations? Now imagine the exact opposite. THAT was this book for me. That special kind of joy when a book with high expectations deliver
You know that special pain that comes when a book with an amazing premise fails to live up to expectations?
That special kind of joy when a book with high expectations deliversLei lives in a world dominated by a magical caste system.
Those with demon blood, (Moon) those with human blood, (Paper) and those with both (Steel.) This caste system quickly opens a dialogue about the nature of oppression.
It’s fierce Asian girls in love, and while I can’t speak for the representation as a whole, I know how much it matters.The writing is actually so beautiful and it’s astounding that this is a debut?
We might be Paper Girls, easily torn and written upon. The very title we're given suggests that we are blank, waiting to be filled. But what the Demon King and his court do not understand is that paper is flammable. And there is a fire catching among us.  An own-voices queer characters story about two sapphic girls who fall in love while experiencing violence and abuse as they are held as concubines to the Demon King? It totally sounded like something we had never gotten, but it wasn’t everyth
An own-voices queer characters story about two sapphic girls who fall in love while experiencing violence and abuse as they are held as concubines to the Demon King?
Lei is a character who did not allow herself to be let down, held down by the Demon King who made her feel like she was not worth everything that she was made of.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI am so cheesed off right now that I'm having trouble putting my fury to (virtual) paper. This is CHILDREN OF BLOOD AND BONE all over again. People were singing this book's praises for being diverse!fantasy featuring not just a heroine of color, but a heroine of color who was a lesbian. How could this be bad? I asked myself. The advance reviews were great, and almost unanimously positive. It was an F/F romance set in a fantasyscape based of
This year, they've decided to go with Nine: Special Specialton herself, Lei.Lei is cast in the vein of every Mary Sue ever, although for some reason, people are adoring and forgiving her for her utter self-aggrandizing blandness in this book where they condemned Bella Swan for it.
This is written in a style that I call "Basic B*tch YA." The language is simple, the dialogue wooden, and there's a few nice quotes thrown in for people to put on IG or Pinterest, and trick people like me into reading the book thinking it's going to be good.
Wow wow wow. This book was so intense and amazing. I’m still processing how I feel about it. I absolutely loved it though.
In this fantasy world, every year, the violent and oppressive Demon King—the strongest of a caste of people marked by their animal-like appearances—takes eight Paper Girls (of the plain, human Paper caste) to become his concubines. Lei never expected to become one of those girls, but even more shocking was the twist of fate she met upon her arrival at the palace—her unstoppable and desperate fall into a forbidden love with another Paper Girl. When I first heard the synopsis for this book, I was
In this fantasy world, every year, the violent and oppressive Demon King—the strongest of a caste of people marked by their animal-like appearances—takes eight Paper Girls (of the plain, human Paper caste) to become his concubines.
The last major positive I want to mention is the entire character design of Wren, one of the other Paper Girls.
All in all, Girls of Paper and Fire is a difficult book for me to rate and review.
I believe it’s important for everyone, but especially young people, to see themselves in the stories they consume—to feel acceptance and kinship.
To be inspired for their own stories, real and imagined.
Even magical worlds have their roots in our own, and I would love to see more books reflecting the rich variety of our individual realities.Set in an Asian-inspired fantasy world where a Demon King takes human girls for concubines, this is the story of the forbidden love between two of the girls and how far they are willing to fight for their freedom - and each other.
It is a story about love and friendship, about trauma and despair.
✨ My full review is now up on my blog! Also, this happened … no big deal. “I know what it means to dream about the past.To dream about things you have loved, and lost.” Some books entrance you with their devastatingly gorgeous, lush, and magical prose, transporting you to a whole new world with the magnificent imagery they weave, leaving you spellbound, and speechless.Some books draw you in with characters so full of heart and soul that you feel as if you’re living their stories, leaving you hel
Some books entrance you with their devastatingly gorgeous, lush, and magical prose, transporting you to a whole new world with the magnificent imagery they weave, leaving you spellbound, and speechless.Some books draw you in with characters so full of heart and soul that you feel as if you’re living their stories, leaving you helpless to do anything else but fall in love with them irrevocably.And very seldom, but every once in a while, all the stars line up, and you find a book that does both—and it’s as if a small piece of your heart that you’ve always felt was missing finds its way to you, cloaked in feelings that can’t quite be articulated, but are experienced all the more deeply.Girls of Paper and Fire is a book that gradually wound its way into my heart, and has since nestled itself snugly in a corner, radiating light and happiness, whenever I find myself reminiscing about it, even despite the heavy subject matters it incloses.
October Fairyloot! Pink Sprayed Edges! Yessss!! Although, I think it's next month that the US and Canada are not getting sprayed edges. Only other countries and of course that made me mad because y'all know I'm addicted to sprayed edges! =D Click on link below the pic to see the goods! LINK TO THE GOODSThis was also the Owlcrate November book. I'm tired of getting the same books from both boxes. I love the Fairyloot book better with the pink edges. But here is a link to the goodies that were in the Owlcrate box with it. OWLCRATE GOODIES
This looks sensational.
hOW AM I SUPPOSED TO WAIT FOR THE SEQUEL I AM IN TEARS THE CLIFFHANGER IS TOO MUCH --------------------------------------wow, this is EVEN MORE BEAUTIFUL IN REAL LIFE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
😁😁CW: Rape (happens off-page but is still horrific), attempted rape, abuse, sexual assault, animal death.Girls of Paper and Fire is an Asian inspired fantasy story where there are three castes in which people are separated in.Paper - Humans.Steel - Half human half demon.
Though the story does take place in one setting for a good chunk of the book, there are hints that more of the world will be explored and I am eagerly waiting for it.The character of Lei is one I really liked.
And can I just say the amount of Asian #ownvoices fantasies coming out at the moment is incredible (!!) not only that this has an f/f romance, demons, rebellions, secret assassins, empowering female friendships aND A BEAUTIFUL COVER.bless tbh, we have been blessed➸ WORLD BUILDINGdude, this was amazing.
We do need to note this.It's about the demon king taking girls as concubines, so yes there is rape and sexual abuse and violence.
I think I can count on one hand how many f/f epic fantasies I've read so *smol flail* this is amazing and more please.➸ Like idk what else do you want from me?
This book is one of those rare gems where both the execution AND idea are phenomenal.
The story is totally unique and so creative that part of me wants to spend a thousand words breaking it down here.
Buuuut I decided not to say much about the plot because a lot of the fun in reading the book was discovering each new idea or element like The vivid, rich world was probably my favorite part of the story because it felt so real.
4.5 starsSO GOOD!!!
This was a good YA fantasy book.
I’m a huge fantasy fan so I was excited to read this.
However, the rape scene is fade to black so it’s enough for you to know it happened but the details are not there.I’m not the biggest fan of spec-fic books where the characters are passive.
While that does happen some in this book, Lei and the other main character Wren are both really strong of heart.
I thought the romance was really sweet.
If you are a YA fantasy fan, you will probably enjoy this book.
The short and direct answer is that it is a good book, but I certainly think it could have been better.
The book started by explaining the mythology but it didn’t expand that much further.🌟 The plot was good, I can’t say that I was surprised.
I like slow burn romance, but I think the romance here was kind of forced upon the story and I wasn’t convinced.Also, This Emperor may be one of the fluffiest emperors I have ever seen.
I expected more from all of the characters.🌟 Summary: I am pretty sure that this is a story that will get many fans and success and that is good.
“Her kisses heal the parts of me that the King broke. They tell me: You are strong, Lei. You are beautiful. You are mine. And, always, most important: You are yours.”  There were some really beautiful moments in this book!!!! So, even though I’m only giving it 2.5/5 stars, I want it to be known that I support this book 100000% and feel tremendously proud that it exists. It's setting such a positive/powerful example. HOWEVER. The story itself just wasn’t my cup of tea??? I FEEL SO BITTER. my l
So, even though I’m only giving it 2.5/5 stars, I want it to be known that I support this book 100000% and feel tremendously proud that it exists.
The way the story is told felt technical and forced for me, especially toward the middle and end??
The story follows Eight Paper (lowest caste) Girls who are chosen to sleep with the Demon King for a year.
^^the most romantic thing that happens in the entire book^^I feel like I’m going to be kicked out of the cool club forever for not liking this.
First we have the Paper caste which are the lowest in the world of Ikhara, this caste consists of the humans which includes the main character Lei of the story.
When we have demons ruling the world within obviously things are not pretty but with the girls being taken to compete against one another for a promised better life serving the King you have that vibe of the Selection with some friendship, some cattiness and Ngan went one step further with a love interest among the girls.Now one may ask why bother if the story is similar to others?
Women supporting each other rather than spreading hate and jealousy amongst themselves.Imagine a book with incredibly intricate world building that feels like it's a real thing that actually happened.
That's how the world in this book felt like to me.
Just like we have them in the real world.
Women are beautiful, magnificent creatures and I want authors to acknowledge and embrace that diversity.
ARC received via publisher! The cover is so pretty!!
I’ve spent the past year thinking I’d fallen out of love with fantasy, but Girls of Paper and Fire (& Forest of a Thousand Lanterns) have proven just how wrong I was.
The different caste’s and the way the various demons were introduced and described were never confusing and always captured my curiosity.From the first page until the last, I became totally lost in the story and the world I found myself in.
After the epic cliffhanger this book delivered, the wait until its sequels release is going to be a painful one but I’m incredibly excited for it.Simply put, Girls of Paper and Fire completely and utterly captured my heart.
The book is for fantasy for sure, but it is introduced in a unique way.
The book follows Lei, who is from the Paper caste, which is also the poorest caste.
Only Paper castes are chosen to be concubines, and only eight are chosen each year.
I really loved this book overall.
It's really worth it in the end and it gets really intense.
I loved Lei as a character.
It's forbidden for the king's concubines to take their own lovers, and that creates this really tense and forbidden romance between them.
I'm really excited to see where this story goes and where Lei as a character goes too.
this was one of my most anticipated releases of the year and let me tell y'all IT DOES NOT DISAPPOINTmy full review will be posted closer to the release date but !! mark your calendars pals, you need this sapphic Asian fantasy debut in your life!!!CW: animal death, sexual assault and rape, amisic language (Feel free to message me for more details if any of these are triggers for you/stuff you'd rather be warned about. ❤)~~~~~I AM HOLDING AN ARC IN MY HANDS THIS IS NOT A DRILLBR with Elise 💗💗
this was one of my most anticipated releases of the year and let me tell y'all IT DOES NOT DISAPPOINTmy full review will be posted closer to the release date but !! mark your calendars pals, you need this sapphic Asian fantasy debut in your life!!!CW: animal death, sexual assault and rape, amisic language (Feel free to message me for more details if any of these are triggers for you/stuff you'd rather be warned about. ❤️)~~~~~I AM HOLDING AN ARC IN MY HANDS THIS IS NOT A DRILLBR with Elise 💗💗
