https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/288967.The_Law_at_Randado
For all that, though, it's still very well-written, spare and lean, befitting the Arizona setting.A group of Randado's prominent citizens, manipulated by rich cattle baron Phil Sundeen, lynch a pair of rustlers without waiting on due process of law.
Frye is an interesting character, torn between youthful impetuousness and level-headed responsibility, and Sundeen is a nicely sleazy villain.
The other characters all straddle lines somewhere between the two, but their main crime seems to be cowardice.So...
THE LAW AT RANDADO is a typical Western, elevated by a fast-pace and superior writing.
Elmore Leonard’s early western novels show a gifted short story writer learning how to master the longer narrative form.
The Bounty Hunters (1953) is a sometimes awkward attempt to extend and enlarge characters and situations that would make sharply conceived material for short stories but thin out and lose focus over the length of a novel.The Law at Randado shows him still learning, but he’s turning what he knows of the short story into what holds together well for its 250 pages and more than maintains our interest.
The novel still reads like a series of short stories, but each flows smoothly into the next, with continuing characters, and a central thread linking two of them, a sheriff and a young deputy he has hired...More at my blog.
A standard horse opera/oater from the master. This noir style western is The Ox-Bow Incident meets Mississippi Burning.A deputy sheriff returns to Randado to find that the two Mexican horse thieves he jailed pending trial are lynched by the townsfolk. They are led by a spoiled brat and his hired gunman.This novel was filmed in 1990 and billed as Border Shootout.https://youtu.be/4piEuEotSKo
Who reads Westerns anymore? I do. On occasion. THE LAW AT RANDADO, First out in 1954, has been reissued. Mr. Leonard tells a good story. What happens after a remote town decides to take the law in their hands and lynch a couple of rustlers? Intriguing premise. Sharp dialogue, as you'd expect in any EL saga.
What happens when you are a young and new lawman in the wild west? Find out in this ripping yarn by one of the greats.
this will be the 45th title i've read by leonard. good stories from him...haven't been disappointed yet...and this one has a fine beginning. and the middle and end is okay, too. elmer leonard never disappoints. onward and upward.
Another crisp, well written western by Leonard. This story is about a deputy sheriff against a wealthy rancher who has all the town fathers on his side. But he underestimates the young deputy.
This fairly simple tale, the first of Elmore Leonard's westerns to come my way, is quite different from the stories he set in modern times. Previously, I'd read  Get Shorty , which I liked, and its sequel,  Be Cool , as well as  Mr. Paradise . Those latter two weren't as good. I admire the dialog in the above Leonard novels, which is convincing and clever, but I don't like his focus on, perhaps even celebration of, the seamy side of life. Because of that I'd thought I was done with him, but when
Because of that I'd thought I was done with him, but when The Law at Randado came along I remembered wanting to see how he handled this other genre.Kirby Frye is a capable young fellow, recently made deputy by Pima County Sheriff John Danaher, and this is the story of his initiation in that role.
To convey their views, the later Elmore Leonard might've relied more on dialog.
I guess it's really about the young man confirming his worthiness to Danaher.But in spite of that I did like seeing how Frye handles his challenge.
The Law at Randado (1954) In Elmore Leonard’s second western novel, Kirby Frye is the young deputy in charge of Randado when a group of local businessmen, led by rancher Phil Sundeen, lynch a couple of Mexicans in his jail.
Like the best of Leonard’s westerns, it’s true to formula and subverts it at the same time.
His characters are neither all good nor all bad, and he nicely turns around the one man against the town scenario; the realism here is the way the community itself, led by the range of people who have been hosed by Sundeen themselves, comes together.
Kirby Frye learns to uphold the law in southern Arizona.
Good solid Western fiction
I recently endured a brief string of good-but-not-great books so decided to go back to an Elmore Leonard Western as a potential "sure thing." "The Law at Randado" was just that, with its share of men of principle set against those who constantly rationalize their worst actions so long as there's any self-benefit. In the world of arrogance, self-entitlement and fear-mongering that passes for today's America, it's quite great to be able to call upon two true American treasures -- the classic Western and novelist Elmore Leonard, since no one transacts that genre any better.
Compared with Elmore Leonard's first novel, The Bounty Hunters, I couldn't help but feel that The Law at Randado lacked some of the subtlety in characters and their choices that I really loved about that first book.
Kirby Frye lacked the depth that I saw in Dave Flynn.
Honestly, I was much more interested in Danaher, and I kind of wish that his story had taken over for Frye's at some point.
All in all, this isn't a bad Western story - I just don't think it matches up with his first.
I'm not saying the West was entirely devoid of folks of this high-caliber, people like Bat Masterson, but most of the lawmen of the Old West were fairly shady characters, say along the lines of Wyatt Earp.
Real people and believable fictional characters tend to be gray.The same can be said for a good villain.
Villains should have at least a few good qualities and there isn't any for Randado's antagonist.You know by now I was disappointed in the too black-and-white characters of The Law at Randado.
I recommend The Law at Randado if you like the classic, all-too-predictable stories of old regarding the West.
Old school western. A boy's book with lots of pg (maybe pg-13) shoot em ups, vigilante justice, cowboys, sheriffs and humor. The action scenes are fun and the last scene is fun.
I've read three of Elmore Leonard's westerns now: the excellent Valdez is Coming, the disjointed The Bounty Hunters, and now this, which ranks somewhere in the high middle between them.
This starts with a very standard, traditional Western – young deputy trying to make his way in a semi corrupt town having to prove himself – but it plays a lot on your expectations.
After having read and been totally disappointed in The Bounty Hunters, I was glad to see that Elmore Leonard's reputation was well deserved.
In this book, Mr Leonard includes some of those classic western features: a green lawman, an evil cattle barron and his henchmen, and ultimately the showdown between the two.
But other than that this book, like the other 3 Elmore Leonard westerns I've read, doesn't follow traditional formulas all that much.
I know that sounds pretty much like a formula western novel but it is Mr Leonard's style that makes the difference.
I'll continue to recommend Elmore Leonard's western novels to those who like westerns or those that just like a good story that won't take hours and hours to complete.
This is a western story by Elmore Leonard, one of the finest authors writing in the last 50 years.
The story is a coming of age story about a young deputy sheriff, Kirby Frye, who must take on the rich and powerful to enforce the law in a small community.
As always with Leonard, the writing is lean and the dialogue is true to life.
This book takes about 3-5 hours to read.
Frye is testing and grows and matures as the book moves along.
Leonard could have written more books about Kirby Frye, but he chose not to.This is a quick read.
Of course no writer is just one thing, but generally speaking we can say there are writers who entertain and writers who change your life - those who rearrange your molecules (as someone told Anais Nin of Henry Miller) - and those who make you turn the page with the promise of fulfilling your own expectations.
The thing is, this is my third Leonard book (and I have a couple left on my shelves), and I've never been all that entertained.
One thing that bothered me is that, though the villain started out in a position of numerical strength over the hero, by halfway through the book the villain is outnumbered and on the run.
In addition, early in the book the villain has a gunfighter working for him.
Although the gunfighter at one point is ordered to provoke a fight with the hero, which doesn't work out, the gunfighter doesn't, otherwise, take part in any of the villainous acts of the primary bad guy.
Then, once the bad guy is on the run, the gunfighter splits with him and rides off.
The only reason I couldn't rate this any higher is the amount of vulgar language throughout the book, which kept me from enjoying it as much as I could have.
I guess magazine standards of decency in the 1950s kept that out of Leonard's short Western fiction, which I have read and enjoyed.
(The difference between the short fiction and this novel illustrates a point I've always held: it is definitely possible to write a good and even a tough story without that type of language.) Aside from that issue, The Law at Randado has all the same crisp, tight writing and sharp character delineation as his short stories.
‘The Law at Randado’, his second (1954), pits the reckless, spoiled son of a rich Arizona cattle rancher and his motley supporters against an unproven new deputy sheriff and the uncertain authority of county law.
Story impact is diluted by too many points of view, and I found the choreography of the fist and gun fights a little laboured and hard to follow, but it’s fascinating to feel Leonard’s development since his first (The Bounty Hunters, 1953).
This tale is of legally unsound frontier justice and its aftermath that is subsequently avenged (and in a viscerally satisfying manner)by the forces of law and order.Western - Rancher Phil Sundeen pressures the citizens of Randado to elect a city judge and prosecutor and try the two Mexican prisoners for cattle rustling.
The Mexican are found guilty, kidnapped from the jail and hung.
He won't stay away, however, and with the aid of Sheriff Danaher, the Coyotero prisoner Dandy Jim, and other victims of Sundeen's abuse, he moves to bring the members of the lynch mob to justice.
Two men are arrested for rustling and town leaders, urged on by the son of the wealthy rancher, form a kangaroo court.
When the deputy sheriff in charge of the town returns he confronts the men responsible.
He is run out of town, but returns with the sheriff and deals with those responsible.There are a lot of standard Western themes in this story; the young deputy, the entitled son of the wealthy rancher, the tough older mentor.
All great themes.
While some of the plot is predictable, there are some really great twists and turns on these themes.
I enjoyed it much more than I did Leonard's first book. It had a lot more of the smoothness of the later books. I did however have a problem with how Leonard made things a bit too easy for his main character. Kirby starts with a disadvantage, but instead of overcoming it various plot points turn everything to his advantage. I also didn't understand why Dandy Jim was included in this book and I especially didn't understand the continued dismissal of the horrible thing he did to his wife.
A slight book, even taking into account that it's genre fiction. I was hoping that it would be cool because it's Elmore Leonard. Not so much. The central character, Kirby Frye, is vaguely engaging. The various bad guys seem like interchangeable cliches. Nothing in this book grabbed me, elevated me, or caught my imagination. The primary virtue was that it ended quickly.
I like Leonard. Not the type of guy you want to read two books in a row from, but great, relaxing stuff.This one was better than his average, though just why I'd be hard put to say as there isn't a great deal of change in his stories or characters.Be a good academic excercise...if I were the type for that sort of excercise.
Did you know that Elmore Leonard wrote "Westerns" before he became the big time author of crazy characters that John Travolta and Danny Devito take to the screen? Well, he did, and they are actually quite good for the genre. He only wrote a few and this is the first one. try it, youo might be surprised. Quick and easy.
Good read. My first Leonard book and I really enjoyed it. Simple plot and a simple story to get you there. When I read for pleasure this is exactly what I want. I was able to leave my world and all its cares and join the characters in the book. Also learned a little about character and persistence. I will certainly read his other books.
Leonard can tell a westernBig fan of Elmore Leonard and I've read several of his books. This is the first Leonard western for me. An extended essay on vigilante justice and the courage required to stand up to "important men," there's a message in this novel beyond the western plot. I plan to read more Leonard westerns!
