https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216442.Dark_Force_Rising
The Force is stronger in the second book!  DIFFICULT TO SEE THE CLONE WARS IS  There's your twice of nothing. Enjoy it. This second book is better than the first one, while I still considering quite relevant and important the first book, just lacking of a climax of my taste.However, again, due that the novel was written several years before of that any happened before Episode IV, so it was great to watch all the details and planning done by Timothy Zahn, the author, about the Clone Wars and eve
This second book is better than the first one, while I still considering quite relevant and important the first book, just lacking of a climax of my taste.However, again, due that the novel was written several years before of that any happened before Episode IV, so it was great to watch all the details and planning done by Timothy Zahn, the author, about the Clone Wars and events around that era, however, nowadays there are already some “timeline mistakes”, but......what is Star Wars without polemic for events that they don’t match with some movie anyway?Even the movies have mistakes of storyline between each other and they are just six films (for now).One good thing is to appreciate, even since the first book, how Timothy Zahn wasn’t only telling the story at hand but also planning a bigger scale of narrative, including names, places, events, etc...
Everybody's favorite villain Thrawn suddenly loses quite a few IQ points.
He was a genius in the first book whose machinations always brought the reactions from the New Republic people he expected and anticipated, but this time he makes one mistake after another allowing the good guys to turn practically hopeless situations into small victories.
None of them feel exactly like their movie depiction, but as main good characters they can hold on their own.
If however you want to be entertained and have fun the first two books are exactly what you are looking for.
S.T.A.R W.A.R.S and Zahn invented a bunch of space ships that need smaller crew.
Again, Zahn had the entire universe to fill with cool characters and he creates someone who wants to kill Luke Skywalker because he made her lose her job via killing the Emperor.
Evil Jedi C'Boath who is so badass that he gets Luke to come and visit him and then MAKES HIM be judge to a bunch of farmers.
And I'm not even kidding.The drab, the bland, the dull writing, the boring plotting is too much to really need outlining to a great degree.
This book is barely Star Wars.
This time the main story arc sees the Empire and the New Republic in a desperate race to discover the location of the Dark Force, the Katana fleet of nearly 200 Dreadnoughts, that went missing under mysterious circumstances during the Clone Wars.
Princess Leia was the most improved of the characters and she had the most interesting story arc in this installment.
The Noghri proved and interesting race and it was great to see Leia more proactive in her actions.Talon Karrde was as fantastic in this installment as he was in the last.
Luke's story arc was more interesting this time around.
Because today's the day, isn't it? May the 4th be with you 🙌🏻
Still needs more Lightsaber. I have a feeling the final book in this trilogy is going to be cracking!
There's just a whole lot of setup going on between the many players as Leia, Luke and Han together with Lando went their separate ways before they are drawn back together with a common goal as they managed to gather information separately about a certain lost fleet.
While Luke sometimes grated on my nerves by being too goody-two-shoes, a few other characters begun to shine in this book.
Even though he didn't have much airtime, Wing Commander Wedge Antilles of Rogue Squadron was becoming a character which I really liked.
I don't have a lot to say about this one.
The characters really stay the same.
Mara Jade shows a lot of depth.
Karrde is quickly becoming a great character with a lot of sarcasm.
My favorite plot line was actually Leia's and I thought it was extremely fun to learn about her and the Noghri people.
And the end was full of action that was fun and gripping.
Overall, I have to say I like this better than the first one, enough to up it to 4 stars.
I liked the plot and the searching and racing between the two parties.
This review applies to all three of the Thrawn Trilogy novelsIt might not be entirely fair to these books that I first started reading them expecting them to be masterpieces (touted by more than a few people I know as the very best of Star Wars EU fiction), because to be quite honest, I was more disappointed than I was impressed with them.
However, there are several aspects of these books that just irked me the entire way through, and ultimately prevent the series from getting any more than a "read it if you've got nothing else better to read" recommendation from me.The first and biggest problem with the Thrawn Trilogy is the portrayal of the central characters from the original Star Wars films.
Dark Force Rising, the sequel to Heir to the Empire, continues the new Star Wars saga.
Meanwhile, Leia Organa Solo continues to investigate the Noghri, a strange alien race that has been attempting to capture her and her unborn twins.As with Heir, the strengths of the book are Zahn's original characters, particularly Karrde, Mara Jade, and Grand Admiral Thrawn, and his plotting.
4.5 stars. The Thrawn Trilogy, of which this is the second book, set the standard for "non-canon" star wars books and is still among the best in that group. This is a great universe (i.e., star wars) written by an excellent author (i.e., Zahn). The result is a very good read.
For most of the book, Han and Lando are also on the trail of the Katana fleet, trying to find it first and keep it out of the Empire's hands.
I especially love Luke in these moments, because he treats her with such respect and kindness, even as he knows she wants to kill him.Leia actually has the most interesting story in the book, though, as she and Chewie are purportedly on the run, trying to keep Leia and her twins safe from Joruus C'baoth and Thrawn's assassins, the Noghri, who are tasked with delivering them to the insane Jedi.
*Review of the 20th anniversary audiobook*I am still really enjoying this trilogy. If I had one complaint, it would be that I wish Zahn had included more force/saber action. Besides that, however, these books are heavily in the spirit of the original movies.
An improvement over the first book.
The author leans heavily on the reader’s assumed knowledge of the Star Wars franchise.
Readers are very obviously supposed to be picturing Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill in their minds’ eye while reading and superimposing their film knowledge over the skeleton that Zahn provides.Readers that enjoy this trilogy should also consider reading the Legend of Drizzt series by R.A. Salvatore.
They require about the same level of reading ability and provide less graphic violence than some other science fiction/fantasy series.Book number 298 in my Science Fiction & Fantasy Reading Project.
But, to be original, I'll try to come up with different things I like.Timothy Zahn continues to show his Star Wars writing prowess in book two.
He continues the Star Wars feel with this entry, from the characters, to the actions, to the theme.To his character repertoire, Zahn adds Garm Bel Iblis, a former Senator from Corellia--and rival to Mon Mothma.
I just think that this book could have been much stronger after how great the first book was.THE STORY: The battle against between the fledgling New Republic and a resurgent empire lead by Grand Admiral Thrawn continues as a political shakeup on coruscant occurs and our classic heroes of Luke, Han, and Leia search for answers, all while progressing in their own personal adventures and quests.Crafty politician Borrsk Feylya has made a nasty power play on coruscant, unseating Admiral Ackbar from his military command and accusing him of treason.
Zahn’s Thrawn trilogy is fun, and this, the first volume gets things off to a cracking start: it reintroduces us to the classic figures, Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia, Han Solo et al, and some minor characters, and gives us a menacing new villain, yet the writing is never as strong as I recall, and all the nods to the classic films becomes a little tiring.I did, however, plough through all three novels with such speed, and enjoyed them immensely while reading them, that I can see what eleven year old me enjoyed in them, and why fans of the Star Wars world still read them today.
It took me 20+ years to get to this highly regarded Star Wars series, but I'm enjoying it.
Some of it is hokey and contrived, some of it is brilliant and inspired, and some of it just seems a bit dated, thanks to Episodes I-III.Zahn is a solid writer and he's created an action-packed space opera that would be terrific on the big screen, even though Disney would have to re-cast the main roles.
Since I am, though, I find myself eagerly scouring used bookstores for a copy of the third book.
The plot threads pull the reader in many directions yet all are easy enough to follow, including those involving lesser popular characters.Secondary to the core plot is an element of political infighting within the New Republic that runs rife amongst its leaders who are under fire for seemingly aligning with the Empire.Speaking of the Empire, its trickery is paramount to their stronghold over a devastating damaged planet spanning back to the clone wars - this contributes to the space opera feel of DARK FORCE RISING.
DARK FORCE RISING Continues the expansion of the original trilogy by further defining the newer characters introduced in HEIR TO THE EMPIRE.
And of course, there's the Dark Force itself: a whooper of a McGuffin in the form of a huge fleet of battleships who can tilt the balance of forces decisively between Empire and Alliance, depending on who gets to them first.A good filler for the middle of the series, developing the new characters (Mara, Thrawn, Karrde) and exploring several new planet systems, but still derivative and, for me, lacking in humor.
it would've been 5 stars ......if it weren't for this paragraph Luke swallowed.
Master Yoda had lifted his X-wing out of a Dagobah swamp once … but Master Yoda had been far stronger in the Force than Luke was.
“Let’s find out,” he said.
Taking a deep breath, clearing his mind, he raised his hand and reached out with the Force.The walker didn’t even quiver.
Luke tried again; and again.
Either the machine was wedged too tightly against walls and ceiling to move, or Luke simply didn’t have the strength to lift it.what happened to(Do Or do not There is no try)
The second book of the acclaimed "Thrawn Trilogy" picks up right where Heir To The Empire left off, and the stakes are much higher this time.
And Han & Lando are in a race with the ruthless Grand Admiral Thrawn and his newly-resurrected Empire to try to locate a fleet of ghostly spaceships that could potentially win the war for either side.While Dark Force Rising was certainly a fun read, I didn't enjoy it quite as much as the first book.
Executive Summary: Not as good as the first book, this was still another enjoyable entry in this series. Audio book: Marc Thompson once again gives a stellar performance. Add to that the sound effects and music and audio is the only way to do this book in my opinion. Full Review Empire Strikes Back is probably my favorite Star Wars Movie. So could the middle book of this trilogy top the original as well? No it couldn't.I found the middle of the book particularly slow, especially Leia's storyline
There were a few parts where I was able to predict what was going to happen, not because it seemed like it was reasonable, but simply because Thrawn has rather ridiculous levels of deduction.
The story is compelling enough to keep me wanting to keep listening to see where things are going next.I think with this book Talon Karrde has become my favorite new character, as Mara Jade's struggle with her past is starting to wear on me.Overall I found this to be a decent entry in this trilogy with a fantastic climax making up for some of it's other faults and jumped right into the final book.3.5 Stars rounded up due to strong finish.
Another good entry into the Star Wars universe that I would recommend to anyone interested in the franchise.Really, this is epic space fantasy.
Anyone care to argue about this?Dark Force Rising has a bigger, more political story than other Star Wars and tie-in novels that I've read, and that's a huge draw for me.
Their work is parsecs beyond what most audiobook accomplish.But there were some things that I could have gone without, like the Noghri story line, which didn't interest me at all...and it ends up being such a large part of this book.Also, Luke.
Especially those books that I loved as a kid.
Last year, I revisited the first book and it was still great but I could definitely see some of it's flaws.
It's got everything you could hope for:- Mad Jedi Insanity!- Han and Lando Adventures!- Luke and Mara Jade breaking into Grand Admiral Thrawn's Star Destroyer...to break somebody out of jail!- Space battles!- Space legends!- Princess Leia doing what she does best...CALMLY NEGOTIATING!This was such a fun revisit that I will definitely finish out the series with "The Last Command" and probably won't wait another year to do so.
This is so much fun to listen to on audiobook because the guy reading it can do all the voices!
You know, read another book, maybe two, then come back to the third in the trilogy.
It's a spectrum really, I fit in there somewhere along the rest of fandom, I briefly had a role in a SW fan film when I was 30 years old (it never got made, but I was still cast in it!) and I had every single action figure from the original SW movie in my collection, as well as my AT-AT and Millenium Falcon.
Then when I started making movies in my early twenties I decided to build some models for my epic space scenes, just like they did in Star Wars, and so I finally disassembled my quite valuable AT-AT and Millenium Falcon for spare parts.
Dark Force Rising is the sequel to Heir to the Empire, it's also the first Star Wars book I ever read.
Dark Force Rising was pretty nonsensical to me the first time I read it but improved tremendously once I had a context for who Mara Jade, Talon Karrde, and Grand Admiral Thrawn were.
Which is amusing because Thrawn is ALSO Rommel.) One of the interesting things that Prequel fans will note is that the book is strongly tied to the Clone Wars and Old Republic despite the fact George Lucas hadn't created either yet.
Maybe I'm biased but Dark Force Rising is one of my all-time favorite Star Wars books.
Nowhere near as fun as HEIR TO THE EMPIRE - the charm of seeing our heroes back in action has dampened considerably, and Zahn's riffs on the original trilogy feel a lot more forced and uninspired than in the first book.
There are a lot of flaws, but it's still a very serviceable adventure that filled me with nostalgia.
There's a reason these characters have endured so long in the Star Wars mythos - Zahn writes them with such compelling depth that you're almost sad when our heroes stop them.
