https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5453.Forever_in_Blue
(view spoiler)[ I'm not familiar with sex crime laws in 2007, but the scene between Tibby and Brian fits today's definition of rape.
But the other part of me knows that people are assaulted by someone they know or are romantically involved with way too often and the law doesn't exclude relationships and even marriages from sex crimes.Honestly, I'm frustrated in myself for continually getting caught up in this kind of crap with books, but I'm even more mad that books keep blurring the lines like this.I know, I know.
★ 3.5 / 5 ★I can’t believe the first time I read The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants was when I was in 5th grade—and here I am just finishing the series (I realize there’s a 5th book, but that’s more of an add-on to the series).
Either way, this was put off for too long, but I’m glad that it didn’t disappoint.As always, I connected the most to Lena.
Don’t tell me I’m the only one who does that, too.Carmen and Tibby, as always, weren’t my favorites; however, I learned to enjoy Carmen more.
It was nice remembering that feeling and re-connecting with these characters.
I guess the Traveling Pants series couldn't go on forever, especially once the girls started growing up and starting college.
We actually had 2 versions of this journal, one started earlier by another friend and returned to her and the other later, me.
When I go through the journal that I have, I wish we had treated it a little more like a scrapbook with magazine clippings and photos to preserve more of the visual culture from back then.In any case, going back to the book...
However, the movie version may be more fitting for the story since the girls are and look older than their book age.
I enjoyed this last book in the Sisterhood of the Travelling Pants series.
Maybe that's because I am always asking questions in my own head!!Also, although the girls were apart for longer than ever before, the inclusion of the Pants started to seem forced.
[SPOILER ALERT] When the Pants were lost at the end of the book, I did not think it was a tragedy, as they had stopped being necessary to the story.
And that turned out to be the lesson the girls learned, as well: they didn't need the travelling pants to keep them together.
And in some ways I was (I mean, we get it already) but the fact is, I always liked Kostos and felt bad for the position he found himself in.
While it was nice to see Lena finally make an effort to move forward I still felt for Kostos after the way she treated him during his surprise visit.
It smacked of Bridget from 3 years ago and felt like a big step backwards for her.Tibby: I've always said that Tibby was my favorite of the four girls but My re-read of the series has made me wonder how I ever could have thought that.
The characters felt like they never learnt ANYTHING over the course of the series and continued to make the same string of mistakes.
He's the actual worst and having waded through four of these books, I STILL don't know why Lena liked him.
Bee's story in this one filled me with rage, because a) I continue to hate Eric and don't think she should be with him, b) the whole bullshit thing with her 30 year old professor (HAHAHAHAHA SERIOUSLY??
He's just turned 30 and he's a PROFESSOR?!) was super gross, and c) OH MY GOD STOP KNEELING IN THE TRENCH OH MY GOD.
A lot of the plot lines are the same (especially with Bee, who's storyline was very similar to book 1 which was kind of annoying to me) and to be honest, some of the "angst" that the girls go through was overdone and rather tedious as well.
To me, the only storyline I rather enjoyed and related to was Carmen's.
If I had to pick one of them that was most like me in HS, Carmen would be that (minus the Latino factor LOL).This book was also WAY more "adult" than the previous three (maybe because they have finished their first year of college...I don't know).
Knowing who the books are primarily written for, I would strongly recommend that mothers read the book first and then determine if they want their daughters to read it.
I think it could be the catalyst for some important conversations on morality and other coming of age topics, and if used in this context it might be useful for both mother and daughter to read.
However, I personally believe premarital and extramarital sex are wrong and I don't like the cavalier attitude towards these in the book.
That will be a discussion I mostly definitely have with my children without ever having them read this book.
This might be my favorite in the original series. Each of the girl's went on a fantastic journey and learned so much about themselves. Pants = Love
How I Came To Read This Book: I read the first three?The Plot: The Sisterhood is back one last time as the girls regroup following their freshman year at college.
The girls are farther apart than they'd ever been in past books, a good call on Brashares part to both tone down their overemphasized sisterhood friendship, but also to represent the natural drift college creates.
That being said, it also defeated the purpose of the books - instead of being about friendship and self-discovery/growth, the book was more focused on relationships, love, and sex.
You’d think that by the fourth book in a series, I’d be somewhat invested in these characters but for most of the book I didn’t really care what happened to them or if the ending would be satisfying.That being said, the last third of the book was pretty good.
I do feel the need to note that one of my friends loves these books and has been waiting to read this one because she’s so sad it’s the last in the series.
It has a truly amazing story but I'm sad that this is the final book in the SISTERHOOD OF THE TRAVELING PANTS series.
I never wanted this series to end!
It is a remarkable ending to such a great series, though!
At her college she is taking a summer painting class and maybe she will meet someone new there.
She and her new friend have a summer that no one would suspect.
Or will it mean the end of their relationship?
There is a major twist in the end of the book that I never saw coming.
LOVE LOVE LOVE this book!
I always told myself "eh, I'll just put the book down after this chapter ends and wash the dishes," but it's SO GOOD it ends up being an hour before I move from the spot from where I was reading (standing up, of course).
I didn't cry at the end, but everything came together and ended quite wonderfully.This series I'll definitely read again-- I have the 1st movie and love it, but have yet to watch the second because I watched the first 20 min and realized it was a combo of the last 3 books...
Originally, this was the end to Carmen, Tibby, B, and Lena's story, but there is now a fifth book out in the world.
These girls' stories wrapped up well for me.
Of course I still have questions about each of them, how they are doing, where their lives went and are going--but isn't that how we feel about all stories we only sneak peeks at?
Isn't that how we feel about people who have come and gone from our lives?
Because of that, I am wary of this fifth book.
I have envisioned where these girls' lives have taken them and I don't want those imaginings ruined.We shall see.
A deeply satisfying conclusion (but not?) to the series. I love these characters and how their imperfections make them endearing and relateable.
Kids like you had in a real family.
Kids who jumped around and needed things.
Nothing more or less.If you lost the idea, if you somehow forgot about it, the person you loved became a stranger.
The earth turned and time passed and then they would have to think about what it meant.
Those are the places we grew up and the times we spent together, but they aren't us.
If we think they are, then we're lost, because times end and places are lost.
We aren't any place or any time.That's the thing.
From Bridget's point of view[Thursday, February 16, 2012] As their lives take them in different directions, Lena, Tibby, Carmen, and Bridget discover many more things about themselves and the importance of their relationship with each other.I loved the whole series, I read the first 3 books but I wanted to read other things so I took a break and now I am back and I want to finish the last book in the series.
Forever in Blue will leave you feeling miserable and heartbroken. That much could even be suggested in the title. I really enjoyed the journey with these girls and although this one was much more depressing I still reckon this book was worth reading. I would've liked the characters introduced previously to stick around but they were so easily forgotten that I questioned why they were introduced to begin with. (view spoiler)[Billy? Win? Paul? C'mon. (hide spoiler)] Forever in Blue delivered a bittersweet conclusion to the series but left quite a lot to be desired.
In the 4th book we follow Carmen, Bridget, Tibby and Lena to university and observe how they are adjusting to being apart from each other.
It's just the typical way that you sometimes forget how to start friendships when you're friends were always the same people.In this book I also developed a little hatred for Bridget, for not giving a shit if someone is taken or married.
You need two to tango and just because you are not in any committed relationships (or is she?) doesn't mean you can just freely hook up with anyone.Another bad feeling developed for Tibby as well.
This installment was heartbreaking and poignant. I found myself tearing up at many parts, I am unsure if this is because I knew the young lives of the sisterhood were transitioning over to adulthood or if their problems were too relatable. I loved this one because it contains things that almost every young woman must go through and although the book doesn’t offer any shiny panacea to young women problems, it does offer contentedness with things and the way life goes. I think the fourth summer ended exactly the way it should have.
Out of all four of these books, this one is my least favorite, mostly because of the lack of interaction between the main characters. Some of the characters were rather annoying throughout the book, but I do like the ending.
Just like the pants find their way into the girls’ lives, it feels like these books have found their way back into mine.
Lena is still pining for Kostos, but finds a new interest in Leo. And finally, Bridget plays with a dangerous relationship while she's on a dig abroad.The characters really plummeted in this book.
Lena as I finally figured out, is just boring.
I could never figure out why I wasn't attracted to her character in the previous books and it just kind of hit me with this one.
Actually a lot was recycled among the girls for this book.This book just wasn't as charming as the others and I'm kind of glad it is the end because I don't think I'd go on.
It felt like book #3 didn't even happen at all and the girls learnt nothing from past experiences.
Why did Lena continue obsessing about Kostos in this book?
Bee totally solidified herself as an out-of-sight out-of-mind kind of girl and I didn't like how we got a repeat of her reckless behaviour.
Everyone has issues but these girls just had WAY TOO MUCH drama and angst in their lives.
They were seriously never happy.I'm glad there is another book and I'm holding out hope that it will allow me to leave the series on a better note.
this book I think almost took me a year to read..
This installment of the Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants started out a little slow for me..
Then the book I thought picked up in an awesome way.
I was very happy with the second half of the book, it embodied all of the reasons why I love the Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series...
I probably would of been more emotional if I didn't have Sisterhood Everlasting to pick up next.
In conclusion I think the sisters have always said it best, Pants = Love.
Wasn't as good as the other ones
While as a whole, perhaps, the book wasn't stunning, it really has some memorable scenes.
I absolutely love when Bee goes home and fixes up her family and they cook together.
And the depth of Tibby's emotions for and after she breaks up with Brian and after she breaks up with him are a literary achievement in themselves.
But I wasn't entirely happy with several of the characters resolving their emotional insecurities by losing their virginity.
But what she did with Lena makes absolutely no sense, and I don't think she was willing to go into that any further because there was no reason to it...
This book was alright, but it could have been so much better.
A lot of the things we had actually already been through in previous books, so I was underwhelmed.
This book dealt with a lot, but it didn't really give conclusions to anything.
I did like all of the storylines at times, but they weren't as coherent as in the earlier books.
I don't think I will pick up the last book, but this was just OK and a nice finish for me, I don't think I need the last one.
Man this one put me through the ringer.Can't believe it took me till book 4, to realise each prologue is written by a different girl. This book was left the the lively Bridget.For this one I think the theme is love. Family, each other, parteners and themselves.I had a bit of trouble with Tibbys view of Brian, she seemed to keep changing her mind set on whether he was pressuring her for sex or not. I'm not sure if it was Tibbys thinking, or confusing writing.Personally this one hits home a lot more as they're catching up to my age.
I listened to this on audio. This was my least favorite of the 4 books. Please note that there is mature content in this book (sexual content). The author continues with the quotes that aren't even related to the story at each chapter and the changing of POV's without warning continues to be an issue confusing the reader.
