https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/906595.Eagle_in_the_Sky
This was my first Wilbur Smith book, I think way back in high school. He makes everything he writes so beautiful and personal. I'd love to see this as a movie if someone wouldn't ruin it.
Well this was soppier than expected. But hell I can sop with the best of them and this was still a thrilling enough ride. It just wouldn't be summer without a visit to Smith's Africa.
Eagle in the Sky was my first Wilbur Smith book and it was one of the few instances where I couldn’t put it down.
This wide-reaching, action-packed novel covers plenty of ground in its story of an Israeli fighter pilot who suffers a terrible accident and the girlfriend who sticks with him through thick and thin.
The first half of the book takes place mainly in Israel and offers an accurate portrayal of the country’s political turmoil before Smith moves to a more favoured setting, Africa, for the second half.
Well, I can tell that the person who wrote this story is a man. The writing and telling of the story has a strong masculine scent, but in the end I did like the book. It is an almost unbelievable plot, but it is also unpredictable and that is a feat!

I had never read Wilbur Smith before.
For those of you who bow to this book and say you've never read a better one?
That it changed your life- did we read the same book?
Perhaps this novel was amazing when it came out in the 70's (as there really wasn't much else to read, sorry guys) but reading it today feels like a combination of Grey's Anatomy and some lame B action movie.
I did enjoy the settings- Jabulani sounded absolutely wonderful, and the descriptions of Israel actually left me wishing I could take a trip there and see it myself.

This story is one that sees a spoilt rich kid that has it all.
The story brings into focus the differences that exist between the people that inhabit this biblical land.
It well expresses the drives, pain and hurt that can come as a result of conflict.
It also shows the love and increasing dependence the two lead characters have for each other where they finally find peace on a large property that supports the native fauna and flora within the African continent.
I think it's a love story, a story of devotion, trust, loyalty and determination.
I think the author wrote this story with much passion.
This was the first Wilbur Smith book that I ever read, and even now after having read many of his pieces, I keep re-reading this one. There is something special about it. What spoke to me, I guess, was the perfect love-story that really was not that perfect after all - but so beautiful! And Smith's environmental descriptions, especially those described from up in the sky (from a pilot's perspective). I am astonished. One of my favourite books.
It’s a constant alteration between a high and a low and you’re always left with this fear of what’s going to go wrong now while reading, oh man.I don’t want to put out much because I went into it only knowing that David meets Debra and something happened, and I loved not knowing where the story’s going to go next .
While I didn't enjoy this quite as much as the other Wilbur Smith books I've read recently (I wonder if I've over done it a little...) it was still a good gripping read with lots of action and plenty of twists and turns.
The portrayal of the Israeli turmoil was detailed and insightful and of course it wouldn't be a Wilbur Smith book with a good proportion set in Africa.
I did find the characters slightly flat, particularly the female characters although as ever this could be more due to when it was written and set than anything, I'd still like to see them with a bit more clout though.
Overall a pretty good read.
This book is what gave me my love of reading.
One of best books I ever read, will stay in my memory forever. Been over 30 years so far.....
This was my introduction to Wilbur Smith and I read it in one sitting. Such a vivid description of the place, the characters and the conflicts
This was a very touching and moving story of a pilot that crashed and became blind and how he handled it, how he fell in love.
Love in the time of violence :)
still to this day one of the best books I've ever read!
But being a Wilbur Smith book it doesn't go smoothly at all.
The only downer is that the story ends with so much more of David's life to live that you just wish it continued.The first part of the book is partly set in Israel with David joining the Israeli Air Force.
Therefore the topical nature of the book (at time of writing) makes it an excellent book to read.There are only a few criticisms I've had of Wilbur Smith books in the past like too much technical detail or rushed endings but they are not evident here.5 stars.
A beautiful and rich man from South Africa, very rich, fascinated by flying and trained as a fighter pilot falls in love with a beautiful Israeli girl and migrates to Israel and commences work as a Mirage fighter pilot for the Israeli Air force.
The blind girl goes on believing his appearance has not changed, eventually gets a surgery and gets her eyesight back and screams on her first sight of the man who runs away and takes to the skies and is eventually brought down by his father in law to live happily ever after with his bride.The story may sound run of the mill but the author packs so much of adventure into the novel that it becomes irresistibly great.
Eagle in the Sky by Wilbur Smith...
The catchy prelude is the quote of Proverbs 30; 18-20 " Three things are too wonderful for me, four I do not understand,The way of an eagle in the sky,The way of a serpent on a rock,The way of a ship on the high seas,AND THE WAY OF A MAN WITH A MAIDEN."This is the gist of the entire plot, the storyline starts with David ditching his family fortune to pursue his vagabond lifestyle with a career in the air force.
Is it the Eagle with the Maiden or the Man in the sky....
This was my favorite book in my teens and early 20's. Eagle in the Sky is part love story, part action-adventure tale, part historical drama. It tells the story of the too-beautiful-for-words, spoiled playboy who finds love and purpose with a mysterious, self-sufficient Israeli woman. When tragedy strikes, they are torn apart and suffer horribly, emotionally and physically. The narrative moves thrillingly from a bull fight in Spain, to fighter jets defending Israel, to a new home in South Africa. The pace never lets up, but ultimately it is the unforgettable love story that makes such a huge impression.
Smith tells a tale of god-like David Morgan and goddess-like Debra--both too beautiful to believe.
Morgan was not only handsome but heir of fabulously wealthy dynasty in South Africa.
He lived a wild life with women and flying.
Dissatisfied he gravitated to Israel where he became one of their aces and met the gorgeous Debra, Jewish daughter of stern stuff, the Brig.
Then tragedy strikes them both.
Will their love survive terrible disfigurement and blindness?
Can they find joy in carving a paradise out of one of Morgan's wild African estates.
Not my favourite wilbur smith book!
Took me over a month to read it and it's only 300 pages!
I liked the book don't get me wrong but I feel like I read 2 separate books, smith should have written a book about Israel and then a book about Africa because I found myself wanting to know more about each of them!
The ending upset me too, I wanted to know what it was like for Debra when she regained her sight and how she found going back home!
Really wish smith hadn't ended the book where he did!
I was encouraged to read this novel after finishing "A Falcon Flies". Wilbur Smith has an unique eloquent style of prose which I very much liked. His vivid descriptions of Isreali landscape and the deep charecterisation draws you into it. It hasn't got the binding spell of a mystery novel but rather mellows out evenly so you can read it without much of suspense. Overall I felt that the plot could have been more enriched.
Wow, I really enjoyed this one! Found it on a sale rack in the library, paid .50. Published in 1975, I thought it might be out of date, boy, was I wrong. The perfect blend of techno speak, romance and locale. I actually took some notes in the margins and looked a lot of things up on Google. Totally satisfied!I heartily recommend this one!
It is hard to say much about this book without giving away details that you have to read yourself in order to understand the characters. This a typical fast-moving, intense, sometimes gruesomely bloody but always thrilling Wilbur Smith novel. It is emotional: Smith will take you from shock to awe andleave you in tears. Please read it.
One of the best books I've read.
One of the best stories I've ever read!!!
If you want to experience patriotism of Israel, wilderness of Africa and glimpses of Europe. And want to live through beautiful and ugly face of life. This book will take you through all of them.
I read this for our book club. Although it was a well written book it didn't enthrall me. I wouldn't choose to read another one by Wilbur Smith.
