https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/459744.Adventures_in_the_Screen_Trade
Two-time Academy Award-winning screenwriter and the bestselling author of Marathon Man, Tinsel, Boys and Girls Together, and other novels, Goldman now takes you into Hollywood's inner sanctums...on and behind the scenes for Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, All the President's Men, and other films...into the plush offices of Hollywood producers...into the working lives of acting greats such as Redford, Olivier, Newman, and Hoffman...and into his own professional experiences and creative thought processes in the crafting of screenplays.
dishy, delicious, and—shockingly—very, very useful.a couple years back i thought i'd move to hollywood and write movies for a living.i love movies.i write good.what could go wrong?everything. everything could go wrong.because being a screenwriter is exactly like john august describes—except with a simply staggering amount of asslicking and a dash of despair he's too genteel to mention.the stories, people... the stories. actors are appalling people—and so are studio execs.recommended.
Nobody Knows Anything.Goldman could almost have saved us the 400-pages of what is still one of the most insightful books about the movie-industry, and just printed his Law on a single page at the front.But then we'd have missed a glorious roller-coaster ride through Tinseltown stuffed to the gills with anecdotes of such toe-curling detail that you believe every word. And even now, 25 years later, it still all rings true. Read it, and you too might understand how lucky we are to get the occasional "great" movie. Because it's quite simple:Nobody Knows Anything.
He's so irritating, in fact, that after a two-week break away from Adventures in the Screen Trade I cashed in with over 100 pages left, because I couldn't stand the thought of going back to have him bitch at me like my worst film school instructors used to, bitter that a lack of work forced them into talking about their job instead of doing it.Goldman launches his first fart rocket within the opening 20 pages, tattling four anecdotes to illustrate that movie stars are bad people.
We've been listening to As You Wish: Inconceivable Tales from the Making of The Princess Bride and it got me thinking that I hadn't read this book in many years, though I loved it the first time.
Goldman's insider's approach is still compelling, though I wondered how much of what he says about how Hollywood works is still true 36 years later.
The only thing that would make this book better, in my opinion, is if he'd written it five years later--so he could discuss The Princess Bride.
What better way to honour the great man's memory than by reading this book?As a successful screenwriter and novelist, William Goldman was perfectly placed to write one of the definitive insider accounts of Hollywood.
Adventures in the Screen Trade is a sparkling memoir and every bit as entertaining as some of the landmark films he helped create (including Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, All the President's Men, and Marathon Man).A great mix of gossip, advice, and insight, Adventures in the Screen Trade remains a complete delight for cineastes - and a valuable trove of advice for anyone hoping to make a career as a screenwriter.4/5
This is perhaps the best book about screenwriting and the film business ever written.Oscar winner William Goldman, who wrote such classic films as HARPER, BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID, MARATHON MAN and ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN shares his unique, often difficult, experiences working with top directors, producers and stars like Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Dustin Hoffman and Laurence Olivier.If survival in the Hollywood film industry is possible, then there is no better "survival guide" than this book, because Goldman tells it like it is.
He pulls no punches.According to Goldman, the single most important fact in the movie industry is that "Nobody Knows Anything".Most of the book's second-half is a primer on how to write a successful screenplay.What does Goldman feel is the most important lesson to be learned about writing for films?1.
William Goldman is incredible. Prolifically incredible. In several genres. I read this book on 3-18-97 straight through. I know I did because I wrote this quotation:"Nobody knows anything.Again, for emphasis...Nobody knows anything."
This is a true insider's look at the screenwriting business (from the writer of All the President's Men, Marathon Man and – interestingly, the novel of Princess Bride) and interesting for anyone who writes or likes movies because - yes, there are fun gossipy asides about Hollywood (Robert Redford had ego!), but it's focus is on what makes a good story and how to write one that sells as a screenplay.
They give fascinating and practical insights into what they think of this screenplay and what makes a movie work in general, sometimes contradicting one another.
One thing is clear from the beginning - Bill loves the movies.
This is a gentle book; world weary, with a big heart.
After detailing the vast amount of work it takes to bring a script all the way to the big screen, it's no wonder Goldman gets so angry at the Auteur theory.
My only gripe about an otherwise insightful book is that the author is very hard on schlock horror b movies - a staple of my life for as long as I care to remember.
I enjoyed this book.William Goldman is the Hollywood screenwriter who wrote "The Princess Bride".
Screenwriting is not an easy profession because it's filled with all kinds of frustrations and set-backs.ADDENDUM - 2/27/16:PS-The title of this book is a PUN on the title: "Adventures in the Skin Trade, a collection of stories by Dylan Thomas.PPS-More about William Goldman from WIKI:===================================="WILLIAM GOLDMAN (born 1931) is an American novelist, playwright, and screenwriter.
His other notable works include his thriller novel Marathon Man (first published 1974) and comedy-fantasy novel, The Princess Bride (first published 1973), both of which Goldman adapted for film."Goldman also wrote a series of memoirs about his professional life on Broadway and in Hollywood.
That's the image that came to mind as I finished this funny, authentic look at the movie business by a celebrated screenwriter (and novelist).
Bill Goldman is painfully frank about his struggles, his weaknesses, and the seamy underbelly of the business that has paid his bills for decades.
The last section of the book is a particularly helpful exercise where he takes one of his short stories, wrestles it into a screenplay, and then interviews a cinematographer, a production designer, an editor, a composer and a director about what they would do with his finished product.
Anyone who has ambition to pursue a career in the movie industry (especially writers) should do themselves a favor and pick up this book.
What impressed me most while reading, beyond Goldman's frank and brutally honest discussion of Hollywood, was how relevant so much if it seems to the business today.
Written almost forty years ago, so many of the trials and tribulations Goldman describes, as well as his larger concerns about the where the business is heading, feel like they could have been written yesterday.
It was true 40 years ago.
Goldman's credits are legendary, two Oscars, for the screenplays in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid and All the President's Men, and many many more.
Goldman starts by telling readers that Nobody Knows Anything in Hollywood, by which he means that the movie business is extremely hard to predict, marked by frequent failures and occasional big hits.
Goldman has many funny stories to tell about Hollywood insiders and a lot of the silliness that is present in the industry.
He illustrates his advice by including the entire screenplay for Butch Cassidy, then analyzing its strengths and faults.
It was an entertaining book, but it didn't know what it wanted to be. A primer on how to hustle as a screenwriter? Amusing anecdotes about the movies he's worked on? A script workshop for tourists and beginners?Yes all of these. Good, but not great. It could have been split and expanded into two better books, imho. For fans of Goldman: He's a good writer and an entertaining read.
The book was enlightening and entertaining, but not quite what I expected. William Goldman was a successful screenwriter in the Hollywood Hey Day. Many of his observations are outdated. Hollywood is a different ballgame now. No one is secure, spoiled self-indulgence is out. Still, he makes it clear, it's all about creating great characters that actors want to play, and audiences are still hungry for.
Many people view screenwriters as a necessary evil because, as Mr. Goldman says, many screenwriters are not actually that good at screenwriting....BUT he also says that NOBODY KNOWS ANYTHING.
Because then it is most definitely out of their hands.Of the whole book, while the first two sections of it detail Mr. Goldman's experiences, the last part may be the most inspiring to aspiring screenwriters, like myself.
This last section discusses a short story that Mr. Goldman had written many eons ago, which he found again, which inspired him to write a short screenplay based on it.
He spends equal time analyzing the filmmaking process as a whole, talking about the craft of writing (his points apply well to writers of prose for the most part, only occassionally going into things that are unique to screenwriting) and discussing several important films he's worked on in detail.
The processes he goes through are great to see, and very helpful for aspiring writers out there.If you're a writer, you should definitely have this on your shelf, but even if you're not into writing, this is a great and hilariously entertaining look at Hollywood and the film industry as a whole, and worth a read for any movie fans out there.
Well, in this book Goldman also laments how the industry is going down the toilet, how they are making fewer and fewer movies, and so on...
Still he's an engaging storyteller no matter what the topic and he's not too precious about the craft, which is also awfully important to keep in mind for aspiring writers.
If there's any profession where some perspective is required on your importance to the engine that pays you, it's screenwriting.
Goldman has that perspective.
One that is the Butch Cassidy screenplay and one that is an actual effort to adapt a short story to a screenplay and then get it critiqued by film folks.Goldman wrote Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Marathon Man, All the Presidents Men, etc.
These are very direct criticisms and good examples of how the writer and other do and don't see the same thing in a screenplay.Goldman is clearly human.
There is no doubt that he is a great writer...as evident not only in the book he has written, yet also in the BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID screenplay that comes with the book, as well as an excellent short story called "Da Vinci."If there is a fault, I would say that at times Goldman could be a bit vague about some of his Hollywood experiences.
That said, I am very pleased to have read ADVENTURES IN THE SCREEN TRADE...as I feel I got a lot out of the book, and enjoyed my time exploring William Goldman's films.
If you're a first time screenwriter or you're looking for tips on how to format a screenplay: don't read this.
Well, the dude was a novelist at the time and was hired to write a script, so he wasn't really in need of getting his foot in the door.
So please, read something that has been nominated for an Oscar instead, those are all readily available online.With that said, this book has provided tons of great insight on what it's like to work in the industry.
See what it's really like to work as a screenwriter before you get into it.

Wasn't sure what this was before I started reading it but I quickly remembered the buzz from its original release (early 80s), notably his (now famous) quote about Hollywood: 'Nobody Knows Anything' - which is directed to executives particularly, but everyone in the business generally.
And if you've seen an M.
Night Shyamalan movie recently, you'd probably find it hard to refute that this is still the case in Hollywood.
Like The Princess Bride, I read this book, just to say hello, inbetween others.
I first read William Goldman as part of an Intro to Screenwriting class in college.
This was his first book that we read.
I love it all in here, not only because I spent the first part of my life wanting to work in film, and the second part in the creative nuts and bolts of advertising, but because of his style.
Man has style - like a good talker, a funny guy, the type of person you invite out to the bar, Goldman tells his tale.
Love this book, recommend highly!
I love this book, it is a well written "insiders" view of Hollywood.
The author not only tells stories, but he names names.
Most of his stories let you know just who blew the movie or caused horrendous budget overages by their rotten behavior.
He is just telling the story.
And he does an excellent job just telling the stories.
The book is well written, and extremely enjoyable even for someone like me who is not an aspiring screenwritter.
And yes, it was written 30 years ago, but that's OK.
Even if you aren't interested in making it in the movie business.
Thoroughly enjoyable, packed with insight and great stories about working in Hollywood.
It's interesting to read it and think about what's changed and what's stayed the same about the movie business in the 30-odd years since it was written.
Quite a lot, it turns out, in regards to both.
There are some things about Goldman's perspective I didn't like (he's quite casually sexist), but he never pretends this book is anything but his 'personal view', so you have to take him as he is.
Overall, it's pretty essential reading for anyone who wants to write movies, and highly recommended for anyone else who's curious about how the system works.
I've wanted to read William Goldman's account of what it has been like as a screenwriter [Butch Cassidy & the Sundance Kid, All the President's Men, Marathan Man] for Goldman and it didn't disappoint.
In fact, what makes this such a delight is the fact that Goldman is surprisingly blunt with his opinions regarding individuals he's worked with on these films.
The book isn't gossippy, it's just matter of fact as Goldman talks about his opinions on what it was like to work on the films.
Lots of insider information and stories of the films that really made me see some great movies in a new light.
Recommended for film fans!

Though published in 1982, the majority of this book by the writer of "Butch Cassidy" and the "Princess Bride" is still relevant today.
And while minor details, like the film budgets and the stars at the time, are dated, the Hollywood machine hasn't changed much.
Goldman teaches you what it means to write a screenplay whole describing the back stories behind some of the best moments put on camera, and he does it with beguiling humor and ascetic wit.
You won't want to put this book down, but when you're finally forced to, you'll want to boot up Final Draft and type "FADE IN..."
