https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7743175-a-memory-of-light
I have spent two thirds of my entire life wishing that this series would never end, but at the same time, dying to read its conclusion.
This book is all battles, characters dying heroic deaths, doing things that are ridiculously awesome, and generally blowing up just about everything.
But, the thing is, "The Wheel of Time" has earned this ending.
It is one of the most satisfying endings to anything that I have ever had the pleasure to witness, and I thank God that I ever picked up the first book all those years ago for it."A Memory of Light".
This is one of the only books series I’ve read where I’ve spent 80% of the time in various states of dissatisfaction with most of the characters for some reason or another but still liked the overall story.
There are a few slower books that ooze of worldbuilding, political maneuvering and characters but no serious plot movement and then there are the final 4 books of the series that are amazing and it feels like everything happened in.There are things I loved in this series and things I really hated but overall I enjoyed the journey I went on.
I'm sure I'll have to blog about the immensity of this series, and what it's meant to me, once I'm done, but for now, I just wanted to give a quick, spoiler-free update: this book is essentially a 900 page battle sequence involving dozens of characters, and spanning an entire world.I have two main reactions to this (though I'm only halfway through).
The first is courtesy of 11-year-old me reaching through time and space to say: HOLY SHIT, THIS IS FUCKING AWESOME.
I'm so very glad that I was able to use work as a means to extend the reading experience beyond one burned-out marathon.
Why I believe 2012 is actually the end...I'll apologize up front, this may be a little insensitive, but it's all in the name of entertainment so that makes everything okay.
I never put much weight on it until recently.You know what, I believe it all now.Here's why, and it has to do with The Wheel of Time.
I don't think that's meant to happen.First, The Wheel of Time has been delayed over and over again.
The SFF community lost two of its greats and both connected to this series.An ending to The Wheel of Time is not meant to be.
The Last Battle looms above all, and the Dragon Reborn prepares to face the full strength of Shai’tan and defeat the Shadow one last time…I must admit something that might come as a shock to most of you: When I finished A Memory of Light, it was probably my least favourite Wheel of Time book.
And the epilogue, the only chapter in the book to be written single-handedly by Robert Jordan, is the crowning glory of A Memory of Light and one of the best chapters in the whole series.
The final Wheel of Time book is a superb ending to a series that, without a doubt, is one of the greatest written accomplishments in the genre.
Thank you, Mr Jordan.The wind rose high and free, to soar in an open sky with no clouds.
A landscape covered, at the same time, with celebrations.
It tickled the branches of trees that had finally begun to put forth buds.The wind blew southward, through knotted forests, over shimmering plains and toward lands unexplored.
This wind, it was not the ending.
There are no endings, and never will be endings, to the turning of the Wheel of Time.But it was an ending.
That said, I was not delighted by the way a small number of key story arcs were concluded and that has left me with a tiny feeling of dissatisfaction with the conclusion to the Wheel of Time series.
Few series have the depth and level of world building of Jordan's fantastic and truly epic Wheel of Time.
The conclusion was final enough to work as a good ending but this world definitely had a lot more stories that were worth telling.
Despite a few issues with the conclusion I do still think this is a book well worth a 5 star rating.
I was criticized for giving this five stars before it came out :) Which I suppose I can understand since it slightly affects the average score.Well, I've read it now and Sanderson did not disappoint.
The bottom line is that while it has some low points (Crossroads of Twilight), even those have some pretty neat moments.
I always cheered when I heard the book count was going UP, because I loved immersing myself in Robert Jordan's world.When Sanderson picks up the reigns in The Gathering Storm, the pace picks up dramatically and the more tiresome subplots are wrapped up very quickly.
Detailed breakdown of feelings to follow. I'm going to need a couple of days to sort myself out.20 minutes later I'm still crying.
Of course, his death was crushing and I knew it would be the end of the “typical WoT book.” I was pleasantly surprised with Sanderson’s first two books—even with the ABSOLUTE murder of Mat’s character—and I was incredibly eager to read the final chapter.
The WoT books are absolutely teeming with secondary characters, and they are one of my favorite parts of Jordan’s writing.
And as someone who fell in love with all of the characters of WoT, I feel like I deserved more from their final story.
On TaimandredDemandred: (view spoiler)[What a waste.Okay, yes, Shara was Chekov's Gun. I don't necessarily have a problem with them showing up to fight in the Last Battle, because we knew they were out there, but we had such sketchy knowledge of them that all the scenes with them feel like they happened BECAUSE PLOT rather than because of any buildup earlier in the series.I mean, Bao the Wyld?
Getting the Aiel to follow Rand took multiple books of set up and still ended up with some rough spots, but we're supposed to accept Demandred at the head of the Sharans fighting for the Shadow in the span of a few pages.
No matter how long this series took to come to an end I have loved it since the first book when I picked it up in 1996.
I loved the details in the books, and have never really found another author who could write like Mr. Jordan, although Mr. Sanderson is doing an exceptional job.
As I reached the end of the book, something inside of me changed and all I have to say is WOW!!!
Oh I must not forget Logain, he came a long way during the series and at the end my heart felt for him.
Mat Cauthon, better known as light of my life, was cheeky and charismatic fox who became the biggest general since the Age of Legends.
He defeated one Forsaken even Rand couldn't take down.Egwene al'Vere, queen of my heart, my favourite female character ever, brave lioness with iron spine, the righteous leader.
He's my favourite male character after Mat and Rand, and it's so hard to love him since he makes one fatal mistake after another.
I also didn't like how she tried to keep Perrin away from Rand and Mat as much as possible.
Yes, but I need to mention that nothing can live up to the huge buildup of the series, but this novel comes pretty darn close.I used to complain about the way Brandon Sanderson handled the series in the previous two books, but this time I really do not have anything to complain about.
In terms of epicness it beats the crap out of everything I read, which made me wish to see how Robert Jordan would handle this as big battles was one of his strengths (Dumai's Wells come to mind).
I criticized Brandon Sanderson a lot for his handling of the series.
Rating: 6/10A Memory of Light is quite a good read and leaves me reasonably satisfied at the conclusion of an epic 14-book fantasy series that I have been reading for nearly 20 years.I know that "quite a good read" and "reasonably satisfied" sound like damning with faint praise, so let me clarify that I think Brandon Sanderson has done an amazing job with his contributions to the Wheel of Time series - it was a huge ask to pull that entire thing together even in 3 books and he's done a super job for the fans.
I think I need to sleep a bit on my thoughts and what I want to write as my full and final review so I'll probably come back to this tomorrow and add my actual 'review' but my Initial Thoughts are that it was a fairly perfect ending of course :)* Actual Review *Okay so I've now had a few days to process all of the thoughts I had surrounding this book and I have decided that this is certainly my favourite book from the whole Wheel of Time series.
This was a somber journey, as I knew with every passing page that I was finishing a 23-year adventure unlike any other.Many will speak of the differences of style between Jordan and Sanderson, and even though the narrative inconsistencies in diction are more prevalent in areas than others, I still found myself amazed that Sanderson was able to take thousands of pages of material, with over dozens of distinct characters and plotlines, and masterfully bring to close Jordan's legendary tale while maintaining an overall sense of familiarity.That there is some ambiguity in the final chapters is fitting, I find on reflection, because life itself rarely finds closure in all concerns.++Spoilers++"A Memory of Light" is an exhausting read, not so much due to length, which is considerable nonetheless (weighing in at over 900 pages, it's a massive tome), but because you are witnessing multiple battlefronts towards the beginning of the story, which later converge into the Last Battle; Sanderson relishes writing these scenes, and is quite adept with his descriptions of what is happening, allowing you to easily visualize the larger context.
I've read this series back in the days when I wasn't inclined to write reviews, which I found take practice and inspiration.
Then there are those that I've decided to skip entirely (i.e Book 8 to 11 before picking up from The Gathering Storm) thereby relying on Tor.com's reread thread to keep myself abreast of developments, which was not very much except for a very significant event at the climax of Winter's Heart.
It was with a heavy heart that I've read the final few pages of this enormous series and finally call this journey done.
And since this is the last book some are for the entire series.I was right!(view spoiler)[ Taim and Demandred were not the same person!
(hide spoiler)]Lan finnaly started acting like he has a head on his shoulders.
There was a moment when his POV broke my heart (view spoiler)[when he was thinking about how much he loves his siblings and that Elayne had never returned the affection.
(hide spoiler)]The battle between Rand and the Dark One. I can't describe the feelings it evoked.
(view spoiler)[Which made her death all the more powerful because I had just started to root for her again.
(view spoiler)[ I loved that Rand survived.
AND for those of you like me who mourn the excessive verbiage and repetitive story telling that turned one of the potentially best fantasy series of all time into an overblown soap-opera...it's all here also.As I started...and for a long time after I started this book I was sure that the highest rating I'd be able to give it would be a 3 and that it possibly could force me into a 2.
(hide spoiler)]I do still wish that the family would take the entire series and turn it over to a great editor (or a group of great editors) and cut out all the "waffle" from every volume.
FUCK. IT'S OVER.AND I'M SPEECHLESS.I'll go cry in a corner now.
Executive Summary: How do you end a book series that has spanned 15 volumes (including the prequel), nearly 12,000 pages and over 4 million words, where the author died before finishing? Quite well in my opinion. I loved this book start to finish, and feel rewarded for sticking with it through some of the middle books.Audiobook: Michael Kramer and Kate Reading are fantastic again. They've made my reread quite enjoyable. Full Review The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memorie
But it was a beginning.It's hard to review the final book of a series, especially one as long and as old as as the Wheel of Time without including some personal history and talking about the series as a whole.
I wanted to know what would become of them, my friends.I read this book far faster than I would have when I started this journey maybe 4 years ago, and a large part of that is thanks to this series.Endings are always a tough thing.
I'm sad to say goodbye to these characters and if I'm honest I'm a little disappointed we didn't get an epilogue to show how our favourites are doing a few years down the line but I think we were given just enough that we can use our imagination for the rest.I'm sad that Robert Jordan didn't get the chance to finish his epic masterpiece but I'm thankful that Brandon Sanderson was able to do such a brilliant job of the final few books and I'm glad fans weren't left with a million unanswered questions._________________Buddy read with Buddies, Books & Baubles starting 1st February 2017(I actually put of starting this for so long that I missed the group read entirely LOL)
I'm still not sure how many of those stars are for sheer nostalgia - at least one?
- but this was a hell of a wrap up for a 12 year journey.
I started reading these books when I was 13, I am 25 now, and I can say there were times when I didn't see this ever ending.
Through its ups (books 1-6), its downs (8-11), its not-bad-but-could-be-better (7, 12) this has remained a big force in my fantasy reading.
Forgive me for this pun, but there will be a void where The Wheel of Time once stood.
I feel... many things. I wasn't sure I'd get to read the end of a tale this long. There were setbacks—Jordan passing, and troubles in my own life—but I did. I made it, and so did this story.I feel satisfaction. I feel weariness. I feel... gratitude.So much gratitude.Thank you, Mr. Jordan. Thank you, Mr. Sanderson.Thank you for 20 years of wonder. Of joy. Of humor. Of hope.Thank you.
A journey of more than three million words ends. Too overwhelmed to say anything.
two critical character behave in ways that are simply not credible at this point; their opposition to Rand is a misguided attempt to ratchet up the conflict and heighten suspense, but by doing it with people that have been shown to be both intelligent and generally wise makes the whole thing ring hollow.
Closing out a series that's been going on for 23 years over this many books in a way that even a majority of the readers will find emotionally satisfying is incredibly hard.
Who lives & who dies is one of those challenges: it's not badly done, I think, but several characters deserved a greater resolution to their story considering how much time we spent with them.
14 delova; 23 knjige; 4,410,036 reci!
Od sjaja do ocjaja i obrnuto, tako je izgledao ovaj serijal kada se na kraju sve sabere.
Da je bio nesto kraci i sazetiji u smislu da nije bilo Dzordanovih lutanja i dosadnih delova koje bih okarakterisao kao ciste filere i popunjavanje strana onda bih mogao lagano reci za ovaj serijal da je remek delo, jedan od najboljih u svetu epske fantastike.
Sto se Sandersona tice on pise visestruko bolje od Dzordana i uspeo je da vrhunske ideje pokojnog gospodina, vecna mu slava, dovede do belog usijanja i poslednje tri knjige ucini nezaboravnim.
Dzordanove ideje + Sandersonovo pisanje = SAVRSENSTVO :D
'The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend.
There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of the Wheel of Time.
A MEMORY OF LIGHT is the fourteenth and final book of The Wheel of Time.
In enjoying such devotion to their creation, the authors, Robert Jordan and Brandon Sanderson, have accrued an enormous debt that must be repaid in this final book.
So often when I read books, I wonder 'How does anyone come up with such an amazing story?' Never has that sentiment assailed me as strongly as it did while I read A MEMORY OF LIGHT.
The Wheel of Time as a series was compelling and fascinating, and to this day more intriguing to me as a fantasy epic than other novels I have read.
Yet all readers of this series know that there is no true ending to The Wheel of Time and the characters within the pattern.
In fact much of Robert Jordan's work in The Wheel of Time series is a double edged sword.
(hide spoiler)]Transformation and heroismThough The Wheel of Time series has become the whipping boy example of the 'farmboy becomes a hero' fantasy cliché I believe the story goes far beyond this cliché idea.
