https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23174274-glass-sword
I am still #teamMaven. Scroll down to the spoiler portion of my review to read my theory on his redemption arc. I'm either right or dead wrong, but my gut is telling me to there is more to Maven than meets the eye. "Mare, I am very afraid for you. Things have been done to you, things no person should suffer. You've seen horrible things, done horrible things, and they will change you. I'm so afraid for what you could be, if given the wrong chance." Enter the world of shades of gray. No character
I felt less chemistry between Mare and Cal in this book (even though I'm #teamMaven I still loved Cal in the first) and while I could be dead wrong, here is what I think: Victoria is setting us up for a Warner-esque (of Tahereh Mafi's Shatter Me) love story between Mare and Maven.
I'm sorry but I'm just not getting an epic love story for Cal & Mare, I think she is going to fall for Maven & try to save him from himself in the next two books.
And I am revealed for exactly what I am - a particularly stupid fish, moving from hook to hook, never learning my lesson. ^This is a pretty good summary of the whole book.I know some people will not like that I tried Glass Sword after being really disappointed with Red Queen, but I've had a lot of luck with sequels lately. My dislike for first books like Cinder and The Winner's Curse turned into love for the later books in the series. So I thought I'd give Aveyard a second chance.No disrespect
^This is a pretty good summary of the whole book.I know some people will not like that I tried Glass Sword after being really disappointed with Red Queen, but I've had a lot of luck with sequels lately.
Only the last few chapters contain any real action or story development - the rest of the book shows the characters going from place to place in search of those with special abilities who can help their mission.The author is too lazy to craft thought-provoking scenes and characters, only ever writing something or someone when it furthers Mare’s mission.
FREAKING AVEYARD AND HER FREAKING FINALES THAT HAVE YOUR HEAD SPINNING. WHAT THE ACTUAL. I'll be doing a full video review for this soon & I'll share the link once it's live.
JUST. I CANT. YES. This book. Bless this book!!!!! That ending. Damn. I can't even type in complete sentences after reading Glass Sword (even though I just did).....
edit 03/14/16:After long consideration I decided to not start 'Glass Sword' and quit this series instead - the reviews released so far mention the lack of the two things I was looking forward to in GS, action and Maven, and I do not see the point of picking it up, if I'll only get disappointed.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------Still rooting for Mare and Maven.
I'm declaring myself TEAM MAVEN for the rest of the series. I don't mean I'm shipping Maven with Mare. I mean I'm warship-ing Maven AGAINST Mare and all her allies. Reds, you're going down. Best,Maven and Adam (THAT is a ship I can get on board with.) P.S: Please note I do love Mare. I just love chaos more.
You are not prepared for the awesome. *cackles in glee*
Careful, there! Unavoidable spoilers from book #1. “Attend to your own fate, Mare Barrow.”“And that is?”“To rise. And rise alone.” As I sat wallowing in self-pity, speechless, angry at this cruel world, I had a revelation -- Victoria Aveyard enjoys being an evil mastermind. She enjoys making me laugh, fall in love with countless characters at the same time and then drown into an endless puddle of my own tears. And she does it with such glorious creativity that, even though my heart is breaking i
She enjoys making me laugh, fall in love with countless characters at the same time and then drown into an endless puddle of my own tears.
And for the love of gods, she tries so hard and so much in this book to keep everyone safe, to concoct moves and countermoves, to get rid of her emotional instability, to escape Maven's shadow and to change the world a little bit.
The little lightning girl is not so little anymore and I could not help but love her, because even though she loses a lot of fights with inner and outer demons, Mare always had the courage to battle for her beliefs.
Basically MockingjayAfter I finished  Red Queen , I suspected there would be a large problem with the sequel: too many characters and details. I was correct that I wouldn't remember them because the author just launches into the story here without as much as a previously on to refresh the audience with the story and cast. This works against the story from the very beginning, because unless the reader just finished the first book, it's all a very confusing game of catch up.Adding to that confusio
This works against the story from the very beginning, because unless the reader just finished the first book, it's all a very confusing game of catch up.Adding to that confusion is a weird round of c/k name games.
I mean, the author's head is obsessed with these sounds and it does the reader no favors in distinguishing these characters and places from one another.To further confuse you, Aveyard spends the first half of the book in action sequences that are also pretty chaotic and don't do much for the story.
(hide spoiler)]Look, I love the cover of this book and the first one, but there doesn't seem more to this series other than a pretty face anymore.
“If I am a sword, I am a sword made of glass, and I feel myself beginning to shatter.”   I would be more than willing to be the one who shatters you and stomps on your pieces, insufferable lightning girl!I swear I have no idea how I managed to finish Glass Sword. I'm not saying this because I found the plot slow like I read on many reviews, or because it suffered from second-book-syndrome, but because for the first time in my life I wanted to physically hurt the heroine with such a seething pa
I would be more than willing to be the one who shatters you and stomps on your pieces, insufferable lightning girl!I swear I have no idea how I managed to finish Glass Sword.
I'm not saying this because I found the plot slow like I read on many reviews, or because it suffered from second-book-syndrome, but because for the first time in my life I wanted to physically hurt the heroine with such a seething passion.
He doesn't belong anywhere, he's broken and scarred but he's still noble, he endures the mistrust and the insults and he starts to realize the awfully wrong way the world works.
It’s really hard to talk about Glass Sword without giving away spoilers but anyway the whole point of the book is to track down these New Bloods, King Maven will obviously send them to their death as they undermine his rule, after all Mare was portrayed to be Mareena Titanos, a lost Sliver girl living with Reds.
As much as I would like to blame the hype with this one, I really must blame myself, I was expecting A LOT more, Glass Sword is a good book but in order to follow Red Queen, I think it needed to be a great book and sadly it just wasn’t.Literary-ly Obsessed (Blog) | Twitter | Instagram Updates, before readingCOVER REVEAL: GLASS SWORDI LOVE IT!TITLE REVEAL: GLASS SWORDPlease tell me I'm not the only one still rooting for Cal & Mare?
YES YES YES..One of the best sequels...Not going to spoil it.. but yes!
That last sentence.Glass Sword was one of my most anticipated 2016 reads and it completely lived up to the hype, making it a fantastic sequel to Red Queen.Without giving away spoilers, Glass Sword started right in the action, basically right where Red Queen left off.
The main focus of Glass Sword is to search for and recruit others like Mare Barrow for the uprising against Silver Royalty.After reading Red Queen almost a year ago, I impatiently awaited the sequel, but I was also apprehensive.
It's like in high school when we used to smoosh our undyed hair over one eye (I wasn't allowed to dye mine) and wore two studded belts and yelled, "It's not a phase, Mum!" Mare may as well slouch around in holey jeans and black lacy shirts and fingerless gloves screaming, "Nobody understands me!" and "You're all posers!" It's like in the Grisha series (LOL, in more ways than one) where the characters seem deep but they aren't.
Cal was the most interesting part of this book for me, probably because his struggle was the only marginally authentic part of it all: he's sort of like Akiva, where he knows his past actions can't be forgiven, but that there's a grey area of whose fault they were, and that he's the product of a morally violent and prejudiced upbringing.
I just can't make up my mind about how I feel.Warning: review must be read till the ending to understand the stars...........I'm not sure what made me feel negative towards this book from the beginning.
It wasn't just the self pity, it was like she couldn't decide who she is.
So mare annoyed the living crap out of me for about 200 pages to be exact.
I think it was mostly that the book stopped revolving around mare entirely.
But I think the struggle of the begging was worth it once I got to the second half.
After a few days where I was supposed to make peace with certain things that happened in this book, I’ve come with the following conclusion:I have no idea how the fuck I’m supposed to feel about this story and I’m this close to give up on the whole thing.I’m utterly disappointed in Aveyard, to be quite honest.
And because we didn’t have that fast-pacing-we’re-going-to-die kind of thing, we got plenty of time to read all about Mare’s breakdowns, yay.On that note, the queen was killed so fucking easily I totally missed it.
Other readers are losing their shit over Mare Barrow's predicament and yet, here I am struggling to find a single fuck to give.
But no, Mare apparently has morphed overnight into superwoman extraordinaire:Some interesting things I learned about electricity in Glass Sword: -It can be used to destroy metal-it can be used to create a forcefield -It can be used to break a fall-It can be used to blast things into a million pieces-It can be used in place of duct tape for just about anything you can think ofMare is such a fucking special snowflake.
Rarely, (and I mean rarely) do I abhor a book to its very core. In an effort to give some structure to my upcoming rant, I will limit myself to the things I disliked the most: The title, the writing and (of course) how our heroine is actually a terrible, horrible person. The Title I literally  cannot  get over this title. Anything is better than a glass sword. A wooden one, a plastic one, heck...even a french bread one provides nourishment. One swing of the stupid glass thing and the sword's gon
In an effort to give some structure to my upcoming rant, I will limit myself to the things I disliked the most: The title, the writing and (of course) how our heroine is actually a terrible, horrible person.
And yet, in another three paragraphs, we are reminded just how red that dawn was and how Mare still had lightening powers.The sheer laziness of the writing  really annoyed the living daylights out of me.
How (honestly, I want to know) does no one notice that all she does is A) murder people or B) force them into her army.In short, this is a half-star book.
Oh, and while Maven is interesting as a villain, he is no Darkling (my poor poor baby).
YA GOTTA LOVE AN HONORABLE AND POWERFUL MAN IN UNIFORM.Edit:A little opinion of mine on why Maven will never be in the same category as the Darkling or Warner.
In fact, Cal, with his bloody acts and a stubborn mind on the righteousness of his philosophy, are much more Darkling-esque.
So no, I wouldn't put Maven in the same category as those like Warner or the Darkling, because that would be grossly offensive to their amazing villain story.
In the beginning, I was like "OMG, this book is going to be great!" But then, later on, I'm just kind of like "meh."Anyway, back to what I was saying.
However, in this book, you're just straight up like, what the ef???This entire time, Mare just tries to recruit a few people to build a little gang.
And..um...hello?One more question.Where's the romance?Throughout this entire book, there is nothing going on.
Mare and Cal are always like, "Oh, let's stay way from each other, I don't want any distractions." You obviously are attracted to each other, so what kind of shit are you pulling right now?
"If I am a sword, I am a sword made of glass, beginning to shatter."  This book ruined my life.I HATED it.But I LOVED it all the same.I know that people either hate or love Red Queen but I really do believe that this series is slowing becoming its own. Red Queen was far from original and I still had lots of X-Men and Hunger Game vibes while reading Glass Sword but I still enjoyed this book nonetheless and I'm really looking forward to seeing this series evolve even more as the later books come
Red Queen was far from original and I still had lots of X-Men and Hunger Game vibes while reading Glass Sword but I still enjoyed this book nonetheless and I'm really looking forward to seeing this series evolve even more as the later books come out.It took me awhile to get back into the story in the beginning because I couldn't remember certain details that happened in the last book so I strongly recommend rereading Red Queen before continuing onto Glass Sword.
I loved him a thousand times more in this book.MAVEN.
I might've missed when it happened or maybe I just got too excited but I just have one word to say about it: ANTICLIMACTIC.Now I have to wait another year.
My buddy-read consisted of us complaining about how there was no point in this book and that the main character was annoying.
Things I hated - Majority of this book is spent describing Mare and co going on field trips, trying to save people.
I need my romance fix- I really don’t want to hear the phrase “anyone can betray anyone’ ever again- X-MEN did it better Things I liked - When someone was going off on Mare which unfortunately did not happen regularly.- CalHow do you make a book about people with different awesome abilities so boring??

Glass Sword started off by fulfilling that promise.It's actually hard not to love this book because first and foremost, everything started with a BANG!
Lots of actions were already happening even at the very first pages that I found myself gripping the edge of my seat.I was particularly amazed by how Victoria Aveyard weaved the plotline of this book with so much thrill and adventure.
His character development in this book amazed me to no end!
And we all have to wait another year before the third book comes out!All in all, Glass Sword is a beautiful, satisfying, made-me-swoon-and-cry sequel.
That isn't like me at all.My issues with this book are solely around Mare...
I just didn't like her what so ever in this book, she is so self centred and seems to put herself before anyone else.
Not just that, but she always seemed to want to be right, like she doesn't listen to advice or offer support to anyone who she knows needs it.
But the fact is, I feel like it pushes you not to trust anyone in this book.
I don't know how the book continues, but I would of loved to see more of Shade.
“Anyone, anything, can betray anyone. Even your own heart.”   -In the entire book, Mare was annoying. How all the heroines I read lately are so stupid? I understand she feels betrayed for what Maven did but....but ...... She kisses Cal and then she thinks Maven....   “I miss him,” I whisper, enable to hold Cal’s gaze. “I miss who I thought he was.”   - Kilorn is in love with Mare... I knew it.. He is a nice guy but noooo... #teamCal forever <3- Shade and FarleyI wanted more of their relatio
I understand she feels betrayed for what Maven did but....but ......
She kisses Cal and then she thinks Maven....
“I miss him,” I whisper, enable to hold Cal’s gaze.
“I miss who I thought he was.” 
- Kilorn is in love with Mare...
He will pay for this!!!- P.S. I love Cal <3 He was so brave and sweet.
“If I could speak, I would tell Cal that I'm sorry, that I love him, that I need him."
Just tell him already!!- I hope Mare choose who she wants in King's Cage or I will lose my mind!!!
It doesn't take long for this story to get more complicated once they begin their missions to save the other "new bloods" and bring down the king.Although this time around Mare and Cal seemed to grow closer, there still wasn't enough romance for me.
That drove me crazy!I listened to the Audible version of this story and it continues to be well-narrated.
It wasn't as good as the first book, for me, but I still liked it.
I will continue the series when the next book is released.
9.5 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:The Spiritual Machines – Couldn't Stop CaringThat Winter, The Wind Blows – Blind LoveTyrone Wells – RemainGenre: fantasy, dystopia, YAStuff: civil war, war, superpowers, usurper, Silvers vs. RedsWOW: writing-style, relationships between charactersPOV: 1st-person, female
Boring recruiting, games with Maven, ruined love-ship with Cal, Kilorn's presence, Guards...
It's Cal and there will be enough of this fire man in Glass Sword.
The only thing I would never forgive her is Cal. One wrong word, one wrong move and I'm ready to smack this girl with a chair.
I can't tell you more without spoilers, I just wanna make you feel how I love this boy.
Maven won't be an often guest on Glass Sword's pages but he would be always there.
I didn't know I would give the book around 10 stars until the very last page.
I was not a fan.Then there was the whole recruitment process and all, and at first it was a little boring, I wanted to stop reading but then I kept going once someone told me the ending ends on a cliffhanger.
Then the ending FINALLY came and I was a little disappointed because I wanted a twist or surprise but there wasn't one.
So yes this was problematic for me to read, but on the other hand it wasn't due to the writing or the world, it was the characters themselves.
It's always hard to like a book when some characters irritate you.
